DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

263

Bartlett v. Kane.

EDWIN BARTLETT, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. GEORGE P.

KANE.

By the Tariff Act of 1842, the custom-house appraisers are directed to ascertain,
estimate and appraise, by all reasonable ways and means in their power, the true
and actual market value of goods, &c., and have power to require the production.
on oath, of all letters, accounts, or invoices relating to the same. If the inporter
shall be dissatisfied with the appraisement, he may appeal to two merchant appraisers.
Where there was an importation of Peruvian bark, and the appraisers directed a
chemical examination to be made of the quantity of quinine which it contained,
although the rule may have been inaccurate, yet it did not destroy the validity of
the appraisement.
The importer having appealed, and the appraisers having then called for copies of
letter.3, &c., the importer withdrew his appeal without complying with the requisition. The appraisement then stands good.
The appraisers having reported the value of the goods to be more than ten per cent.
above that declared in the invoice, the collector assessed an additional duty of
twenty per cent. under the eighth section of the act of 1846, (9 Stat. at Large,
43.) 'This additional duty was not entitled to be refunded, as drawback, upon reexportation.

THIs case came up by writ of error, from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Distrit of Maryland.
It was an action brought by Bartlett against Kane, who was
the collector of the port of Baltimore, for tile refunding of certain duties alleged to be illegally exacted upon the importation
of Peruvian bark.
The circumstances of the case are fully stated in the opinion
of the court.

It was argued by 31r. Brune and Mr. Brown, for the plaintiff in error, and by Ml_r. Cuishing, (Attorney-General,) for the
defendant.
The points and authorities relied upon by the counsel for the
plaintiff in error, were the following:
1st. That the true dutiable value of the goods imported by
the plaintiff in error, which were the production of Bolivia, and
exported from that country by Messrs. Pinto & Co., to whom
they belonged, was their market value in Bolivia, at the time
of their procurement by Messrs. Pirtto & Co.
2d. That if said goods are to be considered as exported from
Peru, their true dutiable value was their market value in Bolivia
at the date of their exportation from Peru; and the court below,
which seems to consider them as exported from Peru, then
erred in declaring that the law in such case fixes the duties
upon the market value at the place of exportation.
3d. That as Bolivia was not an open market in which bark
could be purchased during the continuance of the contracts
between Pinto & Co. and the Bolivian government, the cost

264

SUPREMVSE

COURT.

Bartlett v. Kane.

price to Messrs. Pinto & Co. of the said goods, under their contracts of monopoly -with the Bolivian government, must be
esteemed the market value of said good, in Bolivia, for the
purpose of fixing the dutiable value of said goods, whether considered as exports from Bolivia or Peru.
4th. That the invoice value of said goods which was declared
on the entry, and uponwhich duty was then paid by the agents
of the plaintiff in error, is clearly shown, by the evidence, not
only to have been greater than the cost price to Messrs. Pinto
& Co. under their said contracts, but was also fully equal to the
value of such goods in the markets of Peru up to the period of
their shipment from that country.
5th. That whatever may be.the rule of law establishing the
true dutiable value of said goods, their dutiable value as mentioned in the invoice, duly verified and declared on the entry,
must be deemed their true dutiable value until superseded by a
valid appraisement, fixing a different value.
6th. That the appraisement by which the dutiable value of
the said goods was raised, and the importer was subjected to
the additional duty prescribed by the eighth section of the act
of 1846, was illegal and void, and the duties thus claimed and
paid under said appraisement, were illegally exacted.
7th. That the court below erred in refusing the plaintiff's
second prayer, and in the opinion which .was given to the jury,
by which it decided as a matter of law, and without submitting
any facts to be found by the jury that said appraisement was
valid.
8th. That the non-compliance of the plaintiff in error with
the requirements of the appraisers, contained in their letter of
the 6th of October, 1849, did not make valid the illegal appraisement of his goods, previously made, and then still appealed from.
9th. That the court below erred in refasing to grant the
plaintiff's third and fourth prayers; and also in the opinion
which it gave, by which it instructed the jt!ry absolutely, and
without submitting any facts to be found by them, that the
plaintiff, by his conduct, had fixed the correctness of the said
appraisement.
10th. That the court erred in rejecting the plaintiff's fifth
prayer, and in instructing the jury that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover any part of the sum exacted by the defendant
in error, as additional duty under the eighth section of the act
of 1846, upon the goods entered by the plaintiff for warehouseing and subsequently exported.
To maintain the first seven points, having reference to the
true dutiable value of the goods, and the invalidity of the ap-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Bartlett v. Kane.

praisement by which this value was raised, the plaintiff in error
relies on the following acts of Congress: 1818, c. 79, 3 Stat. at
Large, 433, and particularly to §§ 3, 4, 5, 9, 11, 12, 15, 16 and
17; 1823, c. 21, 3 Stat. at Large, 729, §§ 4, 5, 7, 8, 13, 14, 15,
16, 18, 19, 21; 1828 c. 55, 4 Stat. at Large, 270, §§ 8, 9; 1830,
c. 147, 4 Stat. at Large, 409, §§ 1, 2, 3, 4; 1832, c. 227, 4 Stat.
at Large, 583, §§ 7, 8, 15; 1833, c. 55, 4 Stat. at Large, 629,
§ 3; 1842, c. 270, 5 Stat. at Large, 548, §§ 16, 17, 21, 22, 23,
24; 1846, c. 74, 9 Stat. at Large, 42, §§ 1, 8, 11, schedule F.
And, by way of illustration, to the act of 1851, c. 38, 9 Stat.
at Large, 629. And the Treasury Circular of the 27th of March,
1851, construing the same.
And the following authorities: Tappan v. The United States,
2 Mason, 396; Tappan v. The United States, 11 Wheat. 420
to 427; Tracy v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 94, 95; Elliot v. Swartwout, Ib. 153 -157; Marriott v. Brune, 9 Howard, 634, 635;
Greely v. Thompson, 10 Howard, 225-241; Max*ell v. Griswold, lb. 247 to 254; Reggio v. Greely, Mss. Mass. Circuit,
June, 1851; Grinnell v. Lawrence, 1 Blatchford, 348 -350.
To maintain his 8th and 9th points, the plaintiff in error refers
to 1823, c. 21, 3 Stat. at Large, 729, §§ 16, 17; 1830, c. 147, 4
Stat. at Large, 409, § 3; 1832, c. 227, 4 Stat. at Large, 583,
'§§ 7,8; 1842, c. 270, 5 Stat. at Large, 548, §§ 16,17; 1848, c. 70,
9 Stat. at Large, 237.
And to Tappan v. The United States, 2 Mason, 403; Grinnell v. Lawrence, 1 Blatchford, 350; Tucker v. Kane, Mss. Md.
Circuit; Reggio v. Greely, Mss. Mass. Circuit, June, 1851;
Watson on Arbitrations, 59 Law Library, 36; Russell on Arbitrations, 63 Ib. .151; Tracy v. Swartwout, 10 Peters 95-96;
Marriott v. Brune, 9 Howard, 634; Greely v. Thompson, 10
Howard, 229- 238.
To maintain his 10th point he refers to the acts of 1799, c. 22,
1 Stat. at Large, 627, particularly §§ 56, 75, 76, 77, 78, 80, 81,
84; 1816, c. 107, 3 Stat. at Large, 310, § 4; 1818, c. 129, 3
Stat. at Large, 467; 1823, c. 21, 3, Stat. at Large, 729, §§ 2837; 1830, c. 147, 4 Stat. at Large, 409, § 5; 1842, c. 270, 5
Stat. at Large, 548, §§ 12, 13, 15; 1846, c. 7, 9 Stat. at Large,
3, § 3; 1846, c. 84, 9 Stat. at Large, 53, §§ 1, 2; Treasury Circular of 12th June, 1847; Tremlett v. Adanis, 13 Howard, 303.
The Attorney-General contended:
The said appraisement was final and conclusive upon the
withdrawal of the appeal.
After enumerating the statutory provisions upon the subject,
he said,
From the eiactments of the statute, it is clear that the apVOL. XVI.

23

266

SUPREME

COURT.

Bartlett v. Kane.

praisement by the custom-house appraisers becomes final and
conclusive upon either of these events; by the failure of the owner,
importer, or consignee, to ask an appeal to merchant appraisers,
or by withdrawing that appeal after taken, or by refusing to
produce the letters or accounts relating to the goods imported.
The statute cannot be evaded by taking an appeal and then
withdrawing it, with notice of an intent to bring the question
of the true market value before the judicial tribunals; nor by
taking an appeal, refusing to produce the letters and accounts
required, and withdrawing the appeal under protest against the
appraisement appealed from, with notide that the appellant
means to contest the appraisement and p::esent his documents,
called for by the appraisers, before a tribunal other than the
merchant appraisers.
The statute has provided the appellate tr:.bunal to settle finally
the question of the true market value of the goods when the
importer, owner, or consignee is dissatisfied with the appraisement, by the custom-house appraisers. That final appellate tribunal is to consist of merchants, "two discreet and experienced
merchants, citizens of the United States, familiar with the character and value of the goods in question." The ingenuity of
the plaintiff cannot draw this question ad aliud examen.
The plaintiff says, " In looking more carefully to the xequisition of your appraisers of bark per St. Joseph, I find that I shall
have to have copied and translated a mass of correspondence
from January last, when it was shipped, to August, (for reference to it is made in all my letters from Pinto & Co., and Alsop
& Co.); and in order the more fully to Explain Pinto & Co.'s
mode of invoicing their bark, I shall have to present a series of
documents, commencing in 1847, with their contract with the
Bolivian government, proving its actual cost to be about $60
per quintal: all these are necessary to make out my own case,
and I am unwilling to present less than all the documents. I
do not see, however, of what use they can be at present to the
appraisers, who have already mad6 up their valuation of the
bark, and made a return to the collector. I shall therefore defer
the presentation of my documents for another tribunal, and not
lose more time in delivering the bark to the purchaser. I wish
you to inform the collector that by my instructions your appeal
is withdrawn, and that you are prepared Io pay, under protest,
whatever duties may be exacted on the bark.....
.At leisure
we can then test the question of this exaction."
In plaintiff's second letter to his agentr he says: " One reason I have for taking the course directed in my letter of this
date is, that my counsel informs me that :[can more easily get
.the bark case into court before the appeal. appraisement be re-

DECEM1BER TERM,

1853.

Bartlett v. Kane,

sorted to than afterwards. Some of our judges have held that
an appeal appraisement is final and conclusive."
The plaintiff professed not to see what use could be made of
the letters and correspondence called for.after the appraisement
by the custom-house appraisers had been reported to the collector. It would have been useful evidence before the merchant
appraisers if the plaintiff had not withdrawn his appeal rather
than to produce those letters, accounts, and correspondence.
They might have enlightened the merchant appraisers. They
might have enlightened the custom-house appraisers to amend
or correct their report to the collector, for the duties were not
then fixed and imposted. Did the plaintiff conjecture that the
merchant appraisers, to whom he had appealed, were to decide
without hearing any evidence? -That the government was debarred from introducing evidence to sustain'the appraisement
appealed from?
The pretences in the plaintiff's letter of inability to see the
use to be made of the letters and correspondence called for;
that he would "defer the presentation of the documents for
another tribunal" than the merchant appraisers, -and that he
could "more easily get the bark case into court before the appeal
appraisement be resorted to than afterwards," cannot enable the
plaintiff to evade the force and effect of the seventeenth section
of the act of 1842.
The "actual market value or wholesale price," at the time
when the article was p.urchased, in the principal markets of the
country from which the same shall have been imported into the
United States, is a question of fact, not of law.
The sixteenth and seventeenth sections of the act quoted
plainly make the ascertainment of that fact an executive function; an adminstrative, not a judicial process. The particular
executive and administrative jurisdiction and process are carefully specified in the law in a manner to exclude all other jurisdictions, and to make the ascertainment of the fact, by that particular jurisdiction, "final and conclusive."
The statute, if the owner, importer, or consignee be dissatisfied with the appraisement of the goods, has given a remedy by
an appeal, "forthwith," to merchant appraisers: Xlqressio unVius
est exclusib alterius. The express mention of the one remedy
is the exclusion of another. Co. Litt. 210; Broom's Legal Maxims, 515, 516; the King v. Cunningham, 5 East, 478, 480;
the King v. the Justices of Surrey, 2 Durnf. & E. 510; Cates
v. Knight, and same v. Mellish, 3 Durn. & E. 444.
The fact to be thus ascertained is of vital importance to the
revenue. The means given are necessary to protect the revenue
from d ninution by evasions and frauds requiring promptitude.

268

SUPREME COURT.
Bartlett v. Kane.

The Congress have intended that the fact shall be speedily
ascertained and adjusted, finally and conclusively fixed "forthwith," as quickly as may be after the master of the vessel shall
have made entry of the cargo, as it were velis levatis ; for it is
a fact preceding the computation and payment of the duties;
in its nature, purpose, and effect, an executive and administrative
business. The views and ends intended in this respect cannot
be answered by the dilatory proceedings of.the courts.
II. No drawback is recoverable of the ?enal duty of twenty
cent. in addition to the regular duty inflicted by law, and
per
paid on one hundred and twuenty-five serocns of bark atfterwards
rexported from the por of Baltumore to foreign parts.
The duty of fifteen per cent ad valorer has been refunded
upon the seroons of bark so re~xported to foreign parts.
This question as to the penal duty is so plain, as to afford
lit-tle room for argument. The twenty per cent. is a rated penalty, inflicted for an attempt to defraud the revenue by an
invoice and entry of the goods at the custom-house at an undervalue.
After the fact comnitted, the fraud detected, and the penalty
paid, the party cannot demolish the fact, wipe out the fraud,
because he has
and claim that the penalty shall be reited
found it for his interest to re~xport the merchandise to a foreign
country. By such a construction of the statute, the law would
be stripped of its sancton, and terror to ofenders.
The construction given by the Secrty ofsthe Treasury, (fr.
Walker,) in his circular of the 12th of June, 1847, to the collectors, pp.
a36,
37, is, that this is a "penr duty." . . . "This
penal duty is not a subject of drawback, and cannot be returned

on debenture :"

. . .

"such penalty is never returned on export-

ation of such goods."
On October 25, 1849, plaintiff applied to the Secretary of the

Treasury (1Mr. M'eredith) for instructions to the collector to
return "the excess of duty above that which would have accrued
on the original and true invoice of the bark," pp. 13 to 15. To
this the Secretary wrote to the collector the letter of February
14, 1850, p. 16, and to the plaintiff the lestter of same date, p. 16,
in which he instructed the collector, and nswered the plaintiff, "that the ' additional duty' imposed in all cases of undervaluation, to a certain extent, was intended, and must be considered as entirely distinct in character and object from the
regular tariff rates of duty exclusively in view wvhen the law
regulating the drawback of dutiestwas acted;
and that consequently no return of such 'additional duty' could be legally
made as debenture. It is thought proper to add, that the practice heretofore pursued, under the instructions of the department, has been uniformly governed by
views."
eohes

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

269

Bartlett v. Kane.

The views above quoted are not binding on this court. As
contemporaneous constructions of the department charged by
law with siperintending the collection of the revenue from
customs, however, they will draw forth the serious deliberations
of this court, and will be suffered to stand unless some good
cause can be found to the contrary.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This. suit was commenced by the plaintiff as consignee of
six hundred and fourteen sero6ns of Peruvian bark imported
into the port of Baltimore, and entered at the custom-house, for
3n excess of duties charged by the defendant as collector, and
:)aid under protest. Two hundred seroons of the first quality
,vere entered for consumption, and the remainder for warehousng. On the 4th of October, 1849, the appraisers of the custom-iouse reported the value of the invoice to be ten per cent., and
-nore, above the value declared by the agents of the plaintiff
0ho
made the entry, and in consequence the collector, besides
the legal duty of fifteen per cent. ad valorem, assessed an additional duty of twenty per cent. under the eighth section of the
act of 1846, 9 Stat. at Large, 43, c. 74, for undervaluation. On
the 6th of October, 1849, the plaintiff duly protested against
the appraisement, and requested that the case might be submitted to merchant appraisers, as provided by law. After notice
of the appeal, the same day, the permanent appraisers required
the plaintiff "to produce all their correspondence, letters, and
accounts, relative to the shipment, and to make a deposition
that the documents furnished were all that he had concerning
the. shipment."
In reply to this, some five days after, the plaintiff instructed
his agents that it would be tedious and difficult to comply with
the requisition, in consequence of the volume of the correspondence, says he cannot understand what use the appraisers could
make of them, as they had made their report; that he should
defer their presentation for another tribunal, and that he withdraws his appeal, and will pay the duties under protest. He
still insists upon the overvaluation, but offers to settle at that
rate, provided the additional duty is not charged. He says that
this exaction is illegal, and they can test it at their leisure.
That he had been advised that an appeal appraisement might
interfere with his rights in a court of justice.
These letters of the plaintiff were submitted to the permanent
appraisers, who replied they could make no alteration of their
gstimate, and the appeal of the plaintiff was withdrawn. The
plaintiff paid the entire duties exacted upon the appraised value
of the entire import, including those entered for consumption as
23*

SUPREME
Bartlet

COUFT.

v. Kane.

well as warehousing, and an additional duty of twenty per cent.
for undervaluation. These sums were paid under protest. A
portion of the bark was exported, and uoon this the plaintiff
became entitled to diawback, which was paid to the extent of
the regular duty, but the additional duty was not refunded.
The complaint of the plaintiff is, that the appraisers, instead
of estimating the value of the Peruvian bark, according to the
cost price in the markets of its production, under the directions
of the Secretary of the Treasury, caused a chemical analysis of
samples to be made to ascertain the quantity of sulphate of
quinine it contained, and, having ascertained its relative intrinsic
value with other imports of the same aricle, regulated its appraised value by a comparison with the cost of such imports.
The facts and the complaint were submitted to the Secretary
of the Treasury, who .replied as follows:
"It appears from the report of the United States appraisers,
dated 20th October last, that the dutiable value of the article in
question having been estimated and sustained by them in conformity with law, it was found that the appraised value exceeded,
by ten per cent. or more, the value declared in the entry, and
that an appeal from this appraisement, entered by the importer,
was subsequently withdrawn by him. Under these circumstances it necessarily follows that the original appraisement,
made by the United States appraisers, is to be taken as final
and conclusive in determining the dutiable value, and that such
value, dxceeding by ten per cent. or more the value declared in
the invoice and entry, the ' additional duty' of twenty per cent,
as provided in the eighth section of the Tariff Act of 1846, is
chargeable under the law, in addition to the regular tariff rate
of fifteen per cent. ad valorem, levied on the enhanced value of
the article in question. A supplemental question in reference
to this importation having been submitted to the department,
under date of 7th instant, namely, whether the importer is not
entitled to the return of that portion of the c additional, duty'
paid on that part of the importation withdrawn from warehouse by the importer, and exported from the United States, I
have to advise you that, upon a careful excimination of the subject, it is the opinion of the department that the 'additional
duty ' imposed in all cases of undervaluation, to a certain extent, was intended, and must be considered as entirely distinct
in character and object from the regular tariff rates of duty exclusively in view when the laws regulating the drawback of
duties were enacted; and that, consequently, no return of such
'additional duty' could be legally made as debenture. It is
thought proper to add, that the practice heretofore pursued
under the instructions of the department has been uniformly
governed by these views."

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

271

Bartlett v. Kane.

Much evidence was given at the trial to prove that the value
declared by the agents of the consignee at the time of the entry
was strictly accurate, and that the rule of valuation adopted at
the custom-house was deceptive, and injurious to the importer.
The conclusions of the Secretary of the Treasury, as before
set forth, were sustained in the Circuit Court, and form the
subject for examination in this court.
By the sixteenth section of the Tariff Act of 1842, (5 Stat. at
L. 563, c. 270,) it is prescribed to the appraisers, by all reasonable ways and means in his or their power, to ascertain, estimate,
and appraise the true and actual market value, and wholesale
price, any invoice or affidavit thereto to the contrary notwithstanding, of the said goods, wares, and merchandise, at the time
purchased, and in the principal markets of the country wherever the same shall have been imported into the United States,
with the proviso, that whenever the same shall have been imported into the United States from a country in which the
same have not been manufactured and produced, the foreign
value shall be appraised and estimated according to the current
market value, or wholesale price of similar articles at the principal markets of the country of production or manufacture at
the period of the exportation of said merchandise to the United
States. The seventeenth section of the act authorizes the appraisers to call before them, and examine upon oath the owner,
importer, consignee, or other person, "touching any matter or
thing which they may deem material in ascertaining the true
market value, c_ wholesale price of any merchandise imported
and to require the production on oath to the collector, or to any
permanent appraiser of any letters, accounts, or invoices in his
possession relating to the same, for which pirpose they are
hereby respectively authorized to administer oaths and affirmatirns; and if any person. so called shall neglect or refuse to attend, or shall decline to answer, or shall, if required, refuse to
answer in writing any interrogatories, or produce such papers,
he shall forfeit and pay to the United States the sum of one
hundred dollars; and if such person be the bwner, importer, or
consignee, the appraisement which the said appraisers .....
mrny make of the goods, wares, and merchandise, shall be final
and conclusive, any act of Congress to the contrary notwithstanding ......
"Provided that if the impbrter, owner, agent, or consignee of
any such goods shall be dissatisfied with the appraisement, and
shall have complied with the foregoing requisitions, he may
forthwith give notice to the collector, in writing, of such dissatisfaction, on the receipt of which the collector shall select two
discreet and experienced merchants, citizens of the United

272

SUPREM1E

COURT.

Bartlett v. Kane.

States, familiar with the character and value of the goods in
question, to examine and appraise the same agreeably to the
foregoing provisions; and if they shall disagree the collector
shall decide between them, aud the appraisement thus determined shall be final, and deemed and taken to be the true value
of the said goods, and the duties shall be levied thereon accordingly, any act of Congress to the contrary notwithstanding."
The plaintiff contends that the rule of appraisement by which
the dutiable value of the said goods was rased, and the-importer
was subjected to the additional duty prescribed by the eighth
section of the act of 1846, was illegal and void, and the duties
thus claimed and paid under said appraisement were illegally
exacted. It may be admitted that the rule, if strictly applied,
would iii many cases lead to erroneous results, and could not be
relied upon as a safe guide in any case, but this admission does
not establish the nullity of the appraisement. The appraisers
are appointed "with powers, by all reason.ble ways and means,
to ascertain, estimate, and appraise the true 'and actual market
value and wholesale price" of the impor:ation. The exercise
of these powers involve knowledge, judgment, and discretion.
And in the event that the result should prove unsatisfactory, a
mode of correction is provided by the act. It is a general prin.
ciple, that when power or jurisdiction is delegated to any public
officer or tribunal over a subject-matter, and its exercise is confided to his or their discretion, the acts so clone are binding and
valid as to the subject-matter. The only'questions which can
arise between an individual claiming a right under the acts
done, and the public, or any person denying their validityare
power in the officer and fraud in the party; all other questions
are settled by the decision made, or the act done by the tribunal or officer, whether executive, legislative, judicial, or special,
unless an appeal is provided for, or other revision by some appellate or supervisory tribunal is prescribed by law." United
States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691.
The interference of the courts with the performance of the
ordinary duties of the executive departments of the government
would be productive of nothing but mischief; and we are satisfied that such a power was never intended to be given to them.
Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Pet. 499.
The interposition of the courts, in the appraisement of importations, would involve the collection of the revenue in inextricable confusion and embarrassment. Every importer might
feel justified in disputing- the accuracy of the judgment of the
appraisers, and claim to make proof before a jury, months and
even years after the article has been withdrawn from the
control of the government, and when the knowledge of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

273

Bartlett v. Kane.
transaction has faded from the memories of its officers.

The
consignee, after he has been notified of the appraisement, is
authorized to appeal, and pending the appeal we can see no
reason why he may not negotiate with the officers of the customs to correct any error in their judgment. We do not perceive a reason for holding that their control of the subject is
withdrawn by the fact of the appeal. The appeal is one of the
reasonable ways and means allowed to the importer for ascertaining the true and dutiable value, paramount in its operation
to any other when actually employed, but until employed not
superseding those confided to the officers. We think, therefore, that the permanent appraisers under the sanction of the
collector, (which is to be presumed,) when informed that their
decision was contested, had the right to call for the production
of the correspondence, and that the plaintiff could not have prosecuted the appeal without a compliance with the requisition.
In this case the plaintiff neither complied with the requisition
nor prosecuted the appeal, but withdrew it, and settled the
duties on the basis of the appraisement of the permanent appraisers. After this, we think he could not dispute the exactness of the appraisement. In Rankin v. Hoyt, 4 How. 327,
being the case of a disputed appraisement, the jury found the
invoice to be correct, and it was urged that the collector could
not be justified in following the higher valuation of the appraisers. The court say "that an appraisal made in a proper
case must be followed, or the action of the appraisers would be
nugatory, and their appointment and expenses become unneces.
sary. The propriety of following it cannot, in such a case, be
impaired by the subsequent verdict of the jury, differing from
it in amount, as the verdict did not exist to guide the collector
when the duty was levied, but the appraisal did, and must
justify him, or not only the whole system of appraisement'
would become worthless, but a door be opened to a new and
numerous class of actions against collectors, entirely destitute
of equity. We say destitute of it, because, in case the importer
is dissatisfied with the valuation made by the appraisers, he is
allowed by the act of Congress, before paying the duty, an
appeal and further hearing before another tribunal."
In the case before us the plaintiff withheld the information
which might have satisfied the officers of the government, after
a legal requisition upon him. He abandoned the claim for a
hearing before "persons familiar with the character and value
of the goods in question," "discreet and experienced merchants,"
and preferred a tedious and vexatious litigation. We think, as
was said by the court in the case above cited, " he cannot
with much grace, complain afterwards that any overestimate
existed."

SUPREME

COURT.

Bartlett v. Kane.

We shall now inquire whether, upon the re6xportation of
the Peruvian bark entered for warehousing, the plaintiff was
entitled to a return of the twenty per cent. of additional duty
charged upon the portion so exported.
An examination" of the revenue laws upon the subject of
levying additional duties, in consequence oii the fact of an undervaluation by the importer, shows that they were exacted as
discouragements to fraud, and to prevent efforts by importers
to escape the legal rates of duty. In several of the acts, this
additional duty has been distributed among officers of the customs upon the same conditions as penaltieS and forfeitures. As
between the United States and the importer, and in reference
to the subject of drawback and debenture, it must still be regarded in te light of a penal duty.
The provision for the return of the duty upon a retxportation,
formed a part of the system of regulations for importation and
revenue from the earliest period of the government, and has
always been understood to establish re'fations between the
regular and honest importer and the government
It does not include, in its purview, any rethrn of the forfeitures
or amercements resulting from illegal or frudulent dealings on
the part of the importer or his agents. Those do not fall within
the regular administration of the revenue system, nor does the
government comprehend them within its ieguar estimates of
supply. They are the compensation for a violated law, and
are designed to operate as checks and resti.ints upon fraud and
injustice. A construction, which would give to the fraudllent
imnporter all the chances of gain from success, and exonerate
him from the contingencies of loss, would be a great discouragement to rectitude and fair dealing. We are satisfied that the
existing laws relating to exportations, with the benefit of drawback, do not apply to reliev6 the person who has incurred, by
an undervaluation of his import, this additional duty from the
payment of any portion of it.
Our conclusion is, there is no error in the record, and the
judgment of the Circuit Court is af nmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the Unitei States for the District of Maryland, and was argued by countsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and ad-udged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs,

