OCTOBER TERM, 1966.
Decree.

WISCONSIN

388 U. S.

ET AL. v. ILLINOIS ET AL.

No. 1, Original. Decree April 21, 1930.-Decree enlarged May 22,
1933.-Decree entered June 12, 1967.*
The Court, having reopened Nos. 1, 2 and 3, Original, and having
granted leave to file No. 11, Original, entered this decree.
Decree reported, 281 U. S. 696; decree enlarged, 289 U. S. 395.

Solicitor General Marshall for the United States.
Bronson C. La Follette, Attorney General, and William
F. Eich, Assistant Attorney General, for the State of
Wisconsin.
Douglas M. Head, Attorney General, and Raymond A.
Haik, Special Assistant Attorney General, for the State
of Minnesota.
William B. Saxbe, Attorney General, and Jay C.
Flowers for the State of Ohio.
William C. Sennett, Attorney General, and Thomas W.
Corbett, Deputy Attorney General, for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Frank J. Kelley, Attorney General, Robert A. Derengoski, Solicitor General, and Nicholas V. Olds and Esther
E. Newton, Assistant Attorneys General, for the State of
Michigan.
Louis J. Lefkowitz, Attorney General, and Randall J.
Leboeuf, Jr., Special Assistant Attorney General, for the
State of New York.
William G. Clark, Attorney General, Thomas M.
Thomas and Robert L. Stern, Special Assistant Attorneys
General, and George A. Lane for the State of Illinois
et al.
*Together with No. 2, Original, Michigan v. Illinois et al., No. 3,
Original, New York v. Illinois et al., and No. 11, Original, Illinois v.
Michigan et al.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
426
DECREE.

This Court having reopened Original cases Nos. 1, 2,
and 3, and having granted leave to file Original case
No. 11, and having referred all such cases to a Special
Master who has filed his Report, and the parties having
agreed to the form of the decree, the Findings of Fact
in the Report are hereby adopted, and it being unnecessary at this time to consider the Special Master's legal
conclusions,
IT IS ORDERED, ADJUDGED, AND DECREED that:
1. The State of Illinois and its municipalities, political subdivisions, agencies, and instrumentalities, including, among others, the cities of Chicago, Evanston,
Highland Park, Highwood and Lake Forest, the villages of Wilmette, Kenilworth, Winnetka, and Glencoe,
the Elmhurst-Villa Park-Lombard Water Commission,
the Chicago Park District and the Metropolitan Sanitary District of Greater Chicago, their employees and
agents and all persons assuming to act under their
authority, are hereby enjoined from diverting any of
the waters of Lake Michigan or its watershed into the
Illinois waterway, whether by way of domestic pumpage
from the lake the sewage effluent derived from which
reaches the Illinois waterway, or by way of storm runoff from the Lake Michigan watershed which is diverted
into the Sanitary and Ship Canal, or by way of direct
diversion from the lake into the canal, in excess of an
average for all of them combined of 3,200 cubic feet
per second. "Domestic pumpage," as used in this decree,
includes water supplied to commercial and industrial
establishments and "domestic use" includes use by such
establishments. The water permitted by this decree to
be diverted from Lake Michigan and its watershed may
be apportioned by the State of Illinois among its municipalities, political subdivisions, agencies, and instrumen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1966.
Decree.

388 U. S.

talities for domestic use or for direct diversion into the
Sanitary and Ship Canal to maintain it in a reasonably
satisfactory sanitary condition, in such manner and
amounts and by and through such instrumentalities as
the State may deem proper, subject to any regulations
imposed by Congress in the interests of navigation or
pollution control.
2. The amount of water diverted into the Sanitary
and Ship Canal directly from Lake Michigan and as
storm runoff from the Lake Michigan watershed shall
be determined by deducting from the total flow in the
canal at Lockport (a) the total amount of domestic
pumpage from Lake Michigan and from ground sources
in the Lake Michigan watershed, except to the extent
that any such ground sources are supplied by infiltration
from Lake Michigan, by the State of Illinois and its
municipalities, political subdivisions, agencies, and instrumentalities the sewage effluent derived from which
reaches the canal, (b) the total amount of domestic
pumpage from ground and surface sources outside the
Lake Michigan watershed the sewage effluent derived
from which reaches the canal, (c) the total estimated
storm runoff from the upper Illinois River watershed
reaching the canal, (d) the total amount of domestic
pumpage from all sources by municipalities and political
subdivisions of the States of Indiana and Wisconsin the
sewage effluent derived from which reaches the canal,
and (e) any water diverted by Illinois, with the consent
of the United States, into Lake Michigan from any
source outside the Lake Michigan watershed.
3. For the purpose of determining whether the total
amount of water diverted from Lake Michigan by the
State of Illinois and its municipalities, political subdivisions, agencies, and instrumentalities is not in excess of
the maximum amount permitted by this decree, the
amounts of domestic pumpage from the lake by the

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
426

Decree.

State and its municipalities, political subdivisions.,
agencies, and instrumentalities the sewage and sewage
effluent derived from which reaches the Illinois waterway, either above or below Lockport, shall be added to
the amount of direct diversion into the canal from the
lake and storm runoff reaching the canal from the Lake
Michigan watershed computed as provided in paragraph 2 of this decree. The accounting period shall
consist of the period of 12 months terminating on the
last day of February. A period of five years, consisting of the current annual accounting period and the
previous four such periods (all after the effective date
of this decree), shall be permitted, when necessary, for
achieving an average diversion which is not in excess
of the maximum permitted amount; provided, however,
that the average diversion in any annual accounting
period shall not exceed one hundred ten (110) per cent
of the maximum amount permitted by this decree. The
measurements and computations required by this decree shall be made by the appropriate officers, agencies,
or instrumentalities of the State of Illinois under the
general supervision and direction of the Corps of Engineers of the United States Army.
4. The State of Illinois may make application for a
modification of this decree so as to permit the diversion
of additional water from Lake Michigan for domestic
use when and if it appears that the reasonable needs of
the Northeastern Illinois Metropolitan Region (comprising Cook, Du Page, Kane, Lake, McHenry, and Will
Counties) for water for such use cannot be met from
the water resources available to the region, including
both ground and surface water and the water permitted
by this decree to be diverted from Lake Michigan, and
if it further appears that all feasible means reasonably
available to the State of Illinois and its municipalities,
political subdivisions, agencies, and instrumentalities

OCTOBER TERM, 1966.
Decree.

388 U. S.

have been employed to improve the water quality of
the Sanitary and Ship Canal and to conserve and manage the water resources of the region and the use of
water therein in accordance with the best modern scientific knowledge and engineering practice.
5. This decree shall become effective on March 1, 1970,
and shall thereupon supersede the decree entered by this
Court in Nos. 1, 2, and 3, Original Docket, on April 21,
1930, as enlarged May 22, 1933, provided that for the
period between January 1, 1970, and March 1, 1970,
the amount of water diverted by Illinois into the Sanitary and Ship Canal (determined in accordance with
paragraph 2 of this decree) shall not exceed an average
of 1,500 cubic feet per second.
6. The complaint of the State of Illinois in No. 11,
Original Docket, on behalf of its instrumentality, the
Elmhurst-Villa Park-Lombard Water Commission, is
hereby dismissed, without prejudice to that Commission
sharing in the water permitted by this decree to be
diverted from Lake Michigan.
7. Any of the parties hereto may apply at the foot of
this decree for any other or further action or relief, and
this Court retains jurisdiction of the suits in Nos. 1, 2,
and 3, Original Docket, for the purpose of making any
order or direction, or modification of this decree, or any
supplemental decree, which it may deem at any time to
be proper in relation to the subject matter in controversy.
8. All the parties to these proceedings shall bear their
The costs and expenses of the Special
own costs.
Master shall be equally divided between the plaintiffs as
a group and the defendants as a group in Nos. 1, 2,
and 3, Original Docket. The costs and expenses thus
imposed upon the plaintiffs and defendants shall be
borne by the individual plaintiffs and defendants, respectively, in equal shares.

