M AYS

v.

FRITTONo

[Slip. Or.

Statement of the case.

MAYS V. FRITTON.
1. Where the consideration of a question is prima facie within the j urisdiction and control of a State qourt-such as 'determining to whom the
surplus of a fund raised by the foreclosure ofa mo~ytgago belongs-if
the person who gave tle mortgage becomes bankrupt and his assignee
goes into the State court, submits to its jurisdiction, and nowhere
asserts, in any way, the rights of tile Federal courts in the matter-he
cannot, after taking his chance for a decision in his favor, and getting
one against him, raise in this court the point of want of jurisdiction in
the State court.
2. To authorize the assignee to recover the money or property under the
thirty-ninth section of the Bankrupt Act, it is necessary that he should
establish the act of the bankrupt, not only of which he complains, but
also that it was done with a view to give a preference over other creditors, and that the other party to the transaction had reasonable cause to
believe that such person was insolvent.
Wilson v. City Bauk (17 Wallace, 473), affirmed. The statute assumes that there may be cases where
the various acts of conveyance and disposition may be made, which
would not ainount to giving a preference.
3. Where, on a feigned issue directed to a jury, both of the necessary facts
abovementioned have been found against the assignee, and this court
has not the evidence before it, it must assume that the verdict of the
jury is right.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania; the case
being thus:
In the year 1862, one Born executed a mortgage to Doll
and others, oin real estate which he then owned., Some years
afterwards, that is to say, on the 16th of January, 1868, he.
gave to a Mrs. Fritton a bond for.$4000, payable in one year,
with warrant to confess judgment. On this warrant Mrs.
Frittou caused a judgment to be entered on the day oi
which it was given.
On the 31st day of the same month, a petition was presented by a creditor of Born alleging that various acts df
bankruptcy had been committed by him on the 1st, 3d, and
4ih of the same month, and praying that he might be declared a bankrupt. On the 28th day orFebruary, 1868, he
was accordingly adjudged a bankrupt, and on thq 18th of
March one Mays was appointed assignee.

Oct. 1874.]

MAYS v. FRITTON.

. Statement of the case.

On the 6t0 of July, 1868, Doll, the mortgagee, -already
mentioned, foreclosed his mortgage in one of the county
courts of Pennsylvania, and he having received from the
sheriff the amount of it (no question as to the validity.of his
lien having existed), there remained a sum of $5192 above
that amount, which the court 'referred to an auditor to distribute. Going before the auditor, Mrs. Fritton insisted
that her judgment was a lien upon the proceeds of the property sold, and that she was entitled to the proceeds.
The 'assignees appeared by their counsel and claimed the
entire fund, on the grounds:
"First. That it was the property of a bankrupt, and that,
by reason of the bankruotcy, all his estatepassedto the assignees.
"SeScond. That Mirs. Fri tton's judgment was given in fraud
of the Bankrupt law," and was void for'various other reasons set forth.
The Bankrupt Act enacts:
"SECTION 35. If any person, being insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency, and within four months before the filing a
petition by or against him, with a view to give a preference,
procures his property to be attached or seized on execution, or
makes any payment, pledge, transfer, or who shall within six
months make any sale, transfer, conveyance, or other disposition of his property to any person having reasonable cause to
believe that such person is insolvent and such payment, &c., is
made in fraud of the provisions of this act, the same shall be
void, and the assignee may recover the property, &c., from the
person so to be benefited."

Mrs. Frittoil denied the abovementioned. allegatiofis of
fact made by the assignees, and on her affidavit that they
were untrue, a jury was demanded an:d granted, in pursuance
of the practice in such cases in Pennsylvania. The jury
found that at the time of giving the bond and warrant Born
was insolvent, but that Mrs. Fritton had not reasonable cause
to believe that he was, au'd that the judgment was given to
secure a prioi debt, but was not given to enable Mrs. Firittoh
to obtain a preference over other creditors.

M AYS

v.

FRITTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

After the jury had thus passed upon the questions of fact,
the counsel for the assignees again appeared before the
auditor, claiming the fund and insisting that under tile findings of the jury Born was insolvent when he 'executed the
warrant of attorney to Mrs. Fritton ; that it was given to
secure- a prior debt, and was a fraud upo, the provigions of
the Bankrupt Act.
The auditor awarded the fund to Mrs. Fritton, and the
assignees took an appeal to the Supreme Court.
Upon the appeal to that court it was contended that there
was error, among other things, " in disregarding the various
provisions of the United States Bankrupt law in regard to
preferences given by banikrupts, and in giving Mrs. Fritton
a preference over other creditors, contrary to the twentyninth section of the United States Bankrupt Act."
In stating their position before the Supreme Court the
assignees, in their argument, which was contained in the
record, said:
"The inquiry is reduced to this :. Who is entitled to the fund
in court, Mrs. Fritton or Born's assignees?"
The Supreme Court affirmed the award below, which gave
the fund to Mrs. Fritton, and the case was now brought here
on error by the assignees.
Messrs. Durantand Horner,for the assignees, plaintiff in error:
1. The State court was without jurisdiction over Mrs.
Fritton's claim. It erred in granting a feigned issue upon
her affidavit, and in giving judgment in her favor. The
whole subject belonged to the Federal cotu'ts to decide, and
when it appeared that proceedings.in bankruptcy had been
taken and were still pending, the jurisdiction of the State
court was at an end, and the matter should have been c~rtifled into the District Court of the United States foir its determinatin. Whether the judgment creditor had a lien or not
is a question which can only be solved in the Bankrupt
court of the United States.
2. The judgment below was erroneous, because Mrs.

Oct. 1874.]

M AYS

v.

FRITTON.

Opinion of the court.

Fritton's judgment was given to secure a prior debt. The
case of Buchanan v. Smith, recently decidea by this court,*
declares in effect that whatever enables a debtor to proceed
more rapidly than if he was retarded by the necessary delay
of an action, is a fraud upon the B'ankrupt Act.
Messrs. A. V. Parsonsand J. S. Parsons, contra:
1. Whether if the point now made by the opposing counsel as to jurisdiction lad been made below, it would have
been a good one, need not be in the least considered, since
the record shows in the fullest manner that it was nowhere there made, and shows that everywhere, in fact, it
was waived. A party cannot take, in this*court, points not
taken anywhere below. This is settled practice.
2. No doubt in .Buchananv. Smith .many dicta are found
which might militate against the present case. But it is
manifest from what is said in the subsequent case of Wilson
v. The City Bank, that Buchanan v. Smith did not express the
views of this court' though it recorded .it judgment upon
the particular case; Iideed, since the case of Wilson v. The
City Bank, it has not been regarded as of an authority.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
Ii looking into the record we.do not find that the question of the jurisdictioh of the State courts over Mrs. Fritton's
claim, now made in the argument of the learned counsel of
the assignees, was anywhere made in the courts below. It
does not appear to have been made before the auditor, or
before the Supreme Court on appeal. On the contrary, it
affirmatively appears that the assignees submitted the question of the title to the fund to both of these courts, and
asked its decision in their favor. In the proceeding before
the auditor, before the jury passed on the questions of fact,
this was the case. After the jury had passed upon them the
counsel for the assignees again appeared before the auditor,
claiming the fund and insisting that under the findings of
16 Wallace, 277.
VOL. xx.

27

418

MAYS v. FRITTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the jury Born was all insolvent when he executed the warrant of attorney to Mrs. Fritton; that it was given to secure
'a prior debt, and was a fraud upqn the provisions of the
Bankrupt Act.
So, upon the appeal to the Supreme Court, the same
ground was taken.
In all these instances the assignees submitted the decision
of their claims to the State courts, and, in asking those
courts to decide in their favor, necessarily asked them to de.cide the case.
While the assignees have made sufficient objection to the
judgment rendered against them, we nowhere find an objection to the power of the court to render a judgment. An
the court has not decided correctly is a very
tt
objectioha
different thing from an objection that the court has no power
to decide.
The present was the case of the foreclosure of a niortgage, under the State laws. The disposition of any surplus
that might ar-ise from a sale on such mortgage, under a proceeding in the State courts, primdfacie belonged to the State
courts. The subject-matter was within their jurisdiction,
and under their control. If special circumstances existed
which altered that result, it vas the duty of the party making such claim to state them and ask a ruling accordingly.
Nothing of the kind was done in the present instance.
To be available here an objection must have been taken
in the court below. Unless so taken it will not be heard here.
It is not competent to a party to assent to a proceeding in
the court below, take his chance of success, and, upon failure,
come here and object that the cotirt below had no authority
to take the proceeding. This point comes before us at every
.term and is always decided the same way.*
We are not called upon, therefore, to decide whether, in
Brown v. Clarke, 4 Howard, 4; Phelps v. Mayer, 15 Id. 160; Turner v.
-Yates, 16 Id. 14; Camden v. Doremus, 3 Id. 515; Bank v. Kennedy, 17 Wal-

'lace, 19; Read v. Gardner, lb. 409; Ray v. Smith, lb. 412; Insurance Co.
,v. Folsom, 18 Id. 237; Town of Ohio v. Marcy,.Ib. 652; Lucas v. Brooks,
lb. 436; Shutte v. Thompson, 15 Id 151; Prout v. Roby, Ib. 472.

Oct. 1874.]

MAYS

v.

FRITTON.

Opinion of the court.

a case like the present, the State court having the fund-in
its possession, was competent-to proceed to its distribution,
or whether if demand had been made, there having been
previous to that time a decree of bankruptcy and the appointment of assignees, the whole subject should have been
remitted to the United States court.*
The assignees contend further, that the judgment below
was erroneous for the reason that the judgment of Mrs.
Fritton was void under the Bankrupt Act, and that she was
not entitled to the fund awarded to her. This is the question and the only question which was litigated by the itssignees in the State courts.

The thirty-ninth section of the Bankrupt Act defines what
acts of the debtor afford grounds for declaring him to be a
bankrupt upon the petition or his creditor, among which
are the foliowing: "Or who being bankrupt or insolvent,
shall make any payment, gift, giant, sale,
or give any
warrant to confess judgment, or procure or suffer his property to be taken on legal process with intent to give a preference to one or more of his creditors." The Bankrupt court,
on the 31st of January, 1868, -djndged that Born had committed some of the acts in this section specified, by reason
of which his creditor was entitled to have him declared a
bankrupt.
Whether Mrs. Fritton shall retain this fund or shall lose
it, depends upon the thirty-fifth section of the same act.
That section enacts that if -any person being insolvent or in
contemplation of insolvency, and within four months before
the filing a petition by or against him, with a view to give
a preference, procures his property to.be attached or seized
on execution, or makes any payment, pledge, transfer, or
who shall within six months make any sale, transfer, conveyance, or other disposition of his property to any person
bIuving reasonable cause to believe that such person is insolvent, and such'payment, &c., is made in fraud of the proSee Marshall v. Knox, 16 Wallace, 651.

MfAYS V. FRITTON.

[Slip. Ct.

Opin ion of tileCourt.

visions of this act, the same shall be void aid the assignees

may recover the property, &c., fEom the person so to be
benefited.
To authorize the assignees to recover the money or propcivty undier this section, itis neccssary that lie sholl establish the act of the Ibahkrupt, nAt only of which he comphai us,
but, also that it was done with a view to give a preference
over other creditors, and that the other party to the transaction had reasonable cause to believe that such person was
insolvent. For a'ull discussion of the law on this general
subject, see tie recent easc of Wil.,:n v. Oily -Bank.*
In the case before us, both of these necessary Facts have
been Couud aginst the assignees. Iu answer to the second
inquiry submitted to them, the jury said that Mrs. Fritton
had not reasonable cause to believe that Born was insolvent
at the tune lie executed the warrant of attorney.in
answer
to the farther inquiry, they said that this warrant of attorney
was not given with a view to a pirefbrence over other creditors. The warrant of attorney cannot, theretbre, he held void
under the thirtv-lirlth section of the ]Bankrupt ]a.
That
section does not reach it, and as the act of the parties was
valid under the statutes of Pennsylvania, there is nothing
to impeach its validity.
We have not the evidence belore us, and we must assume
that the verdict of the jury is right. The statute assumes
that there may be cases where the various acts of convey-.
ance and disposition may be made, which wonld not amount
to giving a preference.
Ne are of the opinion that the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Peuisylvauia was right, and that it should be
AFFIRMED.

17 Wallaee, 473; see also Bump on Bankriuptcy, 532-542, 547.

