Oct. 1874.]

AVERY. V. HiCKmEY.

.

4
407,

Statement of the case.

effect a renewal of the fbrmer:notice, and of itself operated
to ter~minate the said contract at the expiration of -thirty
days "from its date.
Assuming as the bill of exceptions seems to show- that
the dat of the notiC: of September 19th was the date of
its service on plaintiff,, we -think the cbiurt erred in refusing,
this prayer.
The only object or purpose of any hotice in the case was
-to apprise the 'party on. whom it' N*-s served that the other
party intended to terminate the'coutraot. The contract itself
fixed the time when this should take place, namely, thirty
days after the. Serhice. The fact that the notice refers to a
past notice and speaks of the termination, of the cont 'act as
being already accomplished, does not destroy its effect as a'
notice of preseit intent to -put an end to the arrangement.
This notice of intent the cofitract makes effectual at the end
of thirty datys, and so the court was asked to instruct the
jury. In declining to do this the, couit left'the jury to infer
that it'had no'effect whatever.
It is probabld that if the first notibe'was wholly waived or
abandoned the defendant had no rigbt to dismiss the plaintiff until 'the i9th day of'October. But even in reference
to damages defendant had a. right to' show tha k under the
contract and the notice she had only fiie'en days to remain,
and was inju:ed only to that extent.*
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

AVERY V. HACKLEY.
A valid lien is not divested by the mere fact of the holder of it subsequently.
taking a transfer of the equity of redemption made to him with a view
of giving to him a preference, and in violation of the Bankrupt 'Act.
The transfer of the equity of redemption of course is void.

ERROR to the Circuit Conrt for the Western District' of
Michigan..
A.very, assignee of Blake, a. bankrupt, brought trover in

AVERY V. HACKLEY.

.[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

the court below against Hackley & Co. to recover the value
of certain saw-logs, alleging that they had been transferred
by the bankrupt' to the said Hackley & Co. in fraud of the
Bankrupt Act.
The case, as found by the court on a waiver of a jury, was
thus :
Hackley & Co. were owners of saw-mills and engaged in
sawing logs, and so making boards from them. Blake was
a lumberman without capital, and engaged in buying logs
and bringing them to saw-mills to be thus sawed into boards.
On the 25th of January, 1868, a contract was made between the two parties,-by which Blake, on the one hand,
agreed to deliver at the saw-mill of the defendants 18,000,000
feet of saw-logs to be sawed into boards, and by which
Hackley & Co., on the other, agreed to advance to him $4
per 1000 feet, to be paid from time to time as the sawing
advanced, and to be applied exclusively to the purchase of
logs to be brought to them to be sawed.
To secure the advances, the property in the logs was conveyed to the defendants and the right of property vested in
them; and they covenanted that when the lumber was manufactured they would send it to market and sell it to the
best advantage; the proceeds to be equally divided between
the parties.
Blake accordingly sent to the defendants large quantities
of logs, and the defendants advanced large sums ($77,000)
of money upon them; the case, as found, showing that but
for the advances Blake could not have got this lumber from
the forests, and thence to the defendants' mills.
During the spring of 1868 the price of lumber fell largely,
so much so that it seemed likely that all the logs which
Blake had sent to the defendants would be inadequate to
repay to them their advances on account of it. Hereupon
Blake, on the 25th of May, in the year just named, informed
the defendants that he was unable to pay his debts, and proposed to make an assignment. They objected to his doing
this and requested him tp make a bill of sale of his property
to them. This he made; the bill of sale embracing not only

Oct. 1874.]

AVERY

v.H=ACKLEY.

409

Statement of the case.

the logs then at their mills, but certain land from which it
was cut, and various property, saws, horses, oxen, wagons,
&C., which had been used in getting it from the place where
it grew to the mills. The defendants, however, did not deliver
up nor cancel, nor agree to delicer up or cancel, the contract of
Januaiy 25th, but contrariwise,kept it in their possession.
The bill of sale of May 25th was made afterwards, with a
view to give the defendants a preference, and -therefore in
violation of the Bankrupt Act.
On the 2d of June, 1868, Blake was decreed a bankrupt,
and Avery, the plaintiff below, appointed his assignee. Soon
afterwards, the creditors objecting to the bill of sale, the defendants transferred to the assignee all the property conveyed
by the bill except the logs. These they had sold, the proceeds paying them nothing above their advances previous
to May 25th, and on their refusing to pay to the assignee
these proceeds he brought the action below.
The question, of course, was whether this contract of the
25th of January.was abandoned by the defendants doing
what they had done subsequent to it (that i to say, by their
taking, in the circumstances which they did, the bill of
sale of May 25th), and merged in that bill. If so, the defendants had lost their lien, since it was obvious that they
could not stand on the new contract of May 25th, it having
been plainly void as to creditors. On the contrary, if the
old security was not abandoned, then, although the defendants had attempted to strengthen their hold on the logs by
an additional security, voidable at the election of creditors,
and which the creditors did avoid, the right of lien.justly
acquired was not lost to the defendants, and they were at
liberty to assert it in this action.
. The court below decided that the lien was not affected
by
what was done on the 25th of May, and from that decision
this writ of error was taken.
Mr. J. W. Champlin,.for the plaintiff in error; Mr. E. A.
Storrs, contra.

A-VERY V. HACKLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of.the court.

Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
If the Vontract of January 25th, 1868, was never surrendered or abandoned it is manifest that the defendants acquired an interest in and lin upon the logs furnished by
Blake to the extent of the advances made by them. There
could'be, therefore, on the theory that the contract of 'the
25th of January was subsisting, no ground for the maintenance of this action. It is said, however, that the defendants lost their rights under this contract by what occurred
and was done subsequently to its execution.
It is undeniable that before the execution of the contract
of May 25th the logs in controversy were in th6 possession
of the defendants, who had advanced on them to Blake a
very large sum of money. Without these advances the'logs
could not have been cut, banked, and put in the river; and,
unless the defendants have plainly lbst their right to retain
the logs, common justice requires that they should be repaid.
The honesty of the transaction is undisputed. .oor is there.
anything to show that the defenidants were aware of the insolvent condition of Blake until after the logs had been delivered and the money advanced. They were proceeding in
good faith to carry out their part of the contract when they
were met by information of Blake's inability to go on with
his business. The bill of sale, as it is called, which they
took embraced not only the logs in controversy, but other
personal property and real estate.
It is fair to infer from the facts found in the case that the
bill of sale was not intended to clothe the defendants with
any greater rights in the logs than they possessed without
it, for it is very clear that the parties acted on the idea that
the lumber, when manufactured and sold, would fall short
of reimbursing the defendants for their advances, interest,.
and expenses. To save them from anticipated loss was,
doubtless, the motive for including the remaining property
of Bl'hke, aud not any expectation that previous]y acquired
legal rights wquld be enlarged. The giving this preference
has not operated to lessen the estate of Blake, as the creditors

Oct. 1874j]

AVERY V. HACKLEY.
Opinion of the court.

got everything but the logs, and these, as it turns out, Blake
had no interest in.
If there were any reasonable doubt about the intention of'
the defendants not to abandon the contract of January 25th,
it is set at rest by the consideration that when the bill of
sale was executed and delivered there was no agreement to
cancel it, nor was it, in fact, cancelled, but was held and retained by the defendants. Naturally, if" they had intended
to rest their right to the logs exclusively on the bill of sale,
they would have surrendered the former secu rity. It is,
therefore, not a case'where an old security is abandoned and
given up, and a. new one taken .as a substitute for that which
previously existed. If, then, the contract of 25th January
was not merged in the contract of 25th May, the latter one
cannot operate an extinguishment of the former, the fairness
of which has not been denied. This would not be the case
if both contracts were valid, unless by express agreement,
and it would be singular if such an effect could be produced,
where one of them could be avoided by creditors as against
the policy of the law. The creditors having elected to avoid
the fraudulent cbnveyance, take the property as though it
had never been made, and subject to all lawful liens upon
it. The assignee, standifig in the place 6f the bankrupt,
acquired no greater rights than he possessed, and the defendants neither gained nor lost any rights because of the
bill of sale.
These general views are sustained by authorities which
seem decisive of the point at issue.*
On~e of these authorities, While v. Gainer,- was trover by
the assignee of a bankrupt. The defendant, a-maker of
In re Kahley, 4 Bankrupt Register, 124; Ladd v. Wiggin, 35 New
Hampshire, 428; Towle v. Hoit,.14 Id. 63; St.edman'v. Vickery et al., 42
Maine, 136; Hoyt v. Dimon, 5 Day, 483; Britt -. Aylett, 6 English, 475;
Mead v. Combs, 4 C. E. Green (New Jersey), 112; Ripley v. Severance, 6
Pickeiing, 474; Sawyer v. Turpin, 5 Bankrupt Register, 339; Eastman
v. Porter, 14 Wisconsin, 39; Stokoe v. Cowan, 29 Beavan, 637 i Meshke v.
Van Doren, 16 Wisconsin, 319; White . Gainer, 2 Bingham, 28.
t 2 Bingham, 23.

AVERY V. IACKLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cloth, who had a lien on s(omc cloth in his possession, purchased it of the bailor, together with several-othr piece";,
after lie became bankrupt, and when tile cloth was demanded of him by tihe assiu-bes of the bankrupt, refused to
give it up, saying, "I may as well give up every trans-ction
of my life."
It was contended at the trial that the lien was merged in
the pu r llase, and that, at all events, it was waived, because
not set up when the cloth was demanded. The judge directed the jury that the demand should have been accompanied with a tender of the amnoumt due for the workmanship on the cloths, but reserved the point as to the merger
of the lien.
On deciding the motion for a rule nisi to set aside the verdict, Best, C. J., said: " It has been, urged that lie (the defendant) bought the cloths after the bankruptcy. If that
were so, lie stands in the same situation as every other purchaser, under the same circumstances; the purehaser is liable
to restore them to the assignees, but the assignees must take
them subject to such rights as had accrued )reviously to
their claim, and the bankruptcy of the bailor will not deprive
the defendant of the right to which lie is entitled,-the right
of lien. It might have been otherwise, if the defendant,
when called on to surrender the goods, had relied on the
purchase; but this was not the case, and the verdict must
stand."
The rule laid down by Chief Justice Best is applicable
here.
The assignee of Blake had no right to the property until
he had tendered the advances upon it, and there is no evidence that the defendants placed their refusal to deliver the
property upon any particular ground. In the absence of
this evidence it is a reasonable presumption that.the lien, if
not asserted in terms, at least, was not when demand was
made, ivaived. It is tre the defendants elaimed, after the
execution of the bill of sale to the creditors of Blake and
other persons, to be the absolute owners of the property
conveyed to them, but so far as the logs were concerned,

Oct. 1874.]

AVERY V. HIACKLEY.
Opinion of the court.

this claim was doubtless founded on the belief that the price
of lumber would not advance, and if it'did not, according to
the estimates which were made, Blake had no initerest ill
them. If so, although the claim of absolute owne 'rship
might not be legally correct, it had a basis or fact to rest
upon, and does not prove that the defendatits inteled to
abandon their lien. Indeed, it would be a harsh rule to
infer the abandoineut of a lien to the extent of this one,
contracted in good faith in the prosecution of a legitimate
business, unless the evidence on the subject left no other
alternative.
It is said that after the execution of the bill of sale the
lumber was not sold on joint account, and, therefore, the
lien "was waived. The answer to this is that the contract by
which the lien was secured did not require the lumber to be
sold on joint account. If the defendants senit the lumber
to market, sold it to best advantage, and divided the proceeds, the contract on their part was complied with. They
had entire control over it, and the manner of sale is iinma.
terial and cannot affect the rights of the parties.
The leading purpose of the Bankrupt law is to secure an
equal distribution of the bankrupt's property among his
creditors. This purpose was accomplished in this case when
the bill of sale was set aside, but the assignee seeks to go
further and increase the estate more than seventy thousand
dollars by relieving the bankrupt from the performance of a
pre-existing valid contract. This he cannot do, unless on
the clearest proofs that the defendants intended to abandon
this contract and rely wholly on the bill of sale. As these
proofs are wanting, the judgment is
AFFIRMED.

