64

OREGON STEAm NAVIGATION CO. V. WINSOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

as supporting the proposition submitted by the plain'tiffi, but
it is so obvious that they cannot be so regarded without departing from the established rules of law applicable in such
cases, that it is not necessary to pursue the discussion.
Like controversy exists between the State an( another of
the railroads,niontioned in the ordinance, in which case it is
contended that the ten per cent. charge imposed by that instrument is not a tax within any correct meaning of that
word, that it is an appropriation of the property of the. company without due process of law, or the taking of the property of the company without just compensation, but no'such
questiolds are open for exaninatiou in this case, as no sucl
errors are assigned in the record.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

The CHIEF JUSTICE dissented.
not sit.

OREGON STEAM NAVIGATION

STRONG, J., did

COMPANY V.

WINSOR.

Questions about contracts in restraint of trade must be judged according to
the circumstpnces on which they arise, and in subservience to the gen-

eral rule that there must be no injury to the public by its being deprived
of the restricted party's industry, and that the party himself must not

be precluded from pursuing his occupation and thus prevented from
supporting himself and hisfamily. Accordingly, where A., engaged in
navigating waters of California alone, sold in 1864 a steamer to B., engaged in navigating a particular river (the Columbia River), of Oregon
and Washington Territories (regions to the north of California), subject

°

to a stipulation that he, B., would not employ it or suffer it to be employed
for ten years from the date of the sale, in any waters of California, and
B., three years afterwards, i. e., in 1867, sold the same steamer to 0.,
engaged in navigating Puget's Sound (water in the extreme northwest
corner of Washington Territory and remote from all the other waters

described), subject to a stipulation thaf she should not be run or employed upon any of the routes of travel, or the rivers, bays, or viaters
ofthe State of California, or the Columbia River and its tributaries,
for the period of ten yeas from May 1st, 1867, held that the contract
was not void as in restraint of trade.
Held, further-the contract in the second case having been for ten years

from the date of it, and therefore for three years after the first contract

Oct. 1879.]

OREGON

STEAM NAVIGATION CO. V. WINSOR.

65

Statement of the case.
had expired-that it was so divisible in regard to the California portion
that it could stand'for the seven years for which B. was boubd to protect it, though it was void as to the 'remaining three, and accordingly
that B. could sue for a breach of it occurring within the first seven years
of it; that is to say, occurring withii the time that he was to protect A.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory:of Washington.
The Oregon Steam Navigation Company sued Winsor et
al. in one of the courts of he Territory of Washington, to
recover $75,000 as stipulated damages for tle breach of a

certain agreement between the parties. The complaint
set forth the following facts: That in 1864, the (Ja1ifornia
Steam Navigation Company being engaged in steam and
other transportation on the several routes of travel on the
rivers, 1ays, and waters of the State of California, sold to the
plaintifl; the said Oregon Steam Navigation Company (being
a company engaged in the like business on the Columbia
River and its b nches, in Oregon and Washing0n*),, the
steamer New W( Id, for $75,000, subject to a stipulation,
amongst other things, that the latter company should not
run or employ, or suffer to be run or employed, the said
steamer upon any of the routes of travel, rivers, bays, or
waters of the State of California, for the period of ten years
from the 1st day of May, 1864; that on the 18th day of February,'1867, the Oregon company sold the same steamer to'
"Winsor and others for the sum of $75,000, subject to a stipulation and covenant that she should not be run or employed
upon any of the routes of travel, or the rivers, bays, or-waters
of the State of California, or the Cdlnmbia Rivir and its
tributaries, for the period, of ten years from the 1st day of
May, 1867; and that for a breach of said covenant the vendees should pay 75,000 as*actual liquidated damages. The
complaint further averred, that at the time of the second
sale of the steamer, and up to the commencement of the
suit, the California Steam Navigation Company i-ere engaged with numerous steam and other vetsels in navigating
the waters of the.State of California; and that the Oregoli
* These Territories are immediately north of California.
VOL. XX.

5

66

OREGON STEAM NAVIGATION 00. V. WINSok.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion 'of the court.

company, the plaintiffs, were'likewise engaged in the navigation of the Columbia River and its branches;' and that at
the time'of 'said sale to the defendafits, the latter' were engaged in navigating the waters of Puget Sound,* and were
in nowise engaged in the navigation of the waters of Oregon
or California, or of any of the waters described in the stipulation. The breach complained of was that the steamer had
been engaged from the 1st of November, 1868, to the commencenient of the suit, in the transportation of passengers
and freight from the city of San Francisco to Vallejo, in the,
State of California, being a route of travel on the waters of
the State of California embraced in the sfipulatiou and covenan t..
The complaint was demurred to, and the demurrer was
'sustained and the action dismissed. The plaintiff brought
a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory, which
affirmed the judgment, and that judgment was now here on
the present writ of error.
The sufficiency of the complaint was of course the matter
brought'up; and the case turned mainly upon the question,
whether the covenant entered into by the defendants, whereby they agreed "not to run or employ, or suffer to be run
or employed, the said steamboat New World upon any of
the routes of travel, or the rivers, bays, or waters of the
State of California, or the Columbia River and its tributaries, for the period of ten years from the first day of May,
1867," &c., was valid. The objection urged against it was
that it was a contract in restraint of trade, and as such contrary to public policy.
Mr. G. H. Williams, for the plainttff in error; Messrs. B. F.
Dennison and L. Kl1ies, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
It is a well-settled rule of law that an agreement in general restraint of trade is illegal and void; but an agreement
This bay is in the northwest extremity of Washington Territory, and

at quite a distance from all parts of the Columbia River.

Oct. 1873.]

OR-0ON STEAM NAVIGATifN CO. V. WINSOR.

67

Opinion of the court.

which operates merely in. partial restraint of trade is good,
provided it be not unreasonable and there be a consideration
to support it.* In order that it may not be unreasonable,
the restraint imposed must not be larger than is required
for the necessary protection of the party with whom the contract is made.t .A contract, even on good considei'ation,
not to rise a trade any Where in England, is held void in that
country, as being too general a restraint of trade; but a contract not to use a trade at a particular place, if it be founded
on a good consideration, and be made for a propeK and usefql purpose, is valid.1 Of course, a contrabt not to exercise
a trade generally would be obnoxious to the rule, aind would
be void.
Theapplication of the rule is more difficult than a cleai'
understanding of it. In this country especidlly, where State
lines interpose such a slight barrier to social and busifiess
intercourse, it is often difficult to decide whether a contract
not to exercise a trade in a particular State is, oi is not,
within the rule. It has generally beeit held to be so, oi the
ground that it would compel a map thus bound to transfer
his residence and allegiance to another State int order to
pursue his avocation.§
But this m6de of applying the rule must be received with
some caution.

This country is substantially one country,

especially in all matters 6f trade and business; and it is
manifest that cages may arise in which it would involve too
narrow a view of the subject to condemn as invalid a contract not to carry on a particular business within a particular
State. Suppose the case of two persons associated in busiiiess 'as partners, and engaged in a -manufacture by which
they supply the country with a certain article, but the process'of manufacture is a secret; and they agree to sephi'ate,
and one of the terrris of their separation i.s, that one of the
parties shall not sell the mantifictured article ini Massachu* Chitty on Contracts, 576, 8th American edition.

t 1b.; Tindal, C. J., in Horner-v. Graves, 7 Bingham, 743.
: 2 Williams's Saunders, 156, note 1.
Taylor v. Blanchard, 18 Allen, 375; Dunlop P-Gregory, 6 Selderi, 241.-

68

OEooN STEAM DTAVIGATfON Co. ?. WINSOR.

[sup. Ct.'

Opinion of the court.

setts, where the other resides and carries oil business; and
that the latter shall not sell the article in New York, where
his associate is to reside and carry ol business. Can there
be any doubt that such an agreement would b6 valid and
binding? Cases must be judged according to their circumstances, and can only be rightly juidged when the reason-and
grounds of the rule are carefully considered.
There are two principal grounds on which the, doctrine
is founded, that a contract in restraint of trade is void as
against public policy. One is, the injury to the 1 iftblic by
being deprived of the resti-icted party's industry; the other
is, the injury to the party himself by being precluded from
pursning his occupation and thus being prevented, from supporting himself and his family. It is evident that both these
evils occur when the contract is general, not to pursue one's
trade at all, or not to pursue it in the entire realm or country. The country suffers the loss in both cases; and the
party is deprived of his occupation, or is obliged to expatriate himself in order to follow it. A contract that is open to
such gi'ave objection is clearly against public policy. But
if neither of these evils ensue, and if.the contract is founded
on a valid consideration and a reasonable ground of benefit
to the other party, it is free from objection, and may be enforced.
In accordance.with these principles it is well settled that
a- stipulation by a vendee of iny trade, business, or establishment, that the vendor shall not exercise the same trade
or business, or eiect a similar establishment within a reasonable distance, so as not to interfere with the value of the
trade, business, or thing purchased, is reasonable and valid.
II like matiner a stipulation by the vendor of an' article to;
be used in a business or trade in which he is h imself engaged, that.it shall not be used within a reasonable region
or distance, so as not to interfere with his said business or
trade, is also yalid and binding. The point of difficulty in
these cases is to determine what is a reasonable distance
within which the prohibitory stipulation may lawfully have
effect. And it is obvious, at first glance, that this must de-

Oet.'1873.]

OREGON STEAM NAVIGATION CO. b. WNSOR.

'69,

Opinion of the court,

Pend upon the circumstances of the particular case; although, from the uncertain character of the subject, much
latitude.must be allowed to the judgment and discretion of
the parties., It is clear that a stipulation that another shall
not pursue his trade of: employment at such a distance from
the business of the person to be protected, as.that it could
not possibly affect or injure him, would be unreasonable and
absurd. On the other han'd, a stipulation is unobjectionable
and binding which imposes the restraint to only such an extent of territory as thay be necessaryfor the protection, of
the party making the stipulation, provided it does not violate the two indispensable conditions, that the other party
be not prevented' from pursuing his call'ing, and that the
country be not deprived of the benefit of his exertions.
To apply these principles to the case before us: The Cali.
fornia Steam Navigdtion Company, being engaged in the
business of transportation on the rivers, bays, and waters of
California, was willing to- sell one of their steamers to the
Oregon Stedm Navigation Compan3y, which was engaged. il
a similar business on the Columbia River and its tributaries,
provided-the latter company would agree that the steamer
should not be used in the California waters for the period
of ,ten years from the first day of May, 1864. This stipulation was necessary to protect the former company from il-'
terference with its own business. It had no tenddncy to
destroy the usefulness of the steamer, and did not deprive
the country of any industrial agency. The transaction
merely:t ransferred the steamer from the employMent of one
company to that.of another "situated and'doing business in
another State. .It involved no transfer of residence or ailegian e on the part of the vendee in order to pursue its employment, nor any cessation or diminution of its business
whatever. The presumption is that the arrangement was
mutually beneficial to both companies, and that it promoted
the goneral interests of commerce:on the' Pacific, coast.
'Again,,the Oregon company were afterwards willing to dispose of the same steamer to the defendants, who were engaged in'the like business of transportation in the waters of

70

OREGON STEAM NAVIGATION CO. V. Wl[NSOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Puget Sound, Washington Territory, provided that the latter
would agree that the steamer should not be run or employed
upon any of the routes of travel or rivers, bays, or waters of
California, or the Columbia River and its tributaries, for the
period of ten years from the first day of May, 1867. This
stipulation excluded the steamer from the territory covered
by the former stipulation exacted by the California company,
and also from the territory occupied by the'Oregon company
itself. The latter portion of the stipulation stands on the
same ground and reason as did the first stipulation between
the California and Oregon companies. The former portion
was necessary in order that the Oregon company might
faithfully keep its covenant with the California company.
It is true that the stipulation in question covers a period of
time which extends three years beyond the period for which
the Oregon company is boupd to the California company.
The latter would expire on the first of May, 1874, and the
stipulation in question extends to the first of May, 1877.
This extra period of three years, in reference to the waters
of California, is not necessary to the protection of the Oregon company. That company is under no obligation with
regard to those three years. But the suit is brought and
the breach is alleged for a portion of time during which the
Oregon company is bound to protect the California company
from the interference of said steamer. And the question
arises whether the contract is so divisible in relation-to the
California portion that it can stand 'for the seven years for
which the Oregon company is bound, though it be void as
to the remaining three Years. We think it is so divisible.
It is laid down by Chitty as the result of the cases, and his
authorities support the statement, " that agreements in restraint of trade, whether under seal or not, are divisible;
and, accordingly, it has been held that when such an agreement contains a stipulation which is capable of being construed divisibly, and one part thereof is-void as being in restraint of trade, whilst the other is not, the court will give
effect to the latter, and will not hold the agreement to be
void altogether." The cases cited in stipport of this'propo-

Oct. 1873.] OREGON

STEAM NAVIGATION

CO. v. WINsoR. 71 "

Opinion of tho court.

sition, are Ckesman et ux. v. Nainby,* Wood v. Benson,t 1allan
v. Mdy,t Price v. Green,§ Nicholls v. Stretton.I In Price v.
Green the contract was not to exercise the trade of a perfumer in London, or within six hundred miles thereof; and
it was held divisible and good for London only. This case
was carried'through all the courts. In Nicholls v. Siretton
the stipulation was that an attorney's apprentice, who was
to serve five years, should not, after his term expired, be
concerned as attorney for any persons who had, previous to
th6 expiration of said apprenticeship, been a client of the
attorney with whom.the contract was made,, or who should
at any time thereafter become his client. It was strenuously
and fully argued t'hat whilst the contract'might have beeii
good as to past clients it was certainly not good as to future
ones, and being an entire contract, the whole was bad. But
the court followed the previous decision of the Exchequer
Chamber in Price v. Green, held the contract divisible, and
sustained the action. We see no reason'why this principle
should not be followed in the present case. The line of
division between the period which is properly covered by
the restriction and that which is not so, is clearly defined
and easily drawn. It J subject to no confusion or uncertainty, and the court can'have no difficulty in applying it.
Regarding this objection, therefore, as removed, the covenant made by the defendant seems to stand on the same
ground as that made by the plaintiffs with the California
company. The same observations may be made with reference to it. The public was not injured by being deprived
of any of the business enterprise of the country. The vendees did not incapacitate themselves from carrying on business just as they had previously done, and in the same
locality.- Their business was rather fiaeilitated by the arrangement. Finally, the stipulation, it will be presumed,
was founded onfa valuable considerati6n in its influence upon
the price paid for the steamer; its object and purpose was
* 2 Strange, 739.
" : 11 Meeson & Welsby, 653.
1 10 Queen's Bench, 346.
-

t 2 Crompton & Jervis, 94.
16 Id. 346.

72

NATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTON V. TEXAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

simply to protect the vendors, and if wj except the three
years before considered in its qelation to California, its restraining effect extended no farther than was necessary for
their protection.
We are unable, therefore, to see anything in the contract,
so far as i is now in question, which militates against public
policy.
There are no other points adverted to which demand the
serious consideration, of the court.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the case remanded to be pro-

ceeded in
ACCORDING TO LAW.

Dissenting, Justices CLIFFORD, SWAYNE, and DAVIS.

NATIONAL BANK OF WASHIGTON

V.

TEXAS.

1. A note payable to bearer, though overdue and dislonored, passes by delivery the !egal title to the holder, subject to such equities as may be
asserted by reason of its dishonor.
2. Any one disputing the title of the holder of such paper takes the burden
of establishing, by sufficient evidence, the facts necessary to defeat it.
3. There is no competent evidence in this chancery suit that the bonds in,
controversy; which were issued by the United States to the State of
Texas, though overdue when they passed from the treasury of the State,
were issued by the State or received by the person to whom they were
delivered for any treasonable or other unlawful purpose.
4. The absence of the indorsement of the governor of the State on the bonds
does not raise a presumption of such unlawful purpose under the circumstances of this case.
5. The cases of Texas v. While and C/diles (7 Wallace, 718), Same v.-Hardenberg (10 Id. 68), and Same v. Huntington (16 Id. 402), considered, and
their true result ascertained and applied to the present case.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the Distridt of Columbia; the case being thus:
The United States, on the 1st of January, 1851, issued to
the State of Texas for the sale of a portion of her north-

