Oct. "1873.]

HAILES V. VAN WORMER.
Syllabus.

portant elements. And if this be so, the novelty of the
frame does not consist in its having two uprights standing
apart from each other without regard to the figure of the intervening space. As we have seen, if the' semicircular shape
of what in the specificatioii is called the inner margin' of the
yoke, that is, of the space, between the uprights, is not a
necessary constituent, the yoke cannot accomplish the results claimed for it, and no manner of support for a wringer
is exhibited. Surely a framo shaped like an inverted M (T),
though it would have tivo uprights separated by a space and
conneqted at the bottom, wouldbe essentially different fromn
-that claimed in this patent, because incapable of the same
use. , It could not support a clothes-writfger in the manner
described in the drawingsannexed to the patent. A space
bounded by righ't lines is not substantially the same as one
bounded by a curve, and unless we throw out of the specification and the claims all that -is said respecting. the configu-ration of the interval between the uprights, we must 'hold
that the defendants, in the use Of their device, have not
been guilty or any infringement of the complainants'. rights.
They have used a portable support for a wringiug mechanism which has some of the features of that of the complaihants, but it has not the U-fcrmed yoke, which is essential to
the patented comhbination.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

This case was argued before the CHIEF JUSTICE took
his seat and he did not participate in the judgment.

HAIRM V. VAN WORMER.
1. A ned combination, if it,produces new and useful results, is patentable,
though all the constituents of the-combination were well known and in
common;)ise before the combination was made. But the results must
,be a product of the combination, and not a mere aggregate of several
results, each the comnlete product of one of the combined elements.
VOL. XX

28

HAILES V. VAN WORMER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2 Merely bringing old devices into juxtaposition, and there allowing each to
work out its own effect without the production of something novel, is
not invention.
3. No one, by bringing together several old devices without producing a new
and useful result, the joint product of the elements of the combination,
and something more than an aggregate of old results, can acquire a right
to prevent others from using the same devices, either singly or in other
combinations, or, even if a new and useful result is obtained, can prevent others from using some of the devices, omitting others, in combination.

APPE1AL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of New York.
I-Iiles & Treadwell, manufacturers of stoves, filed a bill
in the court below against Van Wormer et al., engaged in
the same business, to enjoin these last from making a certain
sort of coal-stoves called " base-burning," " sell-feeding," or
reservoir" stoves. These stoves are so called because they
have a magazine or reservoir suspended above the fire-pot,
which Amy be filled with coal at its uppeir extremity. This,
when filled, is closed'by a cover. The lower end of the reservoir or feeder is left open, and, as the coal in the fire-pot
is consumed, that in the reservoir fhlls and supplies the place
of that consumed, the combustion being only in the fire-pot,
and not in the reservoir. Every reader, on looking at the
diagrams on pages 355, 356 and 357, will recognize the sort
of stove referred to.
The value of this sort of stove, which had been in large
use in this country for some time, was not a matter of question. But persons were not all agreed as to what was the
most. economical and otherwise the most advantageous mode
of ermbodying the principle which made the distinguishing
characteristic of the stoves.
The bill wits founded on two letters-pateant; one reissued
patent, granted to the complainants, February 3d, 1863, for
an "improvement in stoves," the original patent having been
granted to ilailes & Treadwell, as inventors, May 7t1, 1861;
the other a patent granted to-one Mead and Hailes, assigrnees
of Iailes & Treadwell, as inventors, August 11th, 1863, for
an " improvement in coal stoves;" the interest of Mead in

Oct. 1873.]

HAILES V. VAN WORMER.
Base-burning Stove.

FIG. 1.-Base-burning Stove.

355

356

IIAILES V. VAN WORMER.
Base-burning Stove without the casing.

Fr. 2.-Base-burning Stove witbout the casing.

[Sup. Ct.

Oct. 1873.]

HAILES V. VAN WORMER.

Vertical section of Base-burning Stove.

FIG. 8.-Vertical section of Base-burning Stove.

357

HAILES V. VAN WORMER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

which patent had become vested in the complainant Tread-

well.
The specification of the reissue of February 3d, 1863, said:
"Our experience in this class of stoves" (base-burning or
reservoir stoves) "is, that the most beneficial effects are to be
secured from an organization which does not pass the products
of combustion up, around, and over the top of the coal-supply
reservoir, so as to heat a surrotrnding jacket thereof, but heats
a circulating or ascending body of air by means of radiated
heat from the fire-pot, and at the same time heats the base of
the stove by means of direct heat, circulating through de.-eending flues which lead into the ash-pit, or around it, and to the
smoke and draft flue; also, that the greatest economy, considering the increased benefit secured from supplying coal continuously out of a reservoir, is attained with an arrangement
which holds the superincumbent body of coal in suspension,
such arrangement being a reservoir with a contractel discharge
extending slightly down into a flaring or enlarged fire-pot,
around or above the whole upper edge of which, outside of the
contracted discharge of the coal-supply reservoir, the flame is
allowed to circulate, and, therefore, caused to descend and circulate around or under the base portion of thie stove, in its passage to the smoke and draft flue.
"The effect of the first-named plan is to husband the radiated
heat and use it for the purpose of warming the upper part of

the stove and the room in which it is situated, as well as for
heating air for warming rooms above, if desirable, and at the
same time to so confine the direct fire-heat and keep it in contact
with the base portion of the stove a sufficient length of time as
to insure the warming of the same to a comfortable degree.
"The effect of the second plan is to relieve the incandescent
coal from. the weight of the body of' superincumbent coal, and
thus obviate a compression of the incandescent coal in the firepot, and secure for the flame a free expansion in a lively and
brilliant manner, and thus enable it to act with great beating
effect upon the lower portion of the stove in its passage to the
smoke and draft flue.

"With the view of organizing a stove or heater which operates on the base-burriing or coal-supply reservoir principle, and
at the same time embraces the tw.o plans of operation above
referred to, we have devised the following plan of construction:

Oct. 1873.]

HAILES V. VAN

WORMER.

Statement of the case.

"A is a base of our stove, constructed with a chamber B, which
extends around and beneath the top plate of the said base. In
this chamber air may be admitted through'the front passage A.
Upon the top-plate of the base A is erected a support C, for horizontal grate D, and a fire-pot E, as shown. The support forms
a chamber below the grate, and out of the front of the support

Fio. 4.

FIG. 5.

q portion of metal is removed as at b, so that air to the fire On

the grate may have free access when the ordinary regulator or
damper is open. In order to insure the pa.ssage of the air to the
fire only from below the grate, a out.off, c,extends out from the
upper front part of the support 0, and rests upon the two lateral
stops d, which extend out from the front of the support, as
shown. The top plate of the base, at points outside of the support 0, is perforated with three apertures, F, F', F', which com-

HAILES V. VAN WORMER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

municate with the chamber B. The apertures F', F2 , have vertical pipes F8 , F,4, placed in or around them, while the aperture
F has the draft and smoke pipe or flde F 5 placed in or around
it, as shown. The pipes F, F, extend up to the upper riu of'
the firelpot E, and conpect to.perforated flanges or cars of said
pot, so that a space, f, exists between the pipes and fire-pot, as
shown. The outer portion of the top edge of the pipes F 3, F4, p.rotrades above the flanges to a slight degree, as indicated at g, g.
"The fire.pot flares at top and contracts at its bottom ; the
flare and contraction are gradual. The section of the metal, of
which the pot is made, shows a gradual decrease in thickness
from the centre of the depth of the pot in an up and downward
direction, as indicated at 1, 2, 3. This construction or form of
the metal insures an equable heating of the pot at all parts, and
a uniform expansion and contraction by the principle of conduction, the thickest and most intensely heated portion imparting to the thinnest or less inten.5cly heated portions a large
amount of its heat, on the principle just mentioned.
"Above the fire-pot and vertical pipes the coal-supply reservoir
G is a'rranged. The reservoir id constructed with a flange, h, at
its base, said flange turning down at its outer edge so as to form
a right angle, or thereabouts, as shown at i. The rim, i, of tho
flange fits down upon the rim of the fire.pot and incloses the top
opening of the fire-pot of the vertical pipes within a continfuous
chamber J, as represented; the, said chamber constituLing an enlargement to the upper portion of the' fire-pot, as it were, and
thus giving increased room for the expansion of the flame.
"The diameter of the coal reservoir is decreased below the
point where th.Q body of supply coal is suspended by means of
an extension or ring-flange, k,'which is in ibrm of an" inverted
frustum of a cone. This flange -also serves. in connection with
a detachable ring v, which, also, is in form of an inverted frustdm of a cone, to form a frame or sash for the reception of firebrisk or other fire-proof material, as shown at mn. The ring v
has a horizontal flange, and bolts by the same, to the under
side of the-flange n of the coal-supply reservoir. The fire-brick
are shaped so as to form, .hen put together,.an inverted frusturn of a-cone, and they,-tlmrefore,-when elamped between- the
devices k, v, cannot descend, separately, out of their places, nor
can they do so unitedly, as the largest circumference of the conic
frustum m cannot pass through the space between the lower

Oct. 1873.]

HAILES V. VAN WORMER.
Statement of the case.

ends of the devices k, v.- It will be observed that the fire-brick
continue'the contraction of the cor.csupply reservoir, and thus
insure a gradual descent of the supply cbal upon the central part
of the bed of incandescent coal, and at the same time leave a
large and open- space outside of tbe conic frustum rn, for the
free burning and expanding of the gases or flame. This result
is also furthered by the dishing form of the flange h, the same
forming a large circulating flame-channel J, all round t06 upper
edge of the fire-pot, as illustrated.
"The reservoir G is continued up to a horizontal division plate
I of the stove, by means of an extension G', as shown. The
division-plate I has a large coal-induction hole n in its centre and
several hot-air passages o o near its circumference or outside of
the circle of the coal-supply reservoir, as -shown. Around the
central hole n there is constructed a small, combined cylindric
and conic hopper J. which is furnished with an adjustable valve
s, an(l a removable cover-plate J2, as hereinafter dcscii d.
Through and from the rear of this hopper ther6 extends a branch
draft-flue r, the same leading into the main draft-flue F5,'as
shown. In order to open and close this flue (r) and also to
open and close the induction-hole to the coal-supply reservoir,
the taper-valve s is fitted to the lower part of the hopper J, and
up from the centre of the back of this valve a vertical rod s
extends and passes through the removable cover-plate J 2 of the
2
2
hopper, and also through a weight s , as shown. The weight s
is not level on its bottom with the top surfafce of the cover-plate
J2, nor is the quantity of' metal on one side of the rod as great
as that on the other side. The cover-plate, the valve, the rod,,
and the weight, are all connected together, s6 that by taking
hold of the rod the whole can be lifted together, that is, when
the yalve is raised, first, to its full stroke; but the connection is
also such that, when the valve is required to be raised a less
distance than its full stroke, the movement of the valve is independent of the cover-plate J2; therefore the branch-flue r can
be opened and closed or the damper-valve adjusted without disturbing the cover-plate, and whenever such an adjustment of
the valve is made, the weight, by reason of its being.unbalanced,
will automatically bind upon the rod and hold it and
the valve
in suspension.
"It is desirable to open the branch of the direct draft-flue
when the fire is first started, and also before the cover-plate J2

HAILES V. VAN WORMER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

is removed, first, in order to obtain a powerful draft, and
second, to pass off the pent-up gases in the coal reservoir through
the branch-flue, instead of allowing them to puff out into the
room at the time when fresh coal is being introduced.
"cThe organization thus far described has but one shell, and
in order to make it a double shell or wall-stove a easing, K,L,
M, is placed around it from base to top. The part K of this
casing incloses a portion of the fiire-pot, and of the vertical
pipes and draft-flue. This part is finely perforate'd all around
so as to admit air to the first wall, to be heated as indicated at
w. The part L of the casing incloses the remainder of the vertical 'pipes and fire-pot, and also a small portion of the coalsupply reservoir, but not the main draft or smoke flue. It is
also finely perforated so as to admit cold air, as indicated at w1.
The part X of the casing- incloses the remainder of the coalsupply reservoir, and extends up to and unites with a stationary
top or finishing plate W1. This part of the casing is not 1erforated, but th6 plate W1 has perforations through it for the
escape of the confined heated air W3 into the room or into pipes
leading to rooms above, as indicated by arrows W'.
"It will be seen that the air circ-ulates all about the radiating
surface, and thus.protects the same from rapid destruction by
the fire, and while this is the case the air is very thoroughly
beated, and discharged in that state into the room where the
stove is situhted, or into other conductors."
There.were in this reissue twelve claims, the first five of
w.hieh, the complainants alleged, had been.infringed by the
-defendants, niamely:
"(1.) A base-buriiihg, coal-supply reserv6ir stove or furnace,
so constructed that the products of combustion do not pass up,
around, and above the supply-reservoir, nor up through the
giate, but down outside of the fire-pot toward the base of the
stove, and out through a main draught flue, which leads directly
from.a space or chamber about the lower part of the stove, all
for the purpose set forth and substantially as described.
"(2,)' The contracting of-the'discharge end of the coal-supply
reservoir, the expanding of the fire-pot, and the extending of
the flame-p~ss.age downward, for united operation, in a basebur'ning, coal-supply reservoir 'stove or furnace, essentially as
set forth.

Oct, 1873.]

Oct. 173.]
HILES V. VANq WbOiMER..
Statement of the case.

"(3.) A fire-pot rbsting on a base, and; imperforated on its
inner or outer circumference,'or from:its inner to its outer eir
curmference, and so constructed and dpplied, with respect to a
coal-supply reservoir, that an inclosed horizontal chamber for
the free expansion and circulation of the flame and gases, is
f6rmed all around and outside of the contracted discharge, and
'above the upper ed'g of the fire-pot, substantially as and for the
purpose set forth.
"(4.) The descending passage or passages,.in combination'
with the continuous flame-expansion and circulation passage,
and a main draft-flue, leading out of the base or lower part of
the stove or furnace, substantially as set forth and for the purpose described.
"(5.) Constructing the fire-pot of a base-burning, coal-supply
reservoir stove or furnace, with an imperforated circumference
and in the form of a trumpet-mouth at its upper portion, in combination with descending flame-passages, substan'tially as described and for the purpose set forth."
The specification of the patent of August 11th, 1863, stated
that the invention covered by it was an improvement on the
stove patented by the reissue of February. 3d; 1863, and
consisted,
"1st. In the construction of aft illumination-window or windows, at one or more points in the continuous flame-expansion
chamber or channel, which is about the base of the coal-supp'ly
reservoir and the top of the coal-burning fire-pqt, in combination
with a descending flue which leads to a chamber about the base
of the stove, and from such chamber into a chimney-flue:
"2d. In the construction of a damper draft-flue in the continuous flame-expansion chamber or channel, located as just
stated, in co'nmbination with a descending flue, which firsb leads
down into a chamber about the base of tie stove, and then into
the chimney-flue, with which the damper draft-flue connects
directly at the top of the flre-pet."
SThe patent .(see figures on page 364) proceeded:
"Fig. I is a vertical longitudinal seetion of a..stove patented
by us at previous dates, with our imprbvements of -thepresebt
date applied to it.
"Fig. 2 is a vertical transVerse section of the whople stove.

HAILES V. VAN WORMER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"Our first improvement is carried into practice by casting the
fire-pot A with a rectangular, elliptical, or circular extension a
(Fig. 1) (6) at one or more points of its upper edge. This enlargement we extend through an opening in, the outer easing or jacket
B of the stove, and close it with mica or other transparent material C, as shown. We may find it more practical to form a short
ledge on the upper edge of the fire-pot, as at b, and cast the
FIG. 6.

FIG. 7.

enlargement c on the part D, which forms the expansion-flame
passage E, as shown. In any case, the illumination-window
must be constructed so as to confine the flame and gases at this
point within the flame-chamber E.
"Our second improvement is carried into practice by casting
in like manner an enlargement of.proper form to make a branchflue F on the upper edge of the fire-pot, or on the lower edge of

Oct. 1873.]

HAILES V. VAN WORMER.
Statement of the case.

the part D, as represented. This branch-flue we run into'the
smoke-pipeor draft-flue G, and in order to open and close it-at
will, we have arranged within it a damper or valve 1, which has
its i'od, by which it is turned, extended to the outside of the
casing of the stove. By opening the damper a direct draft is
obtained, and the fire can be kindled very speedily, and the
draft does not have to pass up through the body of coal in the
reservoir, as in our other patented stoie: Wh6n the damper is
closed, the highly ignited gases pass down the descending flues
J J, as in our former patent. We will here state that we have
slightly modified the base of our stove by increasing the depth
of the ash-pit K, and dispensing with a chamber or sphce under=
neath the ash-pit. This space or chamber L, in'which the heated
products of combustiori circulate to heat the base of the stove,
and pass to the draftw or smoke-flue, being only arournd the.
ash-pit."
There were in this patent six claims, the firsttwo of which,
the complainants alleged, had been infringed by the defe4dants, namely:
-(1.) The combination of .the illuminating openings, flameexpansion chamber, coal-supply reservoir, fire-pot, descending
flue and draft-flue, substantially in the manner and for the purpose described.
"(2.) The combination with the flame-expansion chamber,
formed at the base of the coal-supply reservoir, and.around th'.
upper edge 'of the fire-pot of a base-burning stove, of tld branch
draft-flue with damper, when the same are located with respect
to the flame-expansion chamber, fire-pot, coal-supply reservoir,
and descending combustion-flues, substantially as and for the
purpose described."
Certain parts of the things above described were showfi
by the evidence, or were admitted, not to be new in A.D.
1861, when the complainants professed to have invented
their base-burning stove. Amongthem these:
The introduction of a magazine or reservoir into a stove
for the purpose of supplying coal to the fire-pot below.
The contraction of the lower end of the said ieservoir, so
that it should be smaller than -the upper portion thereof,

HAILES V. VAN WORMER.

[Sup. CL.

Statement of the case.

which, the complainants asserted, aided in sustaining the
mass of coal therein, and prevented too great pressure upon
the burning coal in the fire-pot.
The construction of a fire-pot of larger diameter at the top
than at the bottom.
So also stoves so constructed that the smoke, gas, and
other products of combustion passed from the fire-chamber
through downward flues to or near the level of the bottom
of the stove were common; the revertible flues so-called had
long been in use.
. In one of the exhibits these products of combustion were
passed down and through a chamber in the base of the stove
and thence out into the smoke.pipe.
The addition of a direct draft to such stoves as were constructed with revertible flues, by means of a flue above the
fire-pot provi'ded with a damper to be closed after the fuel
had been ignited was no novelty.
The use of openings in the exterior or shell of the stove
and the insertion of mica thereiti in oriler to permit the light
emitted in the process of combustion to be seen, hrd been
employed for very many years.
The- stove of the defendant, which the complainants alIdged infringed their patents, ciltained in combination several of the devices claimed by the complainants, as1. The flaring fire-pot supported by a base, the diameter
of the. pot narrower at the bottom than at the top.
2. .A -vessel oveir the lire-pot to receive t~if coal,- and let it
down by Way Qf supply on the fire below; the lower end of
the vessel being narrower than the upper.
3. Reveitible flues outside of the pot to conduct the produets of combustion downwards to the base of the stove and
thence to a main draft-flue leading thereout.
4. A direct draft for such stoves as are constructed with
revertible flues, the direct daft being obtained by a flue
passing out above the fire-pot, and provided with a damper
to,be closed after the fuel has been ignited.
5. Holes or openings in the iron case of the stove in which
to put plates.of mica so as to let the fire in the stove be seen

o0 t. 1873.]1

HAILES V. VAN- WORMER.
Opinion of the court.

through it, and to give light to the room in which the
stove is.
In the defendant's stove, however; there was no such peculiar structure of the lower extremity of thesupply reservoir, nor such a closed expansion-chamber as in the complainant's stove; the reservoir did not rest on the fire-pot;
nor had it a comection either with it or with the sides of"
the stove; nor was there anything interposed to the passage
of the products of combustion up and around the reservoir
when the flue for direct draft was open; and when that flue
was closed the flame was not detained over the burning coal,
but the products of combustion passed directly across the
edge of the fire-pot and descended along its sides to the interior draft-passage.
So, in the defenfdant's stove, the entire spade ardund the
magazine And the fire-pot was'cornpletely inclosed. There
was but a single chamber around. the reservoir over the surface of the burning coal and around.the fire-pot. -1Throiigh
this chamber the products of combustion passed, either
through the direct draft-flue, when that was in use, or to the
base of the stove and thence outward.
The.coart below disrniseed tLe bill and the complainant
brought the ease here.
Mr.B. Hl. Bennett, for the appellant; ir. C. X. Keller, for
the appellee.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The sort of stoves known as "base-burners," or self-feeding'stoves, had been maile and they were well known years
befbre either of the complainants' p'atents vere granted, and
it is not asserted that merely as base-burning stdves theyvare
within the monopoly of the pateiits, The inventions clainied
are alleged inprovements in the structu re -and arrallgenieut
of such stoves. They coisist in what is describ.ed as a new
combinafion.-of- old and known devices producilg a new
man ufietl-e;-nariiely, -stove uniting in itself allthe advantages of a,reservoir stove, and those of a re'vertible-draft

HAILES V. VAN WORMER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

stove which prevents the products of the combustion in the
fire-pot from passing up, around, and over the reservoir,
thereby heating the fuel therein so as to expel its gases, and
cause their explosion as well as their escape into the apartments where the stove may be placed. All the-devices of
which tbe alleged combination is m'ade are confessedly old.
No claim is made for any one of them singly, as an indepenident invention.
It must be conceded that a new combination, if it produces
new and useful results, is patentable, though all the constituent8 of the combination were well known and in conmon use before the combination was made. But the results
must be a product of the combination, and not a mere aggregate of several results each the coiaplete product of onie of
the combined elements. Combined results'are not necessarily a novel result, nor are they an old result obtained in a
new and improved manner. Merely bringing old devices
into juxtaposition, and there allowing each to work out its
own effect without the production of something novel, is not
invention. No one by bringing together several old devices
without producing a new and useful'result the joint product
of the elements of the combination and something more than
an aggregate of old results, can -acquire a right to prevent
others from using the same devices, either singly or in other
combinations, or, even if a new and useful result is obtained,
can prevent others from using- some of the devices, omitting
others, in combination.
If now we examine the patents held.by the complainants,
looking first at the objects sought to be obtained by the
combinations for which the patents iwere granted, they are,
as described in the specification, first, to prevent the passage
of te products of combustion up, around, and over the top
of the coal-supply reservoir, so as to heat a surrounding
jacket thereof; and, secondly, to heat a circulating or ascending body df air by means of radiated heat from the firepot, and at the same tine to heat the base of the stove by
means or direct heat circulating through descending floes
which lead into the ash-pit, or around it, and to the smoke

Oct. 1873.]

HAILES V. VAN WORMER.

"369

Opinion of the court.

and draft flue. A third avowed object is to secure economy
by retarding the fall of the coal into the fire-pot from thesupply reservoir, and by causing the flame to circulate outside of the contracted discharge of the reservoir, and around
the upper edge of the fire-pot, and thence to descend around
or under the base of the stove in its passage to the smoke
ana draft flue. Such are the avowed objects of the combinations claimed to have been devised by the patentees, And
their effects they assert to be husbanding the radiated heat,
and using it for the piP'pose of warming the upper pa't of
the stove and the room in whichl it is situated, as well as for
heating air for warming rooms'above, if desirable, and at
the same time so confining the direct fire heat, and keeping
it in cont.act with the base portion of the"stove as to insure
warmi ng it to a comfortable degree. A second effect claimed
is relief of the incandescent coal from the weight of the body
of superincumbent coal,'thus preventing the compression of
the burning coal, in the fire-pot, and securing for the flame
'free expansion, thus enabling it to act with greater heating,
effect upon the lower portion of the stove in its passage to*
the smoke and draft flue.
The combination. employed to produce these effects consists of the following devices, anioq-g offiers:
1st. A flaring fire-pot supported by a base,"the, diameter
of the pot being larger at the top than at the bottom.
2d. A magazine or reservoir for supplying coal, located
over the fire-pot, and having its lower end. contracted.
I 3d. Revertible passages or flues outside of the pot for-the
conduct of the products of combustion downwards to the
base of the stove and thence to a main draft flue leading
thereout.
4th. A direct draft for such stoves as are constructed with
revertible flues, the direct di'aft being obtained by a ffiie
passing ofit above the fire-pot and provided with a damper
to be closed after the fuel has been ignited.
5th. Openings in the case or exterior of the stove and the
insertion of mica therein for the purpose of illuminating the
VOL. XX.

24

ITAILES V. VAN

WORMER.

[SLIP. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

room in which the stove may be with thelight of the burning fuel.
These devices with others are brought together and claimed
as a new combiuiation, and several combinations of some of
them are also claimed as inventions, producing novel and
.useful results. What those other devices are we need not
specify, for it is not shown that they are emploed by the
defendants.
The stove of the defendints does,.however, contain all
those mentioned and contain them iii combination. That
each of theft was an old device, well known, and Inpublic use
before the patents of thenomplainants were granted is abundantly proved by the evidence submitted. A flaring fire-pot,
a supply regervoir with its lower extremity of smaller diameter than its upper, revertible flues, a place for flame expansion
above the fire-pot, the addition of a direct draft for use in
igniting the fuel, provided with a damper, and the insertion
of mica for illumination openings, were all found in stoves
befo'e Hailes and Treadwell claimed to have made their invention. It is true there is a peculiarity in the'construction
nf the lower extremity of the complainants' supply resevoir.
.L.
is provided with a circular flange, extending outward and
bending downward, so as to fit upon the upper rim of the
fire-pot, and thus form a closed combustion-chamber. This,
of course, cuts off communication with the space around
the upper part of the reservoir, and confines the flame and
other products of combustion within a circular combustionehamber thus formed, leaving no outlet for them'except
through ear passages into revertible flues. For this device,
the peculiar structure of the reservoir, and the formation of
the closed expansion chamber, there is no equivalent in the
.defendants' stove. There is no such closed-chamber. The
reservoir does not rest on, the fire-pot. It has no connection.
with it, or with the sides of te stove. Nor is there a.ny obstacle interposed to the passage of the products of combus'tion, up and around the rhservoir when the flue for direct
d-raft is open. Anid when that flue is closed, the flame is
not detained over the burning coal, but the products of

-o6t. 1873.]

HAILES V. V N WORMERt
Opinion of the court.

combustion pass directly across the edge of the fiife- ot und
descend along the sides thereof to the infe- ior draft-passage,
Such an avrangemet is not fitted to 'produce the effects
sought and. claimed for 'the complainants' stoves. On the
contrary, itplainly excludes them.
There are other differences in the devices used both in
the complainan ts' and tJhe defendants' stoves, which we think
are substantial, and not meeely formal. The combination.
claimed by the complainants passes the products ofcomnbustion out of the chamber through perfoirations in the flange
or through ears ibto flues leading downwards but wholly.
exterior to the fire-pot, and not iii contact with it. This
arrangement makes it possible to introduce external air
through perforations in the outer casing of the stote, and
allow it wheu heated by contact with- the fire-pqf and tle
deseendifg flues to escape from the top. Accordinglytlie
outer casing is peifo,'ated, aid there is i1o closed magazine
around the fire-pot. But in the.defendants' stove there is no
such device and -no such effects are produced. There are nq
external downward flues separated from the fire-pot. The
whole space around the magazine and the fire-pdt is completely inclosed. There.is but a single chamber around the
reservoir,'over the surface of the burning coal, and around
the fire~pot. Thro-ughthis chamber the products of combhuition- pass, either through the direct draft-flue ivhen that is'
in *use, or to the base of the, stove and thence outwards.
This arrangement also excludes the possibility of an effect
claimed for the Hailes and Treadwell invention. It-admits
of no space around the fire-pot to which the external air can
have access.
It is not, then, the combination of old devices which'the
defendahts use that Hailes -und Treadwell iniented. It is
not those old devices that produce the new results 'laimed.
The complainants' combination is a different thing. It had
a 'greater number of constituent elements. Itconsists in the,
employment of the devices used by the defendants, together
with others they do not use, and the result of the entire
combination is the production of a stove differing very ma-:

HAILES V.

VAN "WORMER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

terially from that of the defendants. And the defendants'
combination cannot produce the results claimed for that' of
the complainants. We have said that the new results claimed,
whatever they -may be, are not the, production of the combined -devices common to both stoves. The devices used by
the defendants produce no new effects, because used in combination. The space around the fire-pot leading to the base
doubtless secures the beneficial results long kno vn to follow
the use of rever-tible flues. It may be conceded to be an
equivalent for such 'flues. But the results of its construction
are not changed by thefact that a flaringfire-pot, and a supply reservoir with a contracted discharge end, and openings
for ill umination are used in the same stove. It still operates
to conduct the products of combustion to the base,,and into
the exit flue. No new operation is given to it by the combination. The same may be said of every other device
employed by the defendants which is also in the complainants' combination. Each produces its appropriate effbct unchanged by the others. That effect has no relation to the
combination; in no sense can it be called its product. Thus
far nothing novel is produced. This, then, is mere aggregation of devices, not invention, and consequently the use
of those devices, either- singly or together, cannot be held
to be any infringement of rights belonging to the complainants.
IWe-pass now to consider more in detail the claims in the
complainants' patents which it is alleged the defendants
have infringed. The first in the reissued patent, dated February 3d, 1863, is unquestionaly too broad to be sustained,
unless fimited to the means described in the specification.,
So it was doubtless'intended by the patentees to be limited,
for fhe claim speaks of the combination claimed "as substantially described," that is, described in the specification.
Thus limited, one of its essential elements is a closed cornbustion-chamber over the fire-pot, formed by a flange of the
reservoir resting on the upper edge of the pot, and provided
with perforations or ears connecting with two flues passing
.downwards. This elemelit is indispensable for the purposes

Oct. 1873.]

HAILES V. VAN WoRM ER.
Opinion of the court.

asserted in the claim, as well as in the specification. APa
the peculiar str:ucture of the chamber is more than formal.
It is functional.. It prevents the passage of the flame and
other products of combustion up, around, and. over the supply reservoir, which is a leading avowed object of the invention,'precisely the improvement patented..

But this con-

stituent of the combination the defendants have neer used;
nor have they used .any corresponding device, or device
producing the same results.
The second claim is for contracting the discharge end of
the coal-supply reservoir, -expanding the fie-pot, and-extending the flame passage downward for united operation in 'a
base-burning coal-supply reservoir stove or furnace, essentially as set forth. The means set'forth for extending the
flime passage doivnwards are perforations through the flange
forming the lateral boundary bf the closed combustion-chambler, or ears leading thereoutand. 6lose flues extending. from
the ears or perforatioiis downward at some distance from the
fire-pot through. a space bounded on one side by' the fire-pot
and on' the other by an -outer ca.sing of the stove perforated
for 'the admission of external air. It might, perhaps, b'e
questioned whethei' there is any device in the defendants'
stove dorresponding to this,-but waiving the -consideration"
of that question, it is very evident that the combination, of
the three devices named is iot the work of invefition. They
have'no relation to each other. Neither the form, of the
feeder, nor the shape of the fire-pot bears at all upon the
direction of the draft passages.' Tlere is' no novel re'sul't
flowing from the joint operationof the three devices* Th'e
revertible flues have no more to.do with a stove supplied
by a feeder than they would have with a*stove'snppli~d by
hand. There is, therefore, nothing in this daim-that interferes with what the defendants have done.
An essential element of the combinations 'rdenti6ned in
both the'thiird and fourth claims is the closed combustionchamber formed, in part-by a circular, flange extending outward and Qlosing on the top of the fire-pot, with perfofations
in it, or ears for connection with the downward flues, or it is

HAILES V. VAIN WORMER."

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

chamber to
those perforations or ears leading out of such
'the descending passages. These deviees the defendants do
not employ, ahd they cannot- be used in the defendants'
st6ve. There has been, therefore. no infringement of these
claims.
The fifth claim is the only remaining one contained in the
reissue which the defendants are alleged to have invaded.
It is constructing the fire-pot of a base-burning stove with
an imperforated circumference and in the form of a trumpet
mouth at its upper extremity, in combination with descending flame passages, substantially as described, and for the
purposes set forth. How in combination'? As described in
the specification, united by means of 'pei'forated flanges' or
ears of the pot, involving, of course, the presence of a closed
combustion-chamber constructed substantially as already
described. Construing the claim thus, as we thitik it must
be construed, the defendants have been guilty of no infringe-.
ment,
Passing now to the second patent, issued August 11tb,
1868, we observe that its first claim was for a combination
of the illumination openings, flame-expansion chamber, coalsupply reservoir, fire-pot, descending-flue and draft-flue, substantially in the manner and for the purpose described. In,
the main this is the same combination-as that claimed in the
reissued patent we have had under consideration. The only
change is the addition of illumination openings. These were
a well-known device applied to stoves long bMfore either of
the patents were granted. They perform no peculiar office
in the new combination. They have no possible relation to
it. They' do not affect, in the slightest degree, the results
of that combination, whatever they may be. It is impossible
to' regard the mere addition of such openings to a stove containing the improvements described in the reissued patent,
as the formation, of a new patentable combination. It is
not invention. If, however, it were, the defendants have
not trespassed upon it, for of the combination the peculiarly
formed close expansion chamber is an essential constituent,
and that is not found in the defendants' stove.

Oct. 1874.]

FERRIS V. HIGLEY.

875

Statement of the case.

'Similar remarks, might be made respecting the seeond
claim of the.patent of August, the only yemaining one
alleged to hav6 been infringed. All the- elements of the,
cqmbination have not been used by the defendants.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

This case was argued befoie the CHIEF JUSTICE took
his seat, and he- did not participate:in the judgment.

FERRIS V. HIGLEY.
1. The act of Congress under wbicbUtah was organized as a Territory pro"videdfor a Supreme Court, District Courts, Probate Courts, and justices
* of the peace, and d.istributed the judicial power among them.
2. It gave to the Supreme and'District Courts a general jurisdiction at com-'
. mon law hnd in.chancery, and limited add defined the powers of the,
justiceh of the peace.
3: It declared that the egislative power should extend to all rightful subjects of legislation not incbnsistent with the Constitution oT the United
States or with the organic nt.
4. The act of tfie Terriiorial legislature conferring on the Probate,Cotirts d
general jurisdiction.in civil" and criminal cases, and both in -chancery.
and at common law, is inconsistent with ihe organic act, and'i.'tbherefore, void.

to' fhe Supreme

Court of .the Tritpry of Utah'.
The case, which involved a questi4). a io the urisdiction
of the Probate Courts of Utah, was thus:
'In 1850 6Cngress passed an act "to'establish.' Territorial
government for Utah;" the organic act governuigthe Territory.* The act !s'a long act, 'of seventeen sections. It
defines the boundaries of Utah.; establisbeis an excdutive'power and defines its duties; pro.vides for a secretary of the
Territory and defines his duties. It establishes also a legi.
lative, po-wer; declares of whom it shall be ',drnpofed,and
,ERROR

Act of' September 9th- 1850; 9 Stat. at Large, 453..

