Oct. 1873.]

UNITED STATES V. HERRON.
Statement of the case.

pleading, will, deed, or contract, is as effectual as what is
expressed.*
The proceedings touchifig the sale were pr~perly admitted
in evidence, and the instruction given to the jury upon the
subject was correct.
The last assignment of error relates to fraud in obtaining
the order of sale.
It seems to us that the evidence disclosed in the record
was hardly sufficient to raise any question upon that subject.
However that may be, the instruction given to the jury was
unexceptionable, and the plaintiffs in error have no right to
complain.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. HERRON.
1. A debt due to the United States, though it be by one v.hp owes it as a
surety only, is not barred by the debtor's discharge with certificate, under
the Bankrupt Act-of 1867; although the United State& may prove its
debt and has priority of other creditors; and though the act provides, in
general terms, that the certificate shall release the bankrupt "from aU
debts, claims, liability, and demands, which were or might have been
- proved against his estate in bankruptcy," and that it may be pleaded
"as a full and complete bar of any such debts, claims, liabilities, or demands."
2. No general words in a statute divest the government of its rights or
remedies.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana;
the case being thus:
The Bankrupt Act of 1867-which in is general outlines,
as in many of its details, follows (as did prior Bankrupt Acts
of the United States passed in 1800 and 1841), the British
Bankrupt Acts-enacts that a discharge duly granted under
the act shall, with the exceptions of debts' created by the
* United States v. Babbit, 1 Black, 61.

UNITED STATES V. HERRON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

fraud or embezzlement of the bankrupt or by his defalcation
as a public officer, or while acting in any fiduciary character,
"release the bankrupt from all debts, claims, liabilities, hInd demands which were or might have been proved against his estate in
bankr-uptcy, and may be pleaded . .'.as a full and complete
bar to all suits brought on any such debts, claims, liabilities,
or dclands."*
Under the act the United States may prove its debt, and
it has a priority given to it by the act. But it is not mentioned by name as among the creditors whose debts will be
released by the certificate which the act authorizes.
This statute being in force the United States brought suit
on a bond executed by one Collins, as principal, and Herron
and others as sureties. ilerron pleaded a discharge under
the said Bankrupt Act, and the question, of course, was
whether a discharge under the act barred a debt due to the
government.
The court below thought that it did, and gave judgment
in favor of Herron, whereupon the government brought the
case here.
lr. C. 1H. Hill, Assistant Attorney-General, for the United
Slates :
It is a familiar principle that no general words-not even
"the most general that can be devised "-divest the sovereign of his rights or remedies. Nothing short of specific
and express words can do it. This was old law, in Coke's
day, and was asserted by him as such in the Magdalen College
G se.t It has been just assumed by this court, in the Dollar
Savings Bank v. United Skites,t as plain and as equally applicable to this government, .. . " applied frequently in the
different States, and practically in the Federal courts." The
same thing had been decided years ago by this court in
United States v. Knight.§
Applying the principle to the exact matter of the Bankrupt Acts, it has been held from the days of Atkyns down, in
* Chapter 517, "
t 11 Reports, 74.

32, 34; 14 Stat. at Large, 532, 533.
$ 19 Wallace, 239.

14 Peters, 315.

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED

STATES V. IHERRON.

Opinion of the court.

Great Britain (from whose Bankrupt Acts all ours have been
in the main derived), as a matter findeniable, that debts due
the crown were not barred by a discharge under the acts.*
Andl the same was decided three-quarters of a century
ago, in our own country, in the case of United States v. King,t
in the Circuit Court of the United States as then organized
under the Judiciary Act of Mr. Adams; an able tribunal,
composed of Mr. Justice Tilghman, afterwards eminent as
chief justice of Pennsylvania; Mr. Justice Griffith, one of
the most honored lawyers of New Jersey ;t and Mr. Justice
Bassett, well known in the annals of Delaware.
The matter in short is too perfectly settled and plain for
more argument. The error of the court below is palpable.
No opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Proceedings in bankruptcy are deemed to be commenced
from the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, either by a
debtor in his own behalf or by any creditor against a debtor;
and if it appear to the court that the bankrupt has in all
things conformed to the requirements of the Bankrupt Act,
it is made the duty of the court to grant him a certificate,
under the seal of the court, that he be -forever discharged
from all debts and claims that by said act are provable
against his estate, which existed on the day the petition for
adjudication was filed, excepting such debts, if any, as: are
by said act excepted from the operation of a discharge in
bankruptcy.§
With the exception of the debts specified in the thirtythird section, the act provides that a discharge duly granted
under the act shall refease the bankrupt from all debts,
claims, liabilities, and demands which were or might have
been proved against his estate in bankruptcy.
* Anonymous, 1 Atkyns, 262; Rex v. Pixley, Bunbury, 202;. Craufurd v.
Attorney-General, 7 Price, 5.

t Wallace's Circuit Court, 18.
14 Stat. at Large, 533.

1 Wallace's Repo., Tte-s, 839, 340.

UNITED STATES

v.

HERRON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Collectors of internal revenue taxes are required by law
to give bond for the fhithful discharge of their duties, and
the record shows that Lewis Collins, having-been duly appointed to that office for the third district of Louisiana, gave
the required bond, and that the present defendant was one
of his sureties. Default having been made by the principal,
the United States brought an action of debt on his official
bond, joining all the sureties with the principal.
They alleged two breac4ies, as follows: (1.) That the principal did not pay over all the public moneys he received for
the use and benefit of the plaintiffs.- (2.) That he did not
do and perform all such acts and things as were required of
him by the Treasury Department.
Service was made and the defendant appeared and pleaded,
as a peremptory exception, that on the thirtieth day of May,
1868, he filed his petition in the District Court to be adjudged a bankrupt, and that the court, on the eighteenth
of January following, in due course of law, granted him a
discharge under the provisions of the Bankrupt Act, in the
words and figures set forth in the record, which, as he
alleges, is a full and complete bar to the plaintiff's demand.
Hearing was had and the court awarded judgment for the
defendant and the plaintiffs sued out a writ of error and removed the cause into this court. Since the case was entered
in this court the plaintiffs assign for "errorthat a discharge
under the Bankrupt law does not bar a debt due the United
States.
1. Debts created by the fraud or embezzlement of the
bankrupt, or by his defalcation as a public officer, or while
acting in any fiduciary character, are not discharged by the
certificate required to be given to the bankrupt by the thirtysecond section of the Bankrupt Act, nor will any such certificate release, discharge, or affect any person liable for the
same debt for or with the bankrupt, either as partner, joint
contractor, indorser, surety, or otherwise. Such debts, that
is, debts created by the fraud or embezzlement of the bankrupt, or by his defalcation as a public officer, or as a fiduciary
agent, may be proved, and the dividend thereon, it is pro-

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED STATES v. HERRON.
Opinion of the court.

vided, shall be a payment on account of said debt, but the
provision that no such certificate shall release, discharge, or
affhct any person liablq for the same debt, for or with the
bankrupt as surety, does not apply to this .case, as it is the
surety here who pleads the certificate of discharge, and not
the principal in the bond set forth in the declaration.*
Instead of that, the question presented by the assignment
of error in this court must depend upon other provisions of
the Bankyupt Act, when properly construed, in view of the
settled rule of construction that the sovereign authority of
the country is not bound by the words of a statute unless
named theriein, if the statute tends to restrain or diminish
the powvers, rights, or interests of the sovereign."
Where an act of Parliament is made for the public good,
as for the advancement of religion and justice, or to prevent
injury and wrong, the king is bound by such act, though
not particularly named.therein; but where a statute is general, and thereby any prerogative, right, title, or interest is
divested or taken from the king, in such case the king is
not boundi unless the statute is madetp extend to him by
:express words.'J
Acts of Parliament, says Chitty,§ which would divest or
abridge the king of his pirerogatives,. his interest, or his
remedies, in the slightest degree, do not in general extend to
or bind the king,'unles§ there be express words to that effect.
The'efore, says the *ame learned anthor, the statutes of limitation, bankruptcy, insolvency, set-off, &c., are irrelevant in
the case of the king, nor do-s the -statute of frauds relate to
him, which last proposition is doubted by high authority.
Exceptions exist to 'that rule undoubtedly. as where the
statute is passed for the Zgeneral advancement of learning,
morality, and justice, of"to prevent fraud, injury, and wrong,
14 Stat. at Large, 533; United States v. Davis, 3 McLean, 483
t- Anonymous, 1 Atkyns, 262, Rex v. Earl; Bunbury,*33; Rex v. Pixley,
Id. 202.
18 Bacon's Abridgment by Bouvier, title , "Prerogative," E 5; United
States v. Knight, 14 Peters, 315
On Prerogative, 883; 19 Viner's Abridgment, title, "Statute," E. 10.

UNITED STATES V.. HERRON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion,of the court.

or where an act of Parliament gives a new estate or right to
the king, as in that case it will bind him as to the manner'
of enjoying or using the estate or right as well as the subject.
Debts due to the United States, it is expressly provided,
.shall be entitled to preference or priority over all other
claims except the claims for fees, costs, and expeiises of suits
and other proceedings under the Bankrupt Act, and for the
custody of the bankrupt's property.
Five classes of claims are recognized as claims entitled to
priority or preference by the twenty-eighth section of the
Bankrupt Act, and the provision is. that they shall "be first
paid in full in the following order:" First, fees, costs,-and
expenses; second, all tdebts due to the United States and
Federal taxes and assessments; third, all debts due to the
State in which the proceedings in bankruptcy are pending,
and all State taxes and assessments; fourth, wages due to
any operative, clerk, or house servant, to an amount not exceeding fifty dollars, for labor performed within the period
,therein specified; fifth, all debts due to any persons who,
by the laws of the United States, are or may be entitled fo
a priority or preference, in like manner as if the act had not
bden passed.
Attempt is made in argument to show that the prererence
given to debts of the United States does not exclude such
debts from the operation of the certificate of discharge, because such debts are not named in the proviso annexed to
the description of the fifth class of claims entitled to priority
and full payment in preference to generl creditors, but the
court is not able to concur in that proposition, as it is quite
clear that the proceedings in bankruptcy would very much
embarrass tax collectors without some saving clause in that
behalf, and to that end it was provided that " nothing contained in this act shall interfere with the assessmeht and
collection of taxes by the authority of the United States or
any State." Consequently taxes, whether Federal or State,
may,be collected in the ordinary mode, but if not collected
and the property of the bankrupt passes to and is administered by the assignee, the taxes'are then entitled to the pri-

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED STATES V. HER-RON.
Opinion of the court.

ority and preference provided in the.sarhe section of the
Bankrupt Act. Nothing, therefore, can be -inferred fromthat proviso inconsistent with the proposition ,tht thelsovei eign authority is not bound by the provisions of the Bankrupt Act, unless 'therein named.
riot named in any of the
-Confessedly the United States 'is
provisions 9 f thb act providing for the discharge of the bahkrupt from his debts, nor in any of the required proceedings
which lead to that result, unless it call be held that the soy-,
ereign authority; having debts against fhe bank~upt, is included in the word "' creditor or creditors, ' as used marny
times in the several sections of.the'Bankrupt Act. -Examples
of the kind are numerous, of which the following are some
of the most material:
Persons applying for the benefit of the Banlkupt Act are
required to annex. a schedule'to the petition, verified by oath,
con-taining a full and true statement of all their debts, and,
as far Ps possible, to whom due, with the place of residence
of each creditor, if known to the debtor, and if not known
the fact must be so stated, and the sum due to each, and the
nature of each debt or demand, whether founded on written
sequrity, obligation, contradt, or otherwise, and also the true
cahse 6r consideration of such indebtedness in each case, and
the place where such indebte'dness accrued, and a.statement
of any existing mortgage, pledge; lien; judgment, or collateral or other security given for the payment- of "the same.
Where- the debts exceed three hundred dollars it is the
duty of the judge to issue a warrant, directed to the marshal,
authorizing him to publish notices in such newspapers as
the warrant specifies, and to serve written or printed notices
on all creditor§ whose names are included in the schedule
or whose names may be given to him in addition by the
debtor, and to give such personal or other notice as the
directions of the warrant require. (1.) That a warrant in
bankruptcy has been issued against t he estate of the debtor.
(2.) That the pa:'ment of any debts or the delivery of any
property belonging to such debtor to him or the transfer of
any property by him are forbidden by law. (3.) That a
VOL. xx.

17

UNITED STATES V.

HERRON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

meeting of the creditors of the debtor will be held at a court
of bankruptcy to be holden at the time desionated in the
warrant.
Due notice to the creditors in that regard is .indispensable,
as the provision is that if it be not given the meeting shall
be adjourned and a new notice given as required. Assignees
of the estate of the debtor ire to be chosen by the'creditors
at their first meeting. Creditors not only appoint the assi gnee or assignees but, in certain cases and under certain
conditions, they may remove any assignee, and vacancies in
certain cases may be filled by the creditors, as pr6vided in
the eighteenth section of the act. Debts due and payable
from the bankrupt, at the time lie is adjudged as such, And
all debts then existing, but not payable until a future day, a
rebate of interest being made, when no ,interest is payable
by the terms of the contract, may be proved against the
estate of the bankrupt. Contingent debts and liabilitiesof
the bankrupt may also be claimed by creditors, and such
claims may be allowed, with the right to share in the dividends, if the contingency shall happeii before the order for
the final dividend. When a creditor has a mortgage or
pledge of real or personal property of the bankrupt, or a
lien thereon for securing the payment of a debt owing to
him fron the bankrupt, he shall be admitted as a creditor
only for the balance bf the debt. No creditor'proving his
debt shall be allowed to maintain any suit at law or in equity
therefor against the bankrupt. Resident creditors are requ'ired to "make proofs before one of the registers of the
court in the district where the proceedings are pending, but
all such proofs, in behalf of non-resident creditors, may be
made before a commissioner or before a register in the judicial district where the creditor resides, and corporations may
verify their claims by the oath or affirmation of their president, cashier, or treasurer.
Claims against the estate of the bankrupt are required to
be signed by the claimant and to be verified by his oath, and
the requirement also is that the assignee shall register, in a
book to be kept by him for the purpose, the names of the

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED STATES V. HERRON.

259

Opinion of the court.

creditors who have proved their claims, in the order in
which such proof is received, stating the time of its receipt
and the amount and nature of the debt. Claimants are forbidden to accept any preference, and the provision is that if
any one does so, contrary to the prohibition of the act, he
shall not prove the delbt or claim, nor shall he receive any
dividend until he shall first have surrendered to the assignee
all property, mon'ey, benefit, or advantage received by him
under such preference.
Preferences are forbidden in order that equal distribution
may be efphcted, and the act provides that all creditors,
whose debts are duly proved and allowed, s.hall be entitled
to share in the bankrupt's property and estate pro rata, without any Priority or preference whatever, except that wages
due from the bankrupt to any operative or clerk or hoplse
servant, to an amount not exceeding fifty dollars, for labor
performed within six months next "preceding the adjudication of bankruptcy, shall be entitled to priority and shall be
first paid in full. Annexed to that clause there is also a
proviso that any-debt proved by any person liable as bail,
surety, guarantor, or otherwise for the bankrupt, shall not
be paid to the person so proving the same until satisfactory
evidence shall be produced of the payment of such debt by
such person so liable.
Just and true accounts are to be kept by the assignees,
and they are to make full report of the same to the creditors
at a meeting to be'icalled for the purpose, and the creditors
are to determine whether any and what part of the net proceeds of the estate shall be distributed as a dividend, and if
the creditors order a dividend it is made the duty of the
assignee to prepare a list of the creditors entitled, to the
same, and to compute and set opposite to the name of each
creditor the dividend to which he is entitled out of the net
proceeds of the estate set apart for that purpose. Preparatory to the final dividend the assignee shall submit his
account to the court and file the same, and give notice to
the creditors of such fiing, and shall also give notice that
he will apply for a flual settlement of his account.

UNITED STATES V. HERRON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Application for a discharge from his debts ma' be made
by the bankrupt, as provided in the twenty-ninth section of
the act, and the provision is that the court shall thereupon
order notice to be given to the creditors, as therein specified,
to appear, on a day appointed for that purpose, and show
cause why a discharge to the applicant should not be
granted.
Insolvent debtors may also, in certain cases, be adjudged
bankrupts on the petition of one or more of their creditors.
Matters necessary to be alleged in such a petition are specifically set forth in the Bankrupt Act, which provides that
if the facts alleged are found to be true the court shall forthwith make the required adjudication and issue a warrant to
take possession of the estate of the lebtor, which shall be
directed as in the former case, and the property of the debtor
shall be taken thereon and be assigned and distributed in
the same manner and with similar proceedings to those pro.
vided for taking possession, assignment, and distribution of
the property of the debtor upon his own petition.
Sufficient appeai's from this summary of the proceedings
required under the Bankrupt Act to establish two pi'opositions beyond all doubt or cavil: (1.) That the'United States
are not named in any of the provisions of the act except the
one which provides that all debts due to the United States
and all taxes and assessments under the laws thereof s'hall
be entitled to priority or preference, as heretofore fully explained. (2.) That many of the provisions describing the
rights, duties, and obligations of creditors are in their nature
inapplicable to the United States, and that if held to include
the United States, could not fail to become a constant and
irreniediable source of public inconvenience and embarrassment.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, and of the language employed in the act, the court is of the opinion that
the words "creditor or creditors," as used in the several
provisions of the Bankrupt.Act, do not include the United
States.
Twice before, since the Federal Constitution was adopted,

Oct. 1873.]

U1NITED STATES

v.

HERRON.

Opinion. of the court.

the Congress has enacted similar, laws, and it is matter of
history that the 'framework of those acts, as well as much of
their details, was drawn from the various acts of Parliament
upon the same subject; and the remark is equally applicable
to the principal features of the act under consideration, in
respect to all the parts of the same, whose construction is
involved in the case before the court. Such acts of Parliament have n~ver, in terms, included debts due to the sovereign of -the country; and the decisions.of the courts of
Westminster Hall, for more than a century, have held, without an e_ eeption, that such acts or the proceedings under
the same do not discharge debts due to the crown.*
Text writers also, of the highest authority, have uniformly
promulgated the same rule. Speaking of the order of discharge, Deacon says,t it does not release the bankrupt from
a debt due to the crown, for as the crown is not bound by
any statute unless specifically named, and crown debts not
being mentioned among those of the creditors in general, in
any part of the statute relating to the proof of debts or the
certificate of discharge, the crown of course will not be
barred of the peculiar privileges it possesses for the recovery
of its own debts.
Nor does the Bankrupt Act impair or supersede the laws
for the collection of taxes, and that rule also is founded upon
the same canon of construction, to wit, that the crown is not
bound by the bankrupt laws, and, therefore, says Shelfordj
the appointment of assignees does not relate to the act of
bankruptcy as against the crown process, but the bankrupt's
personal property is bound under an extent even when tested
subsequently to the appointment of the assignees. To which
he adds, that the bankrupt's certificate is no discharge as
,against.the crown.§
Such a certifidate, says Robson,.I will not release the bankrupt from any debt or liability incurred by means of any
Attoiney-Gendral v. Alston, 2 Modern, 248; Anonymous, I Atkyns, 262,
t On Bankruptcy, vol. 1 (3d edition), 784; Rex v. Pixley, Bunbury, 202.
$ On Bankruptcy, 803..
- Oraufurd v. Attorndy-General, 7 Price, 5.
U On Bankruptcy (2d edition), 558.

'UNITED STATES V.

HERRON.

[Sup. (3t.

Opinion of the court.

fraud, nor from debts due to the crown, nor from debts with
which the bankrupt stands charged at the suit of the crown,
or of any person for any offence against a statute relating to
any breach of the public revenue, or at the suit of the sheriff
or other public officer, on a bail bond entered into for the
appearance of ally person prosecuted for any such offence.
With a single exception, not material in this case, the
views of Cooke are the same as those expressed by Shelford.
He says the crown is not bound by the acts relating to batik-rupts, not being named in them ; therefore an extent served
upon the property of the bankrupt will bind it from' the teste
of the Writ and until the actual assignment of the commissioners, but the king is bound by an actual assignment, because the property is then absolutely transferred toa third
persou.*
Different explanations have beqn given as the reason of
the rule in different adjudications, bilt perhaps there is none
more satisfactory than the original one, that the sovereign
is not bound by the act because not named as a creditor in
any of its provisions. But the I'eason for the rule assigned
in a recent decision in the Exchequer Chamber is also entitled to much consideration as supporting the original rule.
Throughout the Bankrupt Acts the word creditor, says Mr.
Justice Blackburn, is used in the sense of a person having
a claim which can be proved under the bankruptcy, to which
he might have added, and one not required by the act to be
paid in full in preference of all other creditors.t
Greater. unanimity of decision in the courts or of views
among text writers can hardly be found upon any important
question than exists in respect to this question in the parent
country, nor is there any diversity of sentiment in our courts,
Federal or State, nor among the text writers of this country.
Perhaps the earliest decision in this country was that
given in the case or UniIed States v. .King,j which was made
almost at the begiining of the present century. In that case
*

Eden on Bankruptcy, 143.

" Woods v. De Alattos, 3 Hurlstone & Coltman, 995.
$ Wallace's Circuit Court, 18.

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED

STATES

v.

iHERRON.

Opinion of the court.

the question was directly presented and was as directly adjudicated, the court holding that debts due to the United States
are not within the provisions of the Bankrupt Act. Other
decisions of like charact'er are found in the State Reports.
It is a maxim of the common law, said Savage, 0. J., that
when an act of Parliament is passed for the public good, as
for the advancement of religion and justice, or to prevent
injury and wron'g, the king shall be bound by such act though
not named, but when a statute is general and any prerogative, right, title, or interest would be div ested or taken from
the king, in Such a case he shall not be bound unless the
statute is made by express words to extend to him, for which
he cites both English and Americai autl orities, and adds,
that the people of the State being sovereign have succeeded
.to the rights of the foimer sovereign, and that the pe.ople
of the State are not bound by the general words in the insolvent law.*
Sanctioned as that puinciple is by two. express decisions
of this court, it would sdem that further discussion of it is
unnecessary, as it has never been questioned by any wellconsidered case, State or Federal, and is founded in the presunption that the legislature, if they intended to divest the
sovereign power of any right, privilege, title, or interest,
would say so in express words; and where the acd contains
no words to express such an intent, that it will be presumed
that the intent does not exist.t
Such a conclusion, to wit, that Congress intended that the
certificate of discharge' given to a bankrupt should include
his liability as a surety for the faithful performance of duty
by a public officer, ought not to be adopted unless such an
intention is expressed in clear alid unambiguous terms,.as
the rule, if established, would, in all probability, lead to
" People v. Herkimer, 4 C6wen, 348; see also Commonwealth v. Hutchinson, 10 Pennsylvania, 466, which is to the same effect; Hilliard on -Bankruptcy (2d edition), 295.
t United States v. Knight, 14 Peters, 315; Dollar Savings Bank v. United
States, 19 Wallace, 239; United States ,.Hoar, 2 Mason, 311; Commonwealth v. Baldwin, 1 Watts, 54.

MCPHAUL v. LAP8LEY.[

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

great loss to the public treasury and to great public embarrassment.*
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the cause remanded with direc-

tions to
ISSUE A NEW VENIRE.

MCPHAUL v. LAPSLEY.
1. An affidavit filed under the act of the legislature of Texas, approved May
13th, 1846,-requiring an affidavit as to the fraudulent character of an
instrument of writing, properly recorded, and filed among thp'papers of
the cause, the purpose of requiring the affidavit being to relieve the
party meaning to offer-the instrument introduced from the burden, after
he has filed it among the papers in the cause, of proving its execution,
unless the other side swear that it is a forgery-is properly rejected
when not filed within the time prescribed by the act.
2. A. testimonio executed, in 1832, by the proper Mexican authorities, of a
power of attorney for the conveyance of lands, is within the recording
acts of Texas.
3. Such a testimonio, under Spanish law,.and the adjudications of the Supreme Court of Texas, is considered as a second original, and of equal
validity with the first, and is admissible in evidence though not recorded.
4. Evidence of a pers on who was not the keeper of the archives, nor in any
way officially connected with the office to which they belonged, and
which was offered to prove that such a testimonio was not a copy of the
protocol (this not being produced), though the witness had in his hand
photographs of certain pages of the protocol which did conform in
other respects than that of signature and date with the testimonio, and
when it was not offered to follow the evidence up in any way, held prop-.
erly rejected; the testimonio being more than forty years old, much
litigation having existed.on .the title made under it; it never having
been previously questioned ; it haiing been received in a former case,
by this pourt, as valid, and important rights having grown up on the
faith of it; and the instrument being now questioned, not by the parties
to it, but b; a defendant setting up a hostile title which he failed to
establish.

ERROR to the Circuit Court- for the Western District of
Texas; the case being thus:
* Regina v. Edwards, 9 Exchequer, 50.

