I'Oct. 1878.]

KEHR V. , SMiTr.

31

Statement of the case.

KIEHR V.

SMITH.

A deed by which a husband, on articles ofseparation between him and his
wife, binds himself to pay, intrust for her, a: ceriain amount of money
(capital), and interest on it till paid, becomes a voluntary settlement if,
before payment is made, the parties ate reconciled make null all the
covenants of the articles of separation, and cohabit again, with an agreement that the settlementf shall stand as agreed on, except that the husband shall not pay interest while he and his wife live together.
A..voluntary settlemept of $7000 cannot be sustained against creditors
where the.person owes $9306, and has, of all sorts of property, the same
being not cash, not more than $16,132.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Missouri.
Smith, assignee of Martin Meyer, a bankrupt, brought a
bill./in equity in the District Court for the Eastern District
of Missouri, to set aside as fraudulent a deed of trust given
by the bankrupt in August, 1'67, to one-Kehr, on a house
and 16t where he lived; and oivned by him; to secure two
promissory notes, of even date with the deed, for $250.0 each,
payable respectively in one and two years from date, with
interest,.which the bankrupt executed to a certain Schaeffer,
as truntee of Clara Meyer, his wife.
The 'ease was thus: In August, 1867, Meyer, a trader in
St. Louis, and his wife agreed to separate, and' entered into
an' agreement for'this purpose. They were'to live separate
from each other without molestation, and the rights given
to one in the articles of separation were secured to the other.
In order that the wife might have sufficient means for her
upport the husband covenanted-with a person named that
he would pay to him, as trustee -for the wife, the sum of
$7000 on the execution of the instrument. In considerationof these and other agreements the frustee and the Wife covenanted with the husband to accept the stipulated sum in
full satisfaction of any claim for maintenance or support,
and also for any claim for alimony or dower in case of the
husband's death. The trustee also covenanted to save the
husband harmless from any debts the wife might contract

32

82

~KEHR
V. S9IITH.[SpCt

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

on his account. No fault was imputed by one tb the other,
but each was left at. liberty, if 'so disposed, to prosecute' an
action for divorce. Two tlousand dollars of the seven was
paid in money to the trustee, and the balance was secured
to be paid by the deed of trust, which was the sul)ject-inatter
of this controversy.
At the tine of this settlement by Meyer'his pecuniary
condition, as. assumed by the District Court, a i eport of
whose opinion in full is given in the reports for the Eighth
Circuit,* was thus:
..
$9,306
He owed,
He had property as follows:
The property charged in favor of his wife, about the
value of which witnesses differed, one valuing it at
$10,500, a sum which, free from all incumbrances,
.
.
$10,500
it brought at public sale,
632
Other real property, at most,.
5,000
Personalty,
$16,132
7,000

Deduct amount settled on his wife,
Leaving to pay all his debts,.

.

.

$9,132

The Circuit Court estimated the real estate charged at
about $2000 more than did the District Court; noting, however,that being the party's honestead, the homestead right
(in Missouri $1000) wai chargeable. on it. The result was,
of course, not much differeit.
After the execution of the deed of separation the parties
separated, but within tw'o avd a half months became reconciled, and, with the trustee, entered into articlesof reconciliation, rescinding the whole of the previous agreement,
except in the matter of the separate estate created by it;
agreed to forget past diftances, and to live together as
husband and wife; it being further agreed that the husband
was not to pay any interest on the notes during their reconciliation." The covenants in the first articles, except in the
particular named, were declared to be void, and each party
* 2 Dillon, 51.

Oct. 1.873.]

K ERR V.

SMITI.

Opinion of the court.

released the other froni any. bi'each of them. A "complete
condonation" was also declared by the new arrangement.
The husband and wife lived together for some four years,
when the tiusbahd left the country, and soon after this he
was declared a bankrupt. Aftef the filing ?f the bill in this
case, the property on which the notes to Mrs. Meyer were
secured was, with the assent of the parties litigant, sold by
'the order of the court, and the right reserved to the parties
toproceed against the-fund. -The question for decision was
whether Mrs. Meyer should hav6'these notes paid to her out
*of the proceeds of this property to the exclusion of the creditors of her husband.
There was some efibrt to prove that Mrs. Meyer had re•ceived from a first husband' estate a considerable amount
of money, which Meyer, who was her second, had received
and used for his .own purposes; 'and that this use of-it by
him was the equitable basis. of the settlement of $7000. The
deed of settlement, however, did not allude to this as a consideration, nor allude to it otherwise, and there was no sufficient proof of the fact that when she m'arried Meyer she
had any property, or that afterwards she ever got any from
any source independently of Meyer himself.
The District Court decreed in favor of the assignee, and
the Circuit Court having affirmed that decree, the wife and
her trustee took this appeal.
Messrs. IV. Meyer, IM.Blair, and F. A. Dick, for the appellant; Mr. S. Knox, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is unnecessary to discuss the question whether the'settlement made, in view of actual separation, could be upheld
or not in the condition of the husband's affairs, because this
case must turn on what occurred afterwards. All, the elements of value which entered int6 the composition of the
first hgreemeut- ceased to exist when the parties became
reconciled. The marital relations were resumed on the
basis of mutual forgiveness for past misconduct, and the
VOL. XX.

3

KEHR V. SMITIL

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

wife became entitled to support from. her husband and to
dower in his estate. These rights of the wife had been relinquished in the first'contract, and this relinquishment was
the only consideration to support it. The withdrawal of the
consideration left the notes without any element of'value in
them, and the execution of the new contract, followed by
cohabitation, placed the parties exactly where they would
have been if there had been no sepalration. The notes thu's
became a voluntary gift, and it can make no difference in
their character that they are reserved as a separate estate to
the wife. It is not a question in the case whether, as between the parties, they could not be enforced. The question
is whether a husband, at the time largely indebted, can
make a voluntary donation or eveu voluntary conveyance to
his wife to the prejudioe of his creditors. An attempt iE
made to show that Meyer received from his wife a consider,
able amount of money obtained- by her from her first husband's estate, and that this formed part of the consideration
of the settlement when they separated; but there is no evidence of any value to prove such a state of things. Besides,
the articles of separation decide this point against the wife,
as no notice is taken of it, and it is hardly possible, if the
fact were as claimed, that on such an occasion it would not
have been mentioned.
In this controversy, therefire, with creditors, the gift must
be treated as purely voluntary; a gift being nothing more
than the tiansfer of property without consideration.
We could not profitably add anything to what has been
.so well said by the district judge in his opinion in this case
on the subject of the indebtedness and property of Meyer at
the time of'the settlement upon his wie. On a careful consideration of the whole evidence we are satisfied that the
value of the property was not materially different from the
estimate he put upon it. If he erred at all in this estimate
it was within a very narrow limit. The- homestead on which
the notes were 'secured wias the only piece of real estate of
any consequence owned by Meyer, and witnesses differed as
to its value, but the opinion of one was sustained by what

Oct. 1873.]

I EHR V). SMITILo

Opinion of the court.

it brought at the sale, which was the criterion of value
adopted by the District Court. In this he may have been
mistaken, but if so, the mistake was within the limits of
$2000, which the Circuit Court thought was about the worth
of the property. Outside of'the homestead the assets of
Meyer were uncertain, but they did not exceed, if they
equalled, the estimate of the District Court. The conclusion
reached by that court, after going into particulars, was that
the estate of Meyer could not have exceeded the sum of
$16,132. Deducting from this the sum of $7000 paid, and
agreed to be paid, to the wife, would leave $9132 to meet
debts confessedly due, amounting t 9 $9306.
Surely the voluntary provision for the wife, in such a. condition of tbings, is not sustainable against existing Credito'rs.
Nor can it be supported oV the theory that the whole estate
was worth a few thousand dollars more. Suippose it was,
there would still be that extent of embarrassment, which
would have a direct tendency to impair the rights of creditors.
n such a case a presumption of constructive fraud is
created, no matter What the motive which prompted the
settlement. Meyer was not oirly largely indebted for a persoit in his situation, but it is easy to see it would have been
close work for his creditors to have made their debts, if they
had tried to enforce their collection by judicial, process, a
surer way of ascertaining the real worth of the property than
by the opinions of indifferent persons, as experienie has
proved that this kind of testiniony is often unreliable on such
a subject. The ancient rule, that a voluntary post-nuptial
'settlement can be avoided, if there was some indebtedness
existing, has been relaxed, and the rule generally adopted in
this country at the present time, will uphold it, if it be reasonable, not disproportionate to the husband's means, taking
into view his debts and situation, and clear of any intent,
actual or constructive, to defradd .creditors.*
Testing this settlement by this rule, it must be taken to
"See the note to Sexton v. Wheaton, 1 American Leading Cases, 5th edition, page 37, where the law on this subject is fully considered.

86

PACIFIc RAILROAD COMPANY V. MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.
be in bad faith towards existing creditors, as, clearly, it was
out of all proportion to the means of the husband, considering his state and condition, and seriously imliairs his ability
to respond to the demands of his creditors.
It is well settled, where a deed is set aside as void as to existing creditors, that all the creditors, prior and subsequent,
share in the fund pro rabc.*
We have cousidered the contract in this case as if it were
executed, because no point is made by the respondents that
it is executory, and the case has been argued by both sides
on the theory that the law applicable to an executed contract
of this sort applied to the one in controversy. It may well
be doubted whether in any case a mere promise by the husband, without considerittion, to pay money to the wife at a
future time, can be enforced against the claims of creditors.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

PAOIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY V. MAGUIRE.
1. The twelfth section of the act of the Missouri legislature, passed December
25tbh, f'852, by which it was declared that"The Pacific Railroad shall be exempt from taxation until the same shall be
completed, opened, and in operation, and shall declare a dividend, when the
road-bed, buildings, machinery, engines, cars, and other property of such completed rosJ, shall be subject to taxation at the actual cash value thereof:
".Provided, That if said company, shall fail, for the period of two years after
said roads respectively shall be completed and putin operation, to declare a
dividend, that then said company shall no longer be exempt from the payment
of said tax-"

created a contract that, subject to the proviso, the railroad should not
be taxed.
iqlagawley's Trust, 5 De Gex & Smales, 1; Richardson v. Smallwood,
Jacob, 552-558; Savage v." Iurphy, 34 N w. York, 508; Iley v. Niswanger,
Harper's Equity, 295; Robinson v. Stewart, 10 New York (6 Selden), 1 9;
Thompson v. Dougherty, 12 Sergeant & Rawle, 448, 455, 458; Hoke v.
1enderson, 3 Devereux, 12-14; Kissam v. Edmundson, 1 Iredell's Equity,
180; Sexton v. WVheaton, 1 American Leading Case4, 45; Norton v. Norton,
5 Cushing, 529; O'Daniel vc.Crawford, 4 Devereux, 197-204; Reade v. Livingston, 3 Johnson's Chancery, 481-4.99; Townshend v. Windham, 2 Vesey,
10; Jenkyn v.Vaughan, 3 Drewry, 419-424.

