Oct. 1874.]

TITUS V. UNITED STATES.
Statement or the case.

TITUS V. UNITED STATES.
1. An informer does not acquire a, right to-a moiety under the Confiscation
Act (if August 6th, 1861, in regard to land informed against, after a
complete title to the property has been acquired by conquest. [In the
present case the information was filed July 17th, 186, the rebellion
being at the tfme suppressed, and the property in the possession of the
military forces of the government.]
2. The government is riot estopped from denying an informer's claim to a
moiety in such a case,
(a) by the fact that its district- attorney has allowed proceedings in
confisclition to be carried on under the act and the land to be sold, and
thepurchase-money to be received;
(b) or by the fact that the Commissioner of the Freedmen's Bureau,
to whom, as agent of the United States, Congress gives the control and
management of all captured and abandoned lWnd, never claimed the
land itself, but after it had been sold and the price paid into court, and
a moiety adjudged to the informer, has taken the other moiety without
question.
8. The case of an informer in such a case stands on a very different footing,
and is to be judged of by very different principles of estoppel, from that
of a purchaser of the land, who has paid his money to the United States
in consequence of their offer to sell under the act.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Georgia. The case was thus:
On the 2d December, 1862, the executors of the will of
C. J. McDonald, being fully authorized, sold and conveyed
to the Confederate government certain'land in Bibb County,
Georgia, to be used (through the agency of certain laboratories built upon it for the preparation of ammunition) in promoting the rebellion agaiust the government of the United
States. This land remained the property df the Confederate
government, and was used in aid of the rebellion, until the
final surrender of the Confederate armies, when it was taken
possession of and held by the military forces of the United
States. On the 17th July, 1866, while it remained so in the
possession of the military forces, one Titus filed with the
district attorney an information against it under the act of

TITUS v.

UNITED

STATES.

[Slip. Or.

StateMnent of the case.

August 6th, 1861, known as the Confiscation Act.? This act
provides, in substance, that if, during the (then) present or
ainy futre insurrection against the government of the United
States, any person should, after the prescribed proclamation,
purchase or acquire, sell or give, any property, of whatsoever
kind or description,with intent to use or einloy the same, or
suffeil' the same to be used or employed, in aiding or abetting
or promoting such insurrection; or if any person, being the
owner of snch property, should knowingly use or employ,
or consent to the use or employment of, the same for such
purpose, all such property should be lawful subject of prize
and capture wherever found, and the President was required
to cause it to be seized, confiscated, and condemned. The
proceedings for condemnation were to be had in the courts
of the United States having jurisdiction of the amount, or in
admiralty in any district in which such "prizes and capture"
might be seized, or into which. they might be taken and proceedings first inistituted. The Attorney-General, or the district attorney of the United States for the district in which
the property might at the time be, was authorized to institute the proceedings of condemnation, andi in such cage,
they were to be wholly for the benefit of the United States;
or any person might file an information with such attorney,
and then the proceedings were to be for the use of an informer and the United States in equal parts.
The district attorney, in pursuance of the information filed
by Titus, as already mentioned, and prbsecuting "for the
United States and informant," on the 15th January, 1867,
commenced proceedings in the District Court of the Southern District'of Georgia for the condemnation and sale of the
property, alleging the conveyance to and use by the Confederate government, and averring that, by the surrender of the
Confederate armies, it had become the property of the UnitedStates.
No person appeared in the action to defend, or offhred to
claim the property, and, on the 26th February, the formal
judgment of forfeiture and sale under the act was entered.
* 12 Stat. at Large, 319.

Oct. 1874.]

TITUS V. UNITED STATESr.
Statement of the case.

A warrant of sale was issued on the 25th March, 1867, to
wlich the marshal, on the 21st November, returned that, on
the 8th May, he had postponed the sale upon the order of
the district, attorney. On the 17th June Titus filed a .petition in the cause, asking to be made a party, and for a judgment, asserting his right to one-ha1ifthe proceeds of tie sale,
and directing its payment to him. The prayer of this petition was granted on- the 8th April, 1868, and,.on the 20th
January, 1870, the marshal made a second return to the
warrant of sale, to the effect that he had sold the property
for $19,542.75, and had paid the purchase-money into the
registry pf the coui't.' On the 19th April following, the Commissioner of the. recdm en's Bureau asked for and obtained an
order for the payment to him of one-half the net proceeds of
the sale.
The reader 'will perhaps recall that the act establishing
the Freedmen's Bureau, passed March Rd, 1865,* provides"That the commissioner, under the directiohi of the President,
shall have authority to set apart for the use of loyal refugees and
freedmen such tracts of land within the insur'rectionary States
as shall have. been abandoned or to which the United States hall
have acquired title by confiscation, or sale, or otherwise,and to every
male citizen, whether refugee or freeaman as aforesaid, there
shall be assigned not more than forty acres of such land," &c.
After providing that he shall be protected in the occupancy thereof, at an annual rental for the period of three
years, the act concludes thus:
"At the end of said term, or. at any'time daring said term,
the occupants of any parcels. so assigned may purchase the land
and receive such title thereto as the United States can convey, upon
paying therefor the value 6f the land, as ascertained and fixed
for determining the annual rent aforesaid."
The twelfth section of the act of July. 16th, 1866,t continuing the said bureau, also provides"That the commissioner shall have power to seize, hold, use,
*18 Stat. at Large, 507.

f14 Id. 173, &c.

TITUS V. UNITED STATES.

181ap. Or.

Argument for the phintiff in error.

lease, or sell, all buildings and tenements, and any lands appertaining to the same or otherwise, formerly held under color of title by the
late so-called Confederate States, and not heretofore disposed of by
the United States, and any buildings or lands held in trust for
the same by any.person or persons, and to use the same, or ap-

propriatethe proceeds derived therefrom, to the education of the freed
people," &e.
The district attorney, on the 2d May, filed a motion to set
aside the judgment in favor of Titus, and, that motion being
refused, took a writ of errol to the Circuit Court, where the
judgment was reverse(]. The case was here for a review
of this action of the Circuit Court.
Mr. J. A. Wills, for the plaintl'ff in error:
I. The United States had certainly, as one ground of title
to the property in question, that arising under the Confiscation Act of August 6th,.1861. Even conceding that they
had a title arising by conquest, or by the surrender of the
Confederate States on the field of battle, represented by the
Commissioner of the Freedmen's Bureau, under the twelfth
section of the act of July 16th, 1866, still they had a right to
elect, and by the concurrant action of their several officers
did elect to rely upon ana assert their title and to enforce
and dispose of it by the proceedings in confiscation. They
are accordingly bound by all the legal consequences and incidents of that election.
The proceeding in confiscation, in which the judgment in
favor of the informer was rendered by the District Court,
was a valid legal unit; and, therefore, the judgment in favor
of the informer was an integral, necessary, and logical
sequence, or part of the confiscation proceedings, which,
considered as such, cannot be maintained in part and set
aside in part; in short, the whole must stand or fall together.
Tie land was cofiseable under the Confiscatiop Act of
August 6th, 1861.
The fict that it had been conveyed by Its former owners,
directly, "to the Confederate States,!? and had been used and
employed by them in aid of the rebellion, did not render it

Oct. 1874.]

TITUS V. UNITED, STATES.
Argument for, the plaintiff in error.

any the less nor any the more confiscable, under those laws,
than it would have bden if the title had remained in its
,former owviers. Ill either, case it would have beeji equally
"used and employed in aidiug, abetting, and -promoting"
the rebellion. The title of those who now bold the land
under the decree and order of sale in the proceedings in confiscation against it, rests upon the truth of this proposition;
and, indeed, this seems to be admitted on all sides, since no
writ of error has been sued out by any one to call in question the validity of those proceedings, so far as they 'elate
to the judgment of condemnation, and to the sale of the
land confiscatei
- By the act of August 6th, 1861, it was made "th e duty of
the Attorney-General, or of the district attorney of the
United States for the district in which said land wa situated, to institute -the proceedings of condemnation, and in
such, case it is declared they shall be wholly for the beneit of
the United States, or any person may file an information with
such attorney, iii whicli case the proceedings shall be for the use
of such informer and the United States in equal .arts."
The information filed by the informer with the district
attorney which led to the seizure of the property in this
case, was filed July 17th, 1866. He also furnished, the evidence used in the trial of this case for the condemnation
thereof.* Now, if the district attorney had had all the information and evidence necessary to secure a condemnation
of the said property, before-or at thie time the information
of the informer, was filed with him, it was his duty by law
to proceed on his own information and evidence. But he
did not so proceed. Presumptively, indeed evidently, because he could not.
' When the two general facts are established in this casefirst, that the land informed against was confiscable, and was
actually conicated and sold under-a judgment of the District
Court, and second, that the proceedings in confiscation were
This fact was aduiiitted in a certificate of the district attorney, filed below by consent, to supply lost parts of the record.-REP.

TITUS

v.

UNITED STATES.

[ Su p. 0 t.

Argument for the phdntiff in error.

instituted in the beginning and carried on-to enforce the
law, at the instance of the plabitiff in error, an informer,
w!hose relation as such has been admitted and proved-the
courts or the United States in such confiscation proceedings
have no right to disregard the third section of the act of
Augnst" 6th, 1861, which declares expressly that "in su~ch
case the proceedinqs shall be for the use of sitch informer and the
United Statcs in eqtal parts."
The statute of March 3d, 1865, giving the rights acquired
by conquest to the Freedmen's Bureau, shows that the only
title proposed to be given to the freedmen for auy such property was a " quit-claim."
Hence in the insurrectionary
States but little value was attached, in point of fact, to property held by the title of conquest, ,ivhile the fullest confidence
was given to a title acqnired by judicial proceeding under
the confiscation laws; and that, therefore, the Commissioner
of the Freedmen's Bureau acted wisely in this case by electing to assert the title of the United States in and by the proceedings in confiscation. The half that lie did get was better
than the whole which he might have bad.
What, then, was'the legal effet of his election,?
This.question was submitted to Mr. Stan bery, when attorney-general, in regard to the Macon armory property.
He was askedI If, in your opinion, a complete title to that property is not
alreidY vested in the United States, to direct such proceedings
to be instittuted as may be necessary for the purpose of having
the title perfected."
Under date of October 5th, 1866 (after the information in
this case had been filed), that distinguished lawyer says: *
" The United States is in possession of the property, I understand,
and in so fiar as the operation of the law of war-may be concerned,
the title is as perfect now as it can become.
"The property, however, may be liable to confiscation under
the act of August 6th, 1861, &c. In respect to the institution of
proceedings under that-statute, the first objection that occurs to
12 Opinions of Attorney-General, pp. 76-78.

Oct. 1874.]

TITUS V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

me is, that it waives the claim of title by conquest. Furthermore,
on the filing of the information, the property would pass at once
into judicial custody, andcontinne in such custody until the dotermination of the cause, &c. I do not think that I can safely
direct judicial proceedings against the property, &c. I mention
that law [of August 6th, 1861] as it is the only one known to
me under which an allegation of-forfeiture could probably be
-framed."
_ any time before the information was filed, and at
H. At
all times afteiwards and before the sale of this property, it
was in, the power of the Commissioner of the Freedmen's
Bureau, under the act of March 3d, 1866, to have elected to
claim title by conquest alone, and through the law officers
of the United States to have discontinued the confiscation
proceedings,.aud to have relied on the title by conquest
alone. But that was not done. In addition to his passive
acquiescence, he came forward, and, by his application to
the court for his halfyf the proceeds of the sale of the property, he directly aid positively ratified and approved the
confiscation proceedings, and the claim of the informer to
the other half of the proceeds under them.
Mr. S. F. Phillips, S&licitor-General, contra.
The (HIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of thie court.
In war the public propertyof an enemy captured on land
becomes, for' the time being at least, the property of the
conqueror. No judicial proceeding is necessary to pass the
tfle. Usually the ultimate ownership of real property is
settled by the treaty of peace, but so long as it is held and
not furrendered by a -treaty or otherwise it remains the
property of the conqueror.
This well-settled principle -in the law of i'ar 'was recognized by this court in United States v. .Fuckabee,* as applicable
to the late civil war. At the close of that war there was
no treaty. When the insurrection was put down the government of, the insurgents was broken up, and there was no
16 Wallace, 434.

VOL. XX.

31

TITUS V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

power to treat with. Hence thu title to all captured property of the Confederate government then became absolute
in the United States.
Titus, however, claims as an informer under the act of
1861. This act proyided, in substance, that if, dur;ng the
(then) present or any future insurrection against the government of the United States, any person should, after the prescribed proclamation, purchase or acquire, sell or give, any
property of whatsoever jiuid or description, with intent to
use or employ the same , or. sliffer the same to be used or
employed, in aiding or abetting or promotinog such insurrection ; or if any rerson, being the owner of such property,
should knowingly use or employ, or consent to the use or
employment, of the same for such purpose, all such property
should be lawful subject of prize and capture wherever
found, and the President was required to cause it to be
seized, confiscated, and condemned. Thl proceedings for
condemnation were to be had in the courts of the United
States having jurisdiction of the amount, or in admiralty in
any district in which such "prizes and capture;, might be
seized, or into which they might be taken and proceedings
first institulted. The Attorney-General, or the district attorney of the United States for the district in which the
property might at the time be, was' authorized to institute
the proceedings of condemnation, and, in such case, they
were to be wholly for the benefit of the United States;- or
any person might file an information with such attorney,
and then the proceedings were to be for the use of an informer and the United States in equal parts.
Clearly this act was intended for private, not public prop,erty-for such property of persons as required, under the
laws of war, a judicial sentence of condemnation to divest
the title of its owner,-not such property of a hostile government as had already been captured by al army and subjected to the complete and undisputed dominion and ownership of the conquering power. It applies, as will be seen,
to all property, personal as well ,as real. Not on-ly to a'
laborator j in which ammunition is prepared, but to the am-

Oct. 1874.]

TITUS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

*imunition itself; not to armories simply, but to their priQduct.
If the laboratory, owned by the hostile government, when
captured in the progress of the war and held by the army,
call be informed against and condemned for the benefit of
the informer and the United States, so also cai the anininition prepared therein and captured in battle. If the armory;
then the gun. Once incorporate this statute, with such ,a
construction, into the law of war, and the attention of the
soldier ill battle will be divided'between the capture of arms,
ammunition, and stores on the field, and the search for a
district attorney with whom to lodge a statutory information, and demand, as a matter, of righti a proceeding in the
court for its condemnation on the joint account of himself
and the government in whose service he is. We doubt if.
the counsel for the informer in this case, who has so earnestly and so ably advocated the cause of his client"h'ere,
would be willing to enlist himself in behalf of such a claim,
and yet it is difficult.to see how, if he succeeds in this,-he
might not in that.
An informer, to entitle himself'to the statutory reward
for his service, must inform against property which is the
subject of judicial condemnation. There call be nothing to
divide if there is nothing to condemn. In this case the
land, when informed against, was already the property of
the United States. The title had passed by tlie completed
conquest. There was nothing to reach ,by judicial process.
Information, in the statutory sense, could do no good. The
property had been devoted to the war and followed its fortunes. The capture was the result of many. battles, but it
was none the less, on that account, captured property, needing no judicial sentence of forfeiture to make it absolutely
the property of the United States.
But itis claimed that the United States are estopped by
the pi'oceedings.of condemnation instituted, as they were, il
behalf of itself and an informant, from denying, as against
the informer, that the property in question was the subject
of forfeiture on joint account under the act. There is no
pretence that there was any claim,,adverse'to the title of the

TITUS ,.' UNITED STATES.

I[Sap.

Ot.

Opinion of-the court.

United States as conqueror, that was, or could be, cut off by
the judgment of the court. It will hardly be contended,
we think, that if, after the close of the war, an information
had been filed with the district attorney against the Charleston.custom-house, and he had proceeded to have it condenined under the act, the United States would be estopped
from objecting to the claim of an informer, for one-half its
value, and yet the. custom-house, although owned by the
United States before the war, was no more its property at
the close than was the laboratory informed against in thiscase, if the statements in the record -are true. The very
libel of information, filed by the district attorney, shows
upon its face that the title of the United States was then
complete, and the fair inference from the petition of Titus
to be made a party to the cause is, that the case made by the
libel is the same as that he presented to the attorney for
proceedings.- Certai nly the United States are not prohibited
from asserting, as against the informer, that the case he
brought to its consideration, and upon which it acted, was
not one in which he could be interested.
But it is further claimed that there is an estoppel in favor
of this informer because the Commissioner of the Freedmen's Bureau omitted to appehr and esist the judgment of
condemnation, and, after the sale was made, applied for and
received from the court one-half the proceeds.
The act of July 16th, 1866, gave the commissioner of that
bureau .the control and management of property of the character proceeded against, for certain purposes specified, but
in this he was only the agent of the United States. His
buretu was the department of the government authorized
to manage-the trust to which the property had been devoted.
He is not estopped if the United States are hot, and his
neglect to appear and defend against the proceedings can
certainly have no more effect against the United States than
the institution of the original proceedings.
Neither was an estoppel created by the receipt of the purchase-money. The order in favor of the informer was made
on the 8th April, 1868, and the property remained unsold

olet. 1874.]

TITUS V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

until December 7th, 1869.

On the 19th April, 1870, the

commissioner made his application to the court for the

moley. One-half the proceeds was all he could ask for, so
long as the judgment in favor of the informer remained in
force. This he applied for and received, and on the 2d May
the pxoceedings now under consideration were commenced
to set aside that judgment. Certainly, under these circunistances, it cannot be said that, even if lie had the power
to do so, the commissioner has yielded the claim of the
government to the money which had been adjudged to the
informer.
Very different questions, and very diffe':ent principles of
estoppel, Will have to be considered if the United States or
the commissioner shall ever attempt to assert title against
the purchasers at the sale. They claim under, the sale, and
have paid their money in consequence of the offer of the
United States to sell in that way. The informer stands in
no such position. He has parted with nothing he ever had.
He stands upon the original title. If, when he informed,
the United States had no title, and through his information
one was acquired, lie is entitled to the statutory reward for
his service. But if the United States had then a perfect
title and nothing could be added to it by reason of his information, he has done nothing for which the statute. has
provided a reward. Whether he should be paid for furnishing the government with information by -which it has been
able to make its conquest available, is a question we are not
called upon to consider. We deal with him only as an informer under the statute, and as such he has no standing in
court.
In the view we bave taken of the case it is not necessary
to consider whether the District Court erred in permitting
Titus to become a party to the -proceedings after the judg-ment of coudemuation had been entered, and all, chances of
liability for costs had been resolved in his favor.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

