Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V. GILL.
Statement of the case.

'UNITED STATES V. GILL.
1. When, without any express contract founded on advertisement or on
military exigency, subsistence stores have bden received into custody by
army officeis in frontier parts of the country, and subsequently, the use
of them becoming necessary or convenient, have been in part used, in
part destroyed through carelessness of the army subalterns, and in part
become useless from natural causes,-the original owner having left
(but not with a purpose of abandoning) that par.t of the country, where,
had he remained, its disturbed state would have prevented him taking
care of the stores except in the government posts,-tbe government is
properly charged with the value of all the stores except of the part
to say, .is chargeable
which had spoiled through natural causes; that 'ig
with that which it got benefit from or suffered to be carelessly destroyed.
2. But it is chargeable only at the value of the stores when they were received by it, and not with the value at the time when they were used,
the value having risen between the two dates.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims; the case as found by
that court being thus:
I. In November, 1864, A. J. Gill was owner of five hundred and thirty-six tons of hay, at Point of Rocks, neatr Fort

Fillmore, in the Territory of Colorado. On the 27th November, 1864, he applied to Lieutenant Dunn, the commanding
officer at the fort, to purchase the same for the use of' the
United States. Dunn declined to make any such purchase,
statiug that he was not authorized to do so, but he gave
to Gill his receipt in writing, wherein it was stated that he
had "received of A. J. Gill five hundred and thirty-six tons
of hay, in good order and well ricked, for the use of the
government," and he at.the same time referred Gill to the
commander of the district and to tie quartermaster at Denver, who could purchase the hay if they saw fit. The commander of the'district was applied to, but declined to purchase at that time. During the same month the military
inspector of the district of Colorado, anticipating a short
supply of hay for the winter, drdered the quartermaster .of
Fort Lyon "to take the hay belonging to A. J. Gill and use
it for~government stock." After this Gill exercised no con-

UNITED STATES V. GILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

trol over the hay: He left Colorado on the 4th February,
1865, on business of his own, and did not return until the
summer of 1866. In consequence of Indian troubles then
existing it was unsafe for small parties to remain outside of
government posts, and he was compelled to leave the hay
without any one in charge of it; but in July, 1865, his agent
visited the place and found the entire five hundred and
thirty-six tons gone. The claimant did not abandon or intend abandonment of the hay, and at the time he left the
Territory it had gone into government use, as set forth in
what is now next stated.
IIn December, 1864, and during the winter 1864-65 the
quartermaster and-foragemaster at Fort Lyon directed government trains to go fo the hay and quarter there. A military expedition having about two thousand horses was also
quartered there, and used the hay. In the spring, about onehalf of the hay had been given to government ainials, about
one-quarter had been thrown out of the ricks, trampled
down, wasted, and destroyed, and about one-quarter remained in the ricks, though in a worthless condition.
After Lieutenant Dunn was relieved at Camp Fillmore,
his successor, Lieutenant Dennison, assumed the responsibility of the custody of the hay, and in June, 1865, the post
commander at Fort Lyon ordered the quartermaster there to
receive the rest of the hay remaining, so as to relieve Lieutenant Dennison from responsibility. A board of su'vey
being demanded, it was found that the rest was spoiled and
worthless, and no receipt was given or responsibility assumed by the post quartermaster.
II. The value of the hay in November, 1864, was $38.50
per ton, and during the winter, at the time it was used, $45
a ton.
Upon the foregoing case the Court of Claims decided, as
a conclusion of lawThat there being no valid express contract founded upon
advertisement or military exigency for the sale and purchase
of the hay, the government was not liable for the entire
quantity sold in November, 1864, at $38.50 per ton; but was

Oct. 1874.]

UNITED STATES V. GILL.
Argument for the United States.

liable for the hay taken and used, at its fair and reasonable
value at the time of taking; and responsible for the wasteful and destructive mannerin which it was taken and used;
and that Gill should recover for three-fourths of the entire
quantity ricked,. at the rate of $45 a ton. It accordingly
gave judgment in his favor for $18,090. The government
brought the case here.
Mr. G. H. Williams, Attorney-General, and Mr. John Goforth, Assistant Attorney-General,for the appellant:
1. There having been no valid express eutract founded
upou advertisement,* nor any military emergencyit the defendants were not liable for the hay alleged to have been
sold, if the taking was not a trespass by government troops.
The refusal of the district commander to receive the hay
was a notice to him as well as to all officers and agents of
the defendants that the hay would not be purchased for the
use of the government animals. The direction of the district inspector to the post quartermaster at Fort Fillmore to
use the hay was illegal and of no effect, as it was not within
the line of his duty or within his power to declare an emergency.
2. If the hay.was taken and used by order of an officer
without authority to act, or by government troops and
parties without the claimant's knowledge and consent, and
when he had left the Territory,,much more if they scattered
and trampled it under foot, it was a trespass, and the Court
of Claims had no jurisdiction of the case.1
3. The taking and using of the hay by the government
troops and parties was an "appropriation within the act of
July 4th, 1864,"§ and the Court.6f Olaims has no jurisdiction of the action.l1
4. The memorandum receipt given to claimant by LieuLarge, 220.
SAdt 2d March, 1861, 12 Stat. °at
t Act 4th July, 1864, 13 Id. 894.
: Gibbons v. United States, 8. Wallace, 269.
13 Stat. at Large, 881.
Filor v. United States, 9 Wallace, 45.

POLLARD v. BAILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

tenant Dunn was not binding upon the United States, there
being no delivery or acceptance of the hay; but, on the
other hand, the receipt of it having been accompanied by a
statement by Dunn that he was not authorized to make the
purchase, and the receipt being given as an accommodation
to the owner in order that the district commander might
know that he, Dunn, was cognizant of the fact that the owner
had five hundred and thirty-six tons of hay cut and ricked
in the vicinity of Fort Fillmore.
If judgment was, to be given for the owner at all it should
have been at the rate of $38.50 per ton, and no more. It
was improper for the court to rate it as worth $45 per ton.
Messrs. T. J. Durant and C. W. flornor, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE:
Upon the facts found, we think the judgment should have
been for the value of the hay in. November, 1864, to wit:
$38.50 per ton, instead of $45, its value during the winter.
To this extent the Court of Claims erred. The judgment is
therefore -REVERSED, and the cause remanded, with instructions to enter a new judgment
IN

ACCORDANCE WITH THIS OPINION-

POLLARD v.

BAILEY.

Where by the charter of a bank, stockholders are 1"bound respectively for

all the debt of the bank in proportion to their stock holden therein,"
one creditor cannot sue a stockholder at law (there being numerous
other creditors) to recover the full amount of his debt, without regard
to those other creditors or to the ability of the other stockholders to respond to their obligations under the charter; and so appropriate to
himself the entire benefit of that stockholder's security and exclude all
other-creditors from it. He should proceed in equity, where the "proportion can be ascertained upon an account taken of debts and stock,
and a o rata distribution of the debts-among the several stockholders."

