THE CONFISCATION CASES.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

_Defrees, reported in the 11th of Wallace, so far as they are
applicable to the facts of; this case; and on the further
ground, that the libel of iliformnatiou is fhtally defective in
charging no one ofFence positively, but several offences in
the alternative.
Mr. Justice DAVIS also dissented.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY, not having heard the argument,
took no part in the judgment.

NOTE.
CLAIMS

OF MARCUARD

ET AL.

Holders of liens against real estate sold under the Confiscation Act of July
17th, 1862, should pot be permitted to intervene in any proceedings for
the confiscation. Their liens will not, in any event, be divested.
IN these cases, which were several appendages to the case
just above reported, and which came here on error or appeal
from the .Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana, Marcuard,
the Citizens' Bank of Louisiana, and the Merchants' Bank of
New Orleans, alleged that at the time of filing the information
mentioned in the foregoing case as the foundation of the sale
which was made of the eight hundred and forty-four lots and
ten squares of ground in New Orleans, owned by Slidell, they respectively held liens against the said property. And they were
permitted by the courts below to intervene for the protection
of their claims. Those courts, however-the District Court first,
and the Circuit Court affirming its action-refused to let them
take the proceeds of the sale.
On the different writs of error or appeals the question was
whether this action was right.

Mr. Thomas Allen Clarke, for the parties appellant or plaintiffs
in error, denied that it was.
.Mr. C.

. Rill, Assistant Attorney- General, contra.

Oct. 1873.]

THE CONFIS0ATION OASES.

Statement of the case.

Mr.Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The parties now before us complain that they were not
allowed to take the proceeds of the sales. But they ought ndt
to have been allowed to intervene. They had no interest, even
if they were lien hol ders, in the confiscation proceedings. It
was only the right of John Slidell, whatever that right was,
that could be condemned and sold, and the sale .under the judgment of condemnation in no degree disturbed their liens.. By
the decree of condemnation the United States -succeeded to the
position of Slidell, and the sale had no other purpose or effect
than to make the thing confiscated available for the uses designated by the Confiscation Act. This was decided in Bigelow v.
Forrest,* and more recently in Day v..Micout The District
Court, therefore, acted correctly in rejecting the claims of the
appellants and plaintiffs in error, even if the reasons given for
the rejoction were insufficient, and the Circuit Court was not in
error in affirming what the District Court did.
The action of the Circuit Court in the premisesis, therefore,
AFFIRMED IN EACH Or THE CASES.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY did not sit during the argument, and
took no part in the decision of any of the above <auses.

CONRAD'S LOTS.
When,under the Confiscation Act of July 17th, 1862, an information has
been filed in the District Court and a decree of condemnation and sale
of the land seized been made, and the money has been paid into the
registry of the court, and on error to .the Circuit Court, that court, reversing the decree, has dismissed the information but confirmed the sale,
and ordered the proceeds to be paid to the owner of the land-if on error
by the United States to this court, this court reverse the decree-of the
Circuit Court, and affirm the decree of tbe District Court, that reversal
will leave nothing 6n which a writ of error by the owner can act. The
judgment having been reversed, the confirmation of the sale and order
to paythe proceeds fall. The only judgment can be reversal again.

ERaOR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana.
On an information.very similar to that in Slidell's case, filed
in the District Court for Louisiana, by The United. States v. Ten
*9 Wallace, 399.

t 18 Id. 156.

