CADLE v.'BAKER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

CADLE V. BAKER.
The debtors of a National bank, when sued by a person whom the comptroller,
professing to act in pursuance of the fiftieth section of the National
Currency Act, has appointed to be its receiver, cannot inquire into the
lawfulness of such receiver's appointment.
ERROR to the District Court for the Middle District of
Alabama; -the case being thus:
The forty-sixth and forty-seventh sections of the National
Currency Act* provide that if any of the banks which it
authorizesi fail to redeem their notes, the holder may have
the notes protested; and that notice of the protest shall be
forwarded to the Comptroller of the Currency; that upon
receiving notice of such failure to redeem, the-comptroller
shall send a special agent to ascertain the fhcts; and if, on
the report of-such agent, he shall be satisfied of the failure,
he shall declare the securities:of the bank pledged for re.
demption of the notes forfeited, affd give notice to the noteholders to preseht them to him for payment.
The fifieth section enacts that on becoming satisfied of
the failure "as specified in this act," he may also appoint a
receiver, who, under his direction, shall take possession of
the assets of the bank and collect all debts due to it, &c.
The same section provides, however, that if the bank denies that it has failed to redeem its notes, it may apply to
the nearest District Court or Territorial court to enjoin further proceedings in the premises, when, if such court, on
hearing the case; shall be satisfied that there has been no
failure, it may enjoiii both comptroller and receiver from all
further proceedings on account of such alleged refusal.
This statute being in force, the Comptroller of the Currency appointed one Cadle receiver of the First National
Bankc of Selma, and.the said Cadle; as such receiver,; brought
suit in the.court befow.-against a certain Baker, to recover
* Of June 3d, 1864, 18 Stat. at Large, 118.

Oct. 1874.]

I

CADLE v. BA.KER.
Opinion of the court.

the amount due upon a bill of exchange, drawn by Calle
and indorsed to the bank, and held as part of its assets at
the time when Cadle was appointed receiver. The declaration contained an averment in substance that the Comptroller of the Currency having become satisfied, "as specified in
the Banking Act," that the bank had refused to, pay its
notes, did appoint the plaintiff "a receiver as provided by
the fiftieth section of the act," anid that he had qualified
under his appointment and entered upon the performanceof his duties. The defendants demurred to the declaration,
and, in effect, assigned for cause-that it was not specifically
averred that each and all of the several things had been
done which were provided for in sections forty-six and fortyseven, in order to furnish the evidence to satisfy the comptroller that the bank had i'efused to'pay its notes and was in
default. The court below sustained the demurrer and gave
judgment for the defendant. The receiver now brought the
case here.
Mr. P. Phillips,for the plaintiffin error; no opposing counsel.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We think such averments as the defendant alleges to be
necessary and the want of which he has assigned for cause
of demurrer, were not necessary. The debtors of a bank,
when sued by a receiver, cannot inquire into the legality
of his appointment. It is sufficient for the purposes of such
a suit that he has been appointed and is receiver in fact.'
As to debtors, the action of the comptroller in making the
appointment is conclusive until set aside on the application of the bank. The bank may move in that behalf, but
the debtor cannot. Section fifty makes express provision
for a contest by the bank.
The court below erred in sustaining the demurrer, and
for that reason the judgment is reversed and the cause remanded with instructions to OVERRULE the DEMURRER to the
declaration and
PROCEED ACCORDINGLY.

