Oct. 1873.]

BANK V. COOPER.
Statement of the case.

meat. In answer to an interroga-tory whether at the time
the notes were made there was any agreement that all the
cotton shipped or to be shipped by him and R. B. Butler
for the year 1867, as well as for subsequent years, was to be
sold and the proceeds thereof applied by the complainants
to the payment or the notes in prcference to any other debts
due by him and 11. B. Bntler, lie said there was such -an
agreement. But in his cross-examination he said the agreement of which he spoke was made in New Orleans on the
19th of February, 1867, after the notes and mortgage were
executed. The evidence, then, wholly fitls to pro.ve the
existence of the agreement made at the time when the suretyship was undertaken, and consequently the subsequent
arrangQment of February 19th, 1867, as well as the deed-of
trust for the crop of 1868, had no efiect upon the liability
of the mortgagors.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

BANK V.

COOPER.

After an assignee in bankruptcy, Aided by a creditor, has twice contested
before the District Court or its referee the claim of a person who has

been allowed to prove his claim, and, after all the evidence which could
then or afterwards be produced, it has been twice decided that the claim

was a valid one, no bill lies in the Circuit Court (either under the general provisions of the Bankrupt Act or under the second sectioi of it,
giving to the Circuit Court a general superintendence and jurisdiction

of all cases and questions arising under the act) against either the
assignee or the person who has beeli allowed to prove his claim, to have.
the order allowing it reversed. Such a bill may be demurred to for
want of equity.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of New York; the case being thus:
On the 4th of February, 1870, the Troy Wo6llen Company
was adjudged a bankrupt by the District Court for the Northern District of New York, and on the 1ltb of March, 1870,
one Tappan became the assignee. Soon afterwards Cooper,

BANK V.

COOPER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Vail & Co. proved a debt against the bankrupt amounting
to $67,029, and on the 24th of July 1870, filed the probate
with the assignee. Subsequently, onrthe 29th of November,
on petition of the First National Bank of Troy, which had
also proved a debt against the bankrupt, the District Court
made an order allowing them and the assignee to contest
the validity of the claim of Cooper, Vail & Co. It was then
referred to W. Frothingham, Esq., to take the proofs and
accounts respecting the claim, to determine its legality and
amount, and to report his conclusions to the court. Permission was also given to the assignee, and to any creditor
of the bankrupt, if they desired to contest the claim, to
attend the proceedings before the referee, and it appears
that the bank did attend, that evidence in oppositi6n to the
claim was submitted, and that the referee reported the whole.
of it as due f'rom the bankrupt. To his report joint exceptions we're filed on behalf of the bank and the assignee, and
argued in the District Court upon the evidence taken before
the referee. These exceptions were overruled, and on the
13th of July, 1871, the court made an order allowing the
'debt as proved by Cooper, Vail & Co., and directing the
bank to pay the costs and expenses of the reference.
In this condition of things, the" bank filed a bill in the
Circuit Court below against Cooper, Vail & Co., and the
assignee, to procure a reversal of the order. The bill, after
setting forth the facts above stated, made a general averment that Cooper, Vail & Co. had no legal claim against the
bankrupt; that they bad fraudulently proved their claim;
that they knew this when the exceptions were taken to the
referee's report as well as when the court made the decree
allowing the debt, and that it was thus proved before the
District Court., Thebill then averred that the decree was
erroneous,'because there was no legal debt due by the bankrupt to Cooper, Vail & Co.; because the evidence before the
court proved that there was no such debt, And because the
court should have disallowed it.
This was one aspect of the bill. It further charged that
the assets in the hands of the assignee were insufficient to

Oct. 1873-']

BANK V.

COOPER.

Statement of the case.

pay fifty cents oh the dollar of the legal debts of the bankrupt, even if the claim of Cooper,Vail & Co. were disallowed,
and it averred that the assignee refused to appeal'from the
decision of the District Court, or to allow the credjtors to
appeal in his name, stating that he was advised that the
bank had a right to have the decree reviewed under section
second of the Bankrupt Act, and that if th'e creditors desired a review they would have to take that course. It then
charged that the assignee was guilty of neglect of duty in
omitting to appeal from .the decree of the District Court,
and renewed the ave'ment that the bankrupt was not, and
never was, liable for the debt .proved against it by Cooper,
Vail & Co., or for any part-of it.
The prayer of the bill was that the decree made by the
District Court night be " reviewed, examined, revised, and
annulled, and that the proof of debt filed with the assignee
by Cooper, Vail &.Co. might be rejected and expunged."
The second section of the Bankrupt Act, through which
it was alleged that the assignee had told the creditors if they
wished relief they would have to resort, declares that the
several Circuit Courts of the United States, within and for
the districts where the proceediags in bankruptcy shall be
pending, shall have a general superintendence and jurisdiction of all, cases and questions arising under the act, and,
except when special provision is otherwise made, may, upon
bill, petition, or other process of any party aggrieved, hear
and determine the case (as) in a court of equity.
Cooper, Vail & Co. demurred:
1. For want of equity.
2. For want of jurisdiction.
3. For want of privity between the complainant and the
defendant.
4. That the matters had been adjudicated and that the
adjudication was conclusive.
5. That the appeal was not w.ithin the time prescribed by
law.
6. That the bill showed that the District Court had decided the questions presented by the bill, but that the bill

BANK V.

COOPER.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

did not set forth the facts, o'r the evidence upon which the
order or decree of the District Court complained of was
made, or any facts or evidee before the court when the
order wastmade,or the grounds upon which that court based
its said decision and order or decree.
7. That the bill of complaint did not set firth facts sufficient to enable the court to determine whether or not the
District Court erred in making the order or decree complained of.
8. That the bill did not show that the District Court erred
in making the order or decree in the bill cbmplained of.
The Cireuit Court sustained the demurrer,.and the bank
tool this appeal.
Mr. E. F. Bullard, for the appellants;

S Stearns, contra.
S.

Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court..'
The demurrer presents the; question whether the complainants' bill sets forth any equity, sufficient to justify the
court in granting the relief sought against the defendants.,
No doubt when an executor or. administrator colludes
with a fratidulent claimant against a decedent's estate, and
refuses to take steps to resist fh'e claim, any person irnerested in the estate may maintain an action against such
fraudulent claimant and the ekeeutor or administrator for
the purpos'; of contesting the claim. Bills in equity of this
nature havh been maintained. And if an assign}ee in bankruptcy, with knowledge, or with reason to believe that one
claiming tp-be a creditor of the bankrupt had proved a debt
against the bankrupt's estate which had no existence, or
which was tainted with fraud, should neglect or refuse to
bontest the allowance of such debt, there is no reasoi why
the other oeditors, having proved their debts, should not
interpose and seek the aid of a court of
be permitted g'*
equity to annul the allowance. But the bill before us presenits uo such case. ' The assignee has resisted the all'owance
of the debt claimed by Cooper, Vail & Co. He took pai't
.*ith fhe appellants. in contesting the~debt before.the referee

Oct. 1873.]

-B N v. Co 0PER.
Opinion of the court.

to whose consideration it was submitted.

He joined with

theni in filing exceptions to the report.allowing the claim.
There is no avermeint of any collusion between him and the

clgimantq. The bill exhibits nothing which ought to cast
discredit upon his fidelity to his trust.- The referee decided
against the appellants' aftdr hearing all the evidence they
had to submit. The District Court.reviewed his decision
upon exceptions taken to it, and came to the same conelusion, allowing the debt claimed by Cooper, Vail & Co. Nor
is it pretended that any new evidence exists which ought to
lead the Circuit Court to any other conclusion than that at
which the Di'strict Colrt'arrived. In such a state of facts it
cannot be maintained that it was the duty of the assignee
to enter an appeal to the Circuit Court, or even to allow an
appeal in his name. ' After two trials, in.which he was aided
by *theappellants, after all the evide'nce had been made use
of in opposition to the claim which 6ould then be produced,
or which can now be "otained, and after two decisions allowing the claim, he may well have concluded, as he did, that
his. duty to his trust did'not require either expenditure of
the bankrupt's estate in further litigation ol the delay which
might have been consequent upon an appeal. The bill, then,
wholly &ils in exhibiting any equity against the assignee.
It is equally without equity as against Cooper, Vail & Co.
It is true the averment is made that they have no legal or
valid claim against the bankrupt, and that their claim was
fraudulently proved and made, but there is no allegation
wherein the fraud consists, or ofany step they have taken
in the assertion of their claim which they might not lwfully
talce. Such a general averment of fraud can be no foundation for an equity. Moreqver, it is apparent that the only
fraud intended in the averments of the bill is the assertion
of a claim which the complainants ijisist is not sufficiently
sustained by evidence. They objected to the claim at the
outset. They appealed to the District Court, and they we're
allowed to contest its validity. , It was at their instance a
referee was appointed to examiAAtnd report upon it.' Be.fore that referee th'ey.went td trial, without objetion. When

BANK V. COOPER.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

defeated they brought the contest into court and renewed it
there, but unsuccessfully. And they do not now allege that
.in either of these trials there was anything unfair, or 'that
Cooper, Vail & Co. were guilty of any fraud in maintaining
their'claini, other than the assertion of its existence, or that
they themselves made any mistake, or that they have any
other case now than they had and urged before the referee
and the District Court. Their .only ground of complaint
is. that the -referee and Distridt Court came to a different
conclusion froni that which they think should have been
adopted. The court thought the evidence established the
existence fWa debt due Cooper, Vail & Co. They are of a
differetit opinion:. They think the evidence did not establish
the existence of such a.debt, and, therefore, they have filed
this bill in the Circuit Court to annul the action of the District Court. Ii effect they are seeking a new trial of a question of fact which has been decided against them, and this without averring anything inore than that the District Court
drew a wrong conclusion from the evidence. Very plainly
they have made no case fi' equitable interference. There
are some bills'in equity.which are usually called bills for a
new trial. They are sustained when they aver some fact
which proves it to be against conscience to execute the judgment obtained, some fact of which the complainant could
Tiot have availed himself in the court when the judgment
was given against him, if a court of law, or of which he
might have avhiled himself, but was prevented by fraud or
accident unmixed with any fault or negligence of his own.
But a court of equity will.never interfere with a judgment
obtained in another court, because it is alleged to have been
erroneously given, without more. And such is substantially
this case.
But though the bill is destitute of equity, when considered
as an original bill, itis contended that it may be regarded
as an application for the exercise of the supervisory jurisdiction of the Circuit Court authorized by the second section
of the Bankrupt Act. That section declares that "the several Circuit Comrts of the United States, within and for the

Oct. 1873.]

BANK v. COOPER.
Opinion of the court.

-districts where the proceedings in bankruptcy shall.be pending, shall have a general auperintendenele and. jurisdiction
of all cases and questions arising under this act, and,'excelt
when special provision is. other'wise made, may, upon bill,
petition, or other process of any party aggrieved, hear: and
determine the case (as) in a court of equity." The complainants, hadving proved their debt" against the bankrupt,
contend thatthey mdy be considered parties aggrieved by
any order of the District Court allowing the probate of other
debts against the'same bankrupt, when the assignee refuses
to appeal from the order, or allow an, appeal to theCircuit
Coirt. It is true their bill was not filed in the Circuit Court
until' about four 'months and a half after-the order corftplained of was made. But the act of Congress'prescribes no
time within which-the application for a review must be presented. An appeal is required to be taken within ten days.
Not so with a petition or bill for a review. Undoubtedly
the application should be made within a reasonable time, in
order that the proceedin os to settle the bankrupt's estate
may. not be delhyed, but neither the act of Congress nor any
rule of this court determines what that time is. At pt:esent,
'therefore; it must be left to depend upon the cilrcumstances of each case. Perhaps, generally, it should be fixed in an-.
alogy to the period designated within which appeals mulst
be taken.* It is, however, to be observed that the, bill does
not charge any fraud ulent collusion between the assignee
and Cooper, Vail & Co. At mbst it charges neglect df duty
by the assignee in oinitting to contest the debt claimed, and
in fiailing to appeal fi'om a decree of the District Court
allowing'the debt. Whether this.presents a proper case for
a review under the second section of the Bankrupt Act need
not now be decided. For should it be conceded that the
complainants had a right to apply to the Circuit Court for a
review of the order of the District Court, and conceded also
that this bill may be regarded as such an application, the
question would still remain whether the ourt er1red in dis* Littlefield v.The Delaware and Htidson: Canal Co., Bankrupt Register,

vol. iv, p, 77.
VOL. XX.

12

BANK V. COOPER.,

[&~p. Qt"

Opinion of the court

missing it. Had the court, in the exercise of its superintending jurisdiction, heard the case and decided it, as the
District Court did,'the decision'would have been final, and
no appeal could- have been taken to this court.* True, if
the court halI decided that it had no jurisdiction to review,
this court might have entertained an appeal, not for the purpose of reviewing, but for the purpose of correcting an erroneous decision respecting the po er of the Circuit Court,
and enabling'the complainants to be heard on their application.t But it does not appear that this bill was dismissed
because the court thought it had no power to review the
action of the District Conrt at the suit of these complainants.
On the contrary, it rather appears the bill was dismilssed because it presented no case that called for the exercise of the
superintending jurisdiction of the court. The statte, though
conferring the power, does not make it obligatory upon the
Circuit Court to retry every decision of the District Court
which a creditor supposing himself aggrieved may ask the
court to retry. And it may well be that when, as in this
case, a question of fact has been twice tried, and twice decided in the same way, when it is not averred that there has
been any collusion between the assignee and the creditor
who has proved a debt, or that the complaining party has
any evidence which he has not already submitted, or that
he has been hindered by any accident or fraud from presenting his case as fully in the District Court as he can in
another tribunal, when-the substance of all he alleges is that,
in his opinion, the court should have determined the facts
differently, it may well'be that the Circuit Court, in the exercise of its discretionary power, looking also at the delay
of the application, may properly conclude that no sufficient
case is presented calling for a retrial of the facts.
We do not perceive, therefbre, in the action of the Circuit
Court anything that requires correction, and the
DECREE IS AFFIRT)IED.
* Aorgan v. Thornhill, 11 Wallace, 65; Tracey v. Altmyer, 46 New York,,

698.
j- People v. New York Central Railroad Co., 29 New York, 418.

