Oct. 1873.1

CITY or- MEMPHiS v., BROWN.
Syllabus.

OITY OF MEMPHIS V. BROWN..
1. Where an individual contractea with a city corporation to. pave its
streets, and the corporation afterwards, by way of assisting him with
funds, issued to him its bonds, having several years -to-ru (and then
worth in'the market but fifty cents on the dollar), with the understanding that the bonds might be sold for what they would bring, and that
other bonds might be afterwards bought by the contractor, so that the
city might.huve its bonds again when they matured, and the contractor
sold the bonds: Held, on a suit between the artie. for a settlement
under the original contract for paving, that the cqntractor could discharge himself from his obligation to return the Donds to the city by
charging himself with and paying their market value at the time of
accounting in the Fuit; and that he was not obliged to return the bonds
in specie before he could compel the city to pay him for his work. Held,
further, thftt the fact that the city was pecuniarily embarrassed, and
-had po money with which it could go into the market and bu3F the
bonds, did not alter the case.
2. Before a court will sanction the exaction of hard conditionsmade by a
city with its contractors, who have been reduced to necessities by the
omission of the city itself to keep with strictness its promises to th6m,
it will be careful to know that ever4 stipulation on the part of the city,
.under any new agreement, has. been fully performed by it. Hence,
where a city agreed to issue a certain amount of bonds to a contractor
who was embarrassed in carrying on his contract with it, the embarrassment being produced in part through the city's own non-payment to the
contractor of what it owed him,'the contractor agreeing on his part in
the new agreement, to release the city from .certain'obligations under
which by the original contract 'it was bound: Held, that the city,.nothaving carried out its new agreement completely, could not avail itself
of the release; that what was done was not an accord and satisfaction,
but an eiecutory agreement for a release, upon the perfor.mance of certaih conditions, which, not having been performed, left the release without obligatory force.
3. Under the laws of Tennessee and its own chartei, the city of Meinphis, inthe State just named, had "full power to make contracts for. paving the
city, and to bind itself to pay for the wdrk either in cash or in the bonds
-ofthe city, or in both. Moreover, the city was liable on such contracts
to a suit by..the contractor. If the city has guaranteed payment for the
paving, in case others (as 'the owners. of property along the street) did
not pay, and the highest court of the State decides that such.owvners cannot constitutionally be charged with the co st,and be compelled to pay,
the city cannot allege the illegality of the contemplated nmode of the
contractor's getting payment as a defence to a claim on it for payment.
Power given to the city, to assess the expense of paving upoh the advAT.

yy.

19

290

CITY OF MEMPHIS

v.

BROWN.

[Sup. OL

Syllabus.
joining owner, does not impair the power of the city, itself, to do the
work. It is permissive merely.
4. Where a city expressly contracts to pay for paving a street, a subsequent
modification of the details of the contract and in which provision is made
for the assessment and collection of eertain portions of the expense, which
mode of collection was subsequently declared by the courts to be illegal,
will not be held to be an abandonment or waiver of the original agreement of the city to pay for the paving.
6. Where a city cohtracts with persons to do work for it, agreeing to pay
them in bonds, having some years to run, and with interest warrants or
coupons attached, "principal and interest guaranteed and provided for by
a sinkingfund set aside for that purpose," and the contractop takes the
bonds, but the city does not provide inly sinking fund for the payment
of either principal or interest, the contractor to do the work cannot, in
a suirtagainst the city to recover what it owes him, adduce evidence of
bankers and stoekdealers to show what damage, in their judgment, he
has suffered by the city's violation of its contract in providing the sinking ftind; the witnesses-making the value of the sinking fund depend
upon the conditions-Ist, that it should be actually collected; 2d, that
it should be placed in the hands of trustees'; and 3d, that the trustees
should be persons of integrity-conditions which made no part of the
city's contract in the matter: There is no legal standard by which
damages founded on such a claim can be fixed. They are speculative.
There can be no standard market value of that which never existed.
6. A reception of bonds without this guaranty being fulfilled, and negotiating
them as valid debts of the city, waives the claim for the guaranty. The
claim for damages for not providing a guaranty (if any exist) belongs
to the holders of the bonds and -ndt to the contractor.
7. When the ordinances of a city,'which has a "city attorney" as one of its
officers, require that such attorney prosecute all suits to which the city
may be a party,, or in which it may be interested, persons who enter
into a contract with the city under ordinances and on alvertisements
made pursuant to them, and on bids put in to pave its streets, with a
provision in the contract that the accounts for the paving shall be made
out by the city engineer, and delivered to the contractors for collection,
and if"not paid within ten days after the payment becomes due, "shall
be placed in the hands of the city attorney for collection, under the city
charter," cannot, even though those accounts are numerous and the
collection of them onerous and expensive, employ other attorneys, and
charge to the city what they pay to the additional attorneys for their
profe.sional services. A contract made under such circumstances cannot be modified like an ordinary contract made by the city. It must be
performed according to its terms.
8. The fact that the mayor and city attorney urged the contractors to make
great efforts in-the collections, and advised them to retain counsel in
looking up titles and to aid in 6ringing suits, does not alter the case,
there being no evidence that the city legislature, or any committee

Oct. 1873.]

CITY oF MEMPHIS v; BROWN.
Statement of the case.

which was the agent of .the city in making the contract, advised or
assented to any change in its term..
9. Where, under large contracts for paving a city, the city and the con-,
tractors to dothe work having become embarrassed, have resorted to
various rather irregular devices to raise money and carry on the work,
the city issuing its bonds, and the contractors selling them at half their
nominal value, and things between the parties have got into a confused
and complicated state, and a suit at law has been instituted, and a bill
and-cross-bill in chancery.filed, a court may, not improperly (even be:(ore the case is ready for a decree, and without having se.tled the rights
of the parties),, refer the case to a master for an account of labor done
and materials furnished, and the value thereof, and to find how many
bonds the city has issued to the contrActors, and whether such bonds
had a value, and when they matured, and how muh the city owed the
contractors when the suit was brought, and-the parties consenting that
the, action at law be consolidated with the suits in equity-to hear aild
report to the court the proofs and his conclusions upon various matters
deemed pertinent by the court, and specified by it, including as it final
one, that be state an account between the parties, embracinr therein all
the matters in the cause of the bill and cross-bill, and showing in the
result the aggregate of debt of the debtor party to the other. And if
the 1iarties do not except 'to such order, but appear under it before -the
master and take, botb of them, testimony upon the subjects of reference,
for as long a term -as they desire, and then, announcing that they do not
desire to take further evidence, submit the matters of reference for the
determination of the master (taking no.exception before him), it is, no
ground of error (the Circuit Court having passed upon his 'report, and
with some modifications confirmed it), that before the cause was ready
for a decree, and without settling'the rights of the parties, the court referred it to the master for an account, and that the master took and
stated an account in accordance with the terms of the order.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for,the Western District
of Tennessee; the case, as appeared from a ,master's report,
and otherwise, having' been thus:

By a.general incorporation act of the State of Tennessee,
all cities of the State have full power to provide for the paving of streets, alleys, andsidewalks.*
The charter of.the city of Memphis, in the State just
name,d, enacts that "the board df mayor and aldermen shall
have power. to iroprove, preserve, and keep in good repair
*

Th6mpson & Stigers's Statutes, 1871, J,1859.

OITY

OF

MEMPIS v. BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the streets, sidewalks, public landings and squares of the
city."*
It enacts also,t that the city may require lot-owners to improve the streets fronting their lots,'and that "should any
owner fail to comply with any ordinance requiring him to
repair, grade, and pave the same, the mayor and board of
aldermen may contract with 'some suitable person for repairing, grading, and paving the same, and pay therefor,"
and collect the amount from the lot-owner.
It enacts also that the city may issue its bonds "for the
construction and pavement of the principal streets of the
city ;" and an act amendatory of the charter authorizes the
Nothing
issue of bonds " for any public improvement."
was said as to the rates at which it might sell these bonds.
The ordinances of tie city require that "the city attorney"
should prosecute all suits to which the city might be a party,
or in which it might be interested.
These provisions of law and this ordinance being in force,
the city of Memphis, in the year 1866, being desirous to
have certain of its streets paved with what is kn6wn as the
Nicholson pavement, passed an ordinance directing the
mayor to advertise for twenty days for paving the whole or
parts of them according to the plans and specifications of
the engineer's office, and further authorized the mayor and
the finance committee to make and enter into'contract or
contracts with the lowest responsible bidder, as to payments
and time of completion, with such restrictions as they might
think best.
The ordinance went on:
"The city civil engineer shall forthwith proceed to make a
plat of said streets and a plat of the lots bounding and abutting
the same ; and shall by actual measurement ascertain the number of feet front on each lot bounding and abutting the said
streets; and shall mark upon his plat the names of the owners
of such lot and the number of feet belonging to each. . . . e
* Act February, 1859, Bridges's Digest, 112 and 208.

t Ib. 120.

Oct. 1873.]

CITY 'OF MEMPHIS

v. BROWN.

Statement.of the case.

shall also prepare and lay before the board of mayor and aldermen at their first meeting after a contract shall have been made
by them for the grading, constructing, and paving of the street,
upon which such lots front, an estimate of the entire cost of said
improvement under the contract aforesaid, as shall be opposite
the respective lot or lots,- and shall mark upon said lot the
amount thereof; and such amounts are hereby declared to be a
special tax upon such lots respectively, and a debt due by the
owners thereof in such instalments as the board of mayor and
aldermen may determine; and he shall make out and deliver to
the attorney for the city a list of the owners and the amounts
due respectively, with the number of the lot and time of payment, and the attorney shall proceed to collect the same, and in
case the owner shall fail to pay on demand, to enfbrce the lien
against the lots given by the charter of the city."
The advertisements and surveys directed were niade, and
bids put in by different parties. Among the bids were one
b' Taylor, MeBean & Co., and another by Forest, Mitchell
& Co. These two bids were accepted.
Accordingly, on the 11th of March, 1867, the city entered
into a contract with Taylor, McBean & Co. for the paving,
insections, certain streets. The conttact said:
".Upon the completion of each section, the contractors shall.
receive from the owner or owners of lots fron ting upon said
section one-half of the price of the same in cash, the remaining
half to be paid by the said owner or owners i.n thirty, sixty, and
ninety days, they giving their notes for the same, with the lien
fixed by the city charter retained in said notes.
"The.accounts for said pavement will be made out upon the
completion of each section, by the city engineer, against the
prpperty owner or owners and delivered to the contractors for
collection, and if. not paid according to the terms above specifled, within ten days after said payment becomes due, said
accounts shall be placed in the hands of the city attorney for
collection under the ciLy charter. . " The city of Memphis will and does hereby guaranteeto the contractors the payment of said accounts, as so' assessed against the
property owner.or ownersfor the pavement."
This contractt was called "the cash contract."

CITY OF MEMPHIS, v. BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

On the 16th-of July, 1867, the city entered into another
contract, this one being with Forest, Mitchell & Co., for
paving, in like sections, certain other streets. This contract
said:
"Upon the completion of each section the con tractor shall receive from the city the whole amount due under the conditions
of this contract for said section; the same to be paid in Meemphis citypaving bonds,'payab!e in five, ten, and fifteen years, in
equal proportions, with six per cent. coupons attached, payable
semi-annually. Principal and interest guaranteed and provided
for by a sinking fund act aside, for that purpose. Bonds to be
taken at par."
This contract was called "the bond contract."
As the reader will observe, there was no provision in this
contract for assessmen't, nor any refet'ence to property owners, or guarantee of payment. The contract was however,
subsequently modified as to the amount to be paid for certain portions of the work and as to the form of payment,
with a provision for assessm ent and collection of certain portions thereof, as had been made in the cash contract.
Both of the contracting firms above named were unable
to perform what they had contracted to do, and with their
consent and that of the city, a new firm, that of Brown &
Co., was substituted in their places; succeeding to their obligations and to their rights. Brown & Co. paved the streets
according to the contract.
The property-holders of the streets paved did not pay for
the paving opposite to their respective lots; and this failare
of theirs producing embarrassment on the part of Brown &
Co., these last sought relief by an application to the city.
To give this relief the city, in August, 1868, lent to Brown
& Co. its bonds to the nominal amount of $99,000. The
bonds were worth at the time not more than fifty cents on
the dollar, and they wert lent with the understanding that
they might be sold for what they would b' .ng, and that
other bonds might'be bought to replace them when they
should mature. Early in November, 1868, another application of the same character was made for $175,000 of the

Oct. 1873.1

O

'kY OF MEMPHIS V. BROWN.
Statement of the case..

city bonds; and a resolution was passed on the 18th, by the
city councils, and an agreeneut signed on the 20th of November by the city of the first part and Brown & Co. of.the
second. The agreement recited:
"That, whereas the party of the first part, in session on the
18th day of November, 1868, did pass the following resolution, to
wit:
,1 1Resolved, 4-c., That the city will loan Messrs. Brown & Co., the contractors of the Nicholson pavement, one hundred and seventy-five thirtyyear $1000 pavement bonds for eighteen months, upbn condition that said
contractors will place in the hands of the city attorney paving bills against
the property holders to the amount of the face value df said bonds; and
upon the further consideration that said e,nrtractorsWILL release the city from
all liabilitiesupon said paving contract, unlessit should be decided by the courts
of last resort that the property hoblers are not liable for said pavement. The
interest upon'said bonds shall be paid by the said Brown & Co , and at the
end of said eighteen months said bonds shall be returned to the city, principal and interest, unless said interest has been previously paid:.'
" Which said resolution embraces all the conditions of said loan,
and is accepted by the parties of the second part."

The instrument then proceeded:
"It is further agreed by said parties that the city will furnish
said bonds as rapidly as they can be executed, and that as said
bonds are delivered to the said Browa & Co., the said Brown &
Co. will deliver to the city attorney the collaterals to secure the
same. This agreement is in no wise to affect or modify th'e
terms an'd "obligations of the original contracts for paving the
streets of Memphis with the Nicholson pavement, as now existing between the parties, or the owners of the lots abutting on
the streets, except when said contracts are changed and modified by
the above resolution of the board'of mauor and aldermen and this
agreement."
The city'did not comply with this contract.
thus set forth the ffcts :

The master

. "Brown'& Co. received, with much dela-y in their issue, $140,006
in city bonds. The remainder of the loan ($835,000) was wilfullr withheld by the then acting representatives of the city,
and applied to payment of interest on the general funded debt
of the city, the city gefting about fifty cents on the dollar for

CITY OF ME2,PHIS V. BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
the' bonds thus withheld. The mayor had given to Brown &
Co. a letter (called by the city an acceptance, but which 'does
not possess a single quality of. a qommereial acceptance), stat-'ing that Brown & Co. should be entitled to receive $35,000 of
Memphis city bonds so soon as .they could be signed and ready
for delivery. But they were never signed, or if signed, never
delivered, and in that particular the city did not comply with
the 9tipulations whereby it received an agreement for release
from its. guaranty of the cash payments by property holders.
The greatest and apparently most, inexcusable neglect and delay
were exhibited by the city government in the delivery of the
bonds promised t6 Brown .&Co. under their loan. contracts."
The following was the form of one of the papers termed
acceptances:
-Mkm,Bs,August 27th, 1868.
"MEssas. BROWN & Co.: As soon as it 'is possible for me to'
sign. them I will issue to you, or your order, ten $1000 bonds of
the city of Memphis, the same b eing a part of the number you
are entitled to by a recent order of the board. You may use
this in any negotiation necessary to accompliih your purpose,
and the bonds can be delivered to your order on return of this
letter.
"1W.

LEFTWICH,

Mayor."

Brown & Co. and the city not being ble to arraige matters between them, Brown & Co., in 1869, brought a suit at
law to recover from the city $600,000, which the firm asserted
the city now owed it upon the two contracts 'for paving.
The city set up the agreei-ient of November 20th, 1868, as
an accord and satisfactii, and full performance was averr.ed.,
At a subsequent date, to wit, in November, 1870, the city
filed aobill in equity against Brown & Co., alleging various
matters of equitable defence, and asking that the firm be
restrained' from proceeding in a suit at law. To this bill
Brown & Co. made answer, and also filed a cross-bill against
the city.
In November, 1870, all proceedings in the suit at.law
were ordered to be stayed, to the end that the matters in
controversy be determined. in the equity suit; and in :that

Oct. 1873.]

OITY OF MEMPHIS V. BROWN.

Statement of the case.

same month, Brown & Co. moved for an order of reference,
up6n the following notice:
"Come, Brown & Co., by solicitors, and move the court in
this cause to order an interlocutory decree of reference to the
clerk of this court, as master, to find and report to the court,
at a future day in this term, or so soon as pAacticable, of and
concerning the following matters:
"1. That he state an account of all the labor done, and materials furnished, and the value thereof, at the agreed prices under
all the contrActs set out and referred to in the bill and cross-bill
herein, distinguishing the value of. that paving done opposite
the lots of private. owners from the remainder, and also of all
distinguishing the payments
payments made on account of -,
as above in the paving; and also" finding how such payments
were made, and under what agreement, if any.
"2. That he find how many bonds the city of Memphis loaned
Brown & Co.; and whether such bonds had a market value, and
what tha6 value was at the date of the loans; also, at the date
of the maturity of the loans; also, at'the bringing of this suit;
also, how fMuch, if any, the city of Memphis was indebted to
Brown & Co. at the date of such loans.
"13. That he find and report how many of the city's bonds
were delivered under the contracts dated July 16th and November 13th, 1867, in payment, as therein provided; and also
the value of such bonds when delivered; and the average value
of such bonds in this market and New' York, since delivery, to
the bringing of this action; also, the value, at such times, in
Memphis and New York, of such bonds having the payment of
the principal and interest secured by a sinking fund set aside
for that purpose.
"4. That he find and report whether any, and if so how much
work was done by such contractors for the city, additional to
that provided."
In April following, no exception being filed, this motion
was granted; and an order entered reqiiing that the action
at law involving an accounting and adjudication of questions
arising thereon was by consent joined with the present action, and the cause being at issue and coming on for hearing, it was order.d that it -be referred to Mr. Mitchell as

CITY OF MEMPHIS V. BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

master in chancery to take proof, hear, and report to the
court the proof, and his conclusions upon twenty-seven items
specified, of which the final was, " that he state an account
between the plaintiff and defendant, embracing therein all
the matters in the cause of the bill and cross-bill heiein, and
showing in the result the aggregate balance of debt of the
.debtor party to the other."
Under thiR order the master entered upon his office; and
evidence was taken before him by the parties.
As 'already said, the owners of lots along the streets
paved, diol not in the majority of instances pay the special
charges assessed for the paving against the lots. Brown
& Co. accordingly put the clairis (-Which the city ordinance'
had made liens against the lots) into the hands of the attorney of the city. But in addition to this, other attorneys
were employed to assist him in enforcing these special assessments or liens for paving, and as appeared, Messrs.
Humes and Poston, lawyers of Memphis, were paid for
prosecuting between four and five hundred suits: through the
courts, $10,000, and other attorneys for collecting them
without the j udici'al process, $25,000.
It did not appear that this employment of special counsel
was authorized by the city councils, or by any committee intrusted by them with the collection of the liens, though the
evidence tended to show that the mayor of tli city and the
city attorney knew an'd approved of what was done.
Mr. Waddel, one of the attorneys at law, employed byBrown & Co. to collect the special assessments, testified:
"As to specific directionsgiven by th mayor, city attorney, or other
offirers of the corporation,I do not know that' ever heard of any;
but I do know that the mayor and city attorney were apprised
of the extraordinary efforts we Were making to effect cbllections without suits, and apptoved the same, and urged us to
make all possible. In several visits which I made to the mayor,
he generally expressed his anxiety for us to -effect collections
in fhe manner we were puysuing, his i~lea being to get as much
as-possible without suit. My recollectiqn is that the city attorney advised the same course."
-

Oct. 1873.]

CITY

OF MEMPHIS

V. BROWN.

Statement of the case.

Brown, himself, testified:
"Both the mayor and city attorney requested that every effort
should be made to collect bills widhout suit by turns and trades,
exclanges and discounts, and putting a large collection force at
work, and making every effort to work as many of the bills into
the paving of the streets as possible. Their advice and direction was followed. After it became evident it was necessary to
sue, the city authorities advised suits to be brought, and to employ counsel to.aid the city attorney in the examination of titles,
drafting papers, and the work of suing. The city attorney took
us to the office of Humes and Poston, saying that the city business outside of' this was so large that it would be impossible for
him to bring these suits; that he must have assistance, and preferred them. The mayor said substantially the same thing, and
under their direction I retained Humes and Poston, who brought
about four hundred suits."
The testimony of one Ballard, a sub-contractor, and who
was with Brown in his interview with the mayor and city
attorney, showed exactly the same facts; and 'that of the
city engineer was to a-bout the like effect.
The city attorney, as the evidence showed, did little in
the matter, except show himself in court when the cases
were tried, and assist more or less with general counsels.
The "bond contract," as it was. called, bound the contractors, as the reader will remember, to tako the bonds "at
par," and on the other hand, the city engaged that the principal and interest of the bonds should be "guaranteed and
provided for by a sinkingfund set aside for that Purpose."
No sinking fund was ever set aside for the purpose of payL
ing either principal or interest of the bonds. The iiiterest
was not paid; and the bonds would bring in the market
only about fifty cents on the dollar. Brown & Co. adduced
four bankers or stockdealers in Memphis, to testify what
the same bonds would have been worth, had the city kept its
contract in this particular, and had the bonds, principal and
interest, been "guaranteed and provided for by a sinking
fund set apart for that purpose."
One of them, -Mr. Elder, testified that the market value

CITY OF MEMPHIS V. BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

in Memphis of bonds and stocks was governed by the New
York market; that the range of value of Memphis city
thirty-year six per cent. bonds, in Memphis, from the 1st
day of January, 1868, to 1st January, 1871, had been from
forty-six'to fifty-two cents on the dollar; that personally he
knew nothing of the New York price, but that the price in
Memphis would be regulated by the price there; that the
value of the bonds had been depressed by the failure to pay
the interest; that his opinion was, that if a sinking fund
had been actually provided, and placed in the hands of a
trustee, the market value, in Memphis and in New Yorkbetween the dates just named, of Memphis city short bonds,
running five, ten, and fifteen years in equal proportions, with
six per cent. coupons attached, payable semi-.innually, principal and interest guaranteed, and provided for by a sinking
fund set aside for That purpose-would have been from eightyfive to ninety cents on the dollar.
Another witness, Mr. Mrphy, president of the Memphis
Bank, testified that in his "opinion," had the city guaranteed
and provided foil the payment of the bonds, p rin'hipal and
interest, by a sinking fund set aside for that purpose-" had
such fund been actually collected and placed in the hands of trustees of known integrity, and had that fhct been generally known
by the community, in, Memphis and in the Eastern citiessuch bonds would be readily sold from eighty to ninety cents
on the dollar."
Mr. Barrett, "dealer in stocks and securities," gave the
same estimates. Mr. Tobey, a banker, one slightly higher,
eighty-five to ninety cents on the dollar.
On the 6th of June, 1871, the counsel, of the respective
parties having announced that they had no further evidence
to present, submitted to the master's determination the matters whic*h had been referred to him. The master having
considered the cases, thus reported:
1. He charged Brown & Co. with the market value, say
fifty-cents on the dollar, of all the bonds that the city had
lent them and which they had sold with a purpose to replace
them before maturity. •

Oct. 1873.]

CITY OF MEMPHIS v. BROWN.

Statement of the case.

2. He held that the city not having furnished to Brown
& Co. the full $175,000 of bonds, as it had contracted by its
contract of June 20th, 1868, to do, the city was not released
by the said contractors from all liabilities on the contract,
.even though the courts of last resort had not decided that
the property-owners were not liable fo r the pavement put
before their lots.
3. He held that under its charter, the laws of Tennessee
and the city ordinances, the city had a right to bind itself
by guaranty to the payment of the cash contracts, and had
done so.
4. He held, that the modifications of the bond contract
bound the city.
5. He held that the city was liable to Brown &
Co. for all damage suffered by failure of the city to
guarantee and provide for the payment of paving
bonds as stipulated; the master herein estimating, that
had the sinking fund been provided, the bonds would
have been worth eighty-five cents on the dollar, .
. $115,216
6. He held that it was bound to pay, as the
reasonable value of the services of attorneys employed to prosecute special assessments, by request of the city,.
•
10,000
7. And bound to pay further the value of services in the collection of special assessments or
paving bills, without process of law, by request 6f
the city,
.
.
.
..
25,000

$150,216
The master, accordingly, including the last three items,
amounting to $150,216, as proper charges against the city,
found as due to Brown & Co., on the assumption already
stated, the sum of $496,352.
Upon the report and the evidence on which the master
had acted, coming to the Circuit Court, that court fixed
what would have been the value df the bonds had a sinking.
fund been provided, at seventy-eight cents on the dollar: and,

CITY OF MEMPHIs v. BROWN.

[Sup. Cr.

Statement of the case.

Allowed in the place of the sum allowed by the
master, that is to say, .
The reduced sum of
A differ'ence of

.

.

$115,216
89,808
$25,408

And confirming, essentially, the rest of the report, decreed
in favor of Brown & Co. for $488,993.
From this decree the city of Memphis took this appeal,
alleging that the court below had erred:
1st. (This being in the substance of three diflerent assignmeuts) in decreeing that Brown & Co. could discharge themselves from their obligation to return the bonds lent to them
by paying their market value; and that the court ought to
have decreed that they return the bonds and coupons, or
else pay the city their "face value;" that the same error
existed in regard to the bdids overpaid them on the bond
contracts, and also in relation to the bonds paid to them on
the cash contracts.
2d. In decreeing that Brown & Co. could maintain a suit
on the paving contracts before any court of last resort had
decided that the property-holders were not liable to pay for
the same; the resolution and contract of November 26th,
1868, having eleased the city from all liability upon that
contract, unless such court did so decide.
[N. B. Although no court of last resort had made such a
decision when the case was before the master, it appeared
that afterwards, and before the case got here, the Supreme
Court of Tennessee, in the case of Taylor v. hart, did so decide.]
3d. n decreeing the city liable for the payment of the
cash contracts, by reason of their guaranty, or for any other
reason, for paving laid in front of private property; that
the decree should have been that the property-owners were
liable therefor,,and that the city was not.
4th. In holding the city liable for the paving under the
bond contracts, as, after the modifications agreed upon, the
contracts contained no agreement by the city to pay or to
guarantee.

Oct. 1873.]

CITY OF MEMPHIs v. BROWN.
Opinion of the court.

5th. In holding that the city was chargeable with $89,808
or other sum, as damages suilhred 'by Brown & Co., for its
failure to guarantee and provide for. the payment of the
bonds by a sinking fund.
6th. I'n allowing the $10,000 and the $25,000 as fees to
counsel employed to assist the official attorney of the city.
7th. (This being assigned as an .error arising upon the.
entire record): That the court below, before the ciuse was
ready for decree, and without settling-the rights of *theparties, referred it to a master for a' -account, and that the
master took and stated the acount- uniderhis own' 'iew of
the law and the facts, and'virtually decided the entir6 case,*
instead of the court.
.Afessrs. . '71. Carlisle and ,T .-D. McPherson,.with'whom was
.Mr. W. M. Randolph, for the appellants.
Mr. P. Phillips, with whom was Mr. S. Sibley, contra.
Mr. Justihe H'UNT, having stated 'tiegeneral natire of
the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
L. The firse three assigriments of error are based,'upon a
•singl.e idea, to wit, that there ws error in decreeing that
Brown & Oo. could dischauge them'selves fiomn theiviloigation 16 return the bonds loaned to them by payidg their
market-value; that the same error existed in regar4o the
bonds overpaid ihen on the bond contracts, aud'-alspan'relation to the bonds paid to them on the cash contradts&
As to each class it is insisted that the bonds iq 4pecie
should have been returned Or. their . noihinal fa*c-5value
allowe.d to the city. The-loan -was of 240 bonds'of $1000
each. At the time of makin'g tlbi l6an there was due to,
Brown & Co. on the paving conti'acts several hundr6d thbusand dollars.: This indebtelness the city did not wish'to
pay, or was unable to pay.' To meet the emergency the-city
loaned its bonds to'Brown. & Co., to be retfiun:d in eighteen
months with interest.,
The argument is That 'by their contract- 1.rown • & Co.

CITY OF MEMPHIS v. BROWN.

[Sup. Of.

Opinion of the court.

agreed to return the bonds to the city, and that a specific
performance of this agreement is necessary to do justice to
the city.
Conceding the power of the court to compel the specific
performance of a contract relating to personal property, this
does not appear to be a case justifying its exercise. Specific
performance is never decreed where the party can be otherwise fully compensated.*
If Brown & Co. have received bonds of the city, which
they are bound to return, and do not return, what damage
does the city suffer? The face of the bonds and interest, it
is said, as if they run to maturity, the city will then be liable.
for the payment of the whole amount. Not so. We are not
to inquire what may be the damage to the. city eighteen
years hence, but what it suffers at the present time by the
default of Brown & Co. If Brown & Co. should now be
decreed to pay the face of the bonds, instead of an indemnity, the city would fnake an actual profit. Suppose the
amount of bonds in question to be $200,000. With the sum
of $100,000 the city could now purchase the whole amount
of bonds supposed to be in issue, and retain as a premium
or profit the remaining $100,000. In his brief the appellant's counsel says that it is not niaterial that the very bonds
loaned shall be returned, so that an equal amount, with corresponding coupons, are returned. That this equal amount
may now be purchased by the city at fifty cents on the dollar
would seem to be conclusive, that when Brown & Co. are
charged with the bonds at fifty cents on the dollar, and the
city is credited with that sum, that the damage of the city
for the item in question is properly assessed.
But it is said that the city has not the money at command
to buy these bonds; that it cannot thus indemnify itself, and,
therefore, its loss is the fice of the bonds. This consideration can have no legitimate influence. Ak rule of law is based
upon principle, upon sound considerations of justice and
public policy, and usually as manifested by the precedents
* Story's Equity,

714 to 730.

Oct. 1873.]

CITY. OF MEMPHIS V. BROWN.
Opinion of the court.

and authorities. It is the same for all classes and conditions. None are so high as to be above its claims, nolie so
low as to be beneath its protection. "It will be a sad era in
the history of any country when the application of a rule of
law shall depend upon the wealth or the poverty of a party
to a suit; upon his wealth, which would thus enable him to
increase tfiat wealth, or his poverty,-which would be thereby
aggravated.
No court and no government can protect against the misfortunes of poverty. The unfortunate mortgagor who sees
his farm sold by his rigid creditoir for half it6 value, for the
want of money to redeemn it, receives our sympathy, but the
rules of law cannot be 'altered or suspended to aid him. So,
in the case before us, the law is the same, whether the city
of Memphis is in funds or whether it has no funds. The
value of its bonds in tlhe market is fifty cents -on the dollar. With that amount of money it catl now place in its
treasury the bonds which Brown & Co. fail to return. It
is difficult to see that the damage sustained can be beyond
that amount.
Whether the city.had the legal right to loan its nonds does
not seem to be a practical.question. It did loan them, and
the contractors received them. If not a loan, the transaction was a gift, which'will not be pretended; or it was a
loan of so miiili money as was realized by their sale. The
defence of usury is not set up in the pleadings, or. apparently claimed on the trial, and it cannot now be urged. We
assume the issue of the bonds to have been a legal transaction, and think the rule of damages for their non-retarn was
properly fixed by the master.
In Dana i. Fiedler,* the court say: "Complete indemnity
requir~es that the vendee shall receive that sum whicli, with
the price lie had agreed to pay,-w6uld enable him to buy the,
article which the vendox had. failed to deliver."
In Griffith v. Burdeh,t being a suit for the conversion of
-a State bond, the court say:" "Another rule, eqqally well
t

2 Kernan, 48.

VOL. XX.

20

85 Iowa, 188.

CITY OF MEMPHIS V. BiROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

grounded and more frequently applied, is that the damages
ought to be such as will compensate the party for his loss.
In this case the plaintiff has lost his bond. Another like
bond of precisely equal value to the plaintiff can be purchased in the market for the amount of the verdict in this
case, the market value.. Hence the verdict compensates
him for his loss, and is the precise measure of damages."
These are the general rules upon the subject, and that
they control the question in the case before us, sufficiently
appears from numerous authorities.*
II. It is insisted, secondly, by the appellants that Brown
& Co. cannot maintain a, suit on the paving contracts, for
the reason that by the resolution and contract of November
20th, 1868, Brown & Co. released the city from all liabilities upon the paving contract, unless it should be decided
by the caurts of last resort that the property-holders are not
liable to pay for the same.
[This resolution, and the contract of November 20th reciting it, are set forth, supra, p. 295.-REP.]
In deciding upon the effect of this contract the situation
and condition of the parties are to be considered. Brown
& Co., the contractors, had embarked in an enterprise involving the expenditure of nearly a million of dollars. The
property-owners refused to pay the assessments made upon
them. The city, was not able oP was not willing to meet its
gun inty of payment, and was indebted to the conlractors
in the amount of several huudred thousand dollars. The
contractors must have relief or go to thevall, as their predecessors had done. They applied to the city for that relief, and instead of making payments, the city'undertook to
make a loan of its bonds. It imposed harsh and severe conditions which nothing except-the financial desperation of
the contractors could justify them in accepting. Their claim
against the city for the amount of work done was valid, and
Griffith v. Burden, 35 Iowa, 138; Wheeler v. Newbould, 5 Duer, 87;
Brown v. Ward, 3 Id. 660; Brightman v. Reeves, Executor, 21 Texas, 70;

Tracy v. Talmage, 14 New York, 16-2-191.

Oct. 1873.]

CITY OF MEMPHIS

v.

BrLOWN.

307

Opinion of the court.

the amount was then payable. There was no good reason
why they should delay a.call for its present payment, especially none for its delay until the last possible chance of litigation in the State courts was exhausted. There.was no good
reason why the large sum due from the city should be thus
indefinitely suspended in consideration of a loan of bonds
to the nominal amount of $175,000,-but which were worth
some $80,000 only, about one-fourth of the amount actually
owing to the contractors.
It is not necessary to decide whether this presented a case
of moral duress, which in equity avoids the contract, or
whether a contract can, under any circumstances, be so
avoided. It is sufficient to say that it is a hard and oppressive contract, that if the pound of flesh is exacted the party
must take care that he violates no law of the State in obtaining it. Before the court will sanction the exaction of
conditions so harsh and oppressive it will be careful to know
that every stipulation on the part of the creditor has been
fully performed..
As the consideration for the release, the city undertook
and promised to deliver to the contractors one hundred and
seventy-five one-thousand dollar pavement bonds, and to deliver the same as rapidly as the same could be executed by
the officers of the city.
How the city performed this agreement is stated by 'he
master in his report.*
Iii the performance of this contract, to which assent was
given by Brown & Co. to obtain immediate relief, we find,
first, that there was great delay in delivering $140,000"of the
bonds. Delay, we may well assume, was a serious injury to
the contractors. Their necessities brooked no delay. Delay
was nearly as bad as a refusal.
We find, secondly, that $35,000 of the bonds were never
delivered.
We find, thirdly, that this non-delivery was wilful on the
part of the city authorities; and-fourthly, that they applied
* Set out, supra, pp. 295, 296.-REP.

CITY OF MlEMPIirs

v. BawN.

[Slip. Or.

Opinion of the court.

in payment of the other debts of the city the bonds thus
pledged and appropriated to Brown & Co.
After taking ,dvantage of their necessities to make a hard
and oppressive bargain with those whose necessities placed
them at the mercy of any one having money, or the means
of raising money, they, wilfully and deliberately refuse to
perform their part of the agreement. It is difficult to un'derstand how parties standing before a court of equity can
ask for the enforcement of a contract thus 'iolated by
themselves.
The letter of credit was a shift to avoid a.direct refusal to
deliver the bonds as agr'eed. As stated by the master, these
letters have no single element of a commercial acceptance.
They are equally destitute of every quality by which money
could be raised upon their credit. The city had already
violated its agreement by delay in issuing the $140,900 of
bonds. It was violated again in the delivery of these letters
instead of the bonds themselves. What security had any
capitalist that further shifts and contrivances would not be
resorted to to avoid the delivery of the bonds? None whatever; and it could not be otherwise than, as the fact proved,
that they would be unavailing to Brown & Co. for the purposes required by them.
The agreement of November 20th was, in substance, an
executory agreement for an accord and satisfaction. The
release was to operate when the city actually loaned the
bonds, not when it agreed to loan them. It is set up in the
pleadings as an accord and satisfaction, and full performance
is averred. The consideration for the release was wholly
executory, and it was never performed; but the release was
dependent entirely on such perf)rmance. The language of
the release is this: "And upon the further consideration
that the said contractors wi-release the city upon all liabilities upon said paving contract, unless it shall be 'decided,:'
&c. Ther6 is no present release, but an agreement to release based upon the performance of the considerations specified. The performance thiing, the agreement to release
goes with it. It. is a case not vhere the value of the bonds

Oct. 1873.]

CITY OF MEMPHIS

v.

BROWN.

Opinion of the court.

is sought to be recovered,,but where a forfeiture is sought
to be enforced. In 1 Smith's Leading Cases it is said :* "The
accord must be executed, and a mere executory agreement
can never be pleaded as an accord and satisfaction." Again:
"If .part of the consideration agreed on be not paid the
whole accord fitls."
Many other considerations might be added. to show the
invalidity of the claim we are considering. A single-one only
will be mentioned. It is'shown that the court of last'resoft
of the State of Tennessee has recently decided that the
property-holders are not. liable to pay for this pavement.t
The appellate court in equity would scarcely overrule a decision of-the court.below made under such circhmstances,
were it conceded that the law was prematurely held by that
court to be as iris now found by-the court of last rdsort in
that State, and- although the suit was coimenced prior to
such actual adjudication.
We hold that thi's objection is not well taken.
III. It is alleged also that there was- error in decreeing the
city to be liable for the payment of the cash contracts, by
reason of their guaranty or for-any other reason.
The general incorp6ration act of the State 'of Tennessee
gives to cities of the State full power to provide for the
paving of streets, alleys, and sidewalks.
The charter of this city declares that "1the board of mayor
and aldermen shall have power to imprbve, preserve, and
keep in good repair the streets, sidewalks, public landings,
and squares of.the city."
It provides also, that the city may require lot-ow-ners to
improve the streets fronting their lots, and that "should any
owner fail to comply with any ordinance requiring him to
repair, grade, and pave the same, the mayor and board of
aldermen may contrict with some suitable peirson for repair:
ing, grading, and paving the same, and pay therefor," and,
collect the amount of the lot-owner.
. Seventh American edition, 604 (*445) ; 605 (*44& American note, wihere
numerous cases are cited in support of the principles laid down.
f- See Taylor v. Hart.

CITY OF MEMPHIS

v. BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

By the contract in question, the contractors agreed to do
the paving specified, and the city agreed "to pay or cause
to be paid to the'parties of the second part" the price specified " upon the following terms of payment, to wit: Upon
the completion of each section, the contractor shall receive
from the ownier of lots fronting onl said section one-half of
the price of the same in cash, the remaining half to be paid
by the owners in thirty, sixty, and ninety days, they giving
their notes for the same, with the lien fixed by the charter
retained in the notes. The city of Memphis will and does
hereby guarantee to the contractors the payment of said accounts as so assessed against the property-owner."
It is said that about half of these assessments have been
paid by the property-owners, that the residue of the lotowners have refused to pay. The statutes referred to give
the city ample power to undertake the work of paving, and
to contract to pay for the same.*
The charter also gives the city power to issue bonds of the
city to be 'used for paving the principal streets of the city.t
Under this authority the city passed an ordinance providing
for the issue of city bonds to the amount of $900,000 for the
purpose of paving the streets and alleys of the city.1
These references show full authority in the city to make
contracts for paving, to be paid for in cash, as was done in
the.first contract, or in the bonds of the city, as was done in
the case of the second contract.
General power and authority over the subject is by law
given to the city, and the power also vested in the city to
require that the cost may be assessed, upon the adjoining
owner, does not impair the power of the city itself to do the
work.§ It is permissive merely. The city may require the
owner to pay, but it is not compelled to do so.
In the contracts we are now considering, the following
provision was contained: "The city of Memphis will and
does hereby guarantee to the contractors the payment of
said accounts as so assessed against the property-owner or
Bridge's Digest, 132.
1lb. 110.

f 1b. 192, 233.
Ib. 140.

Oct. 1878.]

CITY OF MEMPHIS v. BROWN.
Opinion of the court.

owners for the pavement according to the. phins and specifications." It will be perceived that this is a guarantee of
payment, and not of collec'tion merely, and upon which,
upon general principles of law, a suit may be commenced
against .the grantor without any previous suit against the
principal.*
The thirty, sixty, and ninety dayshad longpassed, and
the payments had not been made by -the owners. These
periods, we think, furnish the limit of' delay, that could have
been contemplated., before the city became lialle to pay..
Numerous authorities aie cited in the brief of counsel and
in the .learned opinion of the circuit judge, to show that,
upon a contract thus worded, the city is liable in a suit
brought by the contractor. They fully sustain the posi.tion.
The fact, however, that the Supreme Court of Tennessee has
now decided that an assessment upon the property-owner for
this expense is void, as in violation of the constitution of
the State, would seem to render much discussion unnecessary. The work.was done under a contract with and by the
employment of the city; the claim of the cotlictor is upon
his contract, to which the city alone- is the counter party.
A particular mode in which payment was expected to be
obtained, fails. The city cannof allege the illegality of the.
proposed detail of payment as,.a defence to itself.. It it
"caused" the owners to pay, that was well. If it failed n
that, as it has, both in fact and in law, its guarantee (if
payment remains in force.t
IV. It is further alleged that there was' error in holding
the city liable for the paving under the bond contracts, as
after the modifications agreed upon, the contracts, it is said,
contained no agreement by the city to pay or to guarantee.
In the bond contract, dated July 16th, 1867, the underCompany v. Howard,' 7 Wallace, 407; Zabriskie v. Railroad:
*Railroad
Company, 23 Howard, 381; Leggett v.Raymond, 6 Hill, 641.
t Kearney v.city of Covington, 1 Aietcalfe (Ky ), 339; Baldwin v.Cityof Oswego, 2 Keyes, .141 ; Sleeper v. Bullen, 6 Kansas, 307; City ot Louisville v.Hyatt, 5 B. Monroe, 199; Cummin v. Mayor of Brooklyn, 11.P~ige,
596; Manice v.City of New York, 8 New York, 180.

CITY OF

MEMPHIS v.

BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

taking of the city was direct to make payment to the contractors ir the work done, in the bonds of the city. There
was no provisidn for assessment, no reference to propertyowners, and no guarantee of payment. This agreement was
subsequently modified as to the amount to be paid ibr certain portions of the work and as to the form of payment,
with a provision for assessment and collection of certaini portions thereof, as had been made in the cash contracuts, and
which contracts were declared to be binding on the parties
respectively.
The principles laid down in considering the last preceding objection control this one also. The contract was made
wI1th the city, and it cannot evade its'payment, whether contracted to be paid for directly or through other persons, or
by an illegal assessment. The latter contract contains no
abandonment or waiver of the original agreement of the
city to pay for the work. Such waiver cannot be presumed
or implied.
V. By the report of the master there was found to be due
to Brown & Co., from the city, and which went to make up
the balance, the following item, viz.: "3d. To damage suffered by fTilure of the city to guarantee and provide for the
payment or paving bonds as stipulated, $115,216."
In the judgment of the court, rendered in November, 1872,
this item was reduced from the sum of $115,216 to $89,808,
and as thus modified the item forms a portion of the judgment in the case. The allowance of this item is the fifth
ground of error a!lleged by the appellant.
By the contract ternihed the bond contract the contractors
undertook to do the work mentioned at prices specified.
The city undertook to pay for the same " in Memphis City
paving bonds, payable in five, ten, and fifteen years, iif equal
proportions, with six per cent. coupons attached, payable
semi-annually, principal and interest guaranteed and provided fir by a sinking fund set aside for that purpose.
Bonds -to be taken at par"
I Several questions arise Upon this objection which it is
is argued that this breach
not necessary to discuss. Thus it.

Oct. 1873.]

CITY OF MEMPHIS V. BROWN.

813

Opinion of the court.

of the contract had occurred before the assignment of the
contracts to Brown & Co., that the assignment was taken
and assented to by the city, upon the request of Brown &
Co., without suggestion of claim fbr compensation on that
account, and that they are estopped now to make such claim
again. It is insisted that the duty of providing a fund for
redeeming the bonds Was a ministerial duty, which could be
enforced by mandamus, and for which no other remedy exists, and that this remedy still remains.
We pass by the consideration of these points, and place
our objection t9 the allowance of the item in question upon
the ground, first, that the damages allowed are not in their
nature capable of legal computation, that there is no legal
standard by which they can be fixed, that they are shadowy,
uncertain, and speculative.
The claim is based upon the theory that if the city had
provided a sinking fund, which it did not do, Brown & Co.
could have sold the bonds which wer'e delivered to them for
a greater price than they were, in fact, able to obtain for
them.
The evidence on the subject was from four bankers or
stockdealers in Memphis. The evidence of the first one examined, Mr. Elder,' is as follows:
"Q. State, if you know, what establishes thie market value
in Memphis of bonds and stocks, or how the market value
in this city is affected by the New York market.
"A. They are governed by the New York market.
"Q. State what has been the cash market value of Memphis City thirty-year six per cent. bonds, in New York and.
this city, from 1st day of January, 1868, to 1st January, 1871.
"A. The range here has been from forty-six to fifty-two
cents on the dollar. Personally, I know nothing of the New
York price, but the price- here would be regulated.by the
price there. The value of the bonds has been depressed by
the ftilure to pay the interest.
"Q. -State, if you know, the market value, in this city
and in New York, from 1st January, 1868, to 1st January,
1871, of Memphis City short bonds, running five, ten, and

CITY OF MEMPHIS V. BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

fifteen years in equal proportions, with six per cent. coupons
attached, payable semi-annually', principal and interest guaranteed and provided for by a sinking fund set aside for that
purpose.
"A. My opinion is that if the sinking fund had been actually provided, and placed in the hands of a trustee, such
bonds would have been worth from eighty-five to ninety
cents on the dollar.
"Q. State whether or not the city of Memphis ever placed
any money in your hands, as trustee, for the payment of
either principal or interest oil the paving bonds alluded to
in the last question and answer; if yea, when, and how
much, and whether you so applied it.
"A. The city never placed any money in my hands for
any such purpose."
The testimony of Mr. Murphy, a banker, -was as follows:
" Q. What, in your judgment, would have been the market value of the bonds described in the last question and
answer during the period and at theplaces referred to, had
the city guaranteed and provided for the payment of the
bonds, principal and interest, by a sinking fund set aside for
that purpose ?
"A. Had such fund been actually collected and placed in the
hands of trustees of known integrity, and that fact generally
known by the community here and in the Eastern cities, in
my opinion such bonds would be readily sold from eighty to
ninety cents on the dollar."
The evidence of the other bankers did not differ materially
from that of Elder and Murphy.
In the report of the master, the damages allowed were
based upon the conclusion that the bonds would have been
worth eighty-five cents on the dollar if the sinking fund bad
been provided, and the difference between this value and
the market value of the bonds as they were, made up the
sum of $115,216. The circuit judge fixed the value of the
bonds upon the same evidence at seventy-eight cents on the
dollar, and reduced the item by some $25,000.
It will ,be seen upon this statement of the facts that the

Oct. 1873.]

CITY oF MEMPHIS v. BROWN.
Opinion of the court.

bankers allowed themselves a range of ten per cent. in the
value of the bonds to be guarinteed by the cityj and that the
master and the circuit judge diihred to the extent of seven
per cent. in estimating their value. These differences and
the reasons gi ven furnish a strong illustration of the shadowy
and unsubstantial character of the claim.
The master reaches his conclusion by finding for what
sum the contractors were willing to do the work in cash,
for what sum they would do the same work for guaranteed
bonds, and from these facts he reaches a conclusion of the
cash value of the bonds as estimated by the parties. He
argues further that if not actually worth eighty-five cents,
they might have been so placed by the contractors as to be
worth that rate to them.
The learned judge, on the other hand, repudiates these
views, and says that the question is not what the parties
estimated the bonds to be worth, as they might have been
and most likely were mistaken in their estimate of value,
but that the sole question is the market value.
The answer to the argument of the master appears to be
a good one, but we think the argument of the judge is no
sounder.
How can there be a correct market value of that which
never existed? A. contracts to deliver to B., on the first
day of October, one thousand bushels of merchantable winter
wheat. He delivers the quantity of wheat, but it is spring
wheat, is dirty, musty, and unsound. The damages, the
difference or value. between the article agreed to be delivered and that actually delivered, are readily ascertained.
The unsound wheat is there, and the sound, merchantable
wheat is there. But it would be very difficult to estimate
these damages if sound wheat had never been bought or
sold; if, in fact, it had never existed. It would have been
equally difficult if the value of standard wheat should be
claimed to be more valuable when held by one man than
when held by another. By this is meant to indicate the uncertainty and unknown character of what is termed a sinking fund set apart for that purpose by the city of Memphis.

CITY OF MEMPHIS v. BROWN.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

This uncertainty is well illustrated by the evidence of the
witnesses beflbre quoted. Mr. Elder says that if "1the sinking fund had been actually provided and placed in the hands
of a trustee, such bonds would have been worth from eightyfive to ninety cents on the dollar." But the city did not undertake to raise the sinking fund in advance, nor at any
time to place it in the hands of a trustee, beyond their own
control. It would have been as easy to have paid the cash
as to have done this.
Mr. Muribpy'says: "Had such fund been actually collected
and placed in ihe hands of trustees of known integrity, and
that fact generally knowit by the community here and in
the Eastern cities, in my opinion the bonds would be readily
sold fron eighty to ninety cents on the dollar." The witnesses make the value of the sinking fund depend upon
these conditions: 1st. It should be actually collected in advance. 2d. It should be placed in the hands of trustees.
3d. These trustees should be persons of known integrity.
These conditions the city never undertook to perform. It
was not expected by either party that the money should be
raised in advance, or that it should be beyond the control
'of the city when or so far as raised. When the city made a
pretence or an attempt at raising such a fund it was only
by directing that a certain portion of its income should be
placed in the hands of its own officers as trustees, and,, of
course, subje6t to its own control. When paving bonds to
the amount of $900,000 were authorized by law, and were
executed, the city officers used them at pleasure for the
ordinary.purposes of the city, regardless of the special purpose for which they were created. What security had any
personthat they would not do the same with any sinking
fund in their possession ? No time was specified within
which the fund should be raised or commenced; no rate or
proportion for any year or years was fixed upon. It was
wholly indefinite and uncertain.
The witnesses were quite right in their statement of what
constituted a valuable sinking fund.
The market value of a bond security depends chiefly upon

Oct. 1873.]

CITY OF MSMPHIS V. BRowN.
Opinion of the court.

the confidence or want of confidence in its ultimate payment.
Its immediate convertibility enters largely, into the question.
United States six per cent. bonds sell at this time at about
twenty per cent. above par. Immediately previous to the
late civil war, and during the early part of the contest, they
sold at prices iuinously low. The existence of the government and the payment of its bonds were then doubtful.
The solvency and the good faith of the government are now
undoubted, and its bonds are convertible into money as
readily as one species of money may be converted into another. Seven per cent. bonds of the State of New York sell
at about seven per cent. above par. Missouri sixes sell at
about ninety-five per cent., or five per cent. below par. Of
the corporate bonds of railroads secured by mortgage, those
of the Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy road (eight per
cents) are quoted at one hundred and tell, the Michigan
Southern and Northern Indiana (seven per cent.) at one
hundred and five, Cleveland and Toledo (seven per cent.) at
one hundred and'three. The aecumulation of interest may
make slight difference'in some instances, as exemption from
taxation may enhance the price of United States securities.
These references are made.to show how vgriable and beyond
any principle of calculation is the market price of securities,
each as good as securities can well be. The genuine recognized bond of the State of New York affords as complete
security for the return of the principal and the regular payment of the interest as does a United States bond, but
although bearing one per cent. greater interest, its selling
price is thirteen per cent, less than that of a United States
bond. Liability to taxation can explain but a small portion
of this difference. Corpqrate bonds as perfect in their character as such securities can be, show a like variation.. Memphis City bonds of the ordinary character sold at about fifty
cents on the dollar at the time the present bonds were issued.
No man can undertake to say that this price would be essentially increased or how much by a sinking fund like that we
have discussed.
The value of a Memphis City bond, guaranteed by a sink-

CITY OF MEMPHIS

v.

BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ing fund of the city,-depended first upon a confidence or
want of confidence in the resources of the city. If it was absolutely unable to pay its debts a promissory sinking fund'
would not raise its credit to any perceptible extent. The
value depended next upon the public estimate of the honesty
and good faith of those having the city afiairs in charge. If
they were tricky, dishonest, and unprincipled persons, who
would not scruple to misapply or pervert a sinking fund,
their bonds would be of little value. A dishonest person is
an unsafe debtor. There is no satisfactory evidence of the
resources of the city, and certainly no satisfactory evidence
that a sinking fund would be of any practical value to the
bondholders. The city was liable for the face of the bonds
in any event, and that was all there was o'f the obligation.
W'e are of the opinion, upon this view of the contract before us, that there was no legal standard by which the damages claimed could be measured, and no legal evidence that
such damages existed. The principles and ideas upon which
the alleged damages are claimed cannot be reduced to a
money standard. They do not form the subject of legal
calculation in dollars and cents.
"2d. We think that Brown & Co. are not now at liberty
to
claim damages for the non-existence of the sirking fund.
They were quite aware of the provision in the contract for
the sinking fund. They knew that this provision had not
been made; they received the bonds as a performance, without objection or protest, and made no demand that this provision should be complied with. They have never offered
'to return the bonds; they are now outstanding, a valid claim
against the city to their face. This was a waiver.*
3d. They negotiated the bonds. They negotiated the
coupons. These securities are still outstanding against the
city. Whatever claim there may be for a sinking fund, or
for damages for the want of it, would seem to belong to the
holders of the bonds, and not to the party to whom issued.
The right to a fund for redemption of a bond, to enforce it
* Reed v. Randall, 29 New York, 858.

Oct. 1873.]

OiTY OF MEbfPHIS V. BROWN.
Opinion of the court.

by mandamus, or to ask damages for its violation, is an incident of the bond, attached to and inseparable from it.*
There cannot be a cause *of action in one to recover the
whole face of the bond and interest, and in another to. recover damages for the want of a collateral security to the
bond. The allowance of damages now to Brown,& Co. will
be no defence to a claim for the whole face of the bond, to
be made by the holder 6f it. The city would thns be liable
to pay the face and interest of the bond to the holder after
having paid twenty-eight per cent. to Brown & Co. for the
absence of a guaranty of the payment of the same bond.
This cannot be sound law.
VI. In the accounts allowed by the master, and sustained
by the tourt, were the following items, viz.:
"4th. To cash paid as the reasonable value of the services
of attorneys employed to prosecute special assessments, by
request of the city, $10,000.
I" 5th. To the value of services in the collection of special
assessments or paving bills, without process of law, by request of the city, $25,000."
The allowance of these items constitutes the sixth allegation of error. The items are closely akin, and may be considered together.
The ordinances of the city-of.Memphis required that the
city attorney should prosecute all suits to which the city
might be a party or in which it might be interested.
By the terms of the rash paving contracts it was provided
that the accounts for the paving should be made out by the
city engineer, and delivered to the contractors for collection,
and if not paid within ten days after the payment became
due "said accounts, or so much as shall be due and unpaid,
shall be placed in the hands of the city attoruey for collection under the city charter."
The duty of the parties under this stipulation is plain.
The contractors are to collect the accounts, so far as they
are able to do so, within ten days after the payment becomes
Tracy v. Talmage, 14 New York, 162; Oneida Bank v. Ontario Bank,
21 lb. 490.

I

3.M

CITY OF MuepHIs v. BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

due. They can demand no compensation for this duty,
however onerous or expensive it may be. It is a duty imposed upon them by the express terms of the contract.
After the lapse of ten days the burden is shifted, and the
duty falls upon the city, to proceed through the agency of
thei, attorney to collect the accounts. The contractors have
nothing to do with this further proceeding. They are not
bound to employ other attorneys, nor are they at liberty to
do so and charge the expense to the city. Taking the contract as a guide, the matter seems too plain for a,',,nient.
But it is said that these services were rendered by the
contractors at the request of the city, and that the emlployment of the additional attorneys was also at the request of
the city. We think this is not an answer to the objection.
1st. This paving contract was entered into under i special
and restricted authority, and in a mode specifically pointed
out by the local law. The mayor was authorized to advertise fbr twenty days for proposals for doing the work according to the plans and specifications. The mayor and finance
committee were, therefore, authorized " to make and enter
into a contract with the lowest responsible bidder as to payments, time of completion, and under such restrictions as
they in'ay think best." The city engineer was then'directed
to make a plat of the work to be done, to lay before the
board an estimate of the entire cost of the improvement
under the contract, marking upon each lot the anmount for
which it should be liable, and which amount'was declared
to be a debt due fr-om the owner, and to be a lien upon the
lot.
This authority was pursued in making the contract. Bids
were sought by advertisement. Bids were made by different
parties. The bid of Taylor, McBean & Co. was ac.epted, as
the most fivorable to the city. The formal contract was
entered into under these stipulations. We think this contract camnot be rhodified, as if it were an ordinary contract,
made under the ordinary municipal authority. If the common council can vary it by assuming duties and waiving
obligations therein imposed upon the contractors, in respect

Oct. 1873.]

OITY

OF MEMPHIS

v.

BROWN.

Opinion of the court.

to the collection of the bills and the employment of attorneys, they may do it by increasing the.price to be paid for
the work. Instead of favoring the contractors to the extent
of $35,000, as is proposed in the present instance, they may
give them unlimited -favors. This idea is i hostility to the
entire scheme of advertising for bids, contracting with the
lowest bidder, fixing the amo'unt of the debt and lien of
each.lot-owner. We think th6 contract as made must be
abided by. It must be performed according to its terms.
2dly. The case fitils to show any variation of the contract
by authority of the city. . No act of the common council
appears giving sanction to the changes alleged to have been
made. "The mayor and the city attorney," one of the attorneys employed testifies," were apprised of the extraordinary
efforts we were making to effect collections without suit,
and approved the same and urged us to make all possible.
efforts. My recollection is that the city attorney advised
the safne course." The city engineer, Mr. Ballard and Mr.
Brown,, all testify oil this subject. In no instance is there
any other evidence of authority than that the mayor and
city attorney urged them to fnake great efforts in the collections, and advised them to retain counsel in'looking up titles
'and to aid in bringing suits. It is not suggested even that
the finance committee, which was the agent of the .city i n
making the contract, advised or assented to any chang6 in
its terms. We think that a contract entered into with the
solemnities observed in the present instance cannot be modified upon the evidence of authority here referred to. There
is no evidence that the city ever assented to the change.*
VII. It is also alleged as error that before the cause was
ready for a decree, and without settling the rights of the
parties, the court referred it to a master for an account, and
the master took ana stated the account under his own view
of the law and the facts,- and virtually decided the case instead 6f the court.
* Carroll v. St. Louis, 12 MIissouri, 444; Butler v. Charlestown, 7 Gray, 12;
Clough v. Hart, 11 American Law Register (N. S.), 95; Halstead v. Mayor
of New York, 3 Comstock, 430.
21
VOL. XX.

CITY OF MEMPHIs V. BROWN

ISup. or.

Opinion of Field and Bradley, JJ., concurring in the judgment.

In N~ovember, 1870, Messrs. Brown & Co. moved for an
order of reference upon the-notice already set out [see supra,
p. 297].
No exception was taken to the order of reference. No
exception was taken before the master. All the evidence
was presented that was desired by either party. Full justice
in this respect was attained, and we are of the opinion that
this allegation of error is not well grounded.*
The result of our bpinion is that the judgment is correct,
except as to the items hereinbefore discussed-of $89,608
damnges for the want of %sinking 'und, of $10,000 for the
services of attorneys, and $25,000 foe the plaintiff's services
in collecting the bills for paving. As to these there was
error.

.DECREE REVERSED, and the case remitted to the Circuit
Court with directions to enter a decree i r
ACCORDANCE WITH THESE VIEWS.

Justices FIELD and BRADLEY concurred in the judgment of reversal, but dissented from the opinion, they holding that the contractors ought to be charged with the full
amount of bonds received by them, inasmuch as the city of
Memphis had no authority to sell its bonds for less' than
their par value.
Field v. Holland, 6 Cranch, 25; Story v. Livingston, 13 Peters, 859; 2
Smith's Chancery Practice, 872; 'TroyIron and Nail Factory v. dorning, 6
Blatchford, 328.

