Oct. 1874.]

Oct.
LYON'V.
184.] POLLARD.'40

40)3

Syllabus.

hundred and eleven unpaid notes of the -company received
by -their predecessors have been deposited in court subject
to the company's order, and the failure to restore oi'-tend.er
the proceeds of one note, amotinting to six hundred aiid
sixty'six dollars, previously Paid, may be justified or -exY
plained on'gounds consistent with the repudiation of the
lease. Ratification of unauthorized acts of public agents,
or persons assuming to be public agents, can 6nly be, inferred from conduct indicating an intention to adopt the acts
and inconsistent with any other purpose. The alienation by"
sale or lease of any portion of the public levees and landings of the dity after the restoration of its civil authorities
could only be nade, if at all, by ordinance or rdsolution of
its common council, and it may be doubted whether there
could be a ratification of an unaditlorized alienatiorl, attempted by their predecessors, by any proceeding less direc
and formal.
I am of opinion, therefore, that the decree of the 'court
below should be-reversed, and the bill be dismissed.

LYON V. POLLARD.
1, Where a person agreed to serve in suiperintending a: large hotel foanother, at a compensation specified, either party being at liberty to terminate the contract on thirty days'-notice to the 6ther, and the.person
agreeing to superintend was ejected by the other on. less than thirty
days' notice, held, in a suit for damages b3y the party thus ejected-the'
general issue being pleaded and notice of special matter given-that the"
defendant might prove that the. party ejected, was unfit to perform his
duty by reason of the use of opiates, and by reason of unsound mental
condition..
2. Where by the terms of a contract a,'partv is bound to give' thirty days'
notice of an intention to terminate it, andhaving given the notice "fterr
wards waives it, he may in fact. renew the notice, though the form of his
communicati6n purport tp insist on the notice which he has waived;
and at the expiration of the required time the secolid document will
operate as a notice.

LYON V. POLLARD.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.
3. Though where, under a contract of hiring services, a party is bound to
give a certain number of days' notice to terminate it, it is not terminated until the full term of days has elapsed, yet where an action has
been brought for damages for a di-mis-al without the proper notice, a
notice of termination maly be given, though the full number of days has
not expired when an actual dismissal took place; this to show that the
plaintiff had a right now to serve but a portion of the thirty days.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Mrs. E. A. Pollard sued J. E. Lyon in the court below,
and declared on a written contract, by which Lyon agreed
to furnish the means of carrying on the St. Cloud Hotel, a
hotel of considerable size in the city of Washington, and
.Mrs. Pollard agreed to superintend and conduct it. For
this service she was to receive one-fifth of the net profits, in'
ascertaining which the rent paid by Lyon for the house was
to be excluded. Either party was at liberty to terminate
the contract by giving thirty days' notice in writing. The
breach alleged was that the defendant ejected the plaintiff
from the premises without having given the stipulated notice. U nder pleas which aniounted to the general issue, the
defendant undertook to show that he had given the notice
required, and under a special notice of what he won Id offer in
evidence, offered to prove thatthe plaintiff was unfit to per'form her part of the contract by reason of the use of opiates,
and by reason of her unsound mental cdidition. The court
refused to receive the evidence; and the defendant excepted.
The defendant then offered evidence of a service of notice
on the 11th July on the plaintif under the contract to terminate it. Also evidence of service of a notice on the 19th
-September, in this form:
ERROR

"MRS. B. A. POLLARD.
"M ADA"M: On the 11th

"September 19th, 1870.

of July last.I caused notice in writing
to be served upon you, which notice terminated the agreement
between us. .Inow notify you that the time specified in that
notice has fully expired, and that you are no longer superintendent
of this hotel, and no longer entitled to the appellation of proprietress.
"Respectfully,
"J. E. LYON."

Oct. 1874.]

LYON V. POLLARD.
Argument in support of the judgment.

Testimony was also giveuntending fo show that the first

not-ice had been waived or withdrawfi.
The plaintiff was dismissed on the 4th of October.
On this testimony the defendant asked the court to charge
that, even if the notice of July 11th had been wholly withdrawn, the subsequent notice of September 19th was- in
legal effect a renewal of it, and of itself operated to terminate the contract at the expiration of thirty days from its
date.
This prayee the court refused to grant; and verdict and
jud(gment having been given for the plaintiff, the defendant
brought the case here on exceptions to the evidence, and to.
the refusal to charge as requested.
Mr. J. .H. Bradley, in support of the rulings and charge:
The court rightly refused the offers as to the use of opiates,
and as to the plaintiff's unsound mental condition. The
suit was for damages on a contract which if the plaintiff
failed to perform it, it was in the power of the defendant
to rescind on thirty days' notice. If a contract provides a
special mode of" putting an end t 9 it, that mode must be followed. Hlowever imperfectly the plaintiff may have performed her duties, so long as the defendant chose to accept
her performance, he was bound to pay her. in the manner
stipulated between them.
The next exception is directed to the charge of the court
on the subject of the notices. The charge was right.
Whether there was a waiver by the defendant of the notice
of July 11th, 1870, was purely a question of fact for the
jurors to determine, and was properly left to them. If they
found that it was waived by the defendant, it became extinct; and could not be revived by tlhe defendant.
The notice of the 19th September, 1870, could not then.
have been made a renewal of its predecessor.
Nor is it a good notice operating of itself to terminate the
contract at the expiration.of thirty days from its date. It
does not propose or pretend to be a notice toltake effect at
a future day, but sets up a former notice that .the plaintiff

LYON V. POLLARD.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

was holdino over against that notice after the term expired,
and is, if anything, a demand of immediate possession.
Messrs. Davidge and Cox, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The offers, as to the use of opiates and the unsound mental condition, are the subjects ;f the first bills of exception.
We do not agree with counsel that, for the insanity of
plaintiff, or her mental incapacity to perform her part of the
contr'act, wh'ether from natural infirmities or fi'om the use
of o')ium, the only remedy of the defendant is an action
against her on the contrAct. The plaintiff was employed to
perform important and specific duties. Her compensation
for this was to be one-fifth of the net proceeds of the business which she had agreed to superintend. If she rendered
herself, 'or otherwise became, incapable of performing these
duties, that of itself authorized defendant to rescind or terminate the contract. He was not bound to continue as the
superintendent of a large hotel a person who was a lunatic, or
who was so stupid under the influence of narcotics that her
presence was a danger and an injury, and who could .'ender
no reasonable service. The contract on her part implied
some capability of performing the duties she had assumed,
of rendering, some service. If she could render none defendant was not bound to continue 't even for the thirty
days which the teimination of it by notice required. The
court below errejd in refusing to admit this evidence.
The defendant offered evidence of a service of notice on
the 11th July on plaintiff' under the contract, to terminate
it. Also evidence of service of a notice on the 19th September of his, intention to act on the first notice, and that
the time-had expired. Testiwony was also given tendi, g to
show a waiver or withdrawal of the first notice. The pintiff was dismissed about the 4th of October. On this testimony the coui't was asked by defendant to instruct the ju'y
that, even if the notice of July 11th had been wholly withdrawn, the subsequent notice of September 19th was in legal

Oct. 1874.]

AVERY. V. HiCKmEY.

.

4
407,

Statement of the case.

effect a renewal of the fbrmer:notice, and of itself operated
to ter~minate the said contract at the expiration of -thirty
days "from its date.
Assuming as the bill of exceptions seems to show- that
the dat of the notiC: of September 19th was the date of
its service on plaintiff,, we -think the cbiurt erred in refusing,
this prayer.
The only object or purpose of any hotice in the case was
-to apprise the 'party on. whom it' N*-s served that the other
party intended to terminate the'coutraot. The contract itself
fixed the time when this should take place, namely, thirty
days after the. Serhice. The fact that the notice refers to a
past notice and speaks of the termination, of the cont 'act as
being already accomplished, does not destroy its effect as a'
notice of preseit intent to -put an end to the arrangement.
This notice of intent the cofitract makes effectual at the end
of thirty datys, and so the court was asked to instruct the
jury. In declining to do this the, couit left'the jury to infer
that it'had no'effect whatever.
It is probabld that if the first notibe'was wholly waived or
abandoned the defendant had no rigbt to dismiss the plaintiff until 'the i9th day of'October. But even in reference
to damages defendant had a. right to' show tha k under the
contract and the notice she had only fiie'en days to remain,
and was inju:ed only to that extent.*
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

AVERY V. HACKLEY.
A valid lien is not divested by the mere fact of the holder of it subsequently.
taking a transfer of the equity of redemption made to him with a view
of giving to him a preference, and in violation of the Bankrupt 'Act.
The transfer of the equity of redemption of course is void.

ERROR to the Circuit Conrt for the Western District' of
Michigan..
A.very, assignee of Blake, a. bankrupt, brought trover in

