SIMPSON V. GREELEY.

[Sul). Or.

Statement of the case.

to be sued and served personally with process cannot avail
himself of the statute of limitations, if the time prescribed
by it to bar such action has elapsed before it was commenced.
The liability to, suit where process can at all times be served,
must in the nature of things be the test of the running of
the statute. A different -rule applied to an individual because he is a citizen or resident of anotlier State, is a violation at once of equal justice and of the rights confei'red by
the second section of the fourth article of the Federal Constitution, that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to
all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several
State$.
I can hardly believe, therefore, that the New York statute
means that if two men doing business in adjoining houses
.i the city of New York, one may avail himself of the statute, of the State for limitation of actions, when the time
prescribed. has elapsed, because he is a citizen of that State,
while the other cannot because he is a citizen of New Jersey,
when each has been equally and always.liable to service of
process. Nor do I believe, on a review of all the cases, that
the courts of New York have intended to give such a construction to those statutes.
My brother STRONG agrees with me in these views.

SIMPSON V. GREELEY.
The doctrine settled in Williams v. Bank (11 Wheaton, 414), and declared in
Masterson v. Herndon (10 Wallace, 416), to be 11the established doctrine
of the court "-that allthe pqrties against whom a joint judgment or
decree is rendered inust join in theowrit of.error or appeal, or it will b'e
dismissed, except sufficient cause for the non-joinder be shown-again
adjudged.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Kansas.
Carlos Greeley sued William A. Sim'psO and eight other
persons in one of the county courts of Kansas, to recover

Oct. 1873.]

SIMPsoN v.

GREELEY.

Argument for dismissal.

certain lands, together with damages for the detention of
them; and fir waste committed by the whole nine.
'The nine defeidants filed a joint answer.
The plaintiff replied; and after a trial judgment was
given"That the plaintiffs have and recover of and front scaid defendants the lands and tenements described in the declaration ; that
they also have and recover of the said William A. Simpson the
sum of $4300, the value of the rents, issues, and profits of said
lands and tenements, and for the timber taken from said land-.
by the said defendant; that the plaintiffs also have and rbeover
of the other defendants the sum of $2600, to be credited as part of
the said $4300, if collected, it being the value of the rents above
found."
Simpson-none of his co-defendants joining-filed a petition in error to the Supreme Court of Kansas, alleging that
the consent of none of his co-defendants could be obtained
to join him iii the proceeding. However, very soon afterwards they all did file a petition in error just like 'his own,
and praying that the judgment rendered against them be
reversed, for the causes and reasons set fbrth in his petition.
The Supreme Court of Kansas affirmed the judgment, and
a mandate was issued out of that court reciting,
"That a judgment in a certain civil action, wherein Carlos
Gireeley et AL. were plaintiffs, and William A. Simpson et AL. were
defendants, was rendered by the latter court in favor of the said
Greeley et AL., on a transcript of which judgment and record
said Sinpson et AL. prosecuted a petition in error to the Supreme
Court within and for the State of Kansas."
From this judgment ot the Supreme Court of the State,
Simpson alone took this writ of error, assigning no cause
why the others were not joined.,
Mr.W. T. Otto (with whom was Mr. J. P. Usher), preliminary to argument upon the merits, asked to have the writ
dismissed, observing that it was obvious that the whole nine
original defendants were, plaintiffs in error in the Supreme

SIMPSON v. GREELEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

Court of Kansas, aind that a joint judginent affirming the
judgment of the inferior court had been rendered against
them. It was perfectly settled, he observed, that such a
writ as the present one would be dismissed, there havingbeen no eforl made by Simpson to have the other co-defendants
join in it, and no cause shown or alleged why they did not.*
Mr. TV. IV. iVevison, conti-a.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Fee simple title is claimed-by the present defendants to
the several tracts of land described ii the declaration, and
they commenced an action of ejectmeut to recover the possession of the same, and for the rents and profits, and for
the value of certain timber which, as they allege, the defendants have cut thereon and converted to their own use.
Eight other persons besides the present plaintiff were
joined as defendants in the suit, and they were all duly
served with process and appeared and made defence in the
first District Court of 'the State where the writ was returnable.
. Two defences were set up, as follows: (1.) They, the defendants, denied every allegation and averment of the declaration. (2.) They pleaded that the title to the several tracts
ofland was in William A. Simpson; that he acquired the
same in the manner and by the means circumstantially set
forth in their second plea, and that the other defendants are
in the possession of the said several tracts as tenants of the
said Simpson, and have large and valuable crops growing
thereon, and that they hold the same by lease from the actual
owner of the title. Wherefore, they, the defendants, pray
and demand judgment against the plaintiffs, and that the
plaintiffs be enjoined and restrained from ever claiming,
suing for, or setting up any title to the said §everal tracts of
land, or, either of them, or any part or portion thereof, and
that the'pretended estate and interest of the plaintiffs be
determined anrd wholly held for naught.
* See Masterson v. Herndon, 10 Wallace, 416.

06t. 1873.]

SIMPSoN V. GREELEY.
Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

Leave was granted to the' plaintiffs by. the' court to file a
reply, a nd they. did so, as more fully appears iii the record,
in which they controvert each and every of the- material
allegations of the answer, except that the defendanits are in
the possession of the premise§, oand allege thatthe principal
defendant acquir'ed the possession by wrongful and unlawful
means, and reassert their claim of title, as set forth in the
declaration. Subsequently the parties waived a jury aud
went to trial before the couit. Evidence was introduced on
both sides, and the court made numerous findings of fict
and seve'ral conclusions of law. Certain exceptions were
also taken botl 'to the rulings and the findings of the court.
Some delay followed, and both parties having been fully
heard the court rendered judgment as follows.: "That the
plaittiffs have and recover of ahd from said defendants the
lands and tenements described in the declaration. That
they also have and recover of the said 'William A. Simpson
the sum of $4300, the value of the rents, issues, and profits
of said lands and tenements, and for the timber taken from
said land by the said defendant. That the plaintiffs also
have and recover of the other defendants the sum of $ 600,
to be credited as part of the said $4300, if collected, it being
the value o( the rents above found."
Judgment was signed on the 15th of November, 1870,
and'on the following day the defendant, William A. Simpson, filed a petition in error and a transcript of the record
in the clerk's office of the Supreme Court of the State, -iu
which he represents that the othei defendants, naming each,
will not donsent to join in the petition, bbat the record shows
that all the other defendants, on the 12th of, January following, filed a peti tion in error in the Supreme Court, praying
that4h6 judgment rendered in the subordinate c6urt should
be reversed for the reasons stated in the petition of the first
petitioner.Due notice was given, by a summons issued under the
first petition, to the 'riginal plaintiffs and"all of the defend-ants except the first petitioner,.that the first petitioner had
fifed such a petiti6n and a transcript" of the record in ,he

SimpsoN v. GREELBY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion'of the court.

clerk's office of the State Supreme Court, but all of the perso110.1 110d as detndants in the original writ are also named
as such ill the sunmmns issued by the clerk of tlie State Sopl'ene Court. Service of the sunnons was duly acknowledged by the original plaintiffs and by all of the eight
defendants who did not sign tile first petition in error."
Sea.sonable entry of tle case was made ill the Supreme Colrt

of the State, and the parties having been fully heard the
said Supreme Court affirmed the decree of the subordinate
court and sellt down their mandate colmanding the subordi,,ate court to cause executioll to be had of the said judgmeat or tile said Supreme Court, according'to law.
Early application was made by the present plaintiff to the
clerk of the Circuit Court of the United States for that district for a writ of error, under the twentyfifth section of

the Judiciary Act, to remove the cause into this court, and
the record siows that it was duly issued and that it was
properly allowed by the chief justice of the State Supreme
Court.

Errors of a material character are assigned by the plaintiff as reasons for the reversal of the judgment rendered in
the State courts, but it is necessary ill the first place to examine the objection taken by the defendants to the j urisdic-

tion of this cou-'t, as that objection presents a preliminary
question which, if decided in favor of the defendants, will
dispose of the case.
They, the defendants, insist that the writ of error should
be dismissed because one only of the nine defendants in the
court below is made a party in the writ as issued by the
clerk of the Circuit Court, and because only one of the
number has given bond to prosecute the writ of error with
effect, as required by the act of Congress in such case inade
and provided.
Whe'e there was a joint judgment against several and
one only of the defendants sued out a writ of error, without
joining tle others, it was decided by this court, Marshall,
C. J., giving the opinion, that it was irregular, and the court

Oct. 1873.]•

SIMPSON v. GREELEY.
Opinion of the court.

dismissed the writ of error.* Subsequently the same rule
was applied in a case where the cause was removed into this
court by appeal, the opinion of the court being also given
by the Chief Justice.t - Reference was made in the opiuion
in that c'ase.to the former decision, but the coiirt-, not'relyiilg
merely on atithority, decided that it- was correct as matter
of 1,riiiciple that the whole cause ouglht to be brought before the court at'the same time, and that all 'the parties
united in interest ought to unite, in the appeal, as appeals
,re subject to the'sanie rules, reguhitions, anid restrictions
as are prescribed by law in case of writs of error. Since
those decisions wcre published the question has frequently
been pi'esented to this court, and has uniformly been deter.mined in the same way, where it :ippeared that the interest
was joint and that no severance had been effected cii!'er in
the judgment or-by subsequent summons and severance or
by some proceeding or an equivalent character.t Undoubtedly those cases show what, the .general rule is, but' it is
equally well established, where some of the parties in interest refuse to join in the writ of error or appeal, that the
others are entitled to resort to the process and proceeding
of summons and severance to enable them effectually to remove the cause from the subordinate court into the appellate trilunal for re-examination.§ Cases arise beyond all
doubt where only one of several defendants is affected by the
judgment or decree, and it is well settled that in such cases
the party whose interest only isaffected by the alged error
may carry up the case without jbining the others in the appeal or writ of error.11 Exceptional cases of the kind occasionally arise, but where the interest is joint and the interest
of allis affected by the jud.gment, the rule is universal, that
all must join in the w'it of error, else it i.s open to the other
Willi'nms -v. Bank, 11 Wheaton, 414. Kincannon, 7 Peters, 402.
Masterson v. Herndoi, 10 Wallace, 416; Hampton v. Rouse, 13 Id. 187.
Todd v. Daniel, 16 Peters, 523.
II Forgay v. Conrad; 6 How,ard, 203; Germain v. Mason, 12 Wallace, 261;
Cox v. United States, 6 Peter's, 182.

SOwings v.

SIMPsON v.

GREELEY.

[Sup. at.

Opinion of the court.

party to demand that it be dismissed, unless a severance of
the parties in interest has been effected by summons and
severance, or by some equivalent action appearing in the,
record.*
Apply that rule to the present case, and it is 'clear that
the writ of error must be dismissed, as 6ne only of the nine
defendants in the original suit is named in the writ of error;
nor is there anything in the record to take the case out of
the operation of the general rule, as the plaintiffs in the
court below have recovered judgment for the several tracts
of land described in the declaration, against all of the defendants therein joifned. Separate judgment for the damages and the whole of the rents and profits is rendered
against the present plaintiff; but the court also rendered
judgment against the other eight defendants for the amount
of the rents and profits, to be credited to the other defendant when collected, which shows that each defendant is interested in every part of the judgment.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is quite clear
that the writ of error in this case must be dismissed, as all
the defendants are directly or indirectly affected by the judg"mentin respect to the damages and rents, issues and
profits,
as well as the judgment that the title to the lands described
in the declaration is in the present defendants.. Such a controversy cannot be lproperly re-examined here by instalments, ior unless all the parties to be affected by the result
are before the court.
WRIT DISMfSSED.

* Smyth v. Strader, 12 Howard, 827; Davenport v.-Fletcher, 16 Id. 142;
Heirs of Wilson v. Insurance Company, 12 Peters,' 140; O'Dowd v. Russell,
14 Wallace, 402; Deneale v. Stump, 8 Peters, 626.

