Oct. 1874-.]

THE S. B.

WHEELER.

Statement of the case.

THE

S. B.

WHEELER.

1. The doctrine, over and over again ruled by this court, that when in admiralty cases involving questions of fact alone, the District and Circuit
Courts have both found in one vay, every presumption is in favor of the
decrees, and that there will be no reversal here unless for manifest error,
again declared.
2. Whether the absence of a lookout a'tthe bow'of d sailing vessel, though
at night, was or was not.a contributing fault to a collision, is a question
of fact, and where on a libel for a collision both the District and the Circuit Courts have held that it was not, the general rule of practice just
above stated, as to the effect of decisions by the two coarts in one way,
applies.
APPEAL from the Circuit Coui't forthe District of Massachusetts; the case being thus:
About one o'clock at night, on, the 18th of July, 1871, a
collision occurred in th6 Vihoyard Sound, between the.
schooners 0. F. Bcbe and S. B. Wheeler, by which the
Beebe was sunk and totally lost. Hereupon .her owners
libelled the Wheeler in the District Court for the District
of Massachusetts.
The libel alleged that the crew of the Beebe saw the green
light of the othei' schooner something more than a mile off,
and over their starboard bow; that the Beebe kept her
course until it became apparent that the Wheeler 'had
chanxed, and was still changing her course to starboard, so
as to make a collision inevitable, and until she was within
a hundred feet of the Wheeler, when the helm of the latter
was put to starboard, as the only thing that could be done
with any hope of escaping the collision or relieving the
force of the blow; that under this change of helm she had
fallen off about two points, when the Wheeler struck her
amidships on the starbo'ard side and cut her in two.
The answer set up that a red light was seen from the
Wheeler about a fnile distant and on the port bow; that the
master, who was in charge of the deck, kept his vessel off
,until the light was two points on his port bow, and then
VOL XX.

265

THE S. B.

WHEELER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ordbred the helm to be steadied, and that afterwards, when
sai~l light was about seventy yards distant, the vessel bearing the light, and which proved to be the Beebe,'suddenly
fell away from the wind in the direction of the Wheeler;
tlat the helnr of the latter was immediately put hard aport,
and that she fell away; but that the Beebe came down
across her bows rendering a collision unavoidable.
After hearing numerous witnesses on both sides (the testimony being conflicting, and that of the claimants disclosing the fact that their vessel had no lookout at its bow, and
no question of law being raised in the case), the District
Court having found various facts as established by the evidence, dismissed the libel with costs, and on appeal the Circuit Court affirmed the decree. Thereupon the libellants
appealed to this court, where the matter was again elaborately argued on the evidence.
Mr. J. C. .Dodge, for the apellants; Messrs. G. A. Somerby
and L. S. Dabney, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
Questions of fhct only are presented by this appeal. There
is no dispute as to the lawg. Two courts have already found
against the appellants. It has been over and over again
ruled by this court that under such circumstances the burden is on the appiellant to show the error. Every presumption is in favor of the decrees below. We ought not to
reverse unless the error is-clear. Such is not the case here.
It is, indeed, urged that the claimants, by their own proof,
established the fact that there was no lookout at the bo'w of
the Wheeler when the collision occurred. ,This is so, hut
whether that was a. contributing fault was a question of
fact, an d that has been twice found against the appellants.
We are entirely satisfied with all the findings.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

