NORTH MISSOURI RAILROAD V. MAGUIRE.

46

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

NORTH MISSOURI RAILROAD COMPANY V. MAGUIRE.
1. A contract by a State to give up its power to tax any property within it,
.can be made only by words which show clearly ind unequivocally an
intention to make such a contract.
2. The act of the legislature of Missouri of February 16th, 1865, to provide for the completion of thb North Missouri Railroad, does not so
show an intention of the State to give up its power to tax the property
of thecorporation owning that-railroad.
8. The ordinance'of the 8th'of April, 1865, adopted by the people of iissouri, anspart of the constitution of the State established on that lay,
was, & respected the North Missouri Railroad Company, a true exercise
of the ta:ing power of the State, and not a mere change of -the order
of disbursing the receipts of the earnings of the company as prescribed
by the act of legislature above named:
ERROR

to the Supreme Cotirt of Missouri, the case being

thus:
The North Missouri Railroad Company was incorporated
by act of the legislature Of Missouri, March 3d, 1851. By
an act of Januarv 7th, 1858, its charter was thus amended:
:"The capital stock, together ivith all machines, wagons, cars,
engines, or carriages belonging to the.company, together with
all their works or other property f .nd all profits which shall
'arise from the same, shall be vested in the respective shareholders
of the dompany forever, in proportion to their respective shares,
and the same shall be deemed personal estate, and shall be
exempt f.om any public charge or tax whAtsoever for the period
of five years from and after the passage of this act."
Under thle provisions of several acts of the State legislature betiveen the dat of- its incorporation, and the year
.1857, the State issued its own bonds for the benefit of the
road, reserving a mortgage on the road to secure their payment. -As between the State and the company the latter
was bounld to pay the bonds and interest on them,, and it was
provided tlat, in case thd company made default, the governor should foreclose the mortgage.

_About the year 1860 the company did make default in the
'payment of the interest on the bonds, and had.paid no part

Oct. 1879.]

NTORTH MISSOURI RAILROAD V. MAGUIRE.,

47-

Statement'of the case.

of either interest or the principal sihce. No sale, however,
was made of -the road, and on the 29th of March, 1868,

the legislature passed an act forbidding the governor to
make a sale until he should be required by it to do so.
,By an act of Febyruary 16th, 1865, meant to provide fo
the completion of the road, the'compa'ny'was authorized to
issue $6,000,000 of its mortgage bon'ds, which should have
priority over the mortgage of this State; and this 'to the

extent named, and no farther, was by the act made a second
lien.

The act provided for the appointment of a fulid

commissioner for the railroad company.. It then procedded:
"SECTION 5, And the said railroad company shall pay over
to the said fund comrhissioner all the, gross earnings and daily.
receipts of said corporation, which shall be kept in- deposit in
the blink, subj6ct to the daily draft of said fund c 6 mmissionerr
as the same may be required by said corporation for actual dis
bursement in operating said railroad, and- in carrying on the
ordinary business of said corporation, and for the other, purposes
hereinafter provided; and upon the failure of said company to
pay sa'd money to said fund commissioner, as herein pro'Vided,
the said company shall forfeit and pay to the State of Missouri,

for each and every such neglect or refusal, the sum of 810',000.
" SECrION 6. The said commissionef' shell pay over to the
said corporation, froin time to time, -out of the funds cbming
into his hands as aforesaid, the amounts required for purposes
of construction and equipment of said ra ilroad, upon vouchers
of the chief engineer,.and upon the vouchers of the treasurer
thlreof, he shall pay the amounts 'required for, operating said
railroad and carrying ou the ordinai'y business.,f saidcolpoqatior; and he shall pay and disburse the'funds in -the following
brder-of priority, to wit:
"First. To the said- corporation the amounts requifred, from
day to day, for the,actual 'current cxpenditures in operating
said railroad Lnd carrying on' the o-rdina'ry business of said corporation, including all 'u ns that may be necessary for keeping
said railroad in a good 'state of repair,"and all sums that 'May
be necessary, from timq to time, for ssie additions to the rolling
stock, buildings, and appurtenances of said road, as may be'required to 'en'able said corpora.tion.to-accommodate and transact
the business of their said railroad; and,,

48

NoRTH MISSOURI iRAILROAD V. MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statemient of the case.

"Second, the amount of his salary as fund commissioner, in
monthly instalments; and,
" Third, the interest upoh said mortgage bonds, as the same
shall fall due; Und,
"Fourth, the cost of construction and equipment of said railroad as aforesaid j and,
"Fifth, the accruing dividends on preferred stock, not exceeding six per cent. per annum thereon, in accordance with the
,previsions of this act in relation thereto; and,
"Sixth, the interest due on the outstanding bonds of the State
of Missouri heretofore loaned to said corporation; and,
"Lastly, the surplus remaining shall be applied to the payment of the principal of said first mortgage bonds until the
same shall be fully paid off, or, if more of said bonds shall have
become due, then to the payment of the principal of the said

bonds of the State of Missouri if any still outstanding; and the
balance shall be paid to the North Missouri Railroad Company,
and the said office of fund commissioner shall then cease and be
vacated.
" SEcTION 9. The holders of the bonds of the State of Missouri, heretofore issued to the North Missouri Railroad Company, ate hereby-authorized to convert the same, with interest
accrued thereon, into preferred stock of the North Missouri

Railroad Company, and the holders thereof shall be entitled to
receive a special dividend thereon, not exceeding the rate of six
per cent. per annum, in the manner and in the order of priority
above herein pfooided."

The thirteenth section provided for an acceptance of this
act by the stockholders, and enacted that in the event of
its being so accepted,
-' It shall be and become of full force and binding effect upon the
said corporationand the State of .Missouri."
The act was accepted in due form by the stockholders.
On the 8th of April, 1865, a convention of the people of
Missouri adopted "An ordinance for the payment of State
and railroad indebtedness." This ordinance levied on the
railroad company an annual tax of ten per oentum Qf all its
gross receipts for the transportation of freight and passengers, and. directed that it should be appropriated by the

Oct. 1878.J

NORTH MIssouRI RAILROAD V. MAGUIRE.

49

Argument for the company.

General Assembly to the payment of the principal and in
terest now due, or hereafter to begome due, upqu the bonds
of the State, and the bonds guaranteed by the State, lasued
to the company.
The provisions of the ordinance will be seen more fully
on pages 39-40, supra, beginning near the bottom 'of the
former page, at the place marked with a *
Under this ordinance, the assessor of St. Louis County
assessed $68,257 (being ten per cent.) upon the gross receipts
of the company from October 1st, 1866,, to October 1st,
1867, and delivered the same to one Maguire, collector of
-taxes, who, on the company?"s refusal to pay the bill, levied
upon its engines, cars, &c. The company thereupon sued
him in trespass in one-of the State courts,.where a case was
stated for the judgment of the court, and by which itwas
agreed that if the court sbould be of opinion that the ordinance referred to was unconstitutional, there should be
judgment for the company for costs and. nominal damages;
andif of the opinion that it was constitutional, judgment
for Maguire for costs.
The Supreme Court of Missouri, where the case finally
got-referring among other -lauses of the act of 1865, to
that which provided for the payment in the first place of
the "amounts required from day to day, for the actual current expenditures for carrying on the ordinary business of
the corporation "--within which it considered the payment
of taxes to fall-rendered judgment for Maguire, and the
company brought the case here.
One Jessup, who claimed the whole road under-a sale, also
stood in some way on therecord as a plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. C. Orrick, for the pli~intff -in error:
L The act of February 16th, 1865, is a contract between the
conipany and the State.
The act itself docl..res that if accepted by the stockholders
it shall become of full force and binding effect upon the
said corporation and the State of Missouri. The act was
accepted by the stockholders.
VOL. XX.

4

50

NORTH MISSOURI RAILROAD V. MAGUIRE.

[Sup.

Ct.

Argument for the coralany.

In addition, its' provisions contain, all the elements of a
contract. The railroad company was a corporation, vested
with certain fraichises under a charter from the State, and
the act of 1865 gives certain other franchises, and imposes
certain restrictions, which required the assent of the corporation to make them, valid, and the contract wa§: That the
State would release its lien to a certain extent; authorize
the company to issue $6,000,000 of first mortgage bonds,
and grant other privileges to the company, in consideration
that the Star6, through an officer of its own, should be permitted to take charge of all the funds and earnings of the
company, coming from whatever source, and disburse-them
in 'aparticular way, and for certain objects specified in the
act, amongst which was th'e payment of these very bonds
for which the State 'was liable, and the accrued interest
thereon-which the State had paid, and which had thus become a, debt due by the cohpany to the State.
'An important provision of the contract was that the interest on'the $6;000,000 of bonds and the dividends on-the
preferred stock should be paid before the interest or principal of the State bonds. The ordinance is a violation of this
contact. '
The ordinance, disregarding the obligation of the State
to pay, through its fund commissioner, out of the "gross
,earningsand daily reeeipts of the corporation" what might be
necessary to keep the road in a. good state of repair, and
-what might be necessary for such additions to the rolling
stock, buildings, and appurtenances of the road, as may be
'required to enable the corporation to accommodate and
transact the business of the road, the amount of salary to
the fund commissioner, the interest on the first mortgage
bonds as the same fell due, the cost of construction and,
equipment, the dividends on preferred stock, the principal
of the first mortgage bonds, to all of which the gross earnings were pledged before the principal of the State bonds
could be paid; provides for the levy of an assessment of ten
per cent. of all grass receipts for transportation of freight
.and passengers for two years, and fifteen per cent. thereafter

\°

Oct. 1873.]

NORTH MISSOURI RAILROAD V. MAGUIRE.

&1

Argument for the dompany.

for the' payment of the principal and iinterestof Ithese bonds until
.they shall be fully paid.
Thus it will 6e sden that the contiact-is impaired it! an
impoxtant particular.
I.

The questions 1hen left for consideration are:

First. Wheth.: the assessment 6f ten per cent. on tlfe
gross earnings'of the, road, provided for by the ordinance
of the convention, is a tax ?
Second. Whether, if it be considered a tax, there is'anything in th 6ct
of 1865 manifesting an,' ntention on the
part of the State to abandon the ilight of taxation ?
* As.4t the.first-point.it appears by the pr.ovisions of the..
ordinance that there was an existing. debt due by the con-pany to the State for intere8t paid, and that th'ere were
bonds of the State outstanding for the payment of.'hich
the company might become liable to the State. The ten,
per cent. is to be applied to the payiient of this interedt and
these bonds, and.tothis purpose only. - The amount collected
is to be appropriated by the General Assembly,-not to thegeneral purposes of the State, but to the paynient of a debt
already acc'ued,--the principMl and. interest of these bonds.
And when the bonds and interest shall have been fully paid
the assessment and colleqtioti .of the money'is to cease.
And if the company should fail to pay. the ten per cent., the
road and'other property and-the franchise§ of the cbmpany
are to be sold, and the proceeds of the sale are to be applied
to the payment of the bond' and the debt, notwithstanding
the fact that the State' has agreed that they should te'paidin another way. In 'other words, the State says to the railroad company, "You 'owe a-debt, and are likely to o we us
more on bonds for which we are liable and which we may
have to pay. You must discharge that debt and liability by
tur'ing over ten per cent. of your gross receipts until we
are satisfied that the debt is paid, and if you do not we will
sell your franchise and all Your property." What is this
but resuming the pogition of first mortgagee ? The ordi:
nance goes farther. It not bnly makes the State a first

52

NORTH MISSOURI RAILROAD V

MAeU] REC

[Sup. Ct.

Argumenit for the company.

-niortgagee, in violation of the provisions of the act-of 1865,
but it changes the mode and time of payment. Can this be
considered a tax-? Has it any of the elements of a tax ?
Taxes are. burdens imposed upou persons o property to
raise money for public purposes. The money here raised is
to be applied to the payment of a particular debt. The.
road had already been placed, by the actot 1865, in the
hands of a receiver or fund commissioner, and the company
was required to pay all the gross earnings and daily receipts
into his hands under penalty of $10,000 for each instance
of neglect to do so.
Calling a thing a tax does not make it a tax; and, as is
observed by Cooley in his excellent work on Constitutional
Limitations,* "It may happ~n that an oppressive burden
imposed by the government when it comes to be carefully
scrutinized, will prove, instead of a tax, to be an unlawful
confiscation of property unwarranted by any principle of
constitutional government."
As to the second poin't. The act of 1865 made a corhplete disposifion of all the funds of the company, from
whtever 'source coming. The company as a corporation
owned nothing but its road and the property and appliances
with which to work it, and everything derived from this
source was by the act appropriated. Moreover who was to
pay the taxes? Not the company; for, under heavy penalt-,
it was to pay all to the fund commissioner. Not the fund
commissioner; for he is directed specifically to pay out all
the money in a particular way. How the payment of taxes
is any part of the ordinary business of the company as the
Supreme Court of Missouri argues, it 'is difficult to understand; but if so, this could not be done by the corporation.
The fund commissioner, who was an officer of the State,
has control of the funds, and if authority was given to any
one'to pay the taxes as a part of the expenses of runningthe road, it was given to him and not to the company.
Indeed, since the passage of the amended charter of
January 7th, 1853, the company ag a corporation has not been
Page 486.

Oct. 1873.]

NORTH, MISSOURI, RAILROAD V. MAGUIRE.

58

Argument for the company.

taxed either upon, its capital stock or' any of its property.
By the sixth section of that .harter, "the capital stock, together with all the. machines, wagons, cars, engines or carriages belonging to the compahy,
with all their
works and other property, abd all profits which shoul,' arise
from the same," were yested in the shareholders forever as
their personal estate, and as such ,was exempt.froyn any
charge or tax whatsoever for the term of five years. After
the expiration, of that term the shares were taxable to the
individual shareholders, nor was it pretendEd that any of
the property was taxable to thbe company up t6 and ht the
time of the passage, of the act of I865. This was,,so well
understood that there was no necessity of saying anyhing
.together

on the, subject of .taxation in the aet of 1865. That provi ,
sion of the charter was unchanged by the act of 1865; it'
was the mode of taxation agreed upon by, the State and the.
corporation., It was left as it was, and to suppose that the
State meant, that after the passage, of the act -of-1865, the
cooppration should be axed upon its property or income is
to-suppose that it should'he 'subjected to a double taxatiop,
because, by the sixth section of the charter' all 'the property
aiid the piofits which should arise:frbm the same were yste4
in the stockholders as their personal pl'operty, and as such
subject to taxation against themIafter the expiration of the
five years; and if it were-taxed again to the corporation it,
wbuld be double taxation,.a thing w.iich the courts will
never piesumethat the legislature intelided to do. 'W do
not prqtend that there was anything ihat exempted the.,
shares of'stpck from" thxation; and- as the laws of Missourik
stood thefn,'and as they stand now, and as they were' at the
time of the adoption of the convention ordinance,'.thi
sihares of stock in' this corpo'ration were taxable. The'ordinonce made no change in this respect. The ten per cent.
on, gross receipts was in additionito the tax on shares, but
wd do assert' that' it was the manifest intention of rthe legislature tb exempt the'corporation' froiA any tax on its property or'its capitai.
Messrs. Montgomry Bkair and F. A. Dick; contra.

54

-NORTH MISSOURI RAILROAD V. MAGURE.

[SUp. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

Mr.Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Much discussion of the evidence iSnthe case will be unnecessary, as the'principal facts are embodied in an agreed
statement, which is made a part of the record.
, By the agreed statement it appears that the plaintiff company is a corporation established by the laws of the State, and
that the other plaintiff claims to be the legal owner of al the
property lately owned by ihe corporation. Said company
was incorporated on the third of March, 1851, with a capital
stock of six 'millions of dollars divided into shares of one
hundred dollars each.
Pecuniary aid iji large-amoutts was furnished to the company by the State, as" appears from seveial legislative acts.
Such aid was granted by the act of the twenty-third of December, 1851, in terms as follows: that when evidence is produced satisfactory to the governor that the. company has
collected fifty thousand dollars on their capital stock, and that
they have expended the same in the survey, location, and
construction of the railroad, the governor shall cause to be
issued and delivered to the company special bonds of the
State to the same amount, as a loan of public credit, bearinlg interest and payable as therein provided. Provision is
also made in the same section that upon like proof that the
company have expended the whole of the sum realized froin
those bonds, and that they have also expended a further sum
of the same amount of their ovi moneys, that the governor
shall in like manner Cause to 'be issued' and delivered to the
company further like bonds for the same amount, and so on
in like manner as often as the company shall, from time to
time, furnish like evidence that they have expended from
their own moneys further sums, of not less than fifty thousand dollars, for the construction of the railroad, and that
,they have expended for the purpbse the whole of the pro,ceeds of the bonds previously issued by the State, the governor shall cause to be issued and delivered to'the company
further like bonds in instalments of the' same amount, not
exceeding in all the sum of two millions of dollarsBonds of the kind were forbidden to be delivered until

'Oct. 1878.] NoRTH MissouRtr

RAILROAD V. MAGUIRE.

55

Restatement of the case in the o'inion.

the acceptance thereof should- be signified to the secretary
of state by the filing in his office of a ce.tificate 6f such
acceptance under "the corporate seal of the company with
the signature of the president, and the provision 'Was that
the certificate of apceptance so execuited and filed should be
recorded in 'tie office -of the secretar' of state, andthlat itshall become and be, according to all intents and purposes,.
a mortgage of silid road and every part and section thereof,.
and its appurtenances, to the people of the State',for secure
ing the payment of the principal and interest of the.sums
of money for which such bonds shall from time to tinie be
issued and accepted.
Legislative aid was also furnished in like foirm to certain
other railroad companies of the State to 6xpedite their construction and the completion of the same arilonnting in the
whole to the sum of.nine millions of dollars, including the
amount furnished to the plaintiff companyiall of which was
secured as' a first lieu on the respective railroads in like
'mianner.
None of the companies, however,, were able to complete.
their railroads without further aid from thd State, and on
the tenth of December, 1855, the legislature, by an apt entitled "An act to secure the completion of certain rail'roads
in the State," enacted that it shall be the duty of' the governor, upon the application of an y of said companies, with
the proof of the investment of any sum in the actual construction and equipment of the trunk line of the railroad,
from sources other' than the 'roceeds ofthe bohds of the
State, and not secured upon. the road.by.a lien prior- to that
of the State, and verified as therein required, to 'sign and
dhliver to such company an 'amount-in the bonds of the State
equal to twice the'amount-so proven to have been i]ivested in
the construction 'ind equipment of the said railroad since the
last application and issue. of bonds to such company, and
successively from time to time, upoli 'the application for
bonds and proof of such investment, the, governor shall
issue and deliier, in like manner, bonds, to. such companyuitii the aggregate amount to the plaintiff company shall be

56

NORTH MISSOURI RAILROAD V.

MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ot.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

two millions of dollars, onQ million, of which shall be exclusively applied to the construction of a portion of said road
therein described; and it is made the duty of the governor
to expend the other million'of dollars for the purdhase of
the railroad iron necessary-to lay the 'track of sai'd road,
from one described point to another, and to purchase the
rolling stock for the same, and the provision is that the said
iron and rolling stock so purchased shall belong to the State
until placed upon the track for use, after which time the
State shall have a first lien on said iron and rolling stock,
together with all the road and its equipments, constructed
and to be cofistructed, for the security of the payment of
the principal and interest of said bonds, and all bonds issued
or that may be issued to said company under this or any
former act of the legislature granting the credit of the State
to the company.
Power is also reserved to the State to enforce the lien on
the railroad for the failure on its part to pay punctually prineipal and interest on the bonds issued for its benefit, as
herein and heretofore provided for in such cases; and the
company shall pay 4t the ti'mes herein specified, "to the
treasurer of the State one atd a quarter per cent., in addition, in each year, on each thirty-year bond, and two and a
half per cent. .in each year on each twenty-year bond sd sold
or hypothecated, to be invested at not less than seven per
,elt. interest; in 8uch securities as are provIded in the act."
By the same section it is also provided, that from the net
profits' arising from the road after the same shall be completed anAl in operation, a sum equal 'to not less than ten per
cent. per annurim upon the net earnings of the railroad shall
be paid by the company to the treasurer of the State as.a
sinkiiig fund, for the purpose of payipg 9t maturity the
bonds of the State so issued and to be issued to the company.
Special provision is also made that the treasurer of the
company and the .treasurer of the State shall be the commissioners of the sinking, fund, and thatit shall be the duty
ofthe, company to pay or remit the. semi-yearly interest'to
the designated place; as therein provided, and'in. case the

Oct. 1873.]

NORTH

MIssouRI

RAILROAD V. MAGUIRE.

57

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

-

company shall fail to pay such interest or to remit the amount
to the designated place, it is made the duty of the treasurer
of the State to supply the amount and reniiE the same, in
,which event he is required to refun1 the amount from the
Sinking fund and charge the same to' the defluilting com24ny. In that event the provision is that the defriulting
ompany shall not draw any further Statd bonds. Moneys,
funds, and 'securities belonging to the sinking fund are declared to be subject to the control, care, ajd management
of the fund commissioners, and the provision is that.from
time to time they may invest the same in t'he bonds of the
State under ihe conditions therein provided.
All funds derived fronisthe sale of State bonds were expended, but stilf the railroad was not dompleted, and on the
third of Marc h, 1857, the legislature made a further loan of
credit to the company of one and a half millions of dollars,
to be issued in bonds and to be expended upon the railroad
south of the junction therein described, which bonds were
to be issued in instalments of two hundred thousand dollars, uponi pro.of furnished to the governor of the expenditure for the same purpose of a sum equal to their par value
in the construction of the railroad, and the company was.
authorized by the same act to establish and keel a ferry
across the Missouri River,' where its road strikes the same,
for all purposes connected with the company, and for general
purpos es, by paying the usual license-tax provided by law.
in such cases.

Bonds could not be lawfully issued under that act until
the company accepted the act, and it was provided that the
failure to pay any part of the principal or interest of the
bonds should be a.forfeiture of all 'right in such,company to
demand or receive any furfher issue of b'ouds, and in that
event it was made the duty of the governor to foreclose the
mortgage of the State and to 'enforce her lieu on the property of thd company..
'Before the year expired, to wit, on the nineteenth of 'November following, the legislature authorized the governor to
issue to the plaintiff company a further amount of two hun-

58

NORTH MISSOURI RAILROAD V. MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

dred and fifty thousand dollars in the bonds of the State, to
complete a described portion of the road, and the same act
provided that the act should not be construed to release the
raiload from any penalty or forfeiture to which the conipany may be liable under such prior laws.
Authority was conferred upon the company by the act of
the sixteenth of February, 1865, to issue their own bonds to.
the amount of six millions of dollars, and to secure the same
by a first mortgage of their railroad and appurtenances, as
more fully set forth in the act. Such bonds were to be
issued in three classes and were to' be applied as thereini
provided, and to facilitate the sale of the bonds the State
relinquished her first lien and mortgage upon the main line
of the railroad, retaining -nal a second lien and mortgage
thereon until the principal anid interest of said bonds are
paid in full. By the same act the legislature created a fund
commissionier, and enacted that whenever any portion of
said bonds shall be issued that they shall be placed in the
hands of the find commissioner to be negotiated, and the
proceeds paid over to the corporation for the purposes and
under the regulations and restrictions provided in the same
aict, but, the act was not to be operative unless accepted by
the company in the mode therein provided. Prior inconsistent provisions in relation to the plaintiff company were
repealed by the twelfth section of the act, and the provision
is that the work on the west branch should not be expedited
to the exclusion of the construction of the main line of the
rail road.
Those several acts were duly accepted by the company
and were in force on the eighth of April following. Interest was paid by the company on the bonds issued,until
the year 1860, when the company made default, and such
interest has never been paid. . On the said eighth of April
the people of the State adopted an ordinance as a part
of their constitution, which provides to the effect that an
annual tax of ten per centuni of all their gross receipts, vth
an immaterial exception, shall be levied and collected of the
company and two other companies therein named, for the

Oct. 1873.]

NORTI& MISSOURI -RAILROAD V. MAGUIRE.

59

Restateinent of the case in the opinion.

period of two years,,as therein described, and fifteen per
centum thereafter, which tax shall be assessed and c9llected
,in the county of St. Louis in the same manner as other State
taxes are assessed and collected, and shall be appropriated*
by the legislature to the paymeut of the principal and interest now due or hereafter to'become due upoi the bonds of
-the State issued to the company.
Such receipts for the transportation of freight and passengers for the first of the two'years, not including any sum
received from the 6xcepted source, amounted to six hundred
and eighty-two thousand five hundred and seventy dollars,
and the agreed statement shows that a tax of ten per cent.,
amounting to sixty-eight thousand two hundred and fiftyseven dollars, was assessed in the proper county on the grossreceipts of the railroad for that year, under the provisions
of the said ordinance. None'of the principal of the bonds
was due at the time the tax was assessed, but the interest on
the same, to an amount greater than the amount of the tax,
was due at that time.
Pay ment of the -tax being -refused the defendant, as the
collector, seized the property of th.e company to satisfy the
same, and the plairitiffs here brought an action of trespass
against the collector to test the validity of the tax, in tlie"
State Circuit Court for th4 county where the tax was as-sessed. Service was made and the defendant appeared,
when -h&parties waived a jury and submitted the case to
the court upon ii agreed statement of facts.

Hearing was

and.the " court

rendered judgment for the plaintiffs and
had
th: defendant excepted and -appealed to the Supreme Court
of the State, where the judgment of the State Circuit Court
was reversed aid a judgment rendered for the defendant.
Wher~upoh the plaintiffs sued out' a writ of error and removed the cause into this court.
Corporate powers were conferted upou the company by
the act of the thirdyof March, 1851, but the act of incorporation contains no provision whatever exempting the property
of the comipAny,froi taxation. "Three years later the charter
was amended, and the si~th secti6n of the amendatory act

-

60,

NORTH MISSOURI RAILROAD V. MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

provided that the *capital stock, with all machines, wagons,
ears, engines, or carriages belonging to the company, with
all their works or other property, and all profits which sh'all
arise from the same, shall be vested in tli shareholders in
proportion to their shares, and that the same shall be deemed
personal estate and shall be exempt from any public charge
or tax whatsoever for the period of five years from and after
the passage of the act, which period has long since elapsed.
Attempt is made in argument to show that an exemption
fronm taxation may be implied from some of the provisions
b[f the act to provide for the completion of the railroad and
its wpst branch.. Based solely on! that theory, the error
assigned is tliat the ordinance of the State imposing the tax
is in violation of that provision of the Constitution which
prohibits the States from passing any law impairing the obligation of contracts. Pursuant to that theory the plaintiffs
contend that the legistative act to complete the railroad, enacted a mode of making payments by the company to the
State, which, when the act was accepted by the 6mpauy,
became a binding contra4 t between the parties, within the
protection of that provision of the Constitution, and that as
such it could not be rescinuded by a~iy subsequent legislation,
and that the ordinance does impair the obligation of that
colitract by providing another and a different mode of enforcing the payments without the consent of the company.
Serious difficulty would arise in sustaining the judgment
of the State court if the view assumed in the'-proposition
was corr:ect, that the ordinance was a mere change of the
order of disbursing the receipts and earnizigs of the company,
instead of being what it purports to be on its face, an expression of the sovereign will of the people of the State
levyit)g taxes to pay arid discharge the indebtedness of the
State.
Power to tax is gr'anted for the benefit of the whole people,
and none have any right to complain if the power is fairly
exercised and the proceeds are properly applied to discharge
the obligations for which the taxes were imposed. Shch a

Oct. 1873.]

NORTH, MIssoURI, RAILROAD' V.. MAGUiRE.

61

Opini6n,of,the court.

power resides in the State government as a part of itself,
and need, not bereserved hen property of any description
is granted to individuals or corporate bodies.*
Unless exempted in'terms whichamount to a contract not
to taxi the property, privileges, and franchises.of a corporatios are, a5 much the legitimate-subjects of taxation as any
other pi'operty.o, the citizens which is within the sovereign
power of the State. " Repeated decisionsof thi.s court have
held, in respect to such corporations, that the taxing power
of the State is never presumed to be relinquished, and consequently.that it exists ,unless-the intention to relinquish it
is declared in clear and unambiguous terms.t
Expres§,exemption is not pretended, nor does the act to
provide for'the completion of thb railroad contain anyprovision which, when properly construed, affords any support
to the proposition that any such'contract exists between the
compauy and the., State, either express or implied; even if it
could be admitted that mere implication is sufficient, which
may well be questioned, as the current 8f the decisionsof
this court'warrant the conclusion that if such an exemption
be claimed it must be madetoappear in clear, explicit, and
unequivocal terms.
Authorities from numerous sources are cited by the plaintiffs, but none of them show that a lawful tax on a new subject, or an increased tax on an old one, intei'feres with a
contract or impairs its obligation, within the.meanfng of..tbe
Constitution, even-thopgh sbch taxation may affect particular, cofitracts; as it may increase the debt of one person and
lessen the security of another, or may impose additional, burdens upon one class and release the burdens of anothei, still
the tax must be paid unless prohibited by the Constitution,
nor can it be, said that it impairs the obligation of,any existing contract in its true legal sens ot
*

Cooley on Constittitional Limitations, 127-280.

- SocietIy for Savings v. Coite, 6 Walla~e,! 606; Philadelphia 'and Wilirington Railroad Co. v. Maryland, 10 Howard, 393; Providence Bank v.
Billings, 4 Peters, 661;. Jefferson' Bantc v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436;, Ohio Life
Insurance and Trust Co. v, Debolt, 16.Howard, 416.
I Blackwell on Tax Titles (2d ed.), 408.

62

'ORTH MIssouRi RAILROAD V. MAGUIRE.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

Properties of every kind ove" which the sovereign power
of a State extends are objects of taxation outside of the
means anid instruments of- the Federal government.*
Unrestricted by constitutional limitations the only restraint
upon the taxing power of the States is the responsibility of
those in whom the power is lodged, and the power of appropriation of the-proceeds, when not so restrained, is equally
unlimite d.Questions not involved in the assignment of errors will
not be examined, nor is it necessary, as all agree that the
main question in the case is whether the ordinance impairs
the obligation of any contract made and concluded between
the State and the company before the ordinance was adopted.
Unless the power of the State to tax the company was surrendered by the antecedent act to provide for the completion
of the railroad, it must be conceded that the power exists,
as it is plain that none of the other acts referred to afford
any support whatever to such a proposition.
Five years before that act was passed the company made
default in th'e payment of the interest falling due on the,
bonds which the State issued for their benefit, and by that
"act the legislature postponed aid released the lien of the
State, which' was a first 'lien on all their property to the
amount of four millions three hundred and ,fifty thousand
dollars, and accepted in its stead a second lien upon the same
property, in order that the company might issue six millions
of dollars of bonds of their own and be able to secure their
,paymeht, principal and interest, by a first mortgage upon
the.same property, to complete the main line of the road
and its west branch and the bridge therein described.
Moineys belonging to the company from that time werd
-to be placed in the hands of the fund commissioner,created
by the act; and were to be disbursed by him as follows: (..)
Amounts required for the actual current expenditurbs in
operating the rail'road and carrying on the ordinary business
* Hamilton Co. v. Massachusetts, 6 Wallace, 639.

t Griffin v. The Mayor, 4 Comstock, 419; Crowell v. Lawrence, 41 New
York, 141.

Oct. 1873.]

N ORTH MISSOURI RAILROAD V. MAGUIRE.

63,

Opinion of the court.

of the corporation, including all sums that may be necessary
for keeping the same in a good*state of repair, and'for such
additions to the rolling 6tock, &c., as may be rpquired to enable the comiaiy.to transact the business of the 'ailroad.
(2.) -Amounts sufficiene to pay the salary of the fund commissioner. (3.)" Aniount sufficient to pay the interest upon
said first mortgage bonas, as tlie same shall fall due; (4.)
Amounts necessary to pay the cost of the construction and
equipment.of the railroaa. (5:) Amounts sufficient to pay
accruing dividends on' preferred stock, not exceeding six
per cent. per annum thereon, as provided in the act'. (6.)
Amounts sufficient to pay the interest due on the outstanding bonds of the State previously loaned to the company.
-(Lastly.) le shall disbursb the, surplus to the payment of
the principal of said first-'nrtgage bonds until the same
shiall be fully paid off, or if none'of. such bonds shall have
become due, then to the pgyment .of the principal of the
bonds of the State, if any are still outstan~ding, and the balance shall he paid over to the company.
Further examination of those provisions is certainly unnecessary, a§ it is too plain foi' argument that they do not
afford the slightest support to the views. of the plaintiffs.
OA the contrary, they are entirely silent upon the subject, of
taxation, and-.fully justify the remarks of the State court
when they say that tie ubject of taxation forms no part of
the contract contained in the act under consideratioii.*
Nothing'is'said about taxation, and it does not seem to
have entered into the contract between the parties, but was
obviously left where the law had placed it before the act was
passed, nor was any provision made fov the payment of taxes
unless it may be ,held that the disbursements for thgt purpose may fairly be included in such as are required to pay
the curren-t expenditures in carrying. on the ordinary businqss of the corporation.t
Reference is also made to some other sections of the act
" City of St. Louis v.Insurance and Trust Co., 47 Missouri, 165.
t Railroad Company v. Maguire, 49 Missouri, 490; Pacific Railroad v.
Maguire, 51 Id. 142.

64

OREGON STEAm NAVIGATION CO. V. WINSOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

as supporting the proposition submitted by the plain'tiffi, but
it is so obvious that they cannot be so regarded without departing from the established rules of law applicable in such
cases, that it is not necessary to pursue the discussion.
Like controversy exists between the State an( another of
the railroads,niontioned in the ordinance, in which case it is
contended that the ten per cent. charge imposed by that instrument is not a tax within any correct meaning of that
word, that it is an appropriation of the property of the. company without due process of law, or the taking of the property of the company without just compensation, but no'such
questiolds are open for exaninatiou in this case, as no sucl
errors are assigned in the record.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

The CHIEF JUSTICE dissented.
not sit.

OREGON STEAM NAVIGATION

STRONG, J., did

COMPANY V.

WINSOR.

Questions about contracts in restraint of trade must be judged according to
the circumstpnces on which they arise, and in subservience to the gen-

eral rule that there must be no injury to the public by its being deprived
of the restricted party's industry, and that the party himself must not

be precluded from pursuing his occupation and thus prevented from
supporting himself and hisfamily. Accordingly, where A., engaged in
navigating waters of California alone, sold in 1864 a steamer to B., engaged in navigating a particular river (the Columbia River), of Oregon
and Washington Territories (regions to the north of California), subject

°

to a stipulation that he, B., would not employ it or suffer it to be employed
for ten years from the date of the sale, in any waters of California, and
B., three years afterwards, i. e., in 1867, sold the same steamer to 0.,
engaged in navigating Puget's Sound (water in the extreme northwest
corner of Washington Territory and remote from all the other waters

described), subject to a stipulation thaf she should not be run or employed upon any of the routes of travel, or the rivers, bays, or viaters
ofthe State of California, or the Columbia River and its tributaries,
for the period of ten yeas from May 1st, 1867, held that the contract
was not void as in restraint of trade.
Held, further-the contract in the second case having been for ten years

from the date of it, and therefore for three years after the first contract

