Oct.. 1873.]

PAHLMAN v. THE COLLECTOR.
Statement of the case.

of, the claimants, ,and will give my views as briefly as
may be. When the resolution giving the twenty per cent.
was passed, nearly eight months of the ye',ir to which the
allowance related had elapsed. The allowancewas a mere
gratuity. Hence there -was no vested right arising fr6m the
resolution, and there could be none. .But the resolution
was operative in each case -until the claimant was paid.
When repealed, the gratuity which it gave fell with it. The
repeal necessarily had that effect. I see no reason for giving
the' repealing sectioni a more limited construction. It was
intended to take away from all those'who had not then'been
paid, the right to be paid the'eafter. I think, therefoie, that
the judgmepts of the Court of Claitns should be reversed.

-favor

PAHLMAN v. THE COLLECTOR.
Under tile act of July 20th, 1868, imposing taxes on distilled spirits, the
assessor and his assistant, in estiniating the true producing capacity of
a distillery, are empowered to fix as the true fermenting period such
period as they, after examination and calculation, may deem the true
one. They are not bound to take as such the period which the distiller,
in the notice which the sixth section of th'e act requires him to give, has
declared that he would use for fermentation, and which, subsequently,
he actually did use.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois.
•Pahlman & Co., distillers in the district of Illinois just
named, sued Raster, a collector of internal revenue in the
same district, to recover of him certain money which they
had paid to him under protest, as tax upon distilling from
February to July, inuclusi've, in 1871, the amount sued for
being, as was asserted by-them, so much in excess of what
was really due.
The only question involved was one of law, and came up
on .demurrer to sppcial counts in the declaration. That

190

PAHLMAN v. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ut.,

Statement of the case.

question was whether, under the act of July 20th, 1868,*
entitled "An act imposing takes on distilled spirits, tobacco,
and for other purposes," the assessor and surveyor, in estimating a true producing capacity for a distillery, had power
to fix upon a certain period as the true ferrnentibq period, or
whether they were bound upon this point by the period
of which, in his application, the distiller has stated that he
would make use, and of which in point of fact he did make
use.
The distiller denied that they had. The collector took
the contrary position.
The statute above referred to enacts:
"SECTION 2. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, for the
prevention and detection of frauds by distillers of spirits, is
hereby authorized to adopt and prescribe for use such hydrometers, saccharometers, weighing and gauging instruments, meters

or other means for ascertaining the quantity, gravity, and pro-

ducing capacity of any mash, wort, or beer, used in the produc'tion of distilled spirits, and the strength and quantity of spirits
subjec t to tax, as he may deem necessary; and he may prescribe
rules and regulations to secure a uniform and correct system of
inspection, weighing, marking, and gauging of spirits.
"SECTION 6. Every person intending to be engaged in the
business of a distiller or rectifier shall give notice in writing,
subscribei by him, to the assessor of the district within which
such business is to be carried on, stating . . . the place where

said business is to be carried on, and whether of distilling or
rectifying.

In case of a distiller, the notice shall also state

the kind of stills and the cubic contents thereof, the number
and kind of IWilers, the number of mash-tubs and fbrmentingtubs, and the cubic content of each tub, the number of receiving cisterns and the cubic contents of each cistern, &c. The
notice shall also state the number of hours in which the distiller
wiLL ferment'each tub of mash or beer, the estimated quantity of
distilled spirits which the apparatus is capable of distilling every
twenty-four hours, &c. In case of any change in the location,
form, capacity, &c., of such distillery, or in the time of ferment* Chap. 186,

10, 15 Stat. at Large, 129.

Oct. -1873.]

PAHLMAN

v. THE COLLECTOR.

Statement of the case.

ing the mash or beer, notice ihereof, in writing, shall be given
to the said'assessor or to the assistant assessor of the division
within twenty-four hours of said change..
"SECTION 9. Every distiller shall cause to be made an accurate plan and description of the distillery and distilling apparatus, distinctly showing the location of every still, boiler, doubler,
worm, tub, and receiving cistern, the course and construction of
and of 'every cock or
all fixed pipes used or to be used, .
joint thereof, and of every'valve.therein. . . . Such plan and
description shall also show the nuiber and location, and cubic
contents, of every still, mash-tub, and fermenting-tub, together
with the cubic contents of every receiving cistern, and the color
of each fixedxpipe.
"SECTION 10. Every assessor shall proceed, . . . with the aid
of some competent and skilful person, to-be designated by the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, to make survey of each distillery registered or intended to.bQ registered for the production
of spirits in his district, to estimatdund d~termine its true producing capacity, &c., a written report of which shall be made in
triplicate, signed by the assessor adl the person aiding in the
same, one copy of which shall .be furnished to the distiller;
one retained .by the assessor, and the other immediately transmitted to the Commissioner of Interhal Revenue. If the Commissioner'of Internal Revenue. shall atany time be satisfied that
such report of the capacity of a distillery is in any respect inb9rrect or needs revision, he shall direct the assessor to make
in like manner another survey,'&e.
"SECTION 20. On receipt of the distiller's first return in each'
month, the assessor shall inquire and determine whether said
distiller has accounted in his returns for the preceding month,
for all the spirits'produced by him; and to determine the quan
tity of spirits thus to be accounted for, the whole quantity of
materials used for the production of spirits shall be ascertained;
and fort r-five gallons of mash, or beer brewed or fermented
from grain,, shall represent not less than one bushel of- grain,
and seven gallons of mash, or-beer brewed or fermented from
molasses, shall represen't not less than one gallon'of molhsses.
In case'the return of the'distiller shall have been less than the
.quantity thus ascertained, the distiller or other person liable
shall be assessed for such deficielicy at the rate of fifty cents for
every proof galloh, together witfi the special tax of $-for every

192

PAILMAN V. TRE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

cask of forty proof 'gallons, anid the collector shall proceed to
collect the same as in cases of other assessments for.deficiencies;
'but in no case:shall the quantity of spirits returned by the distiller, together with the quantity so assesged, be fbr a less quantity of spirits than eighty per centum-of the producing capacity
of the distillery, as estimated under the provisions of tllis act.
"SEcTION 103. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue .is au.
thorized to make all such regulations, not otherwise.provided
for, as may become necessary by reason of any change of law in
relation to'internal revepue made by this act."
In accordance with his construction of the powers given
him, the. commissioner issued, on the 8th of.March, 1870, a
general circular regulating surveys, containing the following
instructions:
"The true producing capacity of a distillery is not limited to
what a distiller may produce by following u particular course
which he has marked 'out, but what may be produced under
favorable circumstances.
"The true producing capacity of a distillery.is not the amount
so, proposed to be produced, but the amount which can be produced, using all the machinery and apparatus under competent
and skilful management, taking as a basis for the ealculation
such premises as will produce the best practical results.
"The true spirit-producing capacity of a grain distillery is
mainly determined by its fermenting capacity; but as this is'sometimes affected by the modes of mashing and distillirng, th'ese are
therefore to be'considered.'
"Hfaving found the number of bushels which are required to
fill the fermenters, the assessor and person designated to aid
him will determine what, under all the circumstances, is a reasonable period to be'allowed for fermenting, and in so dbing
they are' not bound by the period stated in the distiller's notice,
but- are to -take such period as will, under ordinary circumstanees, and with good management, produce the best results.
From the best information, it is' believed that a fermenting
period of sixty hours is as long a period as can be used consistently with good management or a profitable conduct of the
business, and where a greater period than this is assumed it
must be accompanied with such a statement of the circumstances as will show it to be justified as an exceptional case.

Oct. 1873.]

PAHLMAN

V'.

TiE COLLECTOR.

Statement of the case.
"The surveyor, having ascertained by the measurement the
cubic contents of the fermenting-tubs, finds it necessary to determine:
"1st.The number of dry inches to be allowed each tub for,
fermentation.
"2d. The period necessary to enable the distiller to ferment each
tub of mash.
"3d. The number of gallons of spirits .that can be produced
from a.bushel of grain.
"These are questions coming within the discretion and judgment of the assessor and his skilful assistant, with which the
office of internal revenue has no disposition tW interfere. But
it has been thought proper, for the guidance of the suryeyor, to
prescribe certain rules on these points. Surveyors are, therefore, to be governed by the following rules in fixing the capacity
of a distillery, except where they find that they do not correctly
determine its capacity:
"]Forty-eight hours is prescribed as the maximum-period to
be allowed for fermentation in sweet-mash distilleries.
"The only exception to this rule that is thought to be justified by sufficient reasons is where the mashing is done by band,
where hot water is the only heating agent, and the distillation
is in copper by furnace beat. It is believed that with this imperfect mode of stirring and regulating the temperature,'such a
perfectly fermented beer cannot be uniformly produced as is
necessary for distillation in copper with furnace heat, to prevent
occasional burning of the still; in such cases seventy-two hours
will be allowed for fermentation."
The provisions of statutes already given being in force,
and the Commissipner of Internal Revenue having issued
the regulations just quoted, the plaintifs, on the 1st of
August, 1870, intending to engage in the -business of distilling alcohol from grain-, gave notice to the assessor, as required in the sixth section of the act of July 20th, 1868,
above quoted, that they would ferment each tub of mash,
or beer, used by them in the manufacture of alcohol, for
the period of secenty-two hours. When, however, afterwards
the assessor and his skilled, assistant estimated and determined the producing capacity of the distillery, pursuant to
VOL. XX.

13

PAHLMAN

v. THE

COLLECTOR.

-[Sup.

Ct.

Argument for the distiller.

the directions of the tenth section of the act, the capacity
was determined by assuming the period of fermentation to
beforty-eight hours; this assumption being made, of course,
in aecordance with the above-quoted regulations prescribed
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. The tax was
assessed and collected according to the survey thus made.
The court below gave judgment for the collector, and the
plaintiff brought the case here.
Mr. W. B. Scales, for the plaintiff in error:
The commissioner, by his regulations, not only treats the
sixth section of the act of 1868, and the notice which it requires to be given, as a nullity, but claims the right to fix
upon any fermenting period which he thinks proper.
The object of the legislature in taxing distilled liquors
was to raise revenue on them, not to cripple or destroy
distillers; neither was it to compel them to carry on their
business in a manner to produce the largest amount of taxable products without regard to facts or to the reasonable
interests of the distillers.
That the notice in section six was intended to give the
distiller the right to contract and fix his own period of fermentation' is shown, not only by the langunge. of the act,
but by the debates upon it while under consideration in the
committee of the whole.
The Congressional Globe* of the time shows that when
the act was before Congress, Mr. Beck, a member, moved
to strike out the word "will," in section six,t and insert in
lieu the words, "usually takes to," so that the passage would
read"The number of hours in which the distiller usually takes to
ferment each tub of mash or beer."
lie said:
"It is impossible to tell how long it will take to ferment. I
know it varies in my district, from three days and a half to five
*-Second session, Fortieth Congress, part four, page 8414.
.tSupra, p. 190, fourth line from the bottom.

Oct.. 1873.]

PAHLMAN

v. THE OOLLECTOR.

Argument for the distiller,

days; depending upon the weather and other causes. You
should not punish a man who cannot help himself. He should
not be held responsible for the failure to ferment within the
time when'the weather or a thousand other circumstances mity
prevent the fermentation.
The report continues:
"MR. SOHENCK.. When I first read the form of expression contained in other legislation it struck me'somewhat in the same
way. We calld a council of distillers on the subject and found
that this was just the language they used. They have twentyfour hour, forty-eight hour, and seventy-two hour beer. Although there may be a little difference occasioned by the temthat way, and every distiller
perature, they classify their beer ifi
will tell, in regard to a particular kind of beer, what time he
wants for his mode of distillation, so that the bill is, in fact,
drawn in copformity with the notions of the distillers themselves. The amendment would make it very vague even as to
the rules of the distillers themselves.
" Mi. BECK. They should not be punished for failing to do
what is inevitable. The time varies in extreme cold or in ex.treme warm weather. A thunderstdrz will so affect it that it
will not ferment in a very long time, If the committee, however, think that the word ' will' leaves margin enough I will
not press the amendment.
"MR. ALLISON. I think it doea.
'M. SCHENCK. Permit me to say that our object is to charge
upon the capacity, among other things, and if we leave an un-

certainty about this we run the .ris4 of not getting the capacity
taxed. The distillers themselves have their rule on the subject,
and whatever time it takes to ferment, they designate their beer
accordingly, as twent.y-four, forty-eight, or seventy-.two hour
beer.

"MR. BECK. I withdraw the amendment.
call attention to the subject."

I only desired to

It is thus soen that the. wording of section six, in insert-.
ing the. word "will," and. retaining it on debate, was intended by the chairman of the committee which ordered it,
and that, too, after conferenco with 'distillers, to give distillers the right to fix and .couttol the period of fermentation,

PAHLMAN V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the government.

each for himself, and that, too, with reference to the per
diem tax. And upon debate the word was retained, because it expressed and would secure that'right to distillers.
Mr. G. fl. Williams, Allorney-General, and Mr. S. F. Phillips, Solicitor-General,contra:
No canon for the interp'retation of statutes justifies a
reference to ANhat was said by particular members of the
legislature on the discussion of a bill which subsequently
became a law.
The provision in section two, authorizing the commissioner to adopt and prescribe means for ascertaining the
producing capacity of such beer, necessarily intrusts to him,
in connection with the skiyltl surveyor, his agent, the povwer
of selecting the point of time for applying such means; that
is, the point at which such beer becomes most productive,
or is ripe.
A true producing capacity implies a true fermenting period,
and nature is as uniform in." her fermenting periods," for
considerable quantities of beer and lengths of time, as in
any other of those operations which render her uniforriity
proverbial. It seems, upon consideration, to be entirely
reasonable to allow the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
to determine, as matter of science combined with extensive
observation, what within the United States, with rare exceptions, must be the mnaximum fermenting period, and
equally so for a skilled surveyor to determine what is the
true fermenting period of a certain distillery whose location
and methods of operation he has examined.
In general, hoxt-ever, it seems enough to say that the
statute is as careful- in requiring from the distiller minute
data for ascertaining actual results, contemplated or accomplished, as it is in leaving the surveyors to use their skill untrammelled, under the general superintendence of the commissioner, in determining what ought to be the result, at
least with a margin of twenty per cent.; and that it will be
injurious to confound matters intended to be kept apart, if
this skill is to be embarrassed by the rules of practice of per-

Oct. 1873.]

PAHLMAN V. THE COLLECTOR.
Opinion of the court.

sons not required to be skilful; persons of whom all that the
law knows is, that they intend to become distillers.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The questioli is whether, by the act of Congress under
conside'ation, the assessor and his assistant, in estimating
the true producing capacity of a distillery, are empowered
to fix, as the true fermenting period, any other than that
which the distiller in his notice to the assessor, required by
'the sixth section, has declared lie.would use for ferinentation, and which he actually did use.
That the producing capacity of a distillery is conclusively
determined by the survey and estimate made under the
tenth section of' the act (that survey, however, being subject
to revision by the Commissioner of InternalRevenue), was
ruled in Collector v. Beggs.* In that case we said "the survey and estimate of producing capacity made under the
tenth section were conclusive while they remained, though
subject to revision under the direction of the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue. And the extent of liability to taxation
was, by the act of Congress, directed to be measured, not
by the actual product of spirits, but by what should have
been the product of the materials used.according to the estimate made under the tenth section." And this is very
plainly the intention of the law, for by tiiat se.etion, the only
one which expressly provides for the ascertainment of the
producing capacity, it was made the duty of the assessor,
with the aid of some competent and skilful person to be
designated by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, to
make survey of each distillery registered, or intended to be
registered, for the production of spirits in his district, not
only to estimate, but to determine its producing capacity. Of
this estimate and determination the assessor and his assistant
,are required to make a written report in triplicate, signed
by them, one original of which is to be furnished to the distiller, one retained by the assessor, and the third is to be
17 Wallace, 182.

PAHLMAN V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

transmitted to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. It
is also provided that if the commissioner shall at any time
be satisfied that such report of the capaciti of a distillery is
in aily respect incorrect, or needs revision, he niay direct
the assessor to make another survey. Thus a measure of
taxation is fixed, and the distiller is notified of it before he
commences distilling. All this leaves no doubt that the reported survey was intended by Congress to be conclusive
until corrected by direction of the commissioner.
.' ut while this is not ddnied by the plaintifif in error as a
general proposition, it is insisted that in estimating and determining the producing capacity of the distillery, the assessor 'must be controlled by the notice which the distiller is
required to give him by the sixth section of the act, and
must base his calculations upon the period of fermentation
fixed in that notice. It is said he has no power to adopt any
other period of fermentation, even though ordered to do so
by the commissioner, and, if lie does, that his estimate and
determination are not conclusive. In this objection we cannot concur. It is founded, we think, upon a misapprehension of the statute. The sixth section requires every person
engaged in, or intending to be engaged in, the business of a
distiller, or rectifier, to give notice in writing to the assessor
of the district within which he proposes to carry on the business, stating therein his name, his associates, if any, and his
proposed place of business. If he be a distiller, he is required to state in his notice the kind of stills and the cubic
contents thereof, the number and kind of boilers, the number of mash-tubs and fermenting-tubs, and the cubic contents of each tub, the number of receiving cisterns and the
cubic contents of each cistern, together with a particular
description of the lot or trabt of land on which the distillery
is situated, with the size and description of the buildings
thereon, and of what material constructed. The distiller is
also required to state in his notice the number of hours in
which he will ferment each tub of mash or bebr, and the
estimated quantity of di'stilled spirits which the apparatus is
capable of distilling every twent -foiir hours.

Oct. 1873.]

PAHLMAN

v.

THE COLLECTOR.

199

Opinion of the court.

The object of these requirements is too plain to be misunderstood. Clearly it is not to enable the distiller to determine for himself the producing capacity of his distillery,
atid thereby partially fix the extent of his liability to-taxation. It is to furnish protection against frauds, an(] possibly
to assist in the ascertainment of the quantity of spirits actually distilled. If intended at all to bear upon the estimate
of the producing capacity ofthe distillery, it can only be
regarded as suggestive, not as controlling. It is after this
notice has been given that the assessor and his skilled assistant are required, as by the tenth section of the act, to make
an estimate and determination of the producing capacity.
They are no more required to take the fermenting period
designated in the notice. as the true fermenting period than
they are controlled by the distiller's statement of the number
and cubical contents of the stills, mash-tubs, and cisterns he
intends to use, or by his estimate of the capability of his apparatus. They .are required to calculate and report what
the distillery can produce, not what the .distiller proposes to
produce, or what the apparatus would produce, it' employed
in a particular manner. To enable them to discharge this
duty the provisions of the ninth section were enacted. That
section requires the distiller to furnish to the assessor an
accurate plan of the distillery and distilling apparatus, showifig the locition and mode of construction of the apparatus
and the cubical contents of each vessel. Undoubtedly the
main elements necessary for a determination oft the producing capacity are the size of the stills, mash-tubs, and cisterns, and the duration of the fermenting period. There is
unquestionably, in thd nature ot' things, a true fermenting
period, dependent on tle operation of natual processes, a
period which may be variant from that selected by a distiller. This period may vary somewhat in different latitudes,
but it is everywhere ascertainable, alid the commissioner,
we think, is authorized by the second section of the act to
prescribe regulations for ascertaining it. By that section he
is authorized to adopt and prescribe for use such hydrometers, saccharometers, weighing and gauging instrurments,

PAHLMAN

v. THE

COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.,

meters, or other means for ascertaining the quantity, gravity,
and productive capacity of any mash, wort, or beer used or
to be used in the production of distilled spirits, as he may
deem necessary. This is inconsistent with the idea that the
notice of the distiller is to determine the producing capacity.
And though in his notice he is required to state the time
in which he will ferment his mash, and also an estimate of
the quantity of distilled spirits which the apparatus is capable of distilling every twenty-four hours, that is his estimate.
Nowhere ii the act is any provision made that his statement
and estimate shall be obligatory upon the assessor and his
skilled assistant. Nor is there to be found'in the act any
rule by which the producing capacity of a distillery is to be
determined, except that the commissioner of internal revenue is, by the"second and one hundred and third sections,
empowered to make necessary regulationis. "The declaration
shows that such regulations were made, and they were followed by the assessor. The survey was made accordingly.
If instead of following the instructions given by the commissioner, the assessor must adopt a period for fermentation
given to him by the distiller-a period 'vhich may, or may
not, be a true one; that is, the period- within which complete fermentation takes place-it is obvious there can be
no certainty in the ascertainment and determination of the
actual producing, capacity of the distillery, and the object
which the law has in view will be defeated. At most, all
the assessor and his assistant can do will be to ascertain the
actual product. The possible product cannot be ascertained;
yet, as we have had occasion to say heretofore, when giving
a construction to this act of Copgress, both the producing
capacity and the quantity of-spirits actually produced are
made by the law measures of taxation, and provision is made
for the determination of each.*
But without pursuiing'the subject farther, we have said
sufficient to show that in our opinion the notice given by
the distiller of the time he will ferment each tub of mash or
beer does not control the survey. The assessor must deterI * United States v. Singer, 15 Wallace, 111.

Oct. 1873.]

THE LOTTAWANNA.

201

Statement of the ease.

mine and report the true actual capacity, and not what the
distillery will produce in the distiller's proposed mode of
running it. There is, therefore, no well-founded objection
to the conclusiveness of the survey in this case, and as the
tax assessed and collected was in accordance with the survey,
the plaintiffs have no right of action to recover it back.
Nor is there any su'ch hardship as is suggested. We have
seen that a report of the surveyor's determination of producing capacity is by the law required to be placed ii the
hands of the distiller before he commences business. If
dissatisfied with- it, he may apply to the commissioner for
another survey. He is thus infornied of the extent of his
liability to taxation. He has, therefore, little reason to complain, when he commences distilling, and does not produce

at least eighty per'.cent. Of what his distillery can produce,
as determined by the survey, if he is taxed according to a
standard which is not filse, and of which he had thus early
notice.

JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE LOTTAWANNA.
1. It is error and ground of reversal for a Circuit Court to affirm a decree in
admiralty of the District Court, and at the same time dismiss the appeal.
2. Where 9laims on the proceeds in the registry of a vessel sold are not maritime liens, the District Court cannot distribute those proceeds in payment of the claims if the owners of the vessel oppose such distribution.
8. A creditor by judgment in a State court, of the owners of the vessel, even
though he have a decree inpersonamalso in the admiralty against them,
cannot seize, or attach, on execution, proceeds uf the vessel in the registry of the admiralty.
4. Where an appeal is taken to the Circuit Court from the decree of the District Court in a proceeding in rem, the property or its 'proceeds follows
the cause into the former court.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana; the case-divested of irrelative .incidents, with a great
number of which, as seen in the record, it bad come here
confused and perplexed-w'as thus:

