Get. 1874.]

SPROTT V.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

essary consequence, from the right to exclude altogether.
The State of Wisconsin has made ita condition of admission
that the company shall submit to be stied in the courts she
hag provided for the settlement of the rights of her own
citizens. That is no more than saying that the foreign company must; for the purposes of all litigation growing out of
the business transacted there, renounce its foreign citizenship and become pro tantlo a citizen of that State. There is
no har'dship in this, for it imposes no greater burden than
rests uppn home companies and home insurers.
This insurance company accepted, this condition, and was
thus enabled to make the contract sued upon. Having received the benefits of its renunciation the revocation comes
too late.
The State court had jurisdiction to try the question of
citizenship upon the petition to transfer. Upon the facts I
think it was authorized to find that the company was, for all
the purposes of that action, a citizen of Wisconsin, and refuse the order of removal.

SPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
1. A. purchaser of cotton from the Confederate States, who knew that the
money he paid for it went to sustain the rebellion, cannot in the Court
of Claims recover the proceeds, when it has been captured and sold,
under the Captured and Abanddned Property Act.
2. The mordl turpitude of the transaction forbids that in a court of law he
should be permitted to establish his title by proof of such a transaction.
8. The acts of the States in rebellion, in the ordinary course of administra*tion of law, must be upheld in the interest of civil society, to which
such a government was a necessity.
4. But the government of the Confederacy had no existence except as
organized treason. Its purpose while it lasted was- to oierthrow the
lawful government, and its statutes, its decrees, its authority can give
no validity to any act done in its service or in aid of its purpose.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

The act known as the Captured and Abandoned Property
Act, passed March 12th, 1868,* providing for "the collection
12 Stat. at Large, 820.

460 ,

SPROTT V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of abandoned property, &c., in the insurrectionary districts
within the United States," enacts that any person claiming
to have been the owner of any such abandoned or captured
property may, within a time specified in the act, prefer his
claim to Ihe procee(ls thereof in the Court of Claims, and on
proof to the satistaction of the court: (1) of his ownership;
(2) or his right to the proceeds thereof; and (3) that lie has
never given any aid or comfiurt to the rebellion, receive the
residue of such proceed., a'tei deducting any purchasemoney which may have been paid, &c.
Umler this act one Sprott, a resident of Claiborne County,
Mississipp , filed a, claim in the Court of Claims to the proceeds of certain cotton. That court made the following
finding of fiets:
At diflerent times during the ypars 1864 and 1865, large
quantities of cotton were purchased by the agents of the
Confederate'States for the t-reasonable purpose of maintaining the war of the rebellion against the government of the
United States. Of cotton thus purchased by various agents
in Claiborne Coutity, Mississippi, three hundred bales were
sold to the claimant by one agent, in March, 1865, for ten
cents a pound, in the currency of the United States. The'
sale was made by the agent as of cotton belonging to the
Confederate States, and it was understood by the claimant
at the time of the purchase to be the property of the rebel
government, and was purchased as such. The agent had
been specially instructed by the Confederate government
"to sell any and all cotton he could for the purpose of raising money to purchase munitions of war and supplies for
the Confederate army ;" but the purpose of the sale was not
disclosed to the claimait, whose purpose was not to aid the
Confederate States, buying the cotton at its market value
and regarding it as a mnei'e bushiess transaction of "cotton
for cash." The cotton was delivered to him at the time
when the money was paid, he then being a resident of Claiborne County, within the Confederate lines.
The cotton was captured in May, 1865, and the proceeds
or some portion thereof are in the treasury.

Oct. 1874.3

'

PROTT V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of thecourt.

And upon these ficts the Court of Claims found, as conclusions of law1. That the government of tih'e Confederate States was an
uulawflrl iissemblage, without corporate power to take, lold,
or convey a valid title to property, real or personal.
2. That the claimant was .chargeable with notice of the
treasonable iiitent of the sale by tho 0onfederate government, and that the transaction was forbidden IQ the laws of
the Uiitcd States, and wholly void, so that the claimant acquired no title to the property whi.ch was the subject of suit'
The court therefore decreed against the claimant, and
fnom its decree he broughit the case here.
Messrs. George Taylor and -R.M. Corwine,for the appellant;
Mr. C.11. Bill, Assistant Attorney-Gencral, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the cotirt.
The Court of Claims, upon the facts which it found, decided as conclusions of law1. That the government of the Confederate States was an
unlawful assemblage without corporate power to take, hold,
or convey a valid title to prolperty, reil or personal.
2. That the claimant was -chargeable with notice Of the
treasonable, intent of the 'sale by the Conilederate governmefit, and that the transaction was ibrbidden.by the laws of
,the United States, and wholly void, so that the claimant acquired no title to the property which is the subject of suit.
We do not think it necessary to say anything in regard
to the Iirst proposition of laV laid down by that court.
Whether the temporary government of the Confederate
States had the capacity to take','nd hold title to real or,personal property, and how ihr it is to be recognized as having
be6n a de facto government, and if so, what consequences
follow in regard to its tran-sactions as they are to be viewed
in a court of the United States, it will be time enough .f6r
ug to decide when such decision becomes necessary. Th-ere
is no such necessity in the present case.

SPROTT V. UNITED STATES.

[Slip. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

We rest our affirmance of the judgment of the Court of
Claims upon its second proposition.
It is a fact so well known as to need no finding of the
court to establish it, a fact which, like many other historical
events, all courts take notice of, that cotton was the principal
support of the rebellion, so far as pecuniary aid was necessary to its support. The Confederate government early
adopted the policy of collecting large quantities of cotton
under its control, either by exchanging its bonds for the
'cotton, or when that failed, by forced contributions. So
long as the imperfect blockade of the Southern ports sand
the unguarded condition of the Mexican frontier enabled
them to export this cotton, they were well supplied in return with arms, ammunition, medicine, and the necessaries
of life not grown within their lines, as well as with that
other great sinew of war, gold. If the rebel government
could freely have exchanged the cotton of which it was enabled to possess itself, for the munitions of war or for gold,
it seems very doubtful if it could have been suppressed. So
when the rigor of the blockade prevented successful export
of this cotton, their next resource was to sell it among their
own people, or to such persons claiming outwardly to be
loyal to the United. States, as would buy of them, for. the
money necessary to support the tottering fabric of rebellion
which they called a government.
The cotton which is the subject of this controversy was
of this class. It had been in the possession and under the
control of the Confederate government, with claim of title.
It was captured during the last days of the existence of that
government by our forces, and sold by the officers appointed
for that purpose, and the money deposited in the treasury.
The claimant now asserts a right to this money on the
ground that he was the owner-of the cotton when if was so
captured. This claim of right or ownership he must prove
in the Court of Claims. ie attempts to do so by showing
that he purchased it of the Confederate government and
paid them for it in money. In doing this he gave aid and
assistance to the rebellion in the most efficient manner be

jct. 1874.]

SPROTT V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

possibly could. He could not have aided that cause more
acceptably if he had entered its service and become. a blockade-runner, or under the guise of a privateer had preyed
upon the unoffending commerce of his country. It is asking too much of a court of law sitting under the authority
of the government then struggling for existence against a
treasou respectable only for the numbers and the force by
which it was supported, to hold that one of its 6 wn citizens,
owing and acknowledging to it allegiance, can by the. proof
of such a transaction establish a title to the property so .obtained. The proposition that there is in many cases a public
policy which forbids courts of justice to allow any validity
to contracts because of their tendency to aftct inj uriously the
highest public interests, and to undermitne or destroy the
safeguards of the social fibric, is too.well settled to admit
of dispute. That any person owing allegiance to an organized government, can make a contract by which, for the
sake of gain, he contributes most substantially and kno'wingly to the vital neessitieh of a treasonable conspiracy
against its existence, and then in a court Qf that government
base successfully his rights on such a transaction, is opposed
to all that we have learned of the invalidity of immoral contracts. A clearer case of turpitude in the consideration of
a contract can hardly be imagined unless treason be taken
out of the catalogue of crimes.
The case is not relieved of its harsh features by the~finding of the court that the claimant did 6ot intend to aid the
rebellion, but only to make money. It might as well be
said that the man. who would sell for a sum far beyond its
valde to a lunatic, a weapon with wlich he knew the latter '
would kill himself, only intended to makd moneyand did
not intend to aid the lunatic in his fatal purpbse. This
court, ini Hanauerv. Doane,* speaking of one who set up the
same defence, says: "He voluntarily aids treason. He cannot be permitted to stand on the nice metaphysical distinc'tion that, although' he khows that the purchaser buys the
12 Wallace, 842.

S464

SPROTT V. 'UNITED

STA!ES.

[[Suff.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

,goods for the purpose of aiding the rebellion, he does not
sell them for th't purpose. The consequences of his acts
are too seriols to admit of such a plea. ie must be taken
to intend the consequences of his own voluntary act:" This
case, ad 'the succeeding one of .Hamaferv. IWoodr'ff,* are
directly in point in support of out view of the case betore us.
The recognition of the existen~ce and the validity of the
acts of the. so called Confederate government, am] that of
the States which yielded a.temporary support to that government, stand on very different g'oumidg, and are governed by
very dif hirent considerations.
The ]attar, in mos., if not ib all, instances, merely transferred the existing State organizations to-the support of a
new and different national head. The same comntitutions,
the same laws for the protection of property and personal
rights remain'ed, and were administered by the sameofficers.
These laws, necessary in their recognition and administration to the existence of organized society, were the same,
with slight exceptions, whether the authorities of the State'
acknowledged allegiance to the true or the false Federal
power. They were the fundamental pri.nciples for which
civil society is organized into government in all countries,
and must be respected in their administratio, under whatever temporary dominant authority they inay be exercised.
It is only when in the use of these powers substantial aid
and comfort was given o'r intended to be given to the rebellion, when tkie functions necessarily' reposed in the State ior"
the maintenance of civil society were perverted tothe manifest and intentional aid 6f 'treason against the government
of the. Union, that their acts are void'.-]"
The government of the Confederate States can receive no
aid from this course of reasoning. It had no existence, except as a coUspiracy to overthrow lawful authority. Its
foundation was treason against the existing Federal government. Its single purpose, so long as it lasted, was to make
that treason successful. So far from being necessary to the
* 15 -Wallace, 439.

te Texas v. White, 7 Id. 700

Oct. 1874.]

SPROTT ?). U'NITED STATES.

465...

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

organization of civil government, or to its maintenance anal
support, it was inimical to social order, 'destructive to the
best interests of society, and its primary object was to overthrow the government on which these so'largely depended.
Its existence and temporary powei were an enormous evil,
which the whole force of the government and the people of
the United States was engaged for-years in destroying.
When it was.overthrown it perished totally. It left no
laws, no statutes, no decrees, no authority which can give
support to any contract, or any act.done in its service, or in
aid of its purpose, or which 'contributed to protract its existence. So far as the actual exercise of its physical power.
was brolght to bearupon individuals, that may; unde' sonie
circumstances, constitute a justification- or excuse foK acts
otherwise indefensible, but no validity cah be given in the
courts of this co-untry to acts voluntarilyperformed in direct
.aid and support of its unlawful purpose. What of good orevil has flowed from it remains fdr the consideration ,and
.discussion of the philosophical statesman and.historian.
JUDGMENT "AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD and Mr. Justice DAVIS expressed their concurrence in the judgment of -the court
above announced, solely upon the ground that the purchase
of the cotton and the payment of the consideration necessarily tended to give aid to' the rebellion,,and that all such
contracts were void, as contrary to public p6licy. They
stated that all such portions of the opinion as enforced that
view had their concurrence, but that they dissentedfrom
the residue of the opinion as unnecessary to the conclusion.
Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting.
I am compelled to dissent from the judgment of the court
in this case, and from the reasons stated in the opinion upon
which that judgment is founded. The opinion appears to
me to proceed upon the assumption that this is an action to
enforce a contract wh'ich was illegal in its inception, and,
therefore, without standing in a court of justice. And the
VOL. xX.

80-

SPROTT V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting

cases of llanaaer v. Doae, in the 12th of Wallace, and Hanauer v. Woodrqff, in the 15th of Vrallace, are cited in support
of the position that contracts of this character will not be
upheld. Those authorities do establish the position that
contracts entered into for'the purpose of aiding the late insurrectionary government are, illegal and void, and will not
be enfbrced by the Federal tribunals. In the first case the
action was upon two promissory notes, the consideration of
which consisted in part of stores and supplies furnished the
defendant, an army contractor of the Confederate government, with knowledge that they were to be used in aid of
the rebellion, and in par't of due-bills issued by the contractor
to other parties for similar supplies, and taken up at his
request; and the court held that the sale of the goods, being
made with the vendor's knowledge of the uses to which they
were to'be applied, was an illegal transaction and did not constitute a valid consideration for the note of the purchaser,
and that the due-bills given by him for similar goods, being
taken up by third parties with knowledge of the purpose for
which they were issued, were equally invalid as a consideration for his note in their hands. In the second case the
action was upon a propissory note, the only consideration
of which consisted of certain bonds, issued by the convention of Arkansas which attempted to carry that State out of
the Union, and issued for the purpose of supporting the war
against the Federal government, and styled " w ar bonds"
on their face, :nd one of the questions presented for our determination was whether the consideration was illegal- under
the Constitution and laws of the Utiited States. And the
court answered that it did not admit of a doubt that the consideration was thus illegal and void; that "if the Constitution be, as it declares on its face it is, the supreme law of the
land, a contract or undertaking of any kind to destroy or
impair its supremacy, or to aid or encourage any attempt to
that end must necessarily be unlawful and can never be
treated, in a court sitting under tthat Constitution and exer
cising authority by virtue of its provisions, as a meritorious
consideration fbr the promise of any one."

Oct. 1874,]

1SPROTT

V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

Iii both of these cases the aid of the courts was sought to
enforce unexecuted contradts which were illegal and void ia
their inception, because made in aid of the rebellion, and
all that they decide is that contracts of ihat character can
never be enforced ini the courts of that government against
which the rebellion was 'raised. 'In those courts such con
tracts stand on the same footing as other illegal transactions,
they will not be upheld nor -enforced. In both of those
decisions I concurred, and in the second case I wrote the
opinion of the court. I. still adhere to the. views expressed
in both -cases.
But, with great respect for my associates, I am'compelled
to say that, in mny.judgrneit, neither of those cases has any
just applidation to the case at bar, or to any question properly involved in its decision. This action- is not brought to
enforce an unexecuted. con tract, legal or illegal; there is no
question of enforcing a contract in the case. The question,
and the only question, is whether 'the cotton seized by the
forces of the Utiitcd States in. May, 1865,.was at the time
the propeirty of the claimant.- If it was his property, then
he is entitled to its proceeds, and the judgment of the Court
of Olai ms should be reversed.; and in determining this question we are not concerned with the consideration of his loyalty or disloyalty. He was a citizen of Mississippi and
resided within the lines of the Confederacy, and tib act
forbidding intercourse viti the enemy does not apply to his
case. He was subject to be treated, In common with' other
.,citizens of the Confederacy, as a pdblic enemy durhig the
continuance of the war. And if he were disloyal in fact,
and if by.his purchase of the cotton he gave aid and comfort to the rebellion, as this court adjudges, the impediment
which such conduct previously interposed to the prosecution
of his claim was removed by the proclamation of pardon
and amnesty made by the President on the 25th day of December, 1868. He was included within the terms of that
beneflcbnt public act of the Chief Magistrate of the United
States, as fully as if he had been specifically named therein.
That pardon and amnesty did iot, of course, and could not
-

SPROTT V. UNIT-ED STATES.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

change the actual fact of previous disloyalty, if it existed,
but, as was said in" Carlisle v. The United Slates,* "they forever close the eyes of the court to the perception of that
fact as an element in its judgment, no rights of third parties
having intervened." In legal contemplation the executive
pardon not merely releases an offender from the punishiiient prescribed for his offence, but it obliterates the offince
itself.
In the present case, therefore, the question of the loyalty
or disloyalty of the claimant is withdrawn from oar consideration; and as the non-intercourse act does not apply to
his case, it does not concern the United States whether he
acquired the property from another public enemy or from
one of the States of the Confederacy, or from an agent of
the Confederate government. He was in possession of the
property at the time of the seizure, asserting ownership to
it ; and no one then disputed, and no one since has disputed
his title. Who then owned the property if he did not? The
United States did not own it. They did not acquire by its
seizure any title to the property. They have never asserted
any greater rights arising from capture of property on land
in the hands of citizens engaged in the rebellion, than those
which one belligerent nation asserts with reference to such
property captured by it belonging to the citizens or subjects
of the other belligerent. All public property which is movable in its nature, possessed by one belligerent, and employed
on land in actual hostilities, passes by capture. But private
property on land, except such as becomes booty when taken
fr-om enemies in the field or besiegqd towns, or is levied as
a military contribution upon the inhabitants of the hostile
territory, is exempt from confiscation by the general law of
nations. Such is the language of Mr. Wheton, who is recognized as authority on all questions of public law.' And
"this exemption," he adds, "extends even to the case of an
absolute and unqualified conquest of the enemies' country."t
In Brown' v. The United Slates,T the question arose whether
0 16 Wallace, 161.
1 8 Cranch, 162.

j Law of Nations, Lawrence's edition, 596:

Oct. 1874.]

SPROTT V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion. of Field, J., dissenting.

enemy's property found on land at the commencement of
hostilities with Great Britain, in 1812, could be seized and
condemned as a necessary consequence of the declaration
of"war; and the. court held that it could not be thus condemied -without an act of Congress authorizing its confiscation. The court, speaking through Chief Justice Marshall,
said that it was conceded that war gives to the sovereign
full right to take the persons and confiscate the property of
the enemy wherever found, and observed that the mitigations of this rigid rifle, *vhich the humane and wise policy
of modern times has introduced into practice, might more
or less affect the exercise of this right, but could not impair
the right itself. "That," said the corot, "remains undiminished, and when the sovereign authority shall choose to
bring it into operation, the judicial department must give
effect to its will." ".But," added the court, "until that will
shall be expressed, no power of condemnation can. exist in the
court."
It my be donbted whether the right to confiscate prop:erty of the enemy wherever found, which is here stated to
have been conceded, woul'd at this day be admitted without
-some qualification excepting private property on land not
engaged in actual hostilities or taken as-booty, or levied as
a military contribution, as stated by Mr. Wheaton. Be that
as it may, the decision is emphatic that until OGngress by
some legislative act directs the confiscation of private property on land, none can be ordered by the courts.*
Now, Congress has only provided for the confiscation of
private property of persons engaged in the rebellion,-by the
act of August 6th, 1861,t and that of July 17th, 1862.t
Both'of these acts require legal proceedings resulting in a
judicial decree of condemnation before the title of the owner
can be divested. The present case is not brought under
either of these acts. No proceedings for the condemnation
.* See also instructions of Mr. Adams, when Secretary of State, to our
Mfinister at St. Petersburg, July 6th, 1820, and Ralleck, 457; Hefter, 188;
and United States v. Percheman, 7 Peters, 1.
- 12 Stat. at Large, 819.
$ Ib. 589.

SPROTT V. UNITED STATES.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

and forfeiture of the cotton seized, or of its proceeds, have
ever been instituted by the government. The title of the
claimant remaing, therefore, at this day, as perfect as it did
on the day the cotton was seized.
In the case of The United Slatcs v. Klein,* this court had
occasion to consider the rights of property, as affected by
the war, in the hands of citizens engaged in hostilities
against the United States, and it held, after mature consideration, that the effect of the act of Congress of March 12th,
1863, to provide for the collection of captured and abandoned property in insurredtionary districts, under which the
present action is brought, is not to confiscate, or in any case
absolutely divest, the property of- the original owner, even
though disloyal, and that by the seizure the government
constituted itself a trustee fbr those who were by that act
declared, entitled, or might thereafter be recognized as entitled to the proceeds.
But it is contended that the Confederate government, being unlawful in its origin and continuance, was incapable
of acquiring, holding, or transferring a valid title to the
property. The court below so held in terms, and this court
so far sustains that ruling as to declare that the claimant
could not acquire any title to the cotton seized by purchase
from that government.
Assuming that the Confederate government was thus incapable of acquiring or transferring title to property, the
result claimed by the attorney-general, and held by the majority of this court, would not, in my judgment, fbllow.
That organization, whatever its character, acted through
agents. Those agents purchased and sold property. The
title of the vendors passed to somebody; if it did not vest
in the Confederate government, because that organization
was incapable of taking the property, it remained with the
agents. The sale of the vendors was a release and quit-claim
of their interest, and when that took place the property
was
not derelict and abandoned. Whatever title existed to the
* 13 Wallace, 136.

Oct. 1874.]

SPROTT

V.

UNITED STATES.

471

Opinion of Field) J., dissenting.

property was, thererore, in the agents if their assumed principaf had no existence, and-by their sale passed to purchasers
from them. Undoubtedly larceny could be alleged against
one who feloniously took the property fi'om such purchaser.
The taker would not be allowed in any court which adininisters justice to ccape punishment by showing tlat no title
passed to the purchaser.because his vendor was the agent,
or assumed to be the agent, of a government which had no
legal existence. And it js equally clear that the purchhser
could have maintained an action for injuries to the property
thus purchased, or for its ecovery if forcibly removed from
his possession by a third party. The plea that the property
was not his because obtained fom the agent, or a p'ersoir
assuming to be the agent, of an unlawful political organization, would npt be held a justification for the injui'ies or
the detention.
But I do not desire to place my objection to th.e decision
of the court upon this view of the case. I place it on higher.
ground, one wlhich is recognized by all writers, on international law,. from Grotius, its father, to Wheaton and Phillimore, its latest- expounders, and that is, that a government
de facto has, during its continuance, . the. same right within
its territorial limits to acquire and to dispose of movable
personal property which a goverhment de jure possesses.
And that the Ooifederate g& ernment, whatever its character in other respects, possessed supreme power over a large
extent of telritory, embracing several States and a population of many millions, and exercised that power for. nearly
four years, we are all compelled to admit. As stated by
this court, speaking through Mr. Justice Nelson,* it cannot
be denied that,.by the use of uflawful and unconstitutional
means, "a government in fact was erected greater in territory than many of the old governments in Europe, complete
in the organization of all its parts, containing within, its
limits more than eleven millions of people, and of sufficient'
resources in men and money to carry on a civil war of un* Mauran v. Insurance Company, 6 Wallace, 14.

2PROTT V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

exampled dimensions; and during all which time the exercise of many belligerent rights were either conceded to it,
or were acquiesced iu by the supreme government, such as
.the treatment of captives both on land and sea as prisoners
of war; the exchange of prisoners; their vessels captured
recognized as prizes of war and dealt with accordingly;
their property seized on land referred to the judicial tvibu"
nals for adjudication; their ports blockaded, and the blockade maintained by a suitable force, and duly notified to
neutral powers, the same as in open and public war."
In Thoringlon v..Sminlh,* this court placed tie Confederate
government among that class of. governments te fitelo of
which the temporary governments at Castine and Tampico
were examples, and said, speaking through Chief Justice
Chase, that "to the extent of actual supremacy, however
unlawfully gained, in all matters of government within its
military lines the power of the insurgent government cannot
be questioned. That supremacy did not justify acts of hostility to the United States. How far it should excuse them
must he left to the lawful government upon the re-establishment of its authority. But it made obedience to its authoritv in civil and local matters not only a necessity, but a
duty. Without such obedience civil order was impossible."
With these authorities before me I should unhesitatingly
have said-but for the fact that a majority of my associates
differ from me, and the presumption is that they are right
and I am wrog,-that it was impossible for any court to
.come to the conclusion that a government thus organized,
having such immense resources and exercising actual supremacy over such vast territory and millions of people, did
not possess tie power to acquire and to transfer the title to
personal property within its territorial limits.
Our government in its efforts to reach the property of the
extinct Confederacy has asserted a very different doctrine
from that announced in the court below, and, so far as the
cotton seized in this case is concerned, approved here. It
8 Wallace, 10.

Oct. 1874.]

SPROTT V. UNITED STATES.

478

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

has alleged in the courts of England that that Confederacy
did acquire property to a vast amount and attempted to
reach it in the hands of its agents. In UniledSlales v. MeRae*
it filed a bill in the court of chancery -in Enghnd to obtain
an account of all moneys and goods which came to the hands
.of the defenidaut, as agent or otherwise, on behalf of the
Confederate governnent during the insurrection, anid the
payment of the moneys which, on taking such account,
might be in his hands, and a delivery over of the goods in
his possession. The bill alleged that the Confederate government possessed itself of -divers moneys, goods, and treasure, part of the public property of the United States, and
that other moneys and goods were from time to time paid
and coutribtited to it by divers persons, inhabitants of the
United States, or were seized and acquired by that government in the exercise of its usurped authority; that it had
sent to agents and other persons in England large amounts
of money to be laid out in purchasing goods for its use, and
had sent there large quantities of goods to be sold; that it
bad thus sent large sums of money and large quantities of
goods to the defendant, and that -on the dissolution of that
government he had them in his possession. And the bill
claimed that all the joint or public property of the persons
cohstituting the Confederate government, including the said
moneys and goods, hd vested in the United States and constituted their absolute property, and ought to be paid and
delivered-to them. The court held that the moneys, goods,
and treasure which were at the outbreak of the rebellion the
public property of the United States, and' which were seized
by the rebels, still continued the-moneys, goods, and treasure
of the United States, their rights of property and rights of
possession being in no wise divested or defeated by the
wrongful seizure. But that with respect to property which
had been voluntarily contributed to or acquired by the insurrectionary government, and impressed in its hands with
the character 'of public property, the right of the United
* 8 Law Repoits, Equity, 69.

474

SPROTT v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

States was that of a successor of the Confederate government; an(d that they could recover such property from an
agent of that government, but subject, however, to the same
rights and obligations, to which that government would have
been subjected, had it not been overthrown.
In the case of The United States v. Prioleau,* the same
court again held that the government of the United States
could recover the propefty of the Confederate government,
as 'its successor or representative in the bands or its agents,
but that they must take it subject to all the liens and conditions arising from the contract upon which the property was
received by the agents. Neither the United Stafes, in the
prosecution of these suits, nor the courts of England in deciding them, expressed the slightest doubt that the title to
the property, not originally owned by the United States, had
been acquired by the Confederate government, which was
in the hands of its agents. And I submit that a response
'by those courts to the claim of the United States, that the
insurgent government, being illegal in its .origin and continuance, could neither take, hold, nor transfer title to personal property, would not have been acquiesced in, nor
deemed respectful by our government. And I submit respectfully that -the earnest denunciation of the wickedness
of the rebellion, contained in the opinion of the majority,
is no legal answer to the demand of the claimant for the
proceeds of his property seized and sold by our government,
when that government long since pardoned the only offence
of which that cl'aimant was guilty, and thus gave him the
assurance that he should stand in the courts of his country
in as good plight and condition as any citizen, who had
never sinned against its authority.
I-am, therefore, of opinion that the judgment of the Court
of Claims should be reversed.
* 2 Hemming & Miller's Chancery Cases, 559.

