MCQUIDDY v. WARE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

nothing would be gained by attempting to go beyond
them.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY did not sit during the argument,
and took no part in this decision.

MCQUIDDY V. WARE.
1. A man who has neglected his private affairs and gone away from his
home and State, for the purpose of divoting his time to the cause of rebellion against the government, cannot come into-equity to complain
that his creditors have obtained payment of admitted debts through
judicial process obtained upon constructive notice, and on a supposition
wrongly made by them that he had no home in the State, or none that
they knew of.
2. Especially is this true when there is rio allegation of want of actual knowledge of what they were doing.
8. And still more especially true is it in Missouri, where the statntes of the
State allow a bill of review of decrees or judgments obtained on constructive notice at any time within three years after they are obtained,
and the complainant has let more tbhn six years pass without an effort
to have them so reviewed.
4. Allegations of general ignorance of things a knowledge of which is easily
ascertainabl6, is insufficient to set into action the remedies of equity.
APPEAL from the-Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Missouri; the case being thus:
At the beginning of the late rebellion, which broke out
in 1861, McQuiddy, a resident of Nodtway County, Missouri, and owning-a farm there, voluntarily entered the service of the Confederate States under General Sterling Price,
and followed the fortunes of that officer and his army when
they left Missouri. At this time there were two mortgages
ou different parts of his farm, or instruments of writing
which the holders of them asserted to be mortgages. These
were due, and the holders in May, 1862, and November, 1863,
procured a decree of foreclosure of them. This proceeding

Oct. 1878.]

MOQUIDDY V. WARE.
Statement of the'case.

was made in professed pursuance of a statute of Missouri,
regulathig the subject'of .the foreclosure of mortgages, and
which authorizes an order of publication instead of an actual
service when the mortgagee alleges and the court in which
the foreclosure is applied for, or its clerk, is satisfied "that
the place of'residence of the -defendant is unkn'own." -The
foreclosures, therefore, so far as the records of thrm. showed,
were made on constructive notices, and on allegations such
as above stated.
McQuiddy also owed money, when he' left Missouri, to a
third creditor; this debt being by a note unsecured. This
creditor proceeded to get his debt by a proceeding in attachment, and in 'professed pursuance of another statute of
Missouri, which authorizes a writ in that sort of proceeding
to issue whenever the plaintiff files his petition setting forth
his cause of actiun with an affidavit that he has good reason
to believe, and does believe, that the defendant has absconded
or absented himself from his usual place of abode in this
State, so that the ordinary process of -law cannot be served
upon him. Such affidavit was .made by the unsecured creditor, and under it, in November, 1863, judgment was got; A
judgment, of course, like the ofher, on a constructive notice,
so far at Feast as the record of the proceeding showed'
On these three* different judiments allparts of his farm
were sold; a sale of one part being in 1863, and of the others
iii 1864, the sales. following at no great intervals the dates
of the judgments.
-By the Revised Statutes of Missouri a party'against whom
judgment has been rendered on constructive notice simply,
may come in at any time within three years afterwards and
file a petition for review.*
In*this state of things and of law, McQuiddy, in July, 1871,
filed his bill in the court below, against the purchasers of
the farm Cone Ware, and others), and against their vendees,
to set aside the sales and to have possession 'again of the
property sold.
* Revised Statutes of 1855, p. 1280,

13, 15, 16.

MCQUIDDY V. WARE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of'tbe case.

His bill attacked the jurisdiction of the court in all three'
cases alike.
He averred that the orders of publication were based on
false'statements, and that in one of the cases, pe'oceeded in
as in the case of a mortgage, the instrument proceeded on
was nof a mortgige, and that the proceeding was in truth a
proceeding to enforce a lien on lands, itnstead of h suit to
foreclose a mortgage, and requii:ed an affidavit of non-residence to authorize the giving of coustructive notice; -and
that jurisdiction could not be acquired on affidavit of unknown
residence, the sort of affidavit made in the case. He alleged
further that his departure from the State was for a temporary purpose and with an intention of soon returning; that
he left his wife at his domicile,'and that copies of writs could
have been served on her, and fhat he neither absconded nor
absented himself from his usual placq of abode in the sense
-of the statute, nor was his .residence unknown; that all
these facts were known" to the parties in interest, including
the respondents, who either purchased the property at the
sales, or. derived title from the person who did purchase.
By way of excuse for his want of diligence in his own
affairs, he alleged that the state of feeling was such qgaiast
him in iNodaway County, on aqcount of the part he took in
'the rebellion, that he could not with any sort of safety return
to the county, and that in 1863 he removed his family to
Tennessee, 'where he had since continued to reside. He
also alleged, iN continuation of this excuse, that being absent
from the State, though a resident of the county when the
proceedings were instituted to deprive him of his rights, and
no notice of the same having been given to any member of
his family he had not a day in court given him, and was in
ignorance of what was done uiitil recently; and that as soon
as practicable after ascertaining that the said illegal proceedings were had, he had taken steps to assert his rights.
The ouly~charge of fraud in connection with.the transactions disclosed in the bill related to the falsity of the affidavits on which the proceedings were based.
The complainant did not make any tender of money at

•Oct. 1873.]

MCQUIDDY V. WARE.
Opinion of the court.

all; but he prayed that an account might be faken of what
wis due on the instruments of debt; that an iccount njight
be taken also of the rents and profits received by the vendees
of the persons who had bought at the judicial' sale, and that.
he, the complainant, might be allowed t6 redeem on paY7
mert of any balance.
The defendants demurrdd, and the Circuit Court sustained
the demurrer:' A-decree having goie accordingly, McQuiddy
brought the case here for review.
Mr. W. IH. Letcher, for the aippellant, cited numerous statutes of the State of'Missouri, and decisions of the Supreme
Court of the -State upon them, to shovw that the proceedings
were not in proper form, and that upon the facts alleged and
which, of course, the demurrer admitted, no jurisdiction
existed, ind that the sdles of necessity were void.
Mr. G. P. 'Strong, contra, contended that the statutes applicable to the cse had been'strictly pursu'ed; and, moreover, tkct the case was void of "eqtfity.
Mr. Justice'DAVIS delivered the opinion of the "court.
In the view we take of'this.case we are not required to
wade through the va.xious sttdtutes of Missouri, and the decisions of the courts of the State, in order to' determine
whether or not the proceedings in question are valid: The'
complainant is not, in our opinion, in a position to invoke
the aid of a court of equity to decide that question. ..The
bill presents the case of a man who chose to neglect his private interests for the purpose of devoting his time to the destruction of the government, complaining that his creditors
enforced the collection of their debts dn a wrong theory of
his status, in consequence of entering the service of the
enemy. There is no pretence that the debts were not meritorious, or that the judgments were -entered' for a larger
amount than he owed. The real ground of complaint is
that he was not an absent or absconding debtor, or a pelrsbn
whose residence was unknown, and was not, therefore, sub
VOL. XX.

.

2

MCQUIDDY V. WARE.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

ject to the proceedings which were instituted against him.
Whether this be so or not it is easy enough to see in the anomalous condition ofaffairs existing at-the time in Missouri, that
creditors might honestly suppose that an individual leaving
his State to destroy the government'under which his rights
of property were acquired, did not intend to return to it,
and proceed to collect their debts under that supposition.
The inquiry is whether a party acting in this way has stated
such a case as entitles him to equitable. relief,'because his
creditors, who ought to have been provided for before he
left, mistook the condition he occupied, and treated him as
a person who had permanently abandoned his home.
There is no averment that he did not have actual notice of
the proceedings against him in time to protect his rights.
And it is fair to infer, in the .absence of such an averment,
that it could not be truthfully made. It is difficult to suppose, when he moved his family to Tennessee, that he did
not communicate with friends in Missouri who were acquainted with the true state of his affairs..
Besides, if the proceedings against him were irregular,
.why did he not seek his remedy under the statutes of Missouri, which concede to the party against whom judgment
has been rendered on constructive notice only, the right to
come in at any time within three years and file his petition
for i'eview. If this had been done, and the-State court had
-permitted the cases to be reopened for the reasons set forth
in the bill, his remedy would have been complete, as the bill
charges the purchasers at the sale with notice of all irregularities. It cannot be said that there was no opportunity of
doing this, for the earliest judgment was in May, 1862, and
both the others in Nbvember', 1863, and the war was substantially over in May, 1865. There is no averment of the
want of this opportunity, nor is the absence of it aided by
the general allegation, without specification of time or circumstance, that he could not with safety return to Nodaway
County on account of existing prejudices. This might be
true, and yet the opening of the judgments obtained by an
attorney, as his personal presence was not required for that

Oct. 1873.]

MCQUIDDY V. WARE.
Opinion of the court.

purpose. It were easy enqugh before 'the, three years expired to communicate with St., ouis by letter, or. even to
go there, and 'it is very certain that he could not have' been
under any apprehension while there 6f being disturbed in
the assertion of his legal rights.
.But if the proceedings, instead of being irregular and
voidable, are null and void, as they are cbaracterized in* the
bill, the remedy at law is complete, for there is 'in such a
condition of things nothing in the way of the successful
maintenance of an action of ectment, which Will result not
obly in the restoi'ation of the lands, but also their rents and
profits.
Apart from all this; the maxim that he who seeks equity
must do equity in the transaction in respect to which relief
is sought, has not been observed by this complainant. While
admitting his indeltedness, and that it has existed fq@ ten
years or more, he ddes not make a tender in court of what
is justly due, although he is'asking the court to set aside the
proceedings by which this indebtedness was satisfied, on the
ground of their absolute nullity. The willingness- to pay.
what is found to be due on the adjustment of the accounts
for rents and profits is not the sort of offer required of a person in the situation'of this complainant.
Moreover, there has been an utter lack of personal diligence, which is :equired in such 'a case as this in order to
bring into activity the powers of a court of equity. Equity'
always refuses to interfere where there has been gross lashes
in the prosecution of rights& There is no artificial rule on
such a subject, but each case as it arises must be determined
by its own particular- circumstances. These proceedings
were begun early in the war, and yet- no move is made to
disturb them until July, 1871, more than six years after hostilities ceased. Why this delay? The complainant says' he.
was in ignorance of them until recently, aid that as soon as
he ascertained them he took steps to assert his fights. Such
-a general allegation will not suffice to provbket'he interposition of a court of equity Itwilr not d .ooremain wilfully
ignorant of a thing readily ascertainable. There has been

20

HUMASTON

v.

TELEGRAPH COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

free and uninterrupted communication between Tennessee
and Missouri sinco the war closed, and the courts everywhere'accessible'for the prosecution of any cause of action.
Besides, in the very nature of things, the complainant must
have known soon after it occurred that an improved farm,
once occupied by him, was in the possession of adverse
claimants.' This was notice sufficient to put him on inquiry,
and this inquiry would have resulted in ascertaining all the
facts stated in the bill. There is no reason given for the delay, nor any facts and circumstances on which any shtisfactory excuse can be predicated.
Here, then, is the case of a party engaging in the rebellion
without provision for his debts, to which there was no defence, asking a court of equity, after the lapse of many
years without sufficient excuse for the delay, to interfere in
his behalf because his creditors adopted the wrong methods
for the enforcement of their claims against him. And this,
too, without any specific charge of fraud, except in the matter of the affidavits on which the proceedings were founded.
Such a charge, under the circumstances, is too weak and
unsatisfactory to relieve the complainant from the consequences of his own folly.
In any aspect of the case we think the demurrer was properly sustained, and the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill is therefore
AF~iRmED.

HUMASTON V. TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
1. Where a person, on a given contract, covenants to pay a sum whose
amount is to be contingent on certain events and is to be ascertained by
arbitrators, such person, if he prevent any arbitration, may be sued at
law on a quantum valobat, and the sum due may be ascertained by a jury
under instructions from the court. If the jury, under such instructions,
find that only so much is due, the plaintiff can recover nothing more.
2. A contract of a special nature explained and interpreted so as to sustain
a charge under which, in a case like that just stated, the jury found as

due much less than the plaintiff claimed.

