842

WASHING-MACHINE Co. v. TOOL C0.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

WASHING-MACHINE

COMPANY V. TOOL COMPANY.

1. The reissued letters-patent (No. 2829) for a new and improved clotheswringer, granted to Sylvanus Walker, assignee, on the 31st day of December, 1867, construed to. be for a U-shaped yoke or frame for supporting a wringing-machine, and for the combinati6n of such a yoke
with a clamping device, when employed to hold a clothes-wringer to
the side of a wash-tub, and the U form of the frame is essential to it.
2. The use of a portable support for a wringing mechanism which has some
of- the features of the patentee's device, but which has not the U-formed
yoke, or frame, is, therefore, no infringement of the patent.

APPEAL frown the Circuit Court for the District of Rhode
Island.
The Washing-Machine Company, assignee of Sylvanus
Walker, this last being assignee of one Sergeant, filed a bill
in the court below against the Providence Tool Company,
for an infringement of Division No. 2829, of a patent for
an improvement in clofhes-wringers. The original patent
was granted to Sergeant, July 27th, 1858, and was reissued
in two divisions, the one in suit being dated December 31st,
1867. Although the matter which was in issue in the present suit was confined, so far as the complainant's title was
concerned, to the reissue No. 2829, it may be well to describe the wringing-machine which was the subject of Sergeant's original patent, and out of which the invention patented in the reissue No. 2829 was carved.
The original machine belonged to the class of clotheswringers long known as "twist wringers." In these, clothes
are wrung by twisting them into a rope in the same manner
as without a machine the washerwoman twists them by
hand. This sort of machine diffhrs from another and wellknown class of wringers, in which "squeezing rollers"
squeeze out by pressure water from clothes passed betweenthem. Both sorts of machines had been in use for many
years prior to the patent to Sergeant.
In the original machine of Sergeant, Figure 1 represents
a yoke-frame of U form, the curved portion being an arc of

Oct. 1873.] WASHING-MACHINE Co. v. TOOL Co.

843

Statement of the case.

a circle. This yoke had a pair of jaws and a clamp-wedge
for securing the friame to the side of a tub. To the yoke
frame a hinged frame E was attached, which, when in position, stood at right angles with the yoke, as shown in the
engraving. At the middle point of the cross-bar which
united the two sides of the hinged frame there was set a
" hitching-pin," F, around which the clothes to be wrung
were partially wound and held fast by the left hand of the
washer'woman, While with her right hand she turned the
rotary clamp in Figure 2, which formed a part of the machine, and which gave to the clothes the twist which expelled the water.
The rotary clamp shown at Figure 2 must be supposed to
be set in the yoke B of Figure 1. It had a ring, H, with
FIG 1.

FIG. 2.

00

flanged edges to hold the clamp in the yoke. I and-", were
lever jaws which jammed against the portion of the clothes
inside the ring, and K was a gag for locking the levers.
The outer edge of the ring, H, was firnished at intervals with.
notches, with which the pawl, P (Figure 1), could.be made
to engage, so that the rotary clamp, when the clothes were
twisted, could be prevented from turning backwards, and
the washerwoman would be able, if she wished to do so, to
gripe with both hands around the hitching-pin, F, the portion of the clothes "rendered."

844

WASHING-MACHINE Co. v. TOOL Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

With the exception of the model in the Patent Office,
there was no evidence that a machine of the kind had ever
been constructed. It was too complicated to be practicable.
Such being the machine, the Washing Macllie Company,
complainant in this case (or Sylvanus Walker, rather, from
whom the complainants, got it), bought the patent of Sergeant, and obtained the reissue on which this bill wasfounded.
The apparent idea in getting the reissue was that the apparatus shown at Figure 2 was a wringing mechanism, and
was the equivalent of a pair of squeezing rollers; that the
yoke-frame (Figure 1) was an apparatus separable from the
clamp (Figure 2), and performed the office of supporting
such wringing mechanism; and furthermore, that such supporting mechanism was peculiar in the fact that it had a
clamping jaw attached to it which made it capable of being
temporarily fastened to a tub. The complainant proposed,
therefore, to divide the machine and to claim the yoke-frame
and its device for being clamped to a tub, as a separate structure, without regard to whether the wringing mechanism
used with such "supporting and connecting apparatus"
were rollers or a twister.
The cut, Figure 3, on the page opposite, represents the
structure claimed in the reissue under consideration. The
specification and claims in this reissue were thus:
" SPECIFICATION.

"The first part of this invention consists of a portable machine, which may be temporarily attached to one side of a common wash-tub, or readily disconnected therefrom, whenever desired, and is especially- adapted to wringing clothes.
"The second.part of this invention consists in a portable
frame, and employed for supporting the wringing mechanism
of the machine upon one side of a common wash-tub, by means
of a clamping device, which is made to gripeone side of a washtub, for the purnose of attaching and sustaining tenrporarily
the entire wringing mechanism of the machine upon one side
of a common wash-tub, in a firm and expeditious manner, regardless of the diameter of the tub, which greatly accelerates

Oct. 1873.]

WASHING-MACHINE

Co. v. TOOL CO.

345

Statement of the case.

the operations of washing, rinsing, and wringing of clothes, as
will be hereinafter more fully set forth and'described.
,'In the drawings annexed, A represents a common wash-tub.
B is a yoke whose inner margin is of Uform, the sides of which
extend upwards, forming uprights S S 1. From the lowei end
of yoke B extend t-wo jaws, C 0, the latter. of.which contains,
FIG. 8.

within a dovetail groove, a wedge or key, D, whose expoqed
side is made slightly concave, as shown in Figure 2. The office
of the above-described jaws and wedge is to hold the frame,
composed of the -yoke B with uprights S SI for supporting the
wringing mechanism of the machine, in position for use, on one
side of.a bommon wash-tub, in a permanent.manner, temporarily, regardless of the diameter of the tub or the thickness of
its rim, in reference to which service they are termed collectively the 'vise.'
"This arrangement affords great facility for successively
washing, rinsing, and wringing out the clothes from several
waters in as many tubs, the wringer being readily changed
from tub to tub.
"'Omitting to describe the general features of the wringing

346

WAsHING-MAcHINE

Co. v. TOOL Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

mechanism of the machine, which will form the subject of
another application for letters-patent, of even date with this,
and then more particularly the frame for supporting the wringing mechanism in position, and the clamping device by -which
the frame for holding the wringing mechanism is attached to
one side of a common wash-tub, which forms the subject of the
present invention.
"When it is desired to have free access to the tub, the wringer
may be instantly removed therefrom, so as to allow the operations of washing, rinsing, and wringing to succeed each other,
without trouble or delay; or the wringer may be detached instantly, for the purpose of cleaning its parts where dirt is apt
to lodge-a common necessity to avoid soiling the next batch
after dealing with much soiled or colored garments.
"It will be particularly observed that this wringing-machine
differs very materially with those heretofore constructed, in its
attachment, by a clamping device, to one side only of a common
wash-tub, so it can be constructed separate from and independent of the wash-Lub, to which it may be clamped, whenever
desired, regardless of its size or diameter; and a further distinctive feature consists in the manner of operation. The wringer
being placed in position on one side of the tub, and the jaws
made to gripe the same firmly, the clothes are admitted to the
wringing- mechanism of the machine, and pass through it as fast
as the water is expelled therefrom, and they are received at the
opposite side of the machine into a basket, piece by piece, as
they are wrung out. By this means articles that are of lighter
fabric, as lace curtains, can be operated upon lightly, as those
that are heavy require more force. By this meaiis lace curtains
may be wrung without injury, as the force required to expel the
water, when all are wrung together in a bag, will tear the
lighter fabrics before the water is sufficiently expelled from
those that are stout and heavy.,
"I am thus enabled to construct a winging-machine as a
separate and independent device from the wash-tub, box, or
other receptacle for receiving the water when expelled from
the clothes.
1,Wringers heretofore constructed have been attached to the
opposite sides of the box or vessel, consequently could not be
readily attached to common wash-tubs of various diameters,
therefore the box must be of a diameter to correspond to that

Oct. 1873.]

WASHING-MACHINE

Co. v. TOOL Co.

347

Statement of the case.

for which the wringer is adapted, and would thus constitute a
part of the device or wringing-machine. Thus, by means of the
portable frame -for holding the wringing mechanism adapted to
clamp the edge of one side only of a common wash-tub, I am
enabled to overcome the serious objections referred to above.
"In the clamping device of the invention, a wedge or setscrew, cam, or spring, when having a: bearing, so that when
power is applied to them they, in conjunction with the jaws,
gripe the edge of the tub, as a 'vise,' may be used, in the manner and for the purposes set forth.
" CLAINI.

"Having thus describea the invention, what is claimed hs
new, and desired to be secured by letters-patent, is"1. The employment or use of a portable frame or yoke, B,
with uprights, S S1, or their equivalents, for supporting a clotheswringing mechanism in position on one side of a common washtub, for the purposes set forth.
"2. The appfication of an adjustable clamping device, when
employed to attach a clothes-wringer to one side only of a washtub, substantially in the manner describdd and for the purposes
set forth."
The defendant's machine (of which a drawing appears
just below, Fig. 4) had two uprights.. It had also a crosspiece connecting the lower parts
FIG. 4.
of these uprights. It also had
_
jaws which extended below the
yoke, in positions to embrace the
side of a wash-tub, to which the
machine was to be applied; these
jaws being fitted with a screw for
the purpose of securing the machine to the object to which the
jaws were to be applied. -But, as
on reviewing it the court considered, it had not the U-formed yoke.
The defendant set up want of novelty in the complainant's
invention, so that it became l ecessary to consider the prior
state of the art and fix the extent of the claims in thb reissue.

348

WASHING-MACHINE

Co. v. TOOL Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

It was not denied that wringing-machines of diflerent
forms "and of more or less practical value had long been in
use, and that devices for clamping or attaching machines of
various descriptions to benches, tables, or other articles with
were used were ol and well known. Reels for
wichilhy
threal, vises, ev'eletti g machinies, fluting machi ies, ebeaters, and small miills had heen attached to benches and
tables hy clanping devices similar in principle to the one
described in Sergeant's patent.
It appeared also that a patent for a washing-machine had
5been issued to II. W.
Sabin, August 16th,
a~
.
S

0

~

1

1845. The cut, Fio. 5,
repr,'em ts I his wi-ini er; the pairts niarked
h nd y beiin-w a pair
fluted), which served
as a subsIii ute Joe

lit

the ordilary hitchinmg-

-pin

, onle end of, the
elothes being held fihst

between these rollers
while the other end
was secured to a contrivance which held them, so that, by
means of the crank supported in the screw-clamp, X, they
were twisted and made free fi'om water.
In this machine, as the reader will perceive, a wringerthe common twist-wringer--was supported by a standard
fhrnished with jaws and a clamp-screw, the two forming a
clamping device such as is in common use in all wrin-oers at
the present time. The slandard, however, was vot a U-fornmed
yoke-frame, but was simply a support for the journal of a
shaft, although the standard had jaws and a clamping screw
adapted to secirre the standard to the sides of a w-tsh-tub.
Unless, therefore, the U form of the yoke-frame in Sergeant's mechanism was to be considered as an essential part
of Sergeant's invention, as distinguished from the standard

Oct. 1873.]

WASHING-MACHINE

Co. v. ToOL Co.

849

Opinion of the court.

in Sabin's machine, which was simply a support for ajournal, there was apparently no novelty.
The question, therefore, was whether the U-formed yoke
was an essential part of the invention sought to be secured
by the reissue. If it was, the defendants did not infringe,
since they did not use ihe U-formed yoke, while the other
parts of their machine were old.
The court below held that the reissue was only for a combination, and that "the U-formed yoke-frame in the Sergeant machine was necessary as a device for supporting a
clothes-wringing mechanism in the manner and for the purposes
set forth."
That court accordingly dismissed the bill, and the complainants appealed.
Messrs. J. H. Parsonsand T. A. Jenckes, for the appellants;
Messrs. B. E. Thurston anud C.L. Woodbutry, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question presented by this appeal is whether the
reissued patent has been infriiged by the defendants. To
a correct determination of this question it is indispensable
to understand precisely what the patent covers.
The mechanism described in the spe~ification is not claimed
to be a complete clothes-wringer. It is rather a, device for
suspending a wringer over a common wash-tub, a portable
frame which may be attached to one side of the tub, and
detached at pleasure. In the description of the drawings
accompanying' the specification, and a part thereof, it is
called a frame for supporting the wrining mechanism of
the machine as attached to one side or"a common wvash-tub
by means of a clamping device, and the first part of the invention is said to consist of a portable' machine which may
be temporarily attached to one side of a common wash-tub
or readily disconnected therefrom whenever desired, and is
especially adapted to wringing clothes.
The second part of the invention, as described in the specification, consists in a portable frame employed for supporting

350

WASHING-MACHINE Co. v. TooL Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the wringing mechanism of the machine upon one side of
a common wash-tub by means of a clamping device, which is
made to gripe one side of a wash-tub for the purpose of attaching and sustaining temporarily the entire wringing niechanism of the machine in a firm and expeditions manner, regardiess of the diameter of the tub. Such is the language
of the patentee. The specification then refers to the drawings, in which what is called the first part of the invention
is represented as "a yoke whose inner margin is of a U form,
the si(les of which extend upward, foiming uprights." From
the lower end of the yoke extend two jaws, one of which
contains within a dovetail groove a wedge or key whose
exposed side is made slightly concave. The office of the
jaws and wedge is to hold the above-described friame or
yoke for supporting the wringing mechanism of the machine
in position for use on one side of a common wash-tub, in a
permanent manner, temporarily, regardless of the diameter
of the tub, or the thickness of its rin, in reference to which
service they are termed collectively, the "vise."
Then follow the claims of the patent, the first of which is " the
employment of a portable frame or yoke B (which in the
drawings is represented as a U-shaped upright frame), with
uprights, S, S' (the sides of the yoke), or their equivalents,
for supporting a CIothes-wringing mechanism in position on
one side of a common wash-tub, for the purposes set forth."
The second claim is "the application of an adjustable
clamping device, when employed to attach a clothes-wringer
to-one side only of a wash-tub, substantially in the manner
deseribed and for the purposes set forth."
Regarding these two claims as descriptive of two distinct
things,-the first must refer to the U-shaped yoke or frame
for supporting a wringing-machine, as exhibited i- the drawings, and explained in the specification,-and the second to a
combination of the yoke with a clamping (evice, when employed io 'hold a clothes-wringer-t*6 the side of a tub. It
need hardly be said that the claims are to be construed with
reference to the state of 'he art at the time when the alleged
invention was made. The case shows that clothes-wringers

Oct. 1873.]

WASHING-MACHINE Co. v. TooL Co.

351

Opinion of the court.

of many kinds were known and in use before the original
patent was granted to Sergeant. These all had frames for
holding them in position, some attaced permanently to the
wash-tub and others detachable. Their prior existence is
recognized in this patentee's specification. Clamping devices of many varieties were also old and well-known means
of fastening machines or tupports for machines to chairs,
benches, platforms, tables, and other articles. Apple-paring
machines, coffee-grinders, thread-reels, and smith and carpenters' vises had been supported and held in position by
devices like in principle to the clamping arrangement described in- the complainants' patent. And it is in proof that
letters-patent for a washing-machine were granted to II. W.
Sabin, on the 16th of August, 1845, in which a clamping
device for attaching the support of a wringing-machine to
the side of a tub, and in combination with the support was
employed; a device consisting of jaws at the lower extremity
of the support, with a screw for compression, identical in
principle with that claimed by the complainants. It is very
obvious, therefore, if their patent can be sustained at all, it
cannot be construed as claiming all forms of a portable
frame or support for a washing-machine, nor a combination
of a clamping device with any and every kind of such support or frame.
It may well be doubted whether a frame with no distinctive peculiarities, intended for the support of a wringing-machine and sufficient for such a use, though so constructed as
to be capable of being attachaed by projecting jaws to the top
of a wash-tub, could be regarded as patentable. Such a mode
of attachment has been known and employed time out of
mind, and if, before the Sergeant patent was granted, it had
not been used in connection with, or as part of a frame or
standard for the support of a wringing-machine, the new application, without any novel and useful result, could hardly
be considered invention. It would be but a case of double
use. Besides, to this extent the Sabin machine had reached
years befoie the Sergeant patent was granted, and, therefore, unless the complainants' patent is limited to some

352

WASHING-MACHINE Co. V. TOOL Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the'court.

distinctive features other than the jaws at the bottom of the
yoke br frame, it must fail for want of novelty if not fbr
want of invention. And this we do not understand to be
seriously questioned. We do not understand the complainants as contending that either of the claims of their patent
should not be construed as embracing only the peculiarly
constructed f-anrie or yoke described in the specification.
What, then, are the distinctive features of the frame, and
what are the proposed offices of these features? Manifestly
the thing sought to be secured by the peculiarity of form
described was not merely a support for a wringing-machine,
not nerely a standard to hold the machine in position, but
a manner of support. And beyond all doubt the U form of
the frame is essential. Indeed, it is the only form exhibited.
in the drawings and described in the specification. The
purpose of the frame is also avowed to be to support the
clothes-wringer, and the frame exhibits no means of support
except the semicircular bottom of the U, which forms a
journal bearer, on which the journal of the wringer may
rest, while the uprights serve to keep it in position. By
themselves the uprights serve no other purpose, and they
are no more essential than is the curvilinear space between
them, the bottom of the U in the interior of the yoke. It is
true a clothes-wringer might be attached to them by the aid
of additional devices, but no such devices are disclosed in
the drawings or in the specification, and had they been added
the frame would have been substantially diflient from the
one patented. It would have been capable of a new use.
Equally well could additional devices have fitted the Sabin
standard for use in a manner different from that in which it
vas employed.
Discarding, then, the jaws and the wedge, or other clamping device, as neither. patentable by themselves nor patentable in combinatiqu with a wringing-machine supporter, or
frame,'in view of the state of the art when this pateit was
issued, unless'the structure of the frame was such as to obtain a novel and useful result, it becomes evident that the
.shape of the frame must be regarded as one of its most im-

Oct. "1873.]

HAILES V. VAN WORMER.
Syllabus.

portant elements. And if this be so, the novelty of the
frame does not consist in its having two uprights standing
apart from each other without regard to the figure of the intervening space. As we have seen, if the' semicircular shape
of what in the specificatioii is called the inner margin' of the
yoke, that is, of the space, between the uprights, is not a
necessary constituent, the yoke cannot accomplish the results claimed for it, and no manner of support for a wringer
is exhibited. Surely a framo shaped like an inverted M (T),
though it would have tivo uprights separated by a space and
conneqted at the bottom, wouldbe essentially different fromn
-that claimed in this patent, because incapable of the same
use. , It could not support a clothes-writfger in the manner
described in the drawingsannexed to the patent. A space
bounded by righ't lines is not substantially the same as one
bounded by a curve, and unless we throw out of the specification and the claims all that -is said respecting. the configu-ration of the interval between the uprights, we must 'hold
that the defendants, in the use Of their device, have not
been guilty or any infringement of the complainants'. rights.
They have used a portable support for a wringiug mechanism which has some of the features of that of the complaihants, but it has not the U-fcrmed yoke, which is essential to
the patented comhbination.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

This case was argued before the CHIEF JUSTICE took
his seat and he did not participate in the judgment.

HAIRM V. VAN WORMER.
1. A ned combination, if it,produces new and useful results, is patentable,
though all the constituents of the-combination were well known and in
common;)ise before the combination was made. But the results must
,be a product of the combination, and not a mere aggregate of several
results, each the comnlete product of one of the combined elements.
VOL. XX

28

