Oct. 1873.]

STOCKDAI,E V. INSURANCE
COMPANIES.
t

823

Statement of the case.

STOCKDALE

v. THE

INSURANCE

COMPANIES.

1. The cases of Barnes v. The Railroad (17 Wallace, 294), and United .tatos
v. Railroad 0.npany (Ib. 822), considered and compared.
2. Held, that whether the tax on dividends arising from the earnings of corporations for the year 1869 be viewed its a tax on the shareholder or on
the corporation, it was intended to tax the earnings for that year by the
section which limited the duration of the income tax.
8. Scc,:,
seventeen of the act of July 14th, 1870. construing certain sections
of the Internal Revenue law of 1864 to extend the tax to the year 1870
is valid, because it is not an attempt to exercise judicial power by construing a statute for the court, but is a mode of continuing or reviving
a tax which might have been supposed to have expired.
4. As this merely imposed a tax retrospectively, it Was within the legislative power of Congress, and the case differs from aneffort to invade private rights by construing a low affecting those rights, over which Congress had no power whatever.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana;
the case being thus:
The 116th section of the act of June 30th, 1864, as
amended by the 13th sectiou of the act of March 2d, 1867,*
enacts :
ERROR

"SECTION 116. That there shall be levied, collected, and paid
annually upon the gains, profits, and income of every person residing in the United States, or of any cdizen of the Unite'd
States residing abroad, whether derived from any kind of property, rents, interest, dividends, or salaries, or from any profession, trade, employment, or vocation, carried on in the United
States or elsewhere, or from any other source whatever, a tax of
five per centum on the amount so d erived ovbr $1000, and a like
tax shall be levied, collected, and paid annually upon the gains,
profits, and income of every business, trade, or profession carried on in the United States by persons residing without the
United States, and not citizens thereof. And the tax hurein
provided for shall be assessed; collected, and paid upon the
gains, profits, and income for the year ending the 31st day of
December next preceding the time for levying,'cllecting, and
paying said tax."
* 18 Stat. at Large, 281; 14 Id. 477.

STOCKbALE V. INSURANCE COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The 117th section of the same act, as amended in the
same way, required that there should be included, inter alia,
in the estimate of gains, profits, and income, which the act
made it obligatory on the taxpayer to return, the share of
any person of the gains and profits of all companies, whether
incorporated or partnership, who would be entitled to the
same if divided, whether divided or otherwise,
":Except the amount of income received from institutions or
corporations whose officers, as required by law, withhold a per
centum of the dividends made by such institutions, and pay the
same to the officer authorized to receive the same, and except
that portion of the salary or pay received for services in the
civil, military, or naval, or other service of the United States,
including. senators, representatives, and delegates in Congress,
from which the tax has been deducted."
The 118th section related to the manner of the party's
making and the assessor's obtaining returns of that portion
of the taxpayer's income which was to be paid by such taxpayer directly.
The 119th section, as amended by the already-mentioned
section of the act of March 2d, 1867,* enacts:
"SEcTIoN 119. That the taxes on incomes herein imposed

shall be levied on the 1st day of March, and be due and payable
on or before the 30th day of April in each year, until and including
the year 1870, and no longer."
The 120th section, as amended by the 9th section of the
act of July 13th, 1866,t enacts :
"That there shall be levied and collected a tax of five per
.centum on all dividends thereafter declared due, whenever the
same shall be payable to stockholders, policy-holders, or depositors or parties whatsoever, as part of the earnings, income,
or gains of any bank, trust company, savings institution, and
of any fire, marine, life, or inland insurance company, in the
United States, and on all undistributed sums, or sums made or
18 Stat. at Large, 283; 14 Id. 480.
t"13 lb. 283; 14 Id. 138.

Oct. 1873.]

STOCKDALE

V. INSURANCE OOMPANIES.

325

Statement of the case.

added during the year to their surplus or contihgent funds.
And said banks, trust companies, savings institutions, and insurance companies shall pay the said tax, and are hereby authorized
to deduct and withhold from all payments made on account of
any dividends or sums of money that may be due anil payable
as aforesaid, the said tax of five per centum. And a list or return shall be made and rendered to the assessor. And for any
default in the ma1ding or rendering of such list or return, with
such declaration annexed, the bank, trust company, savings institution, or insurance company making such default. shall forfeit as a penalty the sum of $1000.1
The 121st section enacted that any bank of issue which
should not make a dividend or add to its surplus fund as
often as once in six months should make a return to the assessor of the district, where it was, of its profits during
every six months precedipg the 1st of January and July, &e.
The 122d section, as amended by the 9th section of the
act of July 13th, 1866, after enacting that any railroad,
canal, turnpike, catild navigation, or slack-water company,
indebted by bonds &c., upon which interest is to be paid, or
any such company that may have declared any dividend,
due or payable to its stocklolders, as part of the earnings,
profits, income, or gains of such company, and all profits'of
such company carried to the account of any fund, or used
for construction, shall be subject to and pay a tax of five per
centum on the amount'of all such interest, dividends, or
profits, whenever the same shall be payable, proceeds:
"And said companies are hereby authorized to deduct and withhold from all payments on account of any interest, . . . and dividends, due and -payable as aforesaid, the tax of five per centum ;
and the payment of the amount of said tax so deducted from
the interest, or coupons, or dividends, and certified by the
president or treasurer of said company, shall discharge said
company."
The 128d section of the same act, as amended by the 18th
section of the act of March, 1867, enacted:
"SE CTION 128. That there shall be levied, collected, and paid
on all salaries of officers, or payments for services to persons, in

326

STOCKDALE V. INSURANCE COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the civil, military, naval, or other employment or service of the
United States, including senators, representatives, and delegates
in Congress, when exceeding the rate of $1000 per annum, a
tax of five per centum on the excess above the said 81000; and
it shall be the duty of all paymasters and all disbursing officers
under the government of the United States, or persons in the
employ thereof, when making any payment to any officers or
persons as aforesaid, whose compensation is determined by a
fixed salary, or upon settling or adjusting the accounts of such
officers or persons, to deduct and withhold the aforesaid tax of
five per centumr; and the pay-roll, receipts, or account of officers
or persons paying such tax as aforesaid, shall be made to exhibit the fact of such payment."
On the 14th of July, 1870, Congress passed an act, entitled " An act to reduce internal taxation and for other
purposes." This act repealed certain sections of the previous internal revenue acts ; limited the duration of" others,
•and reduced the income tax in certain cases from five to
two and a half per cent. ; limiting its duration.
By its 17th section it enacted
"That sections 120, 121, 122, and 123 of the act of June 30th,
1864, &e., as amended by the act of' July 13th, 1866, and the
act of March 2d, 1867,* SHALL, BE CONSTRUED to impose the
taxes therein mentioned to the 1st day of August, 1870, but
after that date no further taxes shall be levied or assessed under
said sections."
In this state of statutory enactment, Stockdale, collector
bf internal revenue at New Orleans, assessed a tax on the Atlantic Insurance Company (and on certain other insurance,
railroad, and banking companies of that city), " on the earnings which had accrued to said company between the 5th
day of July, 1869, and the 30th of June, 1870." The dividend was declared after this latter date. The taxes were
paid under protest and the companies having brought suits
in the court below to recover them, and having there got
judgments against the collector for them, that officer brought
the cases here by the presentwrit of error.
* These are the sections quoted supra, pp. 324-326, &c.

Oct. 1873.]

STOCKDALE V. oINSURANCE COMPANIES.

327

Argument against the tax.

Two questions accordingly arose here:
1. Was the tax valid as to that part of the dividend which
arose from the .earnings of the year 1869?
2. Was it valid as to that part which arose from the.earnings of the year 1870 ?
Messrs. Charles Case and . D. Rouse, in support of the
judgment below..
1. The tax of five per cent. imposed upon the dividends of railroad companies by section 122 of the act of June 30th, 1864, as
amended, is a tax upon the income of the stockholder, and not a
tax upon the corporation.
This is expressly decided in United States v. Railroad Company,* where the government sought to collect a tax from
the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, on interest due
on bonds of that company held by the city of Baltimore;
and where it failed because the revenues of a municipality.
in'corporated by the State are not taxable. If anything to
the conti'ary to this was adjudged in the case of -Barnesv.
The .ailroads,t decided five weeks previously, it was overruled in the later case. But the official reports of the two
cases show plainly, that nothing different was adjudged, and
that the learned justice who announced the judgment of the
court in the Barnes' case, while he, rightly announced the
judgment, misconceived the ground upon which the majority of the'court -went; and that the decisioq in the later
chse is reconcilable with the judgment in the former, though
not-with certain assertions in. the opinion thep delivered by
the learned judge who announced that judgment,t as to
what "the court' decided.
2. The tax upon incomes iinposed by th~e act of June 30th,
1864, as amended, epfred by limitation the 31st day of,-December,. 1869.
The limitation is found iu section 119, Which provides
"that-thetaxes 6n incomes herein imposed shall be levied
-

17 W019lce, 822.

t Ib. 294.

1Ib. 885, 886.

328

STOCKDALE V.

INSURANCE COMPANIES.

[Sup.

Cf.

Opinion of the court.

on the 1st day of March, and he due and payable on or before the 30th day of April in each year, untfil and including
the year 1870, aud no longer." It is elsewhere provided
that the taxes so to be levied were to be levied upon the in-comes " for the year ending the 31st day of December iiext
preceding the time for levying, collecting, and paying said
tax." Therefore the last levying of such tax being fbr the
year 1870, it was limited to income of 1869.
3. There has been no legislation which could effect an extension
of the time during which such lax could be imposed.
The 17th section of the act of July 14th, 1870, is simply
declaratory of the opinion of Congress, and not a re-enactment of the law itself. This very attempt to continue the
law in force by constructionis an admission that it had expired. Now the construction of statutes belongs, not to
Congress but'to the juclmiary. If the law were still in force,
the judiciary would be bound to place upon it a construction given byCongress, and Congressional construction
would have the effect of legislation, after the passage of the
act. Bi Congress cannot construe statutes retroactively.
This is perfectly settled.*
Mr. G. -ff.Williams, Atorney-General, and dBr. S.
lips, Solicitor-General. contra.

.Phil-

Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit brought in the court below against the
plaintiff in error in his official character to recover taxes
collected by him, which are alleged to have been illegally
assessed against the insurance company. The appeal of the
company to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue having
been decided against it,the tax was paid- and suit brought
within six nionths, as provided by the act of Congress. The
insurance company re6overed a judgment in the Circuit
Court, and the collector brings a writ of error in the interest
Ogden v. Blackiedge, 2 Cranch, 272; United States v.Dickson, 15 Peters, 162; United States v. Klein, 13 Wallace, 128.

Oct. 1873.]

329

STOCKDALE. V "INSURANCE COMPANIES.
Opinion of the court.

6f the government, the object of which is to test, the legality
of the tax thus levied -andcollected.
, An agreed 'statement of facts. shows that the taxes cornplaindd of w.ere assessed upon dividends declared by the insurance company,." on the earnings which had accrued to
said company between th&' 5th 'day of Jpily, 1869, and th
'30th day -ofJiunhe, 1870;" und'the dividend was declared
after the latter date.
This short.statemeit raises two questions: 1. Was the
tax valid as to so much of the dividend as Arose from the
earnings of the year 1869? '2. Was it valid as to that which'
arose frorh the eariiingd 'b the year 1870?
-As 'regards the first proposition, it.was much considered.
in"the Barnes cases.* It was argued in: those' cass ,withmuch ability, -and fdur members 6f the.court were of that'
QpHilion that the entire income tax ekpired with "the year
1869, and that' as the tax in those cases, as'in thse, was
-assessed on dividends declared ip .the.year 1870, they were
without authority of law..
The.argument in those caes,.so f~r as the opinion-of the
court was conceined, turned mainly on the question whether
the law inteaded to impos the tax ol the eiconie of the
q orp6ration, in which case it -was obviously the "income of,
1869 which was taxed, and, therefore, properly taxed; or on
the incomeof the stockholder, ascertaine4 *by his dividend,
in which case the minoi'ity of, the' c6urt thought that div.idends declarer] ifi1879. were not-liable to the tax, because
the taxing power 6inder the law expired with'the preceding
-eaV. It is,_perhaps, fairly iriferable filom the report of those'
cases, and the opinion in the .subsequent case-of The Unitvd
States v. Baltimore and Ohio'B ilroad coimpany,t th. t A.mong
those *h'o composed the majority irr the Barnes cases, therewere some sfiades of diftbrence in -the precise grounds on
which the validity of the taxes rested..
'Without reopening that subject for. an inquiry into those
dilfrences, it maybe said that the question whether the tax
'A

--- 1._lza--ra.

f-.17. I.'

2.

380

STOOKDALE V. INSURANCE COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

was, in those cases, a tax on the shareholder or on the corporation, was, and is, one of form rather than substance.
The tax is imposed by the statute alike on all dividends
declared, and on all undistributed earnings of the corporation, and it is made the duty of the corporation to pay it.
It is also made the duty of the corporation to make returns of these dividends and undivided earnings to the
proper internal revenue officer, under a heavy penalty.
In the case of dividends declared, the corporation is authorized to deduct the amount of the tax from the dividend
due to the shareholder, before paying it to him.
And it follows from this, that when a dividend is declared
to any shareholder, whose dividen*d is for any special reason
exempt from such tax, as in the case of the city of Baltimore
on her stock in the railroad company, then the corporation
declaring the dividend is not liable.
The effect of such a tax on the shareholder is the same,
whether it be considered a tax on his share for the dividend
earned by his share, or on the corporation on account of said
earnings. And it is the same, whether the tax is imposed
on the undivided earnings, or on those earnings after they
have been divided. H-e in any and all these cases, in point
of fhet, ultimately suffers to that extent, or loses the amount
of the tax. We are of opinion that the statute intended to
tax those earnings for the year 1869, whether divided or
,undivided, and that the tax now in question is to that extent
valid.
The question arising, out of the tax in these cases, so far
as the dividends are based on the earnings of the corporation for the year 1870, presents other considerations.
In the view taken by this court in the Barnes cases, it did
not become necessary to pass upon the validity and effect of
the seventeenth section of the act of 1870.* That is entitled
an act to reduce internal taxes, and for other purposes. -It
repealed several sections of'the internal revenue law absolutely. It fixed a period in the future for the essation of
* 16 Stat. at Large, 261.

Oct. 1873.]

STOCKDAL

V..-NSURANCE

(J0MPANIES."

881

OpihiQfri of the court.

others, and it reduced the income tax -in a certain class of
cases fi'om five to two and a half per cent., and provided for
its continuance through the-years 1870 and 1871; at tie end
of which all income tax was.to cease.
The section we are'considering declared that sections 120,
121, 122, and 128 of the internal revenue law of 1864, as
modified by subsequent statutes, "shall be construed. to impose the taxes therein mentioied to the first day of August,
1870, and after that date no further taxes shall be levied or
assessed under said sections; and all acts or parts of acts
relating to the taxes herein repealed, and all the provisions,
of said acts shall continue in full force for levying and collecting all takes properly assessed, or liable to be assessed,
or accruing under the provisions of former acts," &c., &c.
Bat for the unfortunate. and unnecessary use of the word
"construe" in this sentence, we apprehend that none of the.
resistance to the class of taxes now under consideration
would have been thought of.
The right of Congress to have imposed this fax by a-new
statute, although the measure of it was governed by the income of the past year, cannot be doubted;. much less can it
be doubted that it could impose sucli a tax on the income
of the current year, though part of that year had elapsed
when the statute was passed. The joint-'resolution of July
4th, 1864, imposed a tax of five percent. upon all income of.
the previous year, although onie tax on it had already been
paid, and no one doubted the validity of the tax or attempted
to resist it.
Both in principle and authority it may be taken to 16
established, that a legislative body may by statute declar
the construction of previous statutes so as to bind the coutts
in reference to all transactions occurring after the passage
of the law, and may in many cases thus furnish the rule to
govern the courts in transactions which are past, provided
no constitutional right of the party concerned is violated.*
Sedgwick on Statutory Law, 253; Municipdlity 1No. 1 -o. Wheeler, 10
Louisiana Annual, 747.

STOCKDALE V. INSURANCE COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

In the case of thd Wheeling Bridge,* this court, in a suit
brought under its originial jurisdicfion by the State of Pennsylvainia, had declared the bridge a nuisance and decreed its
modification or abatement. Congress then passed a law declarinig it a post route and a lawful structure as it stood, and
this court recognizing the right of Congress to regulate such
a bridge under the eonmerce clause or the Constitution, dismissed the case from its further consideration.
This doctrine is reaffirmed in the case of the Clinton
Brid(qe.t
It is'undoubtedly true that, in our system of government,
the law-nialking power is vested in Congress, and the power
to construe laws in the course of their administration between citizens, in the courts. And it may be conceded that
Congress canthot, under cover of giving a construction to an
existing or an expired statute, invade private rights, with
which it could not interfere by a new or affirmative statute.
But where it can exercise a power by passing a new statute, which may be retroactive in its effect, the form of words
'which, it uses to put this power in operation cannot be materihl, if the purpose is clear, and that purpose is within the
power. Congress could have passed a law to reimpose this
tax retrospectively, to revive the sections under consideration if they had expired, to re-enact the law by a simple
reference to the sections. Has it done anything more? Has
it intended to do anything more? Are we captiously to
construe the use of the word " construe" as an invasion of
the judicial function where the effect of the statute and the
purpose of the statute are clearly within the legislative function ?
k A critical view of the vhole of the statute of
1870 shows
that it was designed to recast the internal revenue laws, to
repeal some taxes, modify others, and declare the re-enactmeit or continuance of others for a limitedtime. And this
was especially true of the class of taxes embraced under the
general head of income taxes of all kinds. The paragraph
"* IS Howard, 421.

t10

Wallace, 454.

Oct. 1873.]

STOCKDALE V.

INSURANCE

COMPANIES.

333

Opinion of Bradley, J., and the Chief Justice, concurring.

we have been considering was not in its essence an attempt
to construe a statute differently frorn what the courts had
constrned it, for no construction on this subject had been
given by any court. Nor was it an attempt by construing a
statute to interfere with or invade personal rights which
were beyond the constitutional power of Congress. But it
was a legitihiate exercise of the taxing power by which a
tax, which niight be supposed to have expired, was revived
and colntinued in existence for two years longer.
It was, therefore, valid for that purpose,.and the tax must
be upheld. It follows that on the agreed statement of facts
judgment should have been rendered for the defendant in
the Circuit Court, and the judgment of that court is reversed and the ca~e remanded, with directions to enter such
a judgnient.
This opinion disposes of all the cases, thirteen in number,
in which Stockdale is plaintiff in error, submitted with this,
and the same judgmeut is rendered in each of these cases.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY (with whom concurred the CHIEF
JUSTICE).
Whilst I concur in the opinion of the court, it seems to
me that the decision may be placed on a still more satisfictory ground.
The taxes in question were levied in 1870 under the 120th
and 122d sections of the Internal Revenue Act of 1864, as
amended. They were, in som)e cases, for earnings made in
1869, but divided* in 1870, and in others for earnings made.
partly in 1869 and partly in 1870 (prior to the first of July,
in the latter year), and divided in 1870, prior to July, except
in one case, in which the dividend was declared on the 5th
of July.
If the 119th section of the Internal Revenue Act, which
directed that the income tax should cease to be colleeted in
1870, did not apply to the taxes imposed by the120th and
122d sections, there is no doubt of the validity of the faxes
in question, for there was no other limitation of time affixed
to those sections except that made by the act of July 14th,

334

STOCKDALE 'V.

INSURANCE

COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of Bradley, J., and the Chief Justice, congurring.

1870, which declared that sections 120 and 122 should be in
force until the 1st of August, 1870, and no longer. I am
clearly of opinion now, as I always have been, that the 119th
section did not apply to the taxes imposed by sections 120
and 122. The group of sections from 116 to 119,-iiiclsive,
stood by themselves in the Internal Revenue Act of 1862
under the head of "income tax," forming sections 89 to 93
of that act. They related to the annual income tax payable
by individuals directly. They did not include the taxes payable by' banks, insurance, railroad, and canal companies in
respect of their dividends and earnings, and in respect of
the interest on the bonds of the latter companies. The latter taxes were payable at a different time and in a different
manner. The personal income tax was carefully defined,
and the respective duties of the individual and the assessor
in reference to it were first fully set forth, and then came
the 119th section, which, in"conclusion, directed when the
tax for each calendar year, thus imposed, should be levied,
anid when it should be paid, namely (as directed in the last
.revision), it was to be levied in March and paid before the
30th of April in each year, " until and including the year
1870, and no longer." This last expression is the one on
Wvhich this whole question has been raised. By the connectiohl of the sentence, the meaning of the terms, and the rules
of logic as well as grammar, this phrase can only apply to
the annual personal tax of which alone section 119 is treating.
The taxes imposed by sections 120 and 122 on the banks,
insurance, railroad, and canal companies (which were never
included in the annual income tax, but expressly excluded,
or excepted therefrom) may be,.as, in the Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad case, we decided they -'ere substantially,
tiqxes on the stockholders and bondholders, though nominally, and in form, imposed on the companies. Still, they
.are not :referred to in the 119th section. The only taxes
referred to in that section were thoge annual taxes, payable
direcdy by the inidividuals themselves, in April (or some
otlher month) of each year. The corporation taxes were not
thus "payable,.and were not included in the limitation.

Oct. 1873.]

STOCKDALE V.

INSURANCE COMPANIES.

835

Opinion of Bradley, J., and the Chief Justice, concurring.

The phrase in question is first found in the Internal Revenue Act of July 1st, 1862, 12 Stat. 474, sec. 92. That act is
divided into various parts, ganged under distinct and separate headings, which are insetted in large capitals in the
body of the act. Thuswe'have sections 68 to 75 under the
head of "manufactures, articles, and produdis;" section 76,
under "auction sales;" section 77, under "carriaqes, :.&c.;"
sections 78 and 79, u ider "slauqhtered cattle, hogs, and sheep;"
section 80, under "railroads, steamboats, and ferry-boats," imposing a .tax of three per cent. on gross earnings; section
81, under " railroadbonds," being the section corresponding
to section 122 in the act of 1864; sections 82 to 85, under
"banks, trust companies, savings institutions, and i.surance companies," corresponding to sections 120, 121 in the act of
1864; sections*86, 87,.under "salaries and pay of officers, t.. ;"
section 88, .under "advertisements;" sections 89 to 93, under
"income duty," 'co'responding to sections 116 to 119 of the
act of 1864, and so qn. Under the last head, section 02
commences as follows: "That the duties on incomes herein
imposed shall be due and payable on or before the 30th day
of June, in the year 1863, and in each year thereafter, until
and including the year 1866, and no longer; and to any sum or
sums annually duo and unpaid for thirty days after the 30th
of June, as aforesaid, and for ten days after demand ther'eof,
&c., there shall be levied, in addition thereto, the sum of five
per centurn, &c., as a penalty, &c." HIere we have the exaci
language of section 119 in the act of 1864 and its snbseqiiy_
amendments. An inspection of the. act of 1862 shows de
mon.strably that the language of this section refers only to
th'e income tax imposbd by section 89, which exactly corre-sponds to section 116 of the act Of 1864. - I believe no one
who- has carefully examined the act of 1862 ever had a doubt
on the subj.ect.
N w, all th6se various provisions for differen t classes of
taxes are contained in the act of 1864 and the several acts
amendatory thereof, but. somewhat differently collocated.
'Thus the se.ctions on incoic duty in the latter act are seetions 116 to 119, ande come before the sections on railroad

836

STOCKDALE V. INSURANCE COMPANIES.

[Sup., Ct.

Opinion of Strong, Davil, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

bonds, banks, &c., which are sections 120 to 1.22. But the
general frame of the sections, and the language used in each
respectively, are the same. Can it be posqible that the

phrase, "until and including the year 1870, and no longer,". in
section 119 of the latter act, standing, as it does, in subsfantially the same sentence aind relative section as the corresponding words did in the act of 1862, embraced within
'their scope whole classes of taxes which' it did not embrace
in the act of 1862? taxes totally repugnant as to time and
,.manner of payment to those described, and specially referred to in the section and sentence where the words occur..
Such cannot, it seems to me, be the true construction of the
act.
It is not necessary for us to explain why it was that a
period was fixed to the income tax proper,, and not to the
tages payable 'by the companies on diyidends and interest.
*The former was at exceedingly odious tax, involving an inquiry into all the sources of every individual's income, and'
it piay well have been the design of Congress to indicate
froth the start that it was to be only temporary in its operation. But no one, I think, can carefully con .)are the two
acts, of 1862 and 1864, without coming to the conclusion
that the limit bf the income tax was aflixed only to that.tax
designated as "income tax" in the act of 1862.
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

Mi. Justice STRONG, with whom concurred 'Justices

DAVIS and FIELD, dissenting.
I dissent from the judgments given' in these cases, and
from the reasons assigned in support of the judgments.
If it ever was claimed,. it is no longer contended by any
one that the tax on dividends and Federal salaries, for the
collcdtion and payment of which 'provision was made by the
120th, 122d,'and 123d sections of the Internal- Revenue Act
of 1864, -nd its amendments, was not a tax upon' income,.
and a part of-the income tax levied by the 116th section of
the act. And, notwithstanding what was decided in .Barnes

Oct. 1873.]

STOCKDALE V. :INSURANCE COMPANIES.

387

Opinion of Strong, Davis, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

v.. The Bailroads,* I regard it as having been settled by the
subsequent case of The United States v. The Baltimore and Oio
Railroad Company,t that the tax on dividends declared and
interest payable by the companies mentioned in the 122d
section was a-tax upon the stockholders and bondholders of
the companies, and not a tax upon the corporations. Of
this opinion were all.the judges of this court except two.
Though the corporations were by the law made agents of
the government for collecting it and paying it over, the tax
itself was ruled to be a part of the income tax of the persons
et :tledto the interest or dividends. For the same reasojns
which -compelled such a decision, the tax upon dividend
declared by banking, trust, and insurance companies and
the tax upon Federal salaries, fdr the collection and payment
of which provision was made in the 120th and the 123d sections of the act, were income taxes of the shareholders of
those companies, and of the officers from whose salaries they
were directed to be deducted.
And if this be so, then the tax in controversy in these
cases was a tax upon the income of 1870, and'not upon the
income of 1869. None of the dividends were declared untilafter January 1st, 1870, and some of them not until many
months after that date. True the funds out of which the
dividends were made were composed of earnings of the company, in some cases wholly and in others partly, in 1869;
but these earnings were not available to the shareholders
until the dividends were made out of them. Until then they
were in no sense the income oQf the sharelholders and taxable
as such. In the express words of the act, it was income derivid by the taxpayer which alone was made subject to the
tax. The language of the law was that the duty on the
dividends should be paid "whenever the same" (that is the
dividends) "shall be payable." And such was-the construction which was from the beginoiag given to the act. Prior
to the enactment of 1864 there was an income tax on divi
dends at the rate of three per cent., and when by that act
j- lb. 322.

17 Wallace, 294.
VOL. XX.

22

388

STOCKDALE V. INSURANCE

COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Strong, Davis, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

the rate was raised to five per cent., the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue issued a circular, dated July 1st, 1864, declaring that "a l l dividends payable on and after July 1st,
1864, no matter when declared, are subject to the duty of
five per centum." Much more, if dividend8 are not income
before they are payable, are they not income before they
are declared ? I repeat, then, the taxes in controversy now
were taxes upon the income of the shareholders for the year
1870. They were, therefore, not authorized by the statute.
The 119th section of the act, I think, put an end to all
taxes on income derived from any source after December
31st, 1869. Its language was, "the duties on incomes herein
imposed shall be levied on the first day of May, and be due
and payable on or before the 30th day of June in each year,
until and including the year 1870, and no longer." Construing this, as it must be construed, in connection with the
116th section, the matter is plain. That section declared
that the income duty provided for in the act should "be
assessed, collected, and paid upon the gains, profits, or income for the year ending the 31st day of December next
preceding the time for levying, collecting and paying said
duty." The tax authorized to be levied in May, 1870, and
the last authorized by the act of 1864, or any of its amendments, was a tax upon the income derived by the taxpayer
in 1869.
Returning, then, to the 119t.h section, it plainly limited
the duration of the tax upon income of every kind-all income upon which the act imposed a tax. It excepted none.
It did not speak of taxes on income, a return of which was
required to be made by the taxpayer, but its language was,
"the dulies herein imposed." The 119th section imposed no
tax. Its reference, therefore, must have been to taxes imposed by other sections of the act; to those imposed by the
116th sectiop, which were taxes on income from any source,
whether dividends of railroad companies, or banks, or insurance companies, or any other corporations not particularly
specified. It is true the lf19th section makes no particular
mention of taxes on that portion of income mentioned in the

Oct. 187&]

ST0"CKDALE V. INSURANCE

COMPANIES.

839

Opinion of Strong, Davis, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

120th, 122d, and 128d sections; but such mention would
have been superfluous. They were inchlded in the large
classificatian, "the duties herein imposed." The taxes upon
such dividends had been paid before the expiration of the
previous year; and the act guarded against double taxation
by authorizing a deduction from the required estimate, by
the assessor, of the income on which the tax had been paid.
Indeed, I think it impossible to escape from the codclusion that the 119th section was intended to enact that no tax
should be levied or collected upon any income which was
not received by the taxpayer or derived by him, or which
did not accrue to him on or before the last day of December,
1869. Any other construction would make the law offensively discriminating and grossly, unequal. I cannot believe
Congress intended that one who had lent his money to a
telegraph company, to a bridge company, or to a mining or
manuticturing company, or one who might receive dividends made by such companies, should be exempt from a
tax upon his interest and dividends received after December
81st, 1869, while one who had lent'to a canal, railroad, banking, insurance, savings fund, or trust company, or who derived dividends from them, should continue indefinitely to
pay an income tax on his interest and dividends. I cannot
believe it was intended to tax the salaries of officers of the
United States.afteir the expiration of the tax upon all other
salaries. I will not attribute such injustico to Congress. I
discover no intent to make such odious discriminations, and,
in my opinion, such an intent ought clearly to appear before
a court would be justified in giving the construction to the
act which ivorks such a result.
I need say no more upon this part of the case. If the tax
upon dividends; made by banking, trust, and insurance companieg the. tax upon railroad dividends, and upon salaries
of Federal officers was a tax upon income; if the tax mentioned in the 120th and 122d sections was a tax upon the
shareholder, or loanholder, and not upon the corporations;
if dividends declared in 1870 are not income of the shareholders in 1869; and if the llth section put an end to all

840

STOCKDALE V. INSURANCE COIPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Strong, Davis, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

income tax upon income not received by shareholders in
companies on or before December 31st, 1869, each of which
I have endeavored to show, the right disposition of the cases
before us is clear. The several companies who are defendants in error were not authorized to retain any tax out of
the dividends made to their shareholders in 1870. No such
tax had any legal existence, and the companies were under
no obligation to pay it. The judgments they have recovered
for the sums illegally exacted from them ought, therefore,
to be affirnied.
I do tiot overlook the later act of Congress, passed July
14th, 1870, to which a majority of my brethren attach some
impor-tance as bearing upon these cases. The 17th section
of that act enacted "that sections 120, 121, 122, and 123 of
the act of June 30th, 1864, entitled ' An act to provide internal" revenue to support the government, to pay interest on
the public debt, and tbr other purposes.' as amended by the
act of July 13th, 1866, and the act of March 2d, 1867, shall
be construed to impose the taxes therein mentioned to the
first day of August, 1870, but after that date no further taxes
shall be levied and assessed under that section." This was,
doubtless, intended as a legislative construction of the seetions of the act designated. I shall not turn aside to inquire
at length how fiar the law-making power can determine authoritatively the meaning of an existing statute. The constructiob, or interpretation, of a 'tatute would seem to be,
ordinarily, a judicial rather than a legislative function. I
know that acts declaratory of the meaning of former acts are
not uncommon. They are always to be regarded with respect, as expressive of legislative opinion, and, so fhr as they
can operate upon subsequent transactions, they are of binding force. But it is well settled they cannot operate to disturb rights vested or acquired before their enactment, or to
impose penarties for acts done before their passage, acts lawful when they were done. It is always presumed the legislature had no intention to give them such an effect.
Now, if the income tax imposed by the act of 1864 and its
supplements expired with the 31st of December, 1869; if

Oct. 1873.]

STOCEDALE V. INSURANCE COMPANIES.

Opinion of Strong, Davis, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

341
-

the act did not prescribe a tax upon dividends made after
that date, as I have endeavored to maintain, it was not the
duty of these defendants in error to pay to th' collector five
per cent. of the divideuds made by them in 1870, and they
had no authority to detain aty portion of such dividends
from their stockholhers. On the contrary, it was their duty
to pay over the entire dividends to the shareholders, who
acquired a vested right ili them as soou as they were made,
and culling upon them to pay a tax on those dividends was
ai attempt to euforce a duty that had 11o existence. It was
substantially an effort to enforce a peualty for an omission
to do that which they had no right to do, a penalty equal to
the amount of a five per cent. tax on the dividends, with an
additional five per cent. thereon. The companies, at most,
were merely agents of the government to collect a tax from
the shareholders and pay it over. Their liability, if ally,
arose out of an unlawful fitilure to discharge these duties.
But there was 11o such duty when the dividends were made.
Surely the declaratory act of 1870 cannot be regarded as
operatilg retrospectively to make the act, or omission, of
these companies unlawful, and punfishable as an offence,
whien tIle act, or omission, was innoceuit at the time when it
occurred. Were it co,-eded that tle coiistructiou given by
Coogres is binding il all cases where it would not disturb
vested righlt, or operate practically as an ex post facto law,
it call haNc no application to such a case as the present.
Of course, I am uot to be understood as maintaining that
wheni the declaratory act was passed Congress had no power
to impose a tax upon any income that had been -received
befbre that time. *XX:lat 1 niean to assert is that it cannot
be admitted (ongress intetided by the act of 1870 to subject
any institutioll to a pellaity for ,lot having, before its passage, collected and paid a tax vlich had not been imposed.
The act, therefore, ill my judgment, has no application to
the present eases, and I thljik the judgmeuts should be
affi rmed.

