20

HUMASTON

v.

TELEGRAPH COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

free and uninterrupted communication between Tennessee
and Missouri sinco the war closed, and the courts everywhere'accessible'for the prosecution of any cause of action.
Besides, in the very nature of things, the complainant must
have known soon after it occurred that an improved farm,
once occupied by him, was in the possession of adverse
claimants.' This was notice sufficient to put him on inquiry,
and this inquiry would have resulted in ascertaining all the
facts stated in the bill. There is no reason given for the delay, nor any facts and circumstances on which any shtisfactory excuse can be predicated.
Here, then, is the case of a party engaging in the rebellion
without provision for his debts, to which there was no defence, asking a court of equity, after the lapse of many
years without sufficient excuse for the delay, to interfere in
his behalf because his creditors adopted the wrong methods
for the enforcement of their claims against him. And this,
too, without any specific charge of fraud, except in the matter of the affidavits on which the proceedings were founded.
Such a charge, under the circumstances, is too weak and
unsatisfactory to relieve the complainant from the consequences of his own folly.
In any aspect of the case we think the demurrer was properly sustained, and the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill is therefore
AF~iRmED.

HUMASTON V. TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
1. Where a person, on a given contract, covenants to pay a sum whose
amount is to be contingent on certain events and is to be ascertained by
arbitrators, such person, if he prevent any arbitration, may be sued at
law on a quantum valobat, and the sum due may be ascertained by a jury
under instructions from the court. If the jury, under such instructions,
find that only so much is due, the plaintiff can recover nothing more.
2. A contract of a special nature explained and interpreted so as to sustain
a charge under which, in a case like that just stated, the jury found as

due much less than the plaintiff claimed.

Oct. 1873.]

HUMASTON

V. TELEGRAPH 'CO0HPANY.

21

Statement of the case.
3. Where a person in consideration of property (not mnoney) to be assigned
by another, agrees to give a certain nunber of shares of stock, having
on the day of the contract a fixed market. value, and, refusing to give
the stock, is sued at law for' a breach of the contract, evidence of the
value of the stock at any other time than at the date of the contract is
rightly excluded; its value at thtft date .being agreed on and admittd.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York; the case being thus:
Humaston having invented certain instruments for expeditiiig the transmission and reception of messages by telegraph; and especially for perforating paper for the purpose
of such messages, which inventions were patented, and having also, as he alleged, discovered a process by which paper
could be chemically prepared, so as to be sensitive to the
electric current, and by which its value would be greatly
enhanced (a process which 'he kept secret), entered in April.'
1861, along with one Lefferts, who had some interest in the
matter with him, into anagreement, as- follows, with the
American Telegraph Company, a company already estab.
lished in the business of telegraphing:

"The American Telegraph. Company agree to .buy, and Humaston agrees to sell a full, perfect, and unincumbered title to
all his inventions for all electric telegraph machines and processes, and particularly the patented invention for perforating
paper for the purpose of telegraphic messages, and the adaptation and manner of using such perforated paper in the transmission of such messages, including whatever is patented by
Rumaston in the transmission of messages by telegraph, -and
also including the secret process of preparing the chemical
paper, with the right to procure letters-patent therefor.
"The said Humaston and Lefferts agree not to engage, directly or indirectly, in telegraphing during the period of ten
years, in competition with the American Telegraph Company,
nor in any way aid, countenance, or. encourage any telegraph
line doing business in tny of the States bordering upon the Atlantic'Ocean or Gulf of Mexico, &c., so as to in any way injuriously affect the business or interests of the American Telegraph
Company.
"The consideration to be paid by the company for the said

22

HUMASTON

v.

TELEGRAPH COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
inventions and patents, and agreement against competition, is
one dollar. and at least 50 shares of the capital stock of the
American Telegraph Company. Upon the execution and delivery by said Humaston of conveyances of the aforesaid inventions and patents, conveying a full, unincumbered, and perfect
title to the whole thereof, the said American Telegraph Company are to issue to the said Humaston 100 shares of the stock
of said company, and a further considerationof not exceeding 400
shares of the capital stock of said company is to bepaid or issued
to the said Humaston upoh the following stipulations and conditions: Three disinterested referees or arbiters are to d~cide
how much (if any) more is to be issued to the said Humaston after
such arbiters shall be satisfied as to the capability and value of said
patented inventions; the said referees or arbiters to be mutually
selected.
"It being understood that the aforesaid maximum amount of
stock consideration is stated under a claim by the said Humaston and Lefferts thathis patented inventions will enable the
said company to do by the Humaston system, and on one wire,
five times as much business, regularly and accurately, as can be
done now on one wire, in the same time, by any system now
used by said company, it being also understood that compensation is not to be allowed to Humaston for what is now public,
but only for what their patented improvements in telegfaphy
are worth more than any other of said systems.
',.The arbiters or referees are also, in estimatiiig the value of
said patented inventions, to consider the comparative reliability,
"accuiacy, rapidity, cost, and, also the expense of working and using
said inventions with those now in use. To enable the said Humaston and Lefferts to prove the capacity and value of the said inventions, full, fair, and sufficient trials are to be allowed to
them, and made in such manner, and as often, and for such
period of time, as the referees may determine, and the final decision is to be given before the expiration of one year from the
date hereof. Each party are to have the right to suggest to
tihe-refereesnuch experiments bfor the testing of such inventions
as to them may seem proper. The referees to have full opportunity of investigating and deciding in the matter. It is also
understood and agreed that the company are to have reasonable
opportunity to examine into the validity and patentability of
the patented inventions, and place any questions which may

Oct. 1873.]

HUMASTON v. TELEQRAPH COMPANY.

28'

Statement of the case.

arise thereon before the referees for their deision. But the
referees are hereby instructed that under the foregoing paragraph the company ari to require only a reasonable'amount of
evidence as to the validity of the Humaston inventions; and
further agreed that, should the referees decide that the.inven,
tion is wholly invalid, and not. patentable, then the eompany"
will surrender up and transfer'to.Humastoh, by a,goo'd and sufficient assignment, the title to the said patents on the retransfer
,of 5.0 shares of'stock of the company. Upon the award or-decision of said referees, or a majority thereof, being made. in
writing and delivered to said company, said company are'to pay
or issue to said Humaston the additional amount, if any, of stock
(not exceeding 400 shares), determined or stated in such award."
Humaston made the requisite traiTsfers, and the matter
meant to be submitted was referred to the arbitrators.' They
acceptedtheir office and entered upon the discharge of their
duty, but the telegraph company withdrew its submission. Humaston now brought special assumpsit against the company,
claiming not only the 100 shares of stock which he actually
r~ceived in 1861 (and then worth $100 -a share, or $10,000,
the
and which in 1866 was worth $18,000) but claimingalso
position was that by
value of the other 400 shares. His
the terms of the contract, he was entitled to the 4'00 shares
unless the arbitrators named a smaller compensation, aid
that as the company had withdrawn its submission, and so
prevent ed the arbitrators from naming any .such smaller
compensation, he was entitled to the whole 400 shares.
At the trial, th&hnstruments.invented by-Humaston were
submitted to thejury and explained, and experts, mechanics,
and telegraphers examined :uponi them for several days.
After the plaintiff had established'what was perhaps a
primifaeie case, his counsel, for the p'frposeof furnishing a
rule for estimating his damages, offered to show that the
market value of the stock of the American Telegraph Com

pany on the 12th day of June, 1866, on which day the corupany.had been -consolidated with the Western Union Telegraph Company, was $150. The court excluded the evidence
for'the purpose for whlvh it was offered, but admitted it as

24

HUMASTON v. TELEGRAPH COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

a fact which the jury might consider in estimating the value
of the property sold. Subsequently the parties agreed that
the rharkeft value of the stock of the company on the 1st
day of Ap'il, 1861, was $100 per share, and made their
agreement known to the court. Thereupon the court held
that the evidence as to the value of the stocjk on the 12th of
June, 1866, and at subsequent dates, which had been admitted, was immaterial; and under the' laintiff's exception
struck it out and excluded it.
Some of the defendant's evidence tended to show that the
plaintiff's invention had no value and had never been used.
The court chargedThat the plaintiff was not entitled, as matter of law, to
recover of the defendants the value of the remaining 400
shares:
Also that the plaintiff dcia not, as matter of law, become
entitled to the said 400 shares of stock by reason of the defendants' revocation of the powers of the referees or other
breach of contract alleged, but that the plaintiff was entitled,
in consequence of the revocation, to bring an action and to
recover the excess (if any there was) which the valde of
what he sold, assigned, and transferred to the defendants
(enhanced by tne agreement of the plaintiff and Lefferts not
to ,enter into competition with the defendants) had when sold
and delivered, over the amount which he had already received (and that this the parties agreed was 100 shares, of
the aggregate value of $10,000), with interest on such excess
from the 13th of February, 1867; but if in their judgment
there-was no such excess, thefi that their verdict should be
for the ilefendant.
To these instructions the counsel for the plaintiff excepted.
The jury found for the plaintiff, and assessed his damages
at $7500.
The exclusion of the evidence and the charge of the court
were the matters now assigned for error.
Messrs. Truman Smith qnd epth.as Brainard,for the plaintiff
in error, argued the case much. at length, and showed, as

Oct. 1873.

HMASTON V. TELEGRAPH COMPANY.

25

Opinion of the court.

they conceived, that it was well' established both in England
and this country-, that a stipulation in a conti-aet for a reference of any matter of difference likely or certain to arise
thereunder, might be connected with the principal undertaking in such' a manner as to make it a condition, and that
as such it might essentially qualify or affect the rights of
one party, or the obligations of the other; ,that' if it were,
a condition precedent and 'was not performed, the obligation would be null; and if it were a condition subseqient,
and not performed (which the counsel'alleged was the case
here), then that the condition became null and the obligation
absolute. If the party bound by a condition precedent did
not submit, or offer to submit, or having submitted, revoked,
his right of action was gone; and if a party bound by a condition subsequent 'efused to submit, or having submitted,
revoked, then- the qualification of his liability was gone, and
that liability became absolute.
The learned counsel referred to twenty-nine differen.t cases,
English and American-, beginning with Vynior's Case,' re'ported by Sir Edward Coke,.* which sustained, as-they conceived, their views.
Messrs. J. . Porterand G. -. Lowry, contra, citing Cbwper
v. Andrews,t and the opinion f Hobart, C.J., therein; Brbwer
v. Hill,$ and other cases.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
Whether or not-the court erred in its 'charge, and in the
exclusion of the evidence excluded, depends on the prbper
.interpretation of the contract and the rule of damages which
shall be applied'in this Action to the breach of it.
It is insisted by the plaintiff that the defendant promised
to pay him for his invention four huildred shares in addition'
to the one hundred shares paid on'the delivery of the title,
unless the arbitrators should relieve the coinpany b5y fixing
some less amount, and a great deal of learnidg touching the
I*

-8 Rdports-181t.

t'-Hobart, 40.

2 Anistruther, 418.

HUMASTON V. TELEGRAPH COMPANY.

[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

doctrine of conditions subsequent and precedent has been
invoked in support of this position. But this doctrine has
no application here, for, manifestly, this is not an undertaking to which a condition subsequent could be attached. It
is easy to determine why this contract was njiade, the nature
of it, and the acts to be performed by the contracting parties. The American Telegraph Company were engaged in
carrying on the telegraph business in some portions of the
country., and- naturally desirous of appropriating to itself any
new invention v&hich would facilitate the transmission of
telegraphic messages. Humaston claimed that his system
just patented would do five times as much business on one
wire as the ordinary systems then in pse. If it could do this
with equal accuracy and reliability and at ,no greater cost,
the value of it could be hardly overestimated, but there had
been no experiments to test the question of whether or not
it was capable of doing these things. It might do the woik
claimed for it and yet be so unreliable, or the expense of
working and using it so much greater than the expense of
working and using the inventions then open to the public or
used by the company, that its purchase would be dear at any
price. Thecompany, desirous of possessing everything new
and useful in the line of their business, were willing to risk
something'iII the acquisition of these inventions,-but unwilling to pay the estimate of value which Humaston put upon
them without trial of their utility. This estimate was
$650,000, as the proof on the trial was that the stock of the
company stood at par in the market at the date of the contract. The company. said to Humaston , We will take your
patents, whether valid or not) itud pay you $5000 for, them
if you and Lefferts stipulate not to compete with us for a
period of ten-years, and if they are valid, whether useful or
ndt, the compensation shall be increased to $10,000. But
we cannot promise additional compensation unless, after
proper experiment, yoursystem shall be proved to be worth
more. It may be that your claim of rapid performance can
be sustained, and yet the system, owing to its greater cost
than those now in use, or some other controlling practical

Oct. 1873.]

HUMASTON v. TELEGRAPH COMPANY.

27

Opinion of the court.

consideration, be of comparatively little value to us. This
can only be determined, after trial, by'some impartial tribunal. We are willing that this tribimal shall be referees
mutually selected, to whom shall be submitted the question
of whether we shall pay anything more than the $10,000
already paid, after the merits of your system have been
tested by them and its capability and value established.
They may reach the conclusion that you are sufficiently
compensated already, and if they do, their award must be
accepted as a final settlement of the matters of difference
between us. If they reach a contrary conclusion they must
fix the amount of consideration which we are to pay in addition to what you have already received; but this must be
within the limit of four.hundred shares of stock equivalent
to $40,000.
This is a fair analysis of the provisions of the contract
and of the considerations on' which it was, based. Instead
of it binding the company. to pay four hundred shares, unless
a less number was fixed by the arbitrators, it left them to
say whether Humaston was entitled to any more than he
had already got, and if so, how niuch. There was no concession by the company that the inventions were worth any
more to it than the hundred shares. It might turn out on
the trial that the price already paid 'vas excessive, or, on the
contrary, that it was not sufficiently remunerative. This
point of value the triers were to determine, and if determined favorably to the plaintiff he would have a cause of
action against the defendant. ,Until this determination, if
there had been no interruption to the arbitration, no cause
of action could. arise. It was a reasonable provision that
the value of these inventions should be submitted to the arbitration of practical business men, and if Humaston, instead
of the company, had refused to proceed with the arbitration
he could not resort to an action, for the defendant would
not have been in default, and, therefore, not liable to suit.*
But the defendant broke the agreement and revoked the
Delaware and Hudson Canal Co. v.The Pennsylvania Coal Co., 60 New
York,'250.

28

HUMASTON v. TELEGRAPH CO,IPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

submission, and HIumaston asks that in consequence of this
w'ron'gft1 action of the defendant his rights may be determined by the court and jury, instead of by arbitration.
It becomes, therefore, important to determine what is the
measure of liability for the breach of contract by the defendant If we are correct in our interpretation of the contract, this action cannot be supported as an action seeking
damages for breach of contract to deliver stock, for there
was no engagement to deliver any, except on a condition
which has not happened, and there is no proof that the arbitrators would have found that Humaston was entitled to
receive more stock than he had already obtained.
The action can be supported for the value of the property,
and this was the proper subject of inquiry at the trial. The
company covenanted to pay this value, to be ascertained in
a particular mode, and as they have prevented this mdde
being adopted, they cannot take advantage of their own
wrong and deprive the plaintiff of the opportunity of showing to the bourt and jury what it is. In lieu of the award
of the arbitrators the verdict of the jury can be asked by
the plaintiff to determine it. The ascertainment of this
value was the essence of the contract, the thing on which
the submission was based, and the revocation of the submission leaves the jury to settle it. Benjamin, in his Treatise on Sales,* says, if the performance of the condition for
a valuation.be rendered impossibl'e by the act of the vendee
the price of the thing sold must be fixed by the jury on a
quantum valebat, as in Clarke v. Westrope,t where the outgoing tenant sold the straw on a farm to the incomer, at a
valuation to be made by two indifferent persons, but, pending the valuation, the buyer consumed the straw. And thedoctrine of the text is sustained by adjudged cases in this
country and Englaud.1
t 18 Common Bench, 765.
.Firstedition, page 430.
: Inchbald v. The Western, &c., Plantation Co. (head note), 112 English
Common Law (17 Common Bench, New Series), 733; Hall v. Conder, 89
Id. (2 Common Bench, New Series), 53; United States v. Wilkins, 6 Wheaton, 135, 143; Kenniston v. Ham, 9 Foster (N. H.), 506; Holliday V. Miarshall, 7 Johnson, 213; Cowper v. Andreivs, Hobart, 40-43.

Oct. 1873.]

IHUMASTON V. TELEGRAPH COMPANY.

29

Opinion of the court.

Nothing is, therefore, due o1n this contract, unless the
court and juiS',, sitting in the place of the Arbitrators, shall
decide that the plintifi is entitled to recover for the sale
of his inventions more thanlhe has already received. The
case was tried on this theory, and the court charged the
jury that the value of a specified amount of stock was not
the legal measure of the plaintiff's damages, but that he
was entitled to recover the excess.(if any there was) which
the value of what he sold and transferred to the company,
enhanced by the agreement of the plaintiff and Lefferts n6t
to enter into. competition with the company, as stipulated in
the contract, had, when sold and delivered, over the amount
which he had already received; and this the parties agreed
was one hundred shares of' the defendant's stock, of the
aggregate value of $10,000; with interest on such excess
from the date of the revocation of the powers of the arbiters. This charge is in confQrmity with the views we have
expressed of the obligations of this contract, and of the rule
of damages applicable to the breach of it.
It is urged, however , that the court erred in excluding
testim ony of thid value of the defendant's stock both when
*they sold out- to the Western Union Company, and when
the revocation occurred.
It is not perceived how the sale to .the Western Union
Company changed the rights of the parties, for there- is
nothing to'show that it hindered the defendants from acquirinlg in the market at any time a sufficient n.fmber of shares
of its stock to comply with th award which it-was expected
the arbitrators would be suffered to make long after this
sale took place.
If there had been an agreement to deliver a certain quantity of stock, and an action had been brought for the conversion of it, on the ground that the defendant by the sale
to another company had put it out of its power to comply
with the terms of its agreement, evidence of the value of
the stock at the time the sale occurred would be competent.
And so would evidence of its value at the date of the revo-

HUMASTON V.

TELEGRAPH

COMPANY.

[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cation, if the plaintiff was in a position to support an action
for damages for breach of contract to deliver stock. But as
he is limited in his recovery to the value of his inventions
wheni sold and delivered, evidence of the value of shares of
stock at all is only proper as tending to show the estimate
put upon the property by the parties at the time they made
their bargain. And as the value of the stock in 1861, when
the contract was concluded, was directly shown, its value at
any other time became unimportant, The Circuit Court
proceeded on the theory, and we think correctly, that the
defendant intended to .give for and considered the plaintiff's
property worth (if it performed certain conditions) the cash
equivalent of five hundred shares of stock. This was $50,000,
which the plaintiff must also have adopted as his estimate
of the value of the property when he sold it, as he offered
evidence tending to show that it was worth that sum, and
claimed that the evideiiee proved the fact. The conflict of
testimony on the worth of the Humaston inventions was
very great, for the defendant also introduced evidence tending to prove, and claimed it was' proved, that these inventions were of no value, or if any, no more than ihe amount
already paid for them.
In this condition of the evidence it was a difficult matter
for the jury to settle the issue submitted to them, but as
they were able to do it with the aid of the court and eminent counsel, after a lengthy trial, by finding a considerable
verdict for the plaintiff, it would seem that he ought to be
satisfied with it.
At any rate there is no error in the record, and the judgment must be
AFFIRMED.

