72

NATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTON V. TEXAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

simply to protect the vendors, and if wj except the three
years before considered in its qelation to California, its restraining effect extended no farther than was necessary for
their protection.
We are unable, therefore, to see anything in the contract,
so far as i is now in question, which militates against public
policy.
There are no other points adverted to which demand the
serious consideration, of the court.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the case remanded to be pro-

ceeded in
ACCORDING TO LAW.

Dissenting, Justices CLIFFORD, SWAYNE, and DAVIS.

NATIONAL BANK OF WASHIGTON

V.

TEXAS.

1. A note payable to bearer, though overdue and dislonored, passes by delivery the !egal title to the holder, subject to such equities as may be
asserted by reason of its dishonor.
2. Any one disputing the title of the holder of such paper takes the burden
of establishing, by sufficient evidence, the facts necessary to defeat it.
3. There is no competent evidence in this chancery suit that the bonds in,
controversy; which were issued by the United States to the State of
Texas, though overdue when they passed from the treasury of the State,
were issued by the State or received by the person to whom they were
delivered for any treasonable or other unlawful purpose.
4. The absence of the indorsement of the governor of the State on the bonds
does not raise a presumption of such unlawful purpose under the circumstances of this case.
5. The cases of Texas v. While and C/diles (7 Wallace, 718), Same v.-Hardenberg (10 Id. 68), and Same v. Huntington (16 Id. 402), considered, and
their true result ascertained and applied to the present case.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the Distridt of Columbia; the case being thus:
The United States, on the 1st of January, 1851, issued to
the State of Texas for the sale of a portion of her north-

Oct. 1873.1

NAIoNAL

BANK

OF

WASHINGT:ON v. TEXAsI. 73

Statenent of the case.

western territory, five thousand coupon bonds of $1000 each,
numbered successively from M'o. 1 to No. 5000, and "r'edeem able after the 31st day of December, 1864." They were
made on their face all payable "to bearer," and declared to
be transferable on delivery. The coupons, which e~tended
to December 81st, 1864, ri¥d no farther', were equally payable "to bearer." These bonds were known as Texas indeninity bonds.
On the 16th of December, 1851, in anticipation of the
bonds being delivered to it,the State.of Texa passed'an act
authorizing their governor to receive them from the United
States,
"And when received, to .deposit them in the treasury of the
State of Texas, to be disposed of. as may be provided by law; provided, that no bond issued as aforesaid; as a portion of the said
$.5,000,000 of stock, payablc to bearer, shall be available in the
bands of any holders until the same shall have been indorsed in 'the
city of Austin, by the governor of the State of Texas."
After this act of December 16th, 1851, and between that
day and the 11th of February, 1860, the Statie of.Texas
passed thirteen differentacts, providing for the sale or disposal of 'the whole $5,000,000 of these bonds; for 'lawful
State purposes; as ex gr., paying the public debt of the
State; the erection of a State capitol; to establish a system
of schools, &6., &c, the iconstruction 'of railroads: the terms
of none of these acts requiring an indorsement of the bonds,
by the governoroas required in the above-quoted act of December 16th, 1851, nor any of them d'esignating by'numbers-on them the particular bonds.-to be appropriated to the'
particular objects authorized. Subseqftenly to this again,
the rebellion having broke6 out, and the State having g6ne
over to the rebel side, and there being.a -large nifmber of.
the bonds still undisposed of in the Slate treasury, the
legislature of Texas, by an act of January 11th, 1862, repealed the act of December 16th, 1851 .(making an indorsement necessary), and the theu authovities of Texas, through
its " military board," in January, 1865, sold or traiisferred,
as was said, and"as in former cases in this court was sup-

74

IATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTON V. TEXAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

posed to be shown, certain of the bonds, but not all of them,
to two persons, White and Chiles,for the purpose of aiding the
rebellion. In those cases-the cases, namely, of Texas v. While
and Chiles.* and Texas V., Hardenberg,t-it was determined
that as against the true, that is to say, the loyal State of Texas
(particular citizens of which had stopped payment of them
at the Federal treasury), no title had passed to bonds which
had been thus. transferred; and that notwithstanding" the
transfer, the reconstructed State might reclaim the bonds or
their proceeds.
H-1ow many bonds were transferred to White and Chiles,
or what were their exact numbers, was not well ascertained;
but, as already said, it was well known that the bonds transferred to White and Chiles did iibt comprise the whole issue
for $5,000,000,a.nd that a considerableinmbler of them had
been transferred under' one or other of the thirteen enactments already mentioned.t In particular, it appeared that
one bundreds-and forty-eight of them (numbered from 4694
to 4842 inclusively) had been transferred, in pursuance of a
statute, to the Southern Pacific .Railroad Company; 'some
of which the company paid out to contractors for work done
on the road. These bonds were not indorsed by the governor.
In this state of things the State of Texas brought her
complaint in chancery in the court below against the First
National Bank of Washington,W. S. Huntington-its cashier,
and others, for discovery and relief in regard to certain of
these Texas indemnity bonds, of whiqh the bill alleged that
the State had been dispossessed by fraud or treasonable,
pra~tices. The number now claimed was nineteen; thus
numbered:
"Numbers 4226, 4227, 4229, 4703, 4705, 4706, 4748, 4813, 4825,
4843, 4844, 4912, 4927, 4928, 4929, 496.0, 4961, 4962, 4963."
7 Wallace, 700, where the histor'y of the bonds is gi'ven in full.
- 10 Id. 68.
See Report ot Mr. Comptroller Taylor, submitted to Mr. Secretary
McCulloch, August 15tji, 1865.

Oct. 1873.]

NATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTON v.

'TExAs.

75

Statement of: the case.

The bill alleged that these indemnity bonds were each for
the sum of $1000, dated January 1st, 1851, redeemable after
December 31st, 1864, and that those' in controversy were received and remained in the treasury of the State of Texas
until after the period fixed for redemption. It was alleged
that in the year 1865 the iiisurrectionary power Which had
usurped control of the State, made a contract with White
and Ohiles by which f'om one hundred and forty-five to one
hundred and sixty-two of th bonds were delivered to them,
in consideration of which they agreed to furnish means to
carry on the war against the United States in which that
State was then engaged, with others, under the name of the
Confederate States of America.
It was further alleged that these bonds,. then overdue,
afterwards came to the hands of the defendants, who purchased them with full notice of 'the purpose for-which they
had been delivered to White and Ohiles.
It was also alleged that said bonds were never indorsed
by the governor of the State of Texas in such manner as by,
the law of Texas was required, by reason of which no'legal
title to the same passed fr(m the State, or was vested in the
parties to whom they were delivered. The defendants were
required to answer under oath, and a decree against them
in regard to the bonds left with Taylor, or for other relief,
was prayed.
The 'bank lnd Huntington answered and admitted the"
purchase of some 'of the Texas indemnity bonds, and having
others as agents for the owners of them." They gave a list
of all these, specifying those h'led in their own right and those
held as agents. They averred that the bonds had all been
,paid to them in fall by the Treasury of the United'States,
before this suit was commenced, and that those owned by
themselves were purchased for value (namely, ninety-eight
cents to the dollar), without'notice of any of the matters'set
up in the complainant's bill.
They denied all knowledge on their part, that the bonds
claimed by them were part of the bonds issued to Chiles
and White, or had been issued in aid of the rebellion; and

76

NAIONAL-BANR

OF WASH1INGTON V. TEXAS. '[Sup. Ct.
Statement of the case.

they denied also the facts that they were so issued. And
they, dnied the statements of the billin these matters. A
general replication was filed and testimony taken.
To make out its case, the State of Texas adduced the testimony of Mr. R. W. TIa lor, the Comptroller of the Treasury of the United' States, and'of Ur. G. NV. Paschall, one
of the httorneys for the complainant. Mr. Taylor's deposition was 'alon'g one. What follow's are extracts which bear
'principally oh the case. He is under examination by the
"complainant's counsel'.
"Questionm I see'it stated that these bonds came through the
hands of J."P. White. Do your investigations enable you to
say they Welre pairt of the bonds reeived by White and Chiles?
"Answer. I do not know anything more about-that than what
is to be gathered from the general appearanceof the transaction.
There was n6th'ing at that' time known hcre about the White
and Chiles purchase; at least I had heard nothing of it.
" Question. But from this general appearance of which you
speak, what is your opinion as to their having been part of the
same bonds?
"Answer. From all the circumstances, my opinion is, those were
of the White a'nd Chiles bonds. That is only "anopinion,however."
CROS-EXAMINED.

"Question. Do you know of your own knowledge that White
and Chiles, or either of them, ever saw one of these bonds?
"Answer. I kne'w it only from the papers, on fife in the department, that is, from my opinion of: what those papers show.
" Questio., It would be u very tedious process (and I presum
you could pot do it) to furnish the v arious -papers from which
you make up your opinion ?
"Answer. They are too numerous for me to present now, and
I might-add, that one would have to study them very carefully
and make his calculations as to the different bonds.
" Question. Would yo not have to do so by ascertaining the
entime number of bonds, and then tracing those bonds into the
hands of persons other than White and Chiles; would not your
opinioti be based upon the conclusion that, inasmuch as so many
bonds were in the hands of otherpeople, it followed, as a neces-

Oct. 1873.]

ITATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTOr

v.

TEXAs.

77

Statement of the case.
sary result; that if White and Ohiles had any, they must be
those ?
"Answer. It would-be by taking the seven hundred and eightytwo bonds .tha were not 'indorsed, and tracing them back, by

the eiidcnco: into the hands of those parties who held them at
different times, and ascertaining in some instances, the partieular numbers that were known to be in tte hbands of pairticular
parties be'ford the'transaction between White and Chiles and
the military board, andtaking others dgaiih, that came from the',
State of Texas, and then drawing my conclusions is to what
were White and Chiles bonds."
Mr. Paschall said in reply't6,qutsticns in chief and on
cross-examination:
'"I 'Was employed by Governor Pease to prosecute this suit,

ind caused it to'be institutea in 1868; and judging from a careful examinatibn made in Texas and in the Treasury Department
here, I'feel confident that the bonds redeemed for the bank, described by Xr. Taylor, were part of the bonds which passed
thbrbugh the hands of White and Chiles. I judge this from circumstances which he has stated..
,. I did satisfadtorily to myself,
identify those paid to huntington, &c.,-'ecause I 'found' an affidavit ol' a bh'otherof White attached to them, and was thus able
to trace them as having come.through White. I inferred so
from'the fact that they passed through the hands of White's
brother, and through the harids of a NashviJle man named
Douglss..' I thought'I saw clearly that they appertaified to that
class, and, from.those numbers, knowing,.that the authorities of
Texas had taken off the bonds, consecutively, from No. 1 of the
722. I knew about where these numbers would begin, butIwas
at a loss 'about the precise numbers; because. I wanted to describe
theni in Te.'eas, 'andI could not certainly identify them."
Such, ip the main, was the bom plainant's case. ' A6 this
court held'that it was .in itself insufficient, the evidence by
the other side is but advertgc to. That evidence tended to
show fhat 'in the case 0f 'all th -bonds the cashier of the
bank 'had gone, prior to purli.ing them, to the Treasury
of the United States, and'had made full inquiry about them,
that the Comptroller of '(he. Treasury had advised that bon'&

fide holders of such bonds hbuld be paid; that many such

78,

INATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTON

v.

TEXAS.

[Sp. Ct.

Argument for the bank.

londs were paid, and that the purchas6s here were made in
view of this action; that of the nineteen bonds now in question, fifteen or sixteen had been bought in December, 1865,
and in August and September, 1866, from Jay Cooke & Co.,
and three from Simon Wolf, of New York, acting as agent
for various residents there; that of the fifteen or sixteen
bought from Jay Cooke & Co., at least six were of the number
transferred to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company ;* that
four had never been delivered to the military board ;t"that
leaving the remaining to rest on the fact (among other facts)
that they came from Jay Cooke & Co., who were not shown
to have ever stood in relations of any sort with Chiles and
White.
The court below decreed in favor of the complainant as
to the nineteen bonds, and the defendants took this appeal.

Messrs. B. 1. Itoar-andJ. Rtubley Ashton, for the appeliants,
contended that on the complainaait's own case, as proved,
the bill ought to have been dismissed; that the testimony of
Taylor, and Pdschall fell within the case of Carter v. Boehm,t
in which Lord Mansfield said of such testit nony: "It is mere
opinion, which is ncit evidence;" that all the allegations of the
bill were denied by answers respotisive to it; and was not sustained by any evidence bveicoming-the denials; thatHuntifgton v.. Texas§ had decided that the State must prove not only
"unlawful issue and use, but also thefurtherfact of notice to the
defendant;, that though express notice was here averred,
none was proved; thit the doctrine of constructive notice,
applicable to dishonored private mercantile paper, payable
to order on a day certain, could not be applied to public
securities like these, uhder the circumstances attending
them, when purchased in the open market after the day had
-passed when, by their tenor, they -were redeemable; that
they'were-.iss'ued as stock, not payable- to bearer on any
certain day, but "redeemable after the 81st day of December,
4703, 4705, 4706, 4748, 4813,'4825.
8 Burrow, 1905.

*,Nos.

t Nos. 4960, 4961, 4962, 4963.
j 16 Wallace, 412.

Oct. 1873.]

NATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTON v.

TE'AS.

79

Argument for the State of Texas.

,1864;" that they stated that interest would be paid for four-teen years, but that after December, 1864, the bonds might
be redeemed at tie pleas-ureof the United States; that the
bonds were -not dishonored.; that dishonor and non-payment
at maturity, in the case of private mercantile paperl, wege
not necessarily the same fhing; that a nQte on demand was
mature' and demandable at once, but was not dishonored
until after such a lapsb of time that the law considered the
paper ought to have been paid, and that every one was
.bound to supp6se'that payment-must haye been demanded
and rdfused within that tinme;"that Mr. Attorney-General
Black had held, after full consideration, that the reason of
the rule which mak6s ordinary bills and nbtes, .when transferred after maturity, subject to prior equities, did not apply
to treasury.notes of the United' States,. redeemable after one
year from their date, and that a.purchaser for value of such
a note, after maturity, was entitled td the sarie protection.as
the bond flle holder of ordiiary commercial paper takeui before maturity.*
The counsel contended further,.that it was .clear enough.,
viewiug dfie bonds specifically, that these particillar bonds
had not been the bouds of White and Ohiles;- ten of them
assuredly had not been so, -and the presumptions were that
the others had-not been.
That even if it were, clear thatthey all had passed under.
the White and Ohiles transacti.ojjithat th6 State ought-not.
to recover; that this. court was re.viewifig the decree below
in its capacity as a court of equity,; that the pi'operty had
been acquired honestly and in good faith for a.full consideration, without knowledge or notice of that transaction,
and after due ana fulf inquiry instituted At the Treasury' Department, whose duty it was, as this court-has said, to ascertain and decide whether the bonds had or had not been
issued in aid of the rebellion.
-

Messrs. B. 7 Merricc and T'.. Duranthavingreferred to
the case of Texas v. White and Chiles, t6 show the history of
* 9 Opinions of the Attorneys-General, 413; hnd see 11 Id. 332.

80

NATI6NAL BANK OF WASHINGTON V. TEXAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for th State of Texas.

the Texas indemnity bonds, and referred to the testimony
of Messrs. Taylor and Paschal as that of persons intimately
acquainted with the history of the bonds now specifically
involved, submittedThat upon the state of facts shown, the absence
of the indorsement of the governor raised a presumption against the
validity of the alienation of the bonds; and that the cause
of justice would best be subserved by giving effect to this
presumption, and requi'ing the holder of a bond not indorsed to prove that it had been issued by the State for some
lawful and proper purpose.
That. cir~dimstances having been proved establishing illegality in the originar transfer of the bonds, the burden-of
showing that value was given fo' them before mata i y was
cast upon the holder; and if it appeared that he took them
after they became due, he would be regarded as having
takenthem subject to all the rights and equities of the State,
and could not protect a defective' title by any rule of cominercial law.*
That the questions involved in this case were all decided
in Texas v. While and Chiles; that'they again ca'me before the
court in the case of Texas v. Hardenberg,in which the court,
referring to the opinion in the cas6 of White and Ciiles, says:
"This conclusion leaves but one question for copsideration,
namely, whether Hardenberg at the' time he purchased the
bonds had notice of the equity of the State of Texas. This qdestion was not'concluded by the decree, but it was fully considered
by,!he court upon the for'mer'argument, and.our conclusion, as
stated in the opinion, as then delivered, was that Hardenberg, as
well as the other purchasers of indemnity bonds about the same
time, was'affebted by such notice. We will not restate what we
then said; it is only necessary to say, that we have reconsidered the groundsof tha't.decision and.are still -satisfied with it."
That the expressions in the opinion delivered in While and
4 Smith v. Sac County, 11 Wallace, 146;. Lardner v. M'urray, 2 Id. 121;
Andrews v. Pond, 13 Peters, 65; Swift v. Tyson, 16 Id. 1; Goodman v. Siinonds, 20 Howard, 865.

Oct. 1873.]

NATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTON V. TEXAS.

81

Opinion of the court.

Chiles, and referred to in the albove extract, would be found
on page 732 of 7th Wallace, and were as follows:
"We think it clear, if a State, by a public act of her legislaturo, imposes restrictions upon the alienation of her property,
that every person who takes a transfer of such property must
be held affected by notice of them. Alienation, in disregard
of such restrictions, can convey no title to the alienee."
The learned counsel, referring to the opinion of the court
in the subsequent case of Huntington v. Texas, as qualifying
and explaining the fundamental principles announced in the
preceding cases, and regulating their application, submitted
that it did not in any way annul the fundamental principles
declared in those previous cases, but, on the contrary, reaffirmed them.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Waiving for the present the question whether the bonds
were overdue in the sense which puts a purchaser of dishonored negotiable paper on the inquiry as to defences
which may be set up against it, it is quite clear that they
were transferable by delivery after due the same as before.
To invalidate the title so acquired by a purchaser, it is necessary to make out some defect in that title.
The main allegation of the bill is that these are part of
the bondsissued to White and Chiles, in aid of the rebellion,
All knowledge of this fact is denied by defendants, and the
fact itself is denied. Conceding that their denial of"the
fact, about which perhaps they know nothing had no other
effect than to put in issue the allegation of plaintiff's bill on
that subject, it remained for plaintiff to establish its truth
by evidence.
This it attempted to do. Two witnesses alone are relied
on for this purpose, namely, Taylor, the Comptroller of the
Treasury of the United States, and Paschal, one of the attorneys for complainants. The form.er was examined at
much length, and gave it as his opinion, from certain calculations made by him, based upon papers in his office and
VOL. XX.

6

,

82

NATI')NAL BANK OF WASHINGTON V. TEXAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of tho court.

information received by him from officers of the State, of
Texas, and other sources, that these bonds were of the
White and Chiles'issue. He says that it is only an opinion,
and it is evident from his deposition that the data. on which
he bases that opinion are far from conclusive. It is not
.'worth while to waste words in proving that such testimony is
wholly incompetent to establish any fact, or rather to show
that it is not evidence at all.
The deposition of Paschal is to the effect tat by reason
of his connection with the suit of Texas v. White arid Chiles,
he had become familiar with a number of facts from which
he had satisfied himself t}.at these bonds were of the White
and Chiles lot. As the matters on which this conclusion
was founded were, all of them statemient6 of others, some
verbal, some written, and all of them capable of being
proved, no reason is perceived why the witness should be
substituted for the court in weighing these facts, and making
the proper inferetices. The same observation applies with
,equal force to Taylor's testimony.
Not only is there no evidhnce that these bonds were irregularly or improperly issued, or were issued for any treasonable or other unlawful purpose, but there is evidence that
there were at the time these depositions were taken, bonds
greatly exceeding in amount those in controversy, issued
lawfully to a railroad company, which were not identified
by their liumbers, or in any other manner, so as to prove
-that the bonds in controversy were not these bonds. Nor
was there any evidence tracing all the bonds lawfully issued
so as to show where these were or to repel the presumption
that they were of that class. In short, the testimony on
this branch of the subject is an absolute failure.
said that as these bonds did not bear the indorseBut it -is
ment of -thegovernor of the State of Texas, this fact alone
was sufficient to prove that they were unlawfully obtained
from its treasury, and that the rights of the State should
therefore be protected in this suit.
the cases of Texas v. White
The opinions -of this court in.

Oct. 1873.]

NATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTON V. TEXAS.

83

Opinion of the court.

and Clhies,* and Same v.Hardenb~'rq,tare much relied on in
support of this proposition, and in fact are supposed to control this case in all respects. -But while it is true that the
bonds in question in both thosd cases (they were, in fact, but
one case) were the bonds delivered to White and Chiles, and
that some very important .questions were decided concerning the relation of the State of Texa. to the Union, and the
vdlidity of her legislation While under control of the enemy
doring the war of the rebellion; it is a!so true that the very
matters of which the present bill is full, but of .which there
is a flat denial and no proof whatever were supported in
that case by sufficient evidence. On.an examination of the
report of that case it-will be seen that the court was of,
opinion that it was established both in evidence and by,the
answers of some of the parties that the bonds then in controversy were all of them issued to White and Ohiles, and
the illegal contract on which they were issued was in evidence, and the court was furlher of opinion that the parties
defendant had notice of those facts.
It is true that in the first of these cases the eminent judge
who delivered the opinion, in addition to deciding that the
bonds were overdue when delivered to White -and Chiles,
and for that reason subject ta ai inquiry as to the manner
in which they obtained possession of them, gave as an additional reason why defendanti could not hold them as bqnd
fide purchasers, that they had not been itidorsed by the governor as required by the statute of Texas. 'And for that
purpose he entered into an argument to show that the .State
could by statute, while those bonds were in her'possession,
limit their negotiability by requiring as one of its conditions
the indorsement of the governor.. He. also said in reference
to the repeal of that statute by the rebel legislature of Texas,
in view of the supposed treasoiable pdrpose of, it, that it
was void. All of this, however, was unnecessary to the
decision of that case, and the soundness of the proposition
may be doubted.
7 Wallace, 718.

t- 10 Id: 68.

84

NATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTON V. TEXAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Swayne, J., concurring.

In the subsequent case of Texas v. Huntington,* which
was an action at law in reference to some of the bonds in
the same category as those now before us, the justice who
delivered the abovementioned opinion, qualifies it so far
as to say that the repealing statute, though.passed by a rebel
legislature, is not void in"its application to bonds not issued
for treasonable purposes. This is sufficient to relieve the
present case of any embarrassment growing out of that
branch of the opinion in the case of Texas v. White and Chiles.
This latter case, Texas v. Huntinglon, on a careful examination of it must be held to dispose of the one before us.
It is said, among otherfthings, "that DO one other than a
holder of the bonds, or one who having held them has received the proceeds, with notice of the illegal transfer, for
an illegal purpose caivbe held liable to the claim of the
reconstituted State." Again: 1' Whether there was evidence
in the present case establishing the fact of the unlawful issue
and use, and the further fact of notice to defendants, within
the principles heretofore laid down, as now explained and
qualified, is a question for the jury."
In the case before us, which is a suit in equity, it was a
question for the chancellor, to be established by evidence.
As we have already said, there is no proof either of the unlawful issue or use, or purpose, nor of any notice to defendants of the probable existence of these facts.
DECREE

EVERSED,

with directions to
DISMISS THE BILL.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE:
I concur in the judgment of the court just announced, but
as the case involves important legal principles I prefer to
give my'views in a separate opinion.
Pursuant to the act of Congress of September 9th, 1850,t
the United States issued to the State of Texas their bonds:
to .the amount of five millions of. dollars. They were denominated on their-face "Texas. Indemn ity' Bonds." They
* 16 Wallace, 402.

!a,9
Stat..At :Large, 446.

Oct. 1878.]

ITATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTON V. TEXAS.

85

Opinion of Swayne, J., concurring.

all bore date January 1st, 1851. Each one was for $1000.
It was certified on their face "that the United States of
America are indebted to the State of Texas or bearer" in.
that sum, "1redeemable after the 31st of December, 1864
with interest at the-rate of five per cent. per annum, payable
on the first days of January and July in each year, at the
Treasury of the United States, on presentation and surrender of the proper coupon hereto attached," and that the
bond "is transferable by delivery." Coupons were attached
extending to December 81st, 1864. Texas, received them
and placed them in her treasury. On the 16th of December,
1851, her legislature passed an act whereby it was provided
"that no bond issued as aforesaid, as a portion of the five
million of stock payable to bearer, shall be available in the
hands of any holder until the same shall have been indorsed
in the city of Austin by the governor of the State of Texas."
A large portion of the bonds were indorsed by the governor
and disposed of pursuant to other acts of tife legislature.
Acts were passed from time to time appropriating other
portions for different purposes. Some of these acts prescribed a different mode of transfer, and some were silent
upon the subject. - Transfers were made in such cases without the governor's indorsement. On the 11th of January,
1861, the provision requiring his indorsement was repealed.
On the same day a military board was created and authorized to prepare the State for defence, and for that purpose
to use the bonds still in the treasury to the extent of a million of dollars. This action was taken by the State with the
view.of engaging in the war of the rebellion, then impending, against the United States. On the 12th of January,
1865, the milithry board entered into a contract with White
and Chiles, in pursuance whereof $135,000 of the bonds were
sold and delivered to them. On the 15th of February, 1867,
the State of Texas filed in this court an original bill against
White and Chiles and others, wherein it was charged that
the repeal of the requirement of the governofi's indorsement
and the contract with White and Chiles were in aid of the
rebellion and therefore void, and it sought to recover back

86

NATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTON V. TEXAS.

[Sup.

at.

Opinion of Swayne, J., concurring.

the bonds or their value from White and Ohiles and the
other defendants to whom it was alleged White and Chiles
had transferred 'portions of them.
This court decreed
against White and Chiles.* The case stood over as against
Hardenberg, one of the other defendants. Subsequently a
decree was rendered against him.t The State also sued
William S. Huntington, at law, in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, for the conversion of certain of the
bonds redeemed at the -Treasury, the proceeds whereof had
gone to him. The State recovered as to thirteen of these
bonds and failed as to the residue. The judgment was
brought to this court uipqn error and reverded.1.
The case made in the record before us by the complainant, so far as is necessary to state it, is as follows:
It is alleged that the military board for insurrectionary
purposes, sold and delivered td White and Chiles one hundred and thirty-five of the bonds; that thirty-three of these
bonds, after becoming past due, were sold to the bank, or
were placed in its hands to collect for White and Ohiles,
with full knowledge of the manner in which White and
Chiles haa obtained them, and in bad faith on the part of
the bank; and that the bonds had never been indorsed in
such manner as to pass the title out of the State of Texas.
The prayer is that the bank be enjoined from receiving the
amount due on the bonds -from the United States; that they
may be delivered up to the State, if still in the possession of
the bank, and if not, that the bank may be decreed to pay
theiryalue to the State. A copy of the contract of the military board with White and Chiles is annexed to the bill.
The bank and Huntington answered jointly. The answer,
among other thingsDenies all knowledge of the transactions between the military board and White and Chiles; it denies that they hold
or claim the bonds 'described in the bill; it denies that they
were in 4ny way the agents of White and Chiles or bought
any bonds from them; it denies that they had any knowl* 7 Wallace, 700.

.t- 10 1d. 68.

$ 16 Id. 402.

Oct. 1873.] NATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTON V. TEXAS.

87

Opinion of Swayne, J., concurring.

edge that their bonds came through White and Chiles; it
avers that they had heard there would be diffidulty about.
the White and Ohiles bonds, and before purchasing, made
diligent inquiry at the Treasury Department; that no one
there could identify the bonds in question as White and
Ohiles's.bonds, and that the bank bought them believing
they were not such; it avers that tfl'ey knew the Secretary.
of the Treasury had paid similar bond, and gives a large
list of such bonds; it denies all knowledge of White and
Ohiles.
The court below decreed again .t the bank for the value
of nineteen bonds and in'terest. - Those bonds are numbered
in the decree as follows: 4226, 4227, 4229, 4703, 4705,.4706,
4748, 4813, 4825, 4843, 4844, 4912, 4927, 4928, 4929, 4960,
4961, 4962, and 4963.
The bank removed the case to this court by appeal, and
it is now-before us for review. The complainant did not
appeal. This defines the ground of the controversy in this
court between the parties, and narrows the circle of inquiry
to the bonds numerically specified in the decree.
IThere is neither proof nor admission in the record of the
execution of the contract of fhe military board with White
and Chiles. It must, therefore, be laid out of view.
Averments by the complainant, vital in the case, are denied by the answer. The answer is responsive and the denials absolute. This throws the burden of proof upon the
complainant, anlthe denials are conchlsive unless overcome
-by the tbstimony of two witnesses to the contrary, or "'e
testimony of one witness, and circumstances established
otherwise equal in effect to the direct testimony of another.
The effort of Texas to leave the'GTiion was revolutionary.
All her, legislative acts for the accomplishment of that obhect
were void. Her position has been aptly resembled-to tht
of a county in rebellion against the State.* While her enactments outside of the sphere of her normal authority were
ickman v. Jones, 9 Wallace, 197.
i.

88

NATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTON v. TEXAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Swayne, J., concurring.

without validity, those within it, passed for the ordinary administration of her powers and duties as a State, had the
same effect as if the rebellidn had not occurred. The.Iatter
principle springs from an overruling necessity. A different
rule would involve the dissolution of the social compact, and
resolve society back into its original elements.
The repeal touching the governor's indorsement was an
act of ordinary legislation. It was, therefore, within the rule
last mentioned. If it had in view the promotion of the rebel
cause it was too remote from that end, and its tendency too
indirect to render it fatally liable to that objection. The repeh put an end to the existence of the restriction. But if
the restriction had not been repealed I cannot admit that
the want of the indorsement would have in any wise affected
a bond.fide holder, or in other words, one who had honestly
bought'the bonds for a valuable consideration without
knowledge of any infirmity in the title of his vendor. The
United States made them payable "to the State of Texas, or
bearer." Delivery passed the title. Texas could not restrain
their trgnsferability in the markets of the world, according
to the law merchant, in any case 'vithout bringing home
-notice to the party sought to be implicated or putting upon
the bonds something which must necessarily operate as a
notice to every buyer.
Winston v. Westfeldt* has an important bearing upon this
subject. There the holder of a promissory note had been
enjoined from transferring it. He transferred it, underdue,
by indorsement. The indorsee gave a valuable consideration
and took it without notice of any defect. It was held that
the title of the indorsee was valid, notwithstanding the injunction.
The fact that the bonds were overdue when the bank
bought them does not affect the case. The transferee of
overdue negotiable paper takes it liable to all the equities
to which it was subject in the hands of the payee. But
those equities must attach to the paper itself, and not arise
" * 22 Alabama, 760.

Oct. 1873.]

NATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTON V.

TEXAS.

89

Opinion of Swayne, J., concurring.

from any collateral transaction. A debt due to the maker
from the payee at the time of the transfer cannot be set off
in a suit by the indorsee of the payee, although it might
have been enforced if the suit had been brought by th
latter.* The result is the same whether the transfer be
made by indorsement or delivery.. But the protection of
this principle is confined to the maker or obligor. It does
not apply as between successive takers. Actual notice is
necessary to affict them. There is nb adverse presumption.
Each one takes the legal title, and his equity is equal to that
of his predecessors. "The equities being equal, the law
must prevail."t The position of the transferee must be at
least as favorable as that of the assignee of a chose in action.
There the assignee takes suhject to the equity residing in
the debtor, but not to an equity residing in a third person
against the assignoi.
Chancellor Kent, speaking of this rule in this class of
cases, says: "The assignee can always go to the debtor and
ascertain what claims lie imy have against the bond or
other chose in action which lie is about purchasing from the
obligee, but he may not be able with the utmost diligence
to ascertain the latent equity of some third person against
the.obligee. He has not any object to which he can direct
his inquiries, and for this reason the assignee, without notice,
of a chose in action, was ,preferred in the late case of Bedfearn v. Ferrierel al.,J to'Tlat of a third party setting up a
secret equity against the assignor. Lord Eldon observed in
that case that if this were not so no assignment could ever be
taken with safety."§ This reasoning is strikingly applicable
in the case before us. It was the duty of the cashier to inquire at the Treasury Department. He did so, and learned
that there was no objection to any of the bonds but those
which had been delivered to White and Chiles, and he beBurrough v. Moss, 10 Barnewall & Cresswell, 558; Whitehead v. Walker, 10 Mceeson and Welsby, 696; Hughes v. Large, 2 Pennsylvania State,
103; Gullett v. Hoy, 15 Missouri, 400; Story on Bills, 220.
j- Judson v. Corcoran, 17 Howard, 614.
Murray v. Lilburn, 2 Johnson's Chancery, 443.
$ 1 Dow, 60.

90

N.ATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTON

v. TEXAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Swayne, J., concurring.

came satisfied that those involved in this controversy did not
belong to that class. It was impossible for him to find and
consult all those through whose hands they might have
passed before they were offered to the bank.
If negotiable paper, underdue, be in the hands of a bone
fide holder, any subsequent holder may avail himself of that
fact against the equity of the maker.* Every holder is presumed to have acquired his title before the maturity of the
instrument and bona fide. The burden of proof rests upon
the party alleging the contrary.t It is only in case of dishonor that the equities of the maker, or obligor, can be set
up against a boaafide holder. It may be doubted whether
these bonds belonged to that class.1 I have preferred. to
consider the case in this aspect, upon the hypothesis most
favorable to the co'mplainant. It is unnecessary to resolve,
in this case, either way the doubt suggested.
The rights of the holders of commercial paper were largely
considered by this court in Goodman v. Simonds,§ and in Mu1rray v. Lardner.I What was there said need not be repeated.
It remains to consider the case in the light of the evidence.
In order to maintain the decree it is necessary for the complainant to establish the following facts:
(1.) That the bonds specified in the decree were of those
disposed of by the military board to White and Chiles;
(2.) That the transaction was in aid of the rebellion;
(3.) That the bank, before it bought, had notice of the infirmity of the title of White and Chiles.
And these facts must be established by the measure of
proof requisite to overcome the responsive denials of the
answer.
It is shown by the complainant's own testimony-and
there is none to the contrary-that six of the bonds liere in
3 Kent's Commentaries, 92; Chitty on Bills, 221; Smith v. Hiscock, 14
Maine, 449; Fairclough v. Fiavia, 9 Exchequer, 690; Oulds v. Harrison, 10
Id. 579.
t Byles on Bills, 165.
$ 9 Opinions of the Attorneys-General, 413; 11 Id. 332.
112 Wallace, 110.
20 Howard, 343.

Oct. 1873.]

NATIONAL BANK OF WASHINGTON

v. TEXAS.

91

Opinion of Swayne, J., concurring.

question were transferred and delivered by the authorities
of the State pursuant to an act of the legislature to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company. They are numbered 4703,
4705, 4706, 4748, 4813, and 4825. It is proved by th6 same
testimony that four more were not of those delivered to
White and Chiles. They are numbered 4960, 4961, 4962,
and 4963. It is also proved that five of the bonds, Nos. 4843;
4844, 4927, 4928, and 4929, were sold to the bank by Jay."
Cooke & Co. It is not shown when Cooke & Co. acquired
them. It is, therefore, presumed they bought them underdue and bondfide, and their title enures to the benefit of their
vendee. Three of thle bonds, Nos. 4226, 4227, and 4229,
were bought by tlie bank of Wolf. There is some testimony
tending to show that he bought after they were due.- But
there is no such proof as to his vendor. The presumption
as to the latter is, therefore, otherwise. This ends the controversy as to these eighteen- bonds. The remaining bond
is No. 4912.
The only testimony in the record in any degree adverse
to the bank upon the points in issue, is that of Comptroller
Taylor and that of Judge Paschal.
In his examination-in-chief the comptroller said:
"From all the circumstances, my opinion is those were of
the White and Chiles bonds. That is only an opinion, how-

ever."
On cross-examination:
"Q. Do you know, of your own knowledge, that White
and Chiles, or either of them, ever saw one or these bonds ?
"A. I know if only front the papers on file in the department; that is, from my opinion of what those papers show.
"They are too numerous for me to present here now, and
I might add, that-one would have to study them very carefully, and make his calculations as to the different bonds.
"It would be by taking the seven hundred and eightjitwo bonds that were not iidorsed, and tracing them back
by the evidence into the hands of those parties who held
them at different times, and ascertaining, in some instances,
the particular numbers that were known to be in the hands

THE CONFISCATION

OASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

of particular parties before the transaction between White
and Chiles and the military board, and taking others, again,
that came from tile State of Texas, and then drawing my conclu'sions as to what zwere IV/dle and Chiles's bonds."
With these admissions before us it is sufficient to remark
that his testimbny is clearly incompetent.* And, if not so,
it would be iisufficient to maintain, in behalf of the complainant, the issue between the parties. The same remarks
are applicable to the testimony of Judge Paschal. So far as
it affects this case it is liable to the same objections. He
says, among other thitngs: " I was employed by Governor
Pease to prosecute this suit, and caused it to be instituted
in 1868; and judging from a careful examination made in
Texas, and in the Treasury Department here, I feel confident
,that the bonds redeemed for the bank, described by Mr.
Taylor, were a part of t'he bonds which passed through the
hands of White and Chiles, and I judge this from the circumstances which he has stated." This is mere opinion,
founded upon data not disclosed and in part upon the opinion
of-another witness. Further remarks up6n the subject are
unnecessary. There are other detects in the evidence for
the complainant, but it is unnecessary to advert to them.
Altogether it fails wholly to sustain the case made by the
bill. The decree of the court below is, in my opinion, prop-.
erly reversed.

THE CONFISCATION OASES.
[SLIDELL's LAND.]
1. An information in ?-em under the fifth, sixth, and seventh sections of the
Confiscation Act of July 17th; 1862, for the confiscation of 'the real

estate of a person falling within the provisions of those sections-such
information not being in any sense a criminal proceeding-is not, after
default made and entered, and after a final judgment of ondemnation,

to be held fatally defective because it has averred that the property
* Armstrong v. Boylan, 1 Southard, 76;

stock, 514.

Morehouse v. Mathews, 2 Corn-

