Oct. 1874.]

CLARK V. IOWA CITY.

Syllabus.

attempted to levy taxes of this character, clearly within the
letter and the spirit of the constitutional prohibition, show
the necessity of a rigid adlierence to the demands of that
instrument. If lhardships arise in the enforcement of this
principle, and the just necessities of a local commerce require a tax which is otherwise forbidden, it is presumed that
Congress would not withhold its assent if properly infbrmed
and its consent requested.
This is a much wiser course, and Congress is a much safer
depositary of the final exercise of this important powxer than
the ill-regulated and overtaxed towns and cities, which are
not likely to look much beyond their own needs and their
own interests.
We are of opinion that the ordinance under which the
levee dues were assessed upon the plaintiff's vessel is unconstitutional and void.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the case remanded to the Supreme Court of Louisiana for further proceedings,
IN

CLARK V.

CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

IOWA

CITY.

.1. The statute of limitations of Iowa, which bars actions upon all written
contracts within ten years after the cause of action thereon has accrued,
commences to run against actions upon coupons for interest annexed to

municipal bonds in that State, when they have been detached from the
bonds and transferred to parties other than the holders of the bonds,
from the maturity of the coupons respectively.

2. The cases of The City of Kenosha v. Lamson (9 Wallace, 477) and of The
City of Lexington v. Butler (14 Wallace, 282) commented upon and explained.
"3 Coupons for interest when severed from the bonds to which they were
annexed. original4y are negotiable and pass by delivery. They then
cease to be incidents of the bonds, and become independent 6laimis; and
do not lose their validity, if for any cause the bonds are cancelled or
paid before maturity.

CLARK V.

IOWA CITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

EltoR to the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa. The
case was thus:
On the 1st of March, 1856, Iowa City issued a number of
bonds, dated on the day just named, promising in each to
pay to the bearer, on the 1st of January, 1876, the sum of
$500, with interest at 10 per ebnt., payable on the 1st of
January in each year. For this interest ten, coupons, or interest warrants in negotiable fbrm, fbi $50 each, were annexed to the bonds. From ten of these bonds the coupons
were subsequently cut off, and ]ong before the comrmen'cement of this suit-which was oi tile 31st of January, 1874were negotiated and by'purchase and delivery became the
property of a certain Clark. The ten bonds themselves,
from which tile coupons were thus severed, were paid off and
satisfied by the company prior to the said date; Clark not
being at the time owner or holder of any of them.
In this state of things Clark, on the said 31st of January,
1874, sued the city on ten coupons representing the instalments due on the 1st of January, 1860. More than fburteen
years had thus elapsed since the coupons had become due,
and since suit might have been brought on them.
The statute of limitations in Iowa, making no distinction
between simple contracts and specialties, enacts that all
actions "founded on written contracts" must be brought
within ten years after the cause of action accrued.
In bringing his suit so long after the coupons became due,
the plaintiff's idea, founded on his interpretation of the decisions in The City of Kenosla v. Lamson* and T/he City of
Lexin ton v. Batler,t in this court, was that the statute began
to run against the coupons only from the maturity of the
bond, and as the bond would not be barred until January
1st, 1886, that his suit on the coupons, though brought, more
than fourteen years after they becpme due, was still in time.
The defendant's position was that the cases just mentioned
and relied on by.the plaintiff were misinterpreted by him;
,that suits on the coupons were barred in ten years-after their
*9

"Wallace,477.

T 14 Id. 282.

Oct. 1874.]

CLARK. V. IOWA CITY.
Argument in support of the right to sue.

own maturity, or barred January 1st, 1870, more than four
years befbre this suit was brought.
The defendant accordingly pleaded the statute of limitations, alleging that more than ten years had elapsed since
the cause of dction arose dnd before the bringing of the suit.
He pleaded further the fhcts abovementioned abput the
coupons and bonds; to wit, that the plaintiff got them by
purchase in the market after they had been evered from
the bonds; that long before the suit brought the bonds had
been sa}tisfied, and that the plaintiff was not owner of them
when they were so paid.
To tiis.plea the defendant demurred, assigning for cause
"that the statute had not run fir ten years against the covenant in the bonds to pay the interest, and that the payment
of the bonds to another person than the holder of the coupons
did not bar his remedy on the coupon, his right of action
running on the coupons until the remedy thereon was barred
by running of the statute against the bond itself."
A point thus made was"Does the statute of limitation commence to run upon the
coupons in suit from their own maturity respectively, or does it
commence to run upon the coupons only from the maturity of
the bonds to which said coupons belonged ?"
The judges being opposed in opinion on the question, they
certified it to this cout for answer.
Mr. James' Grant, for the plaintiff:
As we interpret the decisions of this court, the point raised
has been decided here in our favor.
In The City of Kenosha v. Lamson, in 9th Wallace, a suit
on coupons which, not having been under seal, were barred
as a simple contract by the statute, though the bond which
was under seal was, as a specialty, not barred, Nelson, J.,
giving the judgment, says:

"The coupon is not- an independent instrument, . . . but is
given for interest thereafter to become due upon the liond, which
interest is part of the bond and partakes of its nature, and the
bond . . . is not barred by lapse of time short of twenty years."

586

CLARK V. IOWA CITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

This language may perhaps be capable of two interpretations, but the most reasonable seems to be that which would
make it say that all rights belonging to the creditor on the
bonds belong to him also on the coupons. If that is its
meaning, then as suit on the bond in this case would not be
barred till January 1st, 1886, neither will suit on the coupons
be. That the meaning which we assume to be the true
meaning of this case was subsequently understood in this
court to be so, appears by the case of The City of Lexington
v. Buller, in 14th Wallace. There Clifford, J., says expressly,
and in a way which leaves no doubt as to the conception by
that learned justice of the formier case, and of his meaning
in the one theni before the court:
"It is.well-settled law that a suit upon a coup9n is not barred
by the statute of limitations unless the lapse of tinte is sufficient to
bar also a suit upon the bond, as the coupon, if in the usual form,
is but a repetition of the contract in respect to the interest, for
the period of time therein mentioned which the bond makes
upon the subject, being given for the interest thereafter to become due upon the bond, which interest is parcel of the bond,
and partakes of its nature, and is not barred by lapse of time
except for the same period as would bar a suit, unless it is
barred on the bond to which it was.attached."
Mr. L. B. Patterson, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The bonds of Iowa City were-taken up and cancelled before the commencement of this action, but previous to such
cancellation the coupons for interest due on the 1st ofJanuary, 1860, upon which the action is brought, were detached
and negotiated to other parties until by purchase they came
to the possession of the plaintiff. The statute of Iowa prescribes the limitation of ten years to actions on all written
contracts, whether under seal or otherwise.
The simple question, therefore, presented for our determination is whether the statute is a bar to an action upon
the coupons detached from the bonds and transferred to
parties other than the holders of the bonds, when it would

Oct. 1874.]

CLARK V.

IOWA CITY.

Opinion of the court.

not be a bar to an action on the bonds themselves had they
not been cancelled.
The counsel fbr the plaintiff cites the case of The City of
Kenosha v. Lamson, reported in the 9th of Wallace, and the
case of The City of Lexington v. Butler, reported in the 14th
of Wallace, as conclusive against the bar of the statute.
There are expressions in the opinions of the court in those
cases which, detached from the context, -would seem to justify this conclusion. But the whole purport of the decisions
in those cases was to the effect that the coupons being given
for interest on the bonds, partook of their nature. and were
equally high as security, and therefore the statute could only
run against them when it would run against instruments of
the dignity of the bonds. In other words, thedeci4ions only
established the doctrine that the coupons so far phrtook of
the nature of the bonds that as the latter were speefahties so
were they specialties also, and not mere simple contracts.*
The first case, that of The City of ". nosha v.'LIg-son, arose
in Wisconsin, where actions upoi, sealed instuments are
not barred until the lapse of twenty years. whtilst actions
upon simple contracts are barred in six years. Thaction
was brought upon the coupons when moie than 'six years
but less than twenty years had elapsed after their maturity.
And the court held that the coupons were substantially
copies of the bond in respect to the interest, and were given
to the holder of the bond for the purpose of enabling him to
collect the interest at the time and place mentioned; without
the trouble of presenting the bond every time the interest
became due, and to enable him to realize the interest 'v
negotiating the coupons in business transactions; and that
the coupons partaking of the nature of the bonds, which

were of higher security than the coupons, were not barred
1y lapse of time short of twenty years. The court concluded
its opinion by observing that it would be a departure from
the purpose for which the Qoupois were issued, and from
See also Commissioners of Knox County v. Aspinwall, 21 Howard, 539,
546.

CLARK V. IOWA CITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the inte.t of the parties, to hold that when they are cut off
from thebonds the nature and character of the security
changes and becomes a simple contract debt and adds:
"Our conclusion is that the cause of action is not barred by
lapse of time short of twenty years." The case of The City of ..exihgton v. Butfer arose in Kentucky, where the statute prescribes fifteen years as the limitation for actions on bonds and only five years for actions
on simple contracts. The action was upon coupons of ccrtain bonds issued by the city, and the city pleaded the statute
iiswered that bonds
of limitations of five years, but the courtan
were specialties not falling within the period prescribed;
that suits on bonds might be ;uoaintained if commenced
within fifteen years after the cause of action accrued, and
that a suit upon a coupon was not barroel by the statute unless the lapse of time was sufficient to bar also a suit upon
the bond, as the coupon, if in the usual form, was but a repetition of the bond in respect to the interest for the period of
time therein mentioned, and partook of its nature.
-Itis evident fr-om this examination of the cases cited that
it Was not the intention of the court to deide that an action
upon a coupon detacmhed from the bond, and negotiated to
other parties, was not subject to flile same limitations as an
action upon the bond itself; ranch less to hold that tile
Coupons remained a valid and existing cause of action not
only for the period prescri)ed for actions on the bond after
its maturity, but for the additional period intervening between the maturity of the coupon and the maturity of the
bond, however great that might be. The question before
the court in those cases was only whether the time the
statute ran against the coupons was the longest or shortest
period ;-was it six or twenty years in the Wisconsin case, or
was it five or fifteen years inthe Kentucky case;-nd the
court held that the statute ran for the lonigest period, because the coupons partook of the nature of the bonds and
the statute ran for that period as to them.
Most of the bonds of municipal bodies and private corpo-.
rations in this countr& are issued in order to raise funds for

Oct. 1874.]

CLARK V. IowA OITY.
Opinion of the court.

works of large extent and cost, and their payment is, therefore, made at distant .periods, not unfrequently beyond a
qu*arter of'acentury. PoupoilS fbr the'diferent instalments
of interest are usually attached to these boL~ds, in the expectation that they will be paid as they mature, however distant
the period fixed for the payment of the principal. These
coupons, when severed from the bonds, are negotiable and
pass by delivery. They then cease to be incidents of the
bonds, and become in fact indepeindent claims; they do not
lose their validity, if for any cause the bonds are cancelled
or paid before maturity; nor their negotitable character; nor
their ability to support separate actions; and the amount
for which they are issued draws interest from its maturity.
They, then, possess the essential attributes of commercial
paper, as lifts been held by this court in repeated instances.*
Every consideration, therefore, which gives efficacy to the
statute-of limitations .wheit applicd to actions-on the bonds
after their iaturity, equally requires that similar limitations
should be applied to actions upon the coupons after their
maturity.
Coupons, when severed from the bonds to which they
were originally attached, are in legal effect equivalent to
separate bonds for the different instalments of interest. The.
like action may be brought upon each of them, when they
respectively become due, as upon the bond itself when the
principal matures; and to each action-to that upon the bond
and to each of those upon the coupons-tlie sane limitation
must upon principle apply. All statutes of limitation begin
to run when the right of action is complete, and it would be
exceptional .and illogical to hold that the statute sleeps with
respect to claims upon detached coupons, whilst a complete
right of action upon such claimis exists in the holder.
We answer, thmerefore, the question certified to us, that
the statute of Iowa which extends the same limitation to
* Thmipon v. Lee County, 3 Wallace, 327; - urora City v. West, 7 Id.
105. Sce also County of Beaver v. Armstrong, 44 Pennsylvania State, 63,
and National Exchange Bank v. Hartford, Providence, and Fibhkill Railroad Co., 8 Rhode island, 375.

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

actions on all written contracts, sealed or unsealed, began to
run against the coupons in suit from their respective maAFFIRM THE JUDGMENT.
turities; and accordingly
CLIFFORD, J.: I dissent from the opinion of the court,
upon the ground that the case is governed by our prior
decisions.

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.
4
1. The second section of the act of Feb. 5th, 1867 (1 Stat. at Large, 385),

"to amend" the Judiciary Act of 1789, operates as a repeal of the
twenty-fifth section of that act; and, the act of 1867, as it is now found
709, is the sole law
in the Revised Statutes of the United State3,
governing the removal of causes from State courts to this court for
review, and has been since its enactment in 1867.
2. Congress did not intend, by omitting in this statute the restrictive clause
at the close of the twenty-fifth section of the act of 1789 (limiting the
Supreme Court to the consideration of Federal questions in cases so removed) to enact affirmatively that the court should consider all other
questions involved in the case that might be necessary to a final judgment or decree.
3. Nor does the language of the statute, that "the judgment may be reexamined and reversed or affirmed on a writ of error . . . in the same
manner and under the same regulatians, and the writ shall have the
same effect as if the judgment or decree complained of had been rendered or passed in a court of the United States," require the examination of any other than questions of Federal law.
4. The phrase above quoted has reference to the manner of issuing the writ,
its return with the record of the case, its effect in removing the case to
this court, and the general rules of practice which govern the progress
of such cases to final judgment, and is not intended to prescribe the
considerations which should govern this court in forming that judgment.
5. But the language of the statute in making the jurisdiction of this court
dependent on the decision of certain questions by the State court against
the right set up under Federal law or authority, conveys the strongest
implication that these questions alone are to be considered Vhen the
case is brought here for revision.
6. This view is confirmed by the course of decisions in this court for eighty
years, by the policy of Congress, as shown in numerous statutes, conferring the jurisdiction of this class of cases in courts of original jurisdiction, viz , the District and Circuit Courts, whether originally or by
removal from State courts, when it intends the whole case to be tried,
and by the manifest purpose which caused the passage of the law.

