[Sup. Ct.

MATHEWS V. MCSTEA.

Statement of the case.

MATHEWS V. MCSTEA.
The decision of a State court-passing upon the effect produced by"the act of
the executive on a given contract in inaugurating the late civil war in
the United States, is reviewable here by writ of error under the second
section of the act of 5th February, 1867, to amend the Judiciary Act;
709 of the Revised Statutes of thi United States.

to the Court of Common Pleas of New York.
On motion to dismiss the writ for want of jurisdiction.
The case was thus:
On the 15th of April and 19th of April, 1861, the President, by his proclamation, declared that insurrection existed
in Louisiana and certiiin other Southern States, and that the
ports of Louisiana, with those of the said States, were under
blockade.
On the 23d of the same April, a firm composed of three
ERROR

persons, Mathews,Brander, and Charnbliss-ofwhomlathews
resided in New York and the other two in LVew Orleas-accepted
at ]Vew Orleans, a draft drawn on them for $8050, payable
twelve months after date.
On the 13th of July, 1861, an act of Congress was passed*
authorizing the Presidenit to issue a proclamation declaring
the inhabitants of any State Where insurrection existed in a
state of insurrection against the United States, and the act
declared that thereupon "all commercial intercourse by and
between the san-t, and the citizens thereof, and the citizens

of the rest of the United States, shall cease and be unlawful,
so long as such condition of hostilities shall continue." And
on the'16tli of August, 1861, the President did issue his
proclamation,t declaring Louisiana, with other States, in a
state of insurrection against the United States, and forbidding all commercial intercourse with the inhabitants of such
States.
On the 26th of February, 1862 (after this act ana procla*12 Stat. at Large, 257,

5.

tIb.

Appendix.

Oct. 1874.]

MATHEWS V. MCSTEA.
Statement of the case.

mation), other drafts were drawn and accepted in the same
way.
All the drafts came before maturity into the hands of one
McStea, and he brought suit in the court belov,-on the whole
of them. Mathews alone appeared. lIe set up the defence
that at the time of the acceptances war had been declared
and existed between that part of the United States in which
he resided and that in which his other partners resided, by
virtue of which the partnership had.been dissolved before
these acceptances were made, and that the contracts as to
him were, therefore, void.. The court decided against him
as to the acceptance made on the 23d o April, and in his
favor as to the others. ie then took the case into the Court
of Appeals; and there, upon the acceptance of the 23d of
April, for $8050, raised the same question as before, and no
other; contending that the p'roclamations of blockade of the
15th and 19th of April, by the President, had the efiect to
dissolve the partnership, and that by reason of them the act
of acceptance was void as to him.
The Court of Appeals in its opinion discussed the question at what stage of the civil war the rule against commercial intercourse with the enemy took effect so as to dissolve
the contract of partnership. Conceding that under the decision in The Prize Cases,* the war existed for some purposes
prior to that act, the court still held that it did not become,
until recognized by the.act of Congress of July 13th, 1861,
of such a character as to suspend commercial intercourse,
and, therefore, that it had no effect upon the acceptance of the
23d of April, 1861. As to the other acceptances it admitted
that thley had been rightly disposed of in the court below'.
Accordingly the questiot abovementioned as raised by Mathews-the only question in the -case, as heard and decided
in the Court of Appeals,-was decided against him.
The record haying been remitted according to the practice
of New York from the Court of Appeals to-the court where
the suit was brought, in order that the judgment might be
2 Black, 635.

MATHEWS V. MCSTEA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against dismissal.

carried into effect, Mathews now brought the case here, as
within the second section of the act of February 5th, 1867,
set forth supra, p. 592, 593, right-hand column.
Mr. A. _F. Smith, in support of the motion to dismiss:
It cannot be pretended that the case is within the first
provision of the act, for the final judgment was not against
the validity of any treaty or statute of, or authority exercised
under the United States.
Nor is it within the second, for the final judgment was not
in favor of the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under any State, on the ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United
States.
Nor is it within that part of the third which speaks of " a
commission held or authority exercised under the United
States:" for Mathews held no such commission and exercised no such authority. There accordingly only remains
for consideration the point whether he claimed in the State
court "any title, right, privilege, or immunity under the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of the United States," against which
the decision was. And it is clear that he did not. Tis position was that the war of the rebellion dissolved the partnership, on or before April 23d, 1861, and that he was not,
therefore, bound, by the acceptance of his firm on that day.
He asserted this as a general principle. He did not assert
that any statute of the United States made it so; nor that
his liability was affected either way by the non-intercourse
act of July 13th, 1861, passed nearly three months after the
acceptance,'and under which the non-intercourse proclamation was issued on August 16th of that year.
Messrs. J. Sherwood and IV. M. .Evarts, Contr_.
I. Mathews, it is plaini, insisted, in the State court, that
under the act of July 13th, 1861, the proclamations of the
President of April 15th, 1861, and April 19th, 1861, were
approved, legalized, and made valid.
Under these proclamations he claimed immunity from

Oct. 1874.]

MATHEWS V. MCSTEA.

Opinion of the court.

liability as a copartner in a firip, which he insisted was dissolved on the day of the date of the proclamation of blockade, four days before the date of the acceptance made by the
firm.

He did then claim an immunity under that statute, and
the decision in the Court of Appeals was against that immunity.
II. In the decision of the case there was, drawn in question'the construction of clauses of the Constitution.
The clauses giving to Congress the power to declare war,
and defining the authority and powers of the executive, were
necessarily considered in order to determine whether the
Presideht, in the absence of Congress, could initiate war or
repel war brought on" by foreign powers or enemies at
home.
The questions actually and necessarily determined were:
1. Whether the war of the rebellion in the beginning was
a war carrying with it the consequences of international war.
2. Whether by the war, beginning as it did, commercial
in-tercoursewas,in the month of April, 1861, suspended.
These were ceitainly Federal questions'requiring the most
enlarged and thoughtful examination of the Constitution of
the United States.*
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that the only question made and decided in this case against plaintiff in error was the sufficiency
of the acts of the President to inaugurate a war which would
render invalid this contract, and that this is one of thle questions embraced by the act of February 5th, 1867.
The motion to dismiss is, therefore,
OVERRULED.

* The Prize Case, 2 Black; The Protector, 12 Wallacei; 700; The United

States v. Lane, 8 Id. 195.

