Oct. 1874.]

LONGSTRETH V. PENNOCK.
Statement of the case.

Territory, or from the Supreme Court of the Territory to
the District Court when the action was commenced. None
could issue from this court, for there was nothinghere, so
far as the pleadings show, to remand. None was necessary
from the Supreme Court of the Territory to the District
Court, because the condition of the bond is to pay if the
judgment should be affirmed. The affirmance, therefore,
is the material fact which is to fix the liability. That is
averred in the complaint and not denied in the answer.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

LO.NGSTRETH V. PENNOCK.
The Pennsylvania statute of June 16th, 1836, which provides that where
property upon demised premises, and liable to distraint, is seized on
execution and sold, the officer making the sale shall pay the rent (provided it does not exceed one year's rent) in preference to the judgment
on which the execution issued, extends, by an equitable intendment, to
a seizure of goods similarly situated, by an assignee in bankruptcy.
A landlord's claim is accordingly, in Pennsylvania, first paid out of the
bankrupt's goods liable to distress on demised premises, and before
making a dividend of their proceeds among the creditors generally.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Pennsylvania; the case
being thus:
A Pennsylvania statute of June 16th, 1836,* enacts as
follows:
"The goods and chattels being in or upon any messuage, lands,
or tenements, which are or shall be demised for life or years or
otherwise, taken by virtue of an execution, and liable to the
distress of the landlord, shall be liable for the payment of any
sums of money due for rent at the time of taking such goods in
execution: Provided, That such rent shall not exceed one year's
rent.
"After the sale by the officer, of any goods or chattels as
Purdon's Digest, edition of 1878, p. 879.

LONGSTRETH V. PENNOCK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

aforesaid, he shall first pay out of the proceeds of such sale, the
rent so due, and the surplus thereof, if any, he shall apply
towards satisfying the judgment mentioned in such execution."
This statute being ill force, Pennock rented a warehouse
in Philadelphia to Wattson & Do Young, at the yearly rent
of $4500, payable in equal quarterly instalments. Wattson
&De Young, the lessees, being in possession of the premises,
and having therein a stock of goods more than sufficient to
pay the rent it' a distress had been made, were adjudicated
bankrupts, and Longstreth, their assignee, took possession
of the premises, and of the stock upon them. The landlord
claimed of him the rent due and accrued up to the date of
the issuing of the warrant in bankruptcy, and it having been
paid to him under a stipulation to restore the same if the
assignee were not allowed credit therefor on the settlement
of his account, and he not having been allowed such credit,
this action was brought by him to test his right to get back
what had been so paid for rent accruing prior to the warrant,
which was for much less than a year's rent. The Circuit
Court adjudged that the payment was rightfully made, and
that the assignee could not recover it back. The assignee
now brought the case here.
Mr. J. C. Longstreth, for the assignee, plaintif in error; Mr.
J. B. Townsend, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The assignee acquired his title to the movable property
found on the demised premises, subject to the rights of all
other persons.* The rent in question was for a period which
terminated when the assignee took possession, and the entire period was within a year of that time. Before the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy, the defendants in error might have distrained; and it is agreed that
the property upon the premises was more than sufficient to
satisfy the demand. The statute of Pennsylvania, of June
Gibson v. Warden, 14 Wallace, 244.

Oct. 1874.]

CANNON

v. NEW

ORLEANS.

.577

Statement of the case.

16th, 1836, provides that where property under such circunistances is seized and sold under execution; the rent due
'for a period not exceeding one year shall be paid first out
of the pi ceeds of the sale. This case is within the equity
tute.* The question presented ifi one belonging
of that
law of Pennsylvania. We think it was correctly
to the J
the Circuit Court.
decided
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CANNON V. NEW ORLEANS.
1. An ordinance of the city of New Orleans, which demands of nll stcamboats which shall moor or land in any part of the port of New Orleans
a sum measured by the tonnage of the vessel, is a tonnage tax within
the meaning of the Federal Constitution, and, therefore, void.
2.' It is a tax for the privilege of stopping in the port of New Orleans, and
cannot be justified under the plea that it is intended as a compensation
for the use of wharves built by the city.
3. For the use of wharves, piers, and similar structures, whether owned by
individuals or by the city or other corporation, a reasonable compensatioi' may be charged to the vessel, to be regulated in the interest of the
public by the State legislature or city council.
4. But in the exercise of this right care must be taken that it is not made
to cover a violation of the Federal Constitution, which prohibits the
States to lay any duty of tonnage.
6. Any duty, or tax, or burden imposed under the authority of the States
which is in its essence a contribution claimed for the privilege of arriving end departing from a port of the United States, and which is assessed 'on a vessel according to its carrying capacity, is a violation of
that provision unless the consent of Congress be obtained.
ERROR

to the.Supreme Court of Louisiana; the case being.

thus:
The Constitution of the United States ordains as follows:t
"Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States, and with the Indian tribes.
No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty
of tonnAge."
* Sedgwick'i Statutory and Constitutional Law, 296.

t Article 1, H 8, 10.
VOL. XX.

87

