Oct. 1874.]

GILLETTE V. BULLARD.
Statement of the case.

prior time, by relation back, was applicable to contracts of
insurance; that the agreement to insure wvas the principal
act, and that the formal execution of the policy might be
concurrent therewith, or subsequent thereto, and when subsequent, and made as of the date of the principal act, took
effect by relation as of that date.
Numerous other authorities to the same purport were
cited on the argument, but we do not deem it necessary to
pursue the subject further. We see no error in the ruling
of the court below, and its judgment must, therefore, be
affirmed; and it is so ordered.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

GILLETTE V. BULLARD.
In an action on the bona given on appeal from the District Court to the
Sutireme Court of the Territory of Montana, the plea was that the defendant had prosecuted a writ of error from the judgment of the Territorial court to the Supreme Court of the United States, and had had
executed his bond which operated as a supersedeas of that judgment,
and that no remittitur or mandate had issued from tbd latter court, and
that the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory still remained
in the court so stayed by the supersedeas bond and the order thereon.
This plea is insufficient in that it does not aver that at the commencement
of this action the appeal was then pending in this court or had ever
been perfected. Nor is the case altered by the Practice Act of Montana,
which enacts,.in its seventy-eighth section, that "in the construction
of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations
shall be liberally construed with a view to substantial justice."

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana.
Bullard, assignee of Marden, sued Gillette upon an appeal
bond. The action was commenced on the 80th of January,
1872. The complaint alleged that on the 15th June, 1868,
Marden recovered a judgment in the District Court of the
Territory against Plaisted & Wheelock, which yet remained
in full force, unreversed and unsatisfied except as thereinafter
ERROR

GILLETTE

v.

BULLARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

stated ; that on the 16th day of July, 1868, Plaisted & Wheelock appealed from that judgment to the Supreme Court
of the Territory, and that on such appeal Gillette executed
a bond, whereby lie became bound for the payment of. the
judgment and all damages and costs that might be awarded
against the appellants if it should be affirmed; that on the
81st December, 1868, said judgment was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the Territory, and costs adjudged against
the appellants; that on the 2d of July, 1870, Marden assigned thejudgment and his interest therein to the plaintiff;
that by virtue of executions issued, certain sums were made
on the 22d of August, and the 26th or September, 1870, bui
that a large balance still remained unpaid, for the recover3
of which the action was brought.
The answer, filed on the 21st of February, A.D. 1872, did
not deny any of the avernients in the complaint, but alleged
by way of defence, that on the day of January, 1869,
Plaisted & Wheelock appealed from the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Territory to this court; that they
thereupon executed and filed with the clerk of the Supreme
Court of the Territory a good and sufficient bond on appeal,
and that court stayed all proceedings upon the judgment
and granted a supersedeas in the action; that no remittitur
or mandate had ever been issued from this court to the Suprerne Court of the Territory, or from the Supreme Court
of the Territory to the District Court, and that the judgment
of the Supreme Court of the Territory still remained in that
court "so stayed by the order thereof by the giving of the
bond on appeal and by the supersedeas."
After the filing of the answer, judgment was given against
Gillette upon the pleadings, and he brought the case here.
The question was whether the answer stated facts sufficient
to constitute a defence to the action.
By the seventy-eighth section of the Practice Act of Montana it is provided, that "in the construction of a pleading
for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall
be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties."

Oct. 1874.]

GILLETTE V. BULLARD.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Robert Leech (a brief of Mr. W. F. Sanders beingfiled),
for the plaintfif in error:
The undertaking sued on was simply security for the judgment, and the plaintiff had no right to maintain an action
thereQn until the final affirmance.of the judgment in the
court of last resort. To enable him to maintain this action
against the surety, it was necessary that he have a right to
enter and collect a judgment of a.ffirmance in the case.* This
right, as the pleadings show, the plaintiff has never acquired.
It is true that the defendant, in his answer or plea, does
not allege in express terms that the cause is still pending in
this court. But he avers that which, by reasonable intendment and independent of any enactment, is equivalent
thereto, namely, that "no remittitur or mandate has ever
been issued from this court to the Supreme Court of the
Territory, or from the Supreme Court of the Territory to
the District Court; and that the judgment so rendered in
the Supreme Court of the said Territory still remains in that
court so stayed by the order thereof, by the giving of the
said bond on appeal, and by the said supersedeas."
But the answer is made more effective by statute. The
seventy-eighth section of the Practice Act of Montana enacts that in the constructioxi of a pleading for the purpose of
determining its effect its allegations shall be liberally construed.
Construing this answer or plef-. liberally, it-must be taken to
intend not only that the appeal had been taken, but that it
had been perfected, and was pending when the action was
begun.
No opposing counsel.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The seventy-eighth section of the Practice Act of Montana-which provides that "in the construction of a pleading for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations
shall be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
* Poppenhusen v. Seeley, 41 Barbour, 450; Robinson v. Plimpton, 25

New York, 484.

GILLETTE V. BULLARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

between the parties "--is a modification of the common-law
rule which construes all pleadings most strongly against the
pleader, but even with the statute as our guide, we think
the judgment below was correct. An answer to be good
must overcome the case made by the complaint. If the
facts well pleaded in the complaint are admitted, as in this
case, it must state other facts, sufficient, if true, to defeat
the action in whole or in part, or it 'Will not avail as a
defence.
That is not the case here. It is nowhere averred that at
the time of the commencement of this action the appeal to
this court was pending or that it had ever been perfected.
In fact, such aiverments seem to have been studiously
avoided. The appeal was allowed in January, 1869. Unless a transcript was filed in this court before the end of the
following term that appeal would be vacated. In the language of very many decisions it would becomefunctus officio.*
The supersedeas is but an appurtenance of the appeal. The
stay insisted upon in the answer, although there seems to
have been an attempt to make it more, is only that which
resulted from the supersedeas. That was at an end when
the appeal became inoperative. The'failure, therefore, to
aver that the appeal was in force was a failure to aver that
the stay as granted continued to have effect.
The complaint alleges that money was made upon executions in 1870. The date of the issue of the executions is
not given, but if the collection was regular the judgmentcould not have been stayed when the money was made, and
that was after the time within which the appeal, if it was to
remain in force, must be perfected. Clearly, therefore, to
make the defence perfect, it was incumbent upon the defendant to aver distinctly in his answer not only that the
appeal had been taken, but that it had been perfected and
was still pending when the action was commenced.
It is, however, stated that no mandate or remittitur had
been issued from this court to the Supreme Court of the
* Edmonson v. Bloomshire, 7 Wallace, 310.

Oct. 1874.]

LONGSTRETH V. PENNOCK.
Statement of the case.

Territory, or from the Supreme Court of the Territory to
the District Court when the action was commenced. None
could issue from this court, for there was nothinghere, so
far as the pleadings show, to remand. None was necessary
from the Supreme Court of the Territory to the District
Court, because the condition of the bond is to pay if the
judgment should be affirmed. The affirmance, therefore,
is the material fact which is to fix the liability. That is
averred in the complaint and not denied in the answer.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

LO.NGSTRETH V. PENNOCK.
The Pennsylvania statute of June 16th, 1836, which provides that where
property upon demised premises, and liable to distraint, is seized on
execution and sold, the officer making the sale shall pay the rent (provided it does not exceed one year's rent) in preference to the judgment
on which the execution issued, extends, by an equitable intendment, to
a seizure of goods similarly situated, by an assignee in bankruptcy.
A landlord's claim is accordingly, in Pennsylvania, first paid out of the
bankrupt's goods liable to distress on demised premises, and before
making a dividend of their proceeds among the creditors generally.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Pennsylvania; the case
being thus:
A Pennsylvania statute of June 16th, 1836,* enacts as
follows:
"The goods and chattels being in or upon any messuage, lands,
or tenements, which are or shall be demised for life or years or
otherwise, taken by virtue of an execution, and liable to the
distress of the landlord, shall be liable for the payment of any
sums of money due for rent at the time of taking such goods in
execution: Provided, That such rent shall not exceed one year's
rent.
"After the sale by the officer, of any goods or chattels as
Purdon's Digest, edition of 1878, p. 879.

