INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

COLT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

INSURANCE COMPANY V.

COLT.

1. When the charter of an insurance company in the same clause which authorized its president and directors to make insurance against fire, and
for that purpose to execute such "contracts, bargains, agreements, policies, and other instruments" as might be necessary, declared that every
such contract, bargain, agreement, and policy should be in writing, or
in print, and be under the seal of the corporation and be signed by the
president and attested by the secretary or other officer appointed for
that purpose; Held, that this requirement of the charter. had reference
only to executed contracts or policies of insurance, and not to the initial
or preliminary arrangements for insurance which precede the execution
of the formal instrument by the officers of the company.
2. An agent for an insurance company authorized to take and approve
risks, and to insure, is by general usage also authorized to allow credit
for the premium. Its allowance does not impair the validity of the preliminary contract to insure.
3. When a preliminary contract for insurance is valid it may be enforced in
a court of equity against the company; and being enforced by the procurement of a policy, an action can be maintained upon the instrument;
or the court in enforcing the execution of the contract may enter a decree for the amount of the insurance.
4. 'When an agent is authorized, after a preliminary contract for an insurance is made byhim, to fill up a blank policy duly signed and attested
by the officers of the -company, sent to him for the purpose, he is authorized to fill up such policy after a loss has occurred. When thus filled
up, the policy becomes the property nf. the assured, and upon a refusal
of the company to surrender it two courses are open to him : either to
.proceed by action to recover the possession of the policy, or to sue upon
the policy to recover for the loss, and in the latter case to prove its
contents upon failure of the company to produce the instrument on the
trial.
5. Where, at the time the preliminary contract for an insurance is made,
it is expressly stipulated that the policy when filled up shall be held by
the agent, in his safe, for-the assured, no actual manual transfer of the
policy to the assured, after its execution, is essential to perfect his title.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut; in which court Colt sued the Franklin Insurance Company, of Philadelphia, on a policy of insurance which he
alleged had been executed by the company; an allegation
on its part denied.
The uncontradicted case was thus:
The insurance company aforesaid was one incorporated

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. COLT.

561

Statement of the case.

by Pennsylvania and having its principal office in Philadelphia. One section of its charter gave to its president and
directors power to appoint such "agents" as should be necessary for conducting and executing its business elsewhere
than in Philadelphia as well as in that city, and the company
accordingly was doing business in Hartford, Connecticut, and
had as its general agents there, for the transaction of its
business of fire insurance, with power to take and approve
risks and insure and countersign policies, a firm known as
Nevprs &.Havens.
Another section of the charter, the eighth, was in these
words:
"ยง 8. The said president and directors shall have full powers
on behalf of the said corporation, to make insurance against
losses by fire, on any house, tenement, manufactory, or other
building, . . . and to make,-execute, and perfect such and so many
contracts, bargains, agreements, policies, and other instruments, as
shall or may be necessary, and as the nature of the case shall or may
require; and every such contract, bargain,agreement, and policy to
be made by saidcorporationshall be in writing or in print, and shall
be under the seal of the said corporation,signed by the president,and
attested and signed by the secretary, or other officer who may be appointed by the president and directorsfor that purpose."

With this charter in force, the said N.evers & Havens, as
agents of the company, on the 26th of August,. 1870, made
proposals to Colt to insure certain premises belonging to
him. He thereupon made an application for insurance for
the sum of $10,375, from August 26th, 1870, for a term of
five years, to be placed in the company. And a parol contract of insurance was then completed with the said Nevers
& Havens, agents as aforesaid, to insure this said property
with the company for five years from the said date, the insurance to be binding on and from that date, at a premium
then fixed and agreed to. Credit was given for the payment
of the premium till the 1st of October then next, and it was
agreed that a policy should be made, and that Nevers &
Havens should keep it in their possession for Colt till the
VOL. XX.

86

-562

INSURANOE COMPANY V. COLT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

1st of October, for his convenience, he saying that he had
then no safe and convenient place in which to-keep papers
of that character.
The property was destroyed by fire without fault of Colt,
on the 20th day of September, 1870, and proofs of loss were
duly made and presented.
No policy was made until after the fire, when Nevers &
Havens, upon the request of Colt, filled out a blank policy
of the company, properly signed and countersigned. They
declined, however, to surrender the possession of the same
to Colt till they should have consulted the company.
The company had na knowledge of the said negotiations
or of the contract to insure (except as the knowledge of the
said agents might be the knowledge of the company) till
after the fire, and no communication respecting the negotiations or contract had been made by Nevers & Havens to
it till after the fire.
The policy was subsequently, after such consultation, returned by the agents to the company.
Colt tendered to the agents the premium on the 22d of
September, 1870, and demanded the policy, and it not having
been produced he demanded the insurance-money (again tendering the premium), and the insurance.money being rerued
he brought suit against the company at law, and on the trial,
proved the contents of the policy.
The counsel for the defendant requested the court to
charge the jury1st. That the eighth section of the company's charter prescribed the manner in which every contract, bargain, and
agreement of insurance should be made, and that no contract having been made in writing or print, and executed as
therein required during the existence of the property claimed
to have been insured, the company was not liable in the
action.
2d. That under and by virtue of the charter of the company, it was not authorized to make a parol contract of insurance, and that any such contract was void at law.
3d. That under the said charter an action at law could not

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE
4

COMPANY V. C"OLT.

&rpmentfor the insurance company.

be sustained against the company upbn a parol agreement
to insure, or a parol contract of insurance.
4th. That it being a fact, hi this case admirted by the
plaintiE, that the parol contract of insurance was not exe"
cuted or evidenced by a written.policy until after the destruetion of the property by fire, the company's agent had no authority subsequent to the fire to make and execute a written
policy which should be binding upon" it.
The court refused thus to charge the jury; and.charged
contrariwise, that upon the uncontradicted case the plaintiff
was entitled to their verdict. ' To this charge the conipatiy
excepted, and verdict and judgment having'gone against it,
it brought the case here.
Messrs. F. Ghaniberlin-andE. Hall,for the plaintiff in error:
When the charter of a 'corporation prescribes to it in
terms plainly mandatory a particular mode and manner in
which all its contracts shall be executed and delivered, such
prescription operates as a limit upon the mode in'which such
contracts shall be executed and -delivered, and -all persons
dealing 'with a corporation (even a foreign one) are. bound
to take notice of every limitation upon its powers contained
in its eharter.*
Now, the eighth section of this company's charter declares
not only that.every "policy to be made by said corporationi
shall be in writing, or in print," but that every "contract,
bargain, 'agreement," shall be just as much so. The- only
question therefore is, Was what was done by Ne'vers & Havens any kind of a contract, bargain,.or agreement made by
the corporation ? The whole case of the plaintiff rests upon
an assumption that it was completely a contract, bargain;
and agreement made by it. He has no case whatever but
on that assumption. The language of this section has an
emphasis of comprehension. It is that "every" contract,
bargain, or agreement-contracts, bargains, and agreements
howsever made-whether made by the company, at its
See Hoyt v. Thompson, 19 New York, 222.

INSURANCE

C00MPANY V.

COLT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the'insurance company.

office in Philadelphia, or in other places, and by its agentswhether preliminary or final-all must be "in writing," &c.
The legislature And the insurance company doubtless knew
that these requirements would cause a certain amount of delay to the company in transacting the business of insurance.
But they considered this to be far less injurious and far less
embarrassing than continual lawsuits irising on disputes of
what it was that agQnts had done, and whether, in what they
had done, they had transcended their authority or not.
The reason of this requirement in the case of this particular company is specially obvious. The Franklin Insurance Company was chartered to do business in every
State of the Union as much as in Pennsylvania; in States far
from its home as well as in its home. "Agents" are part
of its machinery as chartered. Now, it is notorious that the
business, of agents is not to "execute and perfect policies,"
but to "make contracts, bargains, agreements," preliminary to the "execution and perfecting of policies," and it is
equally notorious that the actions of agents of insurance
companies in making such preliminary "contracts, bargains,
and agreements" are among the most fertile sources of litigation in insurance cases. A wise policy of the legislature
of Pennsylvania therefore required these, as well as that
which was but the executing aid perfecting of them, to be
in a formal shape, and signed in the way prescribed, before
they should become binding.
Can it be supposed that the same legislature which requires policies to have form and to be in writing, meant to
leave all the preliminary contracts, bargains, and agreements on which policies were to issue, loose and open to
parol? these preliminary contracts, bargains, and agreements
especially being made by mere agents, persons in distant
places, and of necessity unknown to the company. The
preliminary contracts, bargains, and agreements are the
foundation of the policies. They are the essential and only
essential portions of what is done. When they are clear and
undisputed, the policy is but a form. Equity will regard it
as executed and perfected, though not one word of it has

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. COLT.

565

Argument for the insurance company.

been written. Nay, though it be all written and printed,
and sealed and attested, yet if it differ from the preliminary
agreement it is-nought, and will be made to conform to it.
Now, did the legislature mean to sweep away all protection
to the company by leaving every important thing to rest in
parol, and requiring that which was but form, to be in writing and solemnly executed?
Some reliance will perhaps be placed by opposing counsel
on what was said by the late Mr. Justice Grier of this colirt,
in the case of Oonstant v. Alleghany Insurance Company, ruled
in the Pennsylvania circuit.* There a statute of Pennsylvania empowered an insurance company
"To make, execute, and perfect such contracts, bargains,
agreements, policies, and other instruments as shall or may be
necessary, and as the nature of.the case may require, and every,
such contract, bargain, policy, and other agreement shall be in
writing or print, under the corporate seal, and signed by the
president, or, in his inability, by the vice-president."
A parol preliminary contract was made through an agent
and a loss having occurred, and the company having refused
to pay, the assuredfiled a bill in equity to compel the company
to execute the policy and for relief. Mr. Justice Grier, indeed, said that"Before such instruments are attested in due form, the presi,dent or secretary, or whoever else may act as a general agent
of the company, may make agreements, and even parol promises, as to the terms on which a policy shall be issued, so that a
court of equity will compel the company to execute the contract
specifically; and that where the loss bad happened-to avoid
circuity of action-the chancellor will enter a decree directly
for the amount of the insurance for which the company ought
to have delivered their policy, properly attested."
Whether this position is correct we need not inquire further than we have done. Conceding it to be correct, the
case does not touch ours. The case before Grier, J., was- a
* 8 Wallace, Jr. 316.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. COLT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

proceeding in equity. Our case is at law, and though the
reverend justice, of whom we speak, abhorred every sort of
technicality that sought to entangle justice in its meshes,
he yet noted how different the case would have been had
the suit been like this, one at law. He says:
"By its act of incorporation, this company could make insurance which would be legally valid, only by a policy attested by
the president, secretary, and the seal of the corporation."
The case, therefore, is in our favor, not against us.
ilfessrs. H. C. Robinson and -R. -D. Hubbard, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The charter of the company defendant in the same clause
which' authorizes its president and directors to make insurance against fire, and for that purpose to execute such
"contracts, bargains, agreements, policies, and other instruments" as may be necessary, declares that every such contracti bargain, agreement, and policy shall be in writing, or
in print, and be under the seal of the corporation, and be
signed by the president and attested by the secretary or other
officer appointed for that purpose.
Where similar language -s to the form of the contract or
policy was used in connection with a like grant of power to
insure, in a general statute of Pennsylvania respecting insurance companies, it was held by the late Mr. Justice Grier,
in a case before the Circuit Court of the United States, that
a company to which the law applied, could make an insurance, which would be legally valid, only by a policy attested
by the officers and seal of the corporation.*' The learned
justice undoubtedly considered that the mode -in which the
contract or policy could be made was so associated with the
grant of power as to be essential to a valid exercise of the
power. And such appears to be the natural import of the
language of the clause of the charter of the defendant under
Constant v. The Insurance Company, 8 Wallace C. C. 316.

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. COLT.
Opinion of the court.

consideration in this case, when the whole clause, that which

confers the power and that which prescribes the mode of its
exercise, is read.
But the learned justice at the same time very justly observed, that before the policy was attested indue form the
president or secretary, or whoever else might act as general
agent of the company, might make agreements and parol
promises as to the terms on which a policy should be issued,
so that a court of equity would compel te company to execute the contract specifically; and that where a loss had happened, to avoid circuity of action, the chancellor would enter
a decree directly for the amount of the insurance for which
the company ought to have delivered its policy properly
attested.
The requirement of the charter in this case has reference,
in our judgment, only to executed contracts or policies of
insurance, by which the company islegally bound to indemnify against loss, and not to those initial or preliminary arrangements which necessarily'precede the execution of the
formal instrument by the officers of the company. The preliminary arrangements for the amount and conditions of insurance are in a great majority of instances made by agents.
It is always so where the insurance is effected out of the
State -where the company is incorporated and has its principal place of business. The charter of the company in this
case authorized the president and directors to appoint officers
and agents for conducting its business in other places than
the city of Philadelphia. And it would be impracticable to
carry on its business in other cities and States, or at least
the business would be attended with great embarrassment
and inconvenience, if such preliminary arrangements required for their validity and efficacy the formalities essential
to the executed contract. The law distinguishes between
the preliminary contract to make insurance or issue a policy
and the executed contract or policy. And we are not aware
.that in any case, either by usage or the by-law of any'company, or by any judicial decision, it has ever been held essential to the validity of these initial contracts that they should

INSURANCE COMPANY V. COLT.

[Sup. CL.

Opinion of the court.

be attested by the officers and seal of the company. Any
usage or decision to that effect would break up or greatly
impair the business of insurance as transacted by agents of
insurance companies.
In a recent case in the Court of Appeals of Kentucky this
precise question was considered, and its determination was
in accordance with the views wG have expressed.* There
the suit was to enforce a parol contract of insurance made
by the agent of the company, whose charter provided that
all policies or contracts of insurance made by the corporation should be "subscribed by the president, or president
pro tern., and signed and attested by the secretary, and being
so signed and attested," should be binding and obligatory
upon the corporation without its seal, according to the tenor,
extent, and meaning of the policies or contracts. And the
court held that this clause did not require an executory contract for an insurance to be in writing, and said that it knew
of no American charter which did so require, observing that
whilst a policy as an executed contract of insurance was defined to be documentary and authenticated by the underwriter's signature, yet a contract to issue a policy as an
executory agreement to insure might be binding without a
written memorial of it; that no statute of frauds applied,
and that the common law did not require writing.
There is no suggestion that the preliminary contract in
this case was not made in perfect good faith on both sides,
with full knowledge by the agents of the condition, character, and value of the property insured. The credit allowed
for the payment of the premium was an -indulgence which
the agents were authorized by general usage to give. Its
allowance did not impair the preliminary contract; that,
being valid, could have been eurcred in a court of equity
against the company; and having been enforced by the procurement of a policy, an action could have been maintained
upon the instrument; or the court in enforcing the execution of the contract might have entered a decree for the
The.Security Fire Insurance Co. of New York v. The Kentucky Marine
and Fire Insurance Co., 7 Bush, 81.

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE COMPANY

V.

COLT.

569

Opinion of the court.

amount of the insurance. But no resort to a court of equity
for specific performance was necessary in thiscase by reason
of the action of the agents in filling up the blank- policy,
which was duly attested, as they should have done immediately after the preliminary arrangement with the assured.
The agents were authorized to do after the fire that which
they had previously stipulated to do on behalf of the cornpany. The original neglect to fill up the blank policy at
once constituted no valid reason for further delay. If the
policy filled up at once would have bound the compaly, so
must the policy subsequently filled up. The relations of the
parties and the obligations of the company were not changed
by the neglect of the agents. The filling up of the policy
was a voluntary specific performance of the preliminary
agreement. And, when filled up, the policy was by express
stipulation to be held by the agents in their safe for the
assured, and no actual manual transfer was, under these circumstances, essential to perfect the latter's title. It then
became his property, and upon a refusal of the defendant to
surrender it two courses were open to him: either to proceed by action to recover the possession of the policy, or to
sue upon the policy to recover for the loss, and in the latter
case to prove its contents upon fhilure of the company to
produce the instrument on the trial.
In Kohne v. The Insurance Company,* the terms of insurance upon a vessel were agreed npon between the agent of
the plaintiff and the company. For the premium a note was
to be received with approved security. A policy was accordingly filled up by the president in conformity with the
agreement, and notice thereof given to the agent. Three
days afterwards the agent called at the office of the company
to deliver the note and. receive the policy. The company
bad in the meantime heard of the loss of the property insured, a fact which was unknown to either party when the
agreement was made, and refused to deliver the policy,
asserting that the agreement for the insurance was inchoate,
* 1 Washington's Circuit Court, 98.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

COLT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

which it had a right to retract. The assured then brought
trover for the policy, and Mr. Justice Washington, presiding
in the Circuit Court, sustained the action, holding that the
contract was perfected when the pblicy was executed, and,
of course, that the possession of the instrument by the company, after giving notice of its execution, did not impair the
title of the assured.*
In Lightbody v. The North American Insurance Cornpany,t
the agent of the plain.tiff made a contract of insurance of
certain buildings with the agent of the defendant on the 30th
of March, and paid the required premium. On the following morning the buildings were destroyed by fire. The
policy was made out and delivered by the agent on the 21st
.of April following, after the company had refused to pay the
loss; and the court held that the policy took effect by relation from the day of its date, which was the day the premium
was paid and the contract concluded; that it was the manifest intent-of the parties that the contract should operate
from its date, so as to give the plaintiff the same legal remedy which he would have had if the policy had been then
delivered; that the agent pursued his authority in delivering the policy after the loss, and that the delivery bound the
defendants.
In the case of The City of Davenport v. The Peoria Marine
and -FireInsurance Company,j the power of an agent-to issue
a policy after a loss, pursuant to his agreement, was very
fully and ably considered with reference to the principal decisions on the subject. There the agreement for insurance
was made between the parties by their agents on the 20th
of March; on the night of the same day the property was
destroyed by fire; on the following morning the policy was
executed and delivered in accordance with the agreement,
both parties at the time being ignorant of the loss. The
court held that the policy was valid and binding; that the
doctrine that an act done at one time may take effect as of a
* See also Sheldon v. Connecticut Mutual Insurance Co., 25 Connecticut,
207.
:1 17 Iowa, 277.
t 23 Wendell, 18.

Oct. 1874.]

GILLETTE V. BULLARD.
Statement of the case.

prior time, by relation back, was applicable to contracts of
insurance; that the agreement to insure wvas the principal
act, and that the formal execution of the policy might be
concurrent therewith, or subsequent thereto, and when subsequent, and made as of the date of the principal act, took
effect by relation as of that date.
Numerous other authorities to the same purport were
cited on the argument, but we do not deem it necessary to
pursue the subject further. We see no error in the ruling
of the court below, and its judgment must, therefore, be
affirmed; and it is so ordered.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

GILLETTE V. BULLARD.
In an action on the bona given on appeal from the District Court to the
Sutireme Court of the Territory of Montana, the plea was that the defendant had prosecuted a writ of error from the judgment of the Territorial court to the Supreme Court of the United States, and had had
executed his bond which operated as a supersedeas of that judgment,
and that no remittitur or mandate had issued from tbd latter court, and
that the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory still remained
in the court so stayed by the supersedeas bond and the order thereon.
This plea is insufficient in that it does not aver that at the commencement
of this action the appeal was then pending in this court or had ever
been perfected. Nor is the case altered by the Practice Act of Montana,
which enacts,.in its seventy-eighth section, that "in the construction
of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations
shall be liberally construed with a view to substantial justice."

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana.
Bullard, assignee of Marden, sued Gillette upon an appeal
bond. The action was commenced on the 80th of January,
1872. The complaint alleged that on the 15th June, 1868,
Marden recovered a judgment in the District Court of the
Territory against Plaisted & Wheelock, which yet remained
in full force, unreversed and unsatisfied except as thereinafter
ERROR

