Oct. 1873.]

KNAPP V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

117

Statement of the case.

Justices CLIFFORD, D.AVIS, and FIELD dissented from
the judgment rendered, and were of opinion that only' so much
of the judgnment of the Circiiit Court should be reversed as Confirmed the sale made under the decree of the District Court..

KNAPP V.

AI4ILROAD COMPANY.

1. In determining a qudstion whethnr a Circuit Gouith ad errfed in dbnying a
motion to remand, a case removed to it-from the..Stat cdurt, Anid giving
judgment as if the ease had been rightly remove&to it, this court can'not
piy any attention to a certifivate of the clerk of such Circhit Court,
certifying that on the hearing of the ?notion in the Circuit Court certain.
things "appeared," " were proved," or "were admitted," or "agreed
to" by the parties respectively; such ficts not appearing by-bill of exception nor by any case stated. Neither party can gain any advantage
by such a statement.
2. The ict of Congress of March 2d, 1867, allowing either of the parties td
a suit-they being of a certain class described-to remove-it from a
State court into the Circuit Court of the United States, does not. change
the previously existing and settled rules which determine who are to be
regarded as the plaintiff and defendant.
8. Hence, where two persons in one State, trustees, for bondholders, of a
mortgage of a railroad owned by a company in another, foreclosed the
-mortgage, bought in the road in trust for the bondholders, and then
leased it to a citizen of the State to which they thbmselves'belonged,
and then a majority of the bondholders in the State where the original
company was, in pursuance of a statute there, formed themselves ieto a
new corporation, to which -thestatute gave ownership and control of
the -omd, and suit was brought in a State court against the lessee of the
road by the trustees who-had made the leasei held, that the defendant
could not remove the suit from the State court to the Federal court on
tbe ground that it was wholly between the new corporation and the
lessee, and that the trustees wer6 now merely nominal parties; they,.
the trustees, not having been discharged from, or in any way incapacitated from executing their trust, and there having been, in fact, unpaid
bondholders who had not joined in the creation of the new corporation,
and who had yet a right to call onthe trustees to provide for the payment of their bdnds.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Vermont;.
the only question in the-case being whetlier the suit, ofiginally brought in a State court (the County Court for the

KNAPP V. 1RAILROAD

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct;

Statement of the case.

County of Bennington); had been rightly removed to the
Circuit Court, in pursuance of the act of Congress of March
2d, 1867;* one enactme'nt of which is as follows:
5'That where a suit is now pending, or may hereafter be
brought in any State court, in which there is a controversy between a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought and a
citizen of another State, and the matter in dispute exceeds the
sum of $500, exclusive of costs, such citizen of another State,
whether ho be plaintiff or defendant, if he will make and file,
in such State court, an affidavit stating that he has reason to
and does believe that, from prejudice or local influence, he will
not be able to obtain justice in such State court, may, at any
time before the final hearing or trial of the suit, file a petition
in such State court for the removal of the suit into the next
Circuit Court of the United States, to be held in the district
.where the suit is pending," &c.

The case was thus:
The Western Vermont Railroad Company, a corporation
of Vermont, having issued a large amount of bonds, made
a mortgage of the road to Knapp and Briggs, both citizens
of New York, in order to secure the payment. By a fbreclosure, in regular equity form, of that mortgage under the
laws of Vermont, the title of Knapp and Briggs to the railroad became absolute in fee, in trust for the bondholders
under the mortgage. They thereupon leased the railroad
for a term of years to the Troy alid Bostou Railroad, a corporation of New York; and, therefore, according to the decisions of this court, a citizen of the same State wi th Knapp
and Briggs. The lease contained various covenants.
In the meantime, and before the expiration, of the lease, a
new corporation, called the Bennington and Rutland Railroad Company, had been organized by a majority of the bondholdersi in pursuance, as was said, or certain provisions of
a railway act of Vermont. That act, as the new corporation'
conceived, authorized the majority'of the bondholders of any
railroad company pdrchasing the road under a foreclosure,
* 14 Stat. at Large, 658.

Oct. 1873.]

KNAPP V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

119

Statement of the case.

to form a new corporation, which would" own, maintain, and
work the purchased railroad.* It vested the company thug
formed with all the powers, privileges, and franchises of
the original corporation, and empowered it "to proceed in
any mtianner it may deem expedient, either by purchase or
otherwise,.to obtain the title and ownership, or the use and
benefit of the whole estate, and to- satisfy the undivided ihterest or claimis of any other party or parties interested-in'
said railroad; and until the interests of such other parties
shall become vested in such new corporation, such cocp.oration shall be the trustees thereof, and shall be accountable
therebr as teamits in corm'on."
By an act pass ed November 18th, 1864, the corppration
formed under tile Foregoing provisions was declared ontitled
to receive r-ents accruing under leases executed by the trustees who foreclosed.
In this sfatte or things, Knapp and Briggs sued the Troy
and Boston Railroad Company, on the covenants already.
mentioned of their lease to them. The defendants-alleging
that the new corporation was, by the provision of the statute under which it was formed, substituted as trustee of the
other bondholders, in place of Knapp and Briggs, and had
thus become the real party in this suit, anid filing such affidavit of local prejudice as the act of M a'rch 2d, 1867, requires-asked the State -court, in a petition addressed to it,
to remove the cause into the Circuit Court. They contended that the subject-matter of the controversy was wholly
between the Benningtou and Rutland Railroad Company,. a
Vermont corporation, and. themselves, and that KiRapp and
Briggs were now but nominal parties to it, haviig no interest in it.
The petition, with the affidavit annexed to it, together
with th.e original writ, declaration, and pleas, were transmitted to the Circuit Court. The phintiffs, upon these papers, the certified copy of the lease, and the affidavits of
certain persons that there.were outstanding bonds of the
*'Laws 1862, cliap. 28, f

104, 108.

KXNAPP

v.

RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of'the case.

Westdrn Vermont R'tilroad, which had not-been converted
into ot dxchanged for the stock of the Beiningtan and Rutland Railroad Co'impany, nor in any other way paid or discharged, moved the Circuit Court to remand the cause to
the State court for'want of jurisdihtion. This motion the
Circui Oourt denied, and proceeded to hear and adjudge
the case; and after suit gave judgment for the company.
The plaintiff, 'napp, thereupon (Briggs having died) took
this writ of error.
The'transcript of the record, as it came to this court,-presented in regular form the papers on which the order for
removal was founded, and those filed in supplort of the motion to remand. It cointained, in addition, a statement by
the clerk of the court below (not authenticated in any way
by the judge, nor appearing in a bill of ex6eptions), occupying three pages of the transcript, of a number of things
which according to the statement "appeared" or "were
proved" on the hearing of the motion, and of different.
things that were "admitted" or "agreed to" by the p, rties
respectively.
One part of the certificate was thus:
"It further appeared that said Knapp and Briggs had no.interest, directly or indirectly, in the commencement or prosecution of this suit; that they had no control whatever over it;
paid no part of the expenses of its prosecution ; had employed
no counsel; and that said suit was prosecuted solely by, and for
the benefit of, said Bennington and Rutland Railroad Company,
and at its expense; and that the said Bennington and Rutland
Railroad Company had indemnified the said Kna'pp and Briggs
against any liability growing out of said suit. And that Knapp
and Briggs did not know that said suit was to be brought until
after the writ had been served.
"It was admitted by both the plaintiffs and defendants that
the said Bennington and Rutland Railroad Company was organized under the same laws of t-le State of Vermont; that said
organiziatiQn was valid and legal; and that thereby said Ben-:
nington find Rutland Railroad Company became the trustees of
such 'bondholders as had not converted their bonds into the
stock of said Bennington and Rutland Railroad Company; and
of the interests and claims of all other parties in said railroad.

Oct. 1873.]

KNAPP V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

121

Opinion of the court.

"And it was admitted by the plaintiffs that this suit was
brought in their hanies because, as the plaintiff.3 claimed under
the laws of the State of Vermont, and the .rules of pleading
then in forco in that State, it was necessaryjso to comrichco the
same in order to recover on said covenant,.as no action upon a
covenant can be maintained in that State Jin the namo of any
other person than the covenantor, unless where the covenant
is, n terms, assignable, and runs with land, and has been duly
assigned. by the warrantpo d-ecd of the covehantor conveying the
premises to which the covenant applies."

MeSsrs. L. P. Pland and l. J. Phelps, for the plaintiffs in
error; Mr. TV. . Beach, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS. delivered the opinuiou of the court.
In the consideration of the qu'estidn whether or not the
Circuit Court had the,1 right to try the case, we' are confined
to the papers sent up with the order for removal and the
papers filed in support of tie motion to remand. If anything occurred on the hearing, of this motion, which ought
to have °been preserved, it has not been done, fotr there:is
neither a bill of exceptions nor an agreed case in the record.
It is true, th6 clerk makes a recital, running through nearly
three pages of the transcript, of the various matters which,
he says, were proved on'the hearing of this motion, and of
certain stipulations and admissions. These recitals forrm no
part of the record and cannot be considered by us. T116y
are not even authenticated by the signlature of the judge,
nor could they be, to be made available here, except through
the mode of a bill of exceptions.
Although this manner of making entries by the clerk is
improper and tnauthorized, yet the party to the record, in
whose favor they are made cannot gain by them, or the
party agaiilst whom they are made be injured by them. If
either party, in an action at law, is desirous of preserving
the evidence, either at the trial or on a preliminary notion,
in order to raise a question of law upon it, he must ask to
have it incorporated in a bill of exceptions. This is the
only tvay'in ivhibh it can be done, unless the parties choose.

KNAPP V. RAILROAD

COMPANY.

[SLIP.

Ot.

Opinion of the court.

to make an.agreed statement of facts. Neither mode was
adopted in this case, and we are, therefore, without the
means of knowing what evi4enee was introduced on either
side on the motion to remand. The question ofjurisdiction
is, therefore, to be decided on the papers properly in the
record.
The motion of the plaintiffs to remand the case to the
State court was denied, and the Circuit Court rested its decision on the ground that Knapp, the surviving plaintiff,
was only a nominal party to the suit. But it is difficult to
see how a party who makes a contract and is.charged with
duties and responsibilities in connection with it can be
treated, when he sues for the breach of it, otherwise than as
the real plaintiff. In a court of law legal rights alone can
be recognized, and in determining the point of jurisdiction,
we will not make inquiry outside of the case in order to
ascertain whether some other person may not have an equitable interest in the cause of action.
It is conceded on thp argument that Knapp and Briggs
were trustees of a mortgage upon the property of the. Western Vermont Railrdad to secure the bonds of the company,
and that upon a strict foreclosure of the mortgage their title
became absolute in trust for the bondholders. After this
they leased the road to the defendants for a term of years,
and at the expiration of the lease 'brought their suit upon
the covenants of the lease. It would seem that they not
only had the right to sue, but that nobody else could sue.
It is said, however, that before the expiration of the lease a
new corporation, called the Bennington and Rutland Railroad Company, was organized by a majority of the bondholders of the defunct corporation, under the laws of Vermont, who had converted their bonds into stock, and that
the new corporation was, by the provision of the statute
under which it was formed, substituted as trustee for the
other bondliolders in place of the plaintiff in error, and had
thus become the real party in this suit. It is not necessary
to discuss the question whether the statute of Vermont can
bear the construction claimed for it, for manifestly it is not

Oct. 1873.]

KNAPP v. RAILROAD COMPANY.

123

Opinion of the court:

in the power of the State legislature, without the consent of
the cestuis que trust, to substitute a new trustee in place of
the persons named iii the inortgage. This would- impair
the obligation of the contract. The salability of rail.road
bonds depends in no inconsiderable degree upon the character of the persons who are selected to manage the trust. Ifthese persons are of well-known integrity and pecuniary
ability the bonds are more readily sold than if this were not
the case. It is natural that it should be so, and on this
account the trustees usually appointed in this class of mortgages are persons of good reputation in the cities where
these bonds are likely to sell. To change them is to change
the contract in an important particular, and this cannot be
done without the consent of the parties for whose benefit
the trust was created.
The trustees in this case, so far as the record discloses,
' have not been discharged from the obligations of their trust
or divested of their right of action on this lease by judicial
pioceeding or otherwise, nor has the trust in fitct been
closed, for there are bonds outstandin'g which have never
been paid or converted into stock of the new corporation.
It can make no difference whether these bonds are few or
many. The trust is continued until all are paid, unless in
the.rneai time the trustees are discharged.
They are the real plaintiffs in any suit brought to enforce
a claim accruing to them in the execution of their trust, as
much so as executors and administrators are, who also sue
for the benefit of others and not themselves. Like them '
they control the litigation, and are charged with the responsibility of conducting it. The true line of distinction between nominal and real parties to an action is pointed out
by this court in the recent case of Coal Company v. Blatchford.* The court, in commenting on the cases of Browne v.
Strodet and McNutt v. Bland, where the plaintiffs of record
were treated as nominal parties merely, say, "There is no
analogy between those cases and the case at bar- (one of trusteeship). .The nominal plaintiffs in those cases were not
* 11 Wallace,.172.

t5 Cranch, 803.

$2 Howard, 9.

KNAPP V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

trustees, and held nothing fotr the use or benefit of the real
parties in ijnter(st. They could notas is said in clNaltt
v.
Bland, prevent the institution or prosecution of the actions,
or exercise aniy control over them. The justices of the peace
in the oue case and the governor in the other were the mere
conduits thronough whom the law affbrded a remedy to the
parties agg:rieved."
•*The position of ]Knapp as surviving plaintiff is very different. Ile is not a mere passive instrument in the litigation. On the contrary, lie is active in promoting it, and
wouhl be remiss in his duty if lie failed in using all proper
means to brinjg it to a successful issue. As the cause of
action is vested in himrithe court looks to his citizenship in
determining the question ofjurisdietiofi, and not to the residence of those persons who are beneficially interested in the
subject-matter of the litigation. The eases are numerous to
this' point, and it would be a needless work to cite all of
them.*
It may be proper to say that the act of 1867, on the subject of the removal of eases from the State to the Federal
courts, which extends the provisions of the act of 1789, so
-as to allow either the plaintiff or defendant to remove the
cause for the reasons stated, at any time before final judgment, does not change the settled rule that determines who
are to be .regarded as the phiintiff and the defendant. -As
the'plaintiff and the defendant in this action.were both citizens of New York, the Circuit Court had no j'urisdiciion to
entertain it.

with instructions to the Circuit Court
to remand the case to the County Court for the County of
JUDG-MENT REVERSED,

Bennington, in the State of Vermont, from whence it was
improperly removed to the Circuit Court.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY did not sit during the argument,
and tdok no part in this decision.
* Bornafee v. Williams, 3 Howard, 574; Davis v. Gray, 16 Wallace, 220;
-Coal Co. v. Blatchford, supra.

