AMBLER V. "WHIPPLE.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

A MBLER V. WHIPPLE.
1. Where an instrument prepared by one partner for signature by his copartIer, with whom he has fallen out and quarrelled, contains mutual
releases and assignments-each being the consideration of the otherit snould, in order to be binding, be signed by both parties. The fact
that the partner who did not prepare it has taken without objection
from the other an unsigned counterpart after this other partner had
signed the first counterpart, and left it in the hands of a third person to
be delivered only when the unsigned counterpart was signed and delivered, does not give effect to the release.
2. Though bad character, drunkenness, and dishonesty on the part of one
partner may be good grounds for dissolving a partnership, on the application of the other-this other not having known at the time of forming the partnership, these characteristics of his copartner-yet when
before the partnership was formed they were known by the partner not
guilty of them to have existed, they do not authorize such partner himself to treat the partnership as ended, and to take to himself all the
benefits of the joint labor aid joint property.
S. A partner who furnished capital, charged in a case strongly indicating injustice, with half profits in favor of another of inventive genius, and
whom after valuable discoveries lie sought to get rid of, alleging, even
with truth, intemperate habits and bad character.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Ambler filed a bill in the court just named against one
Whipple and a certain Dickerson. A cross-bill and a supplemental bill, made additional pleadings.
The suit grew out of a copartnership between Ambler
and Whipple, formed May 24th, 1869, for the purpose of
experimenting with and bringing to perfection an invention
by which gas, for lighting and heating and other useful purposes, was to be generated frorr petroleum; for obtining a'
patent or patents for the result of their labor, and for the
management of the business after such patent had.been obtained.
The terms of the partnership were clearly stated in a
memorandum of agreement signed by the parties, consisting of nine articles.
It sufficiently appeared from these articles that Ambler

Oct. 1874.]

AmBLER V.

WHIPPLE.

Statement of the case.

was looked upon as the man of inventive genius, and Whipple as the man of business, and the source of the funds necessary to conduct the experiments and place the aftir on a
successful footing.
By these articles it was agreed that if success attenldm
their eflbrts the profits were to be equally divided, after leducting the expenditures which Whipple might find necessary to he advanced. That Whipple might have full control
of his branch of the joint venture,, it was stipulated that
Ambler should assign to him his interest in the patents
which imight issue, and in pursuance of this stipulation
Ambler did execute an assignment of all his interest in the
invention and in the patents which mighitbe granted thereon.
The articles of partnership were dated on the day when the
partnership was formed, May 24th, 1869, and the assignment
the day after.
In view of the present controversy the most important of
these articles of agreement was the sIxTir, which was in the
words following:
"That any and all letters-patent that may be obtained in this
country and all other countries by virtue of said invention, or
by reason of any improvement, or of any modification of' the
same by either party, shall be owned by and between the parties to this agreement in equal shares, to wit, one undivided
half to each, and all proceeds of sale or sales of any and every
kind and character shall be shared, by and between the parties
share and share alike."
The bill alleged that after experimenting three or four
.months a result was obtained and a patent issued in the
name of Whipple and Ambler, No. 92,687, dated July 18th;
1869, and that while the pateitees were experimenting under
this patent and seeking remedies for apparent defects and
for improvements in their invention, the true pi'inciple of
success was developed tbout the 20th or 21st day of August;
that immediately thireafter the defendant, Whipple, conceived the design of excluding the complainant from any
benefit of the invention, and began a course of proceedings
foi the purpose of defrauding him of his rights; that in

AMMBLER V.

WIIIPPLE.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

pursuance of this scheme-he ignored his rights and character
as a joint owner and patentee in the invention ; forcibly debarred him from the workshops where his invention was
used, and denied him all interest in the result of his labors,
and introduced the other defendant, Dickerson, in the absence of the complainant, to the place where the experiments had been made and to the machinery which had been
used, and that in a few days Dickerson applied for a patent,
afterwards issued (No. 95,665), which embodied the invention of Ambler, with only a colorable variation ; that thereafter Whipple and Dickerson entered into a copartnership
and successfully introduiced the invention of the complainant
into use, and by sales of particular States and districts had
received in a short time over $100,000.
This was the substance of the bill of complaint, and the
relief prayed was that Whipple and Dickerson might make
discovery of the sales and profits; that they should be enjoined from the use of the complainant's invention, and that
a decree be made in favor of the complainant for compensation and damages.
The answer of Whipple admitted the original agreement
and assignment, and the issue of the patent to Whipple and
Ambler. It admitted also the partnership with Dickerson
and the issue of the patent to Dickerson. It denied all intent to defraud the complainant, but admitted the sales or
contracts for sale of the Dickerson patent. It denied the
identity of the two patents or the inventions set fbrth in
them. It averred that after a full experiment with the first
patent it proved a total failure, and that the complainant
abandoned all further eflbrt with it and left the city of
Washington, where the experiments had been conducted;
that Dickerson, having been previously engaged in inquiries
in the same direction, perfected an invention of great value
which effected what he and Ambler had failed to do, and
that he thereupon entered into a partnership with Dickerson in regard to that invention, as he had a right to do, and
that in the sales, contracts, or profits growing out of thig
patent, the complainant had no interest whatever.

Oct. 1874.]

AMBLER V.

WHIPPLE.

Statement of the case.

The answer set up as a further defence that the complainant
by his drunkenness, dishonesty, and general bad repute had
rendered a continuance of the partnership impossible; and
that through one Martin the defendant Whipple had purchased of Ambler all his interest in the patent of Whipple
and Ambler, and in the partnership business in which they
It also contained allegations of the
had been engaged.
fact that before the partnership began, the complainant had
been convicted of a felony and was otherwise infhmous-but neither in the answer nor in the cross-bill, where this
matter was repeated, was it slated that this fact cane to the
knowle(tqe of Whipple, the defelant, after he had eitered into
the partnership. It did not deny the allkgation of the bill,
that after the date specified in it the complainant had been
excluded from the workshops.
The cross-bill filed by the defendant Whipple set up a release of Ambler, his improper conduct, the failure of the
experiments with the original invention, and prayed that
Ambler be enjoined from setting up any right or claim
against him on account of said invention, or on account of
the articles of agreement between them. To this Ambler
answered, very fully denying- the release ind denying the
failure of the invention and his abandonment of it.
Dickerson filed a separate answer, but it contained nothing of moment not included in Whipple's.
The supplemental bill averred that since the filing of- the
original bill an additional patent (No. 102,062) had issued
to the defendants; that it was for the same invention, essen-tially as that made by Whipple and Ambler, and patented
to them by patent No. 92,687.
The answer to this bill denied this, and asserted that the
invention patented was one of Whipple and Dickerson.
The testimony occupied a large part of a record of four
hundred and eighteen pages, and was contradictory. Notwithstanding its amount, however, some matters necessary
to the best comprehension of the case in all its parts were
not presented. Thus, though the pleadings referred largely
,to the patent to Whipple and Ambler (No. 92,687), and to

AMBLER V.

WIIIPPLE.

[Sup-. Ct.

Statement of the case.

that one (No. 102,662) to Whipple and Dickerson, mentioned
in the supplemental bill as having been granted, during the
suit, and though the complainant alleged that the latter was
for the same invention, with colorable differences, as the
former, yet neither was set out in the evidence. Certain
leading thcts, however, were made sufficiently clear.
Thus the evidence tended plainly to show that after the
grant of the patent of July 18th, 1869 (No. 92,687), a series
of experiments were conducted through a term of three
months, by Whipple and Ambler, in the same place and
under their joint supervision, which finally resulted in the
discovery of the important and befbre unknown principle,
that the mingled vapors of water, and petroleum, when held
together at the temperature and under the pressure due to
steam, would result in the production of a combustible gas,
if such combination was continued long enough to enable
the chemical reunion to take place. This discovery would
seem to have been developed empirically, and apparently was
not demonstrated in confirmation of an antecedent theory.
In the first experiment of the partners, upon a practical scale,
the endeavor wias made to make a gas front the vapor of
petroleum, evaporated by heat applied on the outside of a
cylinder containing petroleum and fitted with a piston-head
to force the gas, when evolved, through strainers of various
porous materials placed above the cylinder. This pistonhead was very loosely fitted, and steam entered the petroleum
and became mingled with its vapor. After the machine for
this purpose was made, it was soon observed, in experimenting with it, that while it made gas with a loose-fitting
piston, it made little or none when the piston was fitted
tightly, i. e., packed, so as to be steam-tight. This led to
the conclusion that the introduction of steam into the oil
itself wats essential to the proper development of gas in
quantities practically sufficient, and a hole was then bored
in the cylinder, allowing a free flow of steam through the
petroleum, when of a sudden the invention appeared to be
complete. Whipple said to a workman, "I am satisfied
with it. There is a million of dollars in it."

Oct. 1874.]

AMBLER V. WHIPPLE.

Statement.of the case.

There was some conflict of testimony as to the precise
time -atwhich, and the persons by whose orders, this boring
of the piston was done. Four witnesses, including Ambler
and his son, stated that it was by direction of Ambler.
Three (Whipple and two persons still in his employ) stated
that it was by direction of Whipple.
The decisive experiment just abovementioned was made
about the 21st of August, 1869.
There were now certain undisputed facts in the case; facts
referred to by this court, in its opinion, as such.* They
were these:
"The book of accounts of expenditures made by Whipple
and kept under his direction showed that up to that date
Whipple and Ambler's names had beeu used in charging
up the items. Ou the 23d Ambler's name was dropped and
it was all charged to Whipple. Many declarations of his
were proved about this time, that he would make a great
fortune; and it was proved by one Holdeii, with whom Am-bler had beei boat'ding, that up to this tinie Whipple had
paid for Ambler's board without objection, but shortly after
gave him, Holden, notice that lie would do so no longer. It
appeared from Dickerson's supplemental and amended answer that in the months of June and July Whipple was in
Chicago and tried to interest him in the matter in which he
and Ambler were engaged. It was also shown that on the
3d of September, within less than two weeks after the pur1ose of Whipple to get rid of Ambler was alleged to have
been fully conceived, Dickerson, who was not a man of science, but a person having money, made his appearance in
Washington, coming from Chicago, and was taken by Whipple to the shop where the recent experiment had been made.
Thiswas in the absence of Ambler from the city. Precisely
what took place between Whipple and Dickerson was no't
shown by the testimony. That was to be judged of by the
results which followed.
"The first of thlese was that, on the 16th day of September,
* Infra, pp. 558, 559.

AMBLER V. WHrPPLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

only thirteen days after his first sight of the machinery in
the workshops, and his first interview in Washington with
Whipple, Mr. Dickerson filed in the Patent Office an application for a patent, the specification and claims of which
were so nearly like those of Ambler and Whipple, and so
nearly embodied the results of their experiments as to leave
little doubt that it originated in the Whipple-Anibler experiments, however much it might differ in some particulars
from their patent. This application was pressed so successfully that a patent was issued on it to Dickerson and Whippie on the 12th of October. In the meantime Dickerson and
Whipple had entered into a partnership in the matter, and
Ambler was excluded from all control."
These facts, as already said, were undisputed, and there was
much other testimony of a direct character tending to prove
the purpose of Whipple to put Ambler wholly aside and out
of the way, and that with this purpose he went after Dickerson, an old acquaintance of his own, and that with this purpose Dickerson came to Washington.
The testimony was voluminous. The whole case involving chiefly questions of intent ai'd of fact, and thus ministering no great deal anywhere to juridical science, the results
of it, as they appeared to the reporter and as they were assumed by the court, are alone given.
It appeared sufficiently plain that Ambler was a man of
intemperate habits, not at all constantly affected by liquor,
but getting into drunken debauches from time to time, and,
when in that state especially, given to lying and to various
degraded habits.
The evidence showed, however, that
Whipple had known him since 1864, five years before the
partnership between him and Ambler was formed, and that
the habits were generally known; known in fact by almost
everybody who knew Ambler at all. They knew him to be
a map of genius, with both the weaknesses and thie vices in
a full measure by which genius is sometimes disfigured.
.During a part of the month of August it seemed that he
left Washington for eight or ten days. When he came
home Wh ipple would not allow him to enter the workshops.

Oct. 1874.]

AMBLER V.

WHIPPLE.

Statement of the case.

A principal defence of the defendants was the alleged
release by Ambler.
The original of the alleged release was in the possession
of a per~son named Martin, already referred to. It was
dated September 24th, 1869.
It recited the issuing of the patent No..92,687, the assignment of it to Whipple, the articles of partnersbip, and that
a disagrreement existed between Ambler and WIipple in
regard to the construction of the invention; that Ambler
was anxious to be released from his obligations to IVWhipple,
and was willing to convey all his.interest in the invention to
Whipple, and then declared that in consideration of the full
disclarge of $1000 due by Aqibler to Whipple, Ambler sold
and conveyed all his interest in the invention, an(l in all improvernelts made, or which might be made by Whipple;
and that Whipple released Ambler from all obligation on
acconnt of the contract, and from the payment of the $1000.
Martin stated that lie had got the papier from Whiipple at
the request of Ambler; that the paper was drawn by him,
Martin, at Whipple's request, and signed by Whipple on
the 24th of September, 1869, the'day of its date; that after
getting the paper lie could not find Ambler for some time,
though he had called at his lodgings and written a letter,
&c. However, on the 24th of October he saw Ambler. The
witness proceeded:
"Ambler introduced the subject of the release from Whipple
to him,,and stated that his wife objected to his signing it, and
said he ought to hold on; 'But,' said he, II differ in opinion
with her, and I will sign the agreement.'

.

.

I handed Mr.

Ambler the original of the contract, in my own writing, which
was signed by Mr. Whipple and witnessed by Mr. Lombard and
myself, and he read the same. I then handed him the duplicate
copy, which was to be signed by himself. He made no objection
to the contract, put the duplicate in his pocket, said he would
take it with. him to Washington, would there execute it and
hand it to Mr. Whipple, and that I might deliver the original to
him after he delivered the copy. I still hold the original of said
contract for Mr. Ambler; will deliver it to him as soon as the

AMBLER V. WHIPPLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

duplicate is signed and delivered to myself or Mr.Wlipple. I
would not give Mr.. Ambler the original because signed by Mr.
Whipple; and I was instructed not to give it to him until the
other was signed. I tendered it to him on Sunday, October
24th, at his rooms at his hotel."
The testimony of Martin showed that he had undertaken,
in his conversations with Ambler and while negotiations
were going on about the arrangement set out-in the paper
dated 24th of September, 1869, and signed by Whipple but
not by Ambler, to engage that Whipple should release the
$1000 recited in the'paper as having been due by Ambler to
Whipple, and that Whipple did afterwards release the said
$1000.
The witness gave a very disparaging account of Ambler's
early and long-continued habits of intemperance, and of the
great efforts which he had made to reform him. He testified also to his conviction for crime, though it appeared that
after his discharge from prison the witness took an interest
with him in a patent, offered by Ambler to him by way of
gratitude.
The following, with similar testimony, much too long to be
set out in a case involving chiefly questions of fact, was relied on to show that-Martin was really the agent of Whipple:
' QUESTION.

What time did you first make kfr. Whipple's ac-

quaintance?
"ANSWER.
"QUESTION.

In the spring of 1864.
Hliad you a great deal to do with Whipple.?

"ANSWER. Yes, sir.
"QUESTION.

As much mixed with him as with Ambler.

"ANsWER. No, sir; not quite. It was a different kind of
mixing.
" QUESTION. You said that in the course of conversation with

Ambler, you agreed that Whipple should discharge him?
"ANSWER.

Yes, sir."

Ambler was indebted, it seemed, to the witness.
Ambler's own account of the matter was:
"On thje 24th of October, 1869, 'I met Mr. Martin, and he told

Oct. 1874.]

AMBLER

V. WHIPPLE.

Opinion of the court.

me that he had prepared an assignment of my interest to Mr.

Whipple for, he said, a part consideration of $1000. I took the
assignment -nd looked at it. Said I, 'Shall I take this with me?'
He replied, 'Yes, if you choose.' ' I do not wish,' said he, 'to
press this case upon you at all; exercise your own judgment.'
Said I, 'Mr. Martin, I will take it to Washington and show it to
my wife.' I did not say, nor intimate, that I would sign it."
The court below dismissed the bill and the complainant
took this appeal.
Messrs. G. TV. Paseliall and B.. Mason, for the appellant;
Mr. J..A. Ballestier, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opijlion of the court.
It is to be observed that neither party prays for a dissolution of the partnership. Indeed, the bill and cross-bill, and
the answers to both, proceed upon. principles which do not
recognize the partnership as existing. The complainant
seems to imply that by reason of Whipple's course of conduct he is remitted to all his rights as the inventor, and
claims that being the sole inventor of the successful machine
he is entitled to all the benefit of it. Whipple assumes that
by his purchase from Ambler, and Ambler's misconduct,
that the partnership has been dissolved, and he has succeeded to all its rights, if they are of any value.
The testimony is voluminous and contradictory. In the.
view we shall take of the case, while the decision will mainly
turn on these questions of fact, we shall only state the effect
which the testimony has had upon our minds without referring to it in detail.
1. If the complainant really released or sold his interest
in the partnership business, or in the patent of Whipple and
Ambler, his case is at an end, and we will, therefore, consider that question first.
The instrument of writing dated September 24th, 1869; is
supposed to have that effect. There is no doubt that the
language of the instrument* is sufficient for the purpose
* Quoted, supra, p. 55.-R 1R.

AMBLER V. WHIPPLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

for which it was intended, but it wants the signature of
Ambler. Nor is it pretended that he ever signed it or any
copy of it. It is clea'ly on its face a paper which requires
the signature of both parties to malke it binding on either.
The releases and assignments are mutual, and each is the
consideration of the other, and it requires no great penetration to see that it was drawn in the interest of Whipple, who
signed it, and not in the interest of Ambler, who did not
sign it.
But it is argued that the paper was procured from Whipple by Martin, the agent of Ambler, at Ambler's request,
and was signed by Whipple and delivered to Martin ; that
Martin delivered it to Ambler, who received a copg of it
without objection, and promised to sign it. Admitting- all
this to be true, it is very clear that both parties intended to
have a written instrument signed by each as the evidence
of any contract they might make on that subject, and neither
considered any contraict concluded until it was fully executed. Under these circumstances Ambler had a right to
decline to sign the paper, and until he signed he was not
bound by it. It was not drawn by him, nor at his dictation.
It was first signed by Whipple, and drawn up by him or in
his presence, and made to suit his purposes. It is idle to
say that because Ambler took a copy of it from Martin to
examine he became a party to it, though he never signed it.
Further, we are of opinion, notwithstanding Martin's declaration that he acted on Ambler's suggestion, that he was
throughout the whole affair acting for Whipple, and governed solely by his interest. This transaction does not, in
our opinion, establish any release or transfer of Ambler's
interest in the partnership concern.
2. Nor is there any such evidence of abandonment of the
enterprise on the part of Ambler as to justify the court in
holding that he had lost or forfeited his rights in the venture.
It is true that about the middle of August he left Washington Oity for a week or two, but whe.n he returned he found
himself excluded from the workshops and from all participation in Whipple's plans, and it seems probable he was by

Oct. 1874.]

AMBLER V. WHIPPLE.

Opinion of the court.

Whipple's authority forbidden to go there before be left the
city. It is unreasonable to call this a voluntary abandonment of the enterprise.
3. What weight would be given to the charges of bad
character, drunkenness, and dishonesty in a suit by Whipple
to dissolve the partnership we need not here state: If all
that is charged were proved in such a suit it would make a
strong case for relief, on such terms as equity might impose
for the protection of both parties. fBut they did not authorize Whipple, of his own motion, to treat the partnership as
ended and take to himself all the benefits of their joint labors
andjoint property. It seems also to be a fairinference from
the pleadings and other circunistances that Whipple must
have known of Ambler's conviction for felony before he entered into the agreement with him.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the case shows nothing
which deprives Ambler of his rights under the original contract with Whipple.
4. We are also of opinion that Whipple is chargeable as
trustee for Ambler with o~e-half of all that has been realized
or may be realized from the use of the patent to Whipple
and Ambler and the patent to Whipple and Dickerson.
This conclusion we rest upon the si:hth article of the agreement between Whipple and Ambler,* This article provides
that any improvement or modification of the invention which
may be made by either party, in this country or any'other,
for which a patent may be obtained, shall enure to the joint
befiefit of both. In the peculiarly. close and confidential
relation which the parties assumed toward each other in
regard to an invention which both understood to be imperfect, undeveloped, and the subject of future trial and experiment, this provision was eminently wise and necessary. And
since Whipple was, by the assignment of Ambler, invested
with the legal title of the patent and chief conduct of the
affairs of the partnership, he was under a peculiar obligation
of good faith as both partner and trustee 6f Ambler.
* Quoted, supra,p. 547.-RL'.

AMBLER V.

WHIPPLE.

[Sup. Cr:

Opinion of the court.

Notwithstanding the bills, cross-bills, and supplemental
bills set bp both by the patent to Whipple and Ambler and
the patent to Whipple and Dickerson, No. 95,665, and another issued to them pending the suit, No. 102,652, which
are charged by Ambler to be all covered by his invention,
and by the others to be totally distinct, none of these patents
are found in the record. It is impossible, therefore, for this
court to give any conclusii'e opinion or judgment as to how
far they are identical, or how far there may be distinctive
features, under which the whole or some part of the two
latter ptents might be sustained. We base our decree on
other principles.
We are satisfied, from the testinmony in the case, that the
results of the experiments conducted by Ambler and Whipple in their joint enterprise developed the practicability of
success in obtaining the object of their pursuit; that these
experinents disclosed the Ihct that while they had mainly
relied on the effect of heat by steam, applied to petroleum
indirectly by encompassing the vessel in which the petroleum
was, by the steam. let into an outer chamber, it was found
that it was necessary to introduce the steam into the vessel,
thus bringing it into direct contact with the petroleum.
Whether Ambler had seen this as clearly as Whipple is not
very. well or satisfacto/iiy shown. But it is proved to our
entii-e satisfaction thut when Whipple saw this point, and
that thre'ugh it success was within his reach, he immediately
recognized it8 great value. This experiment was made at
the same shops, with the same machines, and in the same
pursuit, which for three months had engaged the active energies of both Ambler and Whipple. The weight of evidence
is that Ambler was present and assisting, but this is denied
by other witnesses.
What is clear to us is that as soom as Whipple recognized
the value of this discovery he made up his mind to be rid
of Ambler.
The undisputed facts of thie case,* taken in connection
See them set out, supra, pp. 551, 552.-REP.

Oct. 1874.]

AMBLER V.

WHIPPLE.

Opinion of the court.

with much other testimony of a direct character, convince
us that Whipple, in violation of his trust to Amble', and in
fraud of his rights, deliberately entered upon a scheme by
which Ambler was to be deprived of the benefits resulting
from success in their joint experiments. That in pursuit of
this scheme he called in Dickersonj who, witlhout-having
invented anything, and in a remarkably short space of time,
procured letters-patent to issue to himself and Whipple
which embraced the results of Amb'ler's discoveries and ex-.
periments, whether they embraced anything else or not.
For all that has come to Whipple's hands, for all that is
included in. the patents to him and'Dickerson, he is, uider
the terms of the sixth article of the agreement, a trustee for
Ambler to the extent of one-half, and must be so charged
and held to account in this proceeding.
. As to Dickerson, while he is not a trustee under that
article, we are of opinion that he has so tr knowingly connected himself with and aided in the fraud on Ambler that
he cannot resist Ambler's right to an undivided halfof both
the patents to Dickerson and Whipple, and of the profits
made or to be made Out of them. What rights or remedies
he may have against Whipple we do not decide.
The result of these views is that the decree of the Supreme Cotrt of the District must be reversed; that a decree
must be entered in that court declaring Whipple and Dickerson to hold in trust for.the benefit of Ambler to the extent
of one-half the two patents issued to them, mentioned in the
pleadings as 95,665 and 102,662; that an accounting be-had
as to the profits realized by them, or either of them, from
the use or sale, or otherwise, arising from said pateuts, and
for such other and further pyroceedings as may be
IN CON ORMITY TO THIS OPIIT1ON.

