MCPHAUL v. LAP8LEY.[

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

great loss to the public treasury and to great public embarrassment.*
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the cause remanded with direc-

tions to
ISSUE A NEW VENIRE.

MCPHAUL v. LAPSLEY.
1. An affidavit filed under the act of the legislature of Texas, approved May
13th, 1846,-requiring an affidavit as to the fraudulent character of an
instrument of writing, properly recorded, and filed among thp'papers of
the cause, the purpose of requiring the affidavit being to relieve the
party meaning to offer-the instrument introduced from the burden, after
he has filed it among the papers in the cause, of proving its execution,
unless the other side swear that it is a forgery-is properly rejected
when not filed within the time prescribed by the act.
2. A. testimonio executed, in 1832, by the proper Mexican authorities, of a
power of attorney for the conveyance of lands, is within the recording
acts of Texas.
3. Such a testimonio, under Spanish law,.and the adjudications of the Supreme Court of Texas, is considered as a second original, and of equal
validity with the first, and is admissible in evidence though not recorded.
4. Evidence of a pers on who was not the keeper of the archives, nor in any
way officially connected with the office to which they belonged, and
which was offered to prove that such a testimonio was not a copy of the
protocol (this not being produced), though the witness had in his hand
photographs of certain pages of the protocol which did conform in
other respects than that of signature and date with the testimonio, and
when it was not offered to follow the evidence up in any way, held prop-.
erly rejected; the testimonio being more than forty years old, much
litigation having existed.on .the title made under it; it never having
been previously questioned ; it haiing been received in a former case,
by this pourt, as valid, and important rights having grown up on the
faith of it; and the instrument being now questioned, not by the parties
to it, but b; a defendant setting up a hostile title which he failed to
establish.

ERROR to the Circuit Court- for the Western District of
Texas; the case being thus:
* Regina v. Edwards, 9 Exchequer, 50.

Oct. 1873.]

MOPHAUL v. LAPSLE..
Statement of the case.

The State of Texas has made a succession of statutes, on
the subject of rebording instruments,.felating to.the titles
of real estate. They Are thus:
1. An act of 20th December, 1836, after requiring all persons who claim lands, by deed, lien,'or any other color of

title, to record their instruments of title in the clerk's office
of the county where the land lies within twelve Aionthsfromn the
1st April, makes it, by the thirty-fifth section, txe duty of the.
clerk to record all deeds, conveyances, mortgages, and other
liens, and all othdr instrumnts in writing, provided that one
of the witnesses shall swear to the signature of the signer,or
he, himself, shall acknowledge the same;
The fortieth section enacts that no deed, conveyance, lien,'
or other instruments respecting lan ds, shall take effect as to
third persons, until proved ahd recorded.
2. An act of 10th May, 1838, repealed the limitation.of twelve
months, in the act of 1836, just referred to.
These acts are cited by the Supreme Court of Texas, in
Guilbeau v,Mays;* with the statement that subsequent legislationmhad not materially changed them.
The, subsequent legislation is thus:
3. An act of Jdnuary 19th; 1839, makes it the duty of
"county clerks to record all," deeds, conveyances, mortgages,
and other lie s affecting the title to land; provided that one
of the subscTibing witnesses shall swear to the signature of
"the-signer,or h;, himself, shall acknowledge the samebefore
the clerk," &c. All laws inconflict are repealed.
The act further provides in its second section'(and the
provision bears 9pecially upon this case), thai "copies of all
deeds, &c., when the originals remain in the public archives, and
wern executed in conformity with the laws, Jisting at these dates,
duly certified by the proper offwer, shall be admitted to record where
the land lies."
4.' An act of May 12th, 1846, makes clerks of the county
court recording officers for their several counties.
The fourth section make it their duty to record "all
-*-15 Text, 414.

MCPHAUL v. LAPSLEY[.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

deeds, mortgages, conveyances, deeds of trust, bonds, covenants, defeasances, or o~her instruments of writing of and concerning any lands."
'The fth section makes similar provision for marriage
contracts, powers of attorney, and official bonds.
The seventh section directs the acknQwledgment to be
made "by the grantoror person who executed the instrument
in wi'iting.'
The eighth section provides for proof being made by the
subscribing witnesses.
The ninth section enacts that when the witnesses are dead,
or.their residence unknown, or when they reside out of the
State, the instrument may be p.roved by evidence of the
handw'riting of the "grantor on person who executed the same,
and of one of the subscribing witnesses; and this proof is
to be made by 'two or more disinterested witnesses.'"
This act was to take effect July, 1846, and all prior laws
in conflict with it are repealed.
In A.D. 1858, commenting on the fourth section, above
cited, as descriptive of the instruments to be recorded, the
Supreme Court of Texas, in Henderson v. Pilgrim,* say:
"It is the obvious policy to require all instruments concerning
land to be recorded in the proper county."
And the court, therefore, held that an assignment of a mortgage was within the provision of the act.
In the same' year it was held that a covenantfor title, though
a mere executory contract, was within the law.t
So far as to the recording acts.
Another statute, that of May 13th, 1846,1 having for its
frequent effect to change the burden of proof as existing at
common law, is as follows:
"Every instrument in writing (properly recorded), shall be
admitted as evidence without the necessity of proving its execution,
vr6vided that the party who wishes to give it in evidence shall
22 Texas, 476.
t Secrest v.Jones, 21 Texas, 1383.
Section 90. Referred to in Hanric v. Barton, 16 Wallace, 166.

Oct. 1873.]

McPIIAUL V.

TAPSLEY.

Stateinent of-the case.

file the same among the papers of the suit three days before
the trial, and give notice to the oppo.5ite, party, 6f such filing,

and unless such opposite party, or some other person for him, shall
within one day after such notice, file an affidavit stating that he
believes such instrument to be forged."

With the different statutes about recording instruments
of title, and this last-quoted act-as to the effect, in the ratte
of evidetce, of filing among the papers of the suit of any
,instrument "properly recorded," Lapsley, on the 31st.of
Mar~b, 1863, brought trespass to try title against N.,-A.
McPl~aul and eiqht other persons, in -the court below, to recover
possession of eleven leagues of land described.
The plaintiff claimed under a power of attorney, said to
have been executed by Thomas Vega, Jos6 Maria Aguerre,
and Rafael Aguerre, to Samuel May Williams, dated the 5th
of May, 1832.
McPhaul answered, pleading an outstanding title to one
league in a certain Fleming, but junior in date to the title
of the plaintiff, which he mentioned had been perfected, as
he alleged, by a title from Thomas de la Vega.
Appended to McPhaul's answer was th'e statement of de
la Vega that be had sold this league, in 1860, to McPhaul;
and that this was within the eleven leagues claimed by Lapsley, and he asked to be made a party to defend his title
warranty, and prayed for a decree confirming the title tQ
said defendants.
This applicationwas never allowed by the court.

Subsequently to this, on the' 16th January, 1872, Lapsley
filed among the papers of the cause (giving notice to the
other side, on thesame 16th, that he had done so), a paper
th us-described: "A testimonio of a power of attorney from Thomas Fega,
Jos6 Maria Aguerre, and Rafael Aguerre, to Samuel May Wil
liams, dated the. 5th of May, 1832, the said testimonio being
executed by Juan Gonzales, with his proper attesting witnesses,
and duly recorded in the counties of- Falls and McLennan,
after being duly'proved."

The reader not familiar 'ith the Spanish law, prevale,

MCP-HAUL

V.

LAPSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

until 1836, in what. is now the State of Texas-a region
till that date a portion of Mexico, itself formerly a -colony of
Spain-may not know exactly what a testimonio is., For
any 'such it may be stated that in Spain an'd her colonies,
deeds, 'contracts, and powers of attorney are executed before
a regidor, a public officer, a sort of notary or alderman, exeroising quasi judicial power. The parties appear before
him accomphnied by a certain number of their neighb6rs as
"instrumental witnesses." The parties state the matters
betw eep them. The officer makes a minute of the te'ms
stated. He then enters in a book the formal agreejnent.
This i tho protocol. He then furnishes to the party in interest asimilar document. This is a testimonio.
'What common-law lawyers would call the contract itself,
but what lawyers of Spain and her colonies call the protocol
bf the contract, remains with the notary apud acta; like
.the original of a will- in a surrogate's office. The testimonio is delivered to the parties, as the surrogate gives letters testamentary preceded by a transcript of the will.
The so-called testimonio,/±led in this case,,was in Spanish,
and when translated into Anglish ran thus:
"Second seal two reals f~r thd.two years 1832 and 1833.
"In the city of Leona Vicaria,'on the 5th day of the month of
May, in the year .1832, before me, citizen Juan Gonzales, regidor
(alderman) of the honorable council of this city, and acting alcadi
(mayor) therein, and in its jurisdiction, during the indisposition
of the proper officer who officiates in the treasurer's office, no
secretary being allowed him according to the terms of the law,
the presence of the witnesses who will be named at the
and ijclose hereof, personally appeared citizens Dr. Jos6 Maria Aguerre,
Thomas Vega, and Rafael Aguerre, residents of this city, well
known to me, and declared that, in the most complete form
which may be required by law, they grant, give over, and conc~de unto Mr. Samuel May Williams, a resident of the city of
Austin; full power, as much as'may be* required and as may be
necessary in law, espec%lly, in order that in the names of these
appearers, and in rspresentation of their own persons, rights,
and actibns, o far as is allowed by the colonization law of the

Oct. 1873.]

MOPHAUL v. LAPSLnY.
Statement of the case.

24th March, 1825, -he may be able to proceed, and may proceed according to his judgment, to the sales of the tracts of
land which, on the 14th June, 1830, the -supreme goverr'ok of"
this State granted to them, the appearers."
The document having given the power of sale, concluded.
thus:
"Thus have they granted and signed it in presence of these
witnesses, citizens Antonio Espinosa, Rafael de Leon, and Fran,cisco de la Fuente, Gonzales, residents of this city.
THOMAS VEGA,
JOSE MA. AGUERRE,
RAFAEL AGUERRE.

"I attest:
JUAN GONZALES.

"Copy from the original, with which it agrees, the day of its
execution; given on two ' useful' pages of paper, of the second
stamp, conformable to law. All of which I, the undersigned
judge, officiating .with those assisting me according to law,
hereby attest.
"JUAN GONZALES.

"!Witnesses:
JosE NAZO ORTIZ,

.J. M. -ORAL."

Annexed to the testimonio were certain affidavits, on
which it was recorded, in McLennan County, as shown by
the certificate of the proper officer, on 7th September, 1856
(twenty years after its date), and again in same county, on
22d September, 1858.
In Falls County, 6th October, 1859.
In Williamson County, 15th October, 1859.
Amo'ng the affidavits on the testimonio was one by J. N.
Seguin, made on 3d September, 1856, proving the'handwriting of Juan Gonzales, by whom thp testimonio or copy was
made, and of his assisting -witnesses, Moral abd Ortiz, and
that these parties, if living, were residents of Saltillo, inthe
State of Cofhuila.
There was also an affidavit from Gonzales himself, riade
on the 13th July, 1857, testifying that the testimonio was

MCPHAUL, v. LAPSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

executed by him, At th.e personal request of Jose Maria
Aguerre,Rafael Aguerre, and Thomas Vega, and in their
presence; t hait the signature "Juan Gonzales" is his genuine signature, officially signed as regidor of the corporationof Saltillo, and second'alcalde in turn, in thd year 1832, as expressed therein; aid that the Signatures of Ortiz and Moral,
who sigijed ds assisting.-witnesses, in his presence, were
their genuine'siguatures; that ThIonias de ]a; Vega executed
a certain other power of ,attorney before him to said S. M.
Williams, on 28th April, 1832, and that the said Thomas
Vega, who was a party to this testimonio, was one and the
same person; that he knew of no other Thomas Vega, or
Thomas dd la Vega, in the city of Saltillo, or any other part
of Mexico.
'Through a deed made on.this power of attorney; and other,
conveyances imt disputdd, the plaintiff wade a title apparontly regular, if th6 power was genuine.
Previous to the trial, whieh came on, February 5th, 1872,
all the'defendants except McPhaul were, with the plaintiff's
consent, dismissed.
On the 3d of February, while the case was a trying, a certain Simon 'Mussina, representing himself to be "attorney
of Thomas de a Vega," filed an tiffidavit that the testimonio
was, " as he voerily believed, a forged instrument."
The plaintiff moved to strike this affidavit from the files
as made out of season; the statute requiring it should be
made wittiin- one day after notice of filing the document
sought to be used, and the affidavit not having been made
until many days afte'riwards.
This motion the court granted.
The testimonio, the-efore, stood- without any affidavit
against its genuineness, and IF "properly recorded," iwas entitled, under the already quoted. act of May 13th, 1846, to.
be used "without the necessity of provingits executiQn."
But the question whether it was "properly recorded" remained.
On the trial the plaintiff, assuming, of course, that it was,
offered it in evidence without proof of its execution ; and

Oct. 1873.]

MCPHAUL V. LAPSLEY.
Statement of the case.

,the court, under the defendant's exception, received it.
Being thus in evidence, the defendant offered one T. J.
Walker; to show that it was a forgery. .,The bill of exceptions said:
"Upon the trial, &c., the defendant introdifeed in evidence a
witness, T. J. Walker, and offered to show the jury that in the
year 1868 he went from Austin, T.exas, to the city of Saltillo,
Mexico, formerly called Leona Vicario, in Coahuila, and that.he
carefully examined the book of'protocols in the office of the seeretary of the ayuntamiento of the said Saltillo, and that he found
in the book of protocols for the years 1832, 1833, an original
protocol or matrix of a power of- attorney in the Spanish language, of date May 5th, 1832, from Josi MariaAguerre to Samuel
May Williams. giving said Williams the power to sell'the land
which the government had .granted to Thomas de la Vega and
Rafael de Aguerre and Jos6 Maria do Aguerre, to wit, eleven
I agucs each ; that said proto.col or original has not to it the signa",.:'e or pretence of the signature of any one or person except Josi
"ia de Aguerre and Juan Gonzales; that the name of neither
i zel de Aguerre or Thomas de la Vega, nor any witnesses, is found
, said protocol or original he examined; that in said protocol
book aforesaid, and of date April 28th, 1832, he found an original
protocol'of a power of attorney, signed by Jos6 Maria de Aguirre
or Aguerre, and Thomas de la Yega and Juan Gonzales, and with
assisting witnesses Ortiz and Moral; that this power is to Samuel
M. Williams; and that in said book of protocols, from the power
of attorney of the 27th of April, 1832, to the power of the 5th
day of May, 1832, inclusive, there were seven leaves and no visibl6 evidence of any mutilation of the book; that there are no
protocols of any power of 6ttorney from either Maria deAguirre
or Aguerre, or Thomas de laVega, to any one in said seven leaves,
except the two named above; that, he has in his hands, now in
court, photographic copies of the said seven leaves of the said
book, which show exactly what he states."
To the admiissibility of these facts in evidence thb plaintiff objected, and the court sustained the objection, to which
ruling the defendant excepted.
The plaintiff derived title, under the power already mentioned to Samuel.May Williams, from a person who in some

MCPHAUL V. LAPSLEY.

S
, [Sup.

Ot.I

Statement of the case.

parts ofhis title-papers was istyled Thomas Vega and'someti~ne's Thomas de la Vega.
Th. it appearedThat when Williams, as attorney,, applied in 1833, for a
title of personal possession, he described himself as "attorney of Jose&Maria Aguerre, Rafael Aguerre, and Thomas
Vega,, inbabitants of the town of Leona Vicaria ;"
That when Lesassier, alcaide of the town, granted the title,
he .esdribed the eleven leagues as " denounded by the attorney 9f Thom~as de la Vega;"
,That when.the surveyor made his -return, he said he'had
executed ik ' by virtue of your decree for the attorney of
Tbomas de la Vega;"
That iii the petition of Jos6 Maria Aguerre he declared it
made "on his own behalf, and atso in the name of Thomas
Vega aid Rafael Aguerre;"
That when, in conformity to this petition, Lesassier made
his decree, he described it as nade in favor of " Jos6 Maria
Aguerre, Rafael Aguerre, and: Thomas de la'Vega."
The;court charged that the title set up by the defendant
in Fleming could not defeat the plaintiffs, because it was
junior in date to it, and that they*would fild for the plaintiff unless they believed from the evidence that the testimonio was, a forgdry; that the registration was only primd
facie evidence of its genuineness, and that the fact that the
court -had admitted the testimonio in evidence.did not preclude the defendant from showing that it was forged, and that
if,
the jury believed that'Thomas de la Vega never did sign
it they would reject it; that there was no-evidence of forgery
,except the difference in the name'Thomas Vega and Thomas
de ]a Vega; that the testimonio, "the original and:copy of
which" vas bdfore them:, was evidence for their consideration; that it was not necessary that the signature of,Thomas
de'la'Vega should be.in his own proper handwriting on the
testimonio-before the jury, and that if Thomas de la Vega did
sign .the'original of it in -the office- at Saltillo then the testimonlio given in evidence; with a proof of a conveyance-by
Williams, under it,-would divest Vega of his lands.

Oct.' 1873.]

•MOPHAUIL- v. LAMMEY

278

Statementof the case.

.The defendant asked the curt to charg-'
1. That the jury must'disregard, the paper purporting to'
be a testimonio;
2. That unless they. believed that the original grant'e of
the. land and the person making'the instrument (if it ever
was made) purporting to be a power 'of attorney, were 5ne
and the same person-, they must disregard it;
3. That unless they believed as last abovementioned,they
must find for the defendait;.
The court refused the.charge first ab'Q.e requested, and
gave the other two, with the qualificatioi that if thejiry.bez
.lieved, from either the documentary or ordl testim.6ny,'tbt'
the original grantee was knowin indi'fferently-by the. name of
Thomas Vega and Thomas de la Vega, the presumption was
that he was the person who igned the pow'er; and'that the
j.uiy would-so consider, unless satisfied otherwise from other
evidence.
'erdict and judgment having gpne for the plaintiff, the.
defendant brought th6 case here; the writ -of error-being'i
thie name of the whole nine'originalidefendants; all of whom,
as already said, except McPhaul, had bee.n with the plaiitiff's
asse't dismissed from the case before trial.
."An act to further the administration of'justice," passed,
June'l, 1872,*- enacts,
"That the. Supreme Court may, at.any time, in its discretibn
and upon such terms as it may'dgem just, and where the defect
has not injured and the amepdment will not prejudice 'the de-'
fendant in error, allow an amendment. of a writ of error when
there is a mistake in the teste . . . and in all other particulars
of form."
-'In the assignments of error, it was alleged for error that
the court erred, among other ways'1. In admitting the teftimonio in evidence.
2. In excluding the testimony of 'Walker.
3. in charging that ihe admissioni in evidence of the tes.
.timonio was prim'facie evidence of its genuineness;
* 17 Stat. at Large, 196,
'VOL.

xX.

18

8:

[Sup. Ct.

M PHAUL v). LAPSLEY.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Ai~d further', that there was before them no evidence that
the testimonio was not genuine, except the evidence of difference of name;
And in impr~operly withdrawing the mind of the'jury from
considering the want of genuineness of the testimonio from
a failure of the plaintiff to show The existence of or the genuineness of any protocol at Saltillo.
. Durant, for the plaintiff in error:
1. The court erred in receiving the testitnonio in evidence, under
the act of May 13th, 1846. That act, by which written instruments on bqing filed in a cause prove themselves, applies
onl to those instruments whiich are "properly recorded."
Now, a tistimonio is but a copy; an ex parte copy, made
without any opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses as
to its authenticity. In the present case the copy purports
tb be taken from the original on the day of its date (5th May,
1832). It was -afterwards recorded in different counties;
but recorded when afterwards? Not until twenty-four,
twenty-six, and twenty-seven years afterwards.
If a registration of a document were provided for by
previous laws (and unless it was so plainly the testimonio
did not by filing prove itself), no document recorded until
so very far from the proper time was "properly recorded."
Further: the law of Texas providing for the registration
of powers of attorney* says they "shall be proved or acknowledged according to law." No such proof or acknowledg:
ment could be made as to the testimonio, for it wvas without
any actual signature of De ]a Vega to it. If Thomas Vega
was the name, that name was on the'copyj but the whole
paper, name and all, purports to be a copy.written wholly
by Juan Gonzales himself, as regidor, second alcalde, and
acting in the absence of the notary public, and does not urport to, have been writtei or signed by De ]a Vega.
]ut even if the' document were one the registration of
which was contemplatdd by, the statute, the affidavits are
Mr. T

Paschal's Annotated Dizest,

5005.

Oct. 1873.]

MCPHAUL v. LAPSLEY.
Argument for the plantiffin error..

short of the requisitions, anO the document is left as an
office-copy of a power of attorney without the sligliest'effect
as proof, farther than that there was, inform, such a lrower.
Indeed, Gonzales says (more than twenty-five years'after the
alleged power of attorney was -given) that he executed the
copy at the peisonal request of, &c., &c., and "that'the sigwere signed as assisting withesses
natures of . and ..
in his presence, and are their true and genuine signatur6s,"
meaning and certifying that the witnesses are to the fidelity
of the copy, and not to the correctness or gehuineness of the
original.
Neither of.these assisting witnesses is produced. The case
is equivalent to that of an office clerk in a common-lavi'State
copying a power*of attorney, swearing to the execution; of
the originaJ, having the copy recorded, and hoping .b this
means to -make the copy supply the place of the original,
under the special legislation of the seVeral States.
But these assisting witnesses were not the witnesses. to
the signature of Vega or De"]a Vega .to the original pdw.er
of. attorney. Three citizens and neighbors are declared
present at the execution and delivering. Their names are
given in full: Antonio Espinoza, Rafael de Leon, and Francisco de ]a Fuente. Neithdr is produced, nor is his absenceaccounted for.
Were these witnesses bound under Spanish law to sIgnwith the principals and notary? Dodbtless. Bui they do
not sign. And no one of them was produced to prove.the
execution and acknowledgment.
But if the testimonio, in virtue of being filed, proved itself,
what was it? Nothirig, even as pretended, -but a copy of an
original confessedly existing and capable of being produced.
The testimonio did not profess to be an original.. The
filing may have dispensed with proof of its being a copy.
But if it had not been filed, and had been offered iii'evidence
as a copy, and been conceded by u's t6 be a true copy, how
did that help the plaintiff? In Spain and.her colonies indeed,
these tesfimonios or copies, make 'primd facie. full -proof
of all they contain, when offered in evidence on a judicial

MCPHAUL V. LAPSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

contestation. But this institution of the notariat forms no
part of the laws of Texas, where the common-law rules of
evidence prevail,'except so far as statutes may alter them.
The fifing,'in sho'rt, may have dispensed with certain formal proof; but it does not allow you to prove by a secondary
sort of evidence that which you can prove b" an original in
your control.
2. The court erred in rejecting the testimony of Walker.
If a copy became, by filing, under the act of May 12th,
1846, the equivalent of an original of which it purported to
be a copy, or even if the rule of the Spanish law prevailed,
and this testimonio became as a mer6 copy evidence, it would
not evein under that law become more than primd facie evi'
deuce; and the court erred in r.ejecting the evidence of
Walker to prove that there was no such original as that of
,ihich th.e testimonio purported to be a copy; in other words,
that the testimonio was fraudulently made. Even under
Spanish law that could be proved. Now, certainly the testimony of Walker, with his photograph fac similes in his
hand, did tend to prove this. In our opinion such testimony tended strongly to prove it. But certainly the testimony tended somewhat to do so, and if it tended at alltended in the least-it ought to have been received. It will
be said that the originals could have been produced, and
that such original was better than the photograph. The argument is double-edged. It cuts two ways; and more
sharply backwards than forwards. If the argum)ent has any
force, why was not the original produced to support the
plaintiff*'s claim? To prove what was in the protocol the
photographs were infinitely better than the testimonio.
3. The court erred in charging. It charged that there was
no evidence that the testimonio was not genuine except the
evidence of difference of name. If there was any law authorizing the record (and, as we have already said, unless
there was,'the testimonio was wrongly admitted without
being proved), some presumption of fraud (in our view a
considerable one) arose, from the non-recording of the paper
for nearly thirty years after its date.

Oct. 1873.-]

McPHAUL V. TAPSLEY.
Argument for the defendant in error.

The principles of law, as to the testmoni'o, were entirely
disregarded in the'instructi9ns. ,Tile court says;
"The testimonio, the, original and copy' of which is before
you, of kay 5th, 1832, is e.vidence for youi consideration."
Whilst the record shows that only the testirnonio or officecopy of the power of attorney was before the jqry.' It
further 'said that "it 'vas pot necessary that the ,sigature
of the grantee, Thomas de la Vega, in his own proper handwriting, should be on the testimonio before th'e jury, and
also th'at if Thomas de ]a Vega did sign the oi'igingl of, tbq
testirnonio and the testinionio before the jury in the office at'
Saltillo, then the testinionio given' in. evidence, with proof
of a conveyance made by Williams, the attorney, by virtue'
of it,.would divest La Vega.of his lands claimed."
This withdrew the n'finds of the jurors from the consideration of the want of genuineess of the testimonio, arising from a failure of plaintiffs to show the existence of o?; the'
genuineness of any protocol in Saltillo.*
In Spencer v.. Lapsley,t thi* same testimonio was, indeed,
received by this court; but then the court relied for its judgment upon the fact that "its authenticity had never'been
questibued by La Vega, so far as is shown in the record."
Mr. P. Phillips, contra:
I. The testimonio was "'properly recorded," and, therefore,
having been filed, with 'notice of the-filing, was made evidence by the,
act of May 13th, 1846.
1: A testimonio is what is known in Texas, derivifig its
terms from the Spanish law, as a "second original;" and
not, as is assumed by the oppoping coqnsel, a copy simply.
This was settled by this court in Miichel v. The. United States
s6 far back as 9th.Peters.1 It is there said:
"The original is a record, and preserved in the bffice, and
cannot be tak~n out; a testimonio'or copy is delivered to the
party, which is deemed to 'be and is certified as an original
,Clarke v. Courtney, 5 Petdrs, 319.

t 20 Howard, 273.

$ Page 782.

MCPHAUL v. LAPSLEY.

[Su). ,Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

paper, having all the effect of one in all countries governed by
the civil law."
And in Hlerndon v. Casiano,* the Supreme Court of Texas
said the same thing-:
"The testimonio, though denominated a second original, is
still an original."
As an original it was rightly recorded under the recording acts of Texas.
-That the testimonio is an "instrument in writing concerning
land," as described in the fourth section of the act of May
12th, 1846, is plain.
And that the' acknowledgment by Gonzales was made by
"the pers6n who executed the instrument."
And that his deposition, together with that of Seguin, as
to the genuineness of the handwriting of the assisting witnesses (who are residents of a foreign country), bring the
case fully within the provisions of the seventh and ninth
sections.
In Edwards v. James,t the officer who executed the testimonio acknowledged the same, and on this it was recorded.
The Supreme Court of Texas held this sufficient under the
thirty-fifth section of the act of 1836. It said:
"The officer who executed the protocol, and issued the copy
or second original, appeared before the county register and
acknowledged his signature to the certificate authenticating the
testimonio, and this was sufficient, under the thirty-fifth section
of the act of 1836, to have authorized its record."
If we compare these words of the act of 1836 with those
of 1846, we find them to be substantially the same.
In the first, evidence is: to be produced as to the "1signature of the signer, unless he, himself, shall acknowledge the
same."
By the second, the acknowledgment is to be made by the
grantor, or person who executed the instrument."
The signer of the instrument, and the person who exe* 7 Texas, 882.

t Ib. 377

MCPHAUL V. LAPSLEt.

Oct. 1878.] "

Argument for the defendant in error.

cutes it, are the same. So that the decision mad' '.under.the
act of 1836 applies in full ferce to a like acknowedgment
made under that'of 1846.
In Paschal v. Perez,* the court say:
"If the instrument be legal and authentic, without subscrib.in'
witnesses,-it would require language too plain to be mista=n.to
exclude it from record for the want-of proof by such witnesses,
the signature of the signer being substantiated by satisfactory
proof."
In this case we not only have this acknowledgment of the
signer, but the evidence of 'two witnesses to his signature,
and the genuineness of the signature of.the-assistin K witnesses, non-residents.
2. The paper as a "copy" of an" original remaining in the
public archives, executed in conforniity to the laws existing
when it was made, duly certified by the proper officer," was
properly recorded under the second section of the act 6f 19th
January, 1839.
In Gitilbeau V. May,t decided in the Supreme Court of
Texas A.D. 1855, the court says:
"It is believed this act has a direct reference to' this description of titles. It is well known that in the titl9s to land executed
prior to our separation from Mexico, the original remained a.
an archive, and a testimonio was given to the interested party.
as an evidence of title. . . . The act leaves no doub; that~this
kind of evidence ought to be recorded."
The recording acts, tierefore, applied to the paper whether
it was' an original or a'copy; and as either it was "properly recorded. What if it was not recorded for many-.yearg
after its execution ? Papers do not lose their right to be
recorded by delay: If proper papers for record at.one time,,
they are of right recorded at any time; and when recorded
of right are properly recorded."t
Having been properly recorded the document wad made
evidence by the act of May 3d, 1846.:
* 7 Texas, 348,

t 15,Id. 410.

¢ lb. 414,

280.

MCPHAuL, v. LAisLEY.

[Sup. Gt.

Argument for the defendant in error.

II. The testimony of Walker- was rightly excluded. Its pur,
pose was to discredit a testimonio making a title to land,
by showing, forty years after the execution of the document, a discrepancy between the testimonio and the matrix
or pi'otocol.
If evidence to do this is admissible at all, it ought to come
from the best source. The officer in charge of the archives
should have been examilied, and the documents themselves;
or authentic copies, should have been produced in court fqr
inspection.
In this case what purpqrted to be-a photographic copy of
the protocol wa no proof at all, because not established by
the testimony of any person who made it.
It is by ixo means admitted that if proper evidence of discrepancy had been produced, this would have invalidated
the testinionio.
. It is stated by Sala,* that the paper which is always signed
by the parties and witnesses is thefirgt draft on'common.paper.
That it ought afterwards to be extended in tlhe book of'
protocols, and should be again signed b7 them.
That the first paper" when. free from blots, &c., is better
evidence than the protocol, because it is always signed by
the parties, whereas the protocol is vot always signed by them,
and because the former contains the rubric or seal of the
offiper, while th6 latter does not.
That'the protocol has full faith for which it is intended;
but in court so much faith is not awarded to it as to the testimonio,
because it was not estdblishedfor the purpose, and because it wants
the rubric or seal which authenticates it, and which every public
instrument ought to have.
That the testimonio makes full proof except'in 'cases where
the instrumental wittiesses dispute it.
By a law of Texas all. the aichires were required to be -de,posited in the General Land Office, whether iii, possession:
of'an empressario,political ehief, alcalde, commissary, or commissioner. The failure, to do this was visited with a heavy
4 Sala, 127, 130, 236.

Oct. 1873.]

MCPHAUL V

LAPSLEY.

'Argument for the defendant in error.

penalty. Documents so deposited were to remain there, and
certified copies were made evidence.
In Titus v. Kibro,*'a4 testimonio was offered in e.vidence
and held io be conclusive,'and to be better .evidenceih'an
a certified copy of an orzginqtl title from the General Land
Office.
III. The charge was right.
The judge was requested to cbharge, that unless the jury
believed that the'grantee and Thomas Vega were one and
the same person, the instrument mist be disregarded. The
ibstruction was given, with the qualificatiQn, that if thej ury
believed that the grantee was known indirntly as Thomas
Vega and Thomas de a Vega, then the presumption is'that
he was the same pers on, and they would so consider, unless
satisfied thatsuch was. not the fact.
In view of th documentary evidence on which the. two,
names were used indifferently, there can be no valid objection to this charge.
N o instruction was asked for as to the effhct of the lapse
of time before the instrument was recorded. If such instruction had been asked, it would h.ave been propefly refused, as the registration, whenever madeis effective from,
its date.
We need not assert that the testimonio coming from our
possession would have proved itself. We rest its admission
in evideice without proof of execution, on the ground that
the statute of the State made it evidence after it had been recorded, and whin notice had beed given that it was to be used in
evidence on the tridl.t
IV. The ivritof erroris sued out by MAcPhaul and all the other
eight original defendants to correct a judgment rendered against
them.
There is; no judgment such as is described in the writ.
The only judgmeit is against McPhaul alone, U5e alone
petitioned for the writ, The writ must, thdreforp, be dis* 8 Texas, 212. '

8 21Harvey v. Hill, 7 Id., 597.

MOPHAUL

V. LAPSLEY.

[Sup. Ot.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

missed (if amendable in this particular) as to all others than
McPhaul.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The action-was ejectment. Lapsley was the plaintiff. The
plaintiffs in error were the original defendants. In the progress of the cause the plaintiff dismissed the action as to all
of them except N. A. McPhaul, and judgment was rendered
against him for their costs. He recovered against McPhaul,
and this writ of error is prosecuted to reverse the j udgment.
The writ should have been in the name of MePhaul alone
as the plaintiff in error. But as the defect is clearly amendable under the third section of the act of June 1st, 1872, it
is unimportant.
There are numerous assignments of error. Except those
involving points which we deem material to be considered,
we shall pass them by without remark.
The affidavit of Mussina was properly stricken from the
files.
The law of Texas provides as follows: "Every instrument in writing (properly recorded) shall be admitted as
evidence without the necessity of proving its execution, provided
that the party who wishes to give it in evidence shall file the
same among the papers of the suit three days before the
trial and give notice to the opposite party of such filing, and
unless such opposite party, or some other person for him, shall
within one day after such notice file an affidavit siating that he
believes such instrument to be*forged."*
The affidavit was filed by Mussina as the attorney of De
]a Vega. It set forth that the inhtrument of writing purporting to be a testimonio or second original of a power, of attorney from Thomas de la Vega, by the name of Thomas
Vega, to Samuel M. Williams, dated May 5th, 1892,was, as
affiant verily believed, a forgery. The testimonio was one
of the' plaintiff's files in the case for the purposes of eviSection 90, act 13th May, 1846, p. 387, referred to in Hanrick v. Barton,
_16 Wallace, 166.

Oet. •!873.]

MCPHI.UL •V.

LAPSLEY.

Recapitnlation of the case in the opinion.

dence upon the tril. The object of the affidavit was to
throw the burden of proof upon the plaintiff.
He had given tl~e proper notice to the defendants on the
16th of January, 1872. The affidavit was filed, not within
one day thereafter, as the statute required, but on the 5th
of February following, while ihe trial was in progress. De
la Vega, in m.hose behalf it was filed, was not a party to
the record.
It is insisted that the testimonio was improperly admitted
to record, and tbat:it was not properly admitted in evidence.
These objections present questions of local law.
The instrument is as follows:
It bears date on the 5th day of May, 1832, and sets forth that
Thomas Vega, Rafael Aguerre, and Jose Ma. Aguerre, of
the city of LeonaVicaria, appeared before Juan Gonzales,
regidor of that city- and declared that they conceded to
Samuel May Wi lliams, a resident of the city of Austin, full
power, "in order that in the names of the appearers" he
might proceed to sell .the lands therein described. . "And to
confirm all that may be granted and executed, the appearers
bind" themselves, their persons, and their property present
and to come." It concludes, "Thus have they granted and
signed it in presence of these witnesses, Antonio Espinosa,
Rafael de Leon, and Francisco "de la Fuentes, Gonzales,
residents of this city.
"I attest: Juan Gonzales. Thomas Vega, JQse' Ma.
Aguerre, Rafael Aguerre."
.The following memorandum was affixed:
Copy from the original, with which it agrees the day of
its execution; given on two ' useful' pages of paper, of the
second stamp, conformable to law. All of which I, the undersigied judge, officiating with tilose assisting me accord.
ing to, law, hereby attest.
"JUAN

"Witness:
JOSE NAZO ORTIZ,
J.

M.

MORAL."

GONZALES.

MCPHUAUL v. LAPSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Recapitulation of th case in the opinion.

Affidavits are annexed upon which it was recorded, in
McClennan County, September- 7th, 1856, and again, September 22d, 1858; in Falls County, October 6th, 1859, and
in Williamson County, October 15th, 1859. The affidavits
were-all sworn to in Texas. Among them are, bne proving
the handwriting of Gonzales and the attesting witnessesMoral and Ortiz-and that, if living, they are residents of
Saltillo, in the State of Coahuila; one by Gonzales, made
July 13th, 1857, proving .that the testimonio was executed
by him at the persqnal request of the grantors named therein
and in their presence, and that his signatture thereto, and
those of M.oral and Ortiz; are all genuine; that Thomas de
]a Vega executed a certain other power of attorney before
him to S: M. Williams on the 28th of April, 1832, and that
"the said Thomas de la Vega, who executed this testimonio,
is one and the.same person;"
The testimonio here in question being a copy from, the
protocol, or original instrument, made by the officer by
whom the protocol 'was executed, wag, in the eye of the
Spanish law and of the law of Texas, "a second original,"
and of equal validity and effEct with the prior one.*
That Gonzales had authority adequate to the function he
petformed, and that the testimonio was valid, was held by
this court in Spencer v. Lapsley.t
In relation to the recording of the. instrumept, our attention has been called to the following statutes of Texas: the
act of the 20th of December, 1836, sections thirty-five and
forty; the act of May 10th, 1838; the act of January 19th,
1839; and the act of May 12th, 1846, sections four, five,
seven, eight, and nine. A careful examination of these
statutes has satisfied us that the registration was authorized
.by law. If there could be any doubt upon the subject it is
1 Partidas, 222; Owings v. Hull, 9 Peters, 625; Mitchel v. United States,
1b. 732; Smith v. Townsend, Dallam's Digest, 570; Herndon v. Casiano, 7
Texas, 332.
f 20 Howard, 274.

oct. 1873.]

MOPHAUL v. LAPSLEY.
Recapitulation of the chse in the opinion.

removed by the Texis adjudications* upon the stibject, referred to in the argument of the learned counsel for the
defendant in error. A certified copy from the office.where
the testimonio was recorded would, therefore, have been
competent evidence. The original, with the. recorder's indorsement, would, as a consequence,.also have been admissible. In such cases, it would be a solecism to receive the
.copy and rejet the original.
In this case the plaintiff offered the testimonio in evidence,
and it was properly received. It would have been admissible without recording. In Martin v. Parker,t it was objected that an act of sale of real estate, not having been
signed by the in'strumental witnesses, was inadmissible without proof of its execution. -The court replied: "We do not
thipk the objection well taken. In .McKissick v. Colquhoun,.
Chief Justice Hemphill said: ' The signature of a judge or
alcalde acting in place of a notary, authenticated by two
assisting witnesses, has all the force and effect of the signature and seal, or rubric, of a notary."
The defendant offered to prove by T. I. Walker, a witness present, that in the year 1868 he went'from Austin,
Tekas, to Saltillo, formerly Leona Vicaria, in Coahuila,
Mexico, and there examined the books of protocols in the
office of the secretary of the ayuntamiento; that be found
in the book of protocols for the years.1832 and 1833, among
others a protocol of a power of attorney, inthe Spanish language, of the date of May 5th, 1832, from Jos6 Maria Aguerre
to Samuel'M. Williams, giving Willians the power to sell
the land granted by the government to Thomas ]a Vega and
Rafael and Jose Maria Aguerre, to wit, eleven leagues each;
that said protocol had to it no signatures but those of Gonzales and Jose Maria Aguerre, and that it had no signatures
* Guilbeau v. Mays, 15 Texas, 414; Henderson -v.
Pilgrim, 22 Id. 476;

Secrest v. Jones, 21 Id. 183; Paschal v.Perez, 7 Id. 348; Edwards v. James,
lb. 877.
j 18 Id. 151.
t 26 Texas, 260.

MOPHAUL v. LAPSLEY.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

of witnesses; that in said protocol-book, and of the date of
April 28th, 1832, he found an original protocol of a power
of attorney, signed by Jos6 Maria de Aguirre,-or Aguerre,
and Thomas de ha Vega and Jjian Gonzales, with -attesting
witnesses Ortiz and Moral; that this power was to Samuel
M. Williams; and that in said book, from the power of
attorney of the 28th of April,'1832,'to the power of the 5th
of May, 1832, inclusive, there were seven leaves, and no
visible evidence of any mutilation of the book; that there
are no protocols of any power of attorney from either Maria
de Aguirre, or Aguerre, or Thomas de ]a Vega, to any one,
in said seven leaves, except the two named above; and that
the witness had in his hands then in court photographic
copies of said seven leaves, showing exactly the facts above
mentioned as to the protocol-book and the said two powers
of attorney as of record therein.
The plaintiff objected to the admission of the evidence.
The court sustained the objection and the adefendant excepted.
It has been shown that the testit'onio is "a second original," and of the same effect with the protocol.* According
tb an eminent Spanish authority it is full proof, unless the
instrumental witnesses contradict it.t Here neither Vega,
either of the Aguerres, Gonzales, Moral, nor Ortiz was pr oduced; nor was their absence accounted for. The bill of
exceptions states that the witness had the phofographic
copies in his hands in court-not that they weie offered in
evidence. But perhaps it is only fair to construe the bill of
exceptions so as to give it that effect. Conceding this, the
only testimony offered was that of Walker, and the two photographic copies. It does not appear to have been suggested
that this was to be followed' by any further testimony. The
copies had been in the possession of Walker more than three
years; yet it is not shown that the plaintiff had any notice
* Mitchel v. United States, 9 Peters, 732 ; Herndon v. Casiano, 7 Texas,

832.
t 4 Sala, 127, 130, i36.

Oct. 1873.]

MCPHAUL
13
v. LAPSLEY.
Opinion of the court.

of th;em'until they were suddenly produced by the witness
in the midst of the trial. It is also significant that the agent
who went on the visit of exploration to Saltillo did not claim
to have discovered anything whatever adverse to the testimonio, except the state, of the protocol as it appeared of
record. Nor did the defendant, enlightened as be must
have been by Walker, invoke the testimony of the keeper
of the archives, or of any other person residing in the locality
where'they were kept. "The.plaiutiff's etition was filed in
1863. Walker's discovery was made in 1868. The trial was
in 1872. There was time between the two periods last mentioned to procure ample testimony from Saltillo and elsewhere touching the fraud and f6rgery charged, if they were
believed to exist. The defendant was silent. The record
is a blank as to any such testimony given, offered, or suggested, except the isolated circumstances offered to be proved
by Walker and' the two photographic copies. These, are
pregnant facts. Copies of the photographs are not given in
the bill of.exceptions; nor.are the contents of.the power to
Williams, of the 28th of April, given.in whole or part. That
is stated to have had upon it the names of J6s6 Maria
Agudrre and Thomas de la Vega as grantors, and of Gonzales with those of Moral and Ortiz as assisting witnesses.
It is pbssible that the testimonio may, by the mistake of the
copyist, have the date of the latter instead of tjae earlier instrument, or that if the fuller and better evidence, which
the defendant was bound to give, had been produced, The
apparent discrepancies between the two documents in ques-.
t~on might have been explained in a manner consistent with
the integrity of all concerned and the validity of the testimonio. it should at least have been shown by some one
officially connected with the office, that the book seen by
the witness was the book, and the only book there wherein
the instrument could have been properly recorded, and that,
there Was no such protocol anywhere in that book, or elsewhere in the office. It is also possible it was known in the
office that the missing signatures had been removed by some
dishonest hand.

.MCPHAUL v. LAPSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The testimony proposed to be elicited from Walker fdll
far Rhort of the requisite standard. -A. party is not permitted
to give secondary evidence where it presupposes better evideice within his reach, which he fails to produce. In Benner v. Bank of Columbia,*, this court, speaking of such e~idence, said: "Every case must depend in a great measure
upon its own circurhstances. The rule of evidence must be
so applied as to promote the ends of justice, and guard
against fraud and imposition."
It appears i,,cidentally by the record that there has been
a great amount of litigation; extending through a long period of time, touching the lands to which this testimonio
relates. The protoc6l and testimonio bear date more than
forty years ago.
The record does not show that during this long period
either of the Aguerres ever questioned the validity of the
latter, or that La Vega ever assailed it by his own sworil
testimony.
Large and diversified interests must have grown up on
the faith in'its genuineness. In this case the attack upon
the instrument ig not made by either of the grantors, but.
vicariously by the defendant, who claimed under a distinct
and hostile title which he wholly failed to establish.
I Under all the circumstances, we think the testimony of
Walker was properly excluded.
In our judgment the court was correct as to the instructions given and those refused, to which the excetions touching that subject relate.
We direct, sua sponte, the writ of error to be amended by
striking from it the names of all the plaintiffs except MePhaul; and the judgment of the Circuit Court is
AFFIRMED.

* 9 Wheaton, 681,

