488

HEARNE V. MARINE INSURANCE COrPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

sumption is, in the absence of anything in the record to the
contrary, that before it was rendered the court had become
judicially satisfied that the property could not be returned.
In a court of error every presumption is in thvor of the validity of the judgment brought under consideration. Error
must appear affirmatively before there can be a reversal.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

HEARNE V.

MARINE INSURANCE

COMPANY.

Where, by the terms of a policy, a vesscl is insured " to a port in Cuba,
and at and thence to port of advice and discharge in Europe," and the
vessel is lost in going from the port of discharge in Cuba, to another
port in the same ishnd for reloading, held on a suit on the policy for a
loss that evidence by the assured was inadmissible to show a usage that
vessels going to Cuba might visit at two ports, one for discharge and
another for loading. [In the ]present case the court held that the evidence offered did not show such a usage.]
2. 'Where there has been a deviation in a voyage insured, no decree will be
made for a return of any part of the premium. The deviation annuls
the contract as to subsequent parts of the voyage and causes a forfeiture
1.

of the premium.

APPEAL in equity from the decree of the Circuit Court for
the District of Massachusetts. Hlearne filed a bill in the
court below against the New England Mutual Marine Insurance Company to reform a contract of insurance, lie alleging
that Ilie policy as made ont did not conifOrii to the aglreement of the parties, taking that agreement with the usage
or custom which he insisted entered into and formed a part
of it.
The case was thus:
On the 7th of May, 1866, Hearne made his application by
lottw' to tihe company fbr insurance. He said:

,' The bark Maria Henry is chartered to go from Liverpool to
Cuba and load for Europe, via Falmouth for orders where to
discharge. Please insure $5000 on this charter valued at $16,000,
provided you will not charge over 4 per cent. pr.mium."

Oct. 1874.]

HEARNE V. MARINE INSURAME COMPANY.

489

Statement of the case.

On the 9th of that month the company through its president replied:
"Your favor of the 7th is at hand. - As requested we-have
entered $5000 on charter of bark Maria Henry, Liverpool to
port in Cuba and thence to port of advice and discharge in Europe, at 4 per-cent."

The policy was made out on the same day ind described
the voyage as follows:
"At and from Liverpool to port, in Cuba and at and thence to
port of advice and discharge in Europe."
There'after the policy was delivered. to the assured and received-without objection. The vessel was loaded withcoal
at Liverpool and'proceeded thquce to St. .ago de Cuba.
There she discharged her outward cargo. She went thence
to Mlanzanillo,'another port in Cuba; wbere she'took on
board a cargo of naitive woods. On the 13th of Septemhdr,
1866, she. sailed thence for Europe, intending to go b, Falmouth for orders. Upon the'18th of that month, oil her
.homeward voyage, she was lost .by perils of the sea. Due
notice was given of the loss, and it was admitted to have, occurred as alleged in. the bill. The company refused :to pay,
upon the ground that the voyage from St. Iago de Cuba to
Manzanillo was a deviation from the voyage described in
the policy, and, therefore, put an end to the liabilit , of 'the
insurers.

On tl'e 7th of December, 1868, two years after tie loss
occurred, Hearne brought an action at law against thecompany. The court held that fie was not entitled to recover
by reason of the deviation befor'e stated. He failed in the
suit. On the 16th ofJanuary, 187f, he filed the bill in this
case, add prayed therein to "haethe contract refo'nied so as
to cover the elongated voyage fronl St..Jago to Manzanillo,
•The bill averred that at the time ot chartering the bark,
And
at the -time of the issuing of the policy, there existed
"at Iiverpool
a geheral and uniform, usage of txade, that
all vessels chartered at said port for a round voyage from
said port to 'the island of Cuba, and thence to, return to

490

HEARNE V. MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY.

[S'up. Ct.

Opinion'of the court.

Europe, carrying, coal as their outward cargo to Cuba, and
bringing a return cargo thence to Europe, should visit one
port in the said ,island for- the purpose of discharging the,
outward cargo, and that they should then proceed to another"
port for the pirpose of shipping a return cargo, and further
that this usage was well known to all merchants, and others
engaged in the trade between Liverpool and Cuba.
Evidence was introduced to establish the usage. It showed
that'about four-fifths of the vessels whiph go laden W'ith coal,
to Cuba, take their return cargo elsewhere on the island
than -at the poet of discharge, and that a few used the sanie
port for bqth purposes. But it appeared also that the contract in-both cases was expressed according to what the parties pqrposed.
The court below dismissed .the bill, and from its action
l]earne took th'is appeal.
Mr. Walter Curtis, for -the appellant; -Mr.,H. C. Hutchins,
contra.
Mr. Justice EWA-NE,- having stated the case, delivered
,the opinion of the court.
The reformaitiol of written con trocts for fraud or mistake
is an ordinary bead of equity jurisdiction. The rules wahich
govern the exercise of this power are founded in good sense
andare well settled; Where the agreement as redu~ed to
writing. omits or contains terms or stipulations contrary to
the common intention of the parties, the instrument will be
corrected so as to make it conform to their real intent. The
parties will be'placed as they would have stood if the mis,take had not occur r ed.*
The party alleging the mistake must show exactly in'what
it consists, and the correction that sbould be made. The
evidence must be such asto leave no reasonable doubt upon
,the mind of the court as to either of these points.t The
* ,Uerr on Fraud and Mistake, 419, 420.
t Beaumont v. Bramley, 1 Turnetr & Russell, 41-50; Mitrquis of Breadalbane v. Marquis of Chandos, 2 Mylne & Craig, 711; Fowler v. Fowler, 4 D.e

Oct. 1874.]

HEARNE V. MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY.

491

Opinion of the court.

mistake must be mutual and common to both parties to the
instrument. It must appear that both have 'done what
neither intended.* A mistake on one side may be a ground
for rescinding, but not for reforming, a contract.t Wheye
the minds of the parties have not met there is no contract,
and hence none to be rectified.$
This jurisdiction is applied, where necessary and-proper,
to the reformation of contracts of insuranee.§
Here the application was to insure on a charter "from
Liverpool to Cuba, and load for Europe, via Falmouth," &c.
This was indefinite as to Cuba, and may have been regarded
by the company as ambiguous. The answer 'was, as "requested, we have entered $5000 on charter to porl in Cuba,
and thence to port of advice and discharge in Europe." This
answer shows clearly two thinga: (1.) How the company
understood the proposition. (2.) That they agreed to insure
according to that understanding, and not otherwise.
There was no mistake nor misapprehension on their part.
The circumstances show there could be none.
The correspondence between the parties constituted a preliminary agreement. The answer to Hearne's proposal was
plain and explicit. It admitted but of one construction.
He was bound carefully to read it, and it is to be presumed
lie did so. In that event there wap as little room fbr misapprehension on his part as on the part of the company.
Such a result was hardly possible. There is nothing in the
evidence which tends to show that any occurred. The inference of full and correct knowledge is inevitable. It is
Gex & Jones, 255; Sells v. Sells, 1 Drewry & Smales, 42; Loyd v. Cocker,
19 Beavan, 144.
*
ooko v. Lord Kensington, 2 Kay.& Johnson, 753; Eaton v. Bennett,
34 Beavan, 196.
t Mortimer v. Shortall, 2 Drury 4 Warren, 372; Sells v'. Sells, supra.
$: Bentley v. McKay, 31 L. J. Chancery, 709; Baldwin et al. v. Mildeberger, 2 Hill, 176; Coles v. Bowne, 10 Paize, 534; Ciilverley v. Williams,
1 Vesey, Jr., 211.
Harris v. Col. Co. Ins. Co_., 18 Ohio, 116; Fireman's Insurance Co. v.
Powell, 13"B. Monroe. 311 ; National Fire Insurance Co. v. Crane, 16 Mary-land, 260.

492

HIEA4NE V. MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

as satisfactory to the judiial' mind as direct evidence to the
same effect would be.
So far, the complainant's case is .as weak in equity as it
was at law.
But it is said there was a usage that vessels going'to Cuba
might visit at least two ports-one'for discharge and the
other for reloading. It is insiste(d that this nsage authorized
the voyage to Manzanillo; that the voyage was not a deviation ; that itin no wise affected the liability of the company
in equity; and that hence, the contract of the parties in this
particular should be reformed accordingly.
It is not necessary that the usage relied npon in cases like
this should have been commupiicated or known to the assurers. Lord Mansfield said: "Every underwriter is presumed to be acquainted with the practice of the trade he
insures, and if he does not know it, he ought to inform
'himself."*
,.Usage is admissible to explain an ambiguity, but it is
neyer received to contradict what is plain ini a written contract.t If the .wordq employed have an established legal
meaning. parol evidence that the parties intended to use
them in a difterent sense will be rejected, unless if interpreted according to their legal acceptation, they would be
insensible with reference to the context or the extrinsic
facts.t If no such consequence is involved, proof of usage
is wholly inadmissible to contradict or in any wise to vary
their effect.§ In no case can it be received where it is inconsistent with, or repugnant to, the contract. Otherwise
it would not explain, but contradict and change the contract
which the parties have made-substituting for it another
Noble v. Kennoway, 2 Douglas, 513; see also 1 Duer on Insurance, 266,
and the cases there -cited.
- Blackett v. Royal Exchange Assurance Co., 2 Crompton & Jervis, 250;
Crofts v. Marshall, 7 Carrington & Payne, 607; .Phillipps v. Briard, 1 Hurlstone & Norman, 21.
: Wigram on Wills, 11, 12.
Yates v. Pym, 6 Taunton, 446; Blackett v. Royal Exchange Assurnnce
Co., supra.

Oct. 1874.]

HEARNE V. MARINE INSURANCE'OOMPANY.

493

Opinion of the ,ourt.

and different one, which they did not make.* • To establish
such inconsistency it is not necessary that, it should be ex
cluded in express terms. It is suticient if it appear that the
parties intended to be governed by what is written and, not
by anything else.t
The principle of the admission of such testim6ny is that
the court may be placed, in regard to the suriounding citcumstances, as nearly as possible in the situation of the par
ties-the question bei ng, what did they mean by the language
they employed ? l What is-implied is as effectual as what
is expressed.§ The expression and the' implication in this
case are equally clear. It is expressed that the vessel should
proceed to a port in Cuba, and thence to Europe. It is implied that she should visit no other port in Cuba. Expresszm
facil tacitum eessare. Under these circumstances, usage can
have no application, and proof of its existence is inadmissible. But the usage relied upon is npt sustained by he evidence.
It-appears that a large proportion of the vessels, perhaps
four-fifths, which go laden with coal, to Cuba, take on their
return cargo elsewhere on the island than at the port of discharge. A few use the same port for both purposes. But
the proof is also that the contract in all such cases is ,expressed according to theintent. There is no proof that
where the policy is upon a voyage to one port and back, the
vessel may proceed to 'another port before her'return, and
that by usage or otherwise, the latter' voyage as well as the
former shall be deemed to b withiii the policy.
Viewing the case in this aspect, we find nothing that would
warrant the interposition of'a court of equity.
.We are asked, if we decline to reform the contract, to
decree the return of the premium. This we cannot do.
* Holding v. Pigott, 7 Bingham, 465; Clarke v. Eoystone, 13 Meeson &
Welsby, 752; Trueman v. Loder, 11 A dolphus & Ellis, 589; Muncey v. "Dennis, 1.Hurlstone & Normad, 216.
t Hutton v. Warren, 1 Meesofi & Welsby, 477; Clarke v. Roystone, supra..

: 1 Greenleaf. on Evidence, j 295a;

United States v. Babbit, 1 Black. t1.

494 EQUITABLE

INSURANCE COMPANY V. HEARNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

We regard the case as one of mere deviation. It is essentially of that character. In that class of cases, the law
annuls the contract as to the future, and forfeits the premium to the underwriter. Here equity must follow the law.

We cannot apply a different rule.
DECREE AFFIRMED..

EQUITABLE INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

HEARNE.

Where a party proposed to insurers to insure his vessel on a " voyage from
Liverpool to Cuba and to Europe via Falmouth," at a rate named, and
the companypoffered to insure at a somewhat higher rate, saying, "1It is
worth something, you know, to cover the risk at the port of loading in
Cuba," hel& that it-was implied that "the port of loading" might be
different from the port uf discharge, and where the assured accepted
this offer, and told the insurer to insure 4 at and from Liverpool to Cuba
and to Europe vzaa market port,".&c.i held further, that a policy which
insured "to port of dlscharge in Cuba, and to Europe via a market
port," &c., did not conform to the contract, and was to be reforiped so
as to do so.

.APPEAL from theOircuit Court' for the District of Massachusetts.
The controversy in this case grew out of a contract of in-'
surance upon tle same eharter-party as in the preceding
case, though here theinsurance was by a different company
from the insurance there. The present case was thus:

On the 2d of May, 1866, Hearne addressed a letter to the
Equitable Insurance Compony as follows:
"Insure
valued at
per cent.;
Falmouth,
registered

$400 on the charter-party of the bark Maria Henry,
$16,000, if you will not charge me more than 3
.voyage from Liverpool to Cuba, and to' Europe via
for orders where to discharge. She will take her
tonnage of coal:"

On the 4th of the same ntonth the company replied:
"We cannot write the charter of the bark Maria Henry at
your rate, viz., 3 per cent:, including coals, from Liverpool to

