528

PACKET COMPANY V. CLOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

PACKET COMPANY V. CLOUGH.
1. Under the act of Congress of July 6th, 1862, enacting that " the laws of
the State in which the court shall bd held, shall be the rule of decision
as to the competency of witnesses in the courts of the United States,"
and tinder the acts of the legislature of Wisconsin, passed in 1863 and
1868, one of which says that "a party to a civil action . . . may be examined as a witness in his or 'her behalf on the trial; . . . and in case
of an action for damages for personal i? ury to a married woman, this
section shall be so construed as to allow such marriedwoman to be a witness
on her own behalf, in the same manner as if she was single;" and another
of which says that-"a party to any civil action . . . may be examined
as a witnpss in his own behalf or in behalf of any otherparty," a .married
woman may in the Circuit Court for Wisconsin, in an action on the
case by her husband and herself, for injuries done to her person, be examined as a witness for the plaintiffs. It is unimportant whose will be
the damages-whether the husband's or wife's-if recovered. The competency of the witness must be determined by the statutes.
2. In an action on the case by a husband and wife, with the regular common-law declaration, for injuries done to the wife's person, and a plea
of the general issue, after direct proof has been given of the marriage,
the defendants cannot prove either by way of disproving the fact of
marriage alleged in the declaration or in mitigation of damages, that
the plaintiffs had: ot lived together and cohabited as husband and wife
since Atime named (many years before); that it was commonly reputed
that they had not lived together, and that there was a common reputation that the alleged husband was living and cohabiting with another
woman.
3. When a woman has been severely injured in getting aboard a steamer,
by the alleged carelessness of the servants of the boat, in putting out an
improper sort of gang-plank, the fact that she is unwilling to pay fare
for her passage, and' that the captain makes no demand of fare from
her, is no release of her right of action against the owners of the boat
for the injuries done to her, unless she at the time understands it to be
so and consents that it shall be so., This is true even though the passage be one two days and a half long.
4. The conversations of a captain of a steamer with a party injured i-n getting
on his boat, made two days and a half after the accident occurred, in
which he attributed the accident to the careldssness of the servants of
the boat in putting out the plank, is not evidence to charge the owners
of the boat with fault, and this though made while the boat was still on
its voyage and before the voyage upon which the injured party had
entered was completed.
. A. party' who complains of the rejection of evidence must make it appear
by his bill of exceptions that if the evidence had been admitted it might

06t. 1874.]

PACKET' COMPANY P.' CLOUGH.

. '529
2

Statement of the case.
have led the jury to a different result, and that accordingly he has been
injured by the rejection. He must therefore have properly before this.
court the evidence rejected, or some 'statenient 6f what it tended to'
prove.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Easterfi District of
Wisconsin.
In January, 1870,. Carlos Clough and Sarah, his wife, in
right of the wife, sued the Union Packet- Conpany,-in an
action on the case to recover ;damages for personalijuries
sustained by the wife in conseqhience of alleged' negligence
of the company's servants. The declaration Wvas it. the reg-'
ular common-law form: Plea: Th'general issue.
The company, at the time of the injury, was owner" of-A.
.steamboat employed by it in carrying passengers and 'frigt
on the Mississippi River, between.:St. Paul, in tbe Stite'of
Minnesota, and St. Louis, in the State of'Missouri. , During
th'e passage downward, the boat ariived at.Read's.Landing,
in Minnesota, at about two.o'clock 6n the afternoon of Sep,
tember 80th, 1869, where she stopped to. receive passengers'.
.At that place Mrs. Clough (who was about .to 'go,to Davenport, in Iowa, at which place the ,boat was in the habit 6,f
touchig), in attempting to go on board,fell froni the gangway provided for entrance to the. boat, and recei'ved the injury for which the suit was brought. Whether the company
was guilty of negligence in having failed t6 ptovite a pr6per'
gangway, or, in 'having failed to-keep it ifn
pb6ition;.ffs, of
course, an important question ii the' case, and:&in the trial
the deposition of Mrs. Clough wgs admitted' in -suppqrt of.
her claim. Exception was taken to its admission. ,
WhetheIr this exception epuld be sustained dpended upon
certain statutes of the U'ited States and of Wisconsin.
Thus, an act of Congress of.July 6th, 1862,*'enacts thgt-""Thelaws of the State in' which the'court shall be held shall
be the rules of decision as to, the competency of witnesses in the
courts of the United States, in trials at common law, in equity
and admiralty."
* 12 Stat. at Large,
VOL. XX.

84

88.

PACKET COMPANY V. CLOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

And a statute of Wisconsin, passed in 1863,* enacts that"A party to a civil action or proceeding may be examined as
a witness in his or her behalf,on the trial, except in actions in
which the opposite party sues, or defends as administrator, or
legal representative of any deceased person. And in case of an
actionfor damagesfor personal injury to a married woman this section shall be so construed as to allow such married woman to be a
witness on her own behalf,- in the same manner as if she were not
married."
Another statute, also passed in 1868,t enacts that"A party to any civil action or special proceeding in any and
all courts, and before any und all tribunals, and before any and
all officers acting judicially, may be examined as a witness in
his own behalf, or in behalf of any other party, in the same manner and subject to the same rules of examination as any other
witness.",After direct testimony had been given by Mrs. Clough
that the plaintiffs were married on the 24th day of December,
1845, the defendants proposed to prove by other witnesses
that the plaintiffs had not lived together and cohabited as
husband and wife since December, 1869; 1 that it was commonly reputed that they had not so lived together, and that
there was a common reputation that Carlos Clough was living and cohabiting with another woman. This proof was
offered, as alleged, for two purposes,-one, to disprove the
fact alleged in the declaration, that the plaintiffs were husband and wife, and the other in mitigation of damages.
The court refused to receive it for either purpose, asserting,
in regard to the first alleged purpose, that the question of
the plaintiffs' relation to each other was not in issue by the
pleadings; and, in regard to the second, that the evidence
was not admissible in initigation of damages: that the marriage of the plaintiffs had been proved without objection,
and was not controverted by the defendant.
It appeared by the statements of Mrs. Clough that sheTaylor's Statutes, 1599, 73.
: The trial was had in April, 1872.

t Id. 1600, 1 74.

Oct. 1874.],

PACKET OOMPANY V. OL0UGI.
Statementof the case.

went to Davenport, arriving there in the evening; thai she
was on the boat two days and a half' that on account of the
injury received by her she had been unwilling to pay fare,
that the captain demanded none of her, and that she thanked
him for the free passage.
In the course of the trial the plaintifis' counsel asked Mrs.
Clough this question:
"What conversation, if any, did you have with the captain
after the accident, on her trip down to Davenport ?"
The question was objected to by the defendant's counsel',
buit the:court overruled the objection, and the answer to the
obj.tion was read as follows:
"Ie said it was through the carelessness of the hands in putting out the plank that I fell; t hat they did nol put out the
*regular plank, but loose planks. It was in the-evening, before we
got into Davenport, that I had the donversation with the captain."
The defendant then offered in evidence the ex parle deposition of one Turner, taken in Memphis, Tennessee, under
the thirtieth section of the Judiciary Act.
The court rejected thedeposition because it conceived it
not to be properly certified by the magistrate taking it.
This rejection made another exception. Neither the bill of
exceptions nor anything else contained the deposition, nor
any statement of what it tended to prove.
The twenty-first rule of this court, in that part of it relatto "briefs" and "specific a tions of error," says:

-ing

"When error alleged is to the admission or rbjection of evidence, the specification shall quote the full substance of the evidenpe offered, or copy the offer as stated in the bill of exceptions;
any alleged error not in accordance with these rules will be disregarded."
The judge charged"That the consent of the captain not to charge any fare, as
testified to by Mrs. Clough, was not a settlement or releise of
Mrs. Clough's right of action in this case, and would not prevent
a recovery unless she so understood it and so agreed at the time."

PACKET COMPANY V. CLOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the packet company..

To which charge the defendant excepted.
Verdict and judgment having been given for the plaintiffs
in $6000, the company brought the case here, assigning for
error1st. The admission of the deposition of Mrs. Clough.
2d. The rejection of the evidence to prove that plaintiffh
did not live and bohabit together.
8d. The holding that the marriage of the plaintiff was not
in issue under the pleadings.
4th. The holding, because Mrs. Clough had testified that
the plaintiffs were married, that the defendant could not disprove the fact by such testimony as was offhred.
5th. The charging that the demand of Mrs. Clough, that
she should not pay fare in consequence of theinjury received
in going on to the boat, and the assent thereto of the captain, did not amount to a settlement of her claim for the
injury done to her unless she so understood .it.
6th. The allowing Mrs. Clough to state, as she did, what
the captain had said to her after the accident, and on the
trip down to Davenport and just before arriving at that
place, in regard to the cause of the injury.
7th. The rejection of the deposition of Turner.
Mr. J. TV. Cary,for the pla~diff in error:
1. The court erred in admilling the deposition of Mrs. Clough,
if she was the wife of Carlos Clough.
The judgment in this action, when recovered; would belong to Carlos Clough. The wife, in such cases, is joined as
a formal party, but the husband would be entitled to the
judgment.* The case, therefore, presents the question, can
a wife be a witness for her husband ? The question is not
whether she is interested in the event, the suit, but as to the
policy of the law. If she can be a witness for her husband,
she must be competent as a witness against him, and in that
case a wife may be called in a suit against the husband and
compelled to disclose all the domestic and marital secrets of
* Shaddock and Wife v. Clifton, 22"Wisconsin, 114.

Oct. 1874.]

PACKET COMPANY V. OLOUGH.
Argument for the packet company.

the household. We acknowledge the force of the statutes
relied on, but these results are s6 alarming as perhaps to
control their interpretation.
2. The court erred in rejecting the eiqdence to prove that the
plaintiffs did not live and cohabit together as husband and wife.
(a) It was competent evidence, tending to show that such
relation did not at the time of the injury or trial exist between the parties. The fact that two persons live and cohabit together as husband and wife is some proof tha.t such
relation exists between them. On the other hand, the fact
that two persons do not live and cohabit together as husband
and wife is some evidence that the relation does not exist.
The only evidence in this case that this relation (lid or ever
had existed between the plaintiffs was by one of the plaintiffs.
She produced no certificate or record evidence of marriage,
but simply her verbal statement that they had been married
many years previously. The de'endants offered proof by
persons who had known them, that they did not and had
not lived or cohabited together as husband and wife since
they had known them. This tended to prove the absence
of a marriage.
(b) It was competent evidence to mitigate the damages.
As already said this prosecution was for the sole benefit
of Carlos Clough. He alone was entitled to the judgment
and, to the money sought to be collected. The loss and
damage which he sustained by the injury was what the jury
were to find in that case. Would not this loss be much
greater to him if she was a wife with whom he was living
and cohabiting, one whom he loved and cherished, than it
would be if she was one with whom lie had no intercourse
or society?
3 and 4. The court erred in holding that the marriageof plaintiffs was not in issue by the pleadings; and that the defendant
could not disprove the fact by such testimony as 'was offered.
Their right to join in this action depended wholly upon
the question as to whether they were husband and wife. It
was necessary for them to allege that fact, otherwise their
declaration would have been demurrable. The defendant

PACKET COMPANY V. CLOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the packet company.

pleaded the general issue, which was a denial of every material fact in the declaration; therefore this question was in
issue by the pleadings, and was necessary to be proved. If
necessary to be proved it was competent for the defendant
to adduce evidence to disprove it. It was, therefore, error
to hold that it was a fact not in issue.
5. The court erred in charging the jury that the demand of Mrs.
Clough, that she should not pay fare -in consequence of the ijury,
and the assent thereto of the captain, did not amount to a settlement of the claim now set up unless she so understood it.
Mrs. Clough paid no fare. When called upon for fare she
was unwilling to pay, because she met with an accident in
coming on board the boat; and her view was assented to.
On what principle? Simply as a settlement of her claim
for the injujry against the company. She used that claim
against the company to excuse herself from paying the fare
which the captain of the boat had a right to collect. He
yielded to her claim and received the congideration claimed.
Is she not estopped fu rther to assert it?
6. Vhe conversation testified to by Mrs. Clough with the captain
should have been excluded.
On this exception we rely confidently.
The accident occurred on the 30th of September, 1869, at
about two o'clock P.m. Tw and a half days afterwards,
just as the boat was nearing Davenport, the alleged conversation with the captain in regard to the accident tdok place.
In the Milwaukee and MississippiRailroadCompany v. .Finney,*
a suit against a railroad company, the court below allowed
the plaintiff to give in evidence the declarations of the defendant's ticket agent, made after the transaction of selling
the ticket was closed. The court held it clearly erroneous,
and reversed the judgment, and Dixon, C.J., in disposing
of it, quotes Story, J., as follows:
"Where the acts of the agent will bind the principal, then
hi representations, declarations, and admissions respecting the
* 10 Wisconsin, 388.

Oct. 1874.]

PACKET COMPANY V.

OLOUGH.

535

Argument for the person injured.

subject-matter, will also bind' him, if made at the time, and constituting a part of the res gester."
7. The court erred in rejecting the deposition of Turner.
.Messrs. TW. .'. Bartlett and 1. HI. Carpenter, contra:
1. The act of Congress and the statutes of Wisconsin (stated,
supra, p. 530) settle the first assignment of error.
The court cannot look at those statutes and have dqubt as
to their potential opeiation. The courts 6f Wisconsin apply
them to just such cases as this case.* Indeed, this first exception is hardly pressed. The whole force of the opposite
argument lies in an assumption, not true, that the husband
alone was the party suing. Now, Mrs. Clough was a necessary and proper party plaintiff. The injury was to her person. With, in, and by her, the. cause of action existed.
Without her there was no right of action. She and the
meritorious cause coexisted. She was the party seeking to
enforce her legal remedy for the actual injury practiced upon
her body The joining of the husband as a coplaintiff was a
nominal thing, to answer a technical requirement of the law..
The death of the husband, at any time, could not have defeated the right of action. If it is argued, that in case of
a judgment for the plaintiff, Carlos Clough could control
the judgment, the answer to that is, that the court, on a
proper application, in behalf of Mrs. Clough, would control
him, and would see that the proceeds of the judgment were
properly applied for the use of the injured person.
2, 3, and 4. The second, third, and fourth assiqnments may
be treated together and are equally unfounded.
The action was a common-law "action on the case," for
consequential damages-tortious, in form, ex delicto. The
cause of action is set forth in and by a common-law declaration. The plea is not guilty. That plea puts in issue the
gravamen of the complaint, the fault or guilty negligence
and carelessness of the defendant, and not the relationship
* Barns v. Martin, 15 Wisconsin, 246; Shaddock v. Town of Clifton, 22
Id. 114.

PACKET COMPANY V. (JLOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the person injured.

of the plaintiffs, or the corporate existence of the defendan.t, or citizenship of the parties. All of these matters however essential are impliedly admitted by the plea of notguilty.
The existence of the defendant as a corporation might have
been put in issue, but it was not; so might the citizenship
of the respective parties; but was not; so might the relationship of the plaintiffs, but was not. Had issues on these
several subjects been formed, they would hae been issues
in abatenient of the action and not to the merits. The defendants elected to plead to the merits, not guilty, thereby
waiving all formal objections or dilatory pleas. The court
well said, that the plainifIh' relation to each other was not
in issue by the pleadings, though to avoid controversy or
argument th'e marriage of the plaintiff:3 was proved, and that
too without any objection.
5. Th attempt to set up the non-payment of fare as a release
for the injury.
The verdict and judgment was for $6000. The injury was
of course great. The attempt to release a claim for such
injury by non-payment of a few dollars passage-money is
hard to stipport. No captain in common decency could have
extorted fare in such a case. The clearest proof of intention
to release should have been given if such a, pretension was
to be supported. The charge was right.
6. The statement made by the captain in-conversation with Mrs.
Clough was evidence.
It was made while Mrs. Clough was still a passenger upon
the boat, not having reached her destination. It was competent as a part of the res gestc, and independent of the
question whether the admission was a part of the res gestk
or not, it was made during the time that the plaintiff was on
her journey, arld before its termination; and is competent
evidence in that view alone. In The Enterprise,* Curtis, J.,
says,:
"I am quite sure the practice has been to admit declaratiops
made by the master while in command concerning any matters
* 2 Curtis; 321.

Oct. 1874.]

PACKET COMPANY V. CLOUGH.
Opinion of the court.

which came under his authority as master, though not part of
any res gestm strictly speaking."

In Burnside v. Grand Trunk Railivay Company,* it was held
by the court that the statements of the general freight agent
of the railway company as to the condition of goods delivered to him for transportatioi made wlile the goods were
in transit, were admissible in evidence against'the company,
although made eight months after Me goods were delivered, and
the court says that the only question is,
"Whether at the time these statements were made the con-,
tract with the railroad wag still in the course Of execution, and
we think it murt be so considered."t

7. Whether the ex parte deposiion-of Turner was riqhtly ruled
out this court will not inquire.
The record nowhere showsto this. court what the testimony -waswhich was excluded, nor what it proved or if-it
tended to prove anything. This omission iu the record'is
of itself fatal under the twent-first rule, and independently
of it. The counsel' should show that the deposition contained testimony competent in itself, and which had it vot been.
ruled odt by the court, would or might have prevented a verdiet against the packet company.1
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the c6urt.
In donsidering the first assignment of error-that is to
say, the question whether on the trial the deposition of'
Mrs. Clough was rightly admitted in support of her claiii,
it is unnecessary to inquire whose will he 'the damages, if
any, which may be recovered-whether they will belong to
the husbaiid or to the wife: The competency of the witness,
or her incompetency, must be determined bythe statutes of
Wisconsin, where the case wts tried. The act of Congre~s
,* 47 New Hampshire, 554.

f To the same effect see Ddmeritt v. Meierite, 89 New Hampshire, 521;
orie v. Connecticut Railroad Co., 6 Gray, 450; -Burgess v. Wareham,'7 Id.
845.
-+

Sewell v. Eaton, 6 Wisconsin, 494.

PACKET COMPANY V. CLOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of July 6th, 1862, has enacted that "tte laws of the State in
which the court shall be held shall be the rules of decision
as to the competency of witnesses in the courts of the United
States, in trials at common law, in equity, and admiralty."
And the statutes of Wisconsin* very plainly declare that
the wife is a competent witness for herself in such a case as
this. The first assignment of error cannot, therefore, be
sustained.
The second, third, and -fourth assignments present substantially the same question, and they may be considered
together. After direct testimony had been given by Mrs.
Olough that the plaintiffs were married on the 24th day of
December, 1845, the defendants proposed to prove by other
witnesses that the plaintiffs had not lived and cohabited
together as husband and wife since December, 1809; that
it was commo'nly reputed that they had not so lived together,
and that there was a common reputation that Carlos Clough
was living and cohabiting with another woman. This proof
the court refused to receive. It was offered for two avowed
purposes-one in mitigation of damages, and the other to
disprove the fact alleged in the declaration that the plaintiffs
were husband and wife. But how, if received, it could have
tended to mitigate damages has not been made plain to us.
The suit, as the case shows, was for an injury inflicted upon
the wife. Surely the injury was the same whether the husband lived with her or not. And the evidence was inadmissible for the other purpose for which it was offered. It
is true, ordinarily, the general issue in an action of trespass
on the case imposes upon the plaintiff the necessity of proving all the material faets averred in the declaration, but the
ability of the plaintiffs to sue is not a fact directly averred,
and, therefore, it cannot be disproved under a plea of not
guilty. In fact it is not put in issue by such a plea. The
defence that the plaintiffs suing as husband and wife are not
married goes to the form of the writ, rather than to the
* See statutes of- 1863 and.1868, quoted supra.-REP.

Oct. 1874.]

PACKET COMPANY V. CLOUGH.

589

Opinion of the court.

cause of action, and it should, therefore, be pleaded in abatement, and ljot in bar. Thus, in .Chitty's Pleadings* it is
laid down as a proper plea in abatement to the form of the
writ that the plaintit or defendants suing, or being sued,
as husband and wife, are not married. And in Stephens on
Pleading,t it is said "the plea of not guilty in trespass on
the case operates as a denial of the breach of duty, or wrongful act alleged to have been committed by the defendant....
But not guilty will apply to no other defence than a denial
of the wrongful act." The general issue at length is that
the defendant is not guilty of the grievances laid to his
charge, in manner and form as the said plaintiff hath above
thereof complained against hipm, and of this he puts himself
upon the country, &c.1 While, since the time of Lord
Mansfield, the scope of this issue has been much enlarged,
it has not been supposed to extend to a denial of the ability
of the plaintiff to sue. In Combs v. Williams,ยง it was ruled
that in the trial of an action upon a promise to a feme
sole, brought by her husband and herself after marriage, it
is not competent for the defendant under the general issue
to prove the illegality of the marriage, such matter being
wholly in abatement. True, this was in an action of assumpsit, hut the general issue is as broad, in such a case, as it is
in case for a tort. And if this were not so, even if in the
state of the pleadings the defendants were at liberty to prove
that the plaintiffs were not husband and wife, they could not
prove it by such evidence as that which they offered. Cohabitation as husband and wife may tend to prove marriage,
but non-cohabitation has not been accepted as disproving
the existence of the marital relation in face of uncontradicted evidence that a marriage in fact had taken place.
The fifth assignment of error is without any foundation.
It would be very extraordinary were we to hold that the
plaintiff had settled and discharged her claim upon the de-

t

Vol. i, page 392.

t Page 160.

1 Chitty's Pleading, 482.

a 15 Massachusetts, 243.

PACKET COMPANY V. CLOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

fendants without any intention or understanding on her part
to give it up.
The next assignment is more important. The accident
by which the plaintiff was injured occurred at Read's Landing, in Minnesota, on the 30th day of September, 1869, about
two o'clock in the afternoon. Two days afterwards, as the
boat approached Davenport, in the State of Iowa, M'rs.
Clough, the witness, had a conversation with the captain, in
which he made some statements respecting the accident, and
these statements tile court allowed to be given in evidence
against the defendants. In this we think there was error.
Declarations of an agent are, doubtless, in some cases, admissible against his principal, but only so fIM as he had authority to make them, and authority to make them is not
necessarily to be inferred fi'orn power given to do certain
acts. A captain .of a passenger steamer is empowered to
receive passengers on board, but it is not necessary to this
power that he be authorized to admit that either his principal, or any servant of his principal, has been guilty of
negligence in receiving passengers. There is no necessary
connection between the admission and the act. It is not
needful the captain should have such power to enable him
to conduct the business intrusted to him, to wit, the reception of passengers, and, hence, his possession of the power
to make such admissions affecting his principals is not to be
inferred from his employment.* It is true that whatever
the- agent does in the lawful prosecution of the business intrusted to him, is the act of the principal, and the rule is
well stated by Mr. Justice Story,t that " where the acts of
the agent will bind the principal, there his representations,
declarations, and admissions respecting the subject-matter
will also bind him, if made at the same time, and constituting
part of the res geste." A close attention to this rule, which
is of universal acceptance, will solve almost every difficulty.
But an act done by an agent cannot be v'aried,' qualified, or
* 1 Taylor on Evidence,

541.

tStory on Agency,

134.

Oct. 1874.]

PACKET COMPANY V. CLOUGH.

541

Opinion of the court.

explained, either by his declarations, which amount to no
more than a mere narrative of a past occurrence, or by an
isolated conversation held, or an isolated act done at. a later
period.* The reason is that the agent to do the act is not
authorized to narrate what he bad done or how he had done
it, and his declaration is no part of the "res gestm."
Applying this rule to the present case, how does it stand ?
The thing of which the plaintiffs complain was.negligence,
on the 30th of Septernber-a fatult in providing for Mrs.
Clough's embarkation on the steamer. -That, and that alone,
caused the inju'ry she sustained. That and nothing else was
the "res gestm." What the captain of the boat said of the
transaction two days afterwards was, therefore, but a narrative of a past occurrence, and for that reason it could not
affect his principals. It had no tendency to determine the
nature, quality, or character of the act done, or left undone,
and it is not, therefore, within the rule stated by Judge
Story. That rule has been recognized "in totidem verbis" in
Wiscousin by Chief Justice Dixon, in delivering the opinion

of the court in The Milwaukee and Mississippi Railroad Company v. Finney.t And there, is nothing in any of the decisions cited by the defendants in error inconsistent with
such a rule. The case of The Enterprise,cited from 2d Curtis,
was a suit in admiralty for subtraction of wages, and th
declarations of the master respecting the contract with the
seamen were admitted, though not 'a part of the res gest.
But the decision was rested upon the ground that the admiralty rule is different from. the rule at common law. Thd
case of Burnside V. The Grand Trunk Railroad Company, cited
from 47 i6ew Hampshire, simply decides that the statements
of the general fi'eight agent as to the condition of goods delivered to him for transportation made while the goods are
still in transit, or while the duty of the carrier continues,
are admissible in evidence against the company. This was
a case of contract riot executed, and, while it remained unexecuted, the. agent bad power to vary it; had, in fact, com* 1 Taylor on Evidence,

526.

t 10 Wisconsin, 388.

PACKET COMPANY V. CLOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

plete control over it. The transaction was still depending,
and the agent was still in the execution of an act which was
within the scope of his authority. But in the present case
the declarations admitted were not made in the transaction
of which the plaintiffs complain, or while it was pending.
They refer to nothing present. They are only a history of
the past.
It is argued they were made before the voyage upon which
Mrs. Clough entered was completed. True, they were, but
they were not the less mere narration. The accident was
past. The injury to Mrs. Clough was complete. The only
wrong she sustained, if any, had been consummated two
days before. We cannot think the fact that she had not
arrived at her port of destination is at all material. If she
had left the steamer before the declarations were made it is
not claimed, as certainly it could not be, that they were admissible. Now, suppose two persons were injured by the
negligence which the plaintiffs assert, and one of them had
left the boat before the captain's declarations were made,
clearly they would have been inadmissible in favor of the
person whose voyage bad been completed. This is not denied. Yet the connection between them and the accident
would be as close in that case as in this. Can they be admissible in the one case and not in the other? Assuredly
not. We must hold, therefore, that there was error in admitting in evidence the statement of the captain of the
steamboat made two days after the wrong was done of
which the plaintiffs complain.
The last assignment of error is the rejection of the deposition of Turner. Of this it is sufficient to say that we have
not before us either the deposition or any statement of what
it tended to prove. We cannot know, therefore, that it was
of aniy importance, or that, if it had been admitted, it could
have had any influence upon the verdict. A party who complains of the rejection of evidence must show that he was
injured by the "ejection. His bill of exceptions must make
it appear that if it had been admitted it might have led the

Oct. 1874.],

]EXPRESS COMPANY V. WARE.
Statement of the case.

jury to a different verdict. This must be understood as the
practice in this court, and such is the requirenent of our
twenty:first rule. By that rule it is ordered that when the
error assigned is to the admission or rejection of evidence,
the specification shall quote the full substance of the evidence offered, or copy the offer as stated in the bill-of exceptions. This is to enable the court to see whether the
evidence offered was material, for it would be idle to reverse
a judgment for the admission or rejection of evidence, that
could have had .no effect upon the verdict.
But for the reception of the statement made by the captain, shortly before the arrival of the boat at Davenport, the
judgment must be reversed.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and a
VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

EXPRESS COMPANY V. WARE.
1. This court will not examine evidence to ascertain whether a jury was justified. in finding, as it has done, on an issue of fact.
2. Where a statute of limitation enacts that h defendant's absence from the
State will prevent its running, but that "in the case of a foreign corporation, if it hasa managing agent ii the State, service of the writ
may be made on .him," on a question of fact arising in a suit brought
more than five years after the cause of action had accrued, whether
the defendant did or did not have a managing agent for the State prior
to the time when the suit was brought, it is propar to charge that the
time during which the plaintiff was disabled from suing by reason of
defendant having no managing agent in this State is not to be counted
as part of the five years' limitation period.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of N~ebraska;
the case being thus:
The Code of Nebraska bars actions upon contract in five
years. The defendant's absence from the State is not, how-

