MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

actions on all written contracts, sealed or unsealed, began to
run against the coupons in suit from their respective maAFFIRM THE JUDGMENT.
turities; and accordingly
CLIFFORD, J.: I dissent from the opinion of the court,
upon the ground that the case is governed by our prior
decisions.

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.
4
1. The second section of the act of Feb. 5th, 1867 (1 Stat. at Large, 385),

"to amend" the Judiciary Act of 1789, operates as a repeal of the
twenty-fifth section of that act; and, the act of 1867, as it is now found
709, is the sole law
in the Revised Statutes of the United State3,
governing the removal of causes from State courts to this court for
review, and has been since its enactment in 1867.
2. Congress did not intend, by omitting in this statute the restrictive clause
at the close of the twenty-fifth section of the act of 1789 (limiting the
Supreme Court to the consideration of Federal questions in cases so removed) to enact affirmatively that the court should consider all other
questions involved in the case that might be necessary to a final judgment or decree.
3. Nor does the language of the statute, that "the judgment may be reexamined and reversed or affirmed on a writ of error . . . in the same
manner and under the same regulatians, and the writ shall have the
same effect as if the judgment or decree complained of had been rendered or passed in a court of the United States," require the examination of any other than questions of Federal law.
4. The phrase above quoted has reference to the manner of issuing the writ,
its return with the record of the case, its effect in removing the case to
this court, and the general rules of practice which govern the progress
of such cases to final judgment, and is not intended to prescribe the
considerations which should govern this court in forming that judgment.
5. But the language of the statute in making the jurisdiction of this court
dependent on the decision of certain questions by the State court against
the right set up under Federal law or authority, conveys the strongest
implication that these questions alone are to be considered Vhen the
case is brought here for revision.
6. This view is confirmed by the course of decisions in this court for eighty
years, by the policy of Congress, as shown in numerous statutes, conferring the jurisdiction of this class of cases in courts of original jurisdiction, viz , the District and Circuit Courts, whether originally or by
removal from State courts, when it intends the whole case to be tried,
and by the manifest purpose which caused the passage of the law.

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK v. CITY OF MEMPis.

591

Statement of the case.
7. In construing the'act of 1867 as compared with the act of 1789, the court
declares itself to be of opinion that it is not so closely restricted, to the
face of the record in determining whether one of the questions mentioned in it has been decided in the State court, and that it may, under
ihis statbute, look to the properly certified opinion of the State courts
when any has been delivered in the case.
8. And it holds the following propositions as governing its examination and
its judgments and decrees in this class of cases, under the statute as now
found in the recent revision of the acts of Congress:
1. That it is essential to the jurisdiction of this court over the judgment
or decree of a State court that it shall appear that one of the questions mefitioned in the statute must have been raised and presented
to the State court; that it must have been decided by the State court
against the right claimed or asierted by the. plaintiff in error, under
the Constitution, treaties, laws, or authority of the United States, or
that such a decision was necessary to the judgmert or decree rendered
in the case.
2. These things appearing, this court has jurisdiction, and must examine
the judgment so far as to enabl e it to decide whether this claim of
right was correctly adjudicated by the State court.
8. If it finds thsit it was rightly decided, the judgment must be affirmed.
4. If it was erroneously decided, then the court must further inquire
whether there is -any other matter or issue adjudged by the State
court sufficiently broad to maintain the judgment, notwithstanding
the error in the decision of the Federal question. If this be fodnd to
be the case, the judgment must be affirmed without examination into
the soundness of the decision of such other matter or issue.
,5.But if it be found that the issue raised by the question of Federal law
must control the whole case, or that there has been no decision by
the State court of any other matter which is sufficient of itself to
maintain the judgmentthen this court will reverse that judgment,
and will either render such judgment here as the State court should
have rendered, or will remand the case to that court for further proceedings, as the circumstances of the case may require.
ERROR

to the Supreme Court of-Tennessee; the case being

thus:
The Constitution of the United States after vesting the
judicial power of the United States "in one Supreme Court,
and in such inferior courts as the Congress may from time
to time ordain and establish," ordains as foillowa:
"The judicial power shall extend to all cases in law and equity
arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States,
and treaties made under their authority," &c.

592

MURDOCK V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

On the 24th of September, 1789, at the first Congress of
the United States, after the adoption of the Constitution,
Congress passed the "act to establish the judicial courts of
the United States;"* the great act commonly called the Judiciary Act. The twenty-fifth section of it gave to this court
whatever power was given in the act at all to re-examine,
reverse, or affirm thv final judgments or decrees in suits in
the highest courts of law or equity of the States.
On the 5th of Feb., 1867, after the late rebellion had been
suppressed,-and just before the adoption of the fourteenth
amendment to the Constitution, which declares that "no
State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the
privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States "but while more or less disorlganizatioi of things remained
in the Southern Stat&s, Congress passed an adt entitled "Ai
act to amend an act to establish the judicial courts of the
United States."t This act was in two sections. The first
section gives to the courts of the United States, and tho
several judges thereof, within their respective jurisdictions,
in addition to the authority already conferred by law, power
to grant writs of habeas corpus in all cases where any person
may be restrained of liberty in violation of the Constitution,
or of any treaty or law of the Uiiited States.
The second-the one alone much concerning this case,was on the same subject as the twenty-fifth section of the
old act.
The twenty-fifth section of the old act and the second
section of the new one are here juxtaposited verbatim in
columns.
THE TWENTY-FIFTH SECTION OF THE

ACT OF 1789.
That a final judgment or decree in

THE SECOND SECTION OF THE
ACT OF 1867.

That a final judgment or decree in

any suit, in the highestcourt of lawor any suit in the highest court of a
equity of a State in which a decision State in which a decision in the suit

in the suit could be had, where is could be had, where is drawn in quesdrawn in question the validity of a tion the validity of a treaty or statute
treaty or statute of, or an authority of or an authority exercised under the
exercised under the United States, United States, and the decision is

*1

Stat. at :Large, 25.

t- 14 Id. 485.

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK V. OrTY OF MEMPHIS.

598

Statement of the case.
and the decision is against their validity; or where is drawn in question
the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under any State, on
the ground of their being repugnant
to the Constitution, treaties, or laws
of the United States, and the decision
is in favor of such their validity, or
where is drawn in guestion the construction of any clause of the C6nstitution, or of a treaty or statuteof, or
commission held under the United
States, and the decision is against the
title, right, privilege, or exemption
specially set up or claimed by either
party, under such, clause of the said
Constitution, treaty, statute, or commission, may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme
Court of the United States upon a writ
of error, the citation being signed by
the chief justice, or judge, or chancellor of thecourt ren)deringor passing
the judgment or decree complained
of, or by a justiqe of the Supreme
Court of the ,United States, in the
same manner and under the same
regulations, and thb writ shall have
the same effect as if the judgment or
decree complained of had been rendered or passed in a Circuit Court,and
the proceeding upon the reversal shall
also be the same, except that the Supreme Court, instead of remandingthe
causefor afinaldecision, as before provided, may at their discretion, if the
cause shall have been once remanded
before, proceed to a final decision of
the same and awardexecution. But nb
other rror shall be assigned or regarded as a ground -of reversal in any
such case as aforesaid than such as appears on theface of the record and imMediately respectsthe before-mentioned
questiqns of validity or construction of
the said Constitution, treaties,statutes,
commissions, or authoritiesin dispute.
VOL. XX.

against their validity, or where is
drawn in question the validity of a
statute of or an authority exercised
under any State, on the ground of
their-being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United
States, and the decision is in favor of
such their validity, or where any
title, right, privilege, or immunity is
claimed under the Constitution, or any
treaty or statute of, or commission
held, or autheority-exercised,under the
United States, and the decision is
against the title, right, privilege, or
immunity specially set up or claimed
by either party under such Constitution, treaty, statute, commission, or
authority, inay be re-examined and
reversed or affirmed- in the Supreme
Court of the United States, upon a
writ of error, the citation being signed
by thechiefjustice, or judge, or chancellor of the court rendering or passing the judgment or decree complained
of, or byajustice of the Supreme Court
of the United States, in the same manner, and under the same regulations,
and the writ shall have the same effect
as if the judgment or decree complained of had been rendered or passed
in a courtof the UnitedStates ; and the
proceeding -upon the reversal shall
also be tie same, except that the Supreme Court may, at their discretion,
proceed to afinaldecision of the same,
and award execution or remand, the
same to an inferior court.

8

MURDOCK V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The published proceedings of the two houses of Congress
show that the bill, which subsequently became a law, was
reported by a committee which had been instructed " to
inquire and report what legislation was necessary to enable
the courts of the United States to enforce the freedom of
the wives and children of soldiers of the United States,
under the joint resolution of Congress of March 3d, 1865,
and the liberty of all persons under the operation of the
constitutional amendment abolishing slavery." The bill, so
far as the point 'now under consideration is concerned, was
not the subject of special comment. The effect of it was declared by the member of the House of Representatives who
reported it from the committee, to be "to enlarge the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus."* In the Senate an inquiry was made "whether the second section was drawn on
the same principle as the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary
Act of 1789." The reply was, "It is a little broader than
the Judiciary Act. It is of a similar character."t
Thus, apparently it happened that the fact that Congress
had passed the act of 1867, was hardly noted for some time
within the precincts of this bar-where the venerable Judiciary Act of 1789 was in some sort regarded as only less
sacred than the Constitution, and most unlikely to be wished
to be altered-and that the less studious observers considered that the new section was but a careless transcript of the
old one. However, the more careful readers were early
awakened by possibilities of meanings in the second section
of the new act which would have far-reaching effects. Mr.
Phillips in his work on Practice,t in this court, early observed that the new act "in some of' its previsions and
omissions seems to have been intended to work a change
in the exercise of the jurisdiction of the court.'" So in the
case of Stewart v. .Kahn,§ the difference between the two
acts was enforced by Mr. S. M. Johnson, counsel, on one side
of the case who claimed for it vast effects.
Congressional Globe, first session 89th Congress, part 5, page 4151.

t lb. page 4229.
A.D. 1870, 11 Wallace, 500.

1, Page 128.

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.
Statement of the cage.

A. careful reading of the act shows, indeed, to every one.
certain verbal changes. Thus.:
1st. By the old act, this court could not proceed to final
judgment and award execution, except in cases where the
cause "had been once remanded before."
1 By the new act,,this limitation is omitted, and the court
is authorized in all cases at thleir discretion, to render
judgment aqd award execution.
2d. By the old law the jurisdiction is vested in cases
where is drawn in question the construction of any clause of
the Constitution, or treaty,.or statute, or'commission.
In the new, we have the use of'these other words,
"or where any right, title, privilege, or immunity is'
claimed," under the Constitution, &c.
3d. By the old law it was required that what is called
"the Federal question" must "appear on the face of the
record."
In the new, the words making this requisition are
omitted.
4th. By the old law, "no other error could be assigned or
regarded as ground of reversal, than such as immediately
related to the validity or construction of the Constitution,
treaties, statutes, commissions, or authorities in dispute."
In the new, the words putting this limitation on the jurisdiction disappear, and makes an argument plausible that Congress or the d raughtsman of the act had
meant to say that if a Federal question once existed
in the case, and this court so got jurisdiction of the
case, then it was bound to go on. and decide every
question in it, though these questions were questions
of local law, and such as; in numberless cases, the
court bad decided that, under the old section and in
consequence of the now omitted language at the close
of it, could not be passed on here.
Referring to this last change, its operation seemed so important and its bearing on the twenty-fifth section so direct,

596

MURDOCK V. CITY 0r MEMPiIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

in a matter oftener discussed and decided by this court than
any question ever submitted- to it; that it was difficult for
some persons to conclude that the legislator who drew the
bill, and the legislature that adopted it, did not comprehend
that the bill was effecting a radical change in the exercise
of tie jnrisdictioi of the court.
However, it was obvious that as long as in the cases
brought up here, either,
Ist.. No Federal question at all existed in the case, OR,
2d. The Federal question, where one did exist, had been
wromqly decided in the court beloW,-aiid there was no local
question on which the case might have been disposed ofThere was nto necessity to pass upon the effect of the concluding sentences of the new s~etion. The case would come
'within both the old and new. The necessity to consider
the effect of the new act would, however, arise on the first
occasion when some case should come before the court, in
which (1st), there was a Federal question, (2d), where that
question had been rightly decided, and (3d), where there
were, besides, local questions which would dispose of the
case, and which the plaintiff in error alleged had been
wrongly adjudged below. Such a case now seemed to be
here.
The case was thus:
Mirdock filed a bill in one of the courts of chancery of
Tennessee, against the city of Memphis, in that State. The
bill and its exhibits made this case:
In July, 1844,-Congress having just previously authorized the establishment of a naval depot in that city, and 'appropriated a considerable sum of money for' the purposethe ancestors of Murdock-by ordinary deed of bargain and
sale, without any covenants or declaration of trust on which
the land was to be held by the city, but referring to the fact
of "the location of the naval depot lately established by the
United States at said town "-conveyed to the city certain
land-described in and near its limits "for the location of the
naval depot aforesaid."

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK

V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

597

Statement of, the case.

By the same instrument (a, quadrupartite one) both the
grantors and the city conveyed the same land to one Wheatley, ih fee, in trust- for the grantors and their heirs, ' in
case the same shillnot be appropriated by the United States
for that purpose."
Oil the 14th of September, 1844, the city of Memphis, in
consideration of the sum of $20,000 paid by the United
States, conveyed the said land to the United States with
covenant of general warranty; there being, however, in this
deed to the United States no designation of any purpose to
which the ]and was to be applied, nor any conditions precer
dent or subsequent, or of any kind whatsoever.
The United States took possession of the ]and for the purpose of the erection of a ndval' depot upon it, erected buildings, and madevarious expenditures and improvement br
the said purpose.; but in about ten years after, by an act ot
August 5th, 1854,* transferred the land back to the city.
The act was in these words:
"All the grounds and appurtenances thereunto belonging,'
known as the Memphis Navy Yard, in Shelby County, Tennepsee, be, and the same is hereby, ceded to the mayor and aldermen of the city of Memphis, for the use and'benfit of said city."
There was no allegation in the bill that the city was in
any way instrumental in procuring this transfer or the abandonment of the site as a naval depot; on the contrary, it is
averred that the city authorities endeavored to prevent both.
The bill charged that by the failure of the United States to
appropriate the land for a naval depot, and the final abandonment by the United States of any intention to do so, the
land came within the clause of the deed of July, 1844, conveying it to Wheatley in trust; or if noti that it was held
by the city in trust for the original grantors,- and the prayer
sought to subject it to said trusts.
The answer, denying the construction put upon the deedof 1844, which established a trust, asserted that the land had
been appropriated by the United States as a naval depot
* 10 Stat. qt Large, 686.

MURDOCK

V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

within the meaning and intent of the deed of July, 1844,
and that the subsequent perpetual occupation of it was not
a condition subsequent; and consequently that the abandonment of it as a naval depot was not a breach of a condition
such as divested the title so conveyed by the deed.
It pleaded the statute of limitations. It also demurred to
the bill as seeking to enforce a forfeiture for breach of condition subsequent.
The court sustained the demurrer, and also decreed that
the city had a perfect title to the property against the complainants both under the act of Congress and the statute of
limitations, and dismissed the bill. The Supreme Court of
Tennessee affirmed this decree.
That court was also of opinion, and so declared itself to
be, that the act of Congress "cedes the property in controversy iti this cause to the mayor and aldermen of the city
of Memphis, for the use of the city only, and not in trust
for the complainant; and that the complainant takes no
benefit under the said act."
The complainant thereupon sued out a writ of error to
this court.
The case was first argued January 21st, 1873.
Messrs. W. I. Scott and J. B. .lieskell, for the plaintiff in
error:
1. Is there a Federal question, so that the court can take jurisdiction? There is such a question. The ancestor of Murdock conveyed to the city and Wheatley on condi tion, or
more properly speaking perhaps, in trust. Neither party
could discharge himself of the trust. When the city conveyed to the United States, the United States took the land
fettered with a trust. When the United States reconveyed
to the city, they, of necessity, conveyed in trust. The fact
that the deed said that it conveyed to the city "for its own
use" does not alter the case. If a trustee, in fraud of a declared trust, cor,. -ys to another for the use of that )ther,
that '-ther )lds not for his own use but for the cestui que
trust. fherefore, we set up and claim a right under the

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK V. OITY OF MEMPHIS.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

act of Congress.

N o right arose to us but for that act.

When the act reconveyed the property to the city there was
an abandonment, a breach of the trust or condition on which
the property had been conveyed. The grantors or their
heir, the present complainant, took it. There is, therefore,
a Federul question, and that question has been decided
against us.
2. That question was decided wrongly, as our remarks just
made show.
Whether the new act changes the old twenty-fifth section
or not the judgment below must be reversed, and the case
remanded.
3. But, however our second point may be-that. is to
say, whether the Federal question was decided wrongly or
rightly, and conceding that it was decided rightly-then
although in consequence of the closing sentence of the old
twenty-fifth section,* no question of law merely local could
formerly be considered here,.yet that closing part being now
left off, the restriction on this court to consider this class of
questions is removed; and it being once shown that there
is a Federal question in the case to give this court jurisdiction, the court must re-examine, affirm, or reverse the decision of the State court on these local 4uestious as well as
on the Federal question. This, doubtless, was what was
meant by Mr. Justice Swayne in Stewart v. Kahn, where,
distinguishing between changes merely verbal throughout
the section and the great omission at its close, that learned'justice says :t
"The section is to a great extent a transcript of the twentyfifth section of the prior act. There are several alterations
which are not material, but at the close of the second section
there is a substantialomission."
[The learned counsel on an assumption of the correctness
of this position, then went on to argue that the decision of
the court below on the pleas of the statute of limitations,
&c., was erroneous.]
* Supra, p. 593.

t 11 WVallace, 502.

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

Messrs. W. T. Otto, B. I.

Estes, J. M. Carlisle, and J. D.

McPherson, contra:
1. There is no Federalquestion, and consequently no jurisdiction
in this court to pass on anything. If there was a trust in the
case, it was made not by the act of Congress, but by the
deed of the grantors. No title, right, or privilege was specially set up or claimed by the complainant under the act,
and the act is mentioned in his bill only as an item in the
history of things, indicating the time when his right, if he
had one, arose. The decree that the comphlinant took no
benefit under the act does not bring the case within the
twenty-fifth section, because-it is not stated that the complaipant ever claimed any title under it, and the language
does not nbcessarily imply that he did. The language of the
court means simply that the city took title under the act of
Congre~s for its own use, and not in trust for any one else.
2. If there was a Federalquestion, the question was rightly decided. It was rightly decided for many reasons. One is
enough, and that is that there was no breach of condition or
trust, but on the contrary performance or execution. If
there was any condition or trust, it was that the property
should be conveyed to the United States for the purpose of
,a naval depot. It was so conveyed. The condition-if there
was a condition-was performed; the trust-if there was a
trust-was executed when the United States established
the navy yard upon the land in question. Mead v. Ballard,*
is in point. There a grant was made 'upon the express
understanding and condition" that an institution should be
permanently located upon the granted premises, and that
on failure of such location within a year from the date of
the deed, and on repayment of the purchase-money without interest, the premises should revert to, and become the
property of, the owners. The building was erected within
the time named. It was afterwards burned, and the trustees thei erected other buildings upon some contiguous.
property. This court held that the condition ivas performed
* 7 Wallace, 290.

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

601

Argument for the defendant in error.

when the trustees passed a resolution locating the building
on the premises, with the intent that they should be the permanent place of business of the corporation, and that it did
not operate as a covenant to build and rebuild, or keep the
building on the land for an indefinite time.
8. if it was not rightly decided the matter is unimportant.
The record shows that there were other questions, exclusively of State cognizance, sufficient to dispose of the case.
The demurrer having been to the whole bill, and being sustained, disposed of the case. The defendants pleaded the
statute of limitations, and the case being heard on the merits,
the court decided that the defendants had a good title under
it. This disposed of the whole case. The writ of error
should, therefore, he dismissed.*
The position taken by opposing counsel as to the effect of
the re-enactment of Feb. 5th, 1867, is radical in the extreme.
It would subvert every principle which has ever governed
this court in reference to the adjudications by State courts
on State law. What is quoted from Stewart v. Kahn was
said txtra-judicially. Besides, there may be "a substantial
omission" in the new act, and many such omissions, and
yet no such far-reaching effect as is here claimed for them
follow; an effect, so far as concerns State jurisprudence,

which is revolutionary.

CURIA ADVISARI VULT.

As appeared by the final judgment given in the base, the
court, upon advisement, was of the opinion,
1st. That the'e was a Federal question involved.
2d. That it was decided rightly.
Accordingly the case, When thus under advisement, presented the exact conditions referred to, s~zpra, p. 596, and
under which it would become necessary carefully to consider the effect of the act of Feb. 5th, 1867. It became
necessary, therefore, to pass upon the third point above discussed by counsel; discussed, however, not so fully as the
primary points of their case, nor otherwise *than as points
* Gibson v. Chouteaiu 8 Wallace, 814.

602 ,

'/MURDOCK

V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. at.

Argument in favor of the repeal.

which might arise. The court accordingly now, March 10th,
1873, ordered the case to be reargued on the following
propositions:
"1. Does the second section of the act of February 5th, 1867,
repeal all or any part of the twenty-fifth section of the act of
1789, commonly called the Judiciary Act?
"2. Is it the true intent and meaning of the act of 1867, above
referred to, that when this court has jurisdiction of a case, by
reason of any of the questions therein mentioned, it shall proceed to decide all the questions presented by the record which
are necessary to a final judgment or decree ?
"If this question be answered affirmatively, does the Constitution of the United States authorize Congress to confer such a
jurisdiction on this court?"
And it invited argument, oral or by brief, from any counsel interested in cases where these questions were important.
The case was now, April 2d and 3d, 1873, reargued by the
same counsel for the plaintiff in error as before; Mir. P. Phillips,
in addition, as amicus curive, expressing his views orally, and
the late Mr. B. B. Curtis, in the same character, having submitted
some observations in print.*
I. The old twenty-fifth section is repealed.
The two laws differ in the following particulars:
1. In defining the cases over which the appellate power
shall extend.
2. In the regulations each prescribes for the exercise of
this appellate power.
The later statute was manifestly intended to cover and
provide for the subject-matter of the earlier law, and to
qualify the provisions of the earlier law not only by omission, but by addition and alteration. In such a case the
later repeals the earlier act by necessary implication.
There were also at the time before the court briefs in other cases, where
the questions about the effect of the new act were discussed. In the report
now made of what was said at the bar the points made by the counsel separately are, of course, presented only as a whole; no attempt being made to
assign to each what he chiefly or alone may have pressed.

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

603

Argument in favor of the extendedljurisdibtion.

I. If tie act of 1789 be repeated, does the act of 1867 authorize the Supreme Court of the United States to review all questions
in the record, or is the jurisdiction co fined to the Federal questions ?
1. The language of the act declares that the "judgment
or decree may be re-examined, and reversed or affirmed, in
the Supreme Court of the United States, upon a writ of
error (and in proper cases upon an appeal), in the same manner
and under the same regdations as if it had been- passed in a
court of the United States." And the "writ shall have the
same effect as if the judgment or decree" had so passed.
2. In order rightly to ascertain the force of this provision,
we must not lose sight of the matter omitted. The restriction expressly interposed in the former act was placed there
because it was considered that without such express language
no restriction could be implied from the previous clause of
the enactment. Hence, in the former act the prohibition
was inserted inpositive terms. Now, in the revising act, it
is omitted, and the conclusion is that the restriction no
longer exists.
As early as the case of Durousseau v. The United States,*
Marshall, 0.J., used this language:
:Had the judicial act created the Supreme Court, without
defining or limiting its jurisdiction, it must have been considered as possessing all the jurisdiction which the Constitution
assigned to it. .

.

. And in omitting to oxercise the right of ex-

cepting from its constitutional powers, would have necessarily
left those powers undiminished. The appellate powers of this
court are not given by the judicial act; they are given by the
Constitution. Bat they are limited and regulated by the judicial act."

It is evident that Marshall, d. J., had reference to the express limitation contained in the last clause of the twentyfifth section of the act of 1789. For in Osborn v. The Bank,t
he gives the opinion of the court, that under the Constitution extending the "judicial power to all CASES in law and
* 6 Cranch, 814; and see Gelston v. Hoyt, 8 Wheaton, 826.
- 9 Id. 820.

MURDOCK V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the extended jurisdiction.

equity arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United
States, and treaties made or which shall be made under their
authority, that the judicial department receives jurisdiction
to the full extent of the Constitution, laws, &c."
3. When a party asserts his -right before a court in the
forms prescribed by law, it then. becomes a "case" to which
this judicial power extends.
This includes the right of both parties to the litigation;
and the case may be said to "arise," whenever its correct
decision depends iqpon the construction of said Constitution,
laws or treaties.
. If the Constitution had intended to limit the jurisdiction,
as is done by the twenty-fifth section, the appropriate language for this purpose has not been used. The power is
not extended merely to "questions," but to "cases."
The limitation of the twenty-fifth section being virtually
repealed by its omission in. the act of 1867, denotes clearly
the intention of Congress that' when a Federal question
exists, the full constitutional power should be exercised, and
that the court should decide the "case," and this necessarily
includes all questions presented by it.
4. The phraseology of tho acts supports our views. It
is not that the judgment or decree may be examined, but
re-examined. There can be no re-examination of a matter
that has not been theretofore examined; and this right to
re-examine, that is to examine over again the judgment or
decree, would have involved as full and complete an examination as had before been given, if it were not that this
re-examination was confined and made partial by the limitation imposed.
The conclusion is, that Congress, by allowing to this court
this power, had in contemplation that it should dispose, of
the whole case.
5. Again. The writ cannot have the same effect as if the
judgment or decree had been rendered or passed in a court
of the United States, unless all the errors were passed upon;
and as there is no longer any prohibition of errors that may
be assigned or regarded, but the express prohibition here-

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

605

Argument in favor of the extended jurisdiction.

tofore existing is annulled; itfollows that this statute must
have effect according to its ltnguage, and it must be considered that the legislature, in removing the express qualification, leaving the antecedent unqualified, intended to corn
mit it to its literal interpretation.
6. In addition. The act of 1867 authorizes this court in its
discretion "to proceed to final decision and award execution,
or remand the same (i. e., the cause) to an inferior court."
The highest courtof the State is thus treated as an "inferior
court;" and power is given to pass it by entirely, as if the
judgment had been rendered in a Circuit Court of the United
States. This tends to show that full and adequate capacity
was meant to be given to -this court to re-examine the whole
case.
7. Finally. The new statute was passed just after the
overt acts of opposition had been suppressed by the force of
Federal arms, but while it was uncertain how far th'e spirit
of opposition, though covert, yet remained both alive and
active. The use, in the new act, of the flew word "im n unities," edmes plainly from the fourteenth amendment then
first before the nation, and it clearly points to the purpose
of that amendment; an amendment meant to extirpate all
power of mischief in even that spirit of opposition. The new
act shows an apprehension that Federal justice would be
obstructed by local and State animosities and revenges, and
that Federal question s might really be passed on in State
courts, but the proof of adjudication artfully suppressed on
the record. For this reason it was that the new act-onits
the provision ii the old twenty-fifth section, "that no other
error shall be assigned or -regarded as ground of reversal
than such as appears on the face of the record." And for a
kindred reason-that is to say, to place the whole jurisprudence of the country under the protection of this great
Federal tribunal of the nation, and to let all citizens feel
everywhere and always, as a fixed reality, the fact that
the Constitution of the United States and the laws of Congress passed in pursuance thereof, ARE the "supreme law of
the land "-for these reasons we say, and that every ques-

MURDOCK V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument against the repeal.

tion passed on by the State courts might be open to reconsideration here, was the other part of the clause omitted
from the new act, that no other error shall be assigned or
regarded as ground of reversal than such as... immediately
respects the beforementioned questions of validity or construction
of said Constitution, treaties, statutes, commissions, or authorities
in dispute.
Contemporaneous acts of Congress enforce this view.
During and just after the rebellion, Congress, for the political causes to which we'have referred as supporting our view,
gave to the Circuit and District Courts of the United States
jurisdiction over many questions which it had previougly
left to the exclusive control of the State courts.*
LIII. The learned counsel then argued that the second
section of the new act was constitutional.]
Messrs. TV. T. Otto, B. XT.Estes, J. MW.Carlisle, and J. D.
fcPherson, contra:
Conceding, for the argument, that the act of 1867 covers
the whole subject-matter of the old twenty-fifth section upon
every other point, we insist that the "subject-matter" of
the last clause of the old section is not covered or affected
thereby, and that this clause is yet in force. There is
nothing in the act of 1867 repugnant to thi§ last clause of
the old section, and the subject-matter thereof is in no wise
covered by the new section. It is not only possible, but it
is easy to reconcile the two and give effect to both.
The title of the act is, "An act to amend an act to establish the judicial courts of the United States." The intention of Congress was then to "amend," not to "repeal," and
at most, the effect of the new act is to strike out all of the
old section, except the last clause, and to insert the new enactment in the stead of the part stricken out.t This construction accords with well-settled rules, and is favored by
the argument that it is not to be supposed that Congress
See these acts referred to, infra, p. 631.-

.p.

j- United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheaton, 610 : Hadden v. Collector, 5 Wallace, 107.

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

607

Argument against the extended jurisdiction.

intended, without express language to that effect, to abrogate
a salutary provision which lad been in force and well understood for thiree-quarters of a century, and which at least was
supposed to be a part of a judicial system which had the
Constitution for its chief corner-stone.
In Wood v. United States,* the law of repeals by implication is thus rightly stated:
"It is not sufficient to establish that subsequent laws cover
some or even all of'the cases provided for by it, for they may
be merely affirmative, or cumulative, or auxiliary. But there
must be a positive repugnancy between the provisions of the
new law and those of the old, and even then the old law is
repealed by implication only, pro tanto, to the extent of the
repugnancy."
The intention of the act of 1867 was to enlarge somewhat
the provisions of the old twenty-fifth section, but not to repeal it. If this construction is not adopted, the conclusion
is inevitable, that the main object of Congress in passing
the. second section of the new act was to annul the last
clause of the old twenty-fifth section, and that it sought to do
so by a most singularmeans.
The repugnancy between the two sections, which opposing counsel assert, is not real. If the clause with the exception and the clause without the exception cannot stand
together, then the clause with the exception, as it stood in
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, was repugnant
in itself, and that section was composed of inconsistent and
irreconcilable ptovisions. This construction cannot be entertained.
II. Is'the intent dnd meaning of the act of 1867 that the court
shall proceed to decide all the questions..presented by the record
which are necessary to afinaljudgment or decree, when it has once
got jurisdictionof a case by reason of any Federal question in it?
The way in which the act of 1867 was introduced into
* 16 Peters, 362; and see White v. Johnson, 23 Mississippi, 68; Ellis v.
Paige, 1 Pickering, 45; Nichols v. Squire, 5 Id. 168; Bartlet v. King, 12
Massachusetts, 645.

MURDOCK V. CITY OF

MEmiPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the extended jurisdiction.

Congress and passed through it,* confirms the idea that the
answer to this question must be a negative one. No purpose was avowed to empower or require this court, on a-writ
of error to a State court, to pass upon any question in the
record which turns upon the common law of a State or the
interpretation of its constitution or statutes, when neither is
in conflict with the National authority. It is to be presumed
theit no such purpose existed. The intent to vest a general
revisory power, which, since the adoption of the Constitution, has never been exerted over the State tribunals, should
be expressed in clear and unmistakable terms.
It is not expressly given by the second section. The provision in each section touching the "effect" of the writ of
error and the omission of the last clause of the old section,
coupled with the assumed fact that it either limited some
power conferred by that provision, or prescribed the mode
of exercising it, are the only grounds upon which the enlarged jurisdiction has been asserted. That provision obviously relates only to the mode of removing the record to
this court, and to the regulations by which that object is
accomplished. The clause, if divisible, declares: First, that
io other error shall be assigned, or regtrded as a'ground of
reversal, than such as appears on the face of the record.
Second, that the error, when assigned, shall immediately
respe~t the questions mentioned in the section:
The word "suit" occurs both in the old and in the new
section. The word means the prosecution of some demand
in a court of justice, and applies to a judicial proceeding,
either at law or in equity, in which a party pursues a remedy
which the law affords him.t The omission in the act of
1867, of the words 11of law or equity;" is entirely unimportant. An appeal is the only mode by which a Cause of an
equitable nature or in admiralty can be brought from an inferior court of the United States for revision, and it extends
to matters of fact as well as of law; while a "final judg,ment or decree in any suit" in a State court can only be
*.See

this matter stated, supra,p. 594:-REP.

t Weston v. The City Cou,.. of Charleston, 2 Peters, 449.

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.
Argument against the extended jurisdiction.

"re-examined" here on a writ of error. That writ is of
common-law origin, and ''lies only for matters of law arising upon the face of the proceeding."* The re-examination
on the return of the writ would therefore, necessarily, and
without any limiting words, be confined to such matters.
Congress, by the twenty-fifth section, gave a legislative
interpretation to the only clauses of the Qonstitution which
can be construed to give this court control over the action
of the State courts. The concluding words were inserted
to define that control, not to restrain it within narrower
limits than the Constitution had -imposed; and this was
done to relieve the subject from all controversy, and to allay
apprehensions which then widely prevailed as to the judicial
branch of the government.
The judiciary clause was adopted by the Convention at
Philadelphia with apparent unanimity and without prolonged
discussion. It, with other leading features of the Constitution, was vehemently assailed before the public, .nd in the
State conventions, by many of the conspicuous statesmen of
that day.
George Mason wrote that "the judiciary of the United
States is so constructed and extended as to absorb and destroy the judiciaries of the several States."t In the Vir-"
ginia convention he said that he was "greatly mistaken if
there be any limitation whatever with respect to the nature
or jurisdiction of these (Federal) courts."t Indeed, the historical fact is familiar that the enemies of the Constitution
maintained that it established a consolidated government,
and that the judiciary of the States would be overruled and
absorbed. Jay, the Pinckneys, Hamilton, Marshall, Madison, and other friends of the Gonstitution answered the objections and insisted that, by no just rule of construction could
such extraordinary and dangerous powers be justly ascribed
to it. None of these great men intimated that the action
of the State courts could be revised by the judiciary department, except on questions purely Federal.
3 Blackstone's Commeniaries, 407.
8 Id. 521.
VOL. XX.

89

t- Elliott Debates, 475.

MURDOCK V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the extended jurisdiction.

That masterpiece or legislation which we call the "Judiciary Act" originated in the Senate. It was reported by a
committee, one of whom became Chief Justice of the United
States,* and another ajustice of thig court."t Five of them
had been deputies to the Convention which framed the Constitution.t As the Senate then sat with closed doors we
have no record of its debates; but, in the House of Representatives, no member maintained that the judicial power
of the United States, when exerted over the consummated
proceedings of a State court, extended beyond the determination of the Federal questions involved.
The authors of the Judiciary Act and the Congress which
,passed it belonged to that .party-which held that the Federal
authority, exerted to the fullest limits consistent with the
C(onstitution, was indispensable to the peace and unity of
the country, and doubtless they all meant to extend it as far
as, constitutionally, they could. The.twenty-fiffli section
was at one time denounced as unconstitutional by one class
of statesmen and by courts, and attempts have been made
by State laws to defeat its operation. The jurisdiction under
it, however, has been so wisely and beneficently exercised,
and has done so much to perpetuate, in its vigor and purity,
the Constitution of the country, that it has finally commanded general acquiescence. No serious effort has been
made in Congress to alter its essential provisions or impair
their efficacy, nor, unless such be the effect of the act of
1867, to give them a broader scope. It may be justly regarded as an extemporaneous and authoritative exposition
of the limits of the Federal power in its bearing on the legislative and judicial action of the States. Marshall, C. J.,
.inCohens v. Virginia,§ remarks:
Oliver Ellsworth.
t William Paterson.
2 Oliver Elkworth, William Paterson, Caleb Strong, Richard Bassett,
William Few, who with William Maclay, Richard Henry Lee, and Paine
Wingate, were the Senate committee, appointed, April 8th, 1789, to bring
in a bill to organize the judiciary of the United States, were members of the
Convention which framed the Constitution, although the naffies of neither
Strong nor Ellsworth appear among those of the signers of it.
6 Wheaton, 264.

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOcK v. CITY OF MEMPHIS.
Argument against the extended jurisdiction.

"Congress seems to have intended to give its own construction of this part of the Constitution in the.twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act, and we perceive no reason to depart from
that construction."
The clause should then be held as declaratory of a rule of
the common law as well. as of a constitutional provision.
From its absence from the second section no intention of
Congress to extend the jurisdiction beyond its ancient limits
can be inferred.
I' the decision of the Federal question by the highest
State court is correct, the judgment is affirmed. It is difficult
to perceive why action should be taken here on any other
matter in controversy which has no direct'necessary bearing
upon this material and controlling question. It will never
be required in disposing of a suit, unless the court should
assume to act upon the questions which turn exclusively
upon the common law of a State or the interpretation of its
constitution and laws.
This court has hatitually accepted "as a rule of decision"
the adjudications of the State courts on such questions in all
cases arising within the respective States. It has held that
"a fixed and received construction" of the statutes of d
State in its own courts makes a part of the statutes. It
adopts the local law of real property as ascertained by the
decisions of the State courts, whether those decisions are
grounded on the construction of the statutes or on the unwritten law of the State. When those courts revoke their
former decisions, it follows the latest settled adjudications.
This ddctrine has been maintained in an unbroken series of
decisions, commencing with .McKeen v. De Lancey's Lessee.*
It is not to be presumed that Congress, with a full knowledge of the history and traditions of the court, intended to
confer jurisdiction over the State tribunals upon any question where their decisions had been theretofore regarded as
conclusive-a jurisdiction demanded by no public necessity,
and productive of no good results..
5 Craneh, 22.

MURDOCK V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the extended jurisdiction.

1. As to the necessity for such extended jurisdiction. It
is true that an 'inferior court of the United States, having
exclusive original cognizance of suits by reason of their
subject-matter, is fully authorized to pass upon any question
arisin' intheir progress, or involved in their adjudication
although such question may not depend upon a principle of
Federal jurisprudence. Otherwise, the rights asserted could
not be judicially enforced, as the injured party can resort to
no other powe,'. Osborn v. The -Bank of the United Slates,.
bited on the other side, maintains substantially this doctrine.
It does not refer to the limits of the revisory power of this
court or to the effect of the last clause of the twenty-fifth
section. That power extends, with such exceptions and
under such regulations as Congress may provide, to judgments and decrees rendered by any Federal tribunal in suits
which are brought therein, or which, pursuant to the legislation of Congress, are removed thereto, and may correct
all errors in matter of law, and sometimes of fact. But the
relations which the State courts sustain to this court are not
those of an iniferior court of the United States. Congress
cannot impose duties upon them, nor invest them -with judicial power. They were created by the several States to interpret and give effect to their respective constitutions and
laws, and to administer justice according to law. Nothing
in their history, iu the character of their jurisprudence, or
in the condition of the country-and these may be considered in construing the act of 1867-shows the least necessity for empowering this court to supervise the exercise of
their jurisdiction over so much of the matter in controversy,
As must be determined by the State law, simply on the
ground that'the record presents a question decided adversely
to the party, who claims a right derived from, or protected
by, the Constitution and laws, or a treaty of the United
States. Human ingenuity may be challenged to offer a
reason why "the judgment or decree" of the State court
should be reversed here upon a point having no relation. to,
or connection with, the question, in the absence -of which

Oct. '1874.]

MURDOCK

V.

CITY

OF MEMPHIS.

Argument against the extended jurisdiction.

this court, would confessedly have no jurisdiction whatever
of the suit.
2. As to the results. The effects and consequences of the
interpretation of the act for which the plaintiff in error asks,
present a legitimate subject of inquiry'. However wisely and
justly the jurisdiction which he claims for this court might
be exercised, its inevitable tendency would be to impair that
control over their domestic concerns, which the States and
their tribunals have hitherto possessed.. The other results
are too obvious to require to be presented.'
The second section of the act of 1867 presents with the
utmost clearness and precision every question which in the
progress of a cause in the State courts call be decided adversely to the National authority. It was to vindicate that
authority, which is, by universal acknowledgment, supreme
within the limits of the Constitution, and to secure unifornity in the interpretation of that instrument, and of the
laws and treaties of the United States, that Congress provided a resort to this, from a State court. Any broader interpretation of the section would do violence, to its reason,
spirit, and intention.
The answer to the second proposition should, therefore,
be in the negative.
[III. The learned cdunsel then argued that the Oonstitutioni did not authorize Congress to confer on this court such
a jurisdiction as was claimed for it by the opposing side.]
On the 22d of June, 1874 (some time after all this argument was concluded), Congress, passed its g:eat act of that
date, embracing "the statutes of the United States, general
and permanent in their nature, in force on tile 1st of December, 1873, as revised and consolidated by commissioners
appointed under an act of Congress;" the act commonly
known as that making tile "Revised Statutes of -e United
States." In these Revised Statutes, the act of Feb. 5th, 1867,
makes section 709, but the concluding clause of the act of
September 24th, 1789, "but no other errofs," & ., makes
no psf-Vof the Revised Statutes.

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Preliminary remarks.

Mr. Justice MILLER (now, January 11th, 1875) delivered
the opinion of the court.
In tile year 1867 Congress passed an act, approved February 5th, entitled an act to amend " An act to establish the
judicial courts of the United States, approved September
the 24th, 1789."* This act consisted of two sections, the
first of which conferred upon the Federal courts and upon
the judges of those courts additional power ii regard to
writs of habeas corpus, and regulated appeals and other proceedings in that class of cases. The second section was a
reproduction, with some changes, of the twenty-fifth section
of the act of 1789, to which, by its title, the act of 1867 was
an amendment, and it related to the appellate jurisdiction
of this court over judgments and decrees of State courts.
The difference between the twenty-fifth section of the act
of 1789 and the second section of the act of 1867 did not
attract much attention, if any, for some time after the passage of the latter. Occasional-allusions to its effect upon
the principles long established by this court under the former began at length to make their appearance in the briefs
and oral arguments of counsel, but were not found to be so
important as to require any decision of this court on the
subject.
But in several cases argued within the last two or tlree
years the proposition has been urged upon the court that
the latter act worked a total repeal of the twenty-fifth section
of the former, and introduced a rule for the action of this
court in the class of cases to which 'they both referred, of
such extended operation and so variant from that -which had
governed it heretofore that the subject received the serious
consideration of the court. It will at once be perceived that
the question raised was entitled to the most careful examination and to all the wisdom and learning, and the exercise
of the best judgment which the court could bring to bear
upon its solution, when it is fairly stated.
The proposition is that by a fair construction of the act of
* 14 Stat. at Large, 885.

Oct. 1874.]

IuRDOcK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.
Opinion of the court.-Preliminary remarks.

1867 this court must, when it obtains jurisdiction of a case
decided in a State court, by reason of one of the questions
stated in the act, 'proceed to decide every other questio'll
which the case presents which may be found lnecessary to a
final judgment on the whole merits. To this has been added
the further suggestion that-in determining whetlier the question on which the jurisdiction of this court depends, has been
raised 1n.any given case, we are not limited to the record
which conies to us from the State court-the record proper
of the case as understood at common law-but we may -resort to any such method of ascertaining what was really
done in the State court as this court may think proper, even.
to ex Parte affidavits.
When the case standing at the head of this opinion came
on to be argued, it was insisted by counsel for defendants
in error that none of the questions were involved in the chse
necessary to give jurisdiction to this court, either under the
act of 1789 or of 1867, and that if they were, there were
other questions exclusively of State court cognizance which
were sufficient to dispose of the case, and that, therefore,,
the writ of error should be dismissed.
Counsel for plaintiffs in error, on the other hand, argued
that not 6 nly was there a question in the case decided against
them which authorized the writ of error* from this court
under either act, but that this court having for this reason
obtained jurisdiction of the case, should re-examine all the
questions found in the record, though some of them might
be questions of general common law or equity, or raised by
State statutes, unaffected by any principle of Federal law,
constitutional or otherwise.
When, after argument, the court came to consider the
case in consultation, it was found that it could not be disposed of without ign9ring or deciding some of these propositions, and it became apparent that the time had arrived
when the court must decide upon the effect of the ict of
1867 on the jurisdiction of this court as it had been supposed
to be established by the twenty-fifth section of the act of
1789.

MURDOCK V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-First question: The 25th section is repealed.

That we might.have all the aid which could be had from
discussion of counsel, the court ordered a reargument of the
case on three distinct questions which it proponded, and
invited argument, both oral and written, from any counsel
interested i, them. This reargument was had, and the
court was fortunate in obtaining the assistance of very eminent and very able jurists. The importance of the proposition under discussion justified us in delaying a decision until
the present term, giving the judges the benefit of ample
time for its most mature examination.
With all the aid we have had from counsel, and with the
fullest comsideration we have been able to give the subject,
we are free to confess that its difficulties are many and embarrassini, and in the results we are about to announce we
have not been able to arrive at entire harmony of opinion.
The questions propounded by the court for discussion by
counsel were these:
1. Does the second section of the act of February 5th,
1867, repeal all or any part of the twenty-fifth section of the
act of 1789, commonily called the Judiciary Act?
2. Is it the true intent and meaning of the act of 1867,
above referred to, that when this court has jurisdiction of a
case, by reason of any of the questions therein mentioned,
it shall proceed to decide all the questions presented by the
record which are necessary to a final judgment or decree?
3. If this question be answered affirmatively, does the
Constitution of the United States authorize Congress to confer such a jurisdiction on this court?
1. The act of 1867 has no repealing clause nor any express
words of repeal. If there is any repeal, therefbre, it is one
of implication. The differences between the two sections
are of two classes, namely, the change or substitution of a
few words or phiases in the latter for those used in the former, with very slight, if any, change of meaning, and the
omission in the latter of two important provisions found in
the former. It will be perceived by this statement that
there is no repeal by positive new enactments inconsistent

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCR V. CITY OF MSEMPHIS.

617,

Opinion of the court.-First question: The 25th section is repealed.

-

ini term with the old law.' It is the words that are '.-hbly
omitted in the new statute .which 'constitute the. important
feature in the questions thus propounded for discussion.
A careful comparison of these two sections (set forth ia
parallel columns, supra, pp. 592,.59.-Rup.) ban leave no
doubt that it was the intention of Congress, by the latter stat,
ute, to revise the entire matter to which they both bad refer
ence, to make such changes -in, the law as it stood as they
thought best, and 'to substitute their will in that• regard entirely for the'.old law upon -the subject. We are of opinion
that it was their intention. to make'a new law so fat as the
present'law differed from the'former, a;nd that tl~e new -L4
embracing all that was intended to be.preserved of the old,
omitting what was not so intended, became complete ifl
itself and repealed all other law on the subject embraced
within it. The auqthorities on this subject are clear and uniform.*
The result of this reasoning is that the twenty-fifth section
of the act of 1789 is technically, repealed, and that the second
section of the act of 1867 has taken its place. What of the
statute of 1789 is embi'aced in that of 1867 is of course the
law now and has been ever, since it was first made so., What
is changed or modified is the law as thus changed- or modifled. That,which is omitted ceas6d to have any effect from
the day that the substituted statute was approved.
This view is strongly supportedby the consideration that
the revision of the laws of Congress passed at the last session, based upon the, idea that no cliange in the existing
law should be made,'has incorporated 'withthe Revised Statuies nothing but the second section of the act of 1867.
Whatever might have been our abstract views of the effect
of the act of 1867, we are, as to all the future cases, bound
by the law as found in the.Revised Statutes by the express
language of Oongress on that subject; and it would be labor
lost to consider any other vibw of the question.
United States v. Tynen, 11 Wallace, 88; 'Henderson Tobacco, Ib. 652;
Bartlet v. King, 12 Massachusetts, 537; Cincinnati v. Cody, 10 Pickering,
86; Sedgwick on Statutes, 126.

MURDOCK V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Second question: The extent of jurisdiction.

2. The affirmative of the second question propounded
above is founded upon the effect of the omission or repeal
of the last sentence of the twenty-fifth section of the act of
1789. That clause in express terms limited the power of
the Supreme Court in reversing' the judgment of a- State
cou$'t, to errors apparent on the face of the record and which
respected qulestions, that for the sake of brevity, though not
with' strict verbal accuracy, we shall call Fede'ral questions,
namely, those in regard to the validity or construction of the
Constitution, treaties, statutes, commissions, or authority of
the Feder.4 govern~ment.
The argtoment may be thus stated: 1. That the Constitution declares that the judicial power of the United States
shall exten4i to cases of a character .which includes the questions described in the section, and that by thie word case, is
'to be understood all of the case in which such a question
arises; 2. 'That by thefair coistruction of the act of 1789
in regard to removing those cases to this court, the power
and the duty of re-examining tle whole case would have
been devolved o.n the court, but for the restriction of the
clause omitted in the act of 1867; and that the same lan'guage is .used in tl~e latter act regulating' the removal, but
omitting the restrictive clause. And, 3. That by re-enacting
the statute in the same terms'as to the removal of cases from
,the State courts, without the restrictive clause, Congress is
to be understood as conferring the power which that clause
prohibited.
We will consider the last proposition'first.
What were the'precise motives which induced the ornission of -this. clause it is impossible to ascertain with arny de' grear of satisfaction. In a legislative body like Congress, it
is reasonable to sfippose that among those who -considered
this matter at all,, there were varying reasons for consenting
to the change. No doubt there were those who, believing
that the Constitution gave no right to the Federal judiciary
to go beyond the line marked by the omitted clause, thought
its presence or absence immaterial; and in a revision of the
statute it was wise to leave it out, because its presence im-

Oct. 1874.

'MURDOCK

V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

619

Opinion of the court.-Second question: The extent of jurisdiction.

plied that such a power was within the competency of Congress to bestow.- There were also, io doubt, those who believed that the section standing without that clause did not
confer the power which it prohibited, and that it was, therefore, better omitted. It may also have been within the
thought of a few that all that is now claimed would follow
the repeal of the clause. But if Congress, or the fram~rs
of the bill, had a clear purpose to enact. affirmatively that
the court should consider the c]ass of errors which that. clause forbid, nothing hindered that they shiuuld say so in positive
terms ; and in reversing the policy of the government from,
its foundation in one of the most important subjects on
which that body could act, it -is reasonably to be expected
that Congi-ess would use plain, unmistakable language in
giving expression to 'uch intention.
There is, therefore, no sufficient reason for holding, that
Congress, by repealing or omitting this restrictive clause,
intended to enact affirmatively the thing which that clause
had prohibited.
We are thus brought to the examination of the section as
it was passed by the Congress of 1867, and as it now stands,
as part of the revised statutes of the United-States.
Before we proceed to any criticism of the languageof the
section, it may be as well to rev.ert for a moment to the constitutional provisions which are supposed to, and which do,
bear upon the subject. The second section of the third article, already Adverted-to, declares that. "the judicial power
shall extend to all. cases inlaw and equity arising under this
Constitution, the laws of the United States, and. treaties
made or which 9hall be fhade, under their authority."
Waiving for the present the question whether the power
thus conferred extends to al[ questions, in.all cases, where
only one of" the questions involved arises under the Constitutiqn or laws of the United States, we find that this judicial
power is by the'Constitution vested in one Supreme Court
and in such inferior courts as Gongress may establish. Of
these courts the Constitution defines th6 jurisdiction of none.
but the Supreme Court. " Of that court it is said, after giving

620'

MURDOCK -V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

,Opinion of the court.-Second question: The extent of jurisdiction.

it a very limited original jurisdiction, that "in all other cases
before mentioned, the Supreme Court shall, have appellate
jurisdiction both as to law and fact, with such exceptions
and under such regulations as the Congress may prescribe'."
This latter clause has been the subject of construction in
this court many times, and the uniform and established doctrine is, that Congress having by 'the act of 1789 defined
an regulated this jurisdirion in certain classes of cases, this
affirnative expression of the will of that body is to be taken
as excepting all other cases to which the judicial power of
the United States extends, thhn those enumerated.* it is alsb to' be remembered thatthe exercise of judicial
power over cases arising under*the Constitution, law , and

treaties of the United States, may be original'as well as ap.
-,pellate, and may be conferred by Congress on other courts
than the Supflme Court, as it has done in several classes of
cases which will be hereafter referred to. We are under no
necessity, then, of supposin'g that Congress, in the section
'we are considering, intended to confer on the Supreme Court
the whole power which, by the Copstitution, it was competent for Congress to confer in the class of cases embraced in
that section.'
Omitting for the moment thtpart of the section which
characterizes the questions necessary to the jurisdiction conferred, the enactment is, that a final judgment or decree in
any suit in the highest court of a State in which a decision
in the suit can be had (when one of these questions is decided), may be re-examined, and reversed or affirmed, in the
'Supreme Court of the United States, upon a'writ of error...
in,the same manner, and under the same regulations, and
the ivit shall have the same effect a's if the judgment or decree complained of had been passed or rendered in a court
of the United States.
- It is strenuously maintained that as the office of a writ of
ei'ror at the gommon law, and as it is used in relation -to the
*Wiscartv. Dauchy, 3 Dallas,. 321; Durousseau v. United States, 6 Cranch,
807; The Lucy, 8 Wallace, 307; Ex parte McOardle, 6 Id. 3&8; S. C. 7 Id.
,506.

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK V. 'OITY OF MEMPHIS.

1621

Opinion of the court.-Second question: The extent of jurisdiction.

inferior courts of the United States when issued from this
court, is to remove the Whole case to this court for revision
upon its merits, or at least'upon all the errors found in the
record of the base so removed, and as this statute enacts that
these cases shall- be re-examined in the same manner, and
under the same regulations, and the writ shall haveltie same
effect as in th6se cases, therefire-all the errors found. in a
record so removed from a Slate court -rhust be reviewed so
far as they are essential to a correct final judgment on the
whole case.
The proposition as thus statedhas great force, and is eiititled to our most careful consideration. If the invariable
effect of a writ of errdr to a. Circuit Court of, the United
States is to require-of this court to examine and pass upon
all the errors of.the inferior. court, and if re-examinati6n of
the judgment of the court in the same manner and under
the same regulations, means that in the "re-examination
everything is-to be considered which could be considered in
ence to the Cif-cuit Court, and nbthing else, then the infera writ which is drawn from.these premises would seem'to be

correct.
But let us consider.this.

There are two principaf methods known to English juisprudeiice, and to the jurisprudence of theFederal courts, by
which cases may be removed from an inferior to an,appellate
court for 'eview. These are the writ of error and the appeal.
There may be, and- there are, other exceptional modes, such
as the writ of certiorariat common law, and,a certificate of
division of opinion under the acts of Congress' ;The appeal,
which is the only mode by whih a decree in ch'icery or in
admiralty can be b'ought from an inferior Fed A l court to
this court, does bring up the'whole case for re-ex~mination
on all-tbe merits, whether of 1aw 'or fact, andfor consideration on these, as though no decree had ever be.n 7rendered.
The wit of error is used to bi'ing. up for review all other.
cases-, and when thus brought here th6'cas es are nbtCpen br
re-examination on their wh'ole merits, but every cQntroverted
question of fa.et is excluded from consideration, and only

MURDOCK V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

PSup, Ct.

Opinion of the court.-S.econd question: The extent of jurisdiction.

such errors as this court can see that the inferibr court committed, and not all of these, can be the subject of this court's
corrective power.
Now,jone of the first things apparent on the face of thi§statute is that decrees in chancery, and iii admiralty also, if
A State court shall entertain jurisdiction of a case essentially
of admiralty cognizance, are to be removed into this court
from the State courts by this writ of error as'well as judgments, at law. And such has been the unquestioned practice
under the act of '1789 from its passage until'now. But this
writ cannot bring a decree in chancery or admiralty friom the
Circuit C~urt to this court for review. It has no such effect,
and we dismiss every day cases .brought here by writ of error
to a Circuit Court,-because they can only be brought here by
appeal, and the writ of error does not extend tb them.*
Unless, therefore, we have been wholly wrong for eighty
years, under the act of 1789, and unless -we are prepared to
exclude chancery cases decideo in the State coufts from he
effect of this writ, it cannot, literally,'have the same effect
as ih cases from a court of the United: States; and if we
could hold that the writ would have the same effect in removing the case, which is probably all that is meant, still
the case when removed cannot literally be examined in the
same manner, if by manner is ,neant the principle on which
the judgment of the court must rest. For chancery cases,
when brought hete from the Circuit Courts, are brought for
a trial de novo on ll the evidence and pleadings in the case.
It is, therefore, too obvious to need comment, that this
statute was designed to bring equity suits to this court from
the State courts by writ of error, as well as law cases, and
that it was not intended that they, should be re-examined in
the sarhe manner as if brought here from a court of the
United States, in the sense of the propogiti61i we are considering.
Butpassing from this consigeratioif,-what has been the
this court re.examienes.the judgments of
.manner-iniich
The San *Pedro, 2 Wheaton, 132; McCollum v. Eager, 2 Howard, 61;
Minor v. Till6dn, 1b. 892; Benton v. Lapier, 22 Id. 118:

Oct., 1874.]

MURDOCK

V. CITY

Or MEMPHIS.

623

Opinion of the court.-Secona questipn: The extent of jurisdiction.

the Circuit Courts on writs of error, as touching the errors
into which i' will lbok for reversal? For it is this mhanner
which is supposed to require an examination of allerrors,
whether of'Federal law or otherwise under this statute. It
requires but slight examinatiodtof the reports of thedecisions
or familiarity with the practice of this court,, to know that it
does not .examine -into or decide all the errors, or matter
assigned for error, of the most of the cases before them.
Many-of these are fbnd to be immateiial, the case being
reversed or affirmed on some important point wh.ich requires
of itself a judgment without regard to other matteils. There
are errors also which may be sufficientry manifest of ,which
the.appellate court lhas no jurisdiction, as'in regard to a motion for a new trial, or to quash an indictment, or.for a continuance, or amendment of pleadings, or some other matter
which, however important to the merits of the case, is within.
the exclusive discretion of the inferior court.
Nor does it seem to us that the phrase "inthe same man-'
ner and under the same regulations, and the writ shall have
-the same effect" is intended to furnish the rule by which
the c6urt shall' be guid9d in the considerations which should
enter into the judgment that it shaft render. That the writ
of error shall have the same effect as if directed to a Circuit
Court can m6au no more than that it shall transfer'-the case
to'.the Supreme Court, and with it. the record of the proceedin gs in the court below. This is the efiect of the writ and
its ftunction and purpose. When the court comes to con-'
sider the case it /may be limited by the nature of the writ,
but what it shall :review, and what it shall not, must dbpend
upon the jurisdiction of the court in that class of cases as
fixed by the law governing-that jurisdidtion.
So the regulatibns here spoken of are. manifestly the rules
under which the writ is issued, served, and returned; the
notice to be given to the adverse party,, and time fixed for
appearance, at'gument, &c,..Another important effect of the
writ aftd of the regulatio.is governing.it is that'when accompanied by'a proper. bond, given and approved within the
prescribed time~it operateqsas-a-supersedeas to further pro-

'624 '

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Second question: The extent of jurisdiction.

ceedings in the inferior court. The word manner also much
more appropriately expresses the general mode of proceeding with the -case, after the writ has been allowed, the means
by which the exigency of the writ is enforced, as by rule on
the clerk, or mandamus to the court, and the progress of
the case in the appellate court; as filing the record, docketing the case, time of hearing, order of the argument, and
such other matters as are merely incident to final decision
by the court. In short, the whole phrase is one eminerftly
appropriate to the expression of the idea that these cases,
though coming from State instead of Federal tribunals; shall
be condudted in their progress through the court, intho
matter of the general course of procedure, by the same rules
of practice that prevail in cases brought under writs of error
to the courts of the United States.
This is a diferent thing, however, from laying down rules
of decision, or enacting the fundamental princiiiles on which
the court must decide this 'class of cases. It differs widely
from an attempt to say that the court in coming to a judgment must consider this matter and disregard that. It is
by no means the language in which a legislative body would
undertake to establish the principles on which a court of last
resort must form its judgment. '
There is an instance of the use of very similar language
,by Congress in reference to the removal of causes into this
court for review which has unitbrmly received the construction which we now place upon this;
By t6b Judiciary Act of 1789, there was no appeal, in the
judicial sense of that word, to this court ini any case. Decrees in suits in equity and admiralty were brought up by
writ of error only, until the act of 1803; and as this writ
could not bring up a case to-be tried on its controverted
questions of .fact, the nineteenth section of the act of 1789
required the'inferior courts to make a finding of facts which
should be accepted as true by the appellate court. But by
the act of March 3d, 1803,* these cases were to be brought

-

* 2 Stat. at Large, 244.

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

625

Opinion of the court.-Second question: The extent of jurisdiction.

to this court by appeal, and to give this appeal full effect the
nineteenth section of the act of 1789 was repealed, and upoh
such appeal the court below was directed to send to this
court all the pleadings, depositions, testimony, and proceedings. In this manner the court obtained that full possession
and control of the case which the nature of an appeal implies.
And it is worthy of observation that Congress -did not rely
upon the mere legal operation of*the word appeal.to effect
this, but provided in express terns-the means necessary to
insure this object.
Butto avoid the necessity of many words as to the mode
in which the case should be brought to this court and conducted when here, it was enacted "that such appeals. shall
be subject to the same rules, regulations, and restrictions as
are prescribed in law in case of writs of error.". Here is
language quite as strong as that we have had under consideration, and strikingly similar both in its purport and in the
purpose to be served by it. Yet no one ever supposed that
when the court came to consider 'the judgment which it
should render on such an appeal it was to be governed by
the principles applicable to writs of error at common law.
It was never thought for a moment, notwithstanding the
use of the word.' 6'restrictions," that the. court was limited
to questions of law apparent on the record; but the uniform
course has been to consider it as a case to be tried de novo
on all the considerations of law and of fact applicable to it.
There are-many decisions of this court showing that these
words have been held to apply alone to the course of procedure, to matters of mere practice, and not at all affording a
rule for decision of the case on its merits in' the conferenceroom.*
There is, therefore, nothing in the language of the act, as
far as we have criticized it, which in express terms defines
the extent of thu re-examination which this court shall give
to such cases.
But we have not yet considered the most important part
Villabolos v. United States, 6 Howard, 81; Castro v.United States, 8
Wallace, 46; Mussina v. Cavazos, 6 Id. 855.
VOL.

XX.

40

MURDOCK V. "CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Second question : The extent of jurisdiction.

of the statute, namely, that which declares that it is only
upon the existence'of certain questions in the case that this
conrt can entertain jurisdiction at all. Nor is the mere existeuce of such a question in the case sufficient to give jurisdiction-the question must have been decided in the State
qpurt. Nor is it sufficient that-such a question was raised
and was decided. It must have been decided in a certain
way, that is, against the right set up under the Constitution,
laws, treaties, or authority of the United States. The Federal question may have been erroneously decided. It may
be quite apparent to this court that a wrong construction
has been given to the Federal law, but if the right claimed
under it by plaintiff in error has been conceded to him, this
court cannot entertain jurisdiction of the -ease, so very careful is the statute, both of 1789 and of 1867, to narrow, to
limit, and define the jurisdiction which this court exercises
over the judgments of the State courts. Is it e6usistent
with this extreme caution to suppose that Congress intended,
when those cases came here, that this court sh6uld not only
examine those questions, but all others found in the record?
-questions of common law, of State statutes, of controverted facts, and conflicting evidence. Or is it the more
reasonable inference that Congress intended that tbe case
should be brought here that those questions might be decided
andfinally decided by the court established by the Constitution of the Union, and the court which has always been
-supposed to be not only the most appropriate but the only
proper tribunal for their final decision ? No such reason
nor any necessity exists for the decision by this court of
other questions in those cases. The jurisdiction has been
exercised for nearly a century without serious inconvenience
to the due administration of justice. The State courts are
the appropriate tribunals, as this court has repeatedly held,
for the decision of questions arising under their local law,
whether statutory or otherwise. And it is not lightly to be
presumed that Congress acted upon a principle which implies a distrust of their integrity or of their ability to construe those laws correctly.

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK

V. CITY

OF MEMPHIS.

627

Opinion of the court.-Second question: The extent of jurisdiction.

Let us look for a moment into the effect of the pi'oposition
contended for upon the cases as they come up for consideration in the conference-room. If it is found that no such
questiqn is raised or decided in the court below, thent all will
concede that it must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
But if it is found that the Federal question was raised ana
was decided against the plaintiff in error, then the first duty
of the court obviously is to determine whether it was correctly decided by the State court. Let us suppose that we
find that the court below was right in its decision on that

question. What, then, are we to do ? Was it the intention
of Congress to say that while you can only bring the dase
here on account of this question, yet when it is here; though
it may turn out that the plaintiff in error was wrong on that
question, and the judgment of the court below was right,
though he has wrongfully dragged the defendant into this
court by the allegation of an error which did not exist, and
withou't which the case could not rightfully be here, lie can
still insist on an inquiry into all the other matters which
were litigated in the case? This is neither reasonable nor
just.
In such case both the nature of the jurisdiction conferred
and the nature and fitness of -things demand that, no error
being found in the matter which authorized the re-examination, the judgment of the State court should be affirmed,
and the case remitted to that court foi' its further enforcement.
The whole argument we are combating, however, goes
upon the assumption that when it is found that the record
shows that one of the questions mentioned has been decided
against the claim of the plaintiff in error, this court has jurisdiction, and that jurisdiction extends to the whole case.
If it extends to the whole case then the court must reexamine the whole case, and if it re-examines it must decide
the whole case. It is difficult to escape the logic of the arguraent if the first premise be conceded. But it is here the
error lies. We are of opinion that upon a fair construction
of the whole language of the section the jurisdiction con-

MURDOCK v.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Second question: The extent of jurisdiction.

ferred is limited to the decision of the questions mentioned
in the statute, and, ,as a necessary consequence of this, to the
exercise of such powers as may be necessary to cause the
judgment in that decision to be respected.
We will now advert to one or two considerations apart
from the mere language of the statute, which seem to us to
give additional force to this conclusion.
It has been many times decided by this court, on motions
to dismiss this class of cases for want of jurisdiction, that if
it appears from the record that the plaintiff in error raised
and presented to the court by pleadings,'prayer for instruction, or other appropriate method, one of the questions specified in the statute, and'the court ruled against him, the
jurisdiction of this court attached, and we must hear the
case on its merits.* Heretofore these merits have been held
to be to determine whether the propositions of law involved
in the specific Federal question were rightly decided, and
if not, did the case of plaintiff in error, on the pleadings
and evidence, come within the principle ruled by this court.
This has always been held to be the exercise of the jurisdiction and re-examination of the case provided by the statute.
But if when we once get jurisdiction, everything in the case
is open to re-examination, it follows that every case tried in
any'State court, from that of a justice of the, peace to the
highest court of the State, may be brought to this court for
final decision on all the points involveil in it.
That this is no exaggeration let us look a moment.
-Suppose a party is sued before a justice of the peace for
assault and battery. He pleads that he was a deputy marshal of the United States, and in serving a warrant of arrest
on plaintiff he gently laid his hands on hinl and used no
more force than was necessary. He also pleads the'general
issue. We will suppose that to the special plea some response is made.which finally leads to a decision Against the
defendant on that -plea. And judgment is rendered against
Rector v.Asbley, 6 Wallace, 142; Bridge Proprietors v. Hoboken Co.,
1 Id. 116; Furman v.Nichtol, 8 Id. 44; Armstrong v. Treasurer, 16 Peters,
281; Crowell v. Randell, 10 Id. 868.

Oct.

1874.]

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHI.

629

Opinion of the court.-Second questi6n: The extent of jurisdiction.

him on the general issue also. He never was a deputy marshal. He never had a writ from a United States court; but
he insists on that plea through all the courts up to this, and
when he gets here the record shows a Federal question decided against him, and this court must re-examine the whole
case, though there was not a particle of truth in his plea,and it was a mere device' to get the' case into this court.

Very many cases are brought here now of that character.
Also, cases where the moment theFederal question is stated
by counsel we all know that there is nothing in it. This
has become such a burden and abuse that we eithei refuse
to hear, or hear only one side of many. such, and stop the
argument, and have been compelled to adopt a rule that
when a motion is made to dismiss it shall only be heard on
printed argument. If the temptation to dd this is so.stlong,
under the rule of this court for over eighty years to hear
only the Federal question, what are we to expect when, by
merely raising one of those questions in any case, the party
who does it can .bring it here for decision on all the matters
of law and fact involved in it. It is to be re'membered thdt
there is not even a limitation as to the value in controversy
in writs to the State courts as there is to the Circuit Courts;.
and i follows that there is no conceivablfa- case so insiguificant in ainount or unimportant in principle that a perverse
and obstinate man may not bring it to this couit by the aid

of a sagacious lawyer raising a Federal question in the
record-a poinf which he may be wholly unable to .support
by the facts, or wfuAch he may well' kn(,w will be d~cided
agaiist him the moment it is stated.. But he obtains his
object, if this court, when the case is once open to re-examination on account of that question, must decide all the others
that are to be found in the record.
It is impossible to believe that Congress intended this i'*sult, and equally impossible that they did not see that it
would follow if they intended to open the cases. that are
'brought here under this section to re-examination bn all the
points involved' in them and necessary to a final judgmeit
on the merits.

630

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup.,

at.

Opinion of the court.-Second question : The extent of jurisdiction.

The twenty-fifth section of the act of 1789 has been the
subject of innumerable decisions, some of which are to be
found in almost every volume of the reports from that year
down to the present. These form a system of appellate jurisprudence relating to the exercise of the appellate power of
this court over the courts of the States. That system has
been based upon the fundamental principle that this jurisdiction was linited to the correction of errors relating solely
to Federal law. And though it may be argued with some
plausibility that the reason of this is to be found in the restrictive clause of the act of 1789, which is omitted in the
act of 1867, yet an examination of the cases will show that
it rested quite as much'on the conviction of this court that
without that -clause and on general principles the jurisdiction extended no further. It requires a very bold reach of
thouglht,.and a readiness to impute to Congress a radical
and hazardous change of a policy vital in its essential nature
to the independence of the State courts, to believe that that
body contemplated, or intended, what is claimed, by the
mere omission of a clause in the substituted statute, which
may well be held to have been superfluous, or nearly so, in
the old one.
Another consideration, not without weight in seeking
after the intention of Congress, is found in the fact that
where that body has clearly shown an intention to bring the
whole of a case which arises tnder the constitutional provision as to its subject-matter under the jurisdiction of a
Federal court, it has conferred its cognizance on Federal
courts of original jurisdiction and not on the Supreme Court.
It is the same clause and the same language which declares
in the Constitution that the judicial power shall extend to
cases arising under the Constitution, laws, and treaties of
the United States and to cases of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction. In this same act of 1789 the jurisdiction in
admiralty and maritime cases is conferred on the District
Courts of t? United States, and is made* exclusive. Congress has in like manner conferred upon the same court exclusive original juxisdiction in all cases of bankruptcy."

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

631

Opinion of the court.-Second question: The extent of jurisdiction.

Upon the Circuit Court it has conferred jurisdiction with
exclusive reference to matters of Federal law, without regar(l to citizenship, either originally or by removal from the
State courts in cases of conilicting titles to land under grants
from different States.* In citses arising under the patent
laws.t In suits ag-ainst baiking associations organized under the laws of the United States.1 Iilsuits against individuals on account of acts done under the revenue laws of
the United States.§ In suits for damages for depriving, under color of State laws, any person of rights, privileges, or
immunities secured to him by the Constitution or laws of
the United States.Ij
The acts referred to, and perhaps others not enumeyated,
show very clearly that when Congress desired a case to be
tried on all the issues involved in it because one of those
issues was to be controlled" by the Constitution, laws, or
treaties of the United States, it was their policy to vest its
cognizance in a court of original jurisdiction, and not in an
appellate tribunal.
A d we think it equally clear that it has been the counterpart of the same policy to vest in the Supreme Court, as a
court of appeal from the State courts, a jurisdiction limited
to the questions of a Federal character which might be involved in such cases.
It is not difficult to discover -'.hat the purpose of Congress
in the passage of this law was. In a vast number of cases
the rights of the people of the Union, as they are administered in the courts of the States, must depend upon the construction which those courts gave to the Constitution, treaties, and laws of the United States. The highest courts of
the States were sufficiently numerous, even in 1789, to cause
it to be feared that, with the purest motives, this construct 16 Id. 206, 215.
1 13 Id. 116.
Act of March 2d, 1833, 4 Id 632, and act of July 13th, 1866, 14 Id. 17.6.
U Act of Iday 31st, 1870, 16 Id. 114; and act of April 20th, 1871, 17 Id.
18. See also for removal of cases of similar character from State courts, act
of March 3d, 1863, 12 Id. 756; act of April 9th, 1866, 14 Id. 46; and act of
May 31st, 1870, 16 Id. 144.
* 1 Stat. at Large, 89.

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Second question: The extent of jurisdiction.

tion given in different courts would be various and conflicting. It was desirable, however, that whatever conflict of
opinion might e"ist in those courts on other subjects, the
rights Which depended on the Federal laws should be the
same everywhere, and that their'cbnstruction should be uni'form. This could only be done by conferring upon the Supreme Court of the United States-the appellate tribunal
established by the Constitution-the right to decide these
questions finally and in a manner which Wonld be conclusive
on all other courts, State or National. This was the first
purpose of the statute, and it does not require that, in a case
involving a variety of questions, any other should be decided
than those described in the act.
Secondly.. It was no doubt the purpose of Congress to
secure to every litigant whose rights depended on any ques-,
tion of Federal law that that question should be decided for
him by the highest Federal tribunal if he desired it, when
the decisions of the State courts were against him on that
question. That rights of this character, guarante6d to, him
by the Constitution and lavs of the -Union, should not be
left to the exclusive and final control of the State courts.
There may be some plausibility in the argument that these
rights canot be protected in all -cases unless the'Supreme
Court has final control of the whole case. But the experience of eighty-five years of the -administration of the law
under the opposite theory would seem to be a satisfactory
answer to the argument. It is not to be presumed that the
State courts, where the rule is clearly laid down to them on
the Federal question, and its influence on the case fully seen,
will disregard. or overlook it, and this is all that the rights
of the party claiming under it require. Besides, by the very
terms of this statute, when the Supreme Court is of opinion
that the question of Federal law is of such relative importance to the whole case that it.should control the final judgment, that court is authorized to render such judgment and
enforce it by its own process. It cannot, therefore, be maintained that it is-in any case necessary for the security of the
rights claimed under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of

.Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK

V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

'633

Opinion of the court.-Second question: Jurisdiction limited.

the United States that thdSupreme Oeurt should examine
and decide other questions not of a Federal character.
And We are of opinion that the act of 1867-does not confer
such a jurisdiction.
.This renders unnecessary a 'decision of the question
vhether, if Congress had conferred such authority, the act
would have been constitutional. It will be time enough for
this court to inquire.into the existence of suQh a.power when
that body has attempted to exercise it in language which
makes such an intention so clear as to require it.
The omitted clause of the act of 1789 declared that no
other'error should be regarded as a ground of reversal than
such~as" appears on the face of the record and immediately
respects the beforementioned questions.
It is probable'that in determining whether one of those
questions was actually raised and decided in the State court,
this court has been inclined to restrict its inquiries too much
by this expres- limitation of the inquiry "to the face of the
record."* What was the record of a case was pretty well
understood as a common-law phrase at the time that statute
was enacted. But the statutes of the States and new modes
of proceedin'gs in those courts have changed and confused
the matter very much since that time.
It is in reference to one of 'the necessities thus brought
about that this court long since determined to-consider as
part of the record the opinions delivered in such cases .by
the Supreme Court of Louisiana.t And though we have
'repeatedly decided that the opinions of other State' courts
cannot be looked into to ascertain what was decided, we see
no reason why, since this restriction is removed, we should
not so far' examine those.opinions, when properly authenticated, as may be useful in determining that qfiestion. We
have beefi in the habit of receiving- the certificate of the
court signed by its chief justice or presiding officer on that
point, though not as conclusive, and these opinions are quite
* Williams v. Norris, 12 WheatGu, 117; Rector v. Ashley, 6 Wallace, 142

- Grand Gulf Railroad Co. v. Marshall, 12 Howard, 165; Consin v. Blanc's
Executor, 19 Id. 202.

634

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Its action under the act of 1867.

as sitisfictory and may more properly be treated.as part of
the record than such certificates.
But after all, the record of the case, its pleadings, bills of
exceptions, judgment, evidence, in short, its record, whether
it be a case in law or equity, must be the chief foundation
of the inquiry; and while we are not prepared to fix any
absolute limit to the sources of the inquiry under the new
act, we feel quite sure it was not intended to open the scope
of it to any loose range of investigation.
It is proper, in this first attempt to construe this important statute as amended, to say a few words on another
point. What shall be done by this court when the question
has been found to exist in the record, and to have been decided against the plaintiff in error, and righfully decided,
we have already seen, and it presents no difficulties.
But when it appears that the Federal question was decided
erroneously against the plaintiff in error, we must then reverse the case undoubtedly, if there are no other issues decided in it than that. It often has occurred, however, and
will occur again, that there are other points in the case than
those of Federal cognizance, on which the judgment of the
court below may stand; those points being of themselves
sufficient to control the case.
Or it may be, that there are other issues in the case, but
they are not of such controlling influence on the whole case
that they are alone sufficient to support the judgment.
It may also be found that notwithstanding there are many
other questions in the record of the case, the issue raised
by the Federal question is such that its decision must dispose of the whole case.
In the two latter instances there can be no doubt that the
judgment of the State court must be reversed, and under
the new-act this court can either render the final judgment
or decree here, or remand the case to the State court for
that purpose.
But in the other cases supposed, why should a judgment
be reversed for an error in deciding the Federal question, if
the same judgment must be rendered on the other points

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOOK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

Opinion of the court.-Propositions generally established.

in the case? And why should this court reverse a judgment which is right on the whole record presented to us;
.or where the same judgment will be rendered by the court
below, after they have corrected the error in the Federal
question ?
We hnve already laid down the rule that we are not authorized to examine-these other questions for the purpose
of deciding whether the State court ruled correctly oil them
or not. We are of opinion that on these subjects not embraced in the class of questions stated in tile statute, we
must receive the decision of the State courts as conclusive.
But when we find that the State court has decided the
Federal question erroneously, then to prevent a useless and
profitless reversal, which can do the plaintiff in error no
good, and can only embarrass and delay the defendant, we
must so far look into the remainder of the record as to see
whether the decision of the Federal question alone is sufficient to dispose of the case, or to require its reversal; or on
the other hand, whether. there exist other matters in the
record actually decided by the State court which are sufficient to maintain the judgment of that coart,Inotwithstanding the error in deciding the Federal question. In the latter
case the court would not be justified in reversing the judgment of the State court.
But this examination into the points in the record other
than the Federal question is not for the purpose of determining whether they were correctly or erroneously decided,
but to ascertain if any such have been decided, and their
sufficiency to maintain the final judgment, as decided by
the State court.
Beyond this we are not at liberty to go, and we can only
go this far to prevent the injustice of reversing a judgment
which must in the end be reaffirmed, even in this court, if
brought here again from the State court after it has corrected its error in the matter of Federal law.
Finally, we hold the following propositions on this subject as flowing from the statute as it now stands:
1. That it is essential to the j urisdicfion of this court over

MURDOCK V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Short statement of the immediate case.

the judgment of a State court, that it shall appear that one
of the questions mentioned in the act must have been raised,
and presented to the State court.
2. That it must have been decided by the State court, or
that its decision was necessary to the judgment or decree,
rendered in the case.
8. That the. decision must have been against the right
claimed or asserted by plaintiff in error under the Constitution; treaties, laws, or authority of the United States.
4. These things appearing, this court has jurisdiction and
must examine the judgment so far as to enable it to decide
whether this claim of right was correctly adjudicated by the
State court.
5. If it finds that it was rightly decided, the judgment
must be affirmed.
6. If it was erroneously decided against plaintiff in error,
then this court must further inquire, whether there is any
other matter or issue adjudged by the State court, which is
sufficiently broad to maintain the judgment of that court,
notwithstanding the error in deciding the issue raised by
the Federal question. If this is found to be the case, the
judgment must be affirmed without inquiring into the soundness of the decision on such other matter or issue.
7. Biut if it be found that the issue raised by the question
of Federal law is of such controlling character that its correct decision is necessary to any final judgment in the case,
or that there has been no decision by the State court of any
other matter or issue which is sufficient to maintain the
judgment of that eourt without regard to the Federal question, then this court will reverse the judgment of the State
court, and will either render such judgment here as the
State court should have rendered, br remand the case to
that court, as the circumstances of the case may require:
Applying the principles here laid down to the case now
before the court, we are of opinion that this court has jurisdiction, and that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Tennessee must be affirmed.
The suit was a bill in chancery brought by Murdock and

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOOK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

687

Opinion of the court.-The immediate case disposed of.

others against the city of Memphis to have. a decree establishing their right in certain real estate near that city. The
United States having determined.to build i navy yard at
Memphis, about theyear 1844, or previous thereto, the city
ofMemphis, on the 14th day of September of that Year,
conveyed to the United States the land in controversy by an
ordinary deed of general warranty, expressing on its face
the consideration of $'20,000 paid, and designatit)g no purpose for which the land was conveyed. After retaining possession of the land for about ten years without building a
navy yard, the United States ibandoned that purpose, and
by an act approved August 5th, 1854, ceded the Vroperty to
the city of Memphis by its corporate fiame for the use and
benefit of said city.
The plaintiffs in error, by their bill, allege that the title
was originally conveyed to the city of Memphis, in trust,
for certain purposes, including that of having a navy yard
built on it by the United States; that when the title rbverted
to the city by reason of the abandonment of the place as a
navy yard by the United States, und the act of Congress
aforesaid, the city received the title in trust for the original
grantors, wh6 are the plaiititis, or who are represented by
plaintiffs. A demurrer to the bill was filed. ,Also an answe'r
denying the trust. and pleading the statute of limitations.
On the hearing the bill was dismissed, and this decree was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. The complainiants, in their bill, and throughout the case, insisted that the
effect of the act 6f 1854 was to vest the title in the mayor or
aldermen of the -city in trust for them.
It may be very true that it is not easy to see anything in
the deed by which the United States received the title from
the city, or the act by which they ceded it back, which raises
such a trust, but the complainants claimed a right under
this act of the United States, which was decided against
them by the Supreme Court of Tennessee, and this claim
gives:jurisdiction of that question to this court.
But we need not consume many word& to prove that
neither by the deed of the city to-the United States, which

MURDOCK V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of Clifford and Swayne, JJ., dissenting, on the second question.

is an ordinary deed of bargain and sale for a valuable consideration, nor from anything found in the act of 1854,* is
there any such trust to be inferred. The act, so far fiom
recogaizi,,g or implying any such trust, cedes the property
to the mayor and aldermen for the use of the city. We are,
therefore, of opinion that this, the only Federal question in
the case, was rightly decided by the Supreme Court of Telnessee.
But conceding this to be true, the plaintiffs in error have
argue(] that tie court having jurisdiction of the case must
now examine it upon all the questions which affect its merits;
and they insist that the conveyance by which the city of
Memphis i'eceived the title previous to the deed fiom the
city to the government, and the circumstances attending
the making of the former deed are such, that when the title
reverted to the city, a trust was raised for the benefit of
plain tiff".
After what has been said in the previous part of this
opinion, we need discuss this matter no further. The claim
of right here set up is one to be determined by the general
principles of equity jurisprudence, and is unaffected by anytiing found in the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the
United States. Whether decided well or otherwise by the
State court, we have no authority to inquire. According
to the principles we have laid down as applicable to this
class of cases, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee must be
AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, with whom concurred Mr. Justice SWAYNE, dissenting:
I dissent from so much of the opinion of the court as denies the jurisdiction of this court to determine the whole
case, where it appears that the record presents a Federal
question and that the Federal question was erroneously decided to the prejudice of the plaintiff in error; as in that
10 Stat. at Large, 586.

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

639

Opinion of Bradley, J., dissenting.

state of the record it is, in my judgment, the duty of this
court, under the recent act of Congress, to decide the whple
merits of the controversy, and to affirm or reverse the judgment of the State court. Tested by the new law it would
seem that it must be so, as this court cannot in that state of
the record dismiss the writ of error, nor can the court reverse the judgment without deciding every question which
the'record presents.
Where the Federal question is rightly decided the judgment of the State- court may be affirmed, upon the ground
that the jurisdiction does not attach to the other questions
involved in the merits of the controversy; but where the
Federal question is erroneously decided the whole merits
must be decided by this court, else the new law, which it is
admitted repeals the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary
Act, is without meaning, operation, or effect, except to repeal the prior law.
Sufficient proof of the fact that the new law was not intended to'be without meaning and ffective operation: is
found in the fact that the provision In the old law which restricts the right of the plaintiff in error or appellant to assign
for error any matter except such as respects one of the Federal questions enumerated in the twenty-fifth section of the
Judiciary Act, is wholly omitted in the new law.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY, dissenting:
I feel obliged to dissent from the conclusion to which a
majority of the court has come on the public question in
this cause, but shall content myself with stating briefly the
grounds of that dissent, without entering into any prolonged
argument on the subject..
Meantime, however, it is pi'oper to say that I deejn it very
doubtful whether the court has any jurisdiction at all over
this particular case. The complainants claim the property
in question under the terms, and what they regard as the
true construction, of the trust-deed of July, 1844, whereby
the property was conveyed to the city of Memphis "for the
location of the naval depot;" and to Wheatley, trustee for

MURDOCK V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley, J., disisenting.

the grantors, "in case the same shall not be appropriated by
the United States for that purpose." This deed was acknowledged on the 19th of September, 1844, and (probably
at the same time) a deed dated 14th of September, 1844, was
executed by the city to the United States, conveying the land
in fee without any conditions or uses expressed. Operations
for erecting and establishing a navy yard on the premises
were commenced and were continued for several years, but
were finally abandoned, and ou the 5th of August, 1854,
Congress, by an act, ceded the property to the city of Memphis for the use and benefit of the city. The defendants, the
city of Memphis, claim both legal and beneficial title to the
property under this act of Congress, and the Supreme Court
of Tennessee sustained the claim-or, at least, did not sustain the adverse claim of the complainants. The claim of
the complainants was not based on this act of Congress, but
on the original deed of 1844, which limited the estate in the
lands to their trustee "in case the same shall not be appropriated by the United States for that purpose," i. e., the purpose of a navy yard.- They claim that by the true construetion of this clause a right to the land'accrued to them, as
*ell by an abandonment of the project of a navy yard as by
its never being adopted. The conduct of the government in
relation to the land, it is true, is claimed by them to be such
as calls into operative effect the clause of the deed on which
they rely. They construe that conduct as an abandonment
of the, enterprise. The act of cession by Congress to the city
of Memphis is only one fact in a long chain of circumstances
which they educe to show such abandonment.
It seems to me, therefore, that their claim is based entirely on the deed of 1844; and that the subsequent action
of the government, so far as it has any effect in the case, is
merely matter of evidence on the question of fact of abandonment; and that the failure of the government, from the
beginning, to take any steps for establishing a navy yard on
the land would have been no more a mere fact in pais to be
proved in order to support the claim of the complainants,
than were all the acts of the government which did, in fact,

Oct. 1874.]

MURDOCK V. CITY OF MEMPHIS.

641

Opinion of Bradley, J., dissenting.

take place. Proving that the government did not appropriate the land for a navy yard is a very different thing from
setting up a claim to the land under an act of Congress.
I think, therefore, that in this case there was no' title or
right claimed by the appellants under any statute of, or authority, exercised under, the United States; and consequently that there was no decision against any Euch title;
and, therefore, that this court has no jurisdiction.
But supposing, as the mnjority of the court holds, that it
has jurisdiction, I cannot concur in the conclusion that'we
can only decide the Federal question raised by the record.
If we have jurisdiction at all, in my judgment we have jurisdiction of the case, and not merely of a question in it. The
act of 1867, and the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act
both provide that a final judgment or decree in any suit in
the highest court of a State, where is drawn in question certain things relating to the Constitution or laws of the United
States, or to rights -or inimunities claimed under the United
States, and the decision is adverse to such Constitution,
laws, or rights, may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed
in the Supreme Court of the United States uponi a writ of
error. Had the original act stopped here there could have
been no difficulty. This act derives its authority and is intended to carry into effect, at least in part, that clause of the
Constitution which declares that the judicial power shall extend to all cases, in law and equity, arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties made
under their authority-not to all questions, but to all cases.
This word "cases," in the residue of the section, has fre-.
quently been held to mean suits, actions, embracing the
whole cases, not mere questions in them; and that is undoubtedly the true construction. The Constitution, 'therefore, Would have authorized a .revision by the judiciary of
the United States of all cases decided in State courts in
which questionsof United States law or Federal rights are
necessarily involved. Congress in carrying out that clause
could have so ordained. And the liw referred to, had it
VOL. xx.

41

MURDOCK V.

CITY OF MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opiniion of Bradley, J., dissenting.

stopped at the point to which I have quoted it above, would
clearly have been understood as so ordaining. But the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act went on to declare
that in such'cases no other error should be assigned or regarded as a ground of reversal than such as immediately
respected the question referred to as the ground of jurisdiction. It having been early decided that Congress had power
to regulalte the exercise of the appellate jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court, the court ha.s always considered itself bound
by this restriction, and as authorized to reverse judgments
of State courts only for errors in deciding the Federal questions involved therein.
Now, Congress, in the act of 1867, when revising the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act,, whilst following
tLe general frame and" modes of expression of that section,
omitted the clause above referred to, wlich restricted the
court to a consideration of the Federal questions. This
omission cannot be regarded as having no meaning. The
clause by its presence in the original act meant something,
and effected something. It had the effect of restricting the
consideration of the court to a certain class of questions as a
ground of reversal, which restriction would not have existed
without it. The omission of the clause, according to a wellsettled rule of construction, must necessarily have the effect
of removing the restriction which it effected in the old law.
In my judgment, therefore, if the court had jurisdiction
of the case, it was bound to consider not only the Federal
question raised by the record, but the whole case. As the
court, however, has decided otherwise, it is not proper that
I should express any opinion on the merits.
The case having been reargued, as well as argued originally, before the appointment of the CHIEF JUSTICE, be
took no part in the judginent.

