CHASE NAT. BANK v. UNITED STATES.
322

327

Syllabus.

are based on the business of that year, and we are without
informatibn as to appellant's business and return upon it
in the intervening years. We think it clear that no case
is presented which would warrant interference by this
Court with the order below denying interlocutory relief.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS concurs in the result.

CHASE NATIONAL BANK ET AL. V. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 77. Argued November 27, 28, 1928.-Decided January 2, 1929.
Section 401 of the Revenue Act of 1921 imposes a tax on "the
transfer of the net estate of every decedent" dying after the passage
of the Act, and § 402 provides that in valuing the gross estate from
which the net is computed, there shall be included the amount, over
an exemption, receivable by beneficiaries as insurance under policies
taken out by the decedent upon his own life. After the effective
date of the Act the decedent in this case procured policies on his
life payable to others but reserving to himself the right to change
beneficiaries, and paid the premiums until his death. The transfer tax assessed under the Act included an amount imposed by
reason of the inclusion in his estate of the proceeds of the policies
less exemption. Held:
(1) This part of the tax is not a direct tax onl the policies or their
proceeds, but is a tax on the privilege of transferring property of a
decedent at death. Pp. 333 et seq.
(2) The termination at death of the power of the decedent to
change beneficiaries and the consequent passing to the designated
beneficiaries of all rights under the policies freed from the possibility
of its exercise, is the legitimate subject of a transfer tax. P. 334.
(3) The fact that the proceeds of the policies were not transferred to the beneficiaries from the decedent, but from the insurer,
does not make the tax one on property. The word "transfer"
in the statute, and the privilege which may constitutionally be
taxed as an excise, includes the transfer of property procured

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the Plaintiffs.

278 U. S.

through expenditures by the decedent with the purpose, effected
by his death, of having it pass to another. P. 337. *
(4) In reaching this conclusion, it is of some significance that
by the local law applicable to the insurer and the insured in this
case, the beneficiaries' rights in the policies and their proceeds are
deemed to be the proceeds of the premiums paid by the insured,
and, as such, recoverable by one having an equitable claim on the
premiums. P. 337.
(5) Termination of the power of control at the time of death
inures to the benefit of him who owns the property subject to the
power and thus brings about, at death, the completion of that
shifting of the economic benefits of property which is the real subject of the tax, just as effectively as would its exercise. P. 338.
(6) The statutory method of fixing the tax and securing its
payment is not objectionable, as arbitrary, under the Fifth Amendment even though the tax, both on the beneficiaries of the insurance and on those who share in the decedent's estate, is larger
than it would be if the insurance proceeds were dealt with separately in taxing their transfer instead of being included in the
gross estate from which the net estate, subject to graduated tax
rates, is determined. P. 338.

RESPONSE to questions certified by the Court of Claims
in a suit by executors to recover money paid as part of an
estate tax.

Messrs. Dallas S. Townsend and Wm. Marshall Bullitt,
with whom Mr. Henry Walton Profitt was on the brief,
for The Chase National Bank et al.

The policies were the property of the beneficiaries and
no part of the estate.

Tyler v. Treasurer and Receiver

General, 226 Mass. 306; Matter of Voorhees; 200 App.
Div. (N. Y.) 259; Wagner v. Thieriot, 203 App. Div.
(N. Y.) 757; Washington Central Bank v. Hume, 128
U. S. 195.

The tax imposed is a direct tax on property by virtue
of its ownership and is void because not apportioned.
Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189; Dawson v. Kentucky
Distilleries Co., 255 U. S. 288; Pollock Case, 157 U. S.
429; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; Flint v. Stone-

CHASE NAT. BANK v. UNITED STATES.
327

329

Argument for the Plaintiffs.

Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 150; Brushaberv. Union Pacific, 240
U. S. 19; United States v. Supplee-Biddle Co., 265 U. S.
189; Frick v. Lewellyn, 298 Fed. 803, affirmed upon another ground, 268 U. S. 238.
The tax is not an "excise" tax within any definition
ever suggested by this Court. Knowlton v. Moore, 178
U. S. 41; Scholey v. Rew, 23 Wall. 331; Pollock v.
FarmersLoan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429; Hertz v. Woodman, 218 U. S. 205; Y. M. C. A. v. Davis, 264 U. S. 47;
Edwards v. Slocum, 264 U. S. 61.
The numerous decisions of this Court in federal inheritance tax cases establish the following propositions:
1. That the federal inheritance tax-whether a legacy
tax as in the 1898 Act, or a net estate tax as in the 1921
Act-was held to be an excise solely because it was imposed upon the interest of the decedent which ceased by
reason of death and thereupon passed to a beneficiaryfrom the dead to the living.
2. The property with respect to which the tax is imposed must be property of the decedent, who directed its
disposition after his own death either (1) by intestacy,
will, or deed to take effect at death, or (2) by conferring
a power of appointment on another to dispose of it at
such other's death.
3. The sole basis of sustaining such taxes as "excises
is that there is no inherent right in a decedent to direct the
disposition of his property after his death; and that as the
State alone authorizes or protects such disposition, it can
attach to such privilege any condition it chooses, and that
the federal tax is simply imposed on the exercise of the
privilege.
The tax complained of in this case does not come within
the definition of an "excise" tax:
1. Mr. Brown had no interest which could or did cease
at his death and no interest passed from him to any beneficiary upon his death since their interest in the policies
had vested in them some years previous to his death.

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the Plaintiffs.

278 U.S.

2. Mr. Brown neither owned the policies, nor did he
exercise by will or deed to take effect at death, any rights
of ownership over these policies; he neither disposed of
them nor authorized another to dispose of them; there
was no cessation of his interest upon his death, and no
transfer of such interest to another, since the property
rights in the policies were already in the beneficiaries
prior to his death.
3. The falling in of these insurance policies upon Mr.
Brown's death was not in any sense the exercise of a
privilege granted by the State. A contract to pay money
was merely performed. This was no tax on a privilege,
it was a tax on the inherent and essential element of ownership, i. e., the right to take possession of one's own
property, and as such was a tax on property.
The tax is so unreasonably determined that it is void,
even though considered as al excise tax. It lacks equality, universality and uniformity. The statute arbitrarily
makes something a part of Mr. Brown's estate which is
not part of it. Mr. Brown during his lifetime could not
gain possession of the proceeds of these policies, nor could
he by his will exercise rights of ownership over these proceeds. The plaintiff executors had no right or power over
the proceeds. The tax is assessed in this instance on Mr.
Brown's estate.
The statute attempts to give the executors a cause of
action against the beneficiaries to recover the amount of
tax paid. The cause of action is inadequate since the
executors under the statute cannot recover from the beneficiaries the full amount of the tax paid by reason of these
proceeds. A mere cause of action to recover a part of the
tax paid is not the equivalent of immunity from taxation.
The constitutional limitations on the power of taxation
must be strictly complied with, and the power to tax
cannot be made the means of imposing upon one man the
burden which should be borne by another. Loan Ass'n v.

CHASE NAT. BANK v. UNITED STATES.
327

331

Argument for the Plaintiffs.

Topeka, 20 Wall. 655; United States v. Railroad Co., 17
Wall. 322; Hartman v. Greenhow, 102 U. S. 672.
There are numerous decisions of this and other courts,
sustaining excise taxes which are measured by the value
or extent of tax-exempt property or property which would
not of itself be taxable. It will be observed from an examination of these cases that the property which is there
used as a measure of the tax is property belonging to the
taxpayer against whom the tax is assessed.
There is no suggestion in any language ever used by
this Court that Congress has power to impose a tax on
A measured by property which does not belong to A
and over which A has no control, but which belongs exclusively to B. See Wardell v. Blum, 276 Fed. 226; Frew
v. Bowers, 12 F. (2d) 625. The executors of the estate of
Mr. Brown cannot be distinguished from other executors
and estates by reason of the policies of insurance not payable to them which are here involved, which they do not
own, with reference to which they did nothing and could
do nothing, and by which they did not in any way benefit.
The most that can be said in favor of the tax here in
question is that it is a tax on the amount received by Mrs.
Brown and her two children and that the executors are
made the collectors of the tax for the United States. We
invite attention, however, to the fact that the Act attempts to give the executors the right to recover only a
part of the amount which the estate has to pay.
No argument can escape the bare fact that the tax on
the surviving beneficiary of the policy is to be determined
by the wealth of the insured decedent. If Mrs. Brown
and the Brown children were taxed at the "estate tax"
progressive rates on the insurance received, they would
pay about $1,500 and $750 each respectively, or $3,000
in all. But merely because they held insurance on a wellto-do man's life, the tax is $9,146.76.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, with whom Solicitor General
Mitchell was on the brief, for the United States.
The tax is an excise, not a direct tax. The only question is whether it is arbitrary and unreasonable to include
in the measure of decedent's estate the proceeds of the life
insurance policies.
The ownership of the policies remained in the decedent
until the moment of his death. They were bought with
his money and were an asset over which he had complete
control while he lived and could at any moment have made
payable to his estate, and if a named beneficiary should
have predeceased him, they would by their terms have
been so payable. In bankruptcy they would have been
an asset passing to the trustee.
They bore such a direct relation to his estate after death
that for many years the extent to which they should be
exempt from the rights of creditors has been the subject
of legislative regulation.
By common understanding they are regarded as part
of the estate which a man leaves when he dies, and in
England for many years have been included in the measure of death duties. Therefore, for Congress to include
them was not arbitrary but was reasonable, for they bore
a just and proper relation to the subject-matter of the tax.
Mr. L. L. Hamby filed a brief as amicus curice, by special leave of Court.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case comes here from the Court of Claims, under
§ 288, Title 28, U. S. Code, 43 Stat. 939, on certified questions of law concerning which instructions are desired for
the proper diposition of the cause. The facts certified
are: on September 13, 1922, after the effective date of
the Revenue Act of 1021, Herbert W. Brown procured
three insurance policies on his life aggregating $200,000,
each naming his wife as beneficiary. Each policy re-

CHASE NAT. BANK v. UNITED STATES.
327

333

Opinion of the Court.

served to the insured the right to change the beneficiary.*
All premiums on the policies were paid by the insured.
On April 10, 1924, he died testate, leaving the plaintiffs
below his executors and an estate subject to the estate tax
imposed by the Revenue Act of 1921, c. 136, 42 Stat.
227. The tax as assessed by the commissioner included
$9,146.76 imposed by reason of the inclusion in the estate
of the proceeds of the three insurance policies, less $40,000
exemption authorized by the statute. The executors paid
the tax and, upon denial of a claim for refund, brought
the present suit in the Court of Claims to recover the
tax as illegally assessed.
The questions certified are:
Question I: Whether the tax imposed by the final
clause of section 402 (f), Revenue Act of 1921, 42 Stat.
278, on life insurance policies payable in terms to beneficiaries "other than the decedent or his estate" is a
direct tax on property and void because not apportioned.
Question II: Whether the $9,146.76 tax imposed bears
such an unreasonable relation to the subject matter of the
tax as to render it void.
Similar questions were mooted by counsel, but not decided, in Lewellyn v. Frick, 268 U. S.238, 251.
Section 401 of the Revenue Act of 1921 imposes a tax
upon "the transfer of the net estate of every decedent"
dying after the passage of the' act, and § 402 provides:
" That the value of the gross estate of the decedent shall
be determined by including the value at the time of his
death of all property . . .tangible or intangible . . . (f)

To the extent of the amount receivable by the executor
as insurance under policies taken out by the decedent
upon his own life; and to the extent of the excess over
$40,000 of the amount receivable by all other beneficiaries
as insurance under policies taken out by the decedent
* REPORTER'S NOTE.-This right was exercised as to one policy before
his death by substituting children.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

upon his own life." By § 406 the executor is required to
pay the tax, but, if so paid, he is given by § 408 the right
to recover from the beneficiaries a part of the tax, and
by § 409 they are made personally liable for a share of
it if not so paid.
In the present case there is no question of the construction of the statute. The tax is plainly imposed by the
explicit language of §§ 401 and 402 (f) if those sections
are constitutionally applied. Plaintiffs challenge the
validity of the tax on the ground that it is not an excise
or privilege tax but a direct tax on property, the insurance
policies or their proceeds, and so is invalid because not
apportioned as required by Art. I, §§ 2, 9 of the federal
Constitution, and that in any case the measure of the tax
and the methods of securing its payment are so arbitrary and capricious as to violate the due process clause
of the Fifth Amendment.
The statute in terms taxes transfers. Like provisions
in earlier acts have been generally upheld as imposing a
tax on the privilege of transferring the property of a
decedent at death, measured by the value of the interest
transferred or which ceases at death. Cf. Y. M. C. A. v.
Davis, 264 U. S. 47, 50; Edwards v. Slocum, 264 U. S.
61, 62; New York Trust Co. v. Eisner,256 U. S. 345, 349;
Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531.
It is true, as emphasized by plaintiffs, that the interest
of the beneficiaries in the insurance policies effected by
decedent " vested " in them before his death and that the
proceeds of the policies came to the beneficiaries not directly from the decedent but from the insurer. But until
the moment of death the decedent retained a legal interest in the policies which gave him the power of disposition of them and their proceeds as completely as if he
were himself the beneficiary of them. The precise question presented is whether the termination at death of
that power and the consequent passing to the designated
beneficiaries of all rights under the policies freed of the

CHASE NAT. BANK v. UNITED STATES.
'327

335

Opinion of the Court.

possibility of its exercise may be the legitimate subject
of a transfer tax, as is true of the termination by death
of any of the other legal incidents of property through
which its use or economic enjoyment may be controlled.
A power in the decedent to surrender and cancel the
policies, to pledge them as security for loans and the power
to dispose of them and thdir proceeds for his own benefit
during his life which subjects them to the control of a
bankruptcy court for the benefit of his creditors, Cohen
v. Samuels, 245 U. S. 50 (see Burlingham v. Crouse, 228
U. S. 459), and which may, under local law applicable to
the parties here, subject them in part to the payment of
his debts, N. Y. Domestic Relations Law, c. 14, Consol.
Laws § 52; Kittel v. Domeyer, 175 N. Y. 205; Guardian
Trust Co. v. Straus, 139 App. Div. 884, aff'd 201 N. Y.
546, is by no means the least substantial of the legal incidents of ownership, and its termination at his death so as
to free the beneficiaries of the policy from the possibility
of its exercise would seem to be no less a transfer within
the reach of the taxing power than a transfer effected in
other ways through death.
In Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276 U. S. 260, a tax had
been imposed by state statute on the succession to a remainder interest which had vested under a trust created
before the enactment of the taxing act. It was objected
that the tax was void as retroactive and hence in conflict
with the Fourteenth Amendment of the federal Constitution under the ruling in Nichols v. Coolidge, supra,later
applied in Untermyer v. Anderson, 276 U. S. 440. But by
the provisions of the trust indenture a power of disposition of the remainder had been reserved to the settlor to
be exercised by him at any time during his life, with the
concurrence of one trustee, and we held that the freeing
of the remainder of the possibility of the exercise of that
power, through its termination by the death of the settlor,
effected a transfer which was the appropriate subject of a

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

succession tax and that the tax was not retroactive since
the termination of the power which was prerequisite to
the complete succession did not occur until after the enactment of the statute. The Court said (p. 271):
"So long as the privilege of succession has not been
fully exercised it may be reached by the tax. See Cahen
v. Brewster, 203 U. S. 543; Orr v. Gilman, 183 U. S. 278;
Chanlerv. Kelsey, supra; Moffitt v. Kelly, supra; Nickel
v. Cole, supra. And in determining whether it has been
so exercised technical distinctions between vested remainders and other interests are of little avail, for the
shifting of the economic benefits and burdens of
property, which is the subject of a succession tax, may
even in the case of a vested remainder be restricted or
suspended by other legal devices. A power of appointment reserved by the donor leaves the transfer, as to him,
incomplete and subject to tax. Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240
U. S. 625. The beneficiary's acquisition of the property
is equally incomplete whether the power be reserved to
the donor or another."
That, it is true, was said of a succession tax, and we are
here concerned with a transfer tax. The distinction was
there important for it was at least doubtful whether upon
the death of the settlor there was any such termination,
as to him, of a power of control over the remainder such as
would have been subject to a tax levied exclusively on
transfers, since the power was not vested in him alone, but
in him and another. See Reinecke v. Northern Trust
Company, decided this day, post, p. 339. But we think
that the rule applied in Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, supra,
to a succession tax is equally applicable to a transfer tax
where, as here, the power of disposition is reserved exclusively to the transferor for his own benefit. Such an
outstanding power residing exclusively in a donor to recall
a gift after it is made is a limitation on the gift which
makes it incomplete as to the donor as well as to the

CHASE NAT. BANK v. UNITED STATES.

337

Opinion of the Court.

327

donee, and we think that the termination of such a power
at death may also be the appropriate subject of a tax
upon transfers.
But the plaintiffs say that the tax here must be deemed
to be a tax on property because the beneficiaries' interests
in the policies were not transferred to them from the decedent, but from the insurer, and hence there was nothing
to which a transfer or privilege tax could apply. Obviously, the word " transfer" in the statute, or the privilege
which may constitutionally be taxed, cannot be taken in
such a restricted sense as to refer only to the passing of
particular items of property directly from the decedent
to the transferee. It must, we think, at least include the
transfer of property procured through expenditures by
the decedent with the purpose, effected at his death, of
having it pass to another. Sec. 402 (c) taxes transfers
made in contemplation of death. It would not, we assume, be seriously argued that its provisions could be
evaded by the purchase by a decedent from a third person
of property, a savings bank book for example, and its
delivery by the seller directly to the intended beneficiary
on the purchaser's death, or that the measure of the tax
would be the cost and not the value or proceeds at the
time of death. It is of some significance also that by the
local law applicable to the insurer and the insured in this
case, a beneficiary's rights in the policy and its proceeds
are deemed to be the proceeds of the premiums expended
by the insured and as such recoverable in full by one having an equitable claim attaching to the premiums.
Holmes v. Gilman, 138 N. Y. 369.
The plaintiffs point to no requirement, constitutional
or statutory, that the termination of the power of disposition of property by death whereby the transfer of property is completed, which we have said is here the subject
of the tax, must be preceded by a transfer directly from
the decedent to the recipient of his bounty, of the property
27228-29-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

subject to the power. And we see no necessity to debate
the question whether the policies themselves were so
transferred, for we think the power to tax the privilege of
transfer at death cannot be controlled by the mere choice
of the formalities which may attend the donor's bestowal
of benefits on another at death, or of the particular methods by which his purpose is effected, so long as he retains
control over those benefits with power to direct their future enjoyment until his death. Termination of the
power of control at the time of death inures to the benefit
of him who owns the property subject to the power and
thus brings about, at death, the completion of that shifting
of the economic benefits of property which is the real
subject of the tax, just as effectively as would its exercise,
which latter may be subjected to a privilege tax, Chanler
v. Kelsey, 205 U. S. 466. "To make a distinction between
a general power and a limitation in fee is to grasp at a
shadow while the substance escapes." Sugden, Powers,
8th ed., 396; see Gray, Perpetuities, 3d ed. 1915, § 526 (b).
And the non-exercise of the power may be as much a disposition of property testamentary in nature as would be its
exercise at death, Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625; cf.
United States v. Robbins, 269 U. S. 315, 327; Cohen v.
Samuels, supra.
The objection urged by plaintiffs under the second question, that the statutory method of fixing the tax and securing its payment infringes the Fifth Amendment, need
not detain us. It is said that both the tax on those who
share in the decedent's estate and that paid by the beneficiaries is larger than it otherwise would be if the proceeds of the insurance had not been included in the decedent's gross estate. But the increase in the tax to both is
a consequence of including the amount of the policies in
the gross estate in determining the net which is made
the measure of the graduated transfer tax. The objection
amounts to no more than saying that if the transfer of

REINECKE v. TRUST CO.
327

Syllabus.

the policies or their proceeds be taxed, they should not be
included with the other property of the estate in determining the rate of the tax. As it is the termination of the
power of disposition of the policies by decedent at death
which operates as an effective transfer and is subjected
to the tax, there can be no objection to measuring the tax
or fixing its rate by including in the gross estate the value
of the policies at the time of death, together with all the
other interests of decedent transferred at his death. Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137. The inclusion in the gross
estate of gifts made in contemplation of death under
§ 402 (c) has a like effect.
Other objections to the operation of the statute are not
discussed either because they are not of weight or are not
presented by the certified facts.
The questions propounded by the Court of Claims in
form suggest that the tax is one imposed by the statute
upon the policies. This we have shown is not the case.
It is the transfer, which is a concomitant of the criteria
laid down by the statute for imposing the tax, which is the
subject of the tax. The tax is not on the policies, but we
answer the question as if inquiring about the true subject
of the tax.
Both questions are answered, No.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

and

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

dissent.
REINECKE, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 90.

Argued December 4, 5, 1928.-Decided January 2, 1929.

1. Respondent's testator in his lifetime conveyed property in trust
to pay the income to himself and on his death to pay it to

