HART REFINERIES v. HARMON.
496

Syllabus.

The Railroad contends also that there was error in
assessing the damages. It argues that nominal damages
only were recoverable since the plaintiff failed to introduce
evidence either as to the proper method of computing the
present value of the anticipated benefits or as to the rate
of interest which should be applied in doing so. The
evidence was ample. Among other things, there were
mortality tables introduced by the plaintiff and annuity
tables offered by the Railroad-tables in which values
were computed at both the six per cent and the seven per
cent rate. The Railroad argues also that the charge failed
to make it clear to the jury that, in computing the damages recoverable for the deprivation of future benefits,
adequate allowance must be made, according to circumstances, for the earning power of money; that the verdict
should be for the present value of the anticipated benefits;
and that the legal rate of interest is not necessarily the
rate to be applied in making the computation. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. v. Kelly, 241 U. S. 485, 491; Gulf,
Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. v. Moser, 275 U. S. 133. There
is no room for a contention that the charge failed to state
correctly the applicable rule. If more detailed instruction
was desired, it was incumbent upon the Railroad to make
a request therefor. Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. followay, 246 U. S. 525. It did not do so.
Affirmed.
HART REFINERIES v. HARMON, TREASURER OF
THE STATE OF MONTANA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MONTANA.

No. 210.

Submitted January 15, 1929.-Decided February 18, 1929.

. A State may tax the use as well as the sale of gasoline which has
been imported into the State and has come to rest there, provided
there be no discrimination against the commodity because of its
origin in another State. P. 501.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

2 A state law imposing an excise based on sales of gasoline that
is made in the State or is brought in and has come to rest in the
State, is not unduly discriminatory, contrary to the equal protection clause, because it lays no tax on the use of imported gasoline
after it acquires such local status. P. 502.
81 Mont. 423, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Montana affirming a judgment against the appellant in
its action against the State Treasurer to recover money
paid under protest as taxes. See also Hart Refineries v.
Montana, post, pp. 574, 584.
Mr. John E. Patersonsubmitted for appellant.
Messrs. L. A. Foot, Attorney General of Montana, and
A. H. Angstman, Assistant Attorney General, for appellee.
Mr. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
A Montana statute (§§ 2382 and 2383 Revised Codes
1921, as amended by c. 186,. Laws 1925) levies an excise
tax upon distributors and dealers engaged within the
state in the business of refining, manufacturing, producing, or compounding gasoline or distillate and selling the
same in the state, and also upon those engaged within
the state in the business of shipping, transporting, or importing any gasoline or distillate into the state and selling
the same in the state after it has been brought to rest
therein. The basis of the tax is the sale of gasoline or
distillate, and the statute, in that respect, makes no discrimination, except that it properly excludes from the
operation of the tax the imported commodity while it
continues subject to the commerce clause of the Constitution. Raley & Bros. v. Richardson, 264 U. S. 157, 159.
Thus far the validity of the statute is conceded.
But the contention is that the statute discriminates
against the Montana refiner because-it is not extended

HART REFINERIES v. HARMON.
499

Opinion of the Court.

to include gasoline or distillate shipped from other states
and consumed or used after it has come to rest in Montana and its status in interstate commerce has ended.
Upon this ground the statute is challenged as constituting a denial of the equal protection of the laws, in
contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment to the federal Constitution. The Supreme Court of Montana upheld the statute as valid, 81 Mont. 423, following its
earlier decision in State v. Silver Bow Refining Co., 78
Mont. 1, 19, where it was held that, while a tax upon the
sale of imported oil aftei it had come to rest in the state
or upon such oil as property would be valid, any attempt
to lay a tax upon products shipped into the state for consumption only would be a burden upon interstate
commerce.
This holding, as it was applied to the contention in the
present case, seems to have been the result of a too literal
reading of Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton, 262 U. S. 506,
which was cited as authority. In that case, this Court,
upon a full review of the earlier cases, held that when a
commodity shipped from another state had come to rest
as a part of the stock in trade of the dealer, the interstate
transportation was at an end, and, whether in the original
packages or not, a state tax upon the commodity, either
as property or upon its sale in the state, if laid on the
commodity generally without regard to its origin, would
not constitute a burden upon or be a regulation of interstate commerce of which the commodity had been the
subject. But there is nothing in the opinion to suggest
that the taxing power of the state is limited to the two
kinds of taxes mentioned. Interstate transportation having ended, the taxing power of the state in respect of
the commodity which was the subject of such transportation, may, so far as the commerce clause of the federal
Constitution is concerned, be exerted in any way which
the state's constitution and laws permit, provided, of

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

course, it does not discriminate against the commodity
because of its origin in another state. That under such
circumstances a tax may be imposed upon the use as well
as upon the sale of the commodity in domestic trade,
without coming into conflict with the commerce clause,
was specifically- determined in Bowman v. Continental
Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642, 648.
But because the state legislature could have laid a tax
upon the use of the commodity as well as upon its sale,
it by no means follows that a failure to do so constituted
a discrimination forbidden by the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. That clause does not
prohibit classification; and the power of the state to
classify for purposes of taxation is of wide range and
flexibility, provided that the classification rest upon a
substantial difference so that all persons similarly circumstanced will be treated alike. Statutes which tax one class
of property while exempting another class necessarily
result in imposing a greater burden upon the property
taxed than would be the case if the omitted property were
included. But such statutes do not create an inequality
in the constitutional sense. Nor is the imposition of an
excise tax upon one occupation or one activity from which
other and different occupations or activities are exempt,
a denial of equal protection. It is enough if all in the
same class are included and treated alike. These propositionl are so firmly established by repeated decisions of
this Court that further discussion is unnecessary. Bell's
Gap R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237; Home
Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594, 606; Keeney v. New
York, 222 U. S. 525, 536; Citizens' Telephone Co. v.
Fuller, 229 U. S. 322, 329-331; Merchants' Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167 U. S. 461, 463; American Sugar Refining Co.
v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89, 92; Pacific Express Company v.
Seibert, 142 U. S. 339, 350; Southwestern Oil Co..v. Texas,

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. MINNESOTA.
499

503

Syllabus.

217 U. S. 114, 121; Brown-Forman Co. v. Kentucky, 217
U. S. 563, 572; Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172, 179.
The difference between an excise tax based on sales
and one based on use of property is obvious and substantial. If the state sees fit to tax one and not the other,
there is nothing in the federal Constitution to prevent;
and it is not for this Court to question the wisdom or
expediency of the action taken or to overturn the tax upon
the ground that to include both would have resulted in a
more equitable distribution of the burdens of taxation.
Judgment affirmed.
GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
MINNESOTA.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF
MINNESOTA.

Nos. 106 and 107. Argued January 9, 1929.-Decided February
18, 1929.
-

A state tax on the local property of a railway company measured
upon gross receipts from intrastate business, and upon gross receipts from interstate business in the proportion which the mileage
of the railway within the State bears to the entire mileage of the
railway over which such interstate business is done, is not a burden to interstate commerce or violative of the due process and
equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, though
part of the property devoted to interstate commerce consist of
docks outside of the State at the terminus of a line running from
within it, and though the compensation received for the services of
such docks be included in the gross receipts of that line in computing the gross receipts attributable to the taxable part of it.
So held where the principal, and a very lucrative, business of
the line in question was hauling ore from mines in the taxing
State to the terminal docks; where the line and the docks were
treated by the railway as a unit, the charge for dock service being

