OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Counsel for Parties.

278 U. S.

WASHINGTON EX REL SEATTLE TITLE TRUST
COMPANY, TRUSTEE, ETC. V. ROBERGE, SUPERINTENDENT OF BUILDING OF SEATTLE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 29.

Argued October 11, 12, 1928.-Decided November 19, 1928.

1. Zoning measures must find their justification in the police power
exerted in the public interest; unnecessary and unreasonable restrictions may not be imposed upon the use of private property or the
pursuit of useful activities. P. 120.
2. A trust company owning and maintaining, as trustee, a philanthropic home for old people in a residential district, sought to
replace the structure with a larger one for the same purposes, but
was denied a permit under a zoning ordinance providing that such
a building should be permitted "when the written consent shall
have been obtained of the owners of two-thirds of the property
within 400 feet of the proposed building." The denial was based
upon the sole ground that such consent had not been obtained,
there being nothing to show that the building and its use would
constitute a nuisance or be otherwise objectionable in the community or conflict with the public interest or the general zoning
plan. Held:
(1) That the condition requiring consent of property owners was
repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 121.
(2) The condition being void, the trustee was entitled to a
permit. P. 123.
144 Wash. 74, reversed.

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington, which affirmed the dismissal of an action for a
writ of mandate to compel the Superintendent of Building of the City of Seattle to issue a permit to the relator,
the plaintiff in error.
ERROR

Mr. Corwin S. Shank, with whom Mr. Glenn J. Fairbrook was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. A. C. Van Soelen, with whom Mr. Thomas J. L.
Kennedy was on the brief, for defendant in error.

SEATTLE TRUST CO. v. ROBERGE.
116"

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Since 1914, the above named trustee has owned and
maintained a philanthropic home for aged poor. It is
located about six miles from the business center of Seattle
on a tract 267 feet wide, extending from Seward Park
Avenue to Lake Washington, having an average depth of
more than 700 feet and an area of about five acres. The
home is a structure built for and formerly used as a private residence. It is large enough to accommodate about
14 guests and usually it has had about that number. The
trustee proposes to remove the old building and in its
place at a cost of about $100,000 to erect an attractive
two and one-half story fireproof house large enough to
be a home for 30 persons. The structure would be located
280 feet from the avenue on the. west and about 400 feet
from the lake. on the east, cover four pier cent. of the
tract and be mostly hidden by trees and shrubs. The
distance between it and the nearest building on the south
would be 110 feet, on the north 160 and on the west 365.
A comprehensive zoning ordinance (No. 45382) passed
in 1923 divided the city into six use districts and provided
that, with certain exceptions not material here, no building should be erected for any purpose other than that per-mitted in the district in which the site is located. § 2.
The land in question is in the "First Residence District."
The ordinance permitted in that district single family
dwellings, public schools, certain private schools, churches,
parks, and playgrounds, an art gallery, private conservatories for plants and flowers, railroad and shelter stations.
§ 3 a. And, upon specified conditions, it also permitted
garages, stables, buildings for domestic animals, the office
of physician, dentist or other professional person when
located in his or her dwelling (§ 3 b), fraternity, sorority
and boarding houses, a community clubhouse, a memorial
building, nurseries, greenhouses, and buildings necessary

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

for the operation of public utilities. § 3 c. It declared
that the section should not be construed to prohibit the
use of vacant property in such district for gardening or
fruit raising, or its temporary use for fairs, circuses, or
similar purposes. § 3 e. By an ordinance (No. 49179)
passed in 1925, § 3 c was amended by adding: "A philanthropic home for children or for old people shall be permitted in First Residence District when the written consent shall have been obtained of the owners of two-thirds
of the property within four hundred (400) feet of the
proposed building." *
• The pertinent provisions of the ordinance as amended follow:
The title is:
An ordinance regulating and restricting the location of trades and
industries; regulating and limiting the use of buildings and premises
and the height and size of buildings; providing for yards, courts or
other open spaces; and establishing districts for the said purposes.
Section 2:
(a) For the purpose of regulating, classifying and restricting the
location of trades and industries and the location of buildings designed,
erected or altered for specified uses, The City of Seattle is hereby
divided into six (6) Use Districts, namely: First Residence District,
Second Residence District, Business District, Commercial District,
Manufacturing District and Industrial District.
(b) The boundaries of the aforesaid districts are laid out and
shown upon the map designated "Use Map," filed in the office of
the City Comptroller and ex-officio City Clerk ....
The Use Districts on said map are hereby established.
(c) .. . No building shall be erected, altered, or used, nor shall
any premises be used, for any purpose other than that permitted in
the use district in which such building or premises is located.
(d) Where a use in any district is conditioned upon a public hearing or the consent of surrounding property, such use if existing at
the time this ordinance becomes effective, shall be allowed repairs or
rebuilding without such hearing or consent.
Section 3. First Residence District.
(a) The following uses only are permitted in a First Residence
District:
(1) Single Family Dwellings.

SEATTLE TRUST CO. v. ROBERGE.
116

Opinion of the Court.

Subsequently the trustee, without having obtained
consents of other landowners in accordance with the
provisions just quoted, applied for a permit to erect the
new home. It is the superintendent's official duty to
issue permits for buildings about to be erected in accordance with valid enactments and regulations. He denied
the application solely because of the trustee's failure to
furnish such consents. Then the trustee brought this
suit in the superior court of King County to secure its
judgment and writ commanding the superintendent, to
issue the permit; and it maintained throughout that the
ordinance, if construed to prevent the erection of the
proposed building, is arbitrary and repugnant to the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
(2) Public Schools.
(3) Private Schools in which prescribed courses of study only are
given and are graded in a manner similar to public schools or are of
a higher degree.
(4) Churches.
(5) Parks and Playgrounds (including usual park buildings).
(6) Art Gallery or Library Building.
(7) Private Conservatories for Plants and Flowers.
(8) Railroad and Shelter Stations.
(b) In a First Residence District, buildings and uses such as are
ordinarily appurtenant to dwellings shall be permitted, subject to the
limitations herein provided. A garage in a first residence district
shall not occupy more than seven per cent (7%) of the area of the
lot, and the business of repairing motor vehicles shall not be conducted therein. In the case of a private stable, the written consent
must be obtained of the owners of fifty (50) per cent of the property
within a radius of two hundred (200) feet of the proposed building.
The number of animals, not counting sucklings, in a private stable
shall not exceed one for every two thousand (2,000) square feet contained in the area. of the lot on which such building is located. Not
more than one appurtenant building having a floor area of not to
exceed thirty (30) square feet which is used for the housing of domestic animals or fowls shall be permitted on any lot in the First Residence District, except that a building of greater area or a greater
number of buildings shall be permitted when the written consent

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

Amendment. That court held that the amended ordinance so construed is valid and dismissed the case. Its
judgment was affirmed by the highest court of the State.
144 Wash. 74
The trustee concedes that our recent decisions require
that in its general scope the ordinance be held valid.
Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365. Zahn v.
Board of Public Works, 274 U. S. 325. Gorieb v. Fox,
274 U. S. 603. Nectow v. Cambridge, 277 U. S. 183. Is
the delegation of power to owners of adjoining land to
make inoperative the permission, given by § 3 (c) as
amended, repugnant to the due process clause? Zoning
shall have been obtained of the owners of fifty (50) per cent of the
dwellings within two hundred (200) feet of the proposed building;
provided that such consent shall not be required if the number of
said dwellings is less than four (4). The office of a physician, dentist,
or other professional person when located in his or her dwelling, also
home occupations engaged in by individuals within their dwellings
shall be considered as accessory uses, provided that no window display is made or any sign shown other than one not exceeding two (2)
square feet in area and bearing only the name and occupation of the
occupant. The renting of rooms for lodging purposes only, for the
accommodation of not to exceed six (6) persons, in a single family
dwelling shall be considered ai) accessory use.
(c) A fraternity house, sorority house or boarding house when
occupied by students and supervised by the authorities of a public
educational institution, a private school other than one specified in
paragraph (a) this section (3), a community club house, memorial
building, nursery or greenhouse, or a building which is necessary for
the proper operation of a public utility may be permitted by the
Board of Public Works after a public hearing. A philanthropic home
for children or for old people shall be permitted in First Residence
District when the written consent shall have been obtained of the
owners of two-thirds of the property within four hundred (400)
feet of the proposed building.
(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the use
of vacant property for gardening or fruit raising or its temporary
use, oonformab!e to Law, for fairs, circuses or similar purposes.

SEATTLE TRUST CO. v. ROBERGE.
116

Opinion of the Court.

measures must find their justification in the police power
exerted in the interest of the public. Euclid v. Ambler
Realty Co., supra, 387. "The governmental power to
interfere by zoning regulations with the general rights
of the land owner by restricting the character of his use,
is not unlimited and, other questions aside, such restriction
cannot be imposed if it does not bear a substantial relation to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare." Nectow v. Cambridge, supra,p. 188. Legislatures
may not, under the guise of the police power, impose
restrictions that are unnecessary and unreasonable upon
the use of private property or the pursuit of useful activities. Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 137. Adams
v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590, 594. Meyer v. Nebraska, 262
U. S. 390, 399-400. Burns Baking Co. v. Bryan, 264
U. S. 504, 513. Norfolk Ry. v. Public Service Comm'n,
265 U. S. 70, 74. Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S.
510, 534-535. Weaver v. Palmer Bros. Co., 270 U. S.
402, 412, 415. Tyson & Brother v. Banton, 273 U. S.
418, 442.
The right of the trustee to devote its land to any
legitimate use is properly within the protection of the Constitution. The facts disclosed by the record make it clear
that the exclusion of the new home from the first district
is not indispensable to the general zoning plan. And there
is no legislative determination that the proposed building
and use would be inconsistent with public health, safety,
morals or general welfare. The enactment itself plainly
implies the contrary. The grant of permission for such
building and use, although purporting to be subject
to such consents, shows that the legislative body found
that the construction and maintenance of the new home
was in harmony with the public interest and with the
general scope and plan of the zoning ordinance. The section purports to give the owners of less than one-half the
land within 400 feet of the proposed building authority-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

uncontrolled by any standard or rule prescribed by legislative action-to prevent the trustee from using its land
for the proposed home. The superintendent is bound by
the decision or inaction of such owners. There is no provision for review under the ordinance; their failure to
give consent is final. They are not bound by any official
duty, but are free to withhold consent for selfish reasons
or arbitrarily and may subject the trustee to their will or
caprice. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 366, 368.
The delegation of power so attempted is repugnant to
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137, 143. Browning v.
Hooper, 269 U. S. 396.
Cusack Co. v. City of Chicago, 242 U. S. 526, involved
an ordinance prohibiting the putting up of any billboard
in a residential district without the consent of owners of
a majority of the frontage on both sides of the street in
the block where the board was to be erected The question was whether the clause requiring such consents was
an unconstitutional delegation of power and operated to
invalidate the prohibition. The case was held unlike
Eubank v. Richmond, supra, and the ordinance was fully
sustained. The facts found were sufficient to warrant the
conclusion that such billboards would or were liable to
endanger the safety and decency of such districts. Pp.
529, 530. It is not suggested that the proposed new home
for aged poor would be a nuisance. We find nothing in
the record reasonably tending to show that its construction or maintenance is liable to work any injury, inconvenience or annoyance to the community, the district or
any person. The facts shown clearly distinguish the proposed building and use from such billboards or other uses
which by reason of their nature are liable to be offensive.
As the attempted delegation of power cannot be sustained, and the restriction thereby sought to be put upon

JORDAN v. TASHIRO.
116

Syllabus.

the permission is arbitrary and repugnant to the due
process clause, it is the duty of the superintendent to
issue, and the trustee is entitled to have, the permit
applied for.
We need not decide whether, consistently with the Fourteenth Amendment, it is within the power of the State
or municipality by a general zoning law to exclude the
proposed new home from a district defined as is the first
district in the ordinance under consideration.
Judgment rever8ed.
JORDAN, SECRETARY OF STATE OF CALIFORNIA,
ET AL. v. TASHIRO ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 13. Argued April 13, 1928. Reargued October 9, 1928.-Decided
November 19, 1928.
1. Where, by the terms of a state law, aliens were entitled to file
articles of incorporation for certain purposes if so privileged by a
treaty of the United States, and not otherwise, and the highest
court of the State granted them a writ of mandamus against state
officers upon the ground that such privilege, specially set up and
claimed, was secured by the treaty, a review of the case at the
instance of the officers is within the jurisdiction of this Court under
Jud. Code, § 237 (b). P. 126.
2. Obligations of treaties should be liberally construed to effect the
apparent intention of the parties to secure equality and reciprocity
between them. Where a treaty admits of two constructions, one
restricting the rights that may be claimed under it and the other
enlarging them, the more liberal construction is to be preferred.
P. 127.
3. The treaty of commerce and navigation between the United States
and Japan authorizes citizens of Japan to carry on trade within
the United States and "to lease land for residential and commercial purposes, and generally to do anything incident to or necessary
for trade upon the same terms as native citizens or subjects, submitting themselves to the laws and regulations there established."

