EX PARTE PUBLIC BANK.
96

Statement of the Case.

to let the decree stand. We, therefore, pass the matter
without consideration and accept the opinion and decree
below, with the modification that all carcasses of deer and
parts thereof shipped outside the boundaries of the reserves shall be plainly marked by tags or otherwise, in
such manner as the Secretary of Agricuture may by regulations prescribe, to show that the deer were killed under
his authority within the limits of the reserves.
Thus modified the decree is affirmed.
EX PARTE THE PUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF
NEW YORK.
ON PETITION FOR A WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

No. 16 Original. Argued October 29, 1928.-Decided November 19,
1928.
1. Section 266 of the ludicial Code, which provides that no injunction
restraining the enforcement of any statute of a State by restraining
the action "of any officer of such State" in the enforcement of such
statute shall be granted upon the ground of unconstitutionality of
such statute,. except upon a hearing and determination by a court
composed of three judges, does not apply where the action sought
to be enjoined is that of a municipal officer in performance of local,
as distinguished from state, functions. P. 103.
2. A case has not the force of a precedent on a question which,
though existent in the record, was not raised or considered by the
court. P. 105.
Rule discharged.

UPON RETURN tO a rule issued by this Court to three
judges who had convened as a district court under Jud.
Code, § 266, in an injunction suit, but had dissolved of
their own motion in the belief that the suit was not within
that section. The rule called upon them to show cause
why a writ of mandamus should not issue requiring them
to reconvene and proceed with the suit.

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

Mr. Martin Saxe, with whom Messrs. Henry L. Moses,
Robert C. Beatty, Herman G. Kopald, and Edward F.
Colladay were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Win. H. King, with whom Messrs. George P. Nicholson and Eugene Fay were on the brief, for Mr. Andrew
B. Keating, as Receiver of Taxes of the City of New York,
and Mr. William Reid, Jr., as City Collector.
Mr. Henry &. Manley, with whom Mr. Albert Ottinger,
Attorney General, was on the brief, for the State of New
York.
Honorable Learned Hand and Honorable Augustus N.
Hand, Circuit Judges, and Honorable William Bondy,
District Judge, submitted on printed return for themselves.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioner, a national banking association organized- under the National Bank Act, with its principal
office in the City of New York, brought suit in the federal district court for the southern district of New York
against Andrew B. Keating, receiver, and William Reid,
Jr., collector of taies of the City of New York, to enjoin
them from collecting taxes assessed against shares in the
association in pursuance of a state law but by, and for the
sole use of, the city. The prayer for relief rested upon
the contention that the provisions of the state law, which
fixed the rate of tax, discriminated in favor of other
moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of
the state, in contravention of § 5219 Rev. Stats., and of
provisions of the Constitution of the United States. A
statutory court of three judges was constituted under
§ 266 of the Judicial Code (U. S. Code, Title 28, § 380),
and a master appointed, by whom evidence was taken and

EX PARTE PUBLIC BANK.
101

Opinion of the Court.

reported. When the case came on for final hearing, the
court, of its own motion, dissolved after directing that
the cause proceed before a single district judge upon the
ground that the suit was not one coming within the terms
of § 266. Petitioner applied to this Court for a writ of
mandamus requiring the judges composing the statutory
court to reconvene and proceed to a determination of
the case. Upon filing the petition, a rule to show cause
was issued, upon a return to which the application has
been heard.
The statutory court held that § 266 did not apply because neither of the defendants was an officer of the state
and the suit involved only the action of city officials in
the collection of taxes for the use of the city. In support of this ruling, Ex parte Collins, 277 U. S. 565,
was relied upon. In that case suit was brought to
enjoin proceedings under a resolution of the City of
Phoenix, Arizona, directing the paving of a street upon
which petitioner was an abutting owner. The improvement was to be made pursuant to general statutes of the
state, which were assailed as contravening the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The district
judge denied a request to call two judges to sit with him,
upon the ground that the case did not come within § 266.
This Court sustained the action of the district judge and
held that the section did not apply, although the constitutionality of a statute was challenged, because the
defendants were local officers and the suit concerned
matters of interest only to the particular municipality
involved. We need add little to what we there said.
Section 266 provides that no injunction "restraining
the enforcement . . . of any statute of a State by restraining the action of any officer of such State in the
enforcement . . . of such statute . . . shall be issued or
granted . . . upon the ground of the unconstitutionality
of such statute" except upon a hearing and determina-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

tion of a court composed of three judges. The suit here
involved the constitutionality of a state statute, but it
was not brought to restrain "the action of any officer
of such State in the enforcement" thereof. The persons
sued are municipal officers, having no state functions to
perform, but charged only with the duty of collecting
and receiving taxes assessed by other city officials in no
respect for the use of the state but for and in behalf of
the city alone. In effect, the contention for petitioner
practically comes to this-that the general purpose of §
266 being to safeguard state legislation assailed as unconstitutional from the improvident action of federal
courts, the words "by restraining the action of any officer
of such State in the enforcement . . of such statute"
are without significance. In other words, we are asked
to ignore the quoted words and read the section as though
they were not there.
But we are not at liberty thus to deny effect to a part
of a statute. No rule of statutory construction has been
more definitely stated or more often repeated than the
cardinal rule that "significance and effect shall, if possible, be accorded to every word. As early as in Bacon's
Abridgment, sect. 2, it was said that 'a statute ought,
upon the whole, to be so construed that, if it can be prevented, no clause, sentence, or word shall be superfluous,
void, or insignificant.'" Market Co. v. Hoffman, 101
U. S. 112, 115. We are unable to perceive any ground for
departing from the rule in the case before us. It follows
that, giving effect to the phrase in question, § 266 requires the concurrence of two things in order to give the
three-judge court jurisdiction: (1) the suit must seek to
have a state statute declared unconstitutional, or that in
effect, and (2) it must seek to restrain the action of an
officer of the state in the enforcement of such statute.
See Henrietta Mills Co. v. Rutherford County, 26 F. (2d)
799, 800; Connor v. Board of Comm'rs of Logan County,

LIGGETT CO. v. BALDRIDGE.
101

Syllabus.

Ohio, 12 F. (2d) 789, 790; Connecting Gas Co. v. Imes,
11 F. (2d) 191, 194-195. The second requisite here is
lacking.
Our attention is directed to several cases disposed of
under § 266, where this Court passed on the merits although the suits were against local officers. We do not
stop to inquire whether, at least in some of these cases,
the so-called local officers in fact represented the state
or exercised state functions in the matters involved and
properly might be held to come within the provision of
§ 266 now under review. Compare, for example, People
ex rel. Plancon v. Prendergast,219 N. Y. 252, 258; State
ex rel. Lopas v. Shagren, 91 Wash. 48, 52; Griffin v.
Rhoton, 85 Ark. 89, 93-94; Fellows v. Mayor, 8 Hun. 484,
485-488; Chickasha Cotton Oil Co. v. Lamb & Tyner, 28
Okla. 275, 286. It is enough to say, as was said in the
Collins case, that the propriety of the hearing before three
judges was not considered in the cases to which we are
referred; and they cannot be regarded as having decided
the question. Webster v. Fall, 266 U. S. 507, 511; United
States v. Mitchell, 271 U. S. 9, 14.
Rule discharged.
LOUIS K. LIGGETT COMPANY v. BALDRIDGE,
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF PENNSYLVANIA,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 34. Argued October 8, 1928.-Decided November 19, 1928.
1. The business of a foreign corporation is property, and the corporation a "person," within the meaning of the due process and equal
protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 111.
2. A foreign corporation may not be subjected to statutes that are
in conflict with the Federal Constitution by a State in which it has
been permitted to do business. Id.

