OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

278 U. S.

to its long haul and, by way of example, pointed out that
the Pennsylvania would have the long haul on traffic originating on its terminals in Pittsburgh destined to a point
on the Baltimore & Ohio terminals in Baltimore, and that
the latter would have the long haul on traffic originating
on its terminals at Baltimore and destined to a point on
the Pennsylvania terminals at Pittsburgh. Plainly, that
case is not similar to this. The construction for which
appellants contend is indicated in these cases. First case
in this controversy, 87 I. C. C. 617. Flory Milling Co. v.
C. N. E. Ry. Co., 93 I. C. C. 129. This case, 107 I. C. C.
523. Port of New York Authority v. A. T. & S. F. Ry.
Co., 144 I. C. C. 514. Stickell & Sons v. W. M. Ry. Co.,
146 I. C. C. 609.
Analysis of the decisions in detail is not necessary and
would not be justified. It is enough to say that they have
not been uniform and do not establish any settled interpretation that is applicable here. The construction of
paragraph (4) in this case is free from doubt.
Decree affirmed.
BOTANY WORSTED MILLS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 31.

Submitted April 23, 1928. Argued November 20, 1928.Decided January 2, 1929.

1. No compromise of tax claims is authorized by § 3229 Rev. Stats.
which is not assented to by the Secretary of the Treasury. P. 288.
2. When a statute limits a thing to be done in a particular mode, it
includes the negative of any other mode. P. 289.
3. The taxpayer filed a return of its net income for 1917 under the
Revenue Act of 1916, and paid a tax computed on the basis of this
return. An audit of the taxpayer's books disclosed the necessity
of an additional assessment, and after much correspondence and
numerous conferences with subordinate officials of the Bureau of

BOTANY MILLS v. UNITED STATES.
282

283

Counsel for Parties.

Internal Revenue, an amended return, based upon the figures agreed
upon in the conferences, was filed by the taxpayer and an additional assessment made on the basis of the amended return. The
Secretary of the Treasury did not consent to this settlement and
no opinion of the Solicitor of Internal Revenue was filed in the
office of the Commissioner. The taxpayer paid the additional tax
and then sued to recover part of it back as having been illegally collected. Held:
(1) That the informal settlement did not constitute a binding
agreement. P. 289.
(2) That the taxpayer was not estopped by the settlement
from recovering any portion of the tax to which it might otherwise have been entitled. Id.
4. In a suit to recover taxes alleged to have been illegally collected,
the burden of proving the illegality rests upon the taxpayer. Id.
5. Extraordinary, unusual and extravagant amounts paid by a corporation to its officers in the guise and form of compensation for
their services, but having no substantial relation to the measure
of their services and being utterly disproportioned to their value,
are not in reality payment for services, and cannot be regarded
as "ordinary and necessary expenses" within the meaning of
§ 12a of the Revenue Act of 1916. P. 292.
6. Such amounts do not become part of the "ordinary and necessary expenses" merely because the payments are made in accordance with an agreement between the taxpayer and its officers.
Id.
7. Where the Court of Claims does not make a finding upon the
ultimate question of fact upon which. the rights of the parties
depend, but merely makes findings as to subsidiary circumstantial
facts which bear upon it, such findings will not support a judgment unless the circumstantial facts as found are such that the
ultimate fact follows from them as a necessary inference and may
be held to result as a conclusion of law. P. 290.
63 Ct. Cls. 405, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 276 U. S. 611, to a judgment of the Court
of Claims dismissing a suit to recover taxes alleged to
have been illegally collected.

Mr. Nathan A. Smyth for petitioner.
Solicitor General Mitchell for the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

A brief on behalf of Mr. A. G. Lacy, as amicus curiae,
was filed by special leave of Court on motion of the
Solicitor General.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Botany Worsted Mills, a New Jersey corporation
engaged in the manufacture of woolen and worsted fabrics,
made a return of its net income for the taxable year 1917
under the Revenue Act of 1916 1 and the War Revenue
Act of 1917.2 By § 12(a) of the Revenue Act it was provided that in ascertaining the net income of a corporation
organized in the United States there should be deducted
from its gross income all "the ordinary and necessary
expenses paid within the year in the maintenance and
operation of its business and properties." Under this provision the Mills deducted amounts aggregating $1,565,739.39 paid as compensation to the members of its board
of directors, in addition to salaries of $9,000 each. It
paid an income tax computed in accordance with this return. Thereafter, in 1920, the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue assessed an additional income tax against it. Of
this, $450,994.06 was attributable to his disallowance of
$783,656.06 of the deduction claimed as compensation
paid to the directors, on the ground that the total amount
paid as compensation was unreasonable and the remainder
of the deduction as allowed represented fair and reasonable compensation. The Mills, after paying the additional tax, filed a claim for refund of this $450,994.06.
The claim was disallowed; and the Mills thereafter, in
September 1924, by a petition in the Court of Claims
sought to recover this sum from the United States, with
139 Stat. 756, c. 463.

2 40

Star. 300, c. 63.

BOTANY MILLS v. UNITED STATES.
282

Opinion of the Court.

interest-alleging that the disallowance of part of the
compensation paid the directors was illegal.' After a hearing on the merits the court, upon its findings of fact, dismissed the petition upon the ground that the additional
tax was imposed under an agreement of settlement which
prevented a recovery. 63 C. Cls. 405. And this writ of
certiorari was granted.
The first question presented is whether the Mills is
precluded from recovering the amount claimed by reason
of a settlement.
Sec. 3229 of the Revised Statutes,4 provides that: "The
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the advice and
consent of the Secretary of the Treasury, may compromise
any civil or criminal case arising under the internalrevenue laws instead of commencing suit thereon; and,
with the advice and consent of the said Secretary and the
recommendation of the Attorney-General, he may compromise any such case after a suit thereon has been commenced. Whenever a compromise is made in any case
there shall be placed on file in the office of the Commissioner the opinion of the Solicitor of Internal Revenue, . . .with his reasons therefor, with a statement of
3 Sec. 3226 of the Revised Statutes had been previously amended
by § 1318 of the Revenue Act of 1921, 42 Stat. 227, 314, c. 136, so as to
provide that no suit or proceeding should be maintained in any court
for the recovery of any internal-revenue tax alleged to have been
erroneously or illegally assessed or collected until a claim for refund
or credit had been duly filed with the Commissioner of Internal Revenue; and further amended by § 1014(a) of the Revenue Act of 1924,
43 Stat. 253, 343, c. -234, so as to provide that such suit or proceeding
might be maintained, whether or not such tax had been paid under
protest or duress. And the right of the Mills to maintain this suit,
although the tax had not been paid under protest or duress, is not
questioned by the Government.
4U.

S. C., Tit, 26, § 158,

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

the amount of tax assessed, . . . and the amount actually
paid in accordance with the terms of the compromise." 6
The Government did not claim that there had been a
compromise under this statute, but contended in the
Court of Claims that, irrespective thereof, an agreement of
settlement had been entered into between the Mills and
the Commisioner under which the Mills had accepted the
partial disallowance as to the compensation paid the directors, and had also received concessions as to other
disputed items the benefit of which it still enjoyed, and
was therefore estopped from seeking a recovery.
As to this matter the findings of fact show that after the
Mills had paid the amount of the tax shown by its original return, an investigation of its books disclosed to the
Commissioner the necessity of making an additional
assessment, to be determined by the settlement of questions relating to the compensation (or, as it was termed,
bonus) paid to the directors, depreciation charged off on
its books, and reserves charged to expenses. After much
correspondence and numerous conferences extending over
several months between the attorney and assistant treasurer of the Mills and the chief of the special audit section
of the Bureau of Internal Revenue and others of his official associates, a compromise was agreed to as to all the
differences, by which the amounts to be allowed as reasonable compensation to the directors and as depreciation
were agreed upon, and the claim as to reserve was allowed. Thereupon the Mills prepared and filed an
amended return based upon the figures agreed upon in the
conferences, with documentary evidence which it had
. Since the date of the settlement here involved §§ 1312 and 1313
of the Revenue Act of 1921, § 1006 of the Revenue Act of 1924, and
§ 1106(b) of the Revenue Act of 1926 have dealt specifically with
agreements in writing made by a taxpayer and the Commissioner,
with the approval of the Secretary, that the previous determination
and assessment of a tax shall be final and conclusive.

BOTANY MILLS v. UNITED STATES.
282

Opinion of the Court.

agreed to furnish; and the additional assessment was made
in accordance with this return.'
The court, in sustaining the Government's contention,
said: "With the payment of the tax under the circumstances surrounding this case the agreement, which is mentioned in the record as a 'gentleman's agreement,' became
in legal effect an executed contract of settlement "; and
that, as the Mills was seeking to recover on account of the
particular item which it regarded as unfavorable to its
interests, and at the same time hold to the advantage derived from the settlement of other items in dispute involved in the same general settlement, it should not be
allowed a recovery.
The Mills contends that the Commissioner had not been
given, at the time in question, any authority, either in
express terms or by implication, to compromise tax cases
except as provided in § 3229; that this statute in granting such authority under specific limitations as to the
method to be pursued, negatived his authority to effect a
valid and binding agreement in any other way; that as
the Government could not have been estopped by the
unauthorized transactions of its officials, the Mills likewise could not be estopped thereby; and further, that the
findings are insufficient to establish an estoppel.
The Government does not here challenge any of these
contentions. In the brief for the United States filed in
this Court the Solicitor General states that the question
whether such an informal adjustment of taxes as was
made in this case is binding on the taxpayer, is submitted
for decision in deference to the opinion of the Court of
Claims and the importance of the question-but no argument is made in support of the Government's previous
contention that the Mills was estopped from questioning
6 The findings indicate inferentially that some tax claims of the
Mills for two other years were also included in the settlement; but
the precise facts do not appear.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928..
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

the settlement. And, on the contrary, it is stated that"Before and since the date of the alleged settlement in
this case Congress has evidently proceeded on the theory
that no adjustment of a tax controversy between representatives of the Bureau of Internal Revenue and a taxpayer is binding unless made with the formalities and with
the approval of the officials prescribed by statute. The
authority of officers of the United States to compromise
claims on behalf of or against the United States is strictly
limited. . . The statutes which authorize conclusive
agreements and settlements to be made in particular ways
and with the approval of designated officers raise the
inference that adjustments or settlements made in other
ways are not binding." And further, that "No ground
for the United States to claim estoppel is disclosed in the
findings."
Independently of these concessions, we are of the opinion that the informal settlement made in this case did not
constitute a binding agreement. Sec. 3229 authorizes the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue to compromise tax
claims before suit, with the advice and consent of the Secretary of the Treasury, and requires that an opinion of the
Solicitor of Internal Revenue setting forth the compromise be filed in the Commissioner's office. Here the attempted settlement was made by subordinate officials in
the Bureau of Internal Revenue. And although it may
have been ratified by the Commissioner in making the
additional assessment based thereon, it does not appear
that it was assented to by the Secretary, or that the opinion of the Solicitor was filed in the Commissioner's office.
We think that Congress intended by the statute to
prescribe the exclusive method by which tax cases could
be compromised, requiring therefor the concurrence of the
Commissioner and the Secretary, and prescribing the
formality with which, as a matter of public concern, it
should be attested in the files of the Commissioner's office;

BOTANY MILLS v. UNITED STATES.
282

289

Opinion of the Court.

and did not intend to intrust the final settlement of such
matters to the informal action of subordinate officials in
the Bureau. When a statute limits a thing to be done
in a particular mode, it includes the negative of any other
mode. Raleigh, etc. R. R. Co. v. Reid, 13 Wall. 269, 270;
Scott v. Ford, 52 Ore. 2818, 296.
It is plain that no compromise is authorized by this
statute which is not assented to by the Secretary of the
Treasury. Leach v. Nichols (C. C: A.) 23 F. (2d) 275,
277. For this reason, if for no other, the informal agreement made in this case did not constitute a settlement
which in itself was binding upon the Government or the
Mills. And, without determining whether such an agreement, though not binding in itself, may when executed
become, under some circumstances, binding on the parties
by estoppel, it suffices to say that here the findings disclose no adequate ground for any claim of estoppel by the
United States.
We therefore conclude that the Mills was not precluded
by the settlement from recovering any portion of the tax
to which it may otherwise have been entitled.
This brings us to the question whether on the findings
of fact the Mills is entitled to recover the portion of the
additional tax attributable to the disallowance of $783,656.06 of the amount paid to the directors which it had
claimed as a deduction.'
Under § 12 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1916 the Mills was
not entitled to this deduction unless the amount paid
constituted a part of its "ordinary and necessary expenses" in the maintenance and operation of its business
and properties. And in this suit the burden of establish7 This is claimed in the brief filed for the Mills; and in the oral
argument its counsel specifically stated that the Mills relied on the
sufficiency of the findings and made no request that the case be
remanded to the Court of Claims for additional findings, as the
Solicitor General had suggested.
272285-29-19

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

ing that fact rested upon it, in order to show that it was
entitled to the deduction which the Commissioner had
disallowed, and that the additional tax was to that extent
illegally assessed. The Court of Claims, however, made
no finding that the amount disallowed by the Commissioner constituted a part of the ordinary and necessary
expenses of the Mills. The findings are silent as to this
ultimate fact-essential to a recovery by the Mills-and
only show certain circfimstantial facts relating to the payment made to the board of directors.
Where the Court of Claims does not make a finding
upon the ultimate question of fact upon which the rights
of the parties depend, but merely makes findings as to
subsidiary circumstantial facts which bear upon it, such
findings will not support a judgment unless the circumstantial facts as found are such that the ultimate fact follows from them as a necessary inference and may be held
to result as a conclusion of law. See United States v.
Pugh, 99 U. S. 265, 269; Winton v. Amos, 255 U. S. 373,
395.
The findings show that for many years it has been the
practice of many corporations engaged in the woolen
manufacturing business to base the compensation of the
directors and executive officers upon a percentage of
profits. Upon the organization of the Mills in 1890 the
stockholders adopted a by-law providing that at the close
of the business year the net profits should be distributed
by paying a dividend of 6-per cent to stockholders and
applying the balance remaining as follows: (a) placing
5 per cent in a reserve fund; (b) paying 25 per cent " as
a bonus to the board of directors "; and (c) paying 70
per cent as additional dividend to the stockholders. The
stockholders amended this by-law in 1903 by increasing
the bonus of the board of directors to 40 per cent; in 1905,
by providing, instead of a "bonus," that "compensation "

BOTANY MILLS v. UNITED STATES.
282

Opinion of the Court.

equal to 40 per cent should be "paid to the board of directors for their services "; and in 1908, by reducing such
compensation to 32 per cent [that is, 30.08 per cent of the
net profits.] This by-law remained in force until after
the taxable year 1917; and during the entire period " compensation " was paid to the directors in accordance therewith. From the outset the determination of the total
amount of profits and of the aggregate amount payable
to the board of directors was made by the board itself;
and it likewise determined the basis of the apportionment
among the several directors of the aggregate amount payable to the board as a whole. No contract was made with
any director as to what his compensation should be other
than such as was implied from his election and service
as a member of the board in accordance with the by-law
and the customary practices of the company, which each
knew. At all times each director also held a position as
an executive officer or manager of a department of the
Mills.
The gross assets of the Mills increased from $1,114,149.63 in 1890 to $28,893,777.12 in 1917; and its net assets,
including reserves, from $37,136.35 to $10,999,862.48. Its
net income increased from $784,334.44 in 1910 to $7,953,512.80 in 1917; and the amount paid the directors in pursuance of the by-law increased, with some fluctuations,
from $268,444.19 in 1910, to $400,935.18 in 1915, $693,617.16 in 1916, and $1,565,739.39 in 1917.8 In 1917 there
were ten members of the board, so that if the total amount
had been apportioned ratably, each would have received
$156,573.93. And in that year each member of the board,
in addition to the part of the aggregate in fact apportioned
to him individually, also received a salary of $9,000.
8 The figures for some other years are also given in tabulated statements included in the findings.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S,

The findings do not show the nature or extent of the
services rendered by the board of directors or its individual
members, either as directors, executive officers or department managers-the amounts apportioned and paid to
each director-the basis of apportionment, whether the
nature and extent of their individual services, the amount
of their stockholdings, or otherwise-the value of their
services-or the reasonableness of the purported compensation.
We do not find it necesary to determine here whether
the amounts paid by-a corporation to its officers as compensation for their services cannot be allowed as" ordinary
and necessary expenses" within the meaning of § 12 (a),
merely because, and to the extent that, as compensation,
they are unreasonable in amount.' However this may be,
it is clear that extraordinary, unusual and extravagant
amounts paid by a corporation to its officers in the guise
and form of compensation for their services, but having no
substantial relation to the measure of their services and
being utterly disproportioned to their value, are not in
reality payment for services, and cannot be regarded as
"ordinary and necessary expenses" within the meaning of
the section; and that such amounts do not become part of
the " ordinary and necessary expenses" merely because the
payments are made in accordance with an agreement between the corporation and its officers. Even if binding
upon the parties, such an agreement does not change the
character of the purported compensation or constitute it,
as against the Government, an ordinary and necessary
expense. Compare 20 Treas. Dec., Int. Rev., 330; Jacobs
& Davies v. Anderson (C. C. A.), 228 Fed. 505, 506;
'Later, by § 214(a) of the Revenue Act of 1918, 40 Stat. 1057,
c. 18, it was specifically provided that the "ordinary and necessary
expenses" should include " a reasonable allowance for salaries or other
compensation for personal services actually rendered."

BOTANY MILLS v. UNITED STATES.
282

Opinion of the Court.

United States v. PhiladelphiaKnitting Mills Co. (C. C.
A.), 273 Fed. 657, 658; and Becker Bros. v. United States
(C. C. A.), 7 F. (2d) 3, 6.
In the light of this principle it is clear that the findings
do not show, as a matter of necessary inference resulting
as a conclusion of law, that the amount paid the directors
in excess of the $782,083.33 allowed by the Commissioner,"' constituted part of the drdinary and necessary
expenses of the Mills. On the contrary, as this amount
o greatly exceeded the amounts which, as a matter of
common knowledge, are usually paid to directors for their
attendance at meetings of the board and the discharge of
their customary duties, and was much greater than the
amounts that had been paid in prior years," and as there
is no showing as to the amounts paid the individual directors, in addition to the salaries of $9,000 which each received-presumably for his services as an executive officer or department manager-or as to the nature, extent
or value of their services, the findings raise a strong inference that the unusual and extraordinary amount paid to
the directors was not in fact compensation for their
services, but merely a distribution of a fixed percentage
of the net profits that had no relation to the services
rendered.
Therefore, as the Mills has not sustained the burden of
showing that the amount disallowed by the Commissioner
wasin fact part of its ordinary and necessary expenses, the
judgment must, for this reason, be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

agrees with the result.

10 The amount allowed, it may be noted, was, in itself, $481,934.02

more than the average of the amounts that had been paid in the seven
years immediately preceding, and $88,466.17 more than the greatest
amount that had been paid in any one year.
1 See note 10, supra.

