OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Statement of the Case.

278 U. S.

trial. It seeks not only return of the papers, but the suppression of all evidence obtained therefrom. And such
suppression of evidence appears to be its main, if not its
only purpose. The appeal was properly dismissed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
Affirmed.

LAWRENCE

ST. LOUIS-SAN FRANCISCO
RAILWAY COMPANY.

ET AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 99. Argued December 3, 1928.-Decided January 2, 1929.
1. An interlocutory decree enjoining a state commission from carrying out an order restraining a railway company from removing
shops and division point from one place to another in the State,
leaves the company free to proceed with the removal pending
appeal, if the injunction was not suspended by a supersedeas bond.
P. 232.
2. Where such an interlocutory injunction was reversed on appeal
because improvidently granted, but the shops, etc., had been
removed meanwhile, and it seemed probable after the remand of
the case that the complainant would be entitled to a permanent
injunction, postponement of the question of restitution until final
hearing was within the discretion of the District Court. P. 233.
3. An order of a state commission preventing a railway company
from removing its shops and division point to another place in the
State, the effect of which will clearly impair interstate passenger

and freight service, is invalid under the commerce clause. P. 234.
30 F. (2d) 458, affirmed.

from a decree of the District Court of three
judges, permanently enjoining the members of the
Corporation Commission of the State of Oklahoma
from taking proceedings to prevent the Railway Company
from removing its shops and division point. See s. c. 274
APPEAL

U. S. 588.

LAWRENCE v. ST. L.-S. F. RY.
228

Argument for Appellants.

Mr. C. B. Ames, with whom Messrs. Edwin Dabney,
Attorney General of Oklahoma, and T. L. Blakemore
were on the brief, for appellants.
The application made by the Railway Company to
the Corporation Commission did not comply with its duty
or with the requirements of the statute.
The Act does not conflict with the commerce clause
of the Constitution. Laws passed by a State in the exercise of its police powers are valid, even though they
indirectly affect interstate commerce.
Imposing the burden of proof on the Railway Company is a valid provision.
It was the duty of the District Court to require the
Railway Company to return its shops and division point
to Sapulpa.
On reversal of a judgment, restitution will be ordered.
Northwestern Fuel Co. v. Brock, 139 U. S. 216; St. LouisSouthwestern Ry. Co. v. Consolidated Fuel Co., 260 Fed.
638; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Southern Trust Co.,
279 Fed. 801; Wangelin v. Goe, 50 Ill. 459; Lake Shore,
etc., Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 134 Ill. 603; Herrington v. Herrington, 11 Ill. App. 121; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. v.
Seaboard Air Line Ry., 88 S. C. 464; Morris, v. Gray,
37 Okla. 695; Vanzandt v. Argentine Mining Co., 48 Fed.
770; Silver Peak Mines v. Hanchett, 93 Fed. 76; Twentyone Mining Co. v. Original Sixteen to One Mine, 240 Fed.
106; Haight v. Lucia, 36 Wis. 355; Mowrer v. State, 107
Ind. 539; People v. District Court, 29 Colo. 182; Coker v.
Richey, 108 Ore. 479.
The motion to require the Railway Company to restore the status quo should have been heard by the District Judge; and it was error for three judges to sit.
Mr. C. B. Stuart, with whom Messrs. E. T. Miller,
M, K. Cruce, and Ben Franklin were on the brief, for
appellee.

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case was before us in Lawrence v. St. Louis-San
Francisco Ry. Co., 274 U. S. 588. There, we reversed the
decree granting an interlocutory injunction. Now the
case is here on appeal from the final decree, which granted
a permanent injunction. This decree was entered upon
motion to dismiss the bill and supplemental bill. For the
main facts reference is made to our earlier opinion.
The supplemental bill sets forth the occurrences since entry of the interlocutory decree. It is largely with these
that we are now concerned.
The petition for appeal from the interlocutory decree
prayed "that the proper order touching security be made
without superseding the decree." The appeal was allowed upon the filing of the usual bond for costs. The
District Court, three judges sitting, had offered to the
appellants the opportunity of suspending the interlocutory decree by giving a supersedeas bond. The offer was
declined. Then the decree was made effective upon the
Railway's filing a bond in the sum of $50,000. Immediately thereafter, the Railway commenced removal of its
shops and division point from Sapulpa to West Tulsa.
Before the interlocutory decree was reversed by us the
removal had been completed; and the new shops and division point had been put into complete operation at
West Tulsa. Promptly after our decision, the appellants'
applied to the District Court for an order requiring that
forthwith, and before any further proceeding be taken in
the cause, the Railway restore the conditions with respect
to its shops and division point existing prior to the issue
of the interlocutory injunction; and specifically "that it
be required to re-build its trackage at Sapulpa as such
trackage then existed; to return to Sapulpa all machindry
and employees which have been removed by reason of said

LAWRENCE v. ST. L.-S. F. RY.
228

Opinion of the Court.

interlocutory injunction; to restore the runs of its trains
and particularly its freight trains so that Sapulpa will be
the division point for said runs as it was before the issuance of said interlocutory injunction."
The District Court denied the motion. Instead, it issued an order that the Railway Company "as a preliminary step to further hearing of this cause" apply to the
Corporation Commission of the State to dissolve the restraining orders theretofore made by it, restraining removal
of the shops and division point, and to ratify the removal
which had -been effected. The Railway made application
as directed; and the Commission set it for hearing. Then
these appellants objected to any consideration of the application by the Commission, unless and until the Railway
should have returned its shops and division point to Sapulpa. Their contention was that in making the removal, although under the protection of the interlocutory
injunction, the Railway acted in contempt of the Commission's earlier order restraining such action; and that,
for this reason, it should not be heard by the Commission
until it had purged itself of the contempt. The Commission sustained the objection. Thereupon, the Railway filed its supplemental bill setting forth these and
other facts; and the case went to final hearing in the
District Court.
The appellants contend that it was error to grant the
permanent injunction, because the suit was prematurely
brought. They argue that the statute requiring application to the Commission before removal of the shops was
a valid exercise of the police power; that this Court reversed the interlocutory decree because the Railway Company had omitted to make such application before seeking relief in the federal court; that the removal of the
shops, although under the protection of the interlocutory
injunction, was an abuse of the process of the court; that
this action constituted a contempt of the Commission;

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S,"

and that, since the Railway did not offer to purge itself of
th contempt by restoring the status quo, and the Commission has refused to condone it, the District Court erred
in granting the relief prayed.
The contention is unsound. The purpose of the restraining order, issued upon the filing of the bill, had been
to maintain the status quo. It, therefore, contained a
clause ordering "that the plaintiff in this case take no
action toward removing its shops, division point, or changing the runs of its trains, until further order of this Court."
This clause was omitted from the interlocutory decree.
The purpose of the injunction thereby granted was not,
as in Vanzandt v. Argentine Mining Co., 48 Fed. 770;
Silver Peak Mines v. Hanchett, 93 Fed. 76; and Twentyone Mining Co. v. Original Sixteen to One Mine, 240 Fed.
106, to maintain the status quo, but to prevent interference with the desired change. "The interlocutory decree," as we have said, " set the Railway free to remove the
shops before the case could be heard on final hearing."
(274 U. S. 588, 594.) The District Court had, when it
issued the injunction, jurisdiction of the parties and of
the subject matter; and it has never relinquished its jutisdiction. It is true that this Court has held that the interlocutory decree was improvidently granted. But it did
not declare that the decree was void. (274 U. S. 588,
591-592.) Compare Arkansas Comm'n v. Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific R. R. Co., 274 U. S. 597, 598. The interlocutory injunction, until dissolved by our decision, was
in full force and effect. The appellants refused to assume
the risk attendant upon suspending the decree by means
of a supersedeas bond. The appeal did not operate as a
supersedeas. Hovey v. McDonald, 109 U. S. 150, 161;
Leonard v. Ozark Land Co., 115 U. S. 465. Compare Virginian Ry. v. United States, 272 U. S. 658, 668-669.
Thus, the interlocutory decree relieved the Railway
from any duty to obey the restraining order of the Coin-

LAWRENCE v. ST. L.-S. F. RY.
228

mission.

Opinion of the Court.

Because such was its effect, the lower court re-

quired the Railway to furnish the $50,000 bond. By
availing itself of the liberty given to remove the shops
and division point, the Railway assumed the risk of being
required to restore them if it should be held that the interlocutory injunction was improvidently granted, see Bank
of United States v. Bank of Washington, 6 Pet. 8, 17;
Arkadelphia Co. v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 249
U. S. 134, 145-146; and also the risk of having to compensate the appellants, to the extent of $50,000, for any
damages suffered by reason of the removal. But it was
clear that, upon final hearing, the Railway might prove
that it was entitled to a permanent injunction; and the District Court was not obliged to order restitution meanwhile.
If it had not, when entering the interlocutory decree, required that bond be given, no damages could have been
recovered on the dissolution of the injunction. Russell v.
Farley, 105 U. S. 433, 437; Minneapolis, St. Paul & Sault
Ste. Marie Ry. Co. v. Washburn Lignite Coal Co., 254
U. S. 370, 374. Although it required the bond, and this
Court held that the interlocutory injunction had been
improvidently issued, the District Court could, in its discretion, refuse to assess the damages until it should, after
the final hearing, have determined whether the plaintiff
was entitled to a permanent injunction. See Redlich Mfg.
Co. v. John H. Rice & Co., 203 Fed. 722. It might then
refuse to allow recovery of any damages, even if the permanent injunction should be denied. See Russell v. Farley, 105 U. S. 433, 441-2.
Moreover, the reasons for not requiring restitution before final hearing were persuasive. It appears that there
was nothing in the new location which could in any wise
affect injuriously the health of the Railway's employees.
The location of the shops at West Tulsa and the vicinity
in which employees may live are sanitary. The removal
to West Tulsa had cost $150,000. It had resulted in a

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

monthly saving of at least $33,'500. It had effected a vast
improvement of the interstate and other service. To restore the shops and division point to Sapulpa and make
there the improvements essential to good service would
require an outlay of $3,000,000, besides the expenditure
of $300,000 for the shops; and it would entail in addition
the operating expenses then being saved. Even with such
large expenditures, restoration of the shops and division
point to Sapulpa would inevitably impair interstate and
other passenger and freight service. On these facts,
which were established by affidavits filed in opposition to
the motion to compel restitution, it must have seemed to
the District Court at least probable that upon final hearing a permanent injunction would issue; and that to order
restitution meanwhile would be, not merely an idle act,
compare Goltra v. Weecs, 271 U. S. 536, 549, but one imposing unnecessary hardship on the Railway and the
public.
We have no occasion to pass upon the constitutionality
of the state statute. The facts just stated were later
set forth in the supplemental bill of complaint and by submission on motion to dismiss the bill and supplemental
bill were admitted on the final hearing. Assuming the
statute to be valid, an order of the Commission denying
leave to remove would, on these facts, clearly have violated the commerce clause. Compare McNeill v. Southern Railway Co., 202 U. S. 543, 561. The Commission's
refusal to hear the application was tantamount .to such
an order. The Railway was not in contempt. The terms
of the restraining order had been superseded by the interlocutory injunction. To refuse to hear the application,
which the District Court had directed the Railway to
make, was an attempt to inflict punishment for an innocent act.
Affirmed.

