OCTOBER TERM, 1928.

92

Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

HERKNESS v. IRION, COMMISSIONER OF CON-

SERVATION,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 3.

Argued October 8, 1928.-Decided November 19, 1928.

1. A bill which challenges the validity, under the Federal Constitution, of an order of a state administrative board purporting to be
authorized by a state statute, and seeks to enjoin its enforcement,
is within the jurisdiction of the District Court under Jud. Code,
§ 266 where application for an interlocutory injunction is pressed
to hearing; and an appeal from a decree dismissing the bill after
the interlocutory injunction has been denied, may be taken directly
to this Court. P. 93.
2. Acts 91, of 1922, and 252, of 1924, of Louisiana, do not empower
the Commissioner of Conservation to refuse a permit to manufacture carbon black from natural gas to a person able and willing to
comply with the statutory requirements. P. 94.
11 F. (2d) 386, reversed.
APPEAL from a final decree of the District Court, dismissing a bill for an injunction. The court, composed of
three judges under Jud. Code § 266, had previously denied

an application for a preliminary injunction.
Mr. John W. Davis, with 'whom Messrs. Maurice B.
Saul, Joseph N. Ewing, Allen S. Olmsted, 2d, and Esmond

Phelps were on the brief, for appellant.

Messrs. Percy Saint, Attorney General of Louisiana,
W. H. Thompson, Assistant Attorney General, and Ed-

ward Rightor submitted for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought in a federal court for Louisiana
by Herkness, an owner of natural gas wells, to enjoin the

HERKNESS v. IRION.
92

Opinion of the Court.

Commissioner of Conservation and the Attorney General
of that State from interfering with the erection, on plaintiff's land, and the operation, of a factory for the manufacture of carbon black from natural gas. The bill alleges
that a number of other persons are now engaged in that
business and have been for many years with the sanction
of the Department of Conservation; that it had been its
practice to require persons about to engage in such manufacture to apply for a permit; that one of its rules. declares unlawful the erection of such a fhctory without
having first obtained one; that plaintiff was refused a permit; that the sole ground of refusal was the policy recently
announced by the Commissioner not to issue a permit
for the erection of any new carbon black plants and to
gradually reduce the amount of gas which holders of
permits to operate existing plants can utilize for that purpose; and that his policy has become a fixed rule of administration. The bill charges that the order refusing
to issue a permit to the plaintiff is void, because in excess
of the powers conferred by the statutes or which could
be conferred under the constitution of the State; and also
because it violates the due process clause and the equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. A restraining order and an interlocutory injunction, as well
as a permanent injunction, were sought. There were adequate allegations of threatened irreparable injury.
The District Judge issued a restraining order. The
hearing upon the application for an interlocutory injunction was had before three judges, under § 266 of the Judicial Code as amended; and the case was later submitted
by agreement as upon final hearing. The court denied the
injunction and dismissed the bill, 11 F. (2d) 386; but
later granted a restraining order pending the appeal. As
the bill challenged the validity under the Federal Constitution of an order of an administrative board of the State,

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

the District Court had jurisdiction under § 266, Oklahoma
Gas Co. v. Russell, 261 U. S. 290, and this Court has jurisdiction on direct appeal. We have no occasion to consider any of the constitutional questions presented. For,
in our opinion, the statutes do not purport to confer upon
the Commissioner power to refuse a permit to a person
able and willing to comply with the requirements prescribed by .the statute. See Greene v. Louisville & Interurban Railroad Co., 244 U. S. 499, 508; Dawson v. Kentucky DistilleriesCo., 255 U. S. 288, 295.
The conservation of natural resources has been the subject of much legislation in Louisiana.1 The possible
wastefulness of the use of natural gas in the manufacture
of carbon black was recognized; and the Legislature dealt
fully with this use by Act 252 of 1924, which, in effect,
embodies the provisions of Act 91 of 1922. State v. Thrift
Oil & Gas Co., 162 La. 165, 193. No law declares such use
necessarily wasteful. Nor has the State purported to
confer upon the Commissioner power to refuse a permit
to new concerns and to restrict the use to the persons
already engaged in the manufacture of carbon black. On
the contrary, the use is expressly sanctioned in § 1 of
Act 91 of 1922, which declares, "that natural gas may
be used in the manufacture of carbon black under the
conditions as fixed and imposed by the provisions of" that
Act. And it is to those conditions and the means of
ensuring their observance that the other provisions of
the Act relate. Section 2 thereof directs the Commissioner to determine "what percentage of consumption of
natural gas produced by each gas well may be used in
the manufacture of carbon black . . ., which percentage
shall not be less than fifteen per cent. and not more
1Act 71 of 1906; Act 144 of 1908; Acts 172, 190, 196 and 283 of
1910; Act 127 of 1912; Acts 268 and 270 of 1918; Act 250 of 1920.

HERKNESS v. IRION.
92

Opinion of the Court.

than twenty per cent. of the potential capacity of such
well. . . ." By § 3 he is authorized to reduce the consumption of natural gas used in the manufacture of carbon black below that minimum "after promulgation for
sixty days of an order to that effect, whenever [and only
whenever] it is actually necessary to do so in obtaining an
adequate supply of natural gas for domestic heating and
lighting purposes in the State of Louisiana, and for manufacturing plants, industries and enterprises located and
operated within the State of Louisiana, other than those
engaged in the manufacture of carbon black. . . ." Other
sections of the 1922 Act define the conditions under which
natural gas can be burned into carbon black. There is not
even a contention that a condition existed which would
have authorized the issue of an order reducing the minimum percentage of use, pursuant to § 3 of Act 91 of 1922.
Many detailed provisions concerning permits for the
building of plants to burn natural gas into carbon black
were added by Act 252 of 1924. But the additional provisions, and the specific powers there conferred upon the
Commissioner, deal only with regulation of the use. The
legislation contemplates, not restriction of the use to
existing plants, but the further issue of permits to all who
will "completely abide by and comply with all the provisions of this Act, and with all the rules and regulations
of the Commissioner of Conservation established under
the provisions of the Act." § 5. And it expressly provides that "The authority given the Commissioner of
Conservation by this Act shall in no sense be understood
to supersede or nullify any of the provisions of this Act,
or any other act of this State, but shall be cumulative
and in aid thereof." § 11.
As it is clear that the refusal of the Commissioner was
not justified by any statutory provision, we have no occasion to consider the limitations imposed by the constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Statement of the Case.

278 U. S.

tion of the State upon discriminatory action 2 and upon
delegation of legislative power to an executive department.'
Reversed.
HUNT, GOVERNOR OF ARIZONA, ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF ARIZONA.
No. 44.

Argued October 23, 1928.-Decided November 19, 1928.

1. When the numbers of wild deer on a national forest and game
preserve have increased to such excess that by over-browsing upon
and killing young trees, bushes and forage plants they cause great
injury to the land, it is within the power of the United States to
cause their numbers to be reduced by killing and their carcasses

to be shipped outside the limits of such reserves. P. 100.
2. This power springs from the federal ownership of the lands
affected, and is independent of the game laws of the State in
which they are situate. Id.
3. A direction for such killing and shipment, given by the Secretary
of Agriculture, was within the authority conferred upon him by
Act of Congress. Id.
4. Carcasses and parts of the deer so killed, should be marked before
being taken from the reserves, to show that the dleer were killed
there under authority of the Secretary of Agriculture. P. 101.
19 F. (2d) 634, modified and affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of permanent injunction granted
by the District Court after a final hearing by three judges
in a suit brought by the United States. The decree en2 See State of Louisiana v. Mahner, 43 La. Ann. 496; Town of
Crowley v. West, 52 La. Ann. 526, 533; Town of Mandeville v. Band,
111 La. 806; State ex rel. Galle v. New Orleans, 113 La. 371; New
Orleans v. Palnisano, 146 La. 518; State ex rel. Dickson v. Harrison,
161 La. 218.
3 See State v. Billot, 154 La. 402; State v. Thrift Oil & Gas Co.,
162 La. 165.

