OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Counsel for Parties.

UNITED STATES v. CARVER

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 78.

Argued November 28, 1928.-Decided January 2, 1929.

Respondents' vessel, while at Melbourne, Australia, during the war,
and under charter to pick up and transport a cargo of ore from New
Caledonia, was denied olearance by Australian authorities at the
request of the United States Shipping Board pending the Board's
decision whether the vessel should be ordered to abandon the
charter and return to the United States with a cargo of wheat. In
this situation, the respondents accepted a charter offered by the
United States Food Administration Grain Corporation to carry
wheat from Melbourne to New York, having concluded, after
negotiations with the Food Administration, that they would better
sign the charter rather than have the United States Government
take over the vessel. The freight received under the wheat charter
was less than would have been received under the ore charter, and
respondents sued for the difference in the Court of Claims. Held:
1. Clause (b) of the Act of June 15, 1917, gave no authority
to cancel the contract for the carriage of ore. P. 298.
2. The Act did not provide for compensation to the ship-owners
for the cancellation of such a contract. Id.
3. The ship-owners, by their acts, and not the Shipping Board,
made it impossible to perform the ore charter. P. 299.
4. There was no requisition or taking of the vessel. Id.
5. The Shipping Board did not requisition the ore charter under
clause (e) of the Act. Id.
64 Ct. Cls. 1, reversed.
0

CERTIORARI, 277 U. S. 578, to a judgment of the Court
of Claims allowing a recovery of damages against the
United States.

Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Assistant Attorney General Galloway and Mr. J. Frank Staley were on
the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Frank E. Scott for respondents.

UNITED STATES v. CARVER.
294
MR.

Opinion of the Court.

JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Carver and others, citizens of the United States, who
were at the times hereinafter mentioned, the owners of
the vessel Betsy Ross, in 1923 brought this suit against the
United States in the Court of Claims. Their petitionwhich was based on the Emergency Shipping Fund section of the Act of June 15, 1917, 40 Stat. 182, c. 29alleged that in 1918 the United States Shipping Board, on
behalf of the Government, made use of, requisitioned or
took over the vessel from their service and business, for
the use of the United States Grain Corporation in the
transportation of wheat; and that "by reason of being deprived of the use of said ship " they were entitled to
compensation. The court, upon its findings of fact,
awarded them judgment. 64 C. Cls. 1.
The Act of 1917 provided: " The President is hereby
authorized and empowered within the limits of the
amounts herein authorized-(a) To place an order with
any person for such ships or material as the necessities of
the Government, to be determined by the President, may
require during the period of the war and which are of the
nature, kind and quantity usually produced or capable of
being produced by such person. (b) To modify, suspend,
cancel, or requisition any existing or future contract for
the building, production, or purchase of ships or material.
(e) To purchase, requisition, or take over the title
to, or the possession of, for use or operation by the United
States any ship now constructed or in the process of construction or hereafter constructed, or any part thereof, or
charter of such ship. Compliance with all orders issued
hereunder shall be obligatory on any person to whom such
order is given, and such order shall take precedence over
all other orders and contracts placed with such person.

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U.S.

. . . Whenever the United States shall cancel, modify,
suspend or requisition any contract, make use of, assume,
occupy, requisition, acquire or take over any plant or part
thereof, or any ship, charter, or material, in accordance
with the provisions hereof, it shall make just compensation therefor, to be determined by the President ...
The President may exercise the power and authority
hereby vested' in him . . through such agency or
agencies as he shall determine from time to time ...
All ships constructed, purchased, or requisitioned under
authority herein . . .shall be managed, operated, and
disposed of as the President may direct."
By Executive Order of July 11, 1917, No. 2664, the
President, by virtue of the authority vested in him by
this Act, directed, among other things, " that the United
States Shipping Board shall have and exercise all power
and authority vested in me in . . . said act, in so far as
applicable to and in furtherance of the taking over of
title or possession, by purchase or requisition, of constructed vessels, or parts thereof, or charters therein; and
the operation, management, and disposition of such vessels. . . . The powers herein delegated to the United
States Shipping Board may, in the discretion of said
Board, be exercised directly by the said Board or by it
through the United States Shipping Board Emergency
Fleet Corporation .
The findings show that in August, 1917, the respondents entered, simultaneously, into two separate charter
parties with different companies: one providing for the
transportation of lumber from British Columbia to Melbourne, Australia; and the other providing that the vessel
on her return voyage should transport a cargo of chrome
ore from New Caledonia to New York or Baltimore, at
a stipulated rate which would yield $177,000. This return charter was approved by the United States Shipping
Board. The vessel proceeded on her outward voyage, ar-

UNITED STATES v. CARVER.
294

Opinion cf the Court.

rived in Melbourne on March 9, 1918, discharged the
cargo of lumber, and was ready to sail for New Caledonia
on April 10. Meanwhile, on or about April 5, certain
officials of the United States Shipping Board and War
Industries Board and of the British and Australian Governments, had entered upon the discussion of requiring or
requesting American-owned vessels, including the Betsy
Ross, to return to an American port with cargoes of
wheat; but owing to differences of opinion the discussion
was continued until May 9. On April 5, the master of
the vessel applied to the authorities at Melbourne for
clearance papers; but they declined to grant clearance, advising the respondents' agent at Melbourfie that this action was taken at the request of the United States
Shipping Board, and on April 17 notified the respondents'
agent that a cable had been received from the Secretary
of State stating that the Shipping Board considered the
vessel suitable for wheat and requested that she load
wheat and not chrome ore. The respondents made various efforts to have the vessel cleared in order that she
might carry out her chrome ore charter, but action on
their requests was delayed until May 9, "pending a decision being reached by the United States Shipping Board
that the vessel would be ordered to abandon her chromeore charter and return to the United States with a cargo
of wheat. . . . Shortly after [the respondents] were so
notified by said Australian officials," the United States
Food Administration Grain Corporation, at its office in
New York, submitted to the managing owner of the vessel a charter party for the transportation of a cargo of
wheat from Melbourne to New York, at a stipulated rate.
The respondents, as the result of their negotiation with
the Food Administration " concluded that rather than
have the United States Government take over" the vessel
they "had better sign said wheat charter "; and they did
this on May 15. On her return voyage with the cargo

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

of wheat the vessel arrived in New York about the time
of the armistice, and the respondents were paid by the
Food Administration $63,784, at the rate provided in the
charter. The respondents thereupon presented to the
Shipping Board their claim for an award of compensation,1 which was disallowed in 1920. Thereafter the respondents brought this suit.
In its opinion the Court of Claims said that the United
States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation 2
had required the respondents to take on a cargo of wheat
for the return voyage to the United States, and by this
act had cancelled the contract which the respondents had
for transporting the cargo of chrome ore, and that under
the Act of 1917 the Government was required to pay them
just compensation for the loss which they incurred by
such cancellation. And, having found that the just compensation for the cancellation of the chrome ore contract
was $113,216, with interest from May 9, 1918, the respondents were given judgment for that amount.
In our opinion the findings of fact do not sustain the
judgment. Taking up the several contentions here made
by the respondents under clauses (a), (b) and' (e) of the
Act of 1917, we reach the following conclusions:
1. The Shipping Board had no authority under clause
(b) of the Act and the power delegated to it by the President to cancel the respondents' contract for the shipment
of chrome ore. While this clause authorized the President
to cancel contracts "for the building, production or purchase of ships or material," it gave no authority to cancel
a contract for the carriage of freight. And the Act did
not provide for compensation to the ship owners for the
cancellation of such a contract. Furthermore, the find1 This

was in accordance with a requirement of the Act of 1917.
No reference whatever had been made to the Fleet Corporation
in the findings of fact.
2

UNITED STATES v. CARVER.
294

Opinion of the Court.

ings do not show that either the Shipping Board (or the
Emergency Fleet Corporation) in fact cancelled this contract. The most that appears-construing the findings
most favorably to the respondents-is that they were notified by the Australian officials that the Shipping Board
had decided that the vessel "would be ordered to abandon
the chrome ore charter and return to the United States
with a cargo of wheat"; that thereupon the respondents,
without waiting until the Shipping Board made such an
order, concluded that it would be better to sign the wheat
charter with the Grain Corporation rather than have the
Government take over the vessel; and that by carrying
out this wheat charter they themselves made it impossible
to perform the chrome ore charter.
2. There can be no recovery under clause (e) of the
Act on the theory-upon which alone the respondents'
petition was based-that the Shipping Board requisitioned
or took over the vessel and deprived the respondents of
its use. The findings not only fail to show any requisition or taking over of the vessel, but, on the contrary,
show that it remained in the possession of the respondents
and was used by them for their own benefit in carrying
out the wheat charter which they made with the Grain
Corporation for the very purpose of anticipating and preventing the taking over of the vessel by the Government.
Compare American Smelting Co. v. United States, 259
U. S.75, 78.
And even if the Shipping Board had in fact carried out
its intention of ordering the vessel to abandon the chrome
ore charter, and return to the United States with a cargo
of wheat, this, plainly, would not have been the placing
of "an order" for the ship within the meaning of clause
(a) of the Act.
3. The Shipping Board did not requisition the chrome
ore charter under clause (e) of the Act. This would have

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

278 U. S.

required the Shipping Board to take over the charter itself for the transportation of chrome ore. This it did not
do. The charter was not appropriated or kept alive for
the use of the Government. See Omnia Co. v. United
States, 261 U. S.502, 513; Union Petroleum S. S. Co. v.
United States (C. C. A.), 18 F. (2d) 752, 753.
In short, the findings show no facts entitling the respondents to recover compensation. from the United States
under the provisions of the Act of 1917. And the judgment is
Reversed.

UNITED FUEL GAS COMPANY ET AL. V. RAILROAD
COMMISSION OF KENTUCKY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 1. Argued November 28, 1927. Reargued October 15, 16,
192.-Decided January 2, 1929.
1. Federal courts having jurisdiction of a cause through questions
raised under the Federal Constitution, may pass on all questionsof state law involved. P. 307.
2. Parties who have procured action by a state commission under a
state statute, may not assail that action in a federal court of equity
upon the ground that that statute, or the one creating the commission, is void under the state constitution. P. 307.
3. A State may compel a public service company to continue to use
its facilities to supply an existing need so long as it continues to do
business elsewhere in the State. P. 308.
4. A public service company is bound by the common law, if not by
statute, to render its service at reasonable rates; and if the rates
fixed by a state commission are not shown to be confiscatory, a suit
in equity to enjoin their enforcement will not lie merely because
the order purporting to impose them was void for other reasons
under the state or federal constitution. P. 309.
5. A public utility seeking to set aside as confiscatory a rate fixed by
state authority, has the burden of proving by clear and convincing
evidence the value of property on which it is constitutionally entitled
to earn a fair return. P. 313.

