OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

278 U. S.

such taxes have been universally upheld. They are valid,
because, when the burden is indirect, even a large burden
upon interstate commerce does not render a tax void.
See Southern Ry. Co. v. Watts, 260 U. S. 519, 530; Hump
HairpinCo. v. Emmerson, 258 U. S. 290.
It would be unfortunate to hold that merely because a
foreign corporation, doing a local business does also interstate business, the State may not lay upon it a reasonable,
non-discriminatory excise, necessarily limited to a reasonable amnount, to which all domestic corporations similarly
situated are subject and which can affect interstate commerce only indirectly, if at all. To hold such a tax void
seems to me to ignore the wise rule of decision declared in
Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 698:
"The substance and not the shadow determines the
validity of the exercise of the [taxing] power."
Mr. JUSTICE HOLMES

joins in this opinion.

TAFT v. BOWERS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
GREENWAY v. SAME.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 16 and 17. Argued April 26, 1928.

Reargued October 9,

1928.-Decided February 18, 1929.
1. Under par. (2), § 202 of the Revenue Act of 1921, where one who
purchased shares of stock after February 28, 1913, gave them to
another after December 31, 1.920, when their market value Lad
increased over the investment, and the donee afterwards sold them
at a )rice still higher, the gain taxable to the donee is the difference
between the price realized by him and the price paid by the donor.
P. 481.

TAFT v. BOWERS.
470

Argument for Petitioner.

2. In such case, Congress has power under the Sixteenth Amendment
to treat the entire increase in value, when separated from the investment by the sale, as income of the donee. P. 482.
20 F. (2d) 561, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

275 U. S. 520, to judgments of the Circuit

Court of Appeals reversing judgments in favor of the
present petitioners, 15 F. (2d) 890, in actions against the
Collector to recover money paid as income taxes.
Mr. Henry W. Taft, with whom Mr. Clarence Castimore was on the brief, for petitioner in No. 16.
" Income " has been defined to mean " the gain derived from capital, labor, or from both combined,
provided it is understood to include profit gained
through a sale or conversion of capital assets." Eisner
v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189. In order to apply this
definition, we must determine first what is profit or
gain to the taxpayer. The value of the gift itself is
not profit or gain, but capital in the hands of the donee.
Edwards v. Cuba R. R. Co., 268 U. S. 628; United
States v. Oregon-Washington R. R. Co., 251 Fed. 211.
Indeed the statute itself specifically provides that a
gift is not to be included in the gross income of the
donee.
Prior to the year 1921, there was no specific provision
in the various Revenue Acts which fixed the basis for
determining gain or loss on the sale of property acquired
by gift, devise or bequest. The statute provided that
the basis to determine gain on the sale of assets was
cost or March 1, 1913 value. The uniform rule of the
Treasury Department under those prior statutes was
that the basis to be used for determining gain upon
the sale of an asset acquired by gift, devise or bequest, was the value of such property when acquired.
In other words, until the Revenue Act of 1921 became effective, the Department laid down the rule

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Petitioner.

278 U. S.

that gain on the sale of property acquired by gift
could be computed only by taking into consideration
the value of the gift when it was acquired. This was
an express recognition by the Treasury Department
that a gift is a capital transaction, as pointed out in
Edwards v. Cuba R. R. Co., and United States v.
Oregon-Washington R. R. Co., supra, and that the
donee can have "gain" only to the extent that the
proceeds in his hands exceed the value of his capital
at the time of acquisition. These rulings are entitled
to great weight. United States v. Hill, 120 U. S. 169.
In Goodrich v. Edwards, 255 U. S. 527, this Court held
that the Income Tax Act of 1916 taxed "gains" only, and
that a taxpayer could have no gain until the proceeds of
the sale exceeded his cost, even thbugh the proceeds may
have exceeded the March 1, 1913, value. In Lynch v.
Turrish, 247 U. S. 221, this Court passed upon the question as to whether an increase in the value of capital
assets which has accrued prior to March 1, 1913, was
income to a taxpayer when realized after that date at a
very great increase over the cost price. In passing upon
the question this Court said that there was "no increase
subject to tax," allowing the taxpayer to recover his capital investment on March 1, 1913. See also Doyle v.
Mitchell Bros., 247 U. S. 179.
We see no reason for distinguishing between a case
where the increase occurred prior to the passage of the
taxing statute and a case where the increase occurred
prior to ownership by the present taxpayer. If a taxpayer in the former case is entitled to recover his capital
investment before he can have any gain, a fortiori, a
taxpayer in the latter case should be entitled to recover
his capital investment which he acquired at the date of
the gift. We submit that the above decisions lay down
definitely the principle that a taxpayer is entitled to recover his cost or capital investment before he can have

TAFT v. BOWERS.
470

Argument for Petitioner.

gain or income. If then a taxpayer's capital investment
at the time of acquisition is not "income," as it is usually
understood, a statute which seeks to make it such is
invalid. Eisnerv. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189.
The provisions in question are capricious
and arbitrary and contrary to the Fifth Amendment. That the
results of the application of the statute here under consideration are arbitrary and capricious is plain. Let us
illustrate: A bought stock for $10. He makes a bona
fide gift of it to B after December 31, 1920, when it is
worth $100, and B sells the stock for $200. The statute
provides that B has a gain of $190. Thus B is given no
benefit whatsoever of the capital which he received at the
commencement of his period of ownership, and the indirect effect of the statute is that he is taxed on a part of
the value of the gift, which the statute provides in
another section, § 213 (b) (3), shall not be taxed as income. So far as B is concerned, he has an actual economic gain of $200, but it has long ago been settled that
an economic gain is not necessarily a taxable gain in the
constitutional sense. Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S. 151;
Southern Pacific Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 330; United
States v. Oregon-WashingtonR. R. Co., 251 Fed. 211.
Let us reverse the above example: A bought stock for
$200. He gives it to B after December 31, 1920, when
it is worth $100, and B, after a year, sells for $10. The
statute provides that B has a loss of $190. This is absurd
and unreal, because B never had anything worth $190.00
to lose. It was just this sort of unreality and disregard
of actual facts that this Court refused to sanction in
Goodrich v. Edwards, supra, and in the later case of
United States v. Flannery, 268 U. S. 98.
Congress must not use its taxing power in such an
arbitrary and capricious manner as to invade the rights of
citizens under the Fifth Amendment. Frew v. Bowers,
12 F. (2d) 625; Coolidge v. Nichols, 274 U. S. 531; Blodgett v. Holden, 275 U. S. 142.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Petitioner.

278 II. S.

The provision is not a legitimate and necessary exercise
of the power ancillary to the power to levy. taxes. To
attempt to remedy a supposed weakness in the statute by
adopting a basis for determining gain which is inherently
fallacious does not answer the argument that the amount
so included is not income. Eisner v. Macomber, supra.
Nor is it sufficient to justify the means that the omission
might have been closed by other methods of taxation, as,
for example, an excise tax on the gift, as suggested by the
learned Judges below.
Nor is the means justified by saying that the donee took
the property impressed with a tax liability. First of all,
no income tax liability with respect to the property attached to the donor at any time prior to or at the time of
the gift, People ex rel. Wilson v. Wendell, 196 N. Y. (App.
Div.) 596; so there was no liability to pass on. Secondly,
the argument has been effectively answered in Miles v.
Graham, 268 U. S. 501. There it was held that a federal
judge could not be taxed on his salary contrary to the
provisions of the Constitution, even though he took the
judgeship after the passage of the Revenue Acts and with
the knowledge that the Act attempted to tax his salary.
Furthermore, from the inception of our federal income
tax laws, a clear and distinct cleavage has been made between different taxpayers. Such has become settled practice, both in the wording of the laws and in the decisions
that have been made under them. The person acquiring
property can never tell what liability he assumes in the
way of income tax if any basis entirely foreign to him can
be arbitrarily adopted for determining his gain. It is this
fact that no doubt underlies the attempt in the statute
and the trend in the decisions, always to draw a distinct
line between separate taxpayers. If a decedent and his
executor, or a decedent and his legatees, must be dealt
with separately, surely there is no justification for con-

TAFT v. BOWERS.
470

Argument for Petitioner.

fusing the identity of a donor and a donee and treating
them as one.
Neither in "common speech" nor in the "ordinary
sense" (Eisner v. Macomber, supra; Merchants Loan &
Trust Co. v. Smietanka, 255 U. S. 509; United States v.
Oregon-WashingtonR. R., 251 Fed. 211) is a gift income.
Income, as defined by lexicographers, comes to a person
"within a specified time" or "regularly," or is the "periodical produce" or the "annual, or periodical receipts."
This language would exclude a gift or a legacy or an inheritance, all of which are casual and come without regularity. It must be " as payment for services, interest
from investment; revenue," or "produce of one's work,
business, lands, or investments."
While the definition of income has been extended by
the Income Tax Law and the decision of this Court in
Merchants Loan & Trust Co. v. Smietanka, supra., so
as to include accretion to capital, that decision was rendered with reference to an accretion which was a realized
"gain or profit," "produced by" or "derived from" an
investment; but the words used in Stratton's Independence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399, and applied in Doyle v.
Mitchell Bros. Co.., 247 U. S. 179, which were approved
as to the Income Tax Law in Eisner v. Macomber, 252
U. S. 189, and Merchants Loan & Trust Co. v. Smietanka,
255 U. S. 509, do not affect the essential features of an
income that it (1) must be the product of invested capita]
or labor or services, and (2) must be reckoned for regular periods (annually, if not specified otherwise), or
within some definite or specified period, as, for instance,
the period during which a realized gain upon an investment is to be measured.
It was not the intention of Congress to give to the
amended § 202 (b) (3) of the Revenue Act a retroactive
effect so as to take account of increase in the value of
the gift accruing prior to the passage of the law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Petitioner.

278 U. S.

Mr. Hiram C. Todd, with whom Mr. Roger S. Baldwin was on the brief, for petitioner in No. 17.
The gist of the Government's contention is that a gift
constitutes income to the donee; and that the Government could, if it saw fit, tax the entire proceeds of a sale
of the gift as income of the donee; from which it follows
that it can tax as income of the donee, the difference
between the cost of the gift to the donor and the proceeds
of the sale of the gift by the donee.
We believe this argument ignores the fundamental
fact that income is derivative and complementary. It
has no existence independent of the source from which
it is derived and is dependent upon capital in some form
or upon labor for its very existence. Citing Eisner v.
Macomber, 252 U. S. 189, and definitions of "income"
from various dictionaries.
If the entire proceeds of the sale of a gift constitute
income to the donee, where is the capital from which the
income is derived? The answer must be that the corpus
of the gift is capital in the hands of the donee at the time
of its receipt. But the mere conversion of such capital
into money does not constitute income. Lynch v. Turrish, 247 U. S. 221.
An amount sufficient to restore the capital value
that existed at the commencement of the taxing period
must be withdrawn from the gross proceeds in order
to determine whether there has been a gain or loss,
and the amount of the gain, if any. Doyle v. Mitchell
Bros. Co., 247 U. S. 179.
The popular conception of the meaning of " income
excludes property or money received by way of gift.
The ordinary layman would not think of including, as
a part of his income, money or property which he had
received as a gift.

TAFT v. BOWERS.
470

Argument for the Collector.

Assistant Attorney General Mabel Walker Willebrandt
and Mr. Edwin G. Davis, with whom Solicitor General
Mitchell, and Messrs. Sewall Key and J. Louis Monarch
were on the brief, for respondent.
The word " income" is to be construed in its ordinary
sense. Merchants Loan & Trust Co. v. Smietanka, 255
U. S. 509.
Congress, in the various Revenue Acts, has consistently
treated gifts as income; one time, as in § 4 of the Revenue
Act of 1916, specifically referring to gifts as "income,"
but generally by exempting them from inclusion in gross
income. The legislatures of certain States have regarded
gifts as income.
The sale of purchased property separates income from
capital. The income is measured by the difference between the investment and the selling price. If this rule
be applied to the sale of property acquired by gift, the
value of the gift, i. e., its selling price, will appear as income, since the donee's investment therein is zero. This
conception of income is not inconsistent with the definition of income in Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189; but
in any event, that definition, as the Court there intimated,
does not represent the uttermost limits of what can be regarded as income.
Congress assumed the gift of a corpus which is exempted from taxation, but it taxed the income from the
gift. Irwin v. Gavit, 268 U. S. 161. In the cases at bar,
the corpus was the shares of stock conveyed by gift. The
increment in the value of these shares when realized by
sale was income. Eisner v. Macomber, supra. That
part of the increase which accrued while the stock was
still held by the donor was inherently income. It was
intrinsically a gift of income to the donee, and, when
separated from capital and realized in the hands of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

donee by the sale of the gift, may constitutionally be
taxed as income to him for the year in which realized.
Since the authority to tax given by the Sixteenth
Amendment is an authority to tax "income," not "persons," a change in ownership of what is inherently income
after its accrual and before realization by sale, can not
affect the right of Congress to impose a tax thereon.
Atlantic Coast Line v. Daughton, 262 U. S. 413; United
States v. Phellis, 257 U. S. 156; McKinney v. United
States, 62 Ct. Cls. 180; Irwin v. Gavit, 268 U. S. 161;
Merchants Loan & Trust Co. v. Smietanka, 255 U. S. 509.
If the corpus of the gift in these cases be construed as
including the increment in the value of the shares of stock
while held by the donor, still the sale of the gift resulted
in a realized gain which may be constitutionally measured
by taking the cost of the latest actual capital investment
in the gift as a basis.
Section 202 (a) (2) of the Revenue Act of 1921 does
not prescribe a capricious or arbitrary scheme of taxation, nor is it in violation of the Fifth Amendment. It
is a necessary part of a complete scheme of taxation
whose purpose was to prevent tax evasion or avoidance
in respect to a particular type of gain.
It is not capricious to put property acquired by gift
in a special class and to tax it differently from property
acquired by purchase. Bowman v. Continental Oil Co.,
256 U. S. 642; Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. R., 240
U. S. 1; Thomas v. United States, 192 U. S. 363.
Mr. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners, who are donees of stocks, seek to recover
income taxes exacted because of advancement in the market value of those stocks while owned by the donors. The
facts are not in dispute. Both causes must turn upon the
effect of paragraph (2), § 202, Revenue Act, 1921, (c. 136,

TAFT v. BOWERS.
470

Opinion of the Court.

42 Stat. 227) which prescribes the basis for estimating taxable gain when one disposes of property which came to him
by gift. The records do not differ essentially and a statement of the material circumstances disclosed by No. 16
will suffice.
During the calendar years 1921 and 1922, the father of
petitioner Elizabeth C. Taft, gave her certain shares of
Nash Motors Company stock then more valuable than
when acquired by him. She sold them during 1923 for
more than their market value when the gift was made.
The United States demanded an income tax reckoned
upon the difference between cost to the donor and price
received by the donee. She paid accordingly and sued to
recover the portion imposed because of the advance in
value while the donor owned the stock. The right to tax
the increase in value after the gift is not denied.
Abstractly stated, this is the problemIn 1916 A purchased 100 shares of stock for $1,000 which
he held until 1923 when their fair market value had become $2,000. He then gave them to B who sold them
during the'year 1923 for $5,000. The United States claim
that, under the Revenue Act of 1921, B must pay income
tax upon $4,000, as realized profits. B maintains that
only $3,000-the appreciation during her ownershipcan be regarded as income; that the increase during the
donor's ownership is not income assessable against her
within intendment of the Sixteenth Amendment.
The District Court ruled against the United States; the
Circuit Court of Appeals held with them.
Act of Congress approved November 23, 1921, Chap.
136, 42 Stat. 227, 229, 237"Sec. 202. (a) That the basis for ascertaining the gain
derived or loss sustained from a sale or other disposition of
property, real, personal, or mixed, acquired after February
28, 1913, shall be the cost of such property; except that"(1) . . .

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

"(2) In the case of such property, acquired by gift after
December 31, 1920, the basis shall be the same as that
which it would have in the hands of the donor or the last
preceding owner by whom it was not acquired by gift. If
the facts necessary to determine such basis are unknown
to the donee, the Commissioner shall, if possible, obtain
such facts from such donor or last preceding owner, or any
other person cognizant thereof. If the Commissioner
finds it impossible to obtain such facts, the basis shall be
the value of such property as found by the Commissioner
as of the date or approximate date at which, according to
the best information the Commissioner is able to obtain,
such property was acquired by such donor or last preceding
owner. In the case of such property acquired by gift on
or before December 31, 1920, the basis for ascertaining
gain or loss from a sale or other disposition thereof shall
be the fair market price or value of such property at the
time of such acquisition; "
"Sec. 213. That for the purposes of this title (except as
otherwise provided in section 233) the term 'gross income'"(a) Includes gains, profits, and income derived from
salaries, wages, or compensation for personal service . . .
or gains or profits and income derived from any source
whatever. The amount of all such items (except as provided in subdivision (e) of section 201) shall be included
in the gross income for the taxable year in which received
by the taxpayer, unless, under methods of accounting
permitted under subdivision (b) of section 212, any such
amounts are to be properly accounted for as of a different
period; but
"(b) Does not include the following items, which shall
be exempt from taxation under this title;
"(l) .. (2) .. .
"(3) The value of property acquired by gift, bequest,
devise, or descent (but the income from such property
shall be included in gross income); . .

TAFT v. BOWERS.
470

Opinion of the Court.

We think the manifest purpose of Congress expressed
in paragraph (2), Sec. 202, supra, was to require the
petitioner to pay the exacted tax.
The only question subject to serious controversy is
whether Congress had power to authorize the exaction.
It is said that the gift became a capital asset of the
donee to the extent of its value when received and, therefore, when disposed of by her no part of that value could
be treated as taxable income in her hands.
The Sixteenth Amendment provides"The Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes
on incomes from whatever source derived, without apportionment among the several States, and without regard to
any census or enumeration."
Income is the thing which may be taxed-income from
any source. The Amendment does not attempt to define
income or to designate how taxes may be laid thereon, or
how they may be enforced.
Under former decisions here the settled doctrine is that
the Sixteenth Amendment confers no power upon Congress to define and tax as income without apportionment
something which theretofore could not have been properly
regarded as income.
Also, this Court has declared-" Income may be defined
as the gain derived from capital, from labor, or from both
combined, provided it be understood to include profit
gained through a sale or conversion of capital assets."
Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189, 207. The "gain derived from capital," within the definition, is "not a gain
accruing to capital, nor a growth or increment of value in
the investment, but a gain, a profit, something of exchangeable value proceeding from the property, severed
from the capital however invested, and coming in, that is,
received or drawn by the claimant for his separate use,
benefit and disposal." United States v. Phellis, 257 U. S.
156, 169.
27228-29-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

If, instead of giving the stock to petitioner, the donor
had sold it at market value, the excess over the capital he
invested (cost) would have been income therefrom and
subject to taxation under the Sixteenth Amendment. He
would have been obliged to share the realized gain with
the United States. He held the stock-the investmentsubject to the right of the sovereign to take part of any
increase in its value when separated through sale or conversion and reduced to his possession. Could he, contrary to the express will of Congress, by mere gift enable
another to hold this stock free from such right, deprive
the sovereign of the possibility of taxing the appreciation
when actually severed, and convert the entire property
into a capital asset of the donee, who invested nothing, as
though the latter had purchased at the market price?
And after a still further enhancement of the property,
could the donee make a second gift with like effect, etc.?
We think not.
In truth the stock represented only a single investment
of capital-that made by the donor. And when through
sale or conversion the increase was separated therefrom,
it became income from that investment in the hands of
the recipient subject to taxation according to the very
words of the Sixteenth Amendment. By requiring the
recipient of the entire increase to pay a part into the
public treasury, Congress deprived her of no right and
subjected her to no hardship. She accepted the gift with
knowledge of the statute and, as to the property received,
voluntarily assumed the position of her donor. When
she sold the stock she actually got the original sum invested, plus the entire appreciation; and out of the latter
only was she called on to pay the tax demanded.
The provision of the statute under consideration seems
entirely appropriate for enforcing a general scheme of
lawful taxation. To accept the view urged in behalf of
petitioner undoubtedly would defeat, to some extent, the

TAFT v. BOWERS.
470

Opinion of the Court.

purpose of Congress to take part of all gain derived from
capital investments. To prevent that result and insure
enforcement of its proper policy, Congress had power to
require that for purposes of taxation the donee should
accept the position of the donor in respect of the thing
received. And in so doing, it acted neither unreasonably
nor arbitrarily.
The power of Congress to require a succeeding owner,
in respect of taxation, to assume the place of his predecessor is pointed out by United States v. Phellis, 257 U. S.
156, 171"Where, as in this case, the dividend constitutes a
distribution of profits accumulated during an extended
period and bears a large proportion to the par value of the
stock, if an investor happened to buy stock shortly before
the dividend, paying a price enhanced by an estimate of
the capital plus the surplus of the company, and after
distribution of the surplus, with corresponding reduction
in the intrinsic and market value of the shares, he wpre
called upon to pay a tax upon the dividend received, it
might look in his case like a tax upon his capital. But it
is only apparently so. In buying at a price that reflected
the accumulated profits, he of course acquired as a part
of the valuable rights purchased the prospect of a dividend from the accumulations-bought 'dividend on' as
the phrase goes-and necessarily took subject to the burden of the income tax proper to be assessed against him
by reason of the dividend if and when made. He simply
stepped into the shoes, in this as in other respects, of the
stockholder whose shares he acquired, and presumably
the prospect of a dividend influenced the price paid, and
was discounted by the prospect of an income tax to be
paid thereon. In short, the question whether a dividend
made out of company profits constitutes income of the
stockholder is not affected by antecedent transfers of the
stock from hand to hand."

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

278 U. S.

There is nothing in the Constitution which lends support to the theory that gain actually resulting from the
increased value of capital can be treated as taxable income
in the hands of the recipient only so far as the increase
occurred while he owned the property. And Irwin v.
Gavit, 268 U. S. 161, 167, is to the contrary.
The judgments below are
Affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or
decision of these causes.
SALOMON

ET AL.

v. STATE TAX COMMISSION OF

NEW YORK.
SIMONSON
ERROR TO THE SURROGATES'

ET AL.

v. SAME.

COURT OF NEW YORK COUNTY,

STATE OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 79 and 80.

Argued November 28, 1928.-Decided February
18, 1929.

1. A state law imposing a graduated tax on the transfer of contingent
remainders measured by the value at the testator's death of the
estate transferred, undiminished by the value of the intervening
life estate, and requiring the executor to deposit security for the
payment of the tax, but postponing the definitive assessment and
the payment of the tax until after the death of the life tenantheld consistent with due process of law. P. 489.
2. The due process clause places no restriction on a State as to the
time at which an inheritance tax shall be levied or the property
valued for purposes of such tax. P. 490.
3. The graduation of the tax and the impossibility of forecasting
exactly the duration of life estates may cause a lack of equivalency
of tax burden as between a contingent remainder, when taxed
as above stated, and a like vested remainder when the tax on the
latter is based on its value separate from the intervening life estate
and is paid at the testator's death; but such differences do not
amount to an unjustifiable discrimination against the contingent
remainderman violative of the equal protection clause. Id.

