REINECKE v. TRUST CO.
327

Syllabus.

the policies or their proceeds be taxed, they should not be
included with the other property of the estate in determining the rate of the tax. As it is the termination of the
power of disposition of the policies by decedent at death
which operates as an effective transfer and is subjected
to the tax, there can be no objection to measuring the tax
or fixing its rate by including in the gross estate the value
of the policies at the time of death, together with all the
other interests of decedent transferred at his death. Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137. The inclusion in the gross
estate of gifts made in contemplation of death under
§ 402 (c) has a like effect.
Other objections to the operation of the statute are not
discussed either because they are not of weight or are not
presented by the certified facts.
The questions propounded by the Court of Claims in
form suggest that the tax is one imposed by the statute
upon the policies. This we have shown is not the case.
It is the transfer, which is a concomitant of the criteria
laid down by the statute for imposing the tax, which is the
subject of the tax. The tax is not on the policies, but we
answer the question as if inquiring about the true subject
of the tax.
Both questions are answered, No.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

and

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

dissent.
REINECKE, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 90.

Argued December 4, 5, 1928.-Decided January 2, 1929.

1. Respondent's testator in his lifetime conveyed property in trust
to pay the income to himself and on his death to pay it to

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

278 U. S.

designated persons until termination of the respective trusts, with
remainders over. Each trust instrument reserved to the settlor
alone the power to revoke the trust created by it, and provided
that upon the exercise of that power the corpus of the trust must
be returned to him by the trustee. The trusts were not in contemplation of death and were created before the date of the Revenue Act of 1921, but the settlor died after that date without
having revoked them, Held subject to transfer tax under the
Act. P. 345.
2. A transfer in trust subject to a power of revocation in the transferor alone, terminable at his death, is not complete until his death
and hence a transfer tax applied to it, as in Revenue Act, 1921,
§ 422, is not retroactive where his death follows the date of the taxing statute, though the creation of the trust preceded that date.
Chase Nat'l Bank v. United States, ante, p. 327, Saltonstall v.
Saltonstall, 276 U. S. 260. P. 345.
3. The testator in his lifetime established several other trusts by
deeds, creating life interests in income. In one the life interest was
to terminate five years after his death, or on the death of the
designated beneficiary should she survive that date, with remainder over. In the others the life interests were to terminate
five years after his death or on the death of the respective life
tenants, whichever should happen first, with remainders over. He
reserved to himself power to supervise reinvestment of trust
funds, to require the. trustee to execute proxies to his nominee,
to vote shares of stock held by the trustee, and to control leases
executed by the trustee; and he also reserved power to " alter,
change or, modify" each trust, which was to be exercised, in the
case of some of the'm, by himself and the single beneficiary of each
trust, acting jointly, and, in the case of the remaining trust, by
himself and a majority of the beneficiaries, acting jointly. The
trusts were not in contemplation of death, and were created before the passage of the Revenue Act of 1921, but after the passage
of the Revenue Act of 1918, which contained similar estate tax
provisions; and the settlor died after the date of the 1921 Act
without having modified any of them in any manner here material. Held not subject to the transfer tax, because:
(1) Section 402 (c) of the Revenue 'Act of 1921 is inapplicable
to a trust created by a decedent in his lifetime, not in contemplation of death, which vested beneficial interests in others and which
he was without, power to modify or revoke except with the consent
of all or a majority of the beneficiaries. P. 346.

REINECKE v. TRUST CO.
339

Argument for Petitioner.

(2) Since the shifting of the economic interest under such a trust
was complete when the trust was made, a reservation to the settlor
of power to manage the trust will not render the transfer taxable
under the statute upon his death. P. 346.
(3) The donor having parted with the possession and his entire
beneficial interest in the property when the trusts were created, the
mere passing of possession and enjoyment from the life tenants to
the remaindermen after his death, as directed, and after the enactment of the statute, was not within the taxing provisions. The
clause of § 402 .(c) respecting trusts intended to take effect in possession and enjoyment at or after the donor's death should be construed as limited to interests passing from his possession, enjoyment or control at his death and so taxable as transfers at death
under § 401. P. 347.
(4) The statute should be construed in favor of the taxpayer
and to avoid doubts as to constitutionality. P. 348.
24 F. (2d) 91, reversed in part; affirmed in part.
CERTIORARI, 277 U. S. 579, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which affirmed the District Court in dismissing a suit to recover the amount of an estate tax
alleged to have been illegally assessed and collected.

Mr. Thomas H. Lewis, Jr., with whom Solicitor General
Mitchell, Assistant Attorney General Mabel Walker Willebrandt, and Messrs. Clarence M. Charest, General Counsel,
Bureau of Internal Revenue, and Sewall Key were on the
brief, for petitioner;
A trust, under which the corpus can not be distributed
until after the death of the settlor, is a trust "intended
to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after" the
death of the settlor, within the meaning of § 402 (c) of
the Revenue Act of 1921. Shukert v. Allen, 273 U. S. 545;
Vanderbilt v. Eidman, 196 U. S. 480; McCaughn v. Girard
Trust Co., 11 F. (2d) 520; Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S.
625; Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531.
Congress has power to, include in a decedent's gross
estate the value of property in respect of which he has
created a trust prior to the passage of the Act, reserv-

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Counsel for Respondent.

278 U. S.

ing to himself the income for life and an unrestricted
power of revocation. Nichols v. Coolidge, supra; Hill v.
Wallace, 259 U. S. 44; Nat'l Life Ins. Co. v. United States,
277 U. S. 508; Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Bowers, 15
F. (2d) 706; Matter of Schmidlapp, 236 N. Y. 278;
Saltonstall v. Saltonstall,276 U. S. 260; Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625; Lewellyn v. Frick, 268 U. S. 238.
Trusts created in 1919 during the effectiveness of
§ 402 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1918, which is identical
with the one here involved, may be included in the gross
income of a decedent's estate under § 402 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1921, as the repeal of the earlier section and
its re-enactment in the Revenue Act of 1921 does not
create a new law attempting to reach back, but is a continuation of the old. Bear Lake IrrigationCo. v. Garland,
164 U. S. 1; Lewis' Sutherland Statutory Construction,
Vol. 1, 2d ed., § 238; Lamb v. Powder River Live Stock
Co., 132 Fed. 434; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. United
States, 155 Fed. 945; Steamship Co. v. Joliffe, 2 Wall. 450.
Congress has power to include in a decedent's gross
estate the value of property with respect to which a trust
has been created during the effectiveness of a prior law
identical with that here involved, where some present interest and a qualified right to revoke is retained by the settlor, although the income is payable to others than the
settlor. Y. M. C. A. v. Davis, 264 U. S. 47; Edwards v.
Slocum, 264 U. S. 61; Pennsylvania Co. v. Lederer, 292
Fed 629; Whitlock-Rose v. McCaughn, 21 F. (2d) 164.
Messrs. J. F. Dammann, Jr., and Wm. B. McIlvaine,
with whom Mr. Stuart J. Templton was on the brief, for
respondent.
Mr. Elihu Root, Jr., filed a brief as amicus curiae on behalf of the Home Trust Company, by special leave of
Court.

REINECKE v. TRUST CO.
339

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Edward H. Blanc, Russell L. Bradford, and
Henry C. Eldert filed a brief as amici curiae on behalf of
the Farmers' Loan & Trust Company, by special leave of
Court.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondent executor brought suit in the District Court
for northern Illinois to recover from petitioner, a collector
of Internal Revenue, the amount of a tax alleged to have
been illegally assessed and collected upon the estate of
respondent's testator under the Revenue Act of 1921, c.
136, 42 Stat. 227. Judgment of the district court for the
executor, upon an overruled demurrer, was affirmed by
the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. 24 F. (2d)
91. This Court granted certiorari April 23, 1928, 277
U. S.579.
Respondent's testator died May 30, 1922. On various
dates between 1903 and 1910 he established seven trusts
by deed which are conceded not to have been in contemplation of death. Two of them were created respectively
in 1903 and 1910. They are identified in the record as
Trusts No. 1831 and No. 3048, and referred to here as
the "two trusts." By them the income from the trusts
was reserved to the settlor for life and on his death the
income of each trust was to be paid to a designated person until the termination of the trust as provided in
the trust instrument, with remainders over. By the
terms of each trust there was reserved to the settlor alone
a power of revocation of the trusts, upon the exercise of
which the trustee was required to return the corpus of
the trust to him.
The remaining five trusts, designated in the record as
Trusts Nos. 4477, 4478, 4479, 4480 and 4481, referred to
here as the "five trusts," were created in 1919 before the
passage of the Revenue Act of 1921, but after the enact-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

ment of the similar provisions of the estate tax of the
Revenue Act of 1918. 40 Stat. 1096, 1097. By each,
life interests in the income, on terms not now important,
were created. In one the life interest was terminable
five years after the death of the settlor or on the death
of the designated life beneficiary should she survive that
date, with a remainder over. In the other four, life interests in the income were created, terminable five years
after the settlor's death or on the death of the respective
life tenants, whichever should first happen, with remainders over. The settlor reserved to himself power to
supervise the reinvestment of trust funds, to require the
trustee to execute proxies to his nominee, to vote any
shares of stock held by the trustee, to control all lease
executed by the trustee, and to appoint successor trustees.
With respect to each of these five trusts a power was also
reserved " to alter, change or modify the trust," which was
to be exercised in the case of four of them by the settlor
and the single beneficiary of each trust, acting jointly,
and in the case of one of the trusts, by the settlor and
a majority of the beneficiaries named, acting jointly.
The settlor died without having revoked either of the
two trusts and with the beneficiaries and life tenants designated in the trusts surviving him, and without having
modified any of the five trusts except one, and that in a
manner not now material.
The commissioner, in fixing the amount of the estate
for tax purposes included the corpus of all seven trusts.
Section 401 of the statute imposes a tax at a graduated
rate "upon the transfer of the net estate of every decedent" dying after the passage of the act. By 402 it is
provided that in calculating the tax there shall be included
in the gross estate all property, tangible and intangible,
"(c) To the extent of any interest therein of which the
decedent has at any time made a transfer, or with respect
to which he has at any time created a trust, in contem-

REINECKE v. TRUST CO.
339

Opinion of the Court.

plation of or intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his death (whether such transfer or
trust is made or created before or after the passage of this
Act). ..."
As to the two trusts, it is argued that since they were
created long before the passage of any statute imposing an
estate tax the taxing statute if applied to them is unconstitutional and void, because retroactive, within the ruling of Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531. In that case it
was held that the provisions of the similar § 402 of the
1918 Act, 40 Stat. 1097, making it applicable to trusts
created before the passage of the act was in conflict with
the Fifth Amendment of the federal Constitution and
void, as respects transfers completed before any such statute was enacted. But in Chase National Bank v. United
States, decided this day, ante, p. 327, the decision is rested
on the ground, earlier suggested with respect to the Fourteenth Amendment in Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276 U. S.
260, 271, that a transfer made subject to a, power of revocation in the transferor, terminable at his death, is not complete until his death. Hence § 402, as applied to the present transfers, is not retroactive, since his death followed
the passage of the statute. For that reason, stated more
at length in our opinion in Chase NationalBank v. United
States, supra, we hold that the tax was rightly imposed
on the transfers of the corpus of the two trusts and as
to them the judgment of the court of appeals should be
reversed.
It is argued by respondent that § 402 by its terms does
not impose any tax on the transfers involved in the five
trusts and that, even if subject to the provisions of that
section, they ante-dated the passage of the 1921 act, and
the section as to them is retroactive and void, although
they were created after the enactment of the corresponding sections of the 1918 act. The government argues that
§ 402 applies to all these transfers and is not retroactive

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

as to them because of the reserved powers to manage and
to modiiy the trusts, which did not terminate until the
death of the decedent after the passage of the statute,
and that even without such reserved powers the transfers
of the remainder interests were all subject to the tax because, within the language of § 402, they were "intended
to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his
death."
As the tax cannot be supported unless the statute
applies in one of the two ways suggested by the government, we must necessarily determine the effect of the reserved powers and the meaning and application of the
phrase quoted from § 402. If it be assumed that the
power to modify the trust was broad enough to authorize
disposition of the trust property among new beneficiaries
or to revoke the trusts, still it was not one vested in the
settlor alone, as were the reserved powers in the case of the
two trusts. He could not effect any change in the beneficial interest in the trusts without the consent, in the
case of four of the trusts, of the person entitled to that
interest, and in the case of one trust without the consent
of a majority of those so entitled. Since the power to
revoke or alter was dependent on the consent of the one
entitled to the beneficial, and consequently adverse, interest, the trust, for all practical purposes, had passed as completely from any control by decedent which might inure
to his own benefit as if the gift had been absolute.
Nor did the reserved powers of management of the
trusts save to decedent any control over the economic
benefits or the enjoyment of the property. He would
equally have reserved all these powers and others had he
made himself the trustee, but the transfer would not for
that reason have been incomplete. The shifting of the
economic interest in the trust property which was the subject of the tax was thus complete as soon as the trust was

REINECKE v. TRUST CO.
339

Opinion of the Court.

made. His power to recall the property and of control
over it for his own benefit then ceased and as the trusts
were not made in contemplation of death, the reserved
powers do not serve to distinguish them from any other
gift inter vivos not subject to the tax.
But the question much pressed upon us remains,
whether, the donor having parted both wdth the possession and his entire beneficial interest in the property
when the trust was created, the mere passing of possession or enjoyment of the trust fund from the life tenants
to the remaindermen after the testator's death, as directed,
and after the enactment of the statute, is included within
its taxing provisions. That question, not necessarily involved, was left unanswered in Shulcert v. Allen, 273 U. S.
545. There the gift of a remainder interest, having been
made without reference to the donor's death, although it
did in fact vest in possession and enjoyment after his
death, was held not to be a transfer intended to take effect
in possession or enjoyment at or after the donor's death,
and for that reason not to be subject to the tax. But
here the gift was intended to so take effect, although the
transfer which effected it preceded the death of the settlor and was itself not subject to the tax unless made so by
the circumstances that the possession or enjoyment passed
as indicated.
In its plan and scope the tax is one imposed on transfers
at death or made in contemplation of death and is measured by the value at death of the interest which is transferred. Cf. Y. M. C. A. v. Davis, 264 U. S. 47, 50; Edwards v. Slocum, 264 U. S. 61, 62; N. Y. Trust'Co. v.
Eisner, 256 U. S. 345, 349. It is not a gift tax, and the
tax on gifts once imposed by the Revenue Act of 1924, c.
234, 43 Stat. 313, has been repealed, 44 Stat. 126. One
may freely give his property to another by absolute gift
without subjecting himself or his estate to a tax, but we

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

are asked to say that this statute means that he may not
make a gift inter vivos, equally absolute and complete,
without subjecting it to a tax if the gift takes the form of
a life estate in one with remainder over to another at or
after the donor's death. It would require plain and compelling language to justify so incongruous a result and we
think it is wanting in the present statute.
It is of significance, although not conclusive, that the
only section imposing the tax, § 401, does so on the net
estate of decedents, and that the miscellaneous items of
property required by § 402 to be brought into the gross
estate for the purpose of computing the tax, unless the
present remainders be an exception, are either property
transferred in contemplation of death or property passing out of the control, possession or enjoyment of the decedent at his death. They are property held by the decedent in joint tenancy or by the entirety, property of another subject to the decedent's power of appointment,
and insurance policies effected by the decedent on his own
life, payable to his estate or to others at his death. The
two sections, read together, indicate no purpose to tax
completed gifts made by the donor in his lifetime not in
contemplation of death, where he has retained no such
control, possession or enjoyment. In the light of the
general purpose of the statute and the language of § 401
explicitly imposing the tax on net estates of decedents, we
think it at least doubtful whether the trusts or interests
in a trust intended to be reached by the phrase in § 402
(c) "to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after
his death," include any others than those passing from the
possession, enjoyment or control of the donor at his death
and. so taxable as transfers at death under § 401. That
doubt must be resolved in favor of the taxpayer. Gould
v. Gould, 245 U. S. 151, 153; United States v. Merriam,
263 U. S: 179, 187. Doubts of the constitutionality of
the statute, if construed as contended by the government,

GLEASON v. SEABOARD RY.
Syllabus.

339

would require us to adopt the construction, at least reasonably possible here, which would uphold the act. United
States v. Delaware,& Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 407;
United States v. Standard Brewery, 251 U. S. 210, 220;
United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394, 401, 402;
PanamaRailroadCo. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 390. The
judgment below
As to the two trusts, Nos. 1831, 3048-Reversed.
As to the five trusts, Nos. 4477, 4478,
-Affirmed.
4479, 4480, and 4481

GLEASON

CERTIORARI

v. SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY
COMPANY.
TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 51.

Argued November 22, 1928.-Decided January 2, 1929.

1. The doctrine that a principal shall be held liable for the fraudulent
representations of his agent made within the scope of the agent's
authority, is not subject to an exception exonerating the principal
where the agent acts with the secret purpose to benefit only himself and without the knowledge or consent of the principal. Friedlander v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.,. 130 U. S. 146, distinguished and
in part overruled. P. 353.
2. Plaintiff paid a draft attached to an "order notify bill of lading
in reliance upon notice and assurance that the goods had arrived,
given to him by an agent of the defendant railway company whose
duty it was to give such notices of arrival. It turned out
that the draft and bill had been forged by the agent himself and
by him negotiated for the purpose of defrauding the plaintiff to
the agent's own advantage. Held that the'railway company was
liable for the deceit. P. 353.
3. Section 22 of the Bills of Lading Act, enlarging the implied authority of agents to issue bills of lading, has no bearing on the present.
case. P. 357.
21 F. (2d) 883, reversed.

