LASH'S PRODUCTS CO. v. UNITED STATES.

175

Opinion of the Court.

LASH'S PRODUCTS COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 98.

Argued December 7, 1928.-Decided January 2, 1929.

1. The tax imposed by § 628 of the Revenue Act of 1918 on soft
drinks sold by the manufacturer in bottles, etc., " equivalent to
10 per centum of the price for which so sold," is a tax on the manufacturer alone which, accurately speaking, cannot be "passed
on" to the purchaser. P. 176.
2. Where a manufacturer sold such goods at his regular prices plus
10% added to cover the tax and not separately billed, and the
purchasers, being notified of the arrangement, paid the whole,
the tax payable by the manufacturer was properly computed on
the total amount so paid by the purchasers. Id.
64 Ct. Cls. 252, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 277 U. S.581, to a judgment of the Court
of Claims rejecting a claim for over-payment of taxes.

Mr. A. R. Serven, with whom Messrs. Daniel R. Forbes
and Richard D. Daniels were on the brief, for petitioner.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Assistant Attorney General Galloway and Mr. GardnerP. Lloyd were
on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a suit to recover the amount of certain taxes paid
under the Revenue Act of 1918 (Act of February 24, 1919,
c. 18, § 628, 40 Stat. 1057, 1116). By § 628 there is imposed on "soft drinks, sold by the manufacturer, . . . in
bottles or other closed containers, a tax equivalent to 10
per centum of the price for which so sold." This tax was
paid by the petitioner, calculated at ten per centum of the
sum actually received by it for the goods sold. But the
petitioner had notified its customers beforehand that it

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

paid the ten per cent.. tax and it contends that in this way
it passed the tax on and that the true price of the goods
was the sum received less the amount of the tax. The
phrase 'passed the tax on' is inaccurate, as obviously the
tax is laid and remains on the manufacturer and on him
alone. Heckman & Co. v. I. S. Dawes & Son Co., 12 F.
(2d) 154. The purchaser does not pay the tax. He pays
or may pay the seller more for the goods because of the
seller's obligation, but that is all. Still the question as to
the meaning of the statute remains.
The petitioner supports its position by a regulation of
the Commissioner that when the tax is billed as a separate
item it is not to be considered as an increase in the sale
price. Naturally a delicate treatment of a tax on sales
might seek to avoid adding a tax on the amount of the
tax. But it is no less natural to avoid niceties and to fix
the tax by the actual price received. Congress could do
that as properly as it could have added one-tenth to the
tax on the price as fixed by the other items determining
the charge to the buyer. The price is the total sum paid
for the goods. The amount added because of the tax is
paid to get the goods and for nothing else. Therefore it
is part of the price, and if the statute were taken literally,
as there would be no reason for not taking it if it were
now passed for the first time, there might be difficulty in
accepting the Commissioner's distinction even if the tax
were made a separate item of the bill. But if, in view of
the history in the Solicitor General's brief, we assume with
him that the practice of the Commissioner has been ratified by Congress, we agree with his argument that the petitioner must take the privilege as it is offered. It did
not bill. its tax as a separate item, and the Commissioner's
Regulations notified it that ' if the sales price of a taxable
beverage is increased to cover the tax, the tax is on such
increased sales price' although they purported to make a
different rule 'when the tax is billed as a, separate item.'

COMMERCIAL INS. CO. v. STONE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

175

There has been some difference of opinion in the lower
Courts but we regard the interpretation of the law as
plain.
Judgment affirmed.
COMMERCIAL CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY v. CONSOLIDATED STONE COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 75.

Argued November 27, 1928.-Decided January 2, 1929.

1. The objection that a suit in the District Court between citizens of
different States was not brought in the district of the residence of
either, goes only to the venue and is waived when the defendant,
though duly summoned, remains passive, neither answering nor
appearing, and suffers judgment by default. P. 179.
2. The waiver in such case results also under § 11311, Ohio Gen.
Code, the objection to venue being apparent on the face of the
plaintiff's petition. P. 180.
RESPONSE

to a question certified by the Circuit Court

of Appeals.
Mr. Rees H. Davis, with whom Mr. Paul Lamb was on
the brief, for the Commercial Casualty Insurance
Company.
Mr. Norman A. Emery, with whom Mr. Union C.
DeFord was on the brief, for the Consolidated Stone
Company.,
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
We here are concerned with a certificate wherein the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, pursuant to
§ 346, Title 28, United States Code, propounds a question
of law arising in a case pending in that court.
2722

-29-

12

