WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
358

367

Syllabus.

fore, that the orders of the Circuit Court of Appeals in
affirming the judgments of the District Court were the
proper ones.
The judgments afe affirmed.

STATE OF WISCONSIN ET AL. v. STATE OF ILLINOIS AND SANITARY DISTRICT OF CHICAGO
ET AL.

STATE OF MICHIGAN v. SAME.
STATE OF NEW YORK v. SAME.
Nos. 7, 11, and 12 Original. Argued April 2:3, 24, 1928.Decided January 14, 1929.
1. A suit between States bordering on the Great Lakes, in which the
plaintiffs sought to enjoin the defendant State and its administrative agency from diverting the lake water through a sanitary canal
into another watershed under a permit from the Secretary of War,
alleging that the diversion, by lowering the level of the lakes and
waters connecting them, inflicted great damage upon public and
private riparian property in the plaintiff States and to their waterborne commerce; that it was contrary to legislation of Congress,
and, if permitted thereby, was unconstitutional in that it exceeded
the power of Congress to regulate commerce, preferred the ports
of one State over those of other States, deprived the plaintiffs and
their citizens of property without due process of law, and invaded
the sovereign rights of the plaintiffs as members of the Union,held a case within the original jurisdiction of this Court. P. 409.
2. Under § 10 of the Act of 1899, 26 Stat. 455, obstructions to the
navigable capacity of the waters of the United States are prohibited
if not affirmatively authorized by Congress; but obstructions of the
kinds specified in the second and third clauses of the section are so
authorized when approved by the Chief of Engineers and the
Secretary of War, without further action by Congress. P. 411.
3. The authority thus conferred on executive officers is not an unconstitutional delegation as applied to determining the amount of water
that may be diverted from a lake without impairing navigability.
P. 414.

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

278 U.S.

4. Authority for diverting water from Lake Michigan through the
Chicago Sanitary Canal is not to be found in such action as Congress has taken relative to a proposed waterway between that lake
and the Illinois and Mississippi Rivers, nor in its appropriations for
widening and deepening the Chicago River. P. 416.
5. The Sanitary District of Chicago, an agency of the State of Illinois, operating a canal partly in the Chicago River and connected
with streams leading to the Mississippi River through which the
great volumes of sewage emanating from Chicago and its environs
are carried to the Mississippi watershed by means of water abstracted from Lake Michigan, having been enjoined from diverting
such water in excess of the amounts allowed by an existing permit
from the Secretary of War or any that might be issued by him
according to law, (Sanitary District v. United States, 266 U. S.
405), applied for and received from the Secretary a new permit,
under the Act of March 3, 1899. The new permit was temporary
and revocable and subject to the condition, among others, that a
specified measure of diligence be displayed by the District in providing other means of sewage disposal, which in course of time
would obviate excessive drafts on the lake water for that purpose.
In a suit against the Sanitary District and the State of Illinois by
other States bordering on the Great Lakes and connecting waters,
in which it appeared that the continued diversions at Chicago had
lowered the water level, to the damage of the plaintiffs and their
citizens, held:
(1) Under the limited authority conferred upon him by the Act
of March 3, 1899, the Secretary of War could not permit the continued withdrawal of lake water merely to aid the Sanitary District in disposing of sewage. P. 417.
(2) Support for the permit rests upon the need of preserving the
navigability of the Port of Chicago, which would become unusable
if the sewage were to accumulate pending provision of means other
than the waterway for disposing of it, and upon maintaining navigation in the Chicago River, a part of that Port, for which ,comparatively insignificant water flow may be required. P. 418.
(3) Save what may be needed for the Chicago River, the plaintiffs are entitled to have the diversions stopped by injunction, the
decree, however, to be so framed as to accord a reasonable
time within which the Sanitary District may provide other
means of sewage disposal, reducing the diversion as the new means
become operative from time to time, until the sewage shall be en-

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Statement of the Case.

tirely disposed of thereby, whereupon the injunction shall become
final and complete. Pp. 418-420.
(4) The cause should be re-referred to the master to take testimony on the practical measures needed and the time required for
their completion, and to report his conclusions for the formulation
of such a decree. P. 421.
(5) States bordering on the Mississippi River and seeking as
interveners to maintain the diversions in question because of their
alleged beneficial effect upon the navigability of that stream, held
to have no rightful interests in the matter. P. 420.

The first of these bills, filed July 14, 1922, by the State
of Wisconsin, was amended October 5, 1925, the States
of Minnesota, Ohio, and Pennsylvania becoming co-plaintiffs. The amended bill sought an injunction restraining
the State of Illinois and the Sanitary District of Chicago
from causing any water to be taken from Lake Michigan
in such manner as permanently to divert the same from
the lake. There was a further prayer, that if the Sanitary and Ship Canal should be used as a navigable waterway of the United States and be subject to the same control on the part of the United States as other iiavigable
waterways, the defendants should be restrained from
permanently diverting any water from Lake Michigan
in excess of the amount which the Court should determine
to be reasonably required for navigation in and through
said Canal and the connecting Waters to the Illinois and
Mississippi Rivers, without injury to the navigable capacity of the Great Lakes and their connecting waters.
It was also prayed that the defendants be restrained from
dumping or draining into the canal any sewage or waste
in such quantity and manner as excessively to pollute and
render the canal, the Chicago, Des Plaines, and Illinois
Rivers, unsanitary and injurious to the people of the
plaintiff States navigating said waterways.
To the amended bill the State of Illinois filed a demurrer and the Sanitary District filed its answer, which in27228-29-24

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Statement of the Case.

278 U. S.

eluded a motion to dismiss. The States of Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee, and Louisiana, by leave of Court, became intervening co-defendapts and moved to dismiss the
bill. The demurrer was overruled and the motions to dismiss were denied, without prejudice. 270 U. S. 634. The
intervening defendants and the State of Illinois filed their
respective answers. The States of Mississippi -and Arkansas were permitted to intervene as defendants, and
adopted the answers filed by the other interveners.
The State of Michigan, on March 8, 1926, filed its bill
in this Court against the State of Illinois and the Sanitary
District, for the same relief; and the defendants filed their
answers on June 1, 1926.
On October 18, 1926, the State of New York filed its
bill in this Court against the State of Illinois and the
Sanitary District for the same relief; and on April 18,
1927, it was ordered that the answer filed by the defendants in the Michigan suit should be accepted and treated
as their answer to the bill of New York, other than the
third paragraph. 274 U. S. 712. On May 31, 1927, this
paragraph was stricken out, without prejudice. 274 U. S.
488.
On June 7, 1926, the first cause was referred to Charles
E. Hughes, Esq., as Special Master, to take the evidence
and report the same to this Court with his findings of
fact, conclusions of law, and recommendations for a decree, the parties in the Michigan case being granted leave
to participate. 271 U. S. 650. Similar leave was granted
on November 23, 1926, to the parties in the New York
case. 273 U. S.642.
After hearings, the master made his report, in which
he concluded:
(1) That a justiciable controversy was presented; (2)
that Illinois and the Sanitary District had no authority
to make or continue the diversion in question without
the consent of the United States; (3) that Congress had

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Argument for New York.

power to regulate the diversion, i. e., to determine
whether and to what extent it should be permitted; (4)
that Congress had not directly authorized it; (5) that
Congress, by the Act of March 3, 1899, had conferred
authority upon. the Secretary of War to regulate the diversion, provided he act not arbitrarily but in reasonable relation to the purpose of his delegated authority;
(6) that the permit of March 3, 1925 (described in the
opinion of the Court) was valid and effective according
to its terms, the entire control of the diversion remaining
with Congress. He recommended therefore that the bill
be dismissed without prejudice to the rights of the plaintiffs to institute suit to prevent a diversion of water from
Lake Michigan in case such diversion were made or attempted without authority of law.
The case carne before the Court upon exceptions taken
by the plaintiffs to the master's report.
Mr. Nathan L. Miller, with whom Messrs. Albert Ottinger,Attorney General of New York, Albert J. Danaher,
Assistant Attorney General, and Randall J. LeBoeuf, Jr.,
were on the brief, for plaintiffs in No. 12 Original.
The State of New York has the right for itself and in behalf of its citizens to insist that the waters of the Great
Lakes-St. Lawrence Waterway flow down to it without
diminution by the defendants, under the common law and
under the law of riparian rights as it exists in the State of
Illinois and in the State of New York.
The acts of the defendants constitute an illegal use of
the waters of a natural watercourse, actionable under the
law of Illinois or the law or New York. New York asks
the Court to apply the same rule that the Illinois courts
would apply in a similar matter properly before them.
The Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Waterway being, in fact,
the boundary between the Dominion of Canada and the
United States of America, the principles of international

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for New York.

278 U. S.

law are particularly appropriate. The treaties recognize
the importance of unobstructed navigation over the waterway. A duty imposed upon a riparian State, either by
international law or treaty, to maintain the navigability
of an international waterway "implies an obligation also
to check within places subject to the control of such State
commission of any acts which, unless restricted, would
prove injurious to navigation generally." Hyde, Internat.
L., § 183. This obligation would seem to render improper
the tolerance of any diversion productive of such an effect
even though it should occur at a point where the river
ceased to be navigable and lay wholly within the domain
of the acquiescent territorial sovereign. An international
stream must be considered as a unity rather than from
the viewpoint of the selfish needs of a particular State
seeking to divert its waters. "Where a river traverses or
serves as the boundary of territories of several States, the
existence of the river interest, as such, becomes the more
apparent, because of the common concern of all in its
welfare." Op. Cit., b. This principle seems peculiarly
appropriate to the controversy before the Court. Cf.
Farnham, Waters and Water Rights, Vol. 1, § 6. This
principle has the support of the decisions.
The Ordinance of July 13, 1787, (Art. IV) for the Government of the territory northwest of the river Ohio
assures to all the States interested in the waters covered
by it that no one State may obstruct their navigable
capacity.
The rule that a State may not divert the waters of a
natural watercourse to the injury of a downstream State
or its citizens has been applied by this Court in interstate
controversies where even the great consideration of navigation was lacking.
The State of New York is the owner of the lands under
the waters of Lakes Erie and Ontario and the Niagara

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Argument for New York.

and St. Lawrence Rivers within its limits. It has a property interest in the running water naturally flowing to
such lands and its shores on the lakes and rivers of the
Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Waterway. When such running water is withheld and permanently diverted into the
Mississippi Watershed, the property of the State of New
York is taken, and it is entitled to an injunction. Such
a withholding of the running water as the acts of the
defendants have caused, violates the rights of the State
and its citizens guaranteed by the Constitution.
Neither Congress nor the Secretary of War has been
delegated power by the States to permit this diversion for
sewage and hydro-electric power development purposes to
the detriment of the State of New York, and its citizens,
and to the substantial injury of interstate commerce.
Reference is made to the possible impairment of navigation should Chicago be permitted to discharge its sewage into Lake Michigan. No testimony was given on
this point by either side. Furthermore, any injury which
might result from such a cause to the free movement of
commerce would be caused to a greater degree by the
discharge of the sewage into the restricted Des Plaines
and Illinois rivers. Also, mention is made of the possible
benefit the diversion might have upon navigation of the
Mississippi River during periods of low water, but on
this point the testimony was so unsatisfactory and indefinite that the Master stated it could not support a
finding. These two possible benefits to commerce and
navigation through the diversion are so utterly trivial in
comparison with the injury which has been done by the
diversion to the commerce passing over the Great LakesSt. Lawrence Waterway, that they must be disregarded.
The mere supposition that if Congress had acted, it might
have considered these details; or the belief that the Secretary of War might have given them consideration, when

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for New York.

278 U. S.

his permit of March 3, 1925, and his letter accompanying it showed plainly that the purpose of the diversion
was to aid in.
solving Chicago's sewage disposal problem;
are too speculative to permit any serious comparison between them and the proved damage to the commerce of
the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Waterway.
The controversy, therefore, resolves itself into a determination whether or not the Special Master's proposition is sound, that if navigation is affected, although injuriously, the Secretary of War may permit a diversion
for the benefit of Chicago's sewage disposal and water
power development. It is respectfully submitted that
the States have not surrendered to the Federal Government the right to permit a diversion from a natural watercourse for the local purposes of a municipality and to
the serious injury of a great commerce, merely because,
through that injury, navigation is affected.
The cases in which this Court deals with the discretion
vested in Congress to determine what constitutes an obstruction of a navigable waterway, relate to what might
be described as the normal intendment of the term "obstruction." All of them, to some extent, involve the
question of whether or not a bridge, or a pier, or a dam was
so constructed as to impair or restrict the free navigation
of a natural waterway. All dealt with an obstruction of
the navigable capacity of a natural watercourse within
the limits of the stream itself; and the language of the
Court as to the broad discretion vested in Congress was
with direct reference to this type of obstruction.
This power of the Federal Government is a trust power
for the benefit of navigation. Certainly when all authority is derived from the States, Congress cannot exercise a higher degree of control than they had. For
example, both New York and Illinois own lands under
the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Waterway. Yet the courts
have determined that neither State may part with such

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Argument for New York.

lands under water to such an extent that the right of
present, or the opportunity to improve future, navigation
is impaired. Grants may be made of lands for the construction of docks and wharves in aid of navigation. In
re Long Sault Development Co., 212 N. Y. 1, s. c., 242
U. S. 272.
If the trust in which the State holds the lands under
water " is governmental and can not be alienated," surely
the powers of the Federal Government, which has no
property right in the beds or waters of navigable streams,
must also and far more clearly be governmental and inalienable.
No question of discretion, however, is really involved
in the transfer of these waters to the Mississippi watershed. If Congress should authorize this, or if the permit
of the Secretary of War of March 3, 1925, should be held
to lawfully permit such a transfer, it would amount to
a complete abdication of the governmental control and
the trust vested in the Federal Government to preserve,
and, if it sees fit, to improve the navigation of the Great
Lakes-St. Lawrence Waterway in the interest of the interstateoand foreign commerce thereon.
The title of New York and its citizens in the waters,
shores and bed of the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Waterway admittedly is subject to the servitude that the Waterway may be improved by Congress for the benefit of navigation. In some situations, improvements might cause
some local or consequential injury to particular property.
Beyond this servitude, the State and its citizens have the
right to expect and demand the natural and undiminished
flow of the watercourse. There is no greater power in
Congress, arising from the Commerce Clause, to dispose
of the waters of the Great Lakes for the real or fancied
benefit of some single section of the Nation, than to dispose of the lands under their navigable waters. Cf. Pol-

lards' Lessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212.

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Michigan.

278 U. S.

Entirely apart from the injury to the navigable waters
over which commerce moves, there is the separate consideration of the damage to the commerce itself. Through
its injunctive power, the Court has forbidden the commission of acts which might hinder the free movement of
commerce among the States. Particularly striking, however, and of great force in the decision of the present
controversy, is the case of Pennsylvaniaand Ohio v. West
Virginia, 262 U. S. 553.
Even if Congress had the power under the Commerce
Clause to deprive the States of their sovereign and proprietary rights in aid of a sanitation and water power
project, no such power has been delegated by it to the
Secretary of War, and the permit of March 3, 1925, can
not be construed as having that effect.
Messrs. William M. Potter, Attorney General of Michigan, and Wilber M. Bruclcer, Assistant Attorney General, with whom Mr. Arthur E. Kidder, Assistant Attorney General, was on the brief, for plaintiff in No. 11
Original.
Congress may not legislate to affect navigation adversely, nor exercise its power over "commerce" f6r the
purposes of sanitation or other non-navigation purposes.
Inasmuch as this diversion creates an obstruction in fact,
it constitutes an obstruction in law to navigable capacity.
Congress has not acted to "affirmatively authorize"
such obstructions unless § 10 of the Act of March 3, 1899,
can be so interpreted. Statutes purporting to affirmatively authorize obstructions to navigation should be
strictly construed.
Section 10 should receive a construction which gives
effect to its plain and unmistakable prohibition against
obstructions to navigable capacity. The general construction of the section is to prohibit the creation of obstructions and even to regulate various acts and things not

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Argument for Michigan.

amounting to an obstruction. Its history shows the plain
intention of Congress to increase its prohibition against
obstructions to navigable capacity, so as to forbid such
obstructions in any navigable waters of the United States,
except by affirmative act of Congress.
By the use of the language " affirmatively authorized,"
Congress contemplated retention of control over obstructions to navigable capacity and not a delegation of power
to the Secretary of War; a positive prohibition is not an
affirmative authorization. Under § 10 an affirmative act
of Congress is necessary as a condition precedent to the
existence of any power in the Secretary of War to authorize obstructions to navigable capacity.
Obstructions to navigable capacity of interstate waters
without authority from Congress have always been unlawful. Where Congress has not authorlized such an obstruction, this Court has assumed jurisdiction to enjoin.
It would be an unconstitutional application of the section to construe it as delegating authority to the Secretary
of War to permit the diversion for purposes of sanitation
or to "affect navigation adversely."
The language of the section is not susceptible of construction by reference to the so-called rules in aid .of
construction used by the Special Master. The rule of
ambiguity is not applicable, the statute being plain and
unambiguous.
The rule of construction based upon the practice of the
War Department is not applicable because the practice has
not been uniform, but has been constantly in doubt from
the beginning, even to the extent exercised.
The decision of this Court in Sanitary Districtv. United
States, 266 U. S. 405, does not construe § 10 as delegating
power to the Secretary of War to affirmatively authorize
an obstruction to the navigable capacity of the Great
Lakes.

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Michigan.

278 U. S.

The fact that Congress did not act to disapprove the
Secretary of War's permit of March 3, 1925, does not constitute an "affirmative act of Congress," nor a delegation
of power by implication; legislative power cannot be implied so as to be exercised by another department of
government.
Affirmative authorization cannot be implied from § 10
by supplying and reading into it the word "unreasonable"
so as to modify the express prohibition against obstructions to navigable capacity.
Section 10 is not in and of itself an affirmative act of
Congress delegating authority to the Secretary of War in
cases under the second and third clauses of that section.
This statute operates prospectively. Maine Water Co. v.
Knickerbocker Co., 99 Me. 473, distinguished.
Section 10 should Yot receive a construction delegating
discretionary power to the Secretary of'War to authorize
obstructions to navigable capacity, because such power
necessarily includes the power of eminent domain which
cannot be delegated unless it affirmatively appears from
action by Congress.
The ordinance of 1787 prohibits interference with the
navigable capacity of the Great Lakes; Congress did not
intend § 10 to modify or repeal the prohibition of this
compact.
To construe § 10 as giving the Secretary of War full
authority to authorize this diversion without an affirmative act of Congress is not justified in light of international relationship with Canada, including treaties and
kindred acts of Congress.
Canada has a right to its portion of international waterways. The Canadian Boundary Waters Treaty of 1909
did not contemplate authorization to make abstractions
affecting international waters. The Treaty bears the same
construction as should be given to § 10.
The Niagara Falls Act does not contemplate extensive
delegated powers to the Secretary of War.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Argument for Michigan.

A general consideration of American-Canadian relationships does not justify such a construction of § 10 as to
authorize obstructions in international waters.
To construe § 10 as delegating power to the Secretary
to permit obstructions to navigable capacity, would render that section void as an unconstitutional delegation
of legislative power.
The permit of March 3, 1925, does not justify the abstraction of these waters as against the State of Michigan. Being but a revocable license, this permit can not
justify the invasion of property rights.
The diversion takes plaintiffs' property without just
compensation, in violation of the Fiftli and Fourteenth
Amendments of the Federal Constitution. The exercise
of power by Congress over navigation is subject to the
limitation of the Fifth Amendment. There must be just
compensation.
Sovereign States own all of the land and waters within
their boundaries as against any other State. The State
of Michigan has also proprietary rights as a riparian
owner. It has the authority to determine for itself such
rules of property as it shall deem expedient with respect to waters within its boundaries, both navigable and
non-navigable, and the ownership of the lands forming
their beds and banks.
It has established the rule that the State is the proprietary owner of the waters of the Great Lakes within
its boundaries and of the lands forming their beds and
banks. In Michigan the title to riparian property outside
the meander line on the Great Lakes is held in trust by
the State for the use of its citizens. The State also has
a right of dockage upon the Great Lakes and connecting
waters, as riparian owner and also as representative of
its people.
The State is entitled to have all the waters coming
naturally to it, yielding only if at all to the demand of

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Wisconsin and other States.

278 U. S.

public, commercial necessity as asserted by appropriate
Congressional action.
Taking is a legal conception. A physical taking from
possession and ejection of the rightful owner are not essential to it. If water is so dammed up or set back upon
or over land so as to destroy its use, there is a taking. If
a riparian owner is deprived of the use and ordinary flow
of water in its natural height by artificial lowering of
levels so as to convert what was water into land area, there
is a taking.
This diversion is not an "incidental damage," nor is it
damnum absque injuria. In each of the cases cited by the
Special Master, the work was for a constitutional purpose,
authorized by an Act of Congress and done by or for the
Federal Government. In each the work caused an
incidental damage."
Messrs. R. T. Jackson, Special Assistant Attorney General of Wisconsin, and Newton D. Baker, Special Assistant
Attorney General of Ohio, with whom Messrs. John W.
Reynolds, Attorney General of Wisconsin, Herman L.
Ekern, Special Assistant Attorney General of Wisconsin,
Herbert H. Naujoks, Assistant Attorney General of Wisconsin, G. A. Youngquist, Attorney General of Minnesota,
Edward C. Turner, Attorney General of Ohio, and T. J.
Baldridge, Attorney General of Pennsylvania, were on
the brief, for plaintiffs in No. 7 Original.
The damages suffered by plaintiffs are:
Damage to navigation and navigation interests; damage
from decay and loss of support to docks, wharves, and
piers; damage to large investments in commercial summer
resorts, private summer cottages, and homes in the shoreline summer resort region of Wisconsin; damage to fishing grounds, spawning beds, hunting grounds, and open
marshes, which were the habitat of valuable wild life;
damage to buildings in the retail and wholesale sections
of Milwaukee by causing pile foundations to decay and

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

•381

Argument for Wisconsin and other States.

give away; damage to the industrial and domestic private
and municipal water supplies along the lakes, necessitating reconstruction at great expense, and increased cost of
pumping; damage also to the proprietary and quasi-sovereign rights of these States as owners of parks and fish
hatcheries on the lake shores and as consumers of lakeborne coal for public buildings and institutions.
Illinois has appropriated a substantial portion of the
public waters which belonged to plaintiffs in their sovereign capacities, and has laid bare submerged lands belonging to them in their quasi-sovereign capacities. It
has appropriated their property and through extra-territorial legislation has taken the property of their citizens
without compensation, and thus has invaded the territorial and quasi-sovereign rights of said States.
The Sanitary District threatens to cause a substantial
increase in these damages.
The diversion and the demand therefor have been and
are solely for sanitary and power purposes. It is injurious to navigation on the Drainage Canal and the Chicago River. If the Illinois waterway is ever completed,
any diversion in excess of 1,000 second feet will not be for
the benefit of navigation on that waterway. The diversion is not in the interests of navigation on the Illinois
River.
It has no relation and is of no value to navigation on
the Mississippi River.
The question of compensation works on the Great Lakes
is not involved in this case, and their effectiveness is not
established.
The plaintiffs present a justiciable controversy and have
the requisite interest to entitle them to invoke the jurisdiction of the Court.
Illinois had no right as against the plaintiffs to divert
the waters of Lake Michigan in the manner and for the
purposes shown, without the consent of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Wisconsin and other States.

278 U. S.

Sanitary District v. United States, 266 U. S. 405; Missouri v. l1inois, 180 U. S. 208; s. c. 200 U. S. 496; Beidler v. Sanitary District, 211 Ill. 628; Illinois Central R. R.
Co. v. Illinois, 146 U. S. 387; Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S.
1; Port of Seattle v. Oregon, 255 U. S. 56; Ohio v. Cleveland, etc. R. R. C6., 94 Oh. St. 61; In re Crawford County
District, 182 Wis. 404; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S.
125; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46; Wyoming v. Colorado, 259 U. S. 419.
The diversion constitutes the taking of plaintiffs' property without due process of law and without just compensation in violation of the Fifth Amendment. The
States have sovereign and proprietary rights over the
navigable waters and the lands underlying them, within
their boundaries, subject to the powers surrendered to
the National Government. Port of Seattle v. Oregon &
Washington R. R. Co., 255 U. S. 56; Shively v. Bowlby,
152 U. S. 1; United States v. Holt State Bank, 270 U. S.
49. The power of the general Government is such power
as has been surrendered to it by the States. The rights of
the States are all the rights which have not been surrendered to the general Government.
The interest of the complaining States is a full proprietary interest as upon a public trust. The nature and extent of this proprietorship and the duty imposed upon
the State as trustee has been frequently examined and
declared by this Court. Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S.
46; Hudson County Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S.
349; North Dakota v. Minnesota, 263 U. S. 361.
Until now, no one has ever suggested that, as a means
adapted to the exercise of its power of regulation, Congress has the power to declare a stretch of dry land thirty
miles long, extending over the Continental Divide, to be
a navigable stream and make its declaration good by affirmatively authorizing the destruction of a natural navigable water in order to transfer its quality of navigability

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Argument for Wisconsin and other States.

to the artificial structure. The Fifth Amendment is
clearly a limitation upon the power of Congress under § 8
or Article I of the Constitution.
Riparian property has, implicit in its location, such a
relation to the stream that it must bear the normal consequences of those improvements in the stream which are
made in order to render it more serviceable for the great
purposes of national commerce. This servitude derives
from the location of the land and is natural and obvious.
But if the land bordering upon the stream be injured by
an impairment of navigability, which does not arise from
an effort to improve the stream and does not in fact improve it, but is for another purpose, as for instance to
provide sanitary appliances for a city or to create an artificial waterway, the damage constitutes a taking because
there is no servitude in the riparian proprietors along
navigable waters to endure a damage to their property
for the benefit of the sanitation of a remote city or for
the creation of an artificial waterway, however useful.
See Fulton Light, etc. Co. v. State, 200 N. Y. 400; Ex
parte Jennings, 6 Cow. 518; Canal Fund Comm'rs v.
Kempshall, 26 Wend. 404; Cooper v. Williams, 5 Ohio
391; Buckingham v. Smith, 10 Ohio 288; In re Dancy
DrainageDistrict, 129 Wis. 129; In re City of New York,
168 N. Y. 134; Smith v. Rochester, 92 N. Y. 464; United
States v. Great Falls Mfg. Co., 112 U. S. 645; Pine v. New
York, 103 Fed. 337 (affirmed, 112 Fed. 98; reversed on
other grounds, 185 U. S. 93); McChord v. High, 40 Ia.
336; Barrett v. Metcalf, 12 Tex. Civ. App. 247.
The distinction suggested controls the decisions of this
Court. It has consistently regarded navigable streams in
their natural condition as the basis for the determination
of the rights both of individual riparian proprietors and
the cases of conflicting sovereignties.
United States v.
Rio Grande Co., 174 U. S. 690; United States v. Lynah,

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Wisconsin and other States.

278 U. S.

188 U. S. 445; United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316;
Sanguinetti v. United States, 264 U. S. 146.
Clearly, if the United States has the power to create
such an artificial waterway, the power is subject to the
limitations of the Fifth Amendment and the damage
caused to a great industrial civilization which has built
itself securely about the Great Lakes could not be called
incidental to the improvement of navigable waters of the
United States.
Congress could not authorize the diversion from the
Great Lakes-St. Lawrence watershed to the Mississippi
watershed. Hudson County Water Co. v. McCarter, 209
U. S. 349; Wyoming v. Colorado, 259 U. S. 419. It may
regulate navigable waters where they are, but not carry
them by artificial channels to other places to be regulated.
This limitation grows stronger with each interest built up
around navigable waters, in their natural condition and
location, until it becomes irresistible in such a case as that
at bar. The only question at issue in Sanitary District of
Chicago v. United States, 266 U. S. 405, was whether the
United States had the power to veto the abstraction of
Lake Michigan water to the prejudice of the navigable
capacity of the Great Lakes.
Authorization of the diversion would constitute a preference of the ports of one State over those of another
in violation of Article I, § 9, Clause 6 of the Constitution.
The power of Congress does not extend to the destruction of navigation or to the creation of obstructions to
navigable capacity. This case represents nothing but the
assertion of a naked right to obstruct or destroy navigation for an unrelated purpose. The distinction was well
pointed out in Woodruff v. Bloomfield Gravel Mining Co.,
18 Fed. 753. The power is limited to the control of the
navigable waters for the purpose of improving and fostering navigation. Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125.
If, however, Congress did have the power to authorize

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Argument for Wisconsin and other States.

the obstruction or destruction of navigation and navigable capacity as an abstract right, it could not exercise that
power in the face of the Fifth Amendment, without
compensation.
If it be assumed that Congress would have the power
to divert water for purposes of navigation, Congress has
no power to authorize the present diversion for purposes
of sanitation and power development. Buckingham v.
Smith, 10 Ohio 288; In re Dancy Drainage District, 129
Wis. 129; Smith v. Rochester, 92 N. Y. 464; Walker v.
Board of Public Works, 16 Ohio 440; United States v.
Great Falls Mfg. Co., 112 U. S. 645; In re City of New
York, 168 N. Y. 134. Miller v. Mayer, 109 U. S. 385,
distinguished.
The power of Congress with respect to the appropriation of these waters for waterpower and sewage disposal
is limited to prohibiting any appropriation which will
destroy or substantially injure any of the navigable waters entrusted to its care, Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S.
125; United States v. Rio Grande Irrigation Co., 174 U.
S. 690. The power to veto does not imply the power to
create or authorize.
It is said that the discharge of this sewage into these
waters without treatment might, and probably would,
create such a pestilential condition as to constitute an
obstruction to navigation thereon. Therefore, it is concluded that Congress may prevent or authorize the removal of this nuisance and obstruction to navigation by
removing the navigable waters themselves. In short,
Chicago, having created, or threatened to create, an
illegal nuisance or obstruction to the navigable waters of
the United States, may, if she will only consent to refrain from this violation of law, dispose of her sewage
at the expense of the plaintiff States. New York v.
New Jersey, 256 U. S.296, distinguished.
Congress has not given permission.
27228'-20-25

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Wisconsin and other States.

278 U. S.

The Secretary of War had no authority under the Act
of March 3, 1899, to permit the diversion. There has
been no practical construction of § 10 of that Act sustaining the construction adopted by the Special Master.
There has been no judicial construction of § 10 sustaining such a power in the Secretary of War. Discussing
Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410; Maine Water Co. v.
Knickerbocker Co., 99 Me. 473; Southern Pacific Co. v.
DredgingCo., 260 U. S. 205; The Plymouth, 275 Fed. 483;
The Douglass, 7 Prob. Div. 157; Sanitary District v.
United States, 266 U. S. 405.
See Hubbard v. Fort, 188 Fed. 987; Koonce, of War
Dept., Lecture before School of Engineers at Fort Humphrey; 27 Op. Atty. Gen. 327.
The Sanitary District has voided the permit of March 3,
1925, by violation of its terms. In any event the permit
does not constitute a defense to this bill.
Construed in the light of recognized rules, the permit
only purports to authorize the Sanitary District to abstract only so much of the water of the Great Lakes as will
not injure their navigable capacity, but not exceeding
8,500 c. s. f. in any event. It requires the assent of the
States affected, not merely Illinois.
We must distinguish between a permissive consent or
waiver of the Secretary of War, and an affirmative act of
the Federal Government itself. His permit was not authority to infringe property rights. Cf. United States v.
Chandler Co., 229 U. S. 53; Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S.
141; Cobb v. Commissioners,202 Ill. 427; In re Crawford
County District, 182 Wis. 404; Attorney General v. Bay
Boom Co., 172 Wis. 363; Hubbard v. Fort, 188 Fed. 987;
Wilson v. Hudson County Water Co., 76 N. J. Eq. 543;
Commonwealth v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 72 Pa. Sup.
Ct. 353; Thlinket Packing Co. v. Harrison Co., 5 Alaska
471; Columbia Salmon Co. v. Berg, 5 Alaska 538; New
York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Argument for Defendants.

Messrs. Cyrus Dietz, James Hamilton Lewis and James
M. Beck, with whom Messrs. Oscar E. Carlstrom,Attorney
General of Illinois, Maclay Hoyne, Attorney for the Sanitary District of Chicago, Hugh S. Johnson, George F. Barrett, Louis J. Behan, and Edmund D. Adcock were on the
brief, for defendants, the State of Illinois and the Sanitary District of Chicago.
Between the finding of the master that defendants' diversion is one of a combination of causes contributing to
injury in a substantial but undetermined amount, and
plaintiffs' prediction thereon of "destruction of their navigation" and of "immense and incalculable loss," there is
a wide difference which must be emphasized in any consideration of law, fact, equity and remedy in this suit.
The history of this canal and of federal, congressional
and administrative action in respect thereof, while found
by the master not to constitute direct congressional authorization of this diversion, nevertheless establishes that,
in its relation to the national system of internal navigation, it is and ever has been a navigation project.
Congress has fostered, aided and encobraged the creation of defendants' canal and diversion, and has used
the result of it.
At every critical point in its history, Congress has protected defendants' canal and diversion from interference.
No legislative or executive instrumentality of the Federal Government charged with responsibility for the
regulation of navigation and commerce has ever recommended or even considered the cessation of defendants'
diversion or its radical reduction. The sole purpose of
such instrumentalities has been to restrain increase of diversion and to avoid ultimate commitment to any permanently increased amount of diversion pending resolution of the present period of uncertainty and development of the sanitary and navigation problems involved.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Defendants.

278 U. S.

While a compelling motive of defendant Sanitary District in making the very great outlay necessary to construct the canal was disposal of sewage, said defendant
was also persuaded to the method adopted by the hope
of opening a great waterway to the Gulf. Defendant
State of Illinois had and has had no other motive than
the latter.
Defendants' canal, with its diversion and other works,
aids navigation in each of the following respects:
(a) It makes possible an adequate water outlet of the
Mississippi Basin to the Great Lakes.
(b) Improves present navigation on the Illinois and
Mississippi Rivers, and is the only reasonably practicable
method of making early and adequate navigation thereon
possible.
(c) The diversion is the only presently practicable
means of preventing conditions at the greatest internal
center of interstate commerce of the United States, which,
through pestilence on land, an unspeakably noisome condition in the Chicago River and Harbor and the lake offshore, and a lethal pollution of the waters of the whole
southern end of Lake Michigan, would stand as such an
obstruction to commerce and navigation as would require
the immediate intervention of federal power.
Use of the diversion for water power is an incidental
and harmless afterthought which does not influence the
diversion or the amount of it.
The present inadequacy of federal and other navigation works in waters connecting defendants' works with
the Gulf of Mexico, does not detract from the advisability
of Congress' preserving the former, nor does it warrant
plaintiffs' insistence on impracticable methods of lockage and other novel provisions for navigation on the
Lakes-to-Gulf Waterway suggested by them.
Defendant Sanitary District has not violated the conditions of all the various permits issued to it since 1903, and

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Argument for Defendants.

even if it had, violation of earlier permits has no effect on
the validity of the existing permit; and whether violation
of conditions of the latter should cause its revocation is
matter of concern to the Secretary who imposed such conditions and not to plaintiffs.
It is shown that compensating works would cure all the
ills complained of more effectively than cessation of diversion. Their consideration is therefore involved in this
case, first, because relief from these ills and nothing more
is the sole supportable prayer of plaintiffs; second, because in such circumstances the cost of them is one measure of damages; and third, because the fact of their
practicability should have a persuasive if not a compelling
bearing on the question of remedy.
Continuation of the diversion will create no new
damage and afford no new precedent. The injunction
sought would cause untold damage to defendants and to
navigation, and subject the lives and health of the inhabitants of the Sanitary District to serious danger. Plaintiffs
themselves recognized its impracticability in oral argument before the master.
The States have no right to sue, and the Court has no
jurisdiction to entertain their suit, because the rights
sought to be vindicated are merely the rights of the people
of these States to navigate national waters; and, since
these rights derive from their citizenship in the United
States and not from citizenship in these States, plaintiffs
could not bring suit on the rights of their citizens without
violating the Eleventh Amendment. New Hampshire v.
Louisiana,108 U. S. 76; Wisconsin v. PelicanIns. Co., 127
U. S. 265; Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S. 1; Massachusetts
v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447.
The suit is, in effect, one to vindicate the freedom of
interstate commerce, and no State has the right to sue
for such purpose, Louisiana v. Texas, supra; Oklahoma
v. Atchison Ry., 222 U. S. 289; Oklahoma v. Gulf, etc.

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Defendants.

278 U. S.

Ry., 220 U. S. 290, and especially here, when the statute
confines its vindication to suit by the Attorney General of
the United States. Minnesota v. Northern Securities
Co., 194 U. S. 46; Southern Pacific v. Dredging Co., 260
U. S. 205; Geddes v. Anaconda Co., 254 U. S. 590; General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore, etc. Ry. Co., 260 U. S.
261; Haycraft v. United States, 22 Wall. 81.
Plaintiffs, showing no special injury different from that
of the public at large, are debarred from suing by traditional principles of equity; they must rely on suits by the
Attorney General, Georgetown v. Alexandria Canal Co.,
12 Pet. 91; Irwin v. Dixon, 9 How. 10; Mississippi, etc.
Ry. v. Ward, 2 Black 485; Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall.
713.
The suits are, in effect, to coerce by decree the legislative
discretion of Congress and the administrative discretion
of the War Department, taking the Court into the province of both of the two great co-ordinate branches of
Government. In a word, what is here sought is decretal
regulation of commerce and a review of a valid administrative determination. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch
137; Georgia v. Stanton, 6 Wall. 50; New Orleans v.
Payne, 147 U. S. 261;Southern Pacific Co. v. Dredging
Co., 260 U. S. 205; Passaic Bridge Cases, 3 Wall., Appendix, 782; Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S.. 496.
Congress has delegated to the Secretary of War power
to authorize this diversion. When so authorized the diversion is lawful and the Secretary's act is immune from
judicial review. This Court has interpreted the statute
in consonance with defendants' contention. Administrative interpretation of the statute has consistently been in
consonance with defendants' contention. The language
and history of the statute support defendants' contention.
The determination of the Secretary of War that the
diversion is not unlawful is not reviewable. Marbury v.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Argument for Defendants.

Madison, 1 Cranch 137; Gaines v. Thompson, 7 Wall. 347;
United States v. CaliforniaLand Co., 148 U. S. 31.
The Court has recognized a distinction between acts in
exercise of discretionary 'powers and acts in respect of
purely ministerial duties. The rule as enunciated in Marbury v. Madison, supra, is that courts may adjudicate in
matters relative to the latter, but never in matters pertaining strictly to the former, and particularly is this true
when the discretionary function is in process of being
exercised. Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet. 524; Decatur
v. Paulding, 14 Pet. 497; United States v. Lamont, 155
U. S. 303; United States v. Black, 128 U. S. 40; Noble v.
Union River Logging R. R. Co., 147 U. S. 165; United
States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378; Mississippi v. Johnson, 4
Wall. 475; United States v. Windom, 137 U. S. 636; Cunningham v. Macon R. R. Co., 109 U. S. 446.
The power granted the Secretary of War is valid. Sanitary District v. United States, 266 U. S. 405; Buttfield v.
Stranahan,192 U. S. 470; West v. Hitchcock, 205 U. S. 80;
Oceanic Steam Navigation Co. v. Stranahan, 214 U. S.
320; Zakoniate v. Wolfe, 226 U. S. 272; Louisville Bridge
Co. v. United States, 242 U. S. 409; Inter-Mountain Rate
Cases, 234 U. S. 476; First Nat'l Bank v. Union Trust Co.,
224 U.- S. 416. See Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S.
366.
A court of equity will intervene in a matter pertaining
to the exercise of a discretionary power only to determine
whether there was power in the officer or fraud in the
party, or whether there was clear, unreasonable, and arbitrary abuse of discretionary power exercised. Ekiu v.
United States, 142 U. S. 651; Chae Chan Pin v. United
States, 130 U. S. 581; United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S.
253; Fok Yung Yo v. United States, 185 U. S. 296; Silberschein v. United States, 266 U. S. 221; United States v.
CaliforniaLand Co., 148 U. S. 31; Foley v. Harrison, 15

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Defendants.

278 U. S.

How. 433; Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72; Smelting Co.
v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330;
Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; Quinby v. Conlan, 104
U. S. 420; Steel v. Smelting. Co., 106 U. S. 447; Lee v.
Johnson, 116 U. S. 48; Wright v. Roseberry, 121 U. S. 488.
Particularly, where the courts are asked to interfere
with lawful administrative determinations regulating
commerce, they have refused because such regulation requires uniformity of decision in order that there may be
strict uniformity of rule. Texas, etc. R. R. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426.
There is a particular indication in this case that Congress intended to make the decision of the Secretary of
War final and to provide against any revision. In the revision of § 7 of the Act of 1890, by § 10 of the Act of
1899, the omission of the words "in such manner as shall
obstruct or impair navigation" is clearly intended to
remove any doubt that the Secretary's determination is
final.
See Miller v. Mayor, 109 U. S. 385; Southern Pacific
Co. v. Dredging Co., 260 U. S. 205; Union Bridge Co. v.
United States, 204 U. S. 364; The Douglass, 7 Prob. Div.
157; Frost v. Railroad Co., 97 Me. 76; Maine Water Co.
v. Knickerbocker Steam Co., 99 Me. 473; The Plymouth,
225 Fed. 483; Louisville Bridge Co. v. United States, 242
U. S. 409.
Regulation of navigation comprises something more
than provision for the flotation of ships. Diversion is
necessary and desirable for the flotation of commerce.
It is also necessary and desirable for the sanitation of
commerce. For whatever reason it was necessary or desirable for navigation, the Secretary had a right under
the statute to consider the reason and decide upon it.
Congress has power to authorize the diversion.. The
diversion does not constitute a taking of private property.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Argument for Defendants.

Plaintiffs have no property in the steamship lanes along
the international boundary. Crandallv. Nevada, 6 Wall.
44; Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Frost v. Washington Ry., 97 Me. 76; Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall.
713; Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269.
The doctrines of international law as applied by this
Court to the relations between States, and not the common law doctrine of riparian rights, is the governing law
of this case, and under those doctrines, plaintiffs have no
property right to have all the water in the lakes flow to
them without the slightest impairment in quantity.
The rules of private property are inapplicable to controveries between States. Georgia v. Tennessee Copper
Co., 206 U. S. 230; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46; Hudson Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349; Rickey Co. v.
Miller & Sax, 218 U. S. 208; Bean v. Morris, 221 U. S. 485.
The doctrines governing suits between States are those
of international law as modified by the decisions of this
Court which adapt them to the relations of the quasisovereign States of the Union under the Constitution.
Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496; North Dakota v. Minnesota, 263 U. S. 365; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125,
s. c. 206 U. S. 46.
At international law, an upper riparian State is under
no servitude to a lower State to permit the water to flow
down unimpaired in quantity. 21 Op. Atty. Gen. 274;
Treaty of May 21, 1906, with Mexico, Arts. IV, V; Minnesota Canal Co. v. Pratt, 101 Minn. 197; Sen. Doe. 104,
56th Cong., 2d Sess.; United States v. Rio Grande Dam.
Co., 9 N. M. 292; Sen. Doc. 154, 57th Cong., 2d Sess.
As between States of the Union, the Court will enforce
the doctrine of comity (see Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S.
125; s. c., 206 U. S. 46) as to the waters of an interstate
stream. Comity means an equitable division of burdens
and benefits in the water and not a right in the lower State

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Defendants.

278 U. S.

to all the water. CorriganTransportationCo. v. Sanitary
District, 137 Fed. 851.
The slight incidental injury to incorporeal rights disclosed by the findings does not constitute a taking of
property.
If it could be said that there was property or a taking,
no injunction could be granted, because there is such
laches and acquiescence that a court of equity would not
be moved to act, and the claimants should be relegated to
their suits for damages, if there are any. New York v.
Pine, 185 U. S. 93; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445;
Northern Pacific R. R. v. Smith, 171 U. S. 260; Los'Angeles v. Water Co., 177 U. S. 558; Sullivan, v. Portland,
etc. R. R. Co., 94 U. S. 806; Bowman v. Wathen, 1 How.
189; Piatt v. Vattier, 9 Pet. 405; Manigault v. Springs,
199 U. S. 473.
It seems almost absurd to say that hindrance to the
progress of steamships in the lakes constitutes appropriation of any property in connection with the claim of injury to shipping. The only other finding of injury that
is in this case is the one relating to the contribution of
defendants' diversion to the claimed injury in connection
with fishing and hunting grounds, the availability and
convenience of beaches at summer resorts and public
parks.
No exceptions were filed to findings, which characterize
the effects of the diversion as an "injury" only without
even a suggestion that there is any appropriation or taking.
The injury mentioned in the findings of the master as
to fishing and hunting grounds and availability and convenience of beaches and summer resorts and public parks,
can relate only to lands which are subject to the servitude of navigation under the Commerce Clause. The
fact that the diversion is from one watershed to another
does not affect the servitude. The power of Congress is
not limited to a particular system of waterways or by the

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Argument for Defendants.

division between watersheds. Stockton v. Baltimore, etc.
R. R. Co., 32 Fed. 9; Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713;
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; South Carolinav. Georgia,
93 U. S. 4; Hudson County Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S.
349; Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496; Economy Light
Co. v. United States, 256 U. S. 113; Sanitary District v.
United States, 266 U. S. 405.
An act of a State may be unlawful either as an unreasonable exercise of sovereignty wanting in the comity due to
sister States, or as a violation of a law of the United
States. But failure in this regard would not constitute
a taking of property.
A State's property right in the water is not such as to
sustain a suit. Hudson Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349.
Running water is not subject to ownership. Geer v.
Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519.
So far as the jus regium applies to the public right of
navigation, it is gone from the State to the United States.
Illinois Central Ry. v. Chicago, 146 U. S. 387; United
States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53.
So far as these States themselves are concerned then,
their property is not taken by our diversion; first, because
in withholding what would otherwise flow to them we
are taking nothing; and second, because neither the corpus
of the water nor the alleged right to have it flow to them
is, of itself, property within the meaning of the Fifth
Amendment.
As for the alleged impairment of public parks, and of
private property, on the lakes, inasmuch as no duty to
let the water flow exists in the relation of the States as
equal sovereigns, our failure to let it flow is not a taking
so far as the plaintiff States are concerned, and we think,
also, so far as their citizens are concerned.
It is only if what we have done be regarded (as the
master has found) as an act under the authority of the
Federal Government, that the Fifth Amendment may be

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Defendants.

278 U. S.

considered at all, and here plaintiffs are between the
horns of a dilemma. If our act is not under such authority, the argument about the Fifth Amendment vanishes. If our act is under federal authority, their whole
case falls and the incidental argument about taking of
property is covered by Sanguinetti v. United States, 264
U. S. 146, and there is no taking involved.
There is no restriction on, the power of Congress to
divert water from one watershed to another. Missouri
v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496; Wyoming v. Colorado, 259 U.
S. 419.
Article I, § 9, Clause 6 of the Constitution does not.
inhibit this diversion because this diversion does not give
preference to the ports of any State.
There is no restriction on the power of Congress to
regulate navigation inherent in the fact that a particular
regulation may destroy navigable capacity and, if there
were, it has no application here because this diversion
does not destroy navigation anywhere.
The diversion is not for the purpose of sanitation only.
It is also for the purposes of navigation and, even if we examine its purpose of sanitation alone, we shall find that
authorization thereof for that purpose was and is a regulation necessary and reasonably related to the protection
of both navigation and interstate commerce on land.
The Secretary of War was justified, under the authority
delegated to him, in considering the beneficial effect upon
interstate commerce of preventing the pollution of the
drinking water supply of Chicago. Bartlett v. Lockwood,
160 U. S. 357; Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308; New
England Co. v. United States, 144 Fed. 932; Kaukauna
Power Co. v. Green Bay, 142 U. S. 254.
The ordinance of 1787 does not restrict the power of
Congress to authorize this diversion. Willamette Bridge
Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1; Withers v. Buckley, 20 How. 84;
Economy Light Co. v. United States, 256 U. S. 120; In re
Southern Wisconsin Power Co., 140 Wis. 245.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Argument for intervening States.

Congress has confined vindication of the Act of March
3, 1899, to suit by the Attorney General of the United
States at the instance of the Secretary of War and certain
of his subordinates.
The United States (or the Secretary of War) and the
City of Chicago are necessary and indispensable parties
to this suit and the case cannot properly proceed without
them. Californiav. Southern Pacific Co., 157 U. S. 229;
Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S. 199.
Defendants do not abandon, and understand that they
do not lose the opportunity, if the occasion arises, later
to press certain defenses which are not argued here because
they are not now material to support the findings arid
conclusions of the Special Master.
The questions raised by the complaint are administrative, legislative and political, and are for this reason beyond decretal regulation. Injunction is an inappropriate
remedy.
Mr. Daniel N. Kirby, with whom Messrs. Percy Saint,
Attorney General of Louisiana, North T. Gentry, Attorney General of Missouri, H. W. Applegate, Attorney
General of Arkansas, Rush H. Knox, Attorney General of
Mississippi, Frank E. Daugherty, Attorney General of
Kentucky, L. D. Smith, Attorney General of Tennessee,
and CorneliusLynde were on the brief, for the intervening
defendants, Mississippi River States.
Due to the economic situation of the Mississippi Valley,
a diversion tending to improve and maintain navigation
on that river, is a matter of recognized national importance.
Plaintiffs' arguments rest on assertions contradicting
the findings of the Special Master. But the findings,
being all supported by evidence, are conclusive. This includes the finding that compensating works could be built
at relatively slight expense.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for intervening States.

278 U. S.

The urgent contentions for plaintiffs, that the permit
of March 3, 1925, was issued solely for the benefit of sani
tation and water power, and had no substantial relation
to navigability, cannot avail to overcome the findings of
the Special Master that the permit does benefit navigability in several substantial respects, and that the permit
therefore rests on an adequate constitutional basis under
the Commerce Clause.
There is, however, an additional and important basis
having a direct relation to navigation, not mentioned
by the Special Master, but shown by the record, upon
which the action of the Secretary of War in issuing the
permit may also rest, viz., the duties to navigate the
Mississippi that are expressly imposed on the Secretary
of War by '§§ 201 and 500, of the Transportation Act of
1920, and by the Inland Waterways Corporation Act of
June 3, 1924 (43 Stat. 360).
The Secretary of War must have authority, as a precedent to the grant of any permit, to determine whether
in fact a particular alteration of navigable capacity benefits navigation as a whole. And such administrative determination is not to be set aside by a court except
because of a clear and indisputable abuse of official discretion. And, on, the facts in the case at bar, the alteration of navigable capacity authorized by the permit of
March 3, 1925, must have been found by the Secretary
to materially benefit navigation in important particulars.
The awarding of the permit raises a presumption that
the work authorized improves the navigable capacity of
the waterway.
The only question before this Court, on any of the
interpretations of § 10 urged by plaintiffs, is whether
there has, in this case, been shown to be such an abuse
of administrative authority as to require this Court to
set it aside. Plaintiffs do not clearly meet this question.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Opinion of the Court.

The Special Master's construction of § 10 of the Act
of 1899 was correct.
The decision of this Court in Sanitary District v.
United States, 266 U. S. 405, has determined the controlling issues of law involved in the merits of this
controversy.
The admitted economic rivalry at the bottom of this
controversy is itself sufficient to justify the present exercise of the congressional power to regulate commerce.
Mr.
Court.

CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

These are amended bills by the States of Wisconsin,
Minnesota, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania and New York,
praying for an injunction against the State of Illinois and
the Sanitary District of Chicago from continuing to withdraw 8,500 cubic feet of water a second from Lake Michigan at Chicago.
The Court referred the cause to Charles Evans Hughes
as a Special Master, with authority to take the evidence,
and to report the same to the Court with his findings of
fact, conclusions of law and recommendations for a
decree, all to be subject to approval or other disposal by
the Court. The Master gave full hearings and filed and
submitted his report November 23, 1927, to which the
complainants duly lodged exceptions, which have been
elaborately argued.
When the first of these bills was filed, there was pending
in this Court an appeal by the Sanitary District of Chicago
from a decree granted at the suit of the United States by
the United States District Court for the Northern District
of Illinois, against a diversion from the Lake in excess of
250,000 cubic feet per minute, or 4,167 cubic feet per
second. This amount had been permitted by the Secretary of War. 'In January, 1925, this Court affirmed the

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

decree, without prejudice to the granting of a further
permit by the Secretary of War according to law. 266
U. S. 405. On March 3, 1925, the Secretary of War after
that decree enlarged the permit for a diversion not to
exceed an annual average of 8,500 cubic feet per second,
upon certain conditions hereafter to be noted.
The amended bills herein averred that the Chicago
diversion had lowered the levels of Lakes Michigan,
Huron, Erie and Ontario, their connecting waterways, and
of the St. Lawrence River above tide-water, not less than
six inches, to the serious injury of the complainant States,
their citizens and property owners; that the acts of the
defendants had never been authorized by Congress but
were violations of the rights of the complainant States
and their people; that the withdrawals of the water from
Lake Michigan were for the purpose of taking care of the
sewage of Chicago and were not justified by any control
Congress had attempted to exercise or could exercise in
interstate commerce over the waters of Lake Michigan;
and that the withdrawals were in palpable violation of the
Act of Congress of March 3, 1899. The bills prayed that
the defendants be enjoined from permanently diverting
water from Lake Michigan or from dumping or draining
sewage into its waterways which would render them unsanitary or obstruct the people of the complainant States
in navigating them.
The State of Illinois filed a demurrer to the bills and the
Sanitary District of Chicago an answer, which included a
motion to dismiss. The States of Missouri, Kentucky,
Tennessee and Louisiana, by leave of Court, became intervening co-defendants, on the same side as Illinois, and
moved to dismiss the bills. The demurrer of Illinois was
overruled and the motions to dismiss were denied, without
prejudice. Thereupon the intervening defendants and
the defendants, the Sanitary District and the State of
Illinois, filed their respective answers. The States of

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

367

Mississippi and Arkansas were also permitted to intervene
as defendants, and adopted the answers of the other interveners. The answers of the defendants denied the injuries
alleged, and averred that authority was given for the
diversion under the acts of the Legislature of Illinois and
under acts of Congress and permits of the Secretary of
War authorized by Congress in the regulation of interstate
commerce. All the answers stressed the point that the
diversion of water from Lake Michigan improved the
navigation of the Mississippi River and was an aid to the
commerce of the Mississippi Valley and sought the preservation of this aid. They also set up the defense of
laches, acquiescence and estoppel, on the ground that the
purposes of the canal and the diversion were known to the
people and the officials of the complainant States, and that
no protest or complaint had been made in their behalf
prior to the filing of the original bills herein.
. The Master has made a comprehensive review of the evidence before him in regard to the history of the canal, the
extent and effect of the diversion, the action of the State
and Federal Governments, the plans for the disposal of
the sewage and waste of Chicago and the other territory
within the Sanitary District, as well as the character and
feasibility of works proposed as a means of compensating
for the lowering of lake levels. From this review we shall
take what will assist us in the consideration of the issues
deemed necessary to be considered on the exceptions to
the report.
We shall first consider in brief the parts taken by Congress and the State of Illinois and their respective agencies
in the construction of the Sanitary District Canal and the
creation of the Lake Michigan diversion.
By the Act of March 30, 1822, c. 14; 3 Stat. 659, Congress authorized Illinois to survey and mark, through the
public lands of the United States, the route of a canal
connecting the Illinois River with Lake Michigan, and
27228-29-26

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

granted certain lands in aid of the project. A further
land grant was made in 1827. The canal was completed
in 1848. The carial crossed the continental divide between
the Chicago and Des Plaines Rivers, on a summit level
eight feet above the Lake, and then paralleled the Des
Plaines River and the Upper Illinois River to La Salle,
Illinois, where it entered the latter stream. The summit
of the canal was supplied with water by pumps located in
a plant on the Chicago River. Originally, only enough
water was pumped to answer the needs of navigation in
the canal, but thereafter, in 1861, the Legislature provided
for improvement in the canal by excavation and a larger
flow of water from Lake Michigan.
Before 1865, the Chicago River, being a sluggish stream
in its lower reaches, had become so offensive because of
receiving the sewage of the rapidly growing city, that for
its immediate relief the municipal authorities and the
canal commissioners agreed to pump water from the river
in excess of the needs of navigation. By 1872 the summit
level of the canal had been lowered, and it was hoped that
this would result in a permanent flow of lake water
through the South Branch of the Chicago River, sufficient
to keep it in good condition, but the plan failed, and the
canal again became grossly polluted.
In 1881, the Illinois Legislature passed a resolution
authorizing the installation of pumps at the northern
terminus of the canal, with a capacity of not less than
1,000 cubic feet a second, to draw water from Lake
Michigan through the Chicago River and the canal.
Pumps were installed and pumping was begun in 1883.
For a few years this afforded sufficient dilution in the
canal because of the high stage of Lake Michigan, but in
1886 the lake level began to fall, and continued to fall
until 1891 when it was two feet lower than when the
pumps were installed. Their capacity was thus reduced
to a little more than 600 cubic feet a second. The nuisance

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Opinion of the Court.

along the canal continued to grow. The Drainage and
Water Supply Commission of the State recommended, as
the most economical method for meeting the requirement,
a discharge into the Des Plaines River through a canal
across the continental divide, providing a waterway of
such dimensions as would furnish ample dilution. The
Commission pointed out that the proposed canal would,
from its necessary dimensions and its regular discharge,
produce a magnificient waterway between Chicago and
the Mississippi River, suitable for navigation of boats
having as much as 2,000 tons burden, and would give
also large water power of great commercial value to the
State.
The Sanitary District was organized under the Illinois
Act of 1889. It was completed in 1890. It embraced an
area of 185 square miles. By later acts it was increased
to approximately 438 square miles, extending from the
Illinois State line on the south and, east to the northern
boundary of Cook County on the north, with about 34
miles of frontage on Lake Michigan, embracing the metropolitan area of Chicago, consisting of a total of fifty-four
cities, towns and villages.
The main drainage canal was begun in 1892, and was
opened in January, 1900. Since that time the flow of the
Chicago River has been reversed-that is, it has been made
to flow away from Lake Michigan toward the Mississippi.,
As originally constructed the canal ended in a non-navigable tail-race. There was no lock at the southwestern
end. But by the Act of May 14, 1903, the Illinois Legislature gave the Sanitary District the power to construct
dams, water wheels, and other works appropriate to render
available the power arising from the water passing through
the main channel and any auxiliary channels thereafter
constructed.
In 1908, the Constitution of Illinois was amended to
authorize the legislature to provide for the construction of

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

a deep waterway or canal, from the water-power plant of
the Sanitary District of Chicago, at or near Lockport, to a
point on the Illinois River at or near Utica, and to provide
that this power might be leased for the benefit of the State
treasury. Meantime, all the sewage in the drainage district, including Evanston, was turned into the main channel, and the water directly abstracted from Lake Michigan
by the Sanitary District was increased from 2,541 cubic
feet a second in 1900 to 5,751 in 1909, to 7,228 in 1916, to
6,888 cubic feet a second in 1926, not including pumpage.
The Sanitary District authorities have expended in the
construction of works for sewage and the deep waterway
canal $109,021,613 including interest on bonds.
In 1888, Congress directed the Secretary of War to make
surveys for a channel improvement in the Illinois and Des
Plaines Rivers. In 1892, Congress appropriated $72,000
to complete the improvement of the harbor at Chicago,
and again $25,000 in 1894. Three engineers appointed by
the Secretary of War reported to him that a diversion of
10,000 cubic feet a second through the Sanitary and Ship
Canal would lower the levels of the Lakes, except Lake
Superior. In 1896, Congress appropriated money for
dredging the Chicago River. The Sanitary District in
that year asked for a permit from the Secretary of War to
enlarge the cross section of the Chicago River, and announced that the work had progressed so far that this must
be done to make available the artificial channel under construction from Robey Street, Chicago, to Lockport,
twenty-eight miles distant. The Secretary of War granted
the permit, but said that this authority was not to be
interpreted as an approval of the plans of the Sanitary
District of Chicago to introduce a current into the Chicago
River; that the United States should not be put to any
expense, and that the authority was to expire by limitation in two years. Other permits relating to the same

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Opinion of the Court.

subject were issued by the same officer in 1897, 1898, and
twice in 1899. The Act of Congress of 1899 amplified the
provisions of an earlier Act of 1890 looking to the regulation, prevention, and removal by Federal authority of
obstructions to navigation and alteration of capacity of the
navigable waters of the United States by enacting Sections
9 and 10 thereof.
Other permits were allowed by the Secretary of Warone on December 5, 1901, allowing a diversion of 250,000
cubic feet per minute throughout the full 24 hours of each
day. And in another instance on January 17, 1903, a
diversion of 350,000 cubic feet per minute until March 31,
1903, was permitted, in order to carry off the accumulations of sewage deposit lining the shores along the city,
with the provision that after that, the flow should be reduced to 250,000 cubic feet per minute as required by the
permit of December, 1901. The Board of Engineers in
1905 reported to Congress that the effect upon the level
of Lake Michigan of withdrawing 10,000 cubic feet per
second for an indefinite period had been the subject of
elaborate investigation and that the conclusion reached
was that the final effect would be to lower the level of the
Lake six inches.
An application for the flow of more water through the
Calumet Sag Channel was declined by the Chief of Engineers, and was refused by the Secretary of War in March,
1907, and as the Sanitary District apparently intended t6
proceed with the work for which a permit had been refused,
the United States brought suit in 1908 to prevent its construction and prevent the increase of the flow. Another
application was refused by the Secretary of War in January, 1913, and there seems to have been another denied
later.
A second bill to enjoin the Sanitary District from a
diversion of more than 250,000 cubic feet per minute or its

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

equivalent 4,167 cubic feet a second of water from Lake
Michigan was filed and was consolidated with the earlier
suit, and after a long delay of six or seven years an oral
opinion was given by Judge Landis of the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois in favor
of the Government. A decree not having been entered
before Judge Landis resigned, a decree was entered by
Judge Carpenter in the case which was affirmed by this
Court in January, 1925. Sanitary District of Chicago v.
United States, 266 U. S. 405.
This Court's decree provided that the defendant, the
Sanitary District of Chicago, its agents, and all other persons acting or claiming or assuming to act under its authority, should be enjoined from diverting or abstracting any
waters from Lake Michigan over and above or in excess
of 250,000 cubic feet per minute, to go into effect in sixty
days, without prejudice to any permit that might be issued
by the Secretary of War according to law.
Immediately after this decision, the Sanitary District
applied to the Secretary of War for permission to divert
10,000 cubic feet a second. The exigency was set out in
the petition. The Secretary of War then issued a permit
on March 3, 1925, which recited that the instrument did
not give any property rights either in real estate or material, or any exclusive privileges; and that it did not authorize any injury to private property or invasion of private
rights, or any infringement of Federal, State or local laws
or regulations, or obviate the necessity of obtaining the
State's assent to the work authorized. It certified that
upon the recommendation of the Chief of Engineers, the
Secretary of War, under Section 10 of the Act of 1899,
authorized the Sanitary District to divert from Lake
Michigan an amount of water not to exceed an annual
average of 8,500 cubic feet per second, the instantaneous
maximum not to exceed 11,000 cubic feet per second, upon
certain conditions.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Opinion of the Court.

The conditions of the permit require the City of Chicago to take immediate steps to carry out sewage treatment by artificial processes, so that before the expiration
of the permit they should provide the equivalent of 100%
treatment of the sewage of 1,200,000 people, or one-third
of the population of the city, and that this should be done
under supervision of the U. S. District Engineer at Chicago, the permit to be revoked if the conditions were not
complied with, and the permit to cease unless renewed on
December 31, 1929. In granting the permit, the Secretary of War expressed the opinion that steps should be
taken to complete the entire work of providing for disposal of all the sewage in ten years. Colonel Schultz,
U. S. District Engineer at Chicago, reported that the conditions of the March 3, 1925, permit have been complied
with, and the Master confirms this in his report.
In providing for the improvement of the channel of the
Illinois River in the Act of January 21, 1927, c. 47; 44 Stat.
1013, Congress declared that nothing in the Act should
be construed as authority for any diversion from Lake
Michigan.
The Master's findings on the subject of injury to the
complainants are in effect as follows:
The diversion which has taken place through the Chicago Drainage Canal has been substantially equivalent to
a diversion of about 8,500 cubic feet a second for .a period
of time sufficient to cause, and it has caused, the lowering
of the mean levels of the Lakes and the connecting waterways, as follows: Lakes Michigan and Huron. approximately 6 inches; Lakes Erie and Ontario approximately
5 inches; and of the connecting rivers, bays and harbors
to the same extent respectively. A diversion of an additional 1,500 cubic feet per second, or a total diversion of
10,000 cubic feet a second would cause an additional lowering in Lakes Michigan and Huron of about one inch, and
in Lakes Erie and Ontario a little less than one inch, with

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

a corresponding additional lowering in the connecting
waterways. The Master also finds that if the diversion at
Chicago were ended, assuming that other diversions remained the same, the mean levels of the lakes and rivers
affected by the Chicago drainage would be raised in the
course of several years (about 5 years in the case of Lakes
Michigan and Huron, and about one year in the case of
Lakes Erie and Ontario) to the same extent as they had
been lowered, respectively, by that diversion.
The Master finds that the damage due to the diversion
at Chicago relates to navigation and commercial interests,
to structures, to the convenience of summer resorts, to
fishing and hunting grounds, to public parks and other
enterprises, and to riparian property generally, but does
not report that injury to agriculture is established. He
says that the Great Lakes and their connecting channels
form a natural highway for transportation, having a
water surface of over 95,000 square miles, and a shore line
of 8,300 miles, extending from Duluth-Superior, and from
Chicago and Gary, to Montreal, at the head of deep-draft
ocean navigation on the St. Lawrence; that there are
approximately 400 harbors on the Great Lakes and connecting channels, of which about 100 have been improved
by the Federal Government; that the latter improvements
consist in the excavation and maintenance of channels
from deep water in the lakes to the harbor entrances; that
inner or local harbors are located inside of the Federal
channels, and the depths in the inner harbors have been
obtained and are maintained at local expense; that inner
harbors are necessary to afford practical navigation; that
extensive and expensive loading, unloading and other terminal facilities have been constructed in these various
ports within the territory of the complainant States, on
the Great Lakes, at local expense.
The Master's report says that the water-borne traffic
on the Great Lakes for the year 1923 consisted of 81,466,902,000 ton-miles of water haul, and that consideration of

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

409

Opinion of the Court.

individual loaded boats and of their respective dimensions
shows that, if water had been available for an additional
six inches of draft, the fleet could have handled for the
year 3,346,000 tons more than was actually transported,
or to put the matter in another light, the season's business
could have been done with the elimination from service
of about 30 freighters of the 2,000-3,000-ton class, and that
the lost tonnage of the total through business of the Lakes
for 1923, incident to a 6-inch deficiency of draft, exceeded
4,000,000 tons, and that the average water-haul rate for
the year was 88 cents per ton.
The great losses to which the complainant States and
their citizens and their property owners have been subjected by the reductions of levels in the various Lakes
and Rivers except Lake Superior are made apparent by
these figures.
The pleadings. question the jurisdiction of this Court
and the sufficiency of the facts set forth in the bills to
constitute a cause of action. These issues, although
raised, are not pressed by the defendants and we concur
with the Master in his conclusion that they are met completely by our previous decisions. Missouri v. Illinois,
180 U. S. 208; s. c. 200 U. S. 496; Hans v. Louisiana,
134 U. S.1; Sanitary District of Chicago v. United States,
266 U. S. 405; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125; s. c.
206 U. S. 46; New York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296;
Wyoming v. Colorado, 259 U. S. 419; North Dakota v.
Minnesota, 263 U. S.365; Pennsylvania v. West Virginia,
262 U. S. 553, 623; 263 U. S. 350; Georgia v. Tennessee
Copper Co., 206 U. S.230, 237.
The controversies have taken a very wide range. The
exact issue is whether the State of Illinois and the Sanitary
District of Chicago by diverting 8,500 cubic feet from the
waters of Lake Michigan have so injured the riparian and
other rights of the complainant States bordering the Great
Lakes and connecting streams by lowering their levels as

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

to justify an injunction to stop this diversion and thus
restore the normal levels. Defendants assert that such a
diversion is the result of Congressional action in the regulation of interstate commerce, that the injury, if any,
resulting is damnum absque injuria to the complaining
States. Those States reply that the regulation of interstate commerce under the Constitution does not authorize
the transfer by Congress of any of the navigable capacity
of the Great Lake System of Waters to the Mississippi
basin, that is from one great watershed to another; second,
that the transfer is contrary to the provision of the Constitution forbidding the preference of the ports of one
State over those of another; and, third, that the injuries
to the complainant States deprive them and their citizens
and property owners of property without due process of
law and of the natural advantages of their position, contrary to their sovereign rights as members of the Union.
If one of these issues is decided in favor of the complaining
States, it ends the case in their favor and the diversion
must be enjoined. But in the view which we take respecting what actually has been done by Congress some
of these objections need not be considered or passed upon.
The complainants, even apart from their constitutional
objections, contend that Congress has not by statute or
otherwise authorized the Lake Michigan diversion, that it
is therefore illegal and that injuries by it to the complainant States and their people should be forbidden by decree
of this Court. The diversion of 8,500 cubic feet a second
is now maintained under a permit of the Secretary of War
of March 3, 1925, acting under Section 10 of the Act of
1899, which it is contended by the complainants vests no
such authority in him. They claim that the diversion is
based on a purpose not to regulate navigation of the Lake,
but merely to get rid of the sewage of Chicago, that this is
a State purpose, not a Federal function, and should be
enjoined to save the rights of complainants. If the view

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Opinion of the Court.

urged by the complainants is right, the necessity for the
use of the 8,500 cubic feet a second to save the health of
the .inhabitants of the Sanitary District will then present
the problem of the power and discretion of a court of
equity to moderate the strict and immediate rights of the
parties complainant to a gradual one which will effect
justice as rapidly as the situation permits. The framing
of the decree will then require the careful consideration
of the Court.
The complainants contend that Congress has given no
authority for the diversion from Lake Michigan, even if it
has power so to do by way of regulating interstate commerce. The defendants rely for this authority on the
permit of the Secretary of War issued by him March 3,
1925, to the Sanitary District shortly after the decree of
this Court in the Sanitary District v. United States, 266
U. S. 405. That decree forbade the diversion of the
waters from Lake Michigan in excess of 4,167 cubic feet a
second, but was made expressly without prejudice to any
permit issued by the Secretary of War according to law.
The complainants contend that the permit which allows a
diversion of 8,500 cubic feet a second is not in regulation
of interstate commerce, is not according to law and should
be declared invalid.
The defendants base their claim of Congressional authority on § 10 of the Act of March 3, 1899, c. 425; 30
Stat. 1121, 1151" That the creation of any obstruction not affirmatively
authorized by Congress, to the navigable capacity of any
of the waters of the United States is hereby prohibited;
and it shall not be lawful to build or commence the building of any wharf, pier, dolphin, boom, weir, breakwater,
bulkhead, jetty, or other structures in any port, roadstead,
haven, harbor, canal, navigable river, or other water of
the United States, outside established harbor lines, or
where no harbor lines have been established, except on

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

plans recommended by the Chief of Engineers and authorized by the Secretary of War; and it shall not be lawful to
excavate or fill, or in any manner to alter or modify .the
course, location, condition, or capacity of, any port, roadstead, haven, harbor, canal, lake, harbor of refuge, or
inclosure within the limits of any breakwater, or of the
channel of any navigable water of the United States,
unless the work has been recommended by the Chief of
Engineers and authorized by the Secretary of War prior
to beginning the same."
The policy carried out in the Act of March 3, 1899, had
been begun in the Act of September 19, 1890, c. 907; 26
Stat. 426, 454, 455. Sections 9 and 10 were the rearranged result of the provisions of Sections 7 and 10 of
the Act of 1890. A new classification was made in Sections 9 and 10 of the Act of 1899, and substituted for Section 10 of the Act of 1890. The latter provided that the
creation of any obstruction to navigable capacity was
prohibited, unless "affirmatively authorized by law" and
this was changed so as to read "affirmatively authorized
by Congress." The change in the words of the first clause
of Section 10 was intended to make mere State authorization inadequate. Sanitary District v. United States, 266
U. S. 405, 429; United States v. Bellingham Bay Boom
Co., 176 U. S.211. It was not intended to override the
authority of the State to put its veto upon the placing of
obstructing structures in navigable waters within a State
and both State and Federal approval were made necessary
in such case. Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S.410. The
words "affirmatively authorized by Congress" should be
construed in the light of the administrative exigencies
which prompted the delegation of authority in the succeeding clauses. Congress, having stated in Section 9 as
to what particular structures its specific consent should be
required, intended to leave to the Secretary of War, acting
on the recommendation of the Chief of Engineers, the

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Opinion of the Court.

determination of what should be approved and authorized
in thb classes of cases described in the second and' third
clauses of Section 10. If the section were construed to
require a special authorization by Congress whenever in
any aspect it might be considered that there was an obstruction to navigable capacity, none of the undertakings
specifically provided for in the second and third clauses of
Section 10 could safely be undertaken without a special
authorization of Congress. We do not think this was
intended. The Supreme Court of Maine in Maine Water
Co. v. Knickerbocker Steam Towage Co., 99 Me. 473, took
the same general view in construction of the same section.
It held that the broad words of the first clause of that section were not intended to limit the second and third
clauses and that Congress's purpose was a direct prohibition of what was forbidden by them except when affirmatively approved by the Chief of Engineers and the Secretary of War. We concur in this view.
The true intent of the Act of Congress was that unreasonable obstructions to navigation and navigable capacity
were to be prohibited, and in the cases described in the
second and third clauses of Section 10, the Secretary df
War, acting on the recommendation of the Chief of Engineers, was authorized to determine what in the particular
cases constituted an unreasonable obstruction.
This construction of Section 10 is sustained by the uniform practice of the War Department for nearly thirty
years. Nothing is more convincing in interpretation of
a doubtful or ambiguous statute. United States v. Minnesota, 270 U. S. 181, 205; Swendig v. Washington Water
Power Co., 265 U. S. 322, 331; Kern River Co. v. United
States, 257 U. S. 147, 154; United States v. Burlington &
Missouri River R. R., 98 U. S. 334, 341; United States v.
Hammers, 221 U. S. 220, 228; Logan v. Davis, 233 U. S.
613, 627.
The practice is shown by the opinion of the Acting
Attorney General, transmitted to the Secretary of War,

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

34 Op. Atty. Gen. 410, 416. The Secretary of War acted
on this view on May 8, 1899, about two months after the
passage of the Act. This was followed by the permits
subsequently granted down to March 3, 1925. The fact
that the Secretary of War acted on this view was made
known to Congress by many reports.
But it is said the construction thus favored would constitute it a delegation by Congress of legislative power
and invalid. We do not think so. The determination of
the amount that could be safely taken from the Lake is
one that is shown by the evidence to be a peculiarly expert
question. It is such a question as this that is naturally
within the executive function that can be deputed by
Congress. Southern Pacific Co. v. Olympian Dredging
Co., 260 U. S. 205, 208; Sanitary District v. United States,
266 U. S. 405, 428; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 693;
Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470, 496; Union Bridge
Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364, 386; Monongahela
Bridge Co. v. United States, 216 U. S. 177, 192; Louisville Bridge Co. v. United States, 242 U. S. 409, 424;
J. W. Hampton, Jr. & Co. v. United States, 276 U. S.
394, 407.
The construction of Section 10 of the Act of March 3,
1899, was settled by this Court in the decision of the first
Chicago Drainage Canal case in 266 U. S. 405, 429. The
decision there reached and the decree entered can not be
sustained, except on the theory that the Court decided
first that Congress had exercised the power to prevent
injury to the navigability of Lake Michigan and the other
lakes and rivers in the Great Lakes watershed, and second
that it could properly and validly confer the administrative function of passing on the issue of unlawful injury
or otherwise on the Secretary of War, and that it had
done so. To give any other interpretation would necessarily be at variance with our previous decision.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Opinion of the Court.

It is further argued by complainants that while the
power of Congress extends to the protection and improvement of navigation, it does not extend to its destruction
or to the creation of obstructions to navigable capacity.
This Court has said that while Congress in the exercise
of its power may adopt any means having some positive
relation to the control of navigation and not otherwise
inconsistent with the Constitution United States v.
Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53, 62, it may not arbitrarily destroy or impair the rights of riparian owiiers
by legislation which has no real or substantial relation
to the control of navigation or appropriateness to that
end. United States v. River Rouge Improvement Co.,
269 U. S. 411, 419; Port of Seattle v. Oregon & Washington R. R., 255 U. S. 56, 63.
So complainants urge that the diversion here is for
purposes of sanitation and development of. power only,
and therefore that it lies outside the power confided by
Congress to the Secretary of War. The Master says:
" There is no doubt that the diversion is primarily for
the purposes of sanitation. Whatever may be said as to
the service of the diverted water in relation to a waterway to the Mississippi, or as to the possible benefit of its
contribution to the navigation of that river at low water
stages, it remains true that the disposition of Chicago's
sewage has been the dominant factor in the promotion,
maintenance and development of the enterprise by the
State of Illinois and the Sanitary District. The purpose
of utilizing the flow through the drainage canal to develop
power is also undoubtedly present, although subordinated
to the exigency of sanitation. So far as the diverted water
is used for the development of power, the use is merely
incidental. This Court, in Sanitary District v. United
States, 266 U. S.405, 424, in describing the channel, looked
upon its interest to the Sanitary District 'primarily as a

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court

278 U. S.

means to dispose of the sewage of Chicago , although it
was also 'an object of attention to the United States as
opening water communication between the Great Lakes
and the Mississippi and the Gulf.'"
The Master then considered whether there was any
express authorization of the diversion now permitted,
except under Sections 9 and 10 of the Act of March 3,
1899, already referred to. On this subject he said:
" Consideration by Congress of the advisability of the
proposed waterway from Lake Michigan to the Illinois
and Mississippi Rivers, demands by Congress for surveys,
plans and estimates, the establishment of project depths,
and appropriations for specified purposes, did not in my
opinion constitute direct authority for the diversion in
question, however that diversion, or the diversion of some
quantity of water from Lake Michigan, might fit into an
ultimate plan."
This conclusion of the Master is fully supported by
reference to the already cited Rivers and Harbors Appropriation Act of 1927 declaring that nothing therein should
authorize any Lake Michigan diversion.
The Master also says that appropriations for widening
and deepening the Chicago River, and the co6peration
with the Sanitary District for several years in that improvement, merely committed Congress to the work as
thus actually prescribed, but did not go further, whatever
the advantages of that work in connection with the purposes of the Sanitary District's Canal.
He then proceeds:
"There is nothing in any of the acts of Congress upon
which the defendants rely specifying any particular quantity of water which could be diverted and it could hardly
be considered a reasonable contention that the acts of
Congress justified any diversion of water from Lake
Michigan that the State of Illinois and the Sanitary
District might see fit to make. It is manifest that it was

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

Opinion of the Court.

the view of the War Department that Congress had not
actea directly and whatever the Department did was
subject to such action as Congress might take."
He continues:
"This understanding that Congress has not yet acted
directly so as to authorize the diversion in question has
continued. It was in this view that the United States
prosecuted its suit to decree in this Court to enjoin the
defendants from taking more water from Lake Michigan
than the Secretary of War had allowed."
In this conclusion, which the Court confirms, we are
therefore remitted solely to the effect and operation of
the permit of 1925 as authority for the maintenance of the
diversion.
The normal power of the Secretary of War under Section 10 of the Act of March 3, 1899, is to maintain the
navigable capacity of Lake Michigan and not to restrict
it or destroy it by diversions. This is what the Secretaries
of War and the Chiefs of Engineers were trying to do in
the interval between 1896 and 1907 and 1913 when the
applications for 10,000 cubic feet a second were denied
by the successive Secretaries and in 1908 a suit was
brought by the United States to enjoin a flow beyond
4,167 cubic feet a second. Then pending the suit, the
Sanitary District disobeyed the restriction of the Secretary of War's permit and increased the diversion to 8,500
cubic feet in order to dispose of the sewage of that District.
Had an injunction then issued and been enforced, the
Port of Chicago almost immediately would have become
practically unusable because of the deposit of sewage without a sufficient flow of water through the Canal to dilute
the sewage and carry it away. In the nature of things it
was not practicable to stop the deposit without substituting some other means of disposal. This situation gave
rise to an exigency which the Secretary, in the interest of
navigation and its protection, met by issuing a temporary
27228'-29-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

permit intended to sanction for the time being a sufficient
diversion to avoid interference with navigation in the Port
of Chicago. See New York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296,
307, 308. The elimination and prevention of this interference was the sole justification for expanding the prior
permit, the limitations of which had been disregarded by
the Sanitary District. Merely to aid the District in disposing of its sewage was not a justification, considering
the limited scope of the Secretary's authority. He could
not make mere local sanitation a basis for a continuing
diversion. Accordingly he made the permit of March 3,
1925, both temporary and conditional-temporary in that
it was limited in duration and revocable at will, and conditional in that it was made to depend on the adoption
and carrying out by the District of other plans for
disposing of the sewage.
It will be perceived that the interference which was the
basis of the Secretary's permit, and which the latter was
intended to eliminate, resulted directly from the failure
of the Sanitary District to take care of its sewage in some
way other than by promoting or continuing the existing
diversion. It may be that some flow from the Lake is
necessary to keep up navigation in the Chicago River,
which really is part of the Port of Chicago, but that
amount is negligible as compared with 8,500 second feet
now being diverted. Hence, beyond that negligible
quantity, the validity of the Secretary's permit derives its
support entirely from a situation produced by the Sanitary District in violation of the complainants' rights;
and but for that support complainants might properly
press for an immediate shutting down by injunction of
the diversion, save any small part needed to maintain
navigation in the river. In these circumstances we think
they are entitled to a decree which will be effective in
bringing that violation and the unwarranted part of the
diversion to an end. But in keeping with the principles

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
367

, Opinion of the Court.

on which courts of equity condition their relief, and by
way of avoiding any unnecessary hazard to the health of
the people of that section, our decree should be so framed
as to accord to the Sanitary District a reasonably practicable time within which to provide some other means of
disposing of the sewage, reducing the diversion as the
artificial disposition of the sewage increases from time to
time, until it is entirely disposed of thereby, when there
shall be a final, permanent operative and effective
injunction.
It is very apparent from the report of the Master and
from the state legislation that the Legislature of Illinois
and the Sanitary District have for a long period been
strongly insistent upon such a use of the waters of Lake
Michigan as would dispose of the sewage of the District
and incidentally furnish a navigable water route from
Lake Michigan to the Mississippi basin; and that not
until 1903 was the attention of the public, and especially
of the District authorities, drawn to the fact that a diversion like that now used would lower the Lake levels with
injurious consequences to the Great Lakes navigation and
to the complainant States. The Secretary of War and
the Chief of Engineers in 1907 refused a permit by which
there would be more than 4,167 feet a second diverted.
Advised that the District authorities proposed to ignore
that limitation, the United States brought suit against
the authorities of the District to enjoin any diversion in
excess of that quantity, as fixed in an earlier permit.
Another application for enlargement was made to Secretary of War Stimson in 1913 and was rejected. For several years, including the inexcusable delays made possible
by the failure of the Federal Court in Chicago to render
a decision in the suit brought by the United States, the
District authorities have been maintaining the diversion
of 8,500 cubic feet per second or more on the plea of presering the health of the District. Putting this plea

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

forward has tended materially to hamper and obstruct the
remedy to which the complainants are entitled in vindication of their rights, riparian and other.
The intervening States on the same side with Illinois,
in seeking a recognition of asserted rights in the navigation of the Mississippi, have answered denying the rights
of the complainants to an injunction. They really seek
affirmatively to preserve the diversion from Lake Michigan in the interest of such navigation and interstate commerce though they have made no express prayer therefor.
In our view of the permit of March 3, 1925, and in the
absence of direct 'authority from Congress for a waterway
from Lake Michigan to the Mississippi, they show no
rightful interest in the maintenance of the diversion.
Their motions to dismiss the bills are overruled and so far
as their answer may suggest affirmative relief, it is denied.
In increasing the diversion from 4,167 cubic feet a second to 8,500, the Sanitary District defied the authority of
the National Government resting in the Secretary of War.
And in so far as the prior diversion was not for the purposes of maintaining navigation in the Chicago River it
was without any legal basis, because made for an inadmissible purpose. It therefore is the duty of this Court by
an appropriate decree to compel the reduction of the diversion to a point where it rests on a legal basis and thus to
restore the navigable capacity of Lake Michigan to its
proper level. The Sanitary District authorities, relying
on the argument with reference to the health of its people,
have much too long delayed the needed substitution of
suitable sewage plants as a means of avoiding the diversion
in the future. Therefore they can not now complain if an
immediately heavy burden is placed upon the District
because of their attitude and course. The situation requires the District to devise proper methods for providing
sufficient money and to construct and put in operation
with all reasonable expedition adequate plants for thd dis-

EXCHANGE TRUST CO. v. DRAINAGE DIST. 421
367

Syllabus.

position of the sewage through other means than the Lake
diversion.
Though the restoration of just rights to the complainants will be gradual instead of immediate it must be continuous and as speedy as practicable, and must include
everything that is essential to an effective project.
The Court expresses its obligation to the Master for his
useful, fair, and comprehensive report.
To determine the practical measures needed to effect the
object just stated and the period required for their completion there will be need for the examination of experts;
and the appropriate provisions of the necessary decree will
require careful consideration. For this reason, the case
will be again referred to the Master for a further examination into the questions indicated. He will be authorized
and directed to hear witnesses presented by each of the
parties, and to call witnesses of his own selection, should
he deem it necessary to do so, and then with all convenient speed to make report of his conclusions and of a form
of decree.
It is so ordered.
EXCHANGE TRUST COMPANY v. DRAINAGE DISTRICT NO. 7, POINSETT COUNTY, ARKANSAS,
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 114. Argued January 9, 1929.-Decided January 21, 1929.
1. Irregularties in proceedings for the annexation of new lands to a
special improvement district and for assessment of benefits may be
cured by an act of the legislature confirming a reassessment. P. 424.
2. A settler under the homestead law who invited and secured
an annexation of his land to a state drainage district and
afterwards obtained his equitable title through a final entry of the

