LADEW v. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
218 U. S.

Syllabus.

were still in law the owners of these claims on the United
States, and all interest therein passed under the bankrupt
act to their general creditors, to be disposed of as directed
by the bankrupt act, just as if there had been no attempt
to transfer them to the banks. Any other holding will
effect a repeal of the statute by mere judicial construction
in disregard of the plain, unequivocal intent of Congress
as indicated by the statute.
The judgment as to each bank is
Affirmed.

LADEW v. TENNESSEE COPPER COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 495. Argued October 19, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

Plaintiffs, citizens of States other than that of the defendant, brought
suit.against the defendants in the Circuit Court of the United States
for a district of which neither plaintiffs nor this defendant were inhabitants to compel defendants to abate a nuisance carried on in
that district and which was causing damage to plaintiffs' property
in another State and in which neither they nor the defendant re,sided; the Circuit Court dismissed as to this defendant for want of
jurisdiction, neither it nor the plaintiffs being inhabitants of that
district. In affirming judgment held that:
Diversity of citizenship-nothing nore appearing-will not give the
Circuit Court jurisdiction to render judgment in personam Where
*neither plaintiff nor defendant is an inhabitant of the district in
which the suit is brought and the 'defendant appears specially and
objects to the jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction given to the Circuit Court by § 8 of the-act of March 3,
1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, of suits to enforce legal or equitable
claims to real or personal property within the. district, even if the
parties are not inhabitants of the district, does not extend to suits

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellants.

218 U. S.

to compel the owner of real estate in the district to abate a nuisance
maintained thereon. Such a cause of action is not a claim or lien
upon the property.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts is determined by acts of Congress enacted in pursuance of the Constitution, and even if the
jurisdiction already granted can be extended by Congress, those
courts cannot, until such legislation is enacted, exercise jurisdiction
not yet conferred upon them.
179 Fed. Rep. 245, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry B. Closson, with whom Mr. Charles Seymour,
Mr. Charles H. Sheild and Mr. Benjamin F. Washer were
on the brief, for appellants:
The decree dismissing the suit against the Tennessee
Copper Company is a final decree from which an appeal
will lie. Hohorst v. Hamburg-American Packet Co., 148
U. S. 262, distinguished, and see Withenbury v. United
States, 5 Wall. 819; Hill v. Chicago & Evanston R. R. Co.,
140 U. S. 52.
A bill in equity to abate a nuisance is a local suit which
can be brought only iii the district in which the nuisance
to be abated is situated. Mississippi & Missouri R. R.
Co..v. Ward, 2 Black, 485; Home v. Buffalo, 49 Hun, 76.
Unless the court below has jurisdiction to. abate the
nuisance maintained by this defendant, no Federal court
has jurisdiction to do it, although the controversy is
wholly between citizens of different States. Greely v.
Low, 155 U. S. 67.
If a bill in equity to abate a nuisance maintained upon
real property within the jurisdiction of the court can be
described- as a suit to enforce a claim to or against that
property, there can be no question of the jurisdiction of
the Federal court of the district in which the nuisance is
situated to entertain the suit even as against a non-

LADEW v. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
218 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

resident defendant. Rev. Stat., § 738; Act of March 3,
1875, § 8; 1 Rose's Code of Fed. Proc., § 856, note a,
p. 798; Dick v. Foraker, 155 U. S. 404.
A bill in equity to procure the abatement of a nuisance
which is not only upon but is itself real property within
the jurisdiction of the court is, within the precise letter
and spirit of the statute, a suit to enforce a claim to or
against real property within the district. Rex v. Rosewell,
2 Salk. 459, and cases passim, cited under "Abatement
of Nuisances," 1 Amer. & Eng. Ency. of Law, pp. 63,
79 et seq., People v. Gold Run Mining Co., 66 California,
138; People v. Vanderbilt, 26 N. Y. 287; Horne v. Buffalo,
49. Hun, 76; 1 Amer. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed., p. 76.
The test whether a local action comes within the purview of the language of the act or not, is whether the
relief required can be given without a judgment in personam against an absent defendant. York County Savings Bank v. Abbott, 139 Fed. Rep. 988.
The bill in the present suit is one to procure the abatement of a nuisance upon real property and is itself a claim
against real property within the jurisdiction of the court,
and. therefore one of which the court has jurisdiction.
Under the allegations of fact it must here be taken as
true that these furnaces, smelters and ovens, emitting
gases which destroy the timber upon the adjacent lands,
are, as a matter of law, nuisances which the court has
jurisdiction to abate through its own officers, if need be,
in the manner prayed. Campbell v. Seaman, 63 N. Y.
568; St. Helens Smelting Co.yv. Tipping, 11 H. L. Cases,
642; American Smelting Co. v. Godfrey, 158 Fed. Rep. 225.
Mr. John H. Frantz, with whom Mr. Howard Cornick
and Mr. Martin Vogel were on the brief, for appellee:
The appeal is premature, and, therefore, the court is
without jurisdiction to hear and determine the same.
Hohorst v. Hamburg-American Packet Co., 148 U. S. 262;

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellee.

218 U. S.

Hill v. Chicago & Evanston R. R. Co., 140 U. S. 52, distinguished, and see Bank of Rondout v. Smith, 156 U. S.
330; Ex parte National Enameling Co., 201 U. S. 160.
The gravamen of the bill is negligent and improper
operation, and the burden of the prayer is for an injunction inhibiting and restraining the operation of the furnaces, smelters, etc., in the manner in which they are
now being operated. Such a proceeding is not a local
action.
A writ of injunction may be defined as a judicial process,
operating in personam, and requirihg the person to whom
it is directed to do or refrain from doing a particular
thing. 1 Joyce on Injunctions, p. 4; 1 High on Injunctions, 4th ed., 2; Jereney's Eq., p. 307; Childressv. Perkins,
Cooke (Tenn.), 2; 16 Amer. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 342;
Joyce on Law of Nuisances, § 12; 1 Wood on Nuisances,
3d ed., § 77; Barclay v. Commonwealth, 25 Pa. St. 503.
Even if this proceeding could be regarded as a proceeding in rem or a local action, this would not suffice to
bring it within the provisions of the statute under consideration. Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S. 389, 406.
Complainants have no legal or equitable lien upon or
claim to property which they are seeking to assert in this
case. The statute under consideration has no reference
to the assertion of a right not coupled with an interest
in the property, or at least, a claim of interest in the property.
No joint action can be maintained against two separate defendants, each owning separate lands, when the
sole purpose of that a6tion is to fix a legal or equitable
lien upon or claim to respective properties of the defendants, unless there be an allegation that each defendant is
interested in the title to the lands of the other defendant.
There is no such allegation in the bill in this cause.
•There could be no enforcement of a lien upon such a
description of land as in the bill. No jurisdiction attaches

LADEW t,. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by virtue of any lien or claim to defendants' property.
It is conceded that no jurisdiction would exist otherwise.
The Tennessee Copper Company is a resident of New
Jersey, and the complainants are residents of New York
and West Virginia. Shaw v. Quincy Mining Co., 145 U. S.
444; So. Pac. Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This action in equity was brought by the present appellants, citizens of New York and of West Virginia,
against the appellees, the Tennessee Copper Company, a
corporation of New Jersey, and' the Ducktown Sulphur,
Copper and Iron Company, Limited, a British corporation-each of those corporations having its chief office
and place of business in Polk County, Tennessee, within
the territorial jurisdiction of the Circuit' Court.
The business of each defendant is the mining, manufacturing and producing of copper and sulphur ores and
products. The plaintiffs are the joint owners in fee and
in possession of more than 6,000 acres of land in Fannin,
Gilmer and Pickens Counties, Georgia, and have the
timber rights in other lands, exceeding 18,000 acres, in
the same counties, just beyond the boundary line between
Tennessee and Georgia. All these lands are devoted to
forestry, have been and are of the greatest value, and
contain various kinds of valuable trees. The plaintiffs
employ the forests in the production of timber and bark.
But for the acts of the defendants, as hereinafter stated,
the lands would be sufficient to afford a contiriuous supply of lumber and bark in large quantities And for an indefinite period in the future. The lands have upon them
forests and trees' of different growth, which must receive
attention and treatment in order' to meet the -future
needs of forestry and bark industry. Before the commission by the defendants of the acts complained of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

forest and timber rights and holdings of plaintiffs approached $100,000 in value, and the damage alleged to be
committed by the defendants will exceed $50,000.
The defendants conduct their business in Tennessee
within a short distance of pIaintiffs' lands. Recently,
before the bringing of this action, the defendants erected,
or caused to be constructed, and still own, operate and
control furnaces, smelters and ovens, all in close proximity to one another, upon lands owned or leased by
them in Polk County, Tennessee. In view of those facts
the plaintiffs allege that both in law and equity they are
possessed of "a right and claim in, to and against the
lands and tenements of the defendants in the nature of
an easement thereupon that the same shall not be used
in a manner to injure or destroy the said lands and forests [in Georgia] of your orators adjacent thereto as aforesaid. But the defendants, by means of said furnaces,
smelters and ovens maintained-by them uponl their lands
as aforesaid, and in other ways, are, and for some time
past have been, generating and causing to be discharged
into the atmosphere, vast quantities of smoke, sulphur
fumes and noxious and poisonous vapors and gases and
other deleterious substances. Within a short distance
from the works and property of the defendants the said
smoke, fumes, vapors and gases and other deleterious
substances so generated by each respectively inextricably
mingle and are together discharged upon the lands and
forests and trees of your orators, and as a result thereof
great damage has been done and injury is threatened
as hereinafter appears."
The plaintiffs further allege that said fumes, gases
and vapors have already destroyed a considerable portion of their forests and trees; that unless they receive
the relief asked their entire holdings will be destroyed,
and their property and interests rendered valueless; that
such fumes, gases and vapors have descended upon

LADEW v. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the .Court.

plaintiffs' forests and trees, killing the trees and ruining
the timber; that the destruction so created and produced is constantly increasing in extent, and includes
forests and trees of every variety and species, and in all
stages of growth and development; that the taller trees
that serve to protect the sr taller growth have been the
first to suffer damage and destruction; that the enlargement of the zone of destruction is due to the fact that
the death of the trees already brought about permits
the smoke, fumes, gases and vapors that are constantly
increasing in quantity to travel farther before being absorbed; that the forests and timber, destroyed as stated,
would have made good lumber, railroad ties, and tanbark, and could have been utilized for purposes of trade
and commerce; and that the acts of the defendants, unless restrained by the court, will destroy all the forests,
old and young, as well as the timber and bark rights of
the plaintiffs.
The bill also alleges that the smoke, fumes, gases and
vapors so generated and discharged on the property of
the plaintiffs will destroy all forms of plant and tree life,
including vegetables, crops, grasses and orchards; that
by such destruction the soil loses all moisture and compactness, and, being washed away by the rains, the remaining part of plaintiffs' lands will be rendered bare
and barren; that the smoke, fumes, gases and vapors are
unwholesome and injurious to the life and health of all
coming in contact with them, and render the lards unfit
for occupancy; and that the plaintiffs, as well as the
Bureau of Forestry of the United States, have frequently
demanded that defendants abate the above nuisance,
but the latter have refused to obey such demand, leaving plaintiffs no other alternative except to seek an injunction, to prevent the above wrongs.
The specific relief, asked is a (lecr'e that the defendants
shall not use their property in Tennessee; so as to destroy

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

or injure the plaintiffs' lands and forests in Georgia; that
the alleged nuisance maintained by defendants be abated
under the direction of the court through its own officers
or otherwise as shall seem suitable and right; and that
the defendants be enjoined "from maintaining, operating, directing or permitting up~n their land or premises
[in Tennessee] the operation or maintenance of any oven,
roast heap, pit, furnace or appliance generating or giving
forth any of the smoke, gases, fumes or vapors hereinbefore complained of, or otherwise generating, producing or causing any foul or dense or copper or sulphurous
smoke, or any noxious, poisonous, unhealthy or disagreeable, or in any manner injurious vapor, gas, fume or odor
upon the territory or lands of your orators" [in Georgia].
Such was the case made by the plaintiffs' allegations
in their bill.
The summons was served in Polk County, Tennessee,
on the General Manager of the Tennessee Copper Company, the highest officer of that corporation; on the British
corporation, by leaving a copy with its Acting General
Manager in the same county. Each defendant corporation has, as already indicated, its main office and is conducting its business in that county.
The Copper Company, the New Jersey corporation,
appeared for the special and sole purpose of objecting
to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. The British
corporation appeared for the special purpose only of entering a motion to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction as to it, as well as for want of proper parties. The
court, speaking by Judge Sanford, who delivered a wellconsidered opinion in the case, sustained the motion of
the Tennessee Copper Company, and dismissed the bill as
to it. The motion of the British company was overruled,
the court holding that it had jurisdiction over the alien
corporation. Ladew v. Tennessee Copper Co., 179 Fed.
Rep. 245. There was no appeal by the latter corporation.

LADEW v. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
218 U. S.

3f35

Opinion of the Court.

The present appeal was taken only from that part of
the decree dismissing the bill as to the New Jersey cor' poration.
The plaintiffs, we have seen, are citizens of New York
and West Virginia, while the Tennessee Copper Company is a corporation of New Jersey. But under the
statutes regulating the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts
of the United States, diversity of citizenship-nothing
more appearing-will not give authority to Circuit Courts
of the United States to render a judgment in personam
where, as here, neither the plaintiffs nor the defendants
are inhabitants of the district in which the suit was
brought, and where the defendant appears specially and
objects to jurisdiction being exercised over it. The defendant corporation, not an inhabitant of the district
where suit is brought, cannot be compelled against its
will to submit to such jurisdiction for the purposes merely
of a personal judgment. 18 Stat. 470, March 3, 1875,
§1, c. 137, as amended and corrected in 1887 and 1888;
March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24 Stat. 552; August 13, 1888, c. 866,
25 Stat. 433; Macon Grocery Co. v. Atlantic Coast Line,
215 U. S. 501, 508, 510, and authoritiesthere cited.
The plaintiffs insist, however, that jurisdiction can be
sustained by § 8 of the act of March 3d, 1875, determining the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United
States. 18 Stat. 470, c. 137. The first section of that
act, as. amended by the above act of 1888, 25 Stat. 433,
correcting the enrollment of the act of March 3d, 1887
(24 Stat. 552, c. 373), provides that a suit founded only
on the fact of the diversity of citizenship between the
parties, shall be brought only in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant. But the
plaintiffs contend that that section is not to be interpreted apart from the other sections of the same act.
Section 8 has relation to the first section and contains
provisions that refer. to an exceptional class of cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

The two sections relate to the same general subject, and
must be regarded as embodying a scheme of jurisdiction.
Considered together, they mean that, if jurisdiction is
founded only on diversity of citizenship, the Circuit
Court may, without its process being personally served
on the defendant, within its jurisdiction, exert the juisdiction given by the eighth section in the particular cases
and for the special purposes therein specified-its power
in such cases being of course restricted as in that section
prescribed. Such is the argument of the plaintiffs.
The eighth Section of the act of 1875 provides: "That
when in any suit commenced in any circuit court of the
United States, to enforce any legal or equitable lien upon,
or claim to, or to remove any incumbrance or lien or
cloud upon the title to, real or personal property within
the district where such suit is brought, one or more of the
defendants therein shall not be an inhabitant of, or found
within, the said district; or shall not voluntarily appear
thereto, it shall be lawful for the court to make an order
directing such absent defendant or defendants to appear,
plead, answer or demur, by a day certain to be designated, which order shall be served on such absent de:
,fendant or defendants, if practicable, wherever found,
and also upon the person or persons in possession or
,charge of said property, if any there be; or where such
personal service upon such absent defendant or defendants
is not practicable, such order -shall be published in such
manier as the court may direct, not less than once. a
week for six consecutive weeks; and in case such absent
defendant shall not appear, plead, answer, or demur
within the time so limited, or within some further time
to be allowed by the court, in its discretion, and upon.
proof of the service or publication of said order, and of
the performance of the directions contained .in the same,
it shall be lawful for the court to entertain jurisdiction,
and proceed to the hearing and adjudication of such suit

LADEW v. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the same manner as if such absent defendant had
been served with process within the said district; but
said adjudication shall, as regards said absent defendant
or defendants without appearance, affect only the propert'y which shall have been the subject of the suit and
under the jurisdiction -of. the court therein, within such
district. . .
Substantially, the contentions of plaintiffs are that
the mode in which the defendant uses its real property
in Tennessee, within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
creates a nuisance injuriously affecting their property
near by in the State of Georgia; that, according to the
settled principles of law, they are entitled to have the
defendant corporation restrained from so using its Tennessee property as to injure their property in Georgia;
and that the right to such protection, against the effects
of, that nuisance, as maintained by the defendant in
Tennessee, should, within the fair meaning of, the act
of 1875, be deemed a "claim to . . . real property . . . within the district where such suit is
brought "-such property, it is alleged, being so used in
Tennessee as to create a nuisance, causing injury to the
plaintiffs' property in Georgia.
Manifestly, unless the plaintiffs can sustain this proposition and bring their-case within the eighth section of the
4ct of 1875, there is no ground whatever to maintain the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as to the defendant corporation; certainly not, as we have said, for the purposes
of a personal judgment against the defendant company,
since neither the plaintiffs nor the defendant are inhabitants of the district in which the suit was brought, and
the defendant corporation refuses to voluntarily appear
and submit to the jurisdiction of the court.'
We are of opinion that under no reasonable interpretation of the eighth section can the plaintiffs' case be held
to belong to the class of exceptional cases mentioned in

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U.S.

that section. In no just sense can their cause of action
be said to constitute "a claim to" real property in the
district. They cannot be regarded as having a "claim
to" the leased land or premises on which the alleged
nuisance is maintained. It may be that what the defendant is charged with doing creates a nuisance. It may
also be that the defendant company wrongfully uses and
has used its property in Tennessee in such way as to
seriously injure the property of plaintiffs, near by in
Georgia, and that plaintiffs are legally entitled by some
mode of proceeding in some court to have the alleged
nuisance abated, and their property. in Georgia protected
in the manner asked by them. But it does not follow
that ,hey can invoke the authority of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the protection of. their property
against the defendant's acts. The jurisdiction of the
Circuit Courts is determined by acts of Congress enacted
in pursuance of the Constitution. Apart from the powers
that are inherent in a judicial tribunal, after such tribunal has been lawfully created, the Circuit Courts can
exercise no jurisdiction not conferred upon them by legislative enactment. It is quite sufficient now to say,
without discussion, that it would be a most violent construction ofthe eighth section of the act of 1875 to hold
that the right to have abated the nuisance in question
arising from the use in Tennessee. of defendant's property, because of the injurious effects upon plaintiffs'
real property in Georgia, creates, in the meaning of the
statute, a "claim to" real property within the district
where the suit is brought. There is absolutely no foundation for such a position. We do not mean to say that
Congress, in eases of controversies betveen citizens of
different States, might not so enlarge the scope of the
statute regulating the jurisdiction of the Federal courts
as to enable the Circuit Court, sitting in Tennessee, to
suppress the nuisance in question. Upon that question

WETMORE v. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
Counsel for Parties.

218 U. S.

we have no occasion at this time to express an opinion.

Still less do we. say .that the plaintiffs have not an efficient remedy in some court either 'against the defendant
corporation, or against the several individuals who, under its sanction, or by its authority, are maintaining in
Tennessee the nuisance complained of.. We only mean
to say-and cannot properly go further in this case-.
that the statute in question does not cover this particular case, and that the United States Circuit Court,
sitting in Tennessee-the New Jersey company refusing
to voluntarily appear in the suit as a defendant-is without jurisdiction to give the plaintiffs,' citizens of New York
and West Virginia, the particular relief asked against
that corporation.
The bill was properly. -dismissed for want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court and the decree below is
Affirmed.

WETMORE vy TENNESSEE COPPER COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 500.

Motion to dismiss appeal. Submitted October 11,. 1910.Decided November 28, 1910.

Ladew v. Tennessee Copper Company, ante, p. 357, followed to effect
that the Circuit Court of the United States did not have jurisdiction
of this case.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles Seymour for appellant.
VOL. CCXVIII-24

