OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

218 U. S.

out. There is no contention that hard labor has been,
or will be, imposed upon the. appellants, and, at most,
only that part of the sentence in excess of the law will be
void. United States v. Pridgeon, 153 U. S. 48.
We find no error in the judgments of the Circuit Court
in refusing to release the petitioners upon the writs of
habeas corpus, and the same will be affirmed.
Affirmed,

UNITED STATES v. ANSONIA BRASS AND
"COP'PER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.

No. 458.

Argued October 18, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

Where the United States claimed in an action in the state court to determine liens on vessels in course of construction, that, under the
contract, title had vested in the United States, or that liens had been
specially reserved thereon, and also claimed that the rights of the
United States were superior to all others and could not be retarded
or impeded by the state lien law, assertions are made of rights and
immunities which are the creation of Federal authority, and, if denied by the state court, this court has jurisdiction under § 709, Rev.
Stat., to review the judgment.
Stipulations entered into by the United States district attorney to obtain possession of vessels in course of construction and seized by j udicial proceedings under state law should not, under §§ 3753, 3754,
Rev. Stat., be construed as depriving the United States of any rights
asserted under the contracts for constructing such vessels.
Construing the three contracts for construction of vessels involved in
this case, the court construes one contract as vesting title in the
United States as the work progressed and the others as not giving
the United States a superior lien'on the uncompleted vessel as work
progressed: in regard to the one contract, the state lien law does. not,
and in regard to the other contract such law does, apply.

UNITED STATES v. ANSONIA BRASS &c. CO. 453
218 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Vessels in course of construction for the United States, the title to.
which under the contract, vests in the Government as fast as constructed, become instrumentalities of the Government and for reasons of public policy cannot be seized under state laws to answer
private claims.
Quawre, whether a joint resolution has the effect of an act of Congress;
but held that the resolution of May 5, 1894, No. 24, 28 Stat. 582, permitting partial payments on vessels under construction for the Treasury Departmentdid not give the Government an express statutory
lien on such vessels superior to those given to materialmen by the
state lien law.
110 Virginia, 165, affirmed in part and reversed in part.
THE facts, which involve the construction of contracts
for the construction of certain vessels for the United
States and the relative rights of the United States and
others claiming liens on such vessels, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Lunsford L. Lewis, United States Attorney, with
whom Mr. Assistant Attorney-General Harr was on the
brief, for the United States:
Contracts made by the United States are not subject
to state registry statutes; the recordation statute of Virginia does not apply thereto. Dollar Savings Bank v.
United States, 19 Wall. 227; Stanley v. Schwalby, 147
U. S. 508; United States v. Snyder, 149 U. S. 210.
Title to the unfinished dredge did vest in the United
States, under the contract, as the work progressed and
was paid for.
As title, under the contract, passed to the United States
as payments were made, the subsequent liens in question
(lid not and could not attach to the vessel. Millhiser v.
Gallego Mills Co., 101 Virginia, 579, 585; Briggs v. A Light
Boat, 7 Allen (Mass.), 287, holding that when property is
acquired by the United States, it is taken cum onere, has
no application. While in general, under a contract for a
ship or other thing not yet in esse but to be constructed, no

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

218 U. S.

title passes to the vendee before it is finished and ready
for delivery, a contrary intent if apparent from the terms
of the contract or the attending circumstances' that title
shall pass before completion, will be effectuated. Clarkson v. Stevens, 106 U. S. 505; Woods v. Russell, 5 B. & Ald.
942; Clarke v. Spence, 4 Ad. & El. 448; Laidler v. Burlinson, 2 M. & W. 602. But see Wood v. Bell, 5 El. & B.
772; Seath v. Moore, 11 App. Cas. 350; Scudder v. The
Calais Steamboat Co., 1 Cliff. 370, 378; Andrews v. Durant,
11 N. Y. 35, Parker, J. See also 2 Mees. & Welsb.
The provision requiring the company to give bond
with security for its faithful performance of the contract
does not create any inference that title was not to vest as
payments were made. The bond was no doubt required
in order to secure the Government against any damage
that might be sustained by reason of failure on the part
of the contractor to do the work within the prescribed time
or in a proper manner, as, in any other view of the case,
the bond was certainly very inadequate security against
damage which the Government might sustain on account
of its payments or otherwise. Clarkson v. Stevens, 29 N. J.
Eq. 607; Andrews v. Durant, 11 N; Y. 35; Williams v. Jackman, 16 Gray, 514; Briggsv. A Light Boat, 7 Allen (Mass.),
287; and Clarkson v. Stevens, 106 U. S.505, distinguished.
As title to the dredge passed under the contract to the
United States, the dredge is not subject to the supplyliens in question, and the right to raise this objection was
in no wise waived by entering into the stipulation upon
which possession of the vessel was surrendered to the
Government, under .§3753, Rev. Stat.
Under the state statute, supply-liens can .attach only to
property- belonging to the debtor corporation. Millhiser
'&c. Co. v. Gallego Mills Co., 101 Virginia, 579, 585.
As to the Mohawk, the contract, unlike the Benyuard
contract, did not stipulate for title as the work progressed,
but for a lien for advances made during the progress of

UNITED STATES v. ANSONIA BRASS &c. CO. 455
218 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

the work. See joint resolution of Congress approved
May 5, 1894, 28 Stats. 582.
When in such a case a lien is reserved the joint resolution operates upon it, and consequently the lien is a statutory lien, and as such, beyond the reach of state legislation. United States v. Snyder, 149 U. S. 210.
The contract was made with reference to the joint
resolution, and Congress in passing the joint resolution
did not contemplate that the lien directed to be reserved
would be liable to be displaced or overridden by liens of
any sort subsequently accruing. While in some States a
joint resolution may not have the force of law, as held in
May v. Rice, 91 Indiana, 546, 552; Burritt v. Commissio4ers of State Contracts, 120 Illinois, 322, 336; Boyers v.
Crane, 1 W. Va. 176, joint resolutions of Congress do not
in their effect differ from-bills, and when duly passed have
the effect of law. See Art. I, § 7, Constitution U. S.;
Cushing, Law & Pr. Leg. Assemblies, 2403; 6 Op. Atty.
Gen. 680; see also Mullan v. State, 114 California; 578,
585.
This joint resolution is not a delegatiori' of legislative
power. Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 693; 1 Jones, Liens,
§ 105. The lien of the Government upon the Mohawk is
prior to the supply-liens in question, not because of any
prerogative right, but because the lien is prior in time;
and being prior in time, it cannot be divested or displaced by subsequent liens, although in the joint resolution nothing is said about the priority of the lien.
The contract is to be read in connection with the
higher law, to wit, the joint resolution, and not the state
supply-lien law, and it is the former and not the latter enactment that "enters into and becomes a part of
the contract." United States v. Maurice, 2 Brock. 96.
The power of the United States to contract is cofxtensivewith the duties and powers of government. United States
v. Tingey, 5 Pet. 115; United States v. T1radley, 10 Pet.

OCTOBER TERM,. 1910.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

218 U. S.

343; Jessup v. United States, 106 U. S. 147; Van Brocklin
v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151, 154; Moses v. United States,
166 U. S. 571, 586.
The power of the Government to contract is, not less
than the power of taxation, a necessary and indispensable
incident of sovereignty. Snyder Case, 149 U. S. 210, 214.
While the States are not expressly prohibited from interfering with the operations of the General Government,
the inhibition comes by necessary implication. Briggs v.
A Light Boat, 7 Allen (Mass.), 297; United States v. Fox,
94. U. S. 315; United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625;
United States v. Bostwick, 94 U. S. 53; Southern Pacific
Co. v. United States, 28 C. Cl. 77; Van Hoffman v. Quincy,
4 Wall. 535; Walker v. Whitehead, 16 Wall. 314, distinguished. See United States v. Thompson, 96 U. S. 486;
United States v. Herron, 20 Wall. 251; Commonwealth v.
Ford, 29 Gratt. (Va.) 683.
What has been said in regard to the Mohawk equally
applies to the Galveston contract. The Secretary of the
Navy had the implied power to reserve a lien on the vessel.
United States v. Macdaniel, 7 Pet. 1; United States v.
Corliss Steam-Engine Co., 91 U. S. 321. Every act of the
Secretary did not have to be authorized by statute.
Haas v. Henkel, 216 U. S. 462, and as to power to reserve
the lien, see Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151.
See also Hauselt v. Harrison, 105 U. S. 401; Burnheisel v.
Firman,22 Wall. 170, 179; Rorer v. Ferguson, 96 Va. 411.
Mr. 1?. G. Bickford and Mr. Eppa Hunton, Jr., for defendants in error:
The sovereignty of the United Stat&s Government is
lawful, not lawless. Under a contract with an individual,
the rights of the Government and the rights, not remedies,
of the individual are precisely the same as if the contract
were between individuals. United States v. State Bank,
96 U. S. 36; United States v. Smith, 94 U. S. 217; United

UNITED STATES v. ANSONIA BRASS &c. CO. 457
218 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

States v. Bostwick, 94 U. S. 66; Mfg. Co. v. United States,
17 Wall. 595; Smoot's Case, 15 Wall. 45; Gleason v. Gosnell,
35 C. Cl. 90; Southern Pac. Co. v. United States, 28 C. Cl.
105; Curtis' Case, 2 C. Cl. 104; Gilbert v. United States, 1
C. Cl. 28; 858 Bales of Cotton, 8 Fed. Cas. 389; 29 Am. &
Eng. Ency. Law, 170; McKnight v. United States, 98 U. S.
.186; Fristoe v. Blum, 45 S. W. Rep. 999.
The only difference between the individual and the
United States in such contracts is a difference of remedy,
not of right. Brent v. Bank of Washington, 10 Pet. 614;
United States v. Bank of Metropolis, 15 Pet. 392.
it is a sovereign in its power of contract; it is a corporation as to the contract actually entered into. Jones v.
United States, 1 C. Cl. 385. While the United States
cannot be sued on its contracts, as that would be an
invasion of its sovereignty, it may sue either in state or
Federal courts as a corporation or body politic. United
States v. Detroit T. & L. Co., 200 U. S. 321; United States v.
Holmes, 105 Fed. Rep. 43; The Davis, 10 Wall. 22; Fink v.
O'Neil, 106 U. S. 280; Carr v. United States 98 U. S. 438;
Mountain Copper Co. v. United States, 142 Fed. Rep.'629;
Walker v. United States, 139 Fed. Rep. 413; United States
v. Clark, 138 Fed. Rep. 299; United States v. Detroit Timber Co., 131 Fed. Rep. 677; United States v. Ingate, 48 Fed.
Rep. 253; United States v. Tetlow, Fed. Cas. No. 16,456;
28 Fed. Cas. 45; 29 Am. & Eng. Ency. of L. 172; 27 Am.
& Eng. Ency. of L., 1st ed., 537.
Courts of a State may acquire jurisdiction over the
United States by its voluntary submission and incidentally
to such submission the United States renders itself liable
to the operation of laws of the State of such tribunal. In
like manner, the United States may render itself liable to
.the laws of the State by voluntary contract with persons,
and respecting property, subject to state laws. Ryan v.
United States, 136 U. S. 82; United States v. 100 Barrels,
Fed. Cas. No. 15,945; Cliffordv. United States, 34 C. Cl.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

218 U. S.

232;, United States v. Ames, Fed. Cas. No. 14,441; United
States v. Crosby, 7 Cranch (U. S.), 115; New Orleans v.
United States, 10 Pet. 662; Stearns v. United States, 22
Fed. Cas. 1192; Briggs v. A Light Boat, 7 Allen, 297; The
Siren, 7 Wall. 152; The Davis, 10 Wall. 19.
The right in private property or under contract, cannot
be greater than the right of its grantor. The state statute
fully operated before the right of the United States accrued, The Government took cum onere, and that was
the intent of the parties. Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.
41; United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S.629; United States
v. Fox, 94 U. S. 315; United States v. Buford, 3 Pet. 29;
Central Trust Co. v. Charlotte, C. & A. R. Co., 65 Fed. Rep.
259; In re Merriam's Estate, 36.N. E. Rep. 506; Levaser v.
Washburn, 11 Gratt. 578; 25 Cyc. 661.
The Government was entitled merely to what the
Trigg Company could give, and all that that corporation
could give was that whidh remained of the property, after
satisfying the supply-liens. This would be the result in a
contract between individuals, and the same result follows
though the vessels were to pass to the United States.
Briggs v. A Light Boat, 7 Allen, 296, 297; McNeal & Co.
v. Howland, 16 S. E. Rep. 857; The Revenue Cutter No. 1,
Fed. Cas. No. 11,713; The Revenue Cutter No. 2, Fed.
Cas. No. 11,714.
The contract should be construed agreeably with the
intent of the parties. Both the Government and the
Trigg Company intended that the rights of the Government should be subject to the supply-lien law. This was
an actual as well as a legal intent. As to the legal intent,
see Brine v. Insurance Co., 96 U. S. 643; Provident Institution v. Jersey City, 113 U. S. 511; Van Stone v. Stillwell, 142 U. S.136; Brent v. Bank of Washington, 10 Pet.
596.
The Galveston contract, which was the first of the three
contracts, expressly recognizes that the rights which were

UNITED STATES v. ANSONIA BRASS &c. 0. 459
218 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

given by the Trigg Company to the United States were
subject and were intended to be subject, to the lien laws
of the State. Op. Atty. General Griggs, June 21, 1900,
cited approvingly in Penn Iron Co. v. Trigg Co.,'56 S. E.
Rqp. 329.
1
'There was no common-law lien; the possession of the
Galveston remained with the Trigg Company until long
after the supply-liens were filed. Therefore the Government did not have a common-law lien. Neither was it a
pledge, for here, also, possession passes to the creditor.
3 Pomeroy's Eq. Jur. 2466. The lien, if any, was void as
to third persons at common law. 7 Bacon's Abridgment, 181, and there is a preponderance of authority that
there is no lien as between the parties themselves. 22
Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 853, 854, 855.
As property remained in the Trigg Company, by the
express terms of the supply-lien statute, the supply-lienors
had the prior right. The United States is entitled to
prior liens or rights-only where some statute provides for
such priority. United States v. Bank of North Carolina,6
Pet. 34; United States v. Canal Bank, Fed. Cas. No. 14,715;
25 Fed. Cas. 278. See also Conard v. The Atlantic Ins. Co.,
1 Pet. 441; Briggs v. A Light Boat, 7 Allen, 297; United
States v. American Surety Co., 111 Fed. Rep. 914; United
States v. Heaton, 128 Fed. Rep. 414; United States v. Detroit Lumber Co., 131 Fed. Rep. 668; C. C. A. U. S. v.
American Surety Co., 135 Fed. Rep. 79.
There is no statute giving priority; therefore, none
exists. The joint resolution requiring the Secretary of the
Treasury to insert in the contract a provision for a lien
neither gives a lien, nor did Congress intend it to have
that effect. It clearly contemplates a contractual and not
a statutory lien. United States v. Snyder, 149 U. S. 210,
and see 1 Jones on Liens, § 105;.2 Mechem on Sales,
§ 755; 2 Parsons on Contracts, 8th ed., 259; Merritt v.
Johnson, 7 Johns. (N. Y.) 473; Andrews v. Durant, 11

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

218 U. R.

N. Y. 34; People v. Commissioners, 58 N. Y. 244; Hall v.
Green, 1 Houst. (Del.) 546; Shaw v. Smith; 48 Connecticut, 306; Yukon River Steamboat Co. v. Brotto, 136 California, 538; Williams v. Jackman, 16 Gray, 514; Low v.
Austin, 20 N. Y. 182; Briggs v. A Light Boat, 7 Allen
(Mass.), 287; Wright v. Tetlow, 99 Massachusetts, 397;
Forsythe v. Dickson, 1 Grant's Cases, 26 (Penn.); Scull v.
Shakespeare, 75 Pa. St. 297; Lang's Appeal, 81 Pa. St.
18; Coursin's Appeal, 79 Pa. St. 220; Strong v. Dinniry,
175 Pa. St. 586; S. C., 34 Atl. Rep. 919; Haneyv. Schooner
Rosabelle, 20 Wisconsin, 261; Elliott v. Edwards, 35 N. J. L.
265; West Co. v. Trenton Co., 35.N. J. L. 517; Stevens V.
Ahippen, 29 N. J. Eq. 602; Revenue Cutter No. 1, Fed. Cas.
No. 11,713; Revenue Cutter No. 2, Fed. Cas. No. 11,714;
The Sam Slick, Fed. Cas. No. 12,283; Clarkson v. Stevens,
106 U. S. 505; The.Poconoket, 67 Fed. Rep. 262; The John
B. Ketchum, 97 Fed. Rep. 872; see also Trigg v. Bumrus
Company, 51 S. E. Igep. 175, 176.
The contract is entire and the installment payments
were"made upon the faith of the' complete performance of
the entire contract, the doing of all the work, the supplying of all materials.
Giving to the Benyuard contract and specifications the
full effect claimed by the Government, the supply-lienors
are yet entitled to a claim on that vessel. Wood v.
Skinner, 139 U. S. 293, 295; Murdock v. Memphis, 20
Wall. 590, 636; Pollard's Code, 1904; Smith v. Howard,
53 N. E. Rep. 143, 144; see also Kerr v. Moon, 9.Wheat.
565.
The Virginia recording statutes operate precisely as
did the inheritance tax law of New York. See Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; United States v. Perkins,
163 U. S. 629; Ryan v. United States, 136 U. S. 86; Burbank v. Conrad, 96 U. S. 292, 293; Stewart v. Platt,
101 U. S. 737; Montgomery v. Wright, 8 Michigan, 147,
148.

UNITED STATES v. ANSONIA BRASS &c. CO. 461
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Appeals
of Virginia. The controversy grows out of contracts made
between the United States and the William R. Trigg Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State
of Virginia, carrying on business at Richmond, Virginia,
for the construction of certain vessels for the United States,
namely, a sea-going suction dredge, called the Benyuard,
for the War Department; a revenue cutter, called the
Mohawk, for the Treasury Department; and a cruiser,
for the -Navy Department, called the Galveston. The
contract price for the Benyuard, apart from its pumping
machinery, was $254,550; for the Mohawk, $217,000;
.and for the Galveston, $1,027,000. These contracts were
dated, for the Benyuard, September 9, 1901; for the Mo.hawk, April 20, 1900; .and for the Galveston, December 14, 1899.
In December, 1902, S. H. Hawes & Company filed a
bill in the Chancery Court at the city of Richmond, on
behalf of themselves and other creditors, asserting liens
under the supply-lien law of the State of Virginia, averring
the insolvency of the Trigg Company, and asking for the
appointment of a receiver, which was accordingly made.
The receiver took possession of the property of the Trigg
Company, including the vessels above named. Under
§§ 3753 and 3754 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States a stipulation was executed by the United States
district attorney, on behalf of the United States, for the
release and discharge of the vessels, and the material on
hand applicable thereto.
Thereafter the case proceeded to judgment, and, on
final appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia,
the liens under the supply-lien law of the State were held
superior to any claim or lien of the Government. In the
case of the Benyuard, two of the five judges of that court

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

dissented from the opinion of the majority, holding that
the title to the Benyuard had passed to the United States
under the terms of the contract under which it was constructed. The case is reported in 110 Virginia, 165.
It is contended that there is no jurisdiction in this court
to review the judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals
of Virginia, as no Federal question was decided in that
court which would lay the foundation for the writ of error.
In the third class of cases provided for in § 709 of the
United States Revised Statutes, it is expressly provided
that 'where any right, title, privilege or immunity claimed
under the Constitution, treaty or statute of the United
States, or an authority exercised under the United States,
is specially set up or claimed by either party, and the
decision is against such right, title, privilege or immunity,
the same may be refxamined and reviewed by writ of
error from this court.
An examination of the record discloses that the Government claimed in the case that under the contract the title
to the dredge vested in the United States by virtue of
the terms of the contract; that a lien was reserved to, the
United States under the contract for the cutter Mohawk
and the cruiser Galveston, which was superior to the claims
of the supply-liens' creditors under the laws of the State
of Virginia. The Government further contended that
the right of the Government to its superior claims upon
the vessels, whether of title or lien, could not be affected
by, and were not subject to, the lien statutes of the State
of Virginia. The Government also claimed that the State
had no power to retard, impede or control the operation
of the Federal Government in making and carrying out
such contracts as are herein under consideration.
We think that from this statement of the claims made
in the court below on behalf of the United States assertions were made of rights and immunities which were
the creation of Federal authority, and the denial thereof

UNITED STATES v. ANSONIA BRASS &c. CO. 4i3
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

*by the judgment of the state court brings the case withiti
the provisions of § 709 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States. It is not necessary to lay the foundation
for jurisdiction that the claims of Federal rights asserted
should be well founded; it is enough if they are substantial
claims .of Federal rights within the statute, and such as
were duly asserted and directly or necessarily denied in
the judgment and decision of the state court.
Nor do we think there is anything in the stipulation
entered into on the part of the Government by the United
States district attorney, with a view to getting possession
of the vessels, which were in the hands of the receiver,
which in anywise deprived the Government of the right
to assert any such immunity and privilege as it has because of the nature and character of the contracts and
the lien of the Government in the premises.
An examination of these sections, 3753-3754, shows that
they are intended to permit the United States to obtain
possession of property claimed by it, when the same has
been seized by judicial proceedings under the laws of the
State, and to give to it and to the persons asserting rights
in the property protection in their rights, notwithstanding
such changes in possession.
In § 3753 it is expresdy provided that "nothing herein
contained shall, however, be considered as recognizing
or conceding any right to enforce by seizure, arrest, attachment or any judicial process any claim against any
property of the United States, or against any property
held, owned or employed by-the United States, or by any
department thereof, for any public use, or as waiving
any objection to any proceeding instituted to enforce
any such claim."
Section 3754 provides for the protection of persons
asserting claims against such property, and that after
final judgment given in the court of last resort, to which
the Secretary of the Treasury may deem proper to carry

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218'U. S.

the proceedings, affirming the rights of the persons asserting claims for the security or satisfaction of which
such proceedings were instituted in the state courts against
such property, notwithstanding the claims of the United
States, the final judgment shall be deemed to all intents
and purposes as a final determination of the rights of such
persons, and shall entitle such persons as against the
United States to such right as they would have in case the
possession of such property had not been changed. The
section provides for the payment of such final judgment
out of the Treasury of the United States.
The evident purpose of these sections is that neither
the United States nor the claimants to the property shall
lose any rights because of the release of the property under
the stipulation, but as were the rights of the parties before
the change of possession such they shall continue to be.
We do not agree that by entering into a stipulation, which
embodied these terms, the United States lost any right
which it had to assert claims under the contracts, or tights
by reason of the sovereignty of the United States, if any
such exist. We think this court has jurisdiction of this
case upon this writ of error.
Taking up the consideration of the case as to these
several vessels, and first as to the Benyuard, this dredge
was constructed under the provisions of a contract which
are thus summarized by the master in the Virginia Chancery Court:
"Materials furnished and the work done by the William
R. Trigg Company were to be subject to rigid inspection
,by an. inspector appointed on the part of the Government;
his decision to be final as to quantity and quality.
"If the Trigg Company should fail to begin or prosecute
the work in accordance with the specifications, which
were made a part of the contract, -the contract might be
annulled by the Government. In that case all payments
were to cease, and all money or reserved percentage must

UNITED STATES v. ANSONIA BRASS &c. CO. 465
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be retained until the final completion and acceptance of
the boat. The Government was to have the right to recover anything paid for such completion in excess of the
original contract price with the William R. Trigg Company, including all extra cost of inspection; and might
proeed under section 3709 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States to provide for the completion of the boat by
open purchase or contract, unless the time for such completion should be extended.
"It was expressly provided that the William R. Trigg
Company should be responsible for and pay all liabilities
incurred in the prosecution of the work for labor and
materials.
"Section nine of the contract was as follows:
" ' It is further agreed by and between the parties hereto
that until final inspection and acceptance of, and payment for, all materials and work herein provided for, no
prior inspection, payment, or act is to be construed as
a waiver of the right of the party of the first part to reject any defective work or material or to require the fulfilment of any of the terms of the contract.'
"Section 199 of the specifications was as follows:
" '.The purpose and spirit of these specifications are that
the contractor is to provide and deliver a staunch dredge
hull and first-class machinery, complete in every respect.'
"Section 206 of the specifications was as follows:
"'It is understood and agreed that the contractor assumes full responsibility for the safety of his employees,
plant, and materials, and for any damage or injury done
by or to them from any source or cause.'
"Section 209 provided for sea trials at the expense of
the contractor, any defects that might appear to be remedied at his expense and trials to be repeated until the
steamer should be found satisfactory in all respects. Section 210 provided that if the requirements of the specifications were complied with, ten (10) -equal payments
VOL. ccxvii-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

21§ U. S.

should be made, based on the reports of the inspector,
the first ,vhen the hull and propelling machinery should
be 10 per cent complete, the second when 20 per cent
complete, and so on, to the last payment to be made,
when the vessel should be turned over to the United States
after successful trial; from each of said payments, except
the last, 20 per cent to be reserved until final payment.
"Section 211 was as follows:
"'The parts paid for under the system of partial payments above specified shall become thereby the sole property of the United States, but this provision shall not be
interpreted as relieving the contractor from the sole responsibility for the proper care and protection of said
parts prior to the delivery of the dredge to the United
States, or from any other 6f the provisions of these specifications.'
"Section 212 provided for insurance against fire and
marine risks at the contractor's cost, for and in behalf of
the United States, to at least the amount of each partial
payment.
"The evidence shows that the Government had paid
$142,550.80 on account of this contract when the receiver
was appointed in this cause, and that said dredge was
then 70 per cent complete."
It is the contention of the Government that the terms
of this contract are such that by its expressed provisions
the vessel was to become the property of the United States
as fast as it was paid for. A majority of the learned judges
of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia were of opinion that title did not pass to the Government under this
contract, and that it was subject to the superior lien of
claimants under the state laws of Virginia. It is undoubtedly true that the mere facts that the vessel is to be paid
for in installments as the work progressek, and to be built
under the superintendence of a government inspector,
who had power to reject or approve the materials, will

UNITED STATES v. ANSONIA BRASS &c. CO. 467
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.-

not of themselves work the transfer of the title of a vessel
to be constructed, in advance of its completion. But
it is equally well settled that if the contract is"such as to
clearly express the intention of the parties that the builder
shall sell and the purchaser shall buy the ship before its
completion, and at the different stages of its progress,
and this purpose is expressed in the words of the contract,
it is binding and effectual in law to pass the title. 2 Parsons on Contracts, 8th ed. 259, and cases cited.
All sections of the agreement must be read in the light
of the purposes of the contracting parties as gathered
from the entire contract, and must be considered in connection with other provisions of the contract. And it is
said that § 212, as to insurance, does not show an intention to protect the title transferred to the Government,
but must be read in the light of the purpose of the Government to acquire title to the dredge in the event that it
ultimately elected to take it over as a purchaser, the ownership in the meantime remaining in the builder until such
final decision was made, and the insurance was required
for the Government's security for the partial payments.
But we cannot agree to this construction of §.212. The
ownership clause provides that parts paid for are to become
the sole property of the United States (specifications, § 211),
insurance was to be provided by the contractor preceding
each partial payment, that is, as fast as title vested in
the Government by reason of the partial payments insurance was to be effected "to at least the amount of such
partial payment, and the property was to be kept insured
to at least the aggregate of the payments made until de"
livery and final acceptance."
It is insisted that the right to reject the dredge, or to
annul the contract, is inconsistent with the passage of
title under the provisions of § 211 of the specifications,
however positive that section may be in terms.
Section 9 of the contract provides:

OCTOBER TERM, 1910-.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

"It is further agreed by and between the parties hereto
that until final inspection and acceptance hereof, and
payment for, all the material and work herein provided
for, no prior inspection, payment, or act is to be construed
as a waiver of the right of the party of the first part to
reject any defective work or material, or to require the
fulfillment of any of the terms of this contract'"
Let it be conceded that this section gave the Government the right to reject defective work or material, or
even the entire dredge, if, upon trial and before final acceptance, it proved defective, is that right inconsistent
with the vesting of title in the parts as paid for, as specifically provided in § 211? We think not. It may be that
in such contingency the Government might reject the
dredge. This might be true consistently with the acquirement of title in parts accepted and paid for after inspection. That is, if the whole, upon final trial, proved defective, all, including the restoration of that acquired,
might be within the power of the Government. See in
this connection, The Poconoket, 67 Fed. Rep. 262, 266.
The provisions of § 4 look rather to the completion
of the vessel by the Government in the event of the annulment of the contract for failure to keep its requirements.
In that contingency it is provided that payments shall
cease and reserved payments be retained until the final
completion and acceptance of the work. In this section
the United States is given a remedy for the cost of completion upon the failure of the contractor to prosecute
the work according to the contract.
Nor do we find it inconsistent with the vesting of the
title in parts that bond was taken in the sum of. $60,000
for the performance of the contract. The United States
might Well secure itself in this sum, notwithstanding it
took title to parts as paid for. Security might nevertheless be required for the faithful doing of the work within
the stipulated time. It is also true that the Trigg Coin-

UNITED STATES v. ANSONIA BRASS &c. CO. 469
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pany was to be responsible for and pay all liabilities for
labor and material incurred in the prosecution of, the
work. We are at a loss to see any inconsistency between
this provision and the passing of the title in parts as paid
for. Construing the whole contract, we find nothing in
its other provisions which cuts down or lessens the binding
force of the clear and distinct provisions of § 211 as to
ownership. The parties therein dealt with a specific part
of tlhe contract, they expressed themselves clearly upon
the subject, and it is not to be presumed, in the absence
of clear expression or necessary implication, that they
intended to supersede this provision in dealing with other
specific or general parts of the agreement.
It is suggested, in this connection, that the contract
with the Government in the case of the Benyuard is not
different in effect than the one passed upon in Clarkson v.
Stevens, 106 U. S. 505. In that case the contract provided
that the materials received at the yard for the construction of the steamer should be distinctly marked with the
letters. "U. S.," and should become the property of and
belong to the United States. There' was no provision
that title to the vessel should vest in the United States
as fast as parts thereof were%constructed, and Mr. Justice
Matthews, who delivered the opinion of the court, approved the opinion of the Court of Errors and Appeals
of New Jersey, expressing the view that the declaration
as to the materials excluded the implication sought to
be raised as to the title in the unfinished ship; ".for," said
Mr. Justice Matthews, "the inference is obvious, from
the particularity of such a provision, that the larger interest would not be left to mere intendment." Clarkson
v. Stevens, 106 U. S. 516.
In Briggs v. A Light Boat, 7 Allen, 287, a builder's lien,
taken under the Massachusetts statute on, .a light-boat
being built for the United States, was sustained. In that
case the contract made no provision for a lien in favor

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

of the Government or the passing of the title to the boat
,inprogress of construction. Mr. Chief Justice Bigelow,
delivering the opinion of the Supreme Judicial Court
of Massachusetts, used this significant language (page
297).
"If this were a suit brought by the builders to enforce
a lien for materials furnished for the construction of a
ship under a contract directly with the Government, or
for repairs on a public vessel, the title of which was vested
in the United States at the time the work was done or
the supplies were furnished, the argument founded on
public policy, and the suggestions arising from the inconvenience of causing delay and embarrassment to the public service, would be entitled to very great weight. It
might in such case be open to grave doubt whether a lien
on the property of the United States could be given by
virtue of an enactment of the legislature of a State, or
whether services rendered and materials supplied directly
to the Government must not be presumed to have been
furnished exclusively on the faith and credit of the United
States, to the exclusion of any intent to rely on a lien upon
the public property. But considerations of this nature
have no application to a case like the present. It would
have been competent for the United States, if they wished
to avoid the inconvenience or danger of delay arising
from liens in favor of private persons, to make their contract in such form as to divest the builder of any title to
the property in the vessel during the process of construction, or to stipulate for the application of the purchase
money to the extinguishment of all claims for materials
furnished to the builder."
As we construe the contract for the construction of the
Benyuard, it did "divest the builder of any title to the
property in the vessel during the process of construction."
The question in this aspect of the case then becomes one
as to the right of a state'lien law to fasten upon the prop-

UNITED STATES v. ANSONIA BRASS &c. CO. 471
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

erty of the United States, and that property a vessel intended for the use of the Government in carrying on its
*necessary operations. in the exercise of its governmental
authority.
It was in recognition of the inability of contractors
for labor and material to take liens upon the public property of the United States that Congress passed the act.
of August 13, 1894, c. 280 (28 Stat. 278), amended February 24, 1905, c. 778 (33 Stat. 811), providing for bonds
in favor of those who furnished labor or materials in the
construction of public works. It was in view of this purpose to provide protection for those who could not protect
themselves by liens upon public property that the statute
was given liberal construction in this court. See Guaranty
Trust Co. v. Pressed Brick Co., 191 U. S. 416, 425; Hill v.
Surety Co., 200 U. S. 197, 203.
As we read the decision of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia, it is not held that a lien was fixed upon
the dredge, if in fact the title thereto passed to the United
States. In any event, it could not be tolerated that property of the United States could be seized or encumbered
under state lien laws of the character in question. Ware not now dealing with the right of a State to provide
for such liens while property to the chattel in process of
construction remains in the builder, who may be constructing the same with a view to transferring title therein
to the United States upon its acceptance under a contract
with the Government. We are now treating of property
which the United States owns. Such property, for the
most obvious reasons of public policy, cannot be seized
by authority of another sovereignty against the consent
of the Government. The Benyuard, as fast as constructed,
became one of the instrumentalities of the Government,
intended for public use, and could not be seized under
state laws to answer the claimof a private person, however meritorious.

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1910..
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

Nor do we think the case one for the application of the
doctrine governing cases where the United States claims
an interest in property lawfully in possession of a court
which is administering'it-as in equity or in admiraltyand the Government intervenes to protect its interest
therein. In such instances its rights must be adjudicated
in recognition of the rights and demands of others interested in the same property. In this case the vessels were
released under a stipulation which fully protected the
rights of the United States, and the Government claims
the exclusive right and title in the Benyuard as the parts
were completed and, paid for.
In the case of the Mohawk there is no such stipulation
as to passing of the title on partial payments in the progress of the work as is found in the contract for the Benyuard. The Secretary of the Treasury wa in his discretion, to make partial payments under the contract during
the progress of the work, not to exceed 75 per cent of the
value of the labor and materials actually furnished and
delivered, and a lien was reserved for such payments, in
the following language:
"Provided, That a lien shall be, and hereby is, reserved
to the United States upon the hull, machinery, fittings
and equipment of said vessel, and the materials on hand
for use in her construction, respectively and collectively,
for all moneys advanced On account thereof, and that such
lien shall commence with the first payment, and shall
thereupon attach to the work and the materials furnished,
and shall in like manner attach from time to time, as the
work progresses, and as further payments are made, and
shall continue until the completion and acceptance of
said vessel."This lien, it is asserted, was reserved in accordahce
with a joint resolution of Congress passed May 5, 1994,
No. 24 (28 Stat. 582, 583), which is as follows:
"Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives

UNITED STATES v. ANSONIA BRASS &c. CO. 473
218 U. S.,

Opinion of the Court.

of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That

the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he hereby is, authorized to make partial payments, from time to time,
upon existing contracts and all contracts hereafter made
for the construction of vessels for the Treasury Department, but not in excess of 75 per cent of the amount of
the value of the work already done; and that the contracts
hereafter made shall provide for a lien upon such vessels
for all advances so made: Provided, That nothing in this
joint resolution shall be construed to hereafter authorize
any partial payments except on contracts stipulating for
the same, and then only in accordance with such contract
stipulation."
On behalf of the Government it is contended that this
resolution makes the lien of the Government, reserved
under the contract, an express statutory lien by authority
of the United States, and consequently superior to any
asserted rights under the lien laws of a State. But we
cannot agree to this contention. The joint resolution,
if it be conceded to have the effect of an act of Congress,
does not undertake to create a statutory lien, but directs
how contracts thereafter made shall provide with reference
to liens upon'such vessels. As to future contracts, it is
directed that they shall provide for liens upon vessels
for advances thus made. We think the lien mentioned
is only one created by the terms of the contract and is
to be considered in the light of the other provisions thereof.
At the time of enterihg into the contract, a bond was
required and was given by the Trigg Company in the
penal sum of $45,000, conditioned for the proper construction of the vessel according to the contract and specifications, and that- the Trigg Company should promptly
make payments to other persons supplying labor and
materials in the prosecution of the work. We" think this
requirement was a distinct recognition on the part of the'
Government that the Trigg Company might become iii-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

debted to other persons who should perform labor or furnish materials in the building of the vessel, who might
become entitled, by reason of such claims against the
company, to liens upon the property.
The contract was made with the Virginia corporation,
and it was intended that the bond required of the Trigg
Company should protect the Government against rights
arising out of labor performed or material furnished in
the construction of the vessel Conceding it to be true
for this purpose, as asserted by the counsel for the Government, that the United States can make contracts providing liens of this character which shall be superior to
the claims of any persons for liens under state laws, it
is none the less certain that it may if it chooses recognize
the authority of the States to protect persons who may
furnish labor or materials for the construction of government work. Indeed, such, as we have seen, is the policy
of the Government in respect to public - buildings and
structures, upon which liens cannot be taken under the
laws of the States. In order ' that such claims may be
satisfied the United States has made provision for their
protection by bonds upon which persons may. recover
damages, so that those who furnish property of which
the Government receives the benefit shall not bntail a
loss by so doing. Read in the light of this policy, so man-.
ifestly just and proper, and the requirements of this contract and bond, we think that the Goverfiment did hot
intend that the lien, which it reserved for itself, should
be superior to that of contractors for labor and material
who had contributed to the work.
The case of the Galveston is controlled by the same
principles. In that contract there was no provision for
taking title to the vessel; on the -contrary, it was stipulated that on certain" conditions the title slould vest in
the United States as collateral security, and ,the eighteenth
clause of the contract provides for the release of iens

UNITED STATES v. ANSONIA BRASS &c. CO. 475
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

before partial payments shall be required. This clause
is distinct and clear in its requirements, and reads:
"When a payment is to be made under this contract, as
a condition precedent thereto, the Secretary of the Navy
may, in his discretion, require, for the protection of the
party of the second part, evidence satisfactory to him, to
be furnished by the party of the first part, that no liens or
rights in rem of any kind against said vessel, or her machinery, fittings, or equipment, or the material on hand for
use in the construction thereof, have been or can be acquired for or on account of any work done or any machinery, fitting, equipment, or material already incorporated as
a part of said vessel, or on hand for that purpose, or that
such liens or rights have either been released absolutely,
or so subordinated to the rights of the Government as
to make its lien for all payments paramount, so as not
to encumber or hinder in any way the right of the Government to accept or reject said vessel, and so as to become
absolutely extinguished in case of the acceptance of the
vessel."
The effect which we give this provision is strengthened
by the opinion rendered to the Secretary of the Navy by
the Attorney General, that in his opinion the practice
of the Navy Department in making such contracts recognized that liens of this class might be acquired on vessels
where there was no provision in the contract for vesting
title in the same in the United States. 23 Op. Atty. Gen.
174, 176.
We think that this contract, as the one for the Mohawk,
was made in recognition of the rights of those who should
furnish work or material for the vessel to secure their
claims by liens which it was made the duty of the contractor to provide for in order to protect the title of the
United States.
Upon the whole case we reach the conclusion that judgment must be affirmed as to the Mohawk and Galveston,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

218 U. S.

and reversed as to the Benyuard, and it is so ordered.
The case is remanded to the Supreme Court of Appeals
of Virginia for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.

CHANTANGCO v. ABAROA.
ERROR 'TOTHE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 2. Submitted October 24, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.
The general rule of the common law is that a judgment in a criminal
proceeding cannot be read in evidence in a civil action to establish
any fact there determined. The parties are not the same and different rules of evidence are applicable.
Identity of parties will not always operate to make a judgment in a
criminal action admissible in a civil action; there must be identity
of issue, Stone v. United States, 167 U. S. 178, although as held in
Coffey v. United States, 116 U. S.436, when the facts are ascertained
in a criminal case as *between the United States and the defendant
they cannot be again litigated as between him and the United States
as the basis of any statutory punishment denounced as a consequence of the existence of the facts.
In a case coming from the ,Philippine Islands, however, this court will
not apply.the common-law rule as to effect to be given in a subsequent civil case to a judgment in a criminal case, but will consider
only whether the local law of the Philippine Islands has been rightly
applied.
The local law in the Philippine Islands, which is still in force, not having been suspended by legislation, is that indemnity for damages in
penal cases is a consequence -of the commission of the crime and a
verdict of acquittal carries with it exemption from civil liability.
This rule applies even against one who in the criminal action attempted to reserve his rights to bring a civil action.

THE facts, which involve the right of recovery in the
Philippine Islands of damages caused by alleged crimi-

