JENNINGS v. PHIL., BALT. & WASH. RY. CO. 255
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

JENNINGS v. PHILADELPHIA, BALTIMORE AND
WASHINGTON RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 10. Submitted April 26, 1910.-Decided October 31, 1910.
In-the absence of an extending order the trial court loses control of
the case after the term has been closed and an appeal has been
allowed and perfected; and common law rule 55 of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia allowing thirty-eight days to file a
bill of exceptions applies only so long as the judgment term is running and does not operate to extend the power of the trial judge over
the record beyond the term.
Grave matter* of procedure such as the allowance of a bill of exceptions after close of the term should not rest on mere implication of
consent.
A proceeding at the instance of one party to the record cannot be
regarded as by consent simply because the other party has notice
and does not object; the latter, if he does nothing to prejudice the
rights of others, may sit silent and still object that the proceeding is
coram non judice.
31 App. D. C. 173, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry E. Davis and Mr. E. Hilton Jackson for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, Mr. John Spalding Flannery
and Mr. William Hitz for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
This case turns primarily upon the question of whether
the Supreme Court of the District exceeded its jurisdic-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

tion in allowing a bill of exceptions after the close of the
term at which the judgment sought to be reversed had become final. The judgment was rendered on December 20,
1907. The term closed December 31, and a new term
began on January 1, 1908. On January 10, 1908, an appeal
bond was approved and filed. On January 14, the appellant, having given eight days' notice, under rule 55 of the
court, presented a bill of exceptions to the court for
allowance. The stipulation in respect of this recites:
"In pursuance of common law rule No. 55 cocunsel for the
appellee was present, having received the eight-day notice,
together with a copy of appellant's proposi d bill of exceptions required by said rule. The proposed bill of
exceptions was submitted to the'court by counsel for the
appellant in the presence of and without objection from
counsel for the appellee."
Common law rule 55, under which the appellant claimed
the right to have his bill of exceptions filed within thirtyeight days after the rendition of the judgment, was applicable only so long as the judgment term was running
and did not operate to extend the power of the trial
judge over the record beyond the term. No order had
been made in term time for the filing of such a delayed
bill. Not only had the term closed, but an appeal had
been allowed and perfected. The trial court had thereby
lost control of the cause, and had no authority to add to
or take from the record.
In Michigan Insurance Bank v. Eldred, 143 U. S. 293,
298, this court said:
"By the uniform course of decision, no exceptions to
rulings at a trial .can be considered by this court, unless
they were taken at the trial, and were also embodied in a
formal bill of exceptions presented to the judge at the shme
term, or within a further time allowed by order entered
at that term, or by standing rule of court, or by consent
of parties; and, save under very extraordinary circum-

JENNINGS v. PHIL., BALT. & WASH. RY. CO. 257
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

stances, they must be allowed by the judge and filed with
the clerk during the same term. After the term has
expired, without the court's control over the case being
reserved by standing rule or special order, and especially
after a writ of error has been entered in this court, all
authority of the court below to allow a bill of exceptions
then first presented, or to alter or amend a bill of exceptions already allowed and filed, is at an end."
See also Morse v. Anderson, 150 U. S. 156; Muller v.
Ehlers, 91 U. S. 249; Merchants' Insurance Co. v. Buckner,
C. C. A., 6th Cir., 98 Fed. Rep. 222.
But it is urged that if the appellee consented that an
order might be entered nunc pro tunc, permitting the
filing and allowance of a bill of exceptions, such consent
should be given the force of an order in term or a rule of
court. But if this be granted, the order in this case does
not profess to have been founded upon consent. The
stipulation recites that the proposed bill was presented to
the court "in the presence of and without objection from
counsel for the appellee."
The proceeding was coram non judice. Appellee was not
in court or before a court. The judge and the court had
lost all power over the cause, the parties and the record.
The appellant was pretending to proceed under rule 55.
The appellee might well sit silent and let the matter rest
upon the claim; it was not asked to say whether it consented. A different case might arise if, by its failure to
object, the appellant had been misled to his injury. But
there was nothing left undone which might have been done
and nothing done to his prejudice. The plain question
was, Did the court have power under. rule 55, or under any
order of the court or controlling practice, to allow a bill
of exceptions after the close of the term? The appellee
might fairly say nothing.
So grave a matter as the allowance of a bill of exceptions
after the close of the term and after the court had lost
VOL. CCXVni-.. 17

OCTOBER TERM,- 1910.
Syllabus.

218 U. S.

all judicial power over the record should not rest, upon a
mere implication from silence. There should be express
consent, or conduct which should equitably estop the
opposite party from denying that he had consented.
There was nothing of that kind in this case, and the judgment of the Court of Appeals must be
Affirmed.

RICKEY LAND AND CATTLE COMPANY v.
MILLER AND LUX.
SAME v. WOOD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 4, 5. Argued January 18, 19, '1910.-Restored to the docket for reargument January 31, 1910.-Reargued October 24, 25, 1910.-Decided
November 7, 1910.
One court ought to deal with the whole matter in litigation even.
where the law of different jurisdictions is involved; foreign law
may be ascertained and acted upon and rights depending thereon
protected.
Where riparian rights of several parcels of land in different States but
on the same river are involved, the courts of both States have concurrent jurisdiction, and the court first seized should proceed to
determination without interference.
Quere, whether notice to an individual in regard to his property is not
notice to a corporation organized by him after such notice and to
which he conveys his property.
Where, as in this case, cross-bills are maintainable, jurisdiction in
respect to them follows that over the principal bill.
.152 Fed. Rep. 11, 22; 81 C. C. A. 207, 218, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

