ARKANSAS SOU. RY. v. LOUISIANA & ARK. RY. 431
218 U. S.

Syllabus.

bill was, therefore, to prevent the use of property under
a claim of title to it which would take time to determine,
and it was not inequitable in the court to require security
of the appellants, the security which was required of other
litigants who sought the same kind of relief.
Appellants, however, contend that the requirement was
inequitable, because the amount of the bond would have
been large and beyond their ability to give. But we may
not assume that the court's action would have been in
excess of what the circumstance would have justified. The
appellants did not invoke further action, but took an appeal, even before the expiration of the time which they had

been given to comply with the provision of the decree.
Decree affirmed.

ARKANSAS SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
LOUISIANA AND ARKANSAS RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 38. Argued November 4, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.
This court must satisfy itself whether or not the party claiming the
benefit of a contract which it claims was impaired by subsequent
legislation had acquired rights under the original contract and therefore has jurisdiction.
This court follows the state court in determining the extent of a special immunity from taxation granted by the constitution of the State.
A subordinate body of the State, in the absence of the State distinctly
limiting its control thereover, contracts'subject, and not paramount,
to the power of the State.
A State by authorizing a municipality to levy taxes in the future on
taxable property withiin its jurisdiction does not thereby limit its
own power to determine what property shall be taxable when the
levy shall be made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

218 U. S.

Even if the vote by a parish acting under a state statute in Louisiana
to aid a railroad company by an annual tax constituted a contract
and the company became entitled to its benefit, a provision in a
subsequently enacted constitution, exempting certain property then
taxable from all taxation does not impair the obligation of the original contract and the special tax dannot be imposed on the property
so exempted.
121 Louisiana, 997, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of certain taxation on property claimed to be exempt under provisions
of the constitution of the State of Louisiana, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Allan Sholars, with whom Mr. A. A. Gunby was on
the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
This court has jurisdiction. The Federal question was
properly presented. Kansas City Power Co. v. Julian,
215 U. S. 589; Railway Co. v. Snell, 193 U. S. 30; Hammond Packing Co. v. Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322; Leathe v.
Thomas, 207 U. S. 72; Southern R. R. Co. v. German
National Bank, 207 U. S. 270, do not apply, but see
Chambers v. Balt. & Ohio R. R. Co., 207 U. S. 142; Sullivan v. Texas, 20' U. S. 416.
The word "taxation" ifi the clause of Art. 230 of the
Louisiana conistitution of 1898, exempting new railroads
from taxation, does not embrace special taxes voted by a
parish in aid of public improvements. An exemption from
taxation must be strictly construed. 42 Ann. 1098; 116
Louisiana, 144; 11 Ann. 220.
Statutes have no retrospective effect or operation unless this purpose is announced specifically in the act. 39
Ann. 115.
Voluntary contributions, though in the nature of taxes,
do not constitute general or ordinary taxation in the
sense in which that word is ordinarily used. 104 Louisiana, 284; see also Ill. Cent. R. R. v. Decatur, 147 U. S.

ARKANSAS SOU. RY. v. LOUISIANA & ARK. RY. 433
218 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

190; Ford v. Delta & Pine Land. Co., 164 U. S. 662; 108

California, 189; 91 N. Y. 574; 12 Am. & Eng. Ency. Law,
Exemptions from Taxation, 314; Words and Phrases,
verbo Taxation, p. 6879.
Plaintiff in error had a legal contract with the taxpayers of the parish, in consideration of which its railroad
was built. That contract dated from the date on which
the special election was held and the tax voted according
to law. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cr. 137; Dartmouth College
Case, 4 Wheat. 657; Civil Code of La., §§ 1761, 2028; and
see James v. The Arkansas Southern R. R. Co., 110 Louisiana, 145.
If it had a contract, all classes of property taxable at
the time the election was held were affected by that contract, and no property in the parish of Winn, or that
might come therein, could be exempt from that special
tax without violating the Constitution of the United
States by impairing the obligation of that contract.
As the tax was voted, the railway company had an
interest in that tax; it had the right to perform certain
actions, to acquire and possess that tax by doing certain
things. This was clearly a vested right.
Not even the sovereign, the legislature, could change
the taxability of property. Tulane Education Fund v.
Board of Assessors, 38 Ann. 292, holds that the taxability
of property cannot be changed- so as to affect acquired
rights. Arkansas Southern R. R. Co. v. Wilson, 118
Louisiana, 395, holds that the tax covered all new property brought into the town.
If the constitutional convention could exempt a part
of the property covered by this tax, it coqld exempt it
all. If it could diminish, it could destroy.
The true test is whether the rights of the railroad under
its contract have been curtailed; 4 Wheat. 535; whether
its value has been diminished. 2 How. 608; 6 How. 301.
Rights under the contract, must be determined by laws
VOL. CCXVIiI-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Defendant in Error.'

218 U. S.

in force at the date of the contract. Fish v. Police Jury
of Jefferson Parish, 116 U. S. 132; and see 96 U. S. 595;
16 Wall. 314; Hunt v. Hunt, 131 U. S. Appx. clxv.
Mr. Henry Moore, Jr., with whom Mr. Henry Moore,
Mr. H. H. White and Mr. Samuel Herrick were on the
brief, for defendant in error:
The exemption from taxation of the respondent is
claimed under the constitution of 1898, adopted three
years prior to the date the Supreme Court of Louisiana
found the tax levy of the plaintiff in error became vested,
and no law or statute of Louisiana passed subsequent to
1898 is brought into this record or involved in this de,,cision.
When the state court decides against a right claimed
under a contract and there was no. law subsequent to
the contract, this court clearly has no jurisdiction. New
Orleans Water Co. v. Easton, 121 U. S. 388.
Before this court can assume jurisdiction, the decision
of the state court must show squarely that a question
arising under the Constitution or statutes of the United
States wag involved and that the decision of the state
court could not have been made without deciding the
Federal question thus raised, which cannot be shown in
this case.
Even if it should be granted that ptaintiff in error accepted the offer of the taxpayers of Winn Parish according to its terms, and had earned the said tax by completion within the time limit, yet, according to the very terms
of the said contract, the property of the respondent railroad would not be subject to said tax and the Supreme
Court of Louisiana so held.
Under § 6 of Art. 35 of 1886, under which the tax to
the plaintiff in error was voted, such tax could be levied
only upon all taxable property within the parish. Theie
was no property of the respondent railroad in Winn Par-

ARKANSAS SOU. RY. v. LOUISIANA & ARK. RY.,435
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ish at that time, and all property now belonging to it
within the parish has been brought into existence since
the year 1901. Said respondent railroad accepted the offer under the exemption clause of Art. 230 of the constitution of 1898. LeFranc v. New Orleans, 27 Ann. 188;
New Orleans v. Carondelet Canal Co., 36 Ann. 396.
To allow this clause of the constitution to be nullified
under the guise of special taxation, would, in effect, be
allowing the State of Louisiana to perpetuate a fraud
against this respondent, and this, by its decisions, the
State has refused to do. McGee v. Mathis, 4 Wall. 143.
The question as to the taxability of property in futuro was necessarily left to the determination of the sovereign State. On this point, the decision of the State
followed the well-settled jurisprudence of the State.
Tulane Educational Fund v. Board of Assessors, 38 Ann.
292; Tulane University v. Board of Assessors, 115 La. Ann.
1026. The latter held property exempt from taxation
even though it had not then been formally transferred to
the University.
The property of the respondent railroad company came
into existence under the exemption from taxation granted
in the constitution of 1898 and at no time has it been
such taxable property within the parish of Winn as that
upon which the plaintiff in error has earned the aid
voted by the taxpayers of said parish. The theory that
property once subject to taxation must always remain
so, is opposed to all the tenets of law, not only in the
State of Louisiana, but in other States of this Union.
MR.JUSTICE HoLMEs

delivered the opiniou of the court.

This is a writ of error to -reverse a decision of the Su4rfme Court of Louisiana granting an injunction to the
plaintiff, the Louisiana and Arkansas Railway Company,
the defendant in error, against the collection from it of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

a special tax in favor of the Arkansaa, Southern Railway
Company, the plaintiff in error. 121 Louisiana, 997. The
agreed facts are these. By Art. 230 of the state constitution of 1898 any railroad thereafter constructed before
January 1, 1904, was to be exempt from taxation for ten
years from completion, upon certain conditions. The
plaintiff built its road through the parish of Winn and
gained the right to the exemption. The defendant, plaintiff in error, claims its rights under a vote of the same parish
on February 1, 1898, granting a tax of five mills to a predecessor to whose rights the defendant has succeeded. This
vote was valid, and effective against all taxable property in
the parish. James v. Arkansas Southern Railway Co., 110
Louisiana, 145. Act 35, § 6, 1886. Const. 1879, Art. 242.
By its terms the grant was for ten years from the completion of the road, the Police Jury adding a condition that
the railroad should be completed into Winnfield within
three years from the date of the vote. Afterwards the
Police Jury extended the time to May 1, 1901, on or before which date and before the acquisition of its right
of way and ground by the plaintiff the road was finished.
It was accepted by the Police Jury and taxes have been
levied and paid in accordance with the vote, beginning
with the year 1901. The defendant was proceeding to
levy on the property of the plaintiff in the parish and
says that if the constitution of 1898 is construed to confer an exemption from this tax upon the plaintiff it impairs the obligation of contracts; contrary to Art. I, § 10,
of the Constitution of the United States.
The plaintiff says that there is no constitutional question before this court because the Supreme Court of Louisiana put its decision partly upon the ground that the
defendant had not acquired all of its contract rights before the adoption of the constitution of 1898. Of course
this court must satisfy itself upon that point and therefore has jurisdiction. Sullivan v. Texas, 207 U. S.416,

ARKANSAS SOU. RY. v. LOUISIANA & ARK. RY. 437
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

423. On the other hand the defendant asks us to review
the construction given to the state constitution as extending the immunity granted by the above-mentioned
Art. 230 to special taxes like this. Upon that point,
equally of course, we follow the state court. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 183 U. S. 503,
508; Missouri v. Dockery, 191 U. S. 165, 171. Leaving.
these preliminaries behind we come to the point of the
case.
We shall not consider whether the vote is to be regarded
as having been simply an offer at the time of its passage
in consideration' of acts to be done thereafter, and as having become a contract only when the road was finished,
that is to say, after the constitution of 1898 went into
effect. See Wadsworth v. Supervisors, 102 U. S. 534, 538,
539. We shall assume, without deciding, that it became*
binding at once, by-statut6ry authority, after the analogy
of a covenant, see Wisconsin & Michigan Ry. C&. v. Powers, 191 U. S. 379, 386, although liable to be deteated by
the non-performance of the condition attached. We assume also that the condition was satisfied and the right
to the tax earned, and that when earned it had the same
validity and force as if it had been gained before the constitution was adopted. It appears further from what we
have stated that when the right to the tax accrued the
land now in the hands of the plaintiff's road was liable
to taxation. But these facts and assumptions are not
enough to make out the defendant's case.
No doubt 'a State might limit its control over the power
of a municipal body to tax by authorizing it to make contracts on the faith of its existing powers, Wolff v. New
Orleans, 103 U. S. 358, Hubert v. New Orleans, 215 U. S.
170, although unless it did limit itself with a certain distinctness of implication a subordinate body would con-tract subject, not paramount, to the power of the State.
Manigault v. Springs, 199 U. S. 473, 480; Knoxville Water

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
SXllabus.

218 .. S.

Co. v. Knoxville, 189 U. S. 434, 438. But there is,no such
limitation by the State and no contract by the parish
that implies it. An authority given by the State to promise and levy a tax in future years on the taxable property
in the parish does not purport to limit the power of the
State to say what property shall be taxable when' the time
comes-at least by general regulations not aimed at aiding
an evasion of the promise it has allowed. A vote by a
parish to pay five mills on all the taxable property within
its boundaries refers on its face to a determination by the
sovereign as to what that property shall be. See Arkansas
Soulhern R. R. Co. v. Wilson, 118 Louisiana, 395, 401.
The notion that the statute and the vote separately or
together precluded the State from erecting a jail that
should be free from such claims is untenable on its face.
The same reasoning allows the State to go farther, as it
has done. We agree with the Supreme Court that it did
not transgress the Constitution of the United States.
Dqcree affirmed.

FISHER v. CITY OF NEW ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF'THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 43.

Argued November 9, 10, 1910.-Decided Novenber 28, 1910.

The jurisdiction of this court, under the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution, extends to doing away with the interference of a later
law impairing the cotitract,-but not to remedying erroneous con-struction of the original contract or to seeing that it is carried
out according to the interpretation of this court, apart from it.
There is nothing in this case that takes it out of the general rule above
stated.
Whether or not delay constitutes laches is for the state court to aecide.
Writ of error to review 121 Louisiana, 762, dismissed.

