OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

218 U. S.

proceeding without the authority of legislative enactment. The taking of private property by an bfficer of the
United States for public use, without being authorized,
expressly or by necessary implication, to do so by some
act of Congress, is not the act of the Government. So
that whether we look at the jurisdiction of the court below, in respect either of claims alleged to be founded upon
the Constitution or to arise from contract, the plaintiffs
cannot "r aintain this suit against the Government; for,
they have received the entire sums which Congress appropriated to be paid out of the Treasury on account of
rent of buildings or quarters for the Civil Service Commission.
There are other aspects of the case to which the elaborate arguments of counsel have been directed. We deem
it unnecessary to notice them in this opinion. Nor do
we deem it necessary to follow them in their extended and
able discussion of the authorities.
The judgment must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

CINCINNATI, INDIANAPOLIS AND WESTERN
RAILWAY COMPANY v., CITY OF CONNERSVILLE.
ERROR TO-MTE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
INDIANA.
-No. 19.

Submitted October 25, 1910.-Decided.November 28, 1910.

A railway corporation accepts its franchise from the State subject to
the condition that it will conformat its own expense to any regulations as -to the opening or use of streets which are, reasonable and
proper and have for their object public safety and convenience and
which may, from time to time, be established by'the municipality,

CINCINNATI, I. & W. RY. v. CONNERSVILLE. 337
218 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

within whose limits the company operates, proceeding under legislative authority.
The power, whether called police, governmental or legislative, exists in
each State, by appropriate legislation not forbidden by its own, or the
Federal, constitution'to regulate the relative rights and duties of
all persons and corporations within its jurisdiction, and, therefore,
to provide for the public good and convenience. Lake Shore &
Michigan Southern Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285, 298.
A railway company is not deprived of its property without due process
of law either under the Fifth or the Fourteenth Amendment because in a street opening proceeding it is not awarded, in addition
to the value of the land taken, the cost of the new structure which
must necessarily be erected to carry its right of way over the street,
as required for the safety and convenience of the public.
170 Indiana, 316, affirmed..
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the Fourteenth Amendment of proceedings of a street
opening through a railway embankment, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. John B. Elam, with whom Mr. James Fesler,
Mr. Harvey J. Elam and Mr. Reuben Conner were on the,
brief, for plaintiff in error:
A right was claimed under the United States Constitution and the highest court of Indiana in its opinion expressly denied that right, hence this court has jurisdiction.
Haire v. Rice, 204 U. S. 291; San Jose Land Co. v. San
Jose Ranch Co., 189 U. S. 177; Green Bay &c. v. Patten,
172 U. S. 58.
The Fourteenth Amendment requires that when property is taken by power of eminent domain compensation
must be made to the owner. C., B. & Q. Ry, v. Chicago,
166 U. S. 226.
When part of an entire property is taken under the
power of eminent domain, the owner is entitled to compensation on account of what is taken and also for injury to what remains. Chicago Ry. Co. v. Huncheon, 130
VOL. ccxvill-22

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

218 U. S.

Indiana, 529; Chicago &c. Co. v. Hunter, 128 Indiana,
213; ,White v. Chicago Co., 122 Indiana, 317; Rehman v.
New Albany R. R. Co., 8 Ind. App. 200.
The measure of damages is the difference between the
value of the entire property before the appropriation and
of what remains immediately after such appropriation.
Sidener v. Essex, 22 Indiana, 201; Fifer v. Ritter, 159
Indiana, 8; Louisville &c. Co. v. Sparks, 12 Ind. App.
410; Sunnyside Co. v. Reitz, 14 Ind. App. 478; Lake Erie
R. R. Co. v. Lee, 14 Ind. App. 328.
When part of an entire property is taken under the
power of eminent domain, the owner must be compensated for what is taken and for damages. to that which
remains, and unless this is done, such owner is deprived
of his property without just compensation, without due
process of law, and is denied the equal protection of the
laws within the meaning of the Fifth and Fourteenth
Amendments. In re Street Opening (Mich.), 26 N. W. Rep.
159"' Vllage v. Pere Marquette Co. (Mich.), 102 N. W. Rep.
947; Ch'ago &c. Co. v. Springfield &c., Co., 67 Illinois,
142; St. Louis,.&c. Co. v. Springfield &c. Co., 96 Illinois,
274; Chicago &'c. Co. v. Jacobs, 110 Illinois, 4f4; Robb
v. Maysville &c. Co., 60 Kentucky, 117; Lake Shore &c.
Co. V. Chicago &c. Co., 100 Illinois, 21; Chicago &c. Co.
v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226; Commissioners v. Michigan &c.
Co. (Mich.), 51 N. W. Rep. 934; Commissioners v. Canada
&c. Co. (Mich.), 51 N. W. Rep. 447.
When property of a raiIroad company is taken for another public use, "the same rules asto Oompensation apply as in the case of an individual owner. Lake Shore &c.
Co. v. Chicago &c. Co., 100 Illinois, 21, 31; Chicago &c.
Co. v. Englewood &c. Co., 115 Illinois, 375, 384..
When property that has a peculiar value to the owner
on account of its being devoted and adapted to a particular use is taken for a public use the owner should be
compensated for such taking by assessing damages at

CINCINNATI, I. & W. RY. v. CONNERSVILLE. 339
,18 U. S.

such value.

Argument for Plaintiff in Ei'ror.

Ohio Valley Co. v. Keith, 130 Indiana, 314;

Price v. St. Paul &c. Co., 27 Wisconsin, 98; King v.
Minneapolis &c. Co., 32 Minnesota, 224; Dupuis v. Chicago &c. Co., 115 Illinois, 97; Chicago "&c. Co. v. Chicago
&c. Co., 112.Illinois, 580; Denver &c. Co. v. Gri'fth (Colo.),
31 Pac. Rep. 171; Cincinnati' &c. Co. v. Longworth, 30
Otiio St. 108; Shenango &c. Co. v. Braham, 79 Pa. St. 447;
Sutherland on Damages, ยง 1074.
When a street is opened, as this was, through an embankment which is part of a railroad right of way, the damages
caused to the railroad company should include the expense of the -changes necessarily ahd proximately resulting from such removal. Baltimore fc. Co. v. State, 159
Indiana, 510; Cincinnati &c. Co. v. City, 68 Ohio St. 510;
City v. Grand Rapids &c.Co. (Mieh.), 33 N. W. Rep. 15; St.
Louis &c. Co. v. Springfield &c. Co., 96 Illinois, 274; Colusa County v. Hudson, 85 California, 633; Terre Haute &c.
Co. v. Crawford, 100 Indiana, 550; Lake Erie '&c. Co. v.
Commissioners, 63 Ohio St. 23; Morris &c. Co. v. City

(N. J.), 43 Atl. Rep. 730.
The expense of substitution of a bridge to carry a
track over a street, which will in no way add to safety or
cqnvenience is not one that a railroad company can be
required to inbur under the exercise of the police power.
If the damages awarded for the street opening -do not
include the expense of such struc ;ure, then its property is
'taken without just compensation and without due process
of law. Lake View v. Rose &c.Co., 70 Illinois, 191; Ritchie
v. People, 155 Illinois, 98; Chicago &c. Co. v. City, 140
Illinois, 309; Morris &c. Co. v. 'City (N. J.), 43 Atl. Rkep.
730; Lake Erie &c. Co. y. Shelley, 163 Indiana, 36; Chicago
&c. Co. v. People, 200 U. S. 561; Lewis on Eminent Domain, ยง6.
The following authorities are to be distinguished: C.,
B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S.. 226; C., B. & Q.
Ry. Co. v. Drainage Commissioners, 200 U. S. 561; North-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

ern &c. Co. v. Minnesota, 208 U. S. 583; Lake Erie &c. Co.
v. Shelley, 163 Indiana, 36; So. Ind. Railway Co. v. McCarrell, 163 Indiana, 469; Chicago &c. Co. v. State, 158
Indiana, 189; Chicago &c. Co. v. Zimmerman, 158 Indiana, 189; Vandalia &c. Co. v. State ex rel., 466 Indiana,
219; Chicago &c. Co. v. State, 159 Indiana, 237.
The statute of the State of Indiana upon which the
Supreme Court of Indiana -relied cannot be so construed
without making it conflict with the Fourteenth Amendinent. Every railroad corporation in Indiana possesses
by statute the general powers, subject to liabilities and
restrictions, to construct its road upon or across any
stream of water, water- course, road, highway, railroad or
canal, so as not to interfere with the free use of the same
which the route of its road shall intersect, in such manner as to afford security for life and property; but the
corporation shall restore the stream or water-course, road
or highway, this intersected, to its former state, or in- a
sufficient manner not to unnecessarily impair its useful*Aess or injure its franchises. 2 Burns' R. S., 1901, ยง 5153;
/State ex rel. v. Indianapolis&c., 160 Indiana, 145.
Mr. R. N. Elliott, with whom Mr. Hyatt L. Frost,
Mr. Charles F. Jones and Mr. David W. McKee were on
the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Common Council of Connersville, Indiana, adopted
a resolution declaring that a railway embankment, maintained by the Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Western
Railway Company, the plaintiff in error, across Grand
Avenue, in that city, obstructed passage between the
north and south ends of the avenue; also, that such
avenue should, as a matter of public necessity, be opened
as a public street through said railroad embankment.

CINCINNATI, I. & W. RY. v. CONNERSVILLE. 341
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The question of the expediency, advisability and public
utility of opening up the avenue through the embankment was thereupon -referred to the City Commissioners,
and to the Council's Committee on Streets, Alleys and
Bridges, for action. Upon consideration of the matter
at a time of which public notice was duly given, and after
an examination of the ground .sought to be appropriated, the Commissioners reported that the opening of the
avenue through the railroad embankment A -uld be of
public utility. The report stated that the real estate to
be appropriated by the opening of the avenu, was so
much of the railroad embankment as extended the entire
width of the avenue, as then used and opened, immediately
north and south of such embankment. The tract sought
to be appropriated was 66 feet square and was occupied
by the embankment. The Commissioners found and
reported that no real estate would be damaged by the
proposed opening other than that sought to be appropriated, and that the real estate abutting on both sides
of the avenue would be benefited by the proposed opening
of the street. There was a hearing-after due notice to
all parties concerned, including the railroad companyof the question of injuries and benefits to the property
to be 'appropriated, and of the benefits and damages to
all real estate resulting from the opening of the avenue.\
The result of the hearing was a report by the City Com-'
missioners in favor of the opening, and the value of the
real estate sought to be appropriated was estimated at
$150.
The. City Council adopted the report of the Commissioners, and appropriated for the purpose *of opening
Grand Avenue the real estate described in th report as
.necessary to such opening-the property here in question
'being a part of that to be appropriated. The Council
also directed that a certified copy of so much of the report as assessed benefits aid damqges be delivered to the

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. 8.

Treasurer of the city, and copied in full on the -records
of the Council with the miriute of the adoption of the
resolution describing the real estate appropriated.
There were various exceptions by the railway company and by the city, followed by a trial before a jury
which found for the railway company and assessed its
damages at $800. A motion by the company for a new
trial having been overruled and a judgment entered for
the defendant company, in the state court of original
jurisdiction, the case was carried to the Supreme Court of
Indiana (which affirmed the judgment) and it is now
here for a reexamination as to certain Federal questions
raised by the railway company.
It was not disputed at the trial that the improvement
of. Grand Avenue, as ordered by the city. of Connersville, made it necessary to construct a bridge over and
across the avenue as reconstructed.
The trial court -gave the following, among other instructions, to the jury: "It being the duty of the defendant railroad company to construct and keep in safe and
good conditiori all highway crossings, che defendant in
this action would not be entitled to any damages for
constructing the necessary.,crossing nor abutments and
bridge for supporting its railroad over and across said
street when constructed."
It. refused to give this instruction asked by the railway company: "If the appropriation of the defendant's
property under the proceedings set forth in this case will
necessarily and proximately cause expense to the defendant in constructing a bridge to carry its railroad over the
proposed street in order that its railroad tracks may
have support and its railroad may be operated as such,
and as an entire line, and such construction of said bridge
will be required for no other purpose, then, in determining the defendant's damages, you' should consider the
expepse of constructing such bridge."

CINCINNATI, I. & W. RY. v. CONNERSVILLE. 343
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The railway company duly excepted to 'this action of
the trial court, but the Supleme Court of Indiana held
that there was no error.
There are twenty assignments of error, accompanied
by an extended brief of argument. In addition, a great
many authorities are cited by the learned counsel for the
railway company. If we should deal with each assigninent and argument separately, and enter upon a critical
examination of the authorities cited, this opinion would
be of undue length. We think the case is within a very
narrow compass. This seems to be the view of learned
counsel of the plaintiff in error, for, after a general reference to various questions raised at the trial, counsel say
that "the case upon final analysis reduces itself to the
question whether the police power [of the State] can be
so applied as to require the railroad company to build
the bridge without compensation."
If the railway company was not entitled to compensation on account of the construction of this bridgewhether regard be had to the Fifth or the Fourteenth
Amendments of the Constitution or to the general reserved
police power of the State--then it is clear that the jury
were not misdirected as to what should be considered by
them in estimating the damages which, under the law,
the railway company was entitled to recover.
The question as to the right of the railway company
to be reimbursed for any moneys necessarily expended
in constructing the bridge in question is, we think, concluded by former decisions of this court; particularly by
C., B. & Q. Railway v. Drainage Com'rs, 200 U. S. 562,
582, 584, 591; N. 0. Gas Co. v. DrainageCom'rs, 197 U. S.
453; N. Y. & N. E. R. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556,
571; C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 254;
Transportation Co. v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635. See also
Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364. The
railway company accepted its franchise from the State,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

subject necessarily. to the condition that it would conform at its own expense to any regulations, not arbitrary
in their character, as to the opening or use of streets,
which had for their object the safety of the public, or
the promotion of the public convenience, and which
might, from time to time, be established by the municipality, when proceeding under legislative authority-within
whose limits the company's business was 'conducted.
This court has said that "the power, whether called
police, governmental or legislative, exists in each State,
by appropriate enactments not forbidden by its own
constitution or by the Constitution of the United States,
to regulate the relative rights and duties of all persons
and corporations within its jurisdiction, and therefore to
provide for the public convenience and the public good."
Lake Shore &c. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S.285, 297.
Without further discussion, and without referring to
other matters mentioned by counsel, we adjudge upon
the authority of former cases, that there was no error in
holding that the city could not be compelled to reimburse the railway company for the cost of the bridge in
question.
Judgment affirmed.

