OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

218 U. S,

UNITED STATES v. HEINZE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 380.

Argued November 3, 1910.-Decided December 5, 1910.

Where the Circuit Court held the indictment insufficient because the
facts alleged did not constitute a crime under the statute as it held
that the latter should be construed, this court has jurisdiction of an
appeal by the Government under the act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564,
34 Stat. 1246.
Where the indictment charges an officer of a national bank with willful
misapplication of funds of the bank, induced by, and resulting in,
his advantage, with the illegal intent to injure and defraud the bank
by receiving and discounting with its moneys an absolutely unsecured promissory note of a named party whereby the proceeds
of the discount of the note were wholly lost to the bank, it sufficiently charges a violation of § 5209, Rev. Stat. It is not necessary
to allege conversion by the officer of the bank and also by the recipient of the proceeds of the discount.
A charge that a note for an amount was received for discount which
was wholly unsecured and which sum was lost to the bank amounts
to a direct allegation that the loss was caused by the discounting.
A right of appeal is not essential to due process of law, Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S. 505, and neither due process of law nor equal protection of the law is denied to the accused by the act of March 2,
1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, giving the Government an appeal to
this court under certain conditions from judgments sustaining demurrers to, or motions to quash, indictments because the same. appeal is not allowed to the accused in case the demurrer or motion
to quash is overruled.
Even if, and not now decided, the equal protection provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment apply to the United States, it can have no
broader meaning when so applied than when aliplied to the States;
and even if Congress may not discriminate in legislation, it has the
power to classify and the classification in, the act of March 2, 1907,
is well within such power.
161 Fed. Rep. 425, reversed.
THE

facts, which involve the validity of an indictment

UNITED STATES v. HEINZE.
218 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

for misapplication of funds of a national bank under § 5209;
Rev. Stat., are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney-General Fowler for the United
States:
A brief prepared by the late Solicitor General, Mr. Lloyd
W. Bowers, was filed for the United States.
No wrongful-act or purpose-on the. part of any other
person than the indicted bank officer or agent himself is
essential to the offense of willful misapplication of the
bank's funds under Rev. Stat., § 5209. Evans v. United
States, 153 U. S.584, 593, 594; United States v. Corbett,
215 U. S. 233, 243; United States v. Simmons, 96 U. S.
360, 364.
The statute reaches misapplication of the bank's funds
to the use or for the benefit of others than the bank officer
or agent himself. United States v. Britton, 107 U. S.
655.
It is contrary to the general rule of criminal law and of
morality that anybody should be held guilty or innocent
by any other test than his own acts and his own intent.
The Coffin cases, 156 U. S. 432; and 162 U. S. 664; Putnam v. United States, 162 U. S. 687.
The third person whose note is discounted and to whom
the proceeds of the discount are first paid need not be
guilty when the indictment alleges that the misapplication is made "for the use, benefit and advantage of" the
bank
and other persons.
Theofficer
statute does not mention conversion at
all; and no
act of technical conversion by the bank officer or agent
himself is necessary to the offense of willful misapplication
of the bank's funds unless the application of such funds
by another than the bank, in violation of the official trust
or agency and with an actual intent to defraud the bank,
is necessarily, also' a conversion under the common law.
The true nature of. the offense is clear; and the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

218 U. S.

whether it also amounts to a conversion is really unimportant.
The statute itself enumerates the essential elements of
the offense which it denounces, to wit: actual misapplication of bank assets from the bank to another which is beyond the true authority of the transferring bank officer
or agent; a conscious disregard of his duty to the bank by
its officer or agent in making the transfer; an intent on the
part of the bank officer or agent who makes the transfer
to injure or defraud the bank or somebody else.
If these things coexist, the statute says that the offense
is committed. United States v. Fish, 24 Fed. Rep. 585.
Possession of the misapplied funds by the offending
agent of the bank is not requisite. United States v. Northway, 120 U. S. 327. See also as to indictments for willful
misapplication, C/aasen v. United States, 142 U. S. 140;
Batchelor v. United States. 156 U. S. 426; Agnew v. United
States, 165 U. S. 36.
Each of the fifteen counts of the indictment which the
Circuit Court condemned charges every element of the
statutory offense.
General allegation of the williulness of the misapplication and of the bank officer's intent to injure or defraud
is enough. Evans v. United States, 153 U. S. 584, 593,
594; United States v. Corbett, 215 U. S. 293 ,: 243; United
States v. Simmons, 96 U. S. 360, 364.
The misapplication need not be for the use or benefit
of defendant himself. United States v. Britton, 107 U. S.
665, 669; Coffin v. United States, 156 U. S. 432; and 162
U. S. 664.
Actual loss to the bank is unnecessary. It is enough
that the transaction was unauthorized and had an evil
purpose when it occurred, though the bank finally receives payment. United States v. Evans, 153 U. S. 591;
United States v. Morse, 161 Fed. Rep. 429, 435.
Whether or not the statutory offense always involves a

UNITED STATES v. HEINZE.
218 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

conversion of the bank's property by its unfaithful officer
or agent, such conversion is shown by the indictment in
this case. Vasse v.. Smith, 6 Cranch, 226; Kitchen v.
Bedford, 13 Wall. 413; White v. Wall, 40 Maine, 574;
Laverty v. Snethen, 68 N. Y. 522, 524.
Mr. John C. Tomlinson and Mr. Aldis B. Browne, with
whom Mr. John B. Stanchfield was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The pending writ of error is not within the act of
March 2, 1907, and should be dismissed. United States v.
Keitel, 211 U. S. 370, does not apply; and see United
States v. Stevenson, 215 U. S. 190, 195.
Under the act of March 2, 1907, the right of review in
this court is conferred upon the plaintiff-the United
States-alone in cases involving construction of the Federal laws, while denying it to the defendant in every form
and at every stage of the case where not involving a capital
crime. The right is wholly unilateral. It opens the doors
of this court to the United States as one partyto the cause
only, and denies the same privilege to the defendant.
This, is not due process of law under the Fifth Amendment. The Sinking Fund, 99 U. S. 700; Murray v.
Hoboken Land Co., 18 How. 272, 278; Holden v. Hardy,
169 U. S. 366, 391; People v. King, 110 N. Y. 418; Chicago
Ry. Co. v. Moss & Co., 60 Mississippi, 641, 646.
The act of March 2, 1907, is inoperative in so far as it
seeks to confer upon the United States alone the right of
review of questions which the defendant may not at any
stage of his case bring before this honorable. court for
final hearing and judgment. Where the United States
seeks to assert such an exclusive privilege- there is necessarily denial of "due process of law."
The contention contra is aided by the language of
Art. III of the Constitution.
Nor is the privilege to be thus given to the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

218 U. S.

States upon any idea that as sovereign the Government
may enjoy such opportunity of review which is denied to
the defendant. That is obnoxious to every principle of
justice and fair dealing.
This court -has not jurisdiction of this appeal as the
court below did not attempt to construe, nor did it construe, § 5209, Rev. Stat. The opinion does not discuss the
statute, but the indictment as a pleading, and finds that
it was insufficient as there was no allegation in the counts
stating to whom the proceeds of the discount were actually
paid by the bank; there was no allegation in the counts
stating to whom the demand notes were payable; no statement that payment of the notes had ever been demanded;
that the notes had not been paid or that the makers were
in default; that the loss to the bank was due to the discounts; or that the makers of the notes were then, or at
the time of the discounts, insolvent or unable to pay their
obligations.
Omissions in an indictment cannot be supplied by intendment or implication, and where the crime is a statutory one it must be charged with precision and certainty,
and every ingredient of which it is composed must be
clearly and accurately set forth. United States v. Hess,
124 U. S. 483; Pettibone v. United States, 148 U. S. 197;
Ledbetter v. United States, 170 U. S. 606; Morse on Banks,
4th ed., 138, 139-162; Pape v. Capitol Bank, 20 Kansas,
440; Atlantic State Bank v. Sereny, 18 Hun, 36; Tracy v.
Tailmage, 18 Barb. 462; Merritt v. Todd, 23 N. Y. 28.
No action for conversion would lie against the "recipient
of the discount proceeds," for nowhere is it alleged who
the recipient of the discount proceeds was, and a conversion can only arise where there is an unlawful taking; or,
if the original taking were lawful, an unlawful detention.
If it be assumed that the court did construe § 5209, the
construction is correct. United States v. Britton, 107 U. S.
665; United States v. Northway, 120 U. S. 327; Evans v.

UNITED STATES v. HEINZE.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

United States, 153 U. S. 584; Coffin v. United States, 156
U. S. 432, all sustain the court below to the effect that
"conversion" is an essential element of the offense; and
on this point see United States v. Fish, 24 Fed. Rep. 585,
587; United States v. Harper, 33 Fed. Rep. 471, 473;
United States v. Youtsey, 91 Fed. Rep. 864, 866; Jewett v.
United States, 100 Fed. Rep. 832, 837; United States v..
Eastman, 132 Fed. Rep. 551, 552; Geiger v. United States,
162 Fed. Rep. 844, 847; United States v. Martindale, 146
Fed. Rep. 281, 289; Fleckinger v. United States, 150 Fed.
Rep. 1, 2; Dickson v. United States, 159 Fed. Rep. 801.
The established construction of statutes by officers
charged with proceeding under them, is entitled to respect.
United States v. Carll, 105 U. S. 611; Keck v. United States,
172 U. S. 434; United States v. Evans, 153 U. S. 587;
see Dunbarv. United States, 156 U. S. 185, 190; Walrod v.
Ball, 9 Barb. 271, 276; Potter v. Merchants' Bank, 28
N. Y. 641, 655.
There is no allegation of insolvency, and as it is the law
that solvency is to be presumed, the indictment is bad
and under MacKnight v. United States, 115 Fed. Rep.
972, 984, the bank received upon the discount "a good
note" which the makers "could be made to pay."
Such words as "fraud," "conspiracy," "with intent to
defraud," "corruptly" and words of similar import, cannot be used as predicating criminality of facts which in
themselves show no criminality. Ambler v. Choteau, 107
U. S. 586; United States v. Des Moines Co., 142 U. S. 544;
Batchelor v. 'United States, 156 U. S. 426; United States v.
Eno, 56 Fed. Rep. 218, 220.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a writ of error directed to review the ruling of
the Circuit Court upon a demurrer to an indictment
agAinst defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

The indictment contains sixteen counts, charging him
with willful misapplication of funds of the Mercantile
National Bank of New York city, in violation of §5209
of the Revised. Statutes. The demurrer was sustained as
to fifteen counts; and the United States has brought the
case here by virtue of the act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564,
providing for writs of error in certain instances in criminal cases, among which instances is a decision or judgment sustaining a demurrer to an indictment, "where
such decision or judgment is based upon the invalidity or
construction of the statute upon which the indictment is
founded." 34 Stat. 1246.
The averments of the first count may be taken as an
example of all. It averred that Heinze was the president
of the bank, and that by "virtue of his official relation to
it as its president, and by virtue of the power- of control,
direction and management," which as president he had
over its moneys, funds and credits, he "willfully, wrongfully, unlawfully and with intent to injure and defraud"
it "and divers others persons to the grand jurors unknown," and without the knowledge and consent of it or
.of its board of" directors And committees, for his use. and
benefit and advantage, and of other persons to the grand
jurors'unknown, misapplied certain of its moneys, funds
and credits, to wit, the sum of $100,000, by receiving and
discounting with its moneys, etc., a certain promissory
note (the names of the drawers being given) for -the sum
of $100,000, payable on demand, and Which note when so
received and discounted "was not thefi and there well
secured, and, in fact, was not secured at all," which fact
he knew, and which amount, it being the proceeds of the
discount of the note, was wholly lost to the bank.
The other counts charge the misapplication of the funds
of the bank in the same way, the amounts and makers of
the notes discounted being different. And it is alleged of
some of them, not that they were not secured at all, but
-

UNITED STATES v. HEINZE.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that they were at the time of discount "not well secured."
A total loss to the bank of the respective amounts is
alleged.
The demurrer is almost as voluminous as the indictment. It alleges defects and uncertainties, and even repugnances in the indictment. In the brief of counsel
emphasis is given to the following: That there is no allegation to whom the proceeds of the discount were paid by
the bank, nor to whom the notes were payable; that there
is no statement that payment of the notes had been demanded, or that they had not been paid, or that the
makers were in default, or that the loss to the bank was
due to the discounts, or that the makers of the notes were
then or at the time of the discounts insolvent or unable
to pay their obligations.
The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer to the first
fifteen counts.
Section 5209, the section for the violation of which the
indictment was found, is part of the provisions for the
regulation of national banking associations, anu provides
as follows: "Every president, director . . . or agent
of any association who . . . willfully misapplies any
of the moneys, funds or credits of the association .
with intent . . . to injure or defraud the association . . . or any individual person, and every person
who with like intent aids or abets any officer . . . in
any violation of this section, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor."
For its general reasons in support of its ruling on the
demurrer the court referred to its opinion in United
States v. Morse, 161 Fed. Rep. 427, and to the views
expressed on the first indictment against defendant.
161 Fed. Rep. 425. As to the pending indictment, it was
said:
"This indictment seems to me to charge in ounts 1-15
this and no more, viz., that with intent to defraud the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

bank, of which he was president, and for the benefit of
himself and others unnamed, defendant caused the bank
to discount single name commercial paper and the bank
lost the amount paid on the discount."
And it was further said:
"The crime of which the defendant is guilty, if guilty
at all, is 'willful misapplication.' The one characteristic
or essential of this crime, on which the Supreme Court
has always insisted, is conversion; no method of being
guilty without converting the money, funds or credits of
the bank has been pointed out. This word 'conversion'
has supplied the legal measure which the court has not
been able to find in 'willful misapplication.'
"If the facts stated in an indictment do not set forth
a case of conversion, the indictment is bad, and a general
allegation of wrongful intent will not cure it.
"Taking the first count, for example, could the bank
have maintained an action for conversion against the recipient of the discount proceeds under the facts stated?
I think'not, and am therefore of opinion that counts 1-15
are demurrable."
It is contended by defendant that the ruling of the
Circuit Court was not a construction of §5209, Rev. Stat.,
but only a determination of the sufficiency of the indictment, and that the writ of error should be dismissed.
We are unable to concur in that view. The court expressly
ruled that the crime of which the defendant was guilty,
if guilty at all, was "willful misapplication," and that the
essential ingredient of that is "conversion," and made so
by the statute. And not only conversion by the officers
of the bank, but by the person receiving the proceeds of
the discount. The indictment was held insufficient because the facts alleged in it did not constitute such double
conversion, that is, it did not constitute a crime under the
statute as the latter should be construed. The motion to
dismiss is, therefore, denied.

UNITED STATES v. HEINZE.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We are, therefore, brought to the merits, and the first
contention of 'defendant (and for convenience in discussion we use his contentions rather than those of the
United States, although the decision below was against
the latter), is that if the Circuit Court did consider the
statute its construction was correct.
A willful misapplication of the funds of a bank is the
essence of the crime, it is urged, and that the decision of
this court has defined what constitutes a willful misapplication and that the facts alleged in the indictment do not
fulfill the definition. The following cases are cited to
sustain the contention: United States v. Britton, 107 U. S.
665; United States v. Northway, 120 U. S.327;. Evans v.
United States, 153 U. S. 548; Coffin v. United States, 156
U. S. 432, and certain cases in the Circuit Courts and
Circuit Courts of Appeals.
Before examining these cases it will be well to revert to
the averments of the indictment to see what exactly it
charges. It charges that the defendant was the president
of the bank and as such, having control of and possession
of its funds, willfully, wrongfully, unlawfully, and with
intent to injure and defraud it, and, for his use, benefit
and advantage, misapplied certain of its funds. A willful
misapplication of the funds of the bank is charged and
that it was induced by and'resulted in a benefit and advantage to defendant. This is a direct accusation of
wrongdoing through his office, and the precise manner by
which it was accomplished is averred to have 'been with
the illegal intent to injure and defraud the bank by. receiving and discounting with its moneys an absolutely unsecured promissory note of a named partnership, whereby
the proceeds of the discount of the note were whollv lost
to the bank.
We may now turn to the cases. In United States v.
Britton, 107 U. S. 655, it was decided that the "misapplication made'an offense by this statute means a misappli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

cation for the use, benefit or gain of the party charged, or
some one other than the association. And further, that
to constitute the offense "there must be a conversion to his
own use or the use of some one else of the moneys and
funds of the association by the party charged."
The Britton case was referred to in United States v.
Northway, 120 U. S. 327, as holding that it was of the
essence of the criminality of the misapplication that there
should be a conversion of the funds to the use of the defendant or of some person other than the association,
with intent to injure or defraud the association. This
case has further instruction. It makes a distinction between embezzlement and a willful misapplication of the
funds. There may be a willful misapplication of the funds,
it is said, even though the officer have not the actual possession of them. He may have such control and power of
management "as to direct an application of the funds in
such manner and under such circumstances as to constitute an offense." A count in an indictment was sustained
which charged the misapplication to have been Made by
causing funds to be paid out to the use and benefit of the
officer indicted in an unauthorized and unlawful purchase
of the shares of stock of certain stock companies, without
the knowledge and consent of the association, and with
intent to injure it.
Evans v. United States, 153 U. S. 584, 592, was also a case
of alleged violation of §5209, where the sufficiency of an indictment was considered. Evans was indicted for aiding
and abetting the cashier in a willful misapplication of the
funds of the bank. The misapplication was described to
be the unlawful receiving and discounting with the money
and funds of the bank with intent to defraud the bank,
and for the use, etc., of Evans, a note made by Evans,
which when so discounted "was not then and there well
secured," which he and the cashier well knew, and which
note was never paid, by reason of which the bank suffered

UNITED STATES v. HEINZE.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

loss in that amount, with intent in Evans to injure and
defraud the bank. It was said:
"While the mere discount of an unsecured note, even
if the maker and the officer making the discount knew it
was not secured, would not necessarily be a crime, if the
maker believed that he would be able to provide for it
at maturity; yet if his original intent was to procure the
note to be discounted in order to defraud the bank, as
charged in this count, every element of criminality is
present.

.

.

The criminality really depends upon the

question whether there was, at the time of the discount, a
deliberate purpose on the part of the defendant to defraud.
the bank of the amount.

.

.

No averment was nec-

essary that such -discount was procured by fraudulent
means, since the offense consisted not in the use of fraudulent means, but in the discount of a note which both parties knew to be unsecured with intent thereby to defraud
the bank. An averment that Evans was at the time insolvent, or knew himself to be so, was also unnecessary in
view of the allegation that Evans knew that the note was
unsecured, and procured the same to be discounted with
intent to defraud the bank."
It was said that weight must be given to the words
"knowingly, willfully and unlawfully and fraudulently"
and "to the general allegation of an attempt to defraud."
Pages 592 and 593.
fn Coffin v. United States, 156 U. S. 432, the crime of the
misapplication of funds was again considered. One of the
contentions of the defendant was that certain counts in .the
indictment were insufficient, because they failed to aver
the actual conversion of the sum misapplied to the use of
any particular person. The proposition that the law
required an actual conversion was yielded to, and that
there must be an averment of it. The indictment was
considered and held sufficient, as it described the conversion to consist of paying money out of the funds of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

bank to a designated person when that person was not
entitled to take the funds, and that, owing to the insolvency of such person, the money was lost to the bank.
These cases established that there must be, to constitute a misapplication of the funds of the bank, a conversion, but it may be by the officer alone. The words of
United States v. Britton are that "there must be a conversion to his own use or the use of some one else of the
moneys and funds of the association by the party charged."
And this is repeated in United States v. Northway. The
language of the Britton case is repeated in the Evans case,
but it was said that the offense consisted not in the use of
fraudulent means, but in the discount of a note which
both parties knew to be unsecured, with the intent to
defraud the bank. In Coffin v. United States, conversion
of the funds was again recognized as necessary to constitute the offense. In that case the willful misapplication
was alleged to have been done "with intent to convert
the same to the use of the Indianapolis Cabinet Company," whose check was paid, though it had no funds in
the bank. And such averment, it was said, stated the
misapplication and actual conversion of money by the
methods described, that is to say, by paying it out of the
funds of the bank to a designated person when that person was not entitled to take the funds, and that owing to
the insolvency of such person the money was lost to the
bank. And in the same case, in 162 U. S. 664, 669, it is
said that "the primary object of the statute was to protect the bank from the acts of its own servants."
It follows from these citations that the Circuit Court
erred in considering as necessary, not only that there
should be alleged a conversion by the officer of the bank,
but also by the recipient of the proceeds of the discount.
The conversion may be to the use of either, and the indictment fulfills the requirement. It charged that Heinze,
being president of the bank and having control of its

UNITED STATES v. HEINZE.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the CoWrt.

funds, with intent to injure and defraud it received and
discounted the note of $10,000, knowing that it was not
secured at all, and which was wholly lost to the bank.
And it was charged this was done for his "use, benefit
and advantage." This charges a conversion as explicitly
as it was charged in Coffin v. United States, 156 U. S. 432,
"that is to say," to quote the language of that case, "by
paying money out of the funds of the bank to a designated
person when that person was not entitled to take the
funds," with the consequence that the money was lost to
the bank. And it was fairly inferable (to answer certain
of the objections made by defendant) that the proceeds
of the discount were actually paid by the bank and to
whom paid, and that payment had been demanded and
not made. It is more than an inference that the loss to
the bank was due to the discounts. The charge that the
bank officer received for discounting a note for $100,000,
which was wholly unsecured, and which sum was lost to
the bank, is quite a direct way of saying that the loss was
caused by the discounting. And the statement would
receive very little strength or the act of the officer any
additional degree of culpability by an allegation that the
makers of the note were insolvent, the element which the
Circuit Court found in count 16, and which induced it
to sustain that count.
It is contended by the defendant that the act of March 2,
1907, is not applicable to the case, because the right it offers is "wholly unilateral." "It opens the door of this
court," it is said, "to the United States as one party to
the cause only, and denies the same privilege to the defendant." The ultimate contention is that defendant is
thereby denied the equal protection of the laws. This
inequality is asserted because the United States is given
an appeal to this court, and before trial, and a defendant
is only given right of review in the Circuit Court of Appeals, and only at the end of the trial. The defendant is
VOL. CCXViI---35

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

put to expense and peril, it is urged, though the indictment against him may be wholly bad, "and is at every
stage of the case forbidden the right of review upon any
question in the Supreme Court, except the construction
or application of the Constitution or the constitutionality
of any Federal statute." And this, it is insisted, is the
denial of due process of the law as well as the denial of
the equal protection of the laws. We shall not follow
the somewhat round about argument to establish the
identity of those two rights. If we should yield to the
argument it would necessarily follow that if defendant has
not been denied due process he' has not been denied the
equal protection of the law, and this court has decided that
the right of appeal is not essential to due process of law.
Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S. 505, 508. The provisions
have definite application, and even if the explicit clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment, forbidding a State to deny
to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection
of its laws, can be said to apply to the United States, it
can have no broader meaning when so applied than when
applied to the States. Assuming, therefore, and assuming only, not deciding (see District of Columbia v. Brooke,
214 U. S. 138, 149) that Congress may not discriminate
in its legislation, it certainly has the power of classification, and the act of March 2 is well within such power.
Reversed and remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

