OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

IN RE HENRY A. CLELAND, PETITIONER.
MANDAMUS.
No. 12, Original.

Argued April 4, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.

Where the circuit judge certifies that he is satisfied that the suit involves a controversy within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
mandamus will not issue to compel him to dismiss the case even if
this court differs with him in his conclusions of law.
Jurisdiction does not depend on motive. Although shares of stock
may have been transferred to a non-resident to enable him to bring
suit in the Federal court, if it appears from the record that he is the
absolute owner of properly issued shares, exceeding $2,000 in value,
jurisdiction exists.
Jurisdiction of a suit to wind up a corporation having once properly
attached, a receiver appointed, and creditors, as between whom and
the corporation diverse citizenship exists and the requisite amount is
involved, joined as parties, the jurisdiction cannot be subsequently
defeated by denials in ex parte affidavits of the jurisdictional facts.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. C. D. Joslyn, with whom Mr. Paul B. Moody was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. De Forest Paine for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a petition for a writ of mandamus commanding
the Honorable Henry H. Swan, sitting in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan,
to dismiss a cause on the ground that the suit does not
really and substantially involve a controversy within the
jurisdiction of that court. Act of March 3, 1875, c. 137,
ยง 5. 18 Stat. 470, 472. The suit in question was begun

IN RE CLELAND, PETITIONER.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

on March 30, 1901, by a shareholder in an insolvent Michigan corporation, a mutual building and loan association,
to have a receiver appointed and the association 'wound
up. There were provisions in the Michigan statutes fcr
such cases, but after conference with the Secretary of
Gen State, now the Governor of Michigan, the Attorney
eral of the State 'and officers of the corporation, it was'
decided that the most saving and beneficial course would
be to have a receiver appointed by the United States
Court, the assets of the company being partly scattered
in distant States. As the requirement of proceedings
under the state law was understood to be mandatory upon
the Secretary of State, the beginning of this suit was
hastened. To that end Aldrich, who had been counsel
for the corporation and who wanted to be appointed receiver, transferred and procured to be issued certificates
of stock to a friend of his, Bishop, the original plaintiff,
and Bishop thereupon signed and swore to the bill alleging the par value of his stock to be over $2,000. No doubt
he intended thereby to help Aldrich, but he also understood that he was acting for the benefit of all concerned,
and undoubtedly one reason for applying to him was to
save time in getting a non-resident shareholder. It was
for the benefit of all in fact. The ansWer to the present
petition states that all the shareholders have come in.
Moreover, although it was disputed at the bar, we see no
ground for denying that on the face of the bill the jurisdiction of the court was established. The laws of Michigan did not exclude it, and the corporation was not so
far in the hands of the state officers as to prevent action
by the court. See further, Brown v. Lake Superior Iron
Co., 134 U. S.530.
It is unnecessary to set forth the proceedings under the
bill at length. They have gone on from March 30, 1901.
Real estate has been sold by the receiver, assets collected
and all the debts of the corporation outside the claims of

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

shareholders have been paid, except one disputed claim
for $3,000. The main matter outstanding is a suit against
directors and certain miithdrawing shareholders for money
alleged to have been paid improperly and upon other
claims, which is on the docket for hearing. See Aldrich
v. Gray, 147 lPed. Rep. 453. S.C., 77 C. C. A. 597. It is
enough to say that after considerable litigation and much
expense and trouble the proceedings are drawing to a
close.
The petitioner never has been admitted formally as a
party to the suit, but he proved his claim as holder of
shares of the par value of $2,000 on May 29, 1902, and
while since that time he has been active in trying to have
the receiver removed, and in having him called to account,
his Various petitions have not been dismissed by the Circuit Court on the ground that he had no standing before
it. It may be assumed for purposes of decision that he
has a standing here.
After continuing this activity for years the petitioner
now, without adequately explaining his delay and change
of attitude, seeks to reduce all the proceedings to naught.
Deputron v. Young, 134 U. S. 241. His pecuniary interest
in doing so is infinitesimal, even if not actually contravened. It cannot be believed the motive for the petition
is such as to appeal to the discretion of the court. But
apart from questions of discretion, so far froim its appearing to the satisfaction of the Circuit Court, as the statute
requires, that the suit did not involve a controversy
within ,its jurisdiction, the judge certifies that he is satisfied that it does involve such, a controversy. Put-in-Bay
Water Works,. Light & Railway Co. v. Ryav, 181 U. S. 409,
431. 'Onthe face of the record he was right, and the summary remedy of mandamus would not be proper, even if
our conclusion from the evidence were different from his,
which is not the case. In re Witn,, 213 U. S. 458, 468.
It is saicPthat on the unlisputed facts Bishop was not

IN RE CLELAND, PETITIONER.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a bona fide shareholder, and that the proceeding was collusive. But the first proposition is not true and the
second is not law. Bishop became the absolute owner of
the shares in his name. The answer to the petition so
finds, and there is no question about it. See South Dakota
v. North Carolina, 192 U. S. 286, 310. Some of these
shares had been issued to Aldrich in payment for service,
others were issued by the corporation upon payment of
ten dollars, the proper sum at the start. It is said that
the corporation being insolvent the issue of the certificate
was a fraud on the other shareholders. No one complains
here except the petitioner. It seems to have been to the
advantage of all. Certainly it was not necessarily a fraud
upon them.. As to collusion, there is nothing unlawful
in transferring shares to a man out and out for the convenience of immediately beginning a suit that other shareholders have a right to begin, that all parties ininterest
want to have begun, and that the authorities of-the opposing jurisdittion approve.
Perhaps the most plausible ground would have been
that Bishop's interest was not as great as his allegation
implied, even granting his right as 6 shareholder. But
there is no reason to doubt that he thought that it was.
See Barry v. Edmunds, 116 U. S. 550. And with regard
to this and the objections previously mentioned, it is
enough to quote the l8guage of the court in Put-in-Bay
Water Works, Light & Railway Co. v. Ryan, 181 U. S.409,
432, 433: "Jurisdiction having attached under the allegations of the original bill, and the court having proceeded,
in a proper exercise of its discretionary power, to appoint
a receiver, . . . and the court having also, in the
exercise of its power as a court of equity, allowed the
intervention of other creditors, as between some of whom
*and the defendant company there was jurisdiction in the
court, both as respects diversity of citizenship and amount
of claims, we think its jurisdiction did not fail by reason

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
218 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of anything that appeared. in ex parte affidavits
denying the: truth of the allegations

in respect

to the amount in.dispute."
Rule discharged.
Writ of Mandamus denied.

DOZIER v. STATE OF ALABAMA.
ERROR-TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.

No. 105.

Submitted January 25, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.

The protection of th6 commerce clause of. the Federal Constitution
extends beyond the str.ict lines of.contract, and inseparable incidents
of a transaction of interstate commerce'based on contract are also
iiterstate commerce.
Where, under the contract to purchase a picture, the purchaser has
the option to take at a specified price -the frame in which the picture
shall be delivered, and both picture and frame are manufa6tured in
and (elivered from another State and remain the property of the.
.vendor*until paid for, the sale of the frame is a part of the original
transaction and protected by the commerce clause 6f the Constitution.
The imposition of a license tax for soliciting orders for enlargements of
phot,.graphs and frames on persons not having a permanent place
of business iu the State and keeping such articles as stock in trade
is a regulation of commerce between the States and void under the
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, both as to the orders
for the picture itself and as to an optional right to take, at a price
specified in the contract, the frame in which the picture is delivered,
and so held-as to the license tax imposed under ยง 17 of the statute
of March 7, 1907, of Alabama.
154 Alabama, 83, reversed.
facts are stated in tflc opinion.
TH ,i
Mr. A. D. Gash for plaintiff in error:
('1,ogress has sole power to regulate commerce between

the 8rates.

Art. I, ยง 8, ('onst. IT. S. Section 17 df the

