NATIONAL BANK OF COMMERCE v. DOWNIE. 345
218 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

NATIONAL BANK OF COMMERCE v. DOWNIE,
TRUSTEE.
SEATTLE NATIONAL BANK v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 31,"32. Argued November 3, 1910.--Decided November 28, 1910.

The prohibition of § 3477, Rev. Stat.; against assignment of claims
against the United States which have not been allowed and warrant
issued therefor'ia of universal application. It covers all unallowed
claims and all voluntary assignments thereof, including assignments
made in good faith, as security for advances in course of business, of undisputed claims on contracts being performed by the
assignor; and held, that assignments of such claims so made by a j
bankrupt are null and void, not only as against the United States
but also as against other creditors, and the claims pass by operation of law to the trustee in baikruptcy.
Section 3477, Rev. Stat., does not embrace the transfer of unallowed
claims against the United States when the transfer is by operation
of law and not voluntaky.
To hold that an act making all assignments of claims against the
Government null and void does not embrace claims and assignments of the nature of"those involved in this action would effect a
repeal of the statute by judicial legislation in disregard of its plain
intent.

THE facts, which involve the validity of transfers of
unallowed claims against the United States, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. George E. De Steiguer, with whom Mr. Frederick
Bausman and Mr. Daniel Kelleher were on the brief, for

appellants:
The trustee in bankruptcy is not entitled to claim and
hold the proceeds of the claims pledged to appellants in'

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument-for Appellants.

218 U. S.

disregard of the lien which they claim thereon. Sections 67d, 70a of Bankruptcy Act,
Section 67d applies to purely -equitable liens, as well as
to liens created by statute and common-law liens. Chattanooga Bank v. Rome Iron Co., 102 Fed. Rep. 755; McDonald v. Daskain, 116 Fed. Rep. 276; Re Elm Brewing
Co., 132 Fed. Rep. 299.
An engagement to devote a certain fund to the
satisfaction of a claim constitutes an equitable lien.
Walker v. Brown, 165 U. S. 654; 3 Pomeroy, Eq. Jur.,
§ 1235.
Section 3477, Rev. Stat., does not prevent appellants
from asserting their liens upon the bankrupt's claims
against the United States; nor did these claims pass absolutely to the trustee in bankruptcy for the benefit" of
general creditors in disregard of such lien.
The purpose of that section is limited to the protection of the Government; the statute concerns disputed
claims only, and if applicable at all to assignments of undisputed commercial debts due from the United States,
given in the ordinary course of business; as collateral
security for mercantile loans, it is not intended to affect,
and does not affect, rights to the proceeds of such claims
as between the assignee and the assignor or his representatives.
As construed below, a contractor to whom the Federal Government may be indebted a million dollars on
undisputed bills foo materials furnished is unable to borrow a thousand dollars on the pledge of his expectations.
By such a construction* competition for government
contracts is limited to those few contracting firms who can
complete their work out of their own capital, and who do
not nec.d to have recourse to the credit and banking
privileges upon which ninety-five per cent of the business
of, the country is conducted.

NATIONAL BANK OF COMMERCE v. DOWNIE. 347
218 U. S.

Argument for Appeliants.

This court has repeatedly and wisely held that notwithstanding the broad and comprehensive language of
the act, it should be given application only to such cases
as fall within its purpose. Bailey v. United States, 109
U. S. 432; Goodman v. Niblack, 102 U. S. 556.
Public policy, for the purpose of this statute, does. not
forbid the giving of liens on payments due from the
Government, as between government contractors and
their bankers.
As to the history of § 3477, see 9 Stat. 4; Sen. Rep.
No. 1, 33d Cong., Sp. Sess. 1853, Vol. 1; C. 81, act of
February, 1853, 10 Stat. 170; Debates in Congress, pp. 64,
67, and 216 App. Cong., Globe, Vol. 2, 2d Sess., 32d
Cong. 1852-53; Circular for the guidance of the officials of the Governifient in which First Comptroller announced that the act of 1853 does not include undisputed claims; Freedmen's Savings & Trust Co. v. Shepherd,
127 U. S.494; 17 Op. Atty. Gen. 545; 21 Op. Atty. Gen. 75;
12 Op. Atty. Gen. 216. This statute was aimed at evils
of the nature of champerty and maintenance, as supported
by many expressions of this court; that is the only construction with which all previous decisions of this court
can be reconciled. Marshall v. Railroad Co., 16 How.
336; Freedmen's Savings & Trust Co. v. Shepherd, 127
U. S.494; Ball v. Halsell, 161 U. S.72; Goodman v. Niblack, 102 U. S. 556, 560; Price v. Forrest, 173 U. S.410;
Dowell v. Caldwell, 4 Sawy. 217; Fed. Cas. No. 4039.
If the statute be held to apply to undisputed claims,
it renders such assignments not void for all purposes but
only void or voidable so far as the United States is concerned. It does not apply at all to mere pledges or assignments as security for mercantile loans.
While the act forbids the assignment of "any interest"
in such claims, the interest referred to is a share or percentage in an expectancy-a part interest in a disputed
demand. It is obvious that the equitable pledge of un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Counsel for Appellees.

218 U. S.

disputed demands as security for mercantile loans is not
referred to by the words "assignments of any interest
therein." See Spofford v. Kirk, 97 U. S. 484; United
States v. Gillis, 95 U. S.407; Erwin v. United States, 97
U. S. 392; Goodman v. Niblack, 102 U. S. 556; Ball v.
Halsel, 161 U. S.72; Freedmen's Savings & Trust Co. v.
Shepherd, 127 U. S. 494; Hobbs v. McLean, 117 U. S.
567; St. Paul & Duluth R. R. Co. v. United States,
11 U. S. 733; Bailey v. United States, 109 U. S.
432; Price v. Forrest, 173 U. S.410; Nutt v. Knut, 200
U. S.12.
See also state court decisions of Massachusetts, Mississippi, New York and Virginia, holding the statute inapplicable to such a case as that now before the court.
Yorke v. Conde, 147 N. Y. 486; In re Home, 153 N. Y. 528;
Jernegan v. Osborne, 155 Massachusetts, 207; Thayer v.
Pressey, 175 Massachusetts, 233; Fewell v. Surety Co.
(Miss.), 28 So. Rep. 755; Howes v. Trigg (Va., 1909), 65
S. E. Rep. 538.
The interests of the Government are amply protected
by its own unquestioned right, even at common law, to
disregard the assignment. United States v. Robeson, 9
Pet. 319; Bonner v. United States, 9 Wall. 156.
The appellants are neither plaintiffs nor defendants in
any suit at law or in equity. They are claimants and
petitioners seeking the allowance of their equitable rights
in a fund in a bankruptcy court.
A bankruptcy court in administering an estate should
regard and protect equitable liens and rights, even such
as might not be enforceable by suit in law or equity. In
re Chase, 124 Fed. Rep. 753, 755; Hurley v. Atchison, T.
& S. F. Ry. Co., 213 U. S.126.
Mr. J. E. -Horadi, with whom Mr. H. D. Cooley, Mr.
IV.A. Peters, Mr. J. H. Powell and Mr. Harold Preston
were on the brief, for appellees.

NATIONAL BANK OF COMMERCE v. DOWNIE. 349
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

There is no dispute as to the facts out of which the
present controversy has arisen. Substantially the facts
are these: On the sixteenth day of April, 1907, the appellee
Downie was appointed receiver of the property of Gainwell &Wheeler, partners, who had previously, on the same
day, been adjudged bankrupts. Subsequently he was
elected and qualified as permanent trustee, and by order
of the court, June 20th, 1907, was authorized to collect
all moneys due the bankrupts from the United States or
any of its departments.
Gamwell & Wheeler, as a firm, held sixteen unallowed
claims against the United States, aggregating $33,517.48,
the first one being dated December 10th, 1906, and the
last February 15th, 1907. The National Bank of Commerce of Seattle was a creditor of that firm in the sum
of $37,149.85. These claims were all assigned by Gamwell
& Wheeler to the above bank. The Seattle National Bank
was likewise a creditor of the firm and to the extent of
$22,582.19, with interest, and that firm held certain unallowed claims against the United States, sixty-one in
number, and amounting to $38,509.32. The first of the
latter claims was dated. September 25th, 1906, and the
last April 4th, 1907. They were all assigned by Gamwell
& Wheeler to the last-named bank.
The parties, by stipulation of July 10th, 1907, agreed:
"That each and all of said claims against the United
States Government, so assigned, [to the banks narhed]
were claims for money due from the Government of the
United States to the said bankrupt upon account of contracts entered into between said bankrupts and the United
States for the furnishing of materials by said bankrupts
to various departments of said Government; that said
assignments were each and all, voluntarily made in consideration of a loan made by said bank to said bankrupts

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

at the time of said assignments and as collateral security
for the repayment of said loans, and without notice to
the other creditors of said bankrupts. That all of such
assignments were made after the entering into of' said
contracts and after partial performance thereof by said
bankrupts before the allowance of any such claims or the
ascertainment of the amount due thereon, or the issuing
of any warrant for the payment thereof, and that none of
said assignments were executed in the presence of any
witnesses at all, and that none of them recite any warrant
for the payment of the claim assigned, and that none of
them were acknowledged by any officer having authority
to take acknowledgment of deeds, or any other acknowledging officer at all, and that none of then were certified
as being acknowledged by any officer. The said loans
to wit of said banks exceeded in amount the value of said
collaterals so assigned to secure the same, and there is
now due to each of said banks on account of said loans
an amount much in excess of, the value of the said
collaterals so assigned to each of said banks respectively."
The claims of the two banks ($37,149.85 and $22,582.19
with interest) were allowed by the Referee in Bankruptcy,
and it was adjudged by the court that the banks were
entitled, respectively, to receive, on account of the claims
assigned to them, whatever amount might be collected
on them from the Government, and the Trustee was ordered to pay over to the banks holding the assignments
the collections as they were made thereon.
The District Court allowed the respective claims of
the banks as general debts, but disallowed them as preferred. This order was affirmed in the Circuit Court of
Appeals, that court rejecting the claim of each bank for
a lien upon the fund assigned. The case is here under a
certificate by Justice Brewer, to the effect that the determination of the question involved in each case was

NATIONAL BANK OF COMMERCE v. DOWNIE. 351
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

essential to an uniform construction of the Bankruptcy
Act throughout the United States.
The questions raised by the parties make it necessary
to determine the scope and effect of § 3477 of the Revised
Statutes in its application to these cases. That section
was brought forward from previous acts of Congress and
is as'follows: "All transfers and assignments made of any
claim upon the United States, or of any part or share
thereof, or interest therein, whether absolute or conditional, and whatever may be the consideration therefor,
and all powers of attorney, orders, or other authorities
for receiving payment of any such claim, or of any part
or share thereof, shall be absolutely null and void, unless
they are freely made and executed in the presence of at
least two attesting witnesses, after the allowance of such
a claim, the ascertainment of the armount due, and the
issuing of a warrant for the payment thereof. Such transfers, assignments, and' powers of attorney, must recite
the warrant for payment, and must be acknowledged by
the person making them, before an officer having authority to take acknowledgments of deeds, and shall be
certified by the officer; and it must appear by the certificate that the officer, at the time of the acknowledgment,
read and fully explained the transfer, assignment, or warrant of attorney to the person acknowledging the same."
The words of that section are so clear and explicit that
there cannot be, we think, any reasonable ground to doubt
the purpose of this legislation. Its essential features are
not new, as can be seen by an examination of the act of
Congress of July 29th, 1846, "in relation to the payment
of Claims" on the United States, and the act of February 26th, 1853, "to prevent, frauds upon the Treasury of
the United States." 9 Stat. 41, c. 66; 10 Stat. 170, c. 81.
Turning to § 3477, we find Congress had in mind not only
all transfers and assignments of any claim on the United
States or part of a claim or any interest therein, whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U.S.

the transfer or assignment be absolute or unconditional
and whatever was the considerationof the transfer or assignment, but all powers of attorney, orders or other authorities for receiving payment of any such claim, or of any
part or share thereof. All such transfers, assignments,
powers of attorney, order or authorities are declared to
be "absolutely null and void," except there be a compliance with the conditions fully set out in the statute.
None of those conditions was complied with in these
cases.
In United States v. Gillis, 95 U. S. 407, 416" it appears
that suit was brought in the Court of Claims, by the assignee of an unallowed claim on the United States, and
the question arose whether the assignee could maintain
a suit in his name for the proceeds of the claim. The
Court of Claims sustained the assignee's right to sue, but
this court, upon careful examination of the act of 1853,
reenacted in § 3477 of the Revised Statutes, reversed
the judgment and directed the petition of the assignee
to be dismissed. It was contended in that case that the
act of 1853 had referencd only to claims asserted before
the Treasury Department. But that view was rejected.
After observing that the comprehensive provisions of the
statute excluded any exceptions to the rule presented,
the court said: "We think, therefore, the act of 1853 is
of universal application, and covers all claims against
the United States in every tribunal in which they may be
asserted. And such, we think, was the understanding
of Congress when the Revised Statutes were enacted.
In the revision, the act of 1853 was included and reenacted.
Among the earlier cases on the general subject is Spofford v. Kirk, 97 U. S. 484, 488-489, 490, frequently referred to in later decisions and always followed.
That was a case of a suit by Spofford, in the Supr'eme
Court of this District. He became the holder, by assign-

NATIONAL BANN OF COMMERCE v. DOWNIE. 353
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court,

ment, of certain acceptances which, upon their face, provided for payment to be made out of any moneys received
from the United States on the claim of one Kirk against
the Government. The assignee or holder of the acceptances
paid value for thenm.and acted in entire good faith. The
question was whether an assignment of a claim against
the United States, made before the claim had been allowed
and before a warrant had been issued for its payment,
had any validity, either in law or in equity. The court of
original jurisdiction dismissed Spofford's bill, and cthe
judgment was affirmed here. Mr. Justice Strong, speaking for this court, referred to § 3477 of the Revised Statutes, and, among other things, said: "It would seem to
be impossible to use language more comprehensive than
this. It embraces alike legal and equitable assignments.
It includes powers of attorney, orders, or other authorities
for receiving payment of any such claim, or any part or
share thereof. It strikes at every derivative interest, in
whatever form acquired, and incapacitates every claimant
upon the Government from creating an interest in the claim
in any other than himself." After referring to the fact
that the court had not been called upon to decide in the
Gillis case, whether the assignment there involved was
invalid as between, the assignor and the assignee, the
opinion proceeds: "But if after the claim in this case was
allowed, and a warrant for its payment was issued in the
claimant's name, as it must have been, he had gone to
the treasury for his money, it is clear that no assignment
he might have made, or order he might have given, before the
allowance would have stood in the way of his receiving the
whole sum allowed. The United States must have treated
as a nullity any rights to the claim asserted by others.
It is hard to see how a transfer of a debt can be of no force
as between the transferee and the debtor, and yet effective
as between.the creditor and his assignee to transmit an
ownership of the debt, or create a lien upon it. Yet if
• VOL.

ccxvni-23

OCTOIBEIR TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

that might be-and we do not propose now to affirm or
deny it-the question remains, whether the act of Congress
was not intended to render all claims against the government, inalienable alike in law and in equity, for ei'ery purpose, and between all parties. The intention of Congress
must be discovered in the act itself. . . . We cannot
say, when the statute declares all transfers and assignments of the whole of a claim, or any part or interest
therein, and all orders, powers of attorney, or other authority for receiving payment of the claim, or any part
thereof; shall be absolutely null and void, that they are
only partially null and void, that they are valid and effective as between the parties thereto, and only invalid when
set up against the government. It follows that, in our
opinion, the accepted orders under which the appellant
claims gave him no interest in the claim of the drawer
against the United States, and no lien upon the fund
arisiihg out of the claim. His bill was, therefore, rightly
dismissed."
In St. Paul & Duluth R. R. Co. v. United States, 112
U. S. 733, 736, the court held that a voluntary transfer
by mortgage, for the security of a debt, and finally completed and made absolute by a judicial sale, was within
the prohibition of § 3477, Mr. Justice Matthews, speaking
for the court, saying that "if the statute does not apply
to such cases, it would be difficult to draw a line of exclusion which leaves any place for the operation of the prohibition."
The latest adjudication, by this court, construing § 3477
of the Revised Statutes, is that of Nutt v. Knut, 200 U. S.
12, 13, 14, 20. That case involved, among other things,
the validity of the clause in a written contract relating
to compensation to be made to an attorney employed
to prosecutea claim against the United States. The contract provided that the payment of such compensation
"is hereby made a lien upon said claim and upon any

NATIONAL BANK OF COMMERCE v. DOWNIE. 355
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

draft, money or evidence of indebtedness which may be.
issued thereon. This agreement not to be affected by
any services performed by the claimanf or by any other
agents or attorneys employed by him." After referring
to the words of § 3477 and citing previous cases in which
the scope and meaning of that section were considered
(which cases are given in the margin 1), this court said:
"If regard be had to the words as well as to the meaning
of the statute, as declared in former cases, it would seem
clear that the contract in question was, in some important
particulars, null and void upon its face. We have in mind
that clause making the payment of the attorney's compensation a lien upon the claim asserted against the Goverrment and upon any draft, money or evidence of indebtedness issued thereon. In giving that lien from the
outset, before the allowance of the claim and before any
service had been rendered by the attorney, the contract,
in effect, gave him an interest or share in the claim itself
and in any evidence of indebtedness issued by the Government on account of it. In effect or by its operation
it transferred or assigned to the attorney in advance of
the allowance of the claim such an interest as would secure
the payment of the fee stipulated to be paid. All this
was contrary to the statute; for its obvious purpose, in
part, was to forbid any one who was a stranger to the
original transaction to come. between the claimant and
the Government, prior to the allowance of a claim, and
who, in asserting his own interest or share in the claim,
pending its examination, might embarrass the conduct
of the business on the part of the officers of the GovernSpofford v. Kirk, 97 U. S. 484; United States v. Gillis, 95 U. S. 407;
Erwin v. United States, 97 U. S. 392; Goodman v. Niblack, 102 U. S.
556; Ball v. Halsell, 161 U. S. 72; Freedmen'sSaving Co. v. Shepherd,
127 U. S. 494; Hobbs v. McLean, 117 U. S. 567; St. Paul & Duluth

R. R. v. United States, 112 U. S. 733; Bailq,v. United States, 109 U. S.
432; Price v. Forrest, 173 U. S. 410.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

inent. We are of opinion that the state court erred in
holding the contract, on its face, to be consistent with
the statute."
In this connection, it must be said that this court has
held that the statute in question does not embrace the
transfer of a claim against the United States, where the
transfer ha been by operation of law, not merely as the
result of a voluntary assignment by the claimant. In
Erwin v. United States, 97 U. S. 392, 397, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Field, after referring to the act of 1853
embodied now in § 3477 of the Revised Statutes, to prevent frauds upon the Treasury, said that it "applies only
to cases of yoluntary assignment of demands against the
Government. It does not embrace cases where there has
been a transfer of title by operation of law. The passing
of claims to heirs, devisees, or assignees in bankruptcy
are not within the evil at which the statute aimed; nor
does the construction given by this court deny to such
parties a standing in the Court of Claims." This construction of the statute was recognized as settled law in
Goodman v. Niblack, 102 U. S.556, 560; St. PaulRailroad
v. United States, 112 U..S. 733, 736; Butler v. Goreley, 146
U. S.303, 311; Hager v. Swayne, 149 U. S.242, 247, and
Ball v. Halsell, 161 U. S.72, 79.
The present cases are not assignments which by operation of law created an interest in the assignor's claims
against the United States. They are clean-cut cases of
a voluntary transfer of claims against the United States,
before their allowance, in direct opposition to the statute.
If any regard whatever is to be had to the intention of
Congress, as manifested by its words-too clear, we think,
to need construction-we must hold such a transfer to be
absolutely null and void, and as not in itself, passing to
the appellants any interest, present or remote, legal or
equitable, in the claims transferred. The result is that
when Gamwell & Wheeler were adjudged bankrupts they

LADEW v. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
218 U. S.

Syllabus.

were still in law the owners of these claims on the United
States, and all interest therein passed under the bankrupt
act to their general creditors, to be disposed of as directed
by the bankrupt act, just as if there had been no attempt
to transfer them to the banks. Any other holding will
effect a repeal of the statute by mere judicial construction
in disregard of the plain, unequivocal intent of Congress
as indicated by the statute.
The judgment as to each bank is
Affirmed.

LADEW v. TENNESSEE COPPER COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 495. Argued October 19, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

Plaintiffs, citizens of States other than that of the defendant, brought
suit.against the defendants in the Circuit Court of the United States
for a district of which neither plaintiffs nor this defendant were inhabitants to compel defendants to abate a nuisance carried on in
that district and which was causing damage to plaintiffs' property
in another State and in which neither they nor the defendant re,sided; the Circuit Court dismissed as to this defendant for want of
jurisdiction, neither it nor the plaintiffs being inhabitants of that
district. In affirming judgment held that:
Diversity of citizenship-nothing nore appearing-will not give the
Circuit Court jurisdiction to render judgment in personam Where
*neither plaintiff nor defendant is an inhabitant of the district in
which the suit is brought and the 'defendant appears specially and
objects to the jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction given to the Circuit Court by § 8 of the-act of March 3,
1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, of suits to enforce legal or equitable
claims to real or personal property within the. district, even if the
parties are not inhabitants of the district, does not extend to suits

