OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

218 U. S.

general creditors of the bank to the extent only that their
property had been received and appropriated by the
bank.
Affirmed.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. MELTON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 180.. Argued April 28, 29, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.
When a Federal question does exist the writ of error will not be dismissed as frivolous or as foreclosed by former decisions when analysis
of those decisions is necessary, where there has been division of
opinion in the court below, as in this case, and conflict of opinion in
prior decisions as to the point involved.
This court is not concerned with the construction given by a state
court to the statute of another State unless such construction offends
a properly asserted Federal right.
Whether a state court failed to give the full faith and credit required by the Federal Constitution to u statute of another State
because it did not construe it as construed by the courts of the
latter State is not open in this court unless the question is properly
asserted in the state court.
The reiterated assertion in the lower court of Federal right based
solely on one provision of the Federal Constitution is basis for the
inference that no other provision was relied upon.
A question under the Federal Constitution does not necessarily arise
in every case in which the courts of one State are called upon to
construe the statute of another State; the general rule in the ibsence
of statutory provision, is that a settled construction of a statute
relied upon to control the court of another State must be pleaded
and proved, ttd, if not plcttded and proved, the court construing the
statute is not deprived of its independent judgment in regard thereto.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. MELTON. 37
218 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

In determining on writ of error a Federal question, this court cannot
predicate error as to matters which should be, and are not, pleaded
or proved.
The equal protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment did not
deprive the States of the power to classify, but only of the abuse of
such power; nor is the clause offended against becafise some inequality may be occasioned by a classification in legislation properly
enacted under the police power.
A classification in a state police statute proper as to a general class is
not unconstitutional under the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment because it ignores inequalities as to some
persons embraced within the general class.
The Employers' Liability Statute of Indiana of 1893 is not unconstitutional under the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment because it subjects railroad employds to a special rule
as to the doctrine of fellow servant, Tullis v. Lake Erie & Western
*R.R. Co., 175 U. S. 348; Pittsburg Ry. Co. v. Martir,212 U.S. 560;
nor is it unconstitutional under that clause as to such employ~s of
railroads, such as bridge carpenters, as are not subject to the hazards
peculiarly resulting from the operation of a railroad.
The fact that since the decision of a state court under review- construing a police statute of another State as including certain elements 'of a class, the highest court of the enacting State has construed the statute as excluding such elements does not necessarily
enlarge the duty of this court in determining the validity of the
decision under review.
127 Kentucky, 276, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of the
Employers' Liability Act of Indiana as applied to employ~s of railroads engaged in' work other than the direct
operation of the railroad, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Benjamin D. Warfield, with whom Mr. Henry Lane
Stone was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
While a State may abolish the common-law doctrine of
fellow-servants and assumed risks as to every employ6 in
the State it cannot do so as to a class unless there is a
reasonable basis for the classification. Akeson v. Railroad
Co., 106 Iowa, 54.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

218 U. B.

Defendant in error, although employed by the railroad
company, was not engaged in an extra-hazardous employment--one peculiar to railroads-such as to justify the
application of the statute as to him.
Tullis v.. L. E & W. Ry. Co., 175 U. S. 348, upheld the
constitutionality of the statute involved in this case as
applied to the facts in that case, but the question involved in this case was not then raised. See S. C., 105
Fed. Rep. 554, and so also in M. P. Ry. Co. v. Mackey, 127
U. S. 205, and P., C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Montgomery,
152 Indiana, 1.
Unless the Indiana statute is construed as embracing
only those employ~s of railroad companies who are engaged in the hazardous branches of railroad -service and
thus making a reasonable classification it contravenes the
Fourteenth Amendment, as aimed against one class of
persons and leaving other persons subject to the more
favorable rules of the common law. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry.
Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150.
The defendant in error was not engaged in an extrahazardous employment. He was not injured in the
operation of a railroad. The carpenter's work he was
doing for plaintiff in error was no more hazardous because his employer was a railroad company than it would
have been if his employer had been an individual, or a
corporation other than a railroad company. Cotting v.
Stockyards Co., 183 U. S. 79; quoting approvingly Cooley's
Const. Lim., 5th ed., 484; Connolly v. Sewer Pipe Co.. 184
U. S. 540; State v. Loomis, i15 Missouri, 807; Adair v.
United States, 208 U. S. 161.
The power to regulate interstate. commerce, great and
paramount as that power is, cannot be exerted in violation of any fundamental right secured by other provisions
of the Constitution. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196;
Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, 353.
Unless the statute is limited by construction so as to

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. MELTON. 39
21, U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Erior.

exclude defendant in error from its operation it is unconstitutional and void.
The term "employs " in the Iowa statute is limited to
those engaged in- operating the railroad. Dippe v. Chi.,
R. I. & P. R. R. Co., 36 Iowa, 52, and see Ind. Tr. & Ter.
Co. v. Kinney, 171 Indiana, 612; Akeson v. C., B. & Q.
Ry. Co., 106 Iowa, 54.
The employment at the time of the injury must have
exposed the complainant to the hazards of railroading,
without reference to what he may be required to do at
other times. Butler v. Railroad Co., 87 Iowa, 206; Keatley
v. Railroad Co., 94 Iowa, 685; Canon v. Railway Co., 101
Iowa, 613. See also construction of similar Minnesota and
Kansas laws. Lavallee v. Railway Co., 40 Minnesota, 249;
Railroad Co. v. Pontius, 52 Kansas, 264; Johnson v. Railway Co., 43 Minnesota, 222.
One working on a railroad does not necessarily, come
under such a statute. Potter v. Railway Co., 46 Iowa,
399; Smith v. Railroad Co., 59 Iowa, 73; Schroeder v.
Railway Co., 41 Iowa, 344; S. C., 47 Iowa, 375.
The party injured must be exposed to the hazards of
railroading. Pyne v. Railway Co., 54 Iowa, 223; Foley v.
Railway Co., 64 Iowa, 644; Larson v. Railway Co., 91
.Iowa, 81; Railroad Co. v. Artery, 137 U. S. 507; Malone v.
Railroad Co., 65. Iowa, 417; Reddington v. Railr6ad Co.,
.108 Iowa, 96; Dunn v. C., R. i. & P. Ry. Co., 130 Iowa,
580.
In Minnesota the corresponding statute has been construed as applying only to employ6s engaged in operation
of railroads. Lavalke v. Railroad Co., 40 Minnesota, 249,
citing McAunich v. Railroad Co., 20 Iowa, 338; Johnson
v. Railroad Co., 43 Minnesota, 222; Martyn v. Railroad
Co., 92 Minnesota, 302.: On this point see also Givens V.
Southern Railway Co., 49 So. Rep. .180; Ballard v. Miss.
Cotton Oil Co., 81 Mississippi, 507.
The Indiana statute as construed by the highest court

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

219 U. S

of that State was only upheld as to railroads because the

classification was proper and that would not be the case
if it related to men employed in non-hazardous branches.
See So. Ind. Ry. v. Harrell, 161 Indiana, 262; I. & G.
R. R. Co. v. Foreman, 62 Indiana, 85; Bedford Quarries
Co. v. Bough, 168 Indiana, 671, and cases cited.
The opinion in this case below was not unanimous,
127 Kentucky, 276, 292; two judges dissented on the
ground that, as construed by the Kentucky court, the

Indiana statute was unconstitutional.
The Kentucky court refused to give full faith and
credit to the Indiana statute as construed by the courts
of that State.
The full faith and credit clause was designed to give to
the public acts, records and judicial proceedings of one
State the same force in other States as they have in the

State of their origin; no more, no less. The Court of
Appeals of Kentucky was bound to accept the construction of the Employers' Liability Act of Indiana,
which the Supreme Court of that State has placed upon
that statute, and, having failed to do so, this court must
enforce the duty which the State of Kentucky owed in
the premises. Although where the case turns upon the
construction by a state court of a statute of another
State, and not upon the validity of such statute, a decision on that question is not necessarily of a Federal
character; yet the question depends upon the particular
facts of each case and the manner in which they are
presented, how far such questions can be regarded as
coming under the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution, Finney v. Guy, 189 U* S. 334, and C. & 0. Ry.
Co. v. McCabe, 213 U. S. 207.

In such statutory actions the law of the place governs
in enforcing the right in another jurisdiction. See A., T.
& S. F. Ry. Co. v. Sowers, 213 U. S. 55; Am. Exp. Co. v.

Mullins, 212 U. S. 311.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. MELTON. 41
218 U. S..

Argument for Defendant in.Error.

Mr. James W. Clay, with whom Mr. William L. Gordon,
Mr. William J. Cox, Mr. Maurice K. Gordon and Mr.
J. F. Clay were on the brief, for defendant in error:
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky determined the case
on the record. The plaintiff in error did not plead the
construction or application of the Indiana statute by the
courts of Indiana. It did not prove or attempt to prove
such construction and application.
The Court of Appeals was therefore left to. construe the
Indiana statute pleaded as it would local laws, and it is
settled that under such circumstances, no Federal question
arises.
The construqtion and application of the Indiana statute
by the courts of that State was a question of fact to be
proved, and the finding of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky upon the record as it staads in this case, is binding
upon the United States Supreme Court. Eastern B. & L.
Assn. v. Ebaugh, 185 U. S. 114; Chicago &c. R. 'Co. v.
Wiggins Ferry Co., 119 U. S. 615; Glenn v. Garth, 147
U. S. 360; Lloyd v. Matthews, 155 U. S. 223; Johnson v.
N. Y. Life Ins. Co., 187 U. S. 491; Banholzer v. Same, 178
U. S. 402; Allen v. Allegheny Co., 196 U. S. 458; Eastern
B. & L. Assn. v. Williamson, 189 U. S. 122; Finney v.
Guy, 189 U. S."335; Martin v. Pittsburg &c. R. Co., 203
U. S.,284; Adams Express Co. v. Walker, 119 Kentucky,
127; Root v. Meriwether, 8 Bush (Ky.), 400.
The Indiana Employers' Liability Statute as construed by the Kentucky Court of Appeals and applied to
'the facts of this case, is not in conflict with the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pittsburg
&c. R. Co. v. Montgomery, 152 Indiana, 1; Tullis v. Lake
Erie &c. R. Co., 175 U. S. 348; Pittsburg &c. R. Co. v.
Leightheiser, 78 N. E. Rep. 1033; Bedford Quarries Co. v.
Bough, 80 N. E. Rep. 529;,Pittsburg &c. R. Co. v. Ross,
80 N. E. Rep. 845; Same v. Same, 212 U. S. 560.
For the general principles to be applied in testing con-

OCT01 ER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

218 U. S.

stitutionality of such statutes see Barbier v. Connolly, 113
U. S. 27; Railroad Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 205; Magoun
v. Bank, 170 U. S. 283; RailroadCo. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150.
The nature of employment was hazardous4 the work
was necessary to and connected with the operation of the
rqilroad; legislative power and constitutional sanction is
not measured by a comparison of danger. Chicago &c.
R. Co. v. Stahley, 62 Fed. Rep. 363; Chicago &c. R. Co. v.
Pontius, 157 U. S. 209; Callahan v. St L. &c. Ry. Co 170
Missouri, 473; St. Louis &c..R. Co. v. Callahan, 1944U. S.
628.
The Kfntuck' Court of Appeals having found as a fact
that the work at which defendant in error was engaged
was no less perilous than the work of an operative on one
of its trains, and that the work at which he was engaged
was "essential to the operation of a railroad," its findings.
are conclusive and not subject to review by the Supreme
Court of the United States. Dower V. Richards, 151 U. S.
658; Hedrick v. Santa Fe &c., R. "R.Co., 167 U. S. 673;
Keokuk &c. R. Co. v. Illinois, 175 U. S. 626; Gardner v.
Bonestell, 180 U. S. "362.
For state, decisions applying the Employers' Liability
statutes of Georgia, Texas and North Carolina, to em":
ployments similar to that shown in the case at bar, and
holding them constitutional as applied, see Railroad Co.
v. Ivey, 73 Georgia, 504; Railroad Co. v. Miller, 90 Georgia,
571; Railroad Co. v. Hicks, 22 S. E. Rep. 613; Campbell v.
Cook,. 86 Texas, 630; Railroad Co. v. Mohrmann, 93
S. W. Rep. 1090; Sherman v. Railroad Co., 91,S. W. Rep.
561; Railroad Co. v. Carlin, 111 Fed. Rep. 777; S. C.,
189 U. S. 354; Hancock v. Norfolk R. Co., 32 S.E.'Rep.
679; Rutherford v. Southern R. Co., 35 S. E. Rep. 136;
Mott v. Southern R. Co., 42 S. E. Rep. 601; Sigman v.
Southern R. Co., 47 S.E. Rep. 420; Nicholson v. Tran: R.
Co., 51 S. E. Rep. 40.
And for other decisions with reference to other statutes

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. MELTON.
218 U. S.

43

Opinion of the Court.

see Pierce v. Van Dusen, 72 Fed. Rep. 693; Railroad Co.
v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 205; Minn. Iron Co. v. Kline, 199
U. S. 593; Railroad Co. v. Humes, 115 U. S. 512; Railroad
Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26; Cargill Co. v. Minn. &c.,
180 U. S. 452; Railroad Co. v. Herrick, 127 U. S. 210;
Railroad Co. v. Emmons, 149 U. S. 364; Kane v. Erie R.
Co., 133 Fed. Rep. 681.
As to the Federal Employers' Liability Act see El Paso
&c. R. Co. v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S. 87.
The statute as construed does not deprive plaintiff in
error of its property without due process of law.
MR. JusTIcE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

For personal injuries Spencer Melton recovered a judgment against the plaintiff in error in the Circuit Court of
Hopkins County, Kentucky. The Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment (127 Kentucky, 276), whereupon this
writ of error was prosecuted.
Melton) a carpenter, was injured on March 21, 1905,
while in the employ of the railway company. He was one
of a construction crew, composed of a foreman and six
men, who usually did what is described as bridge carpentering. On the date mentioned the crew was engaged,
alongside the track of the railway company at Howell,
Indiana, in constructing the foundation of a coal tipple
at which the engines might coal. A bent or frame of
timber, composed of heavy pieces fastened together, and
intended to be used as part of the foundation of the tipple,
which was lying flat upon the ground, was being raised
for the purpose of placing it in the foundation. The
lifting was accomplished by means of a block and tackle.
A pulley was fastened by an iron chain to an upright
piece of timber, and through the pulley a rope passed,
which was attached at one end to the bent, so that on
bauling oh the rope at the other end the' bent or frame

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

was slowly lifted up. Most of the men were engaged in
hauling on the rope, while the foreman and Melton under
his orders were standing beneath the bent and were engaged in placing props under the bent to prevent its lowering, when the strain upon the rope passing through the
pulley was relaxed. While Melton was in this position
a link of the chain which held the pulley at the top of the
upright post broke, and the bent fell to the ground with
Melton underneath, inflicting upon him serious and permanent injuries. The chain which broke was furnished
by the foreman of the gang -and had been put in position
under his directions.
Melton was a resident of Hopkins County, Kentucky,
and he there commenced this action. The right to recover was based upon the charge that the injury was
occasioned through the furnishing by the corporation of
unsafe tools to do the work of raising the bent. Besides
generally controverting the cause of the injuries, as alleged, the answer of the company set up the defenses of
contributory negligence and assumption of the risk.
Thereafter Melton was allowed to file an amendment to
his petitIon. By the amendment it was substantially
alleged that he was injured without any fault on his part,
and solely owing to a defect in the condition of the works
or tools connected with or in use in the business of the
defendant, and that such defect was the result, of negligence on the part of the foreman, who was the person
entrusted with the duty of keeping such tools or works
in a proper condition, and the accident was also charged
to have been caused by the negligent orders of the foreman, to whose directions Melton was bound to conform.
The sufficiency of the facts alleged to entitle to recovery
was expressly based upon the provisions of the first and
second subsections of ยง 1 of an act of the legislature of
Indiana of March 4, 1893, known as the Employers' Liability Statute, reading as follows:

LOUISVILLE & NASH.VJLLE R; R. v. MELTON.
218 U. S.

45

Opinion of the Court.

"Sc.
1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the
State of Indiana, That every railroad .
.
operating
in this State shall be liable in damages for personal injury
suffered by any employ6 while in its service, the employ6
so injured being in the exercise of due care and diligence,
in the following cases:
"First. When such injury is suffered by reason of any
defect in the condition of ways, works, plants, tools and
machinery connected with or in use in the business of such
corporation, when such defect was the result of negligence
on the part of the corporation, or some person entrusted
by it with the duty of keeping such ways, works, plant,
tools or machinery in proper condition.
"Second. Where such injury resulted from the negligence of any person in the service of such corporation, to
whose' order or direction the injured employ6 at the time
of the injury was bound to conform, and did conform."
The court, on the motion of the railway company, having required Melton to determine whether to rely upon
the common law or the statute, he elected to base his
right to recover on the statute. Thereupon the railway
company answered the amended petition, and therein
stated as follows:
"Defendant says that the said Indiana statute pleaded
cannot and does not apply to the facts of this case, and
plaintiff cannot rely thereon, and that under the law of
Indiana, as to the character of work then in hand, the
plaintiff was a fellow servant with the said foreman of the
construction crew for whose negligence the defendant is
not liable."
Before trial, permission. being granted, the railway company by an additional amendment defended on the ground
that the Indiana statute relied upon, if held applicable to
the facts alleged, was repugnant to the constitution of
Indiana and to thc equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The averments on this subject were

OCTOBER TERM, 1.9019.
Opinion of the Court.

218

I

T

.S.

lengthy, and concluded as follows: "Defendant distinctly
raises the Federal question that the said statute, in so far
as made to apply to the facts in this case, is violative of
said provision of the Constitution of the United States
,.and void." The provision referred to, as shown by the
context, was the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
On the trial counsel for the railway company offered
as evidence of the common law of the State of Indiana oil
the subject of fellow-servants the opinions of the Supreme
Court of Indiana in the following cases: New Pittsburg
Coal & Coke Co. v. Peterson, filed October 31, 1893, 136
Indiana, 398; Southern Indiana R. R. Co. v. Harrell, filed
October 9, 1903, 161 Indiana, 680; Indianapolis & G.
Rapids Transit Co. v. Foreman, filed 'January 29, 1904,
162 Indiana, 85.
At the close of the evidence for plaintiff, and also upon
the conclusion of all the evidence, the railway company
unsuccessfully moved the court to peremptorily instruct
the jury to find in its favor for the following reasons:
"1. There is no evidence of actionable negligence proven.
"2. The Indiana statute upon which this action is based
does not apply to the facts proven.
"3. In so far as the terms of the Indiana statute apply to the facts proven, they are unconstitutional and
void. They are discriminatory against defendant and
deny it the equal protection of the law. They are violative of the constiti'tion of Indiana and of section 1, article 14, of the Constitution of the United States, being
section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment thereto.
"4. The said Indiana statutes were not intended to be
enforced out of the State of Indiana, and are against the
policy of the State of Kentucky and not enforcible in a
Kentucky forum."
The railway company in its request for instructions,
which were refused, and to which refusals it excepted,

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE It.R. v. MELTON.
218 U. S.

47

Opinion of the Court.

substantially asked that the general principles of the conmon law of Indiana as to fellow-servant and assumption
of the risk, as exemplified by the Indiana decisions which
it had offered in evidence, be applied to the case. The
court, on the contrary, in the instructions which it gave
substantially applied the provisions of the Indiana statute, as by it construed. In the motion for a new trial
fifteen reasons were stated, those which made reference
to the statute or to the Constitution of the United States
being the following:
"14. The court erred in applying the Indiana statute
to the facts of this case. The court erred in enforcing the
Indiana statute in a Kentucky. forum.
"15. The court erred in upholding and applying the
Indiana statute pleaded in this case, when same in so far
as applicable to the facts proven in this case is unconstitutional and void. It is discriminatory against defendant, and denies it the equal protection of the law. It
is violative of the constitution of the State of Indiana and
of section 1 of article 14 of the Constitution of the United
States, which guarantees to defendant the equal protection of the law."
The court below held that the Supreme Court of Indiana had construed the statute as applicable both to
persons and corporations operating railroads. It further
held that the statute embraced the case in hand because
Melton came Within the category of persons injured in
the operation of a railroad, as "the construction of a coal
tipple is
. .
essential to the operation of a railroad."
As thus construed the repugnancy of the statute to the
equal protection clause of the Constitution of the United
States was considered. It was decided that for the purpose of abrogating or modifying the common law doctrine
of fellow-servant it was competent for the law-making
power of a State, without offending against the equal
protection clause, to classify railroad employ~s because of

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

the hazard attached to their vocation, and that a statute
doing this need not be confined to employ6s who were engaged in and about the mere movement of trains, but
could also validly include other employs doing work essential to be done to enable the carrying on of railroad
operations. Thus, referring to the alleged distinction between railroad operatives engaged in train movement and
those who were not, the court said:
"We are unable to see the force of this distinction. A
railroad cannot be run without bridges; bridges cannot be
built without carpenters. The work of a bridge carpenter
on a railroad is perhaps no less perilous than the work of
an operative on one of its trains. Coal tipples are no less
essential to the operation of a railroad than bridges, because the engines cannot be operated without coal. The
construction of a coal tipple is therefore essential to the
operating of a railroad. As has been well said, the legislature cannot well provide for all subjects in one act.
Legislation must necessarily be -done in detail, and an
act regulating railroads violates no constitutional provision because it is made to apply only to railroads. Indianapoli8 &c. R. R. Co. v. Kane, 80 N. E. Rep. 841;
Schoolcrafts, Adm., v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 92 Kentucky, 233;
Chicago &c. R. R. Co. v. Stahley, 62 Fed. Rep. 363; Callahan v. R. R. Co., 170 Missouri, 473, 194 U. S. 628; R. R.

Co. v. Ivy, 73 Georgia, 504."
The railway company asked a rehearing for the sole
purpose of a reconsideration of what was referred to as
the very important Federal question involved, viz., "the
unconstitutionality of the Indiana statute, as applied to
the facts of this case." The court permitted the ques.tion whether a.rehearing should be granted to be orally
argued, and,:after such argument, in a brief opinion denied
the request. Two members of the court, however, dissented, on, the ground that the statute as construed was
.repugnant to"th e equal protection claiuie of the Fourteenth.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. MELTON.
218 U. S.

49

Opinion of the Court.

Amendment. This writ of error was then prosecuted, and
the only reference to the Constitution of the United
States made in the assignment of error filed with the application for the writ was that embraced in the contention
that the Indiana statute could not be constitutionally
applied to the facts without causing the statute to be repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment.
We primarily dispose of a motion to dismiss, which is
rested upon the ground that the Federal -question relied
upon has been so conclusively foreclosed by prior decisions of this court as to cause it to be frivolous, and therefore not adequate to confer jurisdiction. The contention
may not prevail, even although it be admitted that a careful analysis of the previous cases will manifest that they
are decisive of this. We say this because, for. the purpose of the motion to dismiss, the issue is not whether the
Federal question relied upon will be found upon an examination of the merits to be unsound, but.whether it is
apparent that such question has been so explicitly foreclosed as to leave no room for contention on the subject,
and hence cause the question to be frivolous. That. this
is not the case. here we think results from the following
considerations, a, because analysis and expounding is necessary in order to make clear the decisive effect of the
prior decisions upon the issue here presented; b, because
the division in opinion of the lower court as to whether the
statute as construed was repugnant to the equal protection clause of -the Fourteenth Amendment suggests that
the controversy on the subject here presented should not
be treated as of such a frivolous character as not to afford
ground for jurisdiction to review the action of the court
below; and, c, because while an examination of the opinions of state courts of last resort will show that there is
unanimity as to the power consistently with the equal
protection of the law clause to classify railroad employs
actually engaged in the hazardous work of moving trains,
voL. ccxvin-4

OCTOBEIR TERIl, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

such examination will also disclose that there is some conflict of view as to whether a statute on that subject as
broad as is the statute under review as construed below
is consistent with the clause, thus additionally serving
to point to the necessity of analyzing and considering the
subject anew instead of treating it as being so obviously
foreclosed as not to permit an examination of the subject.
'Coming to the merits, we-at once premise that we are
not concerned with the construction affixed by the court
below to the Indiana statute, unless it be that thAt construction offends against some Federal right properly asserted ahd open to our consideration. In the argument
at bar on behalf of the railway company two rights of this
character are insisted upon. First, it is said that the
court below, in applying the statute, has caused it to embrace a class of employ~s which the statute did not include, and thereby gave it a wrongful construction, in
violationof the full faith and credit clause of the Constftution of the United States. Second, that in any event
the statute as construed is repugnant to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. We separately dispose of these propositions.
The full faith and credit clause. The contentions as to
this proposition rest upon the assumption that it has been
conclusively, settled by the Supreme Court of Indiana
that the statute only changed the gener.al, rule prevailing
in that State in respect to the doctrine -of fellow-servant
as tq railroad employ6s actually engaged in the hazard of
train service, and-therefore did not include an employ6
engaged in the character of work which Melton was performing when injured, and that to give the statute a contrary meaning was to. violate the full faith and credit
clause. If, however, the premise upon which the proposition rests, and the legal deduction based upon that
premise be for the sake of the argument conceded, the
contention is, nevertheless, without merit, because of the

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE It. R. v. MELTON.
218 IT. S.

51

Opinion of the Court.

failure of the railway company to plead or in any adequate way call the attention of the court below to the
fact that, in connection with the proper construction of
the statute, the benefit of the due faith and credit clause
of the Constitution of the United States was relied on.
We say this -because the statement which we have previously made of the case fails to show from first to last,
even up to and including the application for rehearing,
the assertion of any claim to the protection of the full
faith and credit clause. Indeed, that statement not only
shows a failure to make such claim, but discloses such
direct.and express action on the part of the railway company as justly to give rise to the inference that a reliance
upon any claim of Federal right resulting from the full
faith and credit clause was not thought to be involved in
the case. We say this, because the frequent and reiterated
assertions of Federal right, based solely upon the equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, sustains
such conclusion.
Further, even if, for the sake-of the argument oily, the
failure to plead the full faith and credit clause, or to direct
the attention of the court below to the fact that reliance
was placed upon that clause, could be supplied upon the
theory that'as the cause of action was based upon an Indiana statute, by implication the due faith and credit
clause was necessarily involved, nevertheless the contention would be without merit. This follows because, as
pointed out in Finney v. Guy, 189 U. S. 335, 340, and
Allen. v. Allegheny County, 196 U. S. 458, 463, it is not
true to say that necessaarily in every case where the court
of one State is called upon to determine the proper construction of a statute of anothenr'Sate, la question under
the Constitution of the United States arises. Although
the Indiana statute was at issue and its meaning was
necesgarily involved, the duty of construing it rested-upon
the court belov4 The general. rule is that in the absence

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

of a statute to the contrary if a settled construction by
the court of last resort of a State enacting a statute is relied upon to control the judgment of the court of another
State in interpreting the statute, such settled construction must be pleaded and proved. Eastern Bldg. & Loan
Assn. v. Ebaugh, 185 U. S. 114, and cases cited. As,
however, it is not asserted that there was a statute of
Kentucky controlling the courts of that State in construing the statutes of other States, and as there was no pleading or proof as to the existence of any such settled construction, it follows that there is nothing presented, which
can be held to have deprived the court below of its power
to exercise its independent judgment in interpreting the
statute. Our duty, of course, is confined to determining
whether error was committed by the court below as to the
Federal questions involved, and as it is impossible to
predicate error as to matters not pleaded or proved in the
court below, which were essential to be pleaded and
proved, it follows that the contention concerning the
denial df the protection of the full faith and credit clause
furnishes no ground for reversal. Johnson v. N. Y. Life
Ins. Co., 187 U. S. 491, 495.
The equal protection of the law clause. That the Fourteenth Amendment was not intended to and does not
strip the States of the power to exert their lawful police
authority is settled, and requires no reference to authorities. And it is equally settled-as we shall hereafter
take occasion to show-as the essential result of the elementary doctrine that the equal protection of the law
clause does not restrain the normal exercise of governmental power, but only abuse in the exertion of such authority, therefore that clause is noi offended against
simply because as the result of the exercise of the power
to classify some inequality may be occasioned. That is
to say, as the power to classify is not taken away by the
operation of the equal protection of the law clause, a wide

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. MELTON.
218 U. S.

53

Opinion of the Court.

scope of legislative discretion may be exerted in classifying without conflicting with the constitutional prohibition.
It is beyond doubt foreclosed that the Indiana statute
does not offend against the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, because it subjects railroad employ6s to a different rule as to the doctrine of fellowservant from that which prevails as to other employments
in that State. Tullis v. Lake Erie & W. R. R. Co., 175
U. S. 348; Pittsburg &c. Ry. Co. v. Ross, 212 U. S. 560.
But while conceding this the argument is that classification of railroad employs for the purpose of the doctrine
of fellow-servant can only consistently with equality and
uniformity embrace such employ~s when exposed to dangers peculiarly resulting from the operation of a railroad,
thus affording ground for distinguishing them for the purpose of classification from co-employ6s not subject to like
hazards or employs engaged in other occupations. The
argument is thus stated: "Plaintiff in error does not question the right of the legislature of Indiana to, classify
railroads in order to impose liability upon them for injuries to their employ6s incident to railroad hazards, but
it does insist that to make this a constitutional exercise
of legislative power the liability of the railroads must be
made to depend upon the character of the employment
and. not upon the character of the employer." Thus
stated, the argument tends to confuse the question' for
decision, since there is no contention that the statute as
construed bases any classitication upon some supposed
distinction in the person of the employer. The idea evidently intended to be expressed by the argument is, that
although, speaking in a general sense, it be true that. the
hazards arising from the operation of railroads are such
that a classification of railroad employ~s is justified, yet
as in operating railroads sdme employs are subject to
risks peculiar to such operation aid others to risks which

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

however serious they may be, are not in the proper sense
risks arising from the fact that the employ~s are engaged
in railroad'work, the legislative authority in classifying
may not confound the two by considering in a generic
sense the nature and character of the work performed by
railroad employ~s collectively considered, but must consider and separately provide for the distinctions occasioned
by the varying nature and character of the duties which
railroad operatives may be called upon to discharge. in
other words, reduced to its ultimate analysis the contention comes to this, that by the operation of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment the States
are prohibited from exerting their legitimate police powers
upon grounds of the generic distinction obtaining between
persons and things, however apparent such distinction
may be, but, on the contrary, must legislate upon the basis
of a minute consideration of the distinctions which may
arise from accidental circumstances as to the persons and
things coming within the general class provided for. When
the proposition is thus accurately fixed it necessarily results that in effect it denies the existence of the power to
classify, and hence must rest upon. the assumption that
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
has a scope and effect upon the lawful authority of the
States contrary to the doctrine maintained by this court
without deviation. This follows since the necessary consequence of the argument is to virtually challenge the
legislative power to classify and the numerous decisions
upholding that authority. To this destructive end it is
apparent the argument must come, since it assumes that
however completely a classification may be justified by
general considerations, such classification may not be-made
if inequalities be detected as to some persons embraced
within the general class by a critical analysis of the relation of the persons or things otherwise embraced within
the general class. A brief reference to some of the cases

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. r. MELTON.
218 U. S.

55

Opinion of the Court.

dealing with the power of a State to classify will make the
error of the contention apparent.
In Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S.
294, 296, while declaring that the power of a State to distinguish, select and classify objects of legislation was of
course not without limitation,'it was said, "necessarily
this power must have a wide range of discretion." After'
referring to various decisions of this court, it was observed:
"There is therefore no precise application of the rule
of reasonableness of classification, and the rule of'equality
permits many practical -inequalities. And necessarily so.
In a classification for governmental purposes there cannot
be an exact exclusion or inclusion of persons and things."
Again considering the subject in Orient Ins. Co. v.
Daggs, 172 U. S. 557, it was reiterated that the legislature
of a State has necessarily a wide range of discretion in
distinguishing, selecting and classifying, and it was declared that it was sufficient to satisfy the demand of the
Constitution if a classification was practical and not
palpably arbitrary.
In Minnesota Iron Co. v. Kline, 199 U. S. 593, a statute
.of Minnesota, providing that the liability of railroad
companies for damages to cmploy6s should not be diminished by reason of accident occurring through the
negligence of fellow-servants, was held not to discriminate
against any class of raroads, or to deny the equal protection of the laws because of a proviso which excepted
employ6s engaged in construction of new and unopened
railroads. In the course of the opinion tle court said
(p. 598): "The whole case is put on the proviso, and the
argument with regard to that is merely one of the many
attempts to impart an overmathematical nicety to the
prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment.'" These
principles were again appl;ed in Martitz v. Pittsburg &c.
R. R. Co., 20:3 U. S.284, and the doctrines were also fully

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

considered and reiterated at this term in Southwestem Oil
Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S. 114.
And coming to consider the concrete application made
of these general principles in the decisions of this court
which have construed the statute here in question, and
statutes of the same general character enacted in States
other than Indiana, we think when rightly analyzed it
will appear that they are decisive against the contention
now made. It is true that in the Tullis case, which came
here on certificate, the nature and character of the work
of the railroad employd who was injured was not stated,
and that reference in the course of the opinion was made
to some state -cases, limiting the right to classify to employ~s engaged in the movement of trains. But that it
was not the intention of the court to thereby intimate
that a classification if not so restricted would be repugnant
to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, will be made clear by observing that the previous
case of Chicago &c. R. Co. v. Pontius, 157 U. S: 209, was
cited approvingly, in which, under a statute of Kansas
classifying railroad employ6s, recovery was allowed to a
bridge carpenter employed by the railroad company,
who was injured while attempting to. load timber on a
car. And in the opinion in the Pontius case there was
approvingly cited a decision of the Court of Appeals of
the Eighth Circuit (Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Stahley,
(12 Fed. Rep. 362), wherein it was held that under the
same statute an employ6 injured in a round-house while
engaged in lifting a driving rod for attachment to a new
engine could recover by virtue of the statute. All this is
made plainer by the ruling in St. Louis Merchants' Bridge
Terminal Ry. Co. v. Callahan, 194 U. S. 628, where, upon
the authority of the Tullis case, the court affirmed a judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri, which held that.
recovery might be had by a section hand upon a railroad
who, while engaged in warning passersby in a street be-

SHEVLIN-CARPENTER CO. v. MINNESOTA.
218 U. S.

Syllabus.

neath an overhead bridge, was struck by a tie thrown from
the structure.
While, as we have. previously said, it is true there are
state decisions dealing with statutes classifying railroad
employ~s sustaining the restricted power to classify which
is here insisted upon, we do not think it is necessary to
review them or to notice those tending to the contrary.
They are referred-to in the opinions rendered in the court
below. Nor do we think our duty in this respect is enlarged because since the judgment below was rendered
the court of last resort in Indiana (Indianapolis&c. Co. v.
Kinney, 171 Indiana, 612, and Cleveland, C. C. & St. L.
Ry. Co. v. Foland, decided April 20, 1910, and not yet
reported) has, upon the theory that it w. s necessary to
save the statute in question from being declared repugnant to the equality clause of the. state constitution and
the Fourteenth Amendment, unequivocally held that the
Statute must be construed as restricted to employ6s engaged in train service.

Affirmed.

SHEVLIN-CARPENTER COMPANY v. STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 139.

Argued April 6, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.

Where the purpose of a state statute does not depend upon the inseparableness of its punishments the fact that a statute provides
both double damages and fine and imprisonment does not necessarily prevent a construction that the provisions are independent.
There must be a first jeopardy before there can be a second and on the
first the defense~of second jeopardy cannot be raised in anticipation
of deprivation of the constitutional immunity on a subsequent trial.

