INTERSTATE COMM. COM. v. C., B. & Q.

R.I. CO. 113

Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v.
CHICAGO, BURLINGTON AND QUINCY RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 641.

Argued April 5, 6, 1910.-i)ecided May 31, 1910.

This case involves the same questions of law as were involved in the
preceding case and is decided on authority thereof.
171 Fed. Rep. 680, reversed.
THE

facts, which involve the validity of certain orders

of the Interstate Commerce Commission reducing rail-

road freight rates, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Wade H. Ellis and Mr. Luther M. Walter, Special
Assistants to the Attorney General, with whom Mr.
Edwin P. Grosvenor, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. William D. McHugh and Mr. Samuel A. Lynde
for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case was argued and submitted with Nos. 6(3 and
664, as involving the same general questions. It was disposed of in the court below with those cases in the same
opinion, (171 Fed. Rep. 680,) and on the same ground,
to wit, that the effect of the order of the Commission to
enjoin which the suit was brought apportioned "out the
country into zones tributary to given trade centers and
not tributary to others," resulting in protection and favor
to the first. The case is here on appeal from an order
VOL. CCXViI-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

granting a prelimihary injunction, which was moved upon
the bill (to which there was a demurrer by the Interstate
Commerce Commission) and upon certain supporting
affidavits.
The order enjoined was made by the Commission in a
proceeding instituted before it by one George J.Kendall,
in which he attacked certain rates charged by certain
carriers from New York, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha, and
points taking similar rates to Denver, on the ground that
the same were excessive and discriminatory, and attacked
rates from Denver to Salt Lake City on similar grounds.
By an amended complaint certain commodity rates were
also attacked.
After hearing and argument the Commission made its
report, from which the following is an extract:
"In the Burnham, Hanna, Munger Case, supra (14
I. C. C. Rep. 299), we found that the defendant carriers
had for years maintained a line of proportional class rates
between Chicago and the Twin Cities, applicable on
traffic from the Atlantic seaboard, one-third less than
their local class rates ,between Chicago and the Twin.
Cities, and that their local rates had not thereby or therefore been pulled down or reduced. We cannot accept the
theory that if in this case the through rates from Chicago
and St. Louis to Denver are reduced, like reductions in
the local rates from Chicago or St. Louis to the Missouri
River or from the Missouri River to Denver must automatically follow. If rates applicable only to through
business and that are materially lower than the local rates
can be maintained between Chicago and St. Pqul, and in
the many other instances which could be cited where the
carriers adopt and maintain the same principle, without
forcing reductions in the local rates, it is obvious that the
same thing can be (lone between Chicago and .he Missouri
River or between Chicago ad Denver. As has been seen,
the class rates from the Missouri River to Denver, short

INTERSTATE COMM. COM. v. C., B. & Q. R. R. CO. 115
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

line distance 538 miles, are on a scale of $1.25 per 100
pounds, first class, and from. Denver to Utah common
points, about 650 miles, they are on a scale of $1.64 per
100 pounds, first class. Measured by any test, these rates
are in both instances unreasonable and excessive. It
seems obvious that they must be revised, either by voluntary action of the carriers in conformity with the principles
announced in the Spokane Case, supra (15 I. C. C. Rep.
376), or in some other proceeding before this commission.
For that reason no reduction of those rates will be ordered
in this case, although upon the record we are convinced
that they are unwarrantedly high, and that reasonable
reduction therein would not work any undue reduction
in the revenues of defendants. If those rates are reduced
so that the combination on the Missouri River or on
Denver results in reasonable through rates it does not
necessarily follow that these through rates must again be
reduced. Certainly it is better in every instance where
important readjustment of rates is necessary to have it
worked out by the carriers or with their cobperation, if
that be possible.
"The present class rates from Chicago to the Missouri
River are, inocents per 100 pounds, as follows:
E
D
1 2 3 4 5 A B C
Class ........
Rate ........ 80 65 45 32 27 32 27 22 18'2 16
"The present class rates from Chicago to Denver are,
in cents per 100 pounds, as follows:
D
E
2
3 4 5 A B C
1
Class ........
Rate ........ 205 165 125 97 77 92 72 62 53' 2 46
being made up of the sums of the class rates from ('hicago
to the Missouri Rivcr crossings, as above, and the class
rates from the Missouri River to Denver, as follows:
2
3 4 5 A B C D 1
Class ........ 1
Rate ........ 125 100 ,0 65 50 60 45 40 35 30
"The preset (.ass rates from St. Louis to )enver are,
in cents per 100 )oulds, as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

Class ........
1
2 3 4 5 A
B C D E
Rate .......
18& 145 115 92 72 84Y9, 64/ 57 48/ 41
being made up of the class rates from St. Louis to the
Missouri River, in cents per 100 pounds, as follows:
Class ........
1 2 3 4 5
A
B
C D
E
Rate ........
60 45 35 27 -22 242 19Y .17 13Y2 11
andthe above-named lass rates from the Missouri River
to Denver.
"As hereinbefore stated, we find that this rate adjustment is unjustly discriminatory in favor of the Missouri
River cities and against Denver. The through class rates
from Chicago to Denver and from St. Louis to Denver
are unreasonably high in and of themselves. The reduction of those rates as herein ordered will not involve any
unreasonable or undue reduction of the revenues of the
defendants affected thereby, and for these reasohs and
upon the whole record we are of the opinion that for the
future reason'able class rates from Chicago to Denver
should not exceed, in cents per 100 pounds, the following:
Class ........
1
2
3 4 5 A
B C D E
Rate ........
180 145 110 85 67 8O2 63 54 47 40
and that reasonable class rates from St. Louis to Denver
should not exceed, in cents per 100 pounds, the following:
Class ........ 1
2
3
4
5. A B C D E
Rate ........
162 127 101 80Y2 63 74 56 50 42 36"
An order was directed to be entered in accordance with
thosq views, which was done, and the railroads were required thereby to cease and desist, on or before the first
of May, 1909, and for a. period of two years, to exact for
the transportation of traffic rates in excess of those above
mentioned, respectively, from Chicago and St. Louis to
Denver, and to establish on or before that date and maintain said rates between said cities.
The railroads affected, to wit, Chicago, Burlington and
Quincy Railroad Company, the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railway Company, Chicago and Northwestern

INTERSTATE COMM. COM. v. C., B. & Q. R. R. CO. 117
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Railway Company, Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul
Railway Company, the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe
Railway Company, Missouri Pacific Railway Company,
Union Pacific Railroad Company, and the Wabash Railroad Company, filed a bill to enjoin the enforcement of the
order.
In their bill the companies described their respective.
roads and the termini of the roads, and alleged .that the
companies were respectively engaged as common carriers
in the transportation of property by railroad by continuous carriage or shipment from and to the points designated in the report and order of the Commission. The
bill alleged the relation of the carriers to one another and
the extent of their roads westward and eastward and their
relation to roads east of Chicago and the Mississippi River.
The manner of charging and adjusting rates is described
in the bill and the classifications of freight which existed
as in the bill in Nos. 663 ani 664.
In the bill in those cases the Mississippi River was alleged to be a basing point for freight destined to the Missouri River cities. In the case at bar the Missouri River
is added as a basing point in the making of rates for the
transportation of merchandise originating east of the Mississippi River, destined to territory between the rivers
and to the Missouri River cities and west thereof. And
it is alleged that the making of such basing points "has
been due both to natural physical conditions and to the
natural development of railroad construction and operation to and beyond said rivers and in territory between
the same, and has naturally resulted in the evolution and
development of railroad transportation, and the business
and commerce in and through Western territory."
The facts which caused such result are set out at length
and are in substance that railroads were built westward
to certain points and that other and independent roads
were constructed farther westward, each road charging its

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

separate rate, and that the places to which and from
which the roads were built were natural distributing centers, "and were able to compete on the basis of equality
with each other in the distribution and sale of their merchandise."
The relation of the two rivers as basing points and why
the Missouri was made one is set forth in the following
paragraph:
"Your orators further aver that long prior to the construction of any railroad westward across the Missouri
River to the city of Denver the said Missouri River had
been made a basing point in the making of rates to territory west of.said Missouri River, and that, as is above
stated, for many years the only railroads serving the said
Missouri River cities were lines of railroads entering said
cities from the east and terminating there, and lines of
railroad beginning at said cities and extending west therefrom, and that at the time the said four lines of railroad
of your orators, the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company, the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
Railway Company, the Missouri Pacific Railway Company, and the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway
Company, were constructed west of and across the said
Missouri River to the city of Denver, or other Colorado
common points, the said Missouri River cities and the
commercial interests therein had become extensive and
important, and the competition with the railroads whose
lines terminated at said Missouri River cities had become
so active and the competition between the several distributing points on said Missouri River and east thereof
had become so extensive and important that the said four
companies whose lines were extended across said river and
westward therefrom were compelled by reason of commercial and competitive conditions to recognize, adopt and
apply at said Missouri River cities the said system of
basing rates. on the Missouri River which had always

INTERSTATE COMM. COM. v. C., B. & Q. I. R. CO. 119
218 U. S.

Opinion-of the Court.

theretofore obtained as hereinabove set forth." That is,
as had obtained on the Mississippi River.
The other allegations supplement the above and are
substantially like those which formed the basis of the contentions made and argued in the other cases.
The bill, as we have said; was supported by affidavits.
They were substantially the same and set forth the acquaintance of their makers with railroad construction,
development and management. They set forth with detail the facts and circumstances which their makers conceived to be determinative of the questions involved and
a justification of the system of ratemaking established by
the companies, and which, they averred, affected "vitally
all the important lines of business of the Western country."
They further averred that a change in the system, whereby
the practices under it "should be forbidden, would be a
change which would revolutionize the methods of doing
business throughout the Western country, and would
work injury to the west and its business, the extent of
which would be so great as to be difficult of computation."
It will be seen, therefore, that this case and the other
cases are alike except as to the points of destination of
the roads and the cities that are concerned with the rates
charged and reduced. This and they turn on the same
question of the power of the Commission, the effect of its
order on business conditions and the systems of ratemaking by the railroads, its effect upon the revenues of the
companies, and by their reduction to cause a deprivation
of the property of the companies without due process of
law, in violation of the Fifth Amendment of the C'onstitution of the United States.
Further elaboration we think is unnecessary, and on
the authority of cases Nos. 663 and 664 the decree of the
('ircuit Court is reversed and the ease remanded with
directions to set aside the injunction and dismiss the bill.
So ordered.

