GRIFFITH v. CONNECTICUT.
. Syllabus.

218 U.S.

Illinois Central company, and, in any event, the meager
testimony introduced at the hearing is utterly insufficient
to afford a basis for the argument. It does not satisfactorily appear that other railroad corporations were not
assessed in the same way and at the same time, or, assuming that they were so assessed, that they are not liable to
pay taxes accordingly. The Court of Appeals of the
Commonwealth in denying the petition for a rehearing
said: "As shown by the opinions of this court cited in the
opinion herein, taxes have been imposed based on the
assessments in controversy. All other tax-payers than
railroads were taxed and if some railroads escaped, it is no
reason that others should go free while all tax-payers of
other classes paid their taxes. If any railroads escaped
they are still liable for their taxes unless barred by limitation."
No conclusion to the contrary is justified by the record
and the contention that the plaintiff in error has been
denied the equal protection of the laws, as the case lies
before us, is without merit.
Judgment affirmed.

GRIFFITH v. STATE OF CONNECTICUT.
ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

ERRORS

OF

THE

STATE OF CONNECTICUT.

No. 514. Motion to dismiss or affirm.

Submitted November 28, 1910.-

Decided December 12, 1910.

Fixing maximum rates of interest on money loaned within the State
by persons pubject to its jurisdiction is clearly within the police
power of.the'State, and the details are within legislative discretion
if not unreasonably and 'arbitrarily exercised.
Classification, on a reasonable basis of subjects, within the police power,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

218 U. S.

is within legislative discretion and a reasonable selection which is
not merely arbitrary and without real difference does not deny
equal protection of the laws within the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The statute of Connecticut of 1907, limiting interest on loans, is not
unconstitutional as denying equal protection of the laws because it
excepts loans made by national and state banks and trust companies and bona fide mortgages, on real and personal property: the
classification is a reasonable one.
The contract clause of the Federal Constitution does not give validity
to contracts that are properly prohibited by statute.
If the validity of the particular subject of classification assailed has
not been so foreclosed by prior decisions as to render discussion
frivolous the motion to dismiss will be denied, but if, as in this case,
it is manifest that the contention is, in view of prior decisions, without merit, the motion to affirm will prevail.
83 Connecticut, 1, affirmed.

UPON a prosecution originating in the Police Court
6f the city of Hartford, in Hartford County, Connecticut,
the plaintiff in error was tried and convicted in the Superior Court of the county upon an information alleging, in
six counts, the commission of offenses against chapter 238
of the Public Acts of Connecticut of 1907. The offenses

charged were the exacting on certain loans of money a
rate of interest greater than fifteen per cent per annum,

contrary to the provisions of the first section of the act,
and in accepting notes for an amount greater than that

actually loaned with intent to evade the provisions of
said first section, contrary to the provisions of the second
section of the act.

During the course of the trial the

accused, in various forms, assailed the validity of the
statute referred to because of repugnancy to the contract
clause of the Constitution of the United States and to the

equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
From a judgment imposing a fine as to the-conviction upon
each count an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of
Errors. The judgment of the Superior Court was affirmed
(83 Connecticut, 1), and the case was then brought here.

GRIFFITH v. CONNECTICUT.
218 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Since the filing of the record the State of Connecticut has
moved that the writ of error be dismissed, or, in the alternative, that the judgment be affirmed.
Mr. I. Henry Harris,in opposition to motion to dismiss
or affirm, for plaintiff in error:
The statute cannot be upheld upon the ground of public.
interest. It is not a police regulation; there is no care
imposed or restriction in the loan of money by the favored
few-simply an arbitrary, unreasonable limitation upon
all except those privileged under the statute. Conceding
that reasonable and necessary classification is not offensive
to the Constitution a palpably arbitrary selection cannot
be justified by calling it classification. Atchison, T. & S. F.
R. Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96; Cotting v. Goddard, 183
U. S. 79; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 539.
None of the cases cited for the defendant in error is in
point.
While the regulation of interest charges is undoubtedly
the proper subject of state legislation, this statute is not
a regulation of interest charges. It is in effect a special
statute permitting only certain favored individuals or
corporations to do an act or conduct a business. There is
no fair reason for the law that would not require with
equal force its extension to others it leaves untouched.
Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co..v. May, 194 U. S. 269.
Legislation of the kind here in question is a violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment. Cotter v. Kansas City Stock
Yard Co., 183 U. S. 79. The writ is not obviously frivolous
or plainly unsubstantial. It is not devoid of merit. A
careful analysis of the previous cases is necessary before
it can be determined that the plaintiff in error must fail
here and the motion to dismiss should be denied.
Mr. Hugh M. Alcorn, in support of motion to dismiss or
affirm, for defendant in error:
For the first prosecution under this act see State v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Ddendant in Error.

218 U. S.

Hurlburt, 82 Connecticut, 232, and for opinion in this
case see 83 Connecticut, 1.
The act has already been twice construed. The writ of
error does not present a substantial Federal question
which is now open to discussion. It appears from the face
of the record that the determination by the state court is
so plainly right as not to require further argument. Fay.
v. Crozier, 217 U. S. 455; Kidd, Dater Co. v. Museelman
Co., 217 U. S. 461; Standard Oil Co. v. Tennessee, 217
U. S. 413; Hannis Distilling Co. v. Baltimore, 216 U. S.
285; Williams v. First National Bank, 216 U. S. 582;
Barrington v. Missouri, 205 U. S. 483; Kaufman (t Sons
Co. v. Smith, 216 U. S. 610; Ornstine v. Carp, 204 U. S.
669; Thomas v. Iowa, 209 U. S. 58.
The regulation of interest charges has been universally
recognized as a proper subject of state legislation, and.the
question of the constitutionality of this kindred legislation has invariably been held by this court to be within
the exclusive province of the state courts. Missouri,
Kansas & Texas Trust Co. v. Krumseig, 172 U. S. 355,
359, and cases cited.
The enactment of this statute is clearly within the
police power of the State, and the validity of such legislation is to be determined solely by the state court. Watson
v. Maryland, 218 U. S. 173; Franklin v. South Carolina,
218 1J. S. 161; Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S.
114; Welch v. Swasey, 214 U. S. 01; Muller v. Oregon, 208
U. S. 412.
There is nothing in the legislation complained of which
offends § 10, Art. I, of the Constitition of the United
States. Bishop's Fund v. Rider, 13 Connecticut, 93, 94;
State v. Griffith, 83 Connecticut, 3.
The contracts in this case were prohibited by the act of
1907. Therefore no legal obligation exists, and the case
does not come within the puryiew of this clause of the
Constitution. Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat.

GRIFFITH v. CONNECTICUT.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

639; Hunt v. Hunt, 131 U. S. 165; Stone v. Mississippi,
101 U. S. 814.
That the statute does not violate the Fourteenth Amendment has beqn repeatedly decided by this court. District
of Columbia v. Brooke, 214 U. S: 150; Barbier v. Connolly,
113 U. S. 31; Atchison, Topeka &c.R. R. Co. v. Matthews,
174'U. S. 96; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yard Co., 183
U. S. 79; Tracy v. Ginzberg, 205 U. S. 178; Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co. v. Melton, 218 U.. S. 36.
The power to regulate interest charges has been exercised by every civilized nation; ancient or modern, whose
laws survive in history, and this power has so long been
recognized as a constitutional exercise of legislative authority, and has been so uniformly sustaiped by the courts
upon grounds of public policy that it is now too late to ask
this court to consider it an open question. Dunham v.
Gould, 16 Johns. (N. Y.)' 367.
In view of the repeated decisions of this court upholding the right of the States under the Federal Constitution
to make and enforce laws of this character, the writ of
error has no merit in it.MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the-foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The motion to dismiss or affirm is in effect based upon
the claim that the assignmeits of error present no substantial Federal question. As the contentions urged required for their elucidation a consideration of the provisions of the statute charged to have been violated, we
excerpt the first and second sections of the act. They are
as follows:
"SEc. 1.. No person, firm, or corporation, or any agent
thereof, other than a national bank or a bank or trust company duly incorporated under the laws of this State, or, a
pawnbroker a* provided in chapter 235 of the Public Acts

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

of 1905, shall directly or indirectly loan money to any person and directly or indirectly charge, demand, accept or
make an agreement to receive therefor interest at a greater
rate than fifteen per centum per annum. The provisions
of this section shall not apply to loans made to any national bank or any bank or trust company duly incorporated under the laws of this State or to any boia .fie
mortgage of real or personal property.
"SEc. 2. No person, firm, or corporation, with intent
to evade section onehereof, shall accept a note for a greater
amount than that actually *loaned."
The claim that the statute operates to deny the equal
protection of the laws is based upon the provision exempting from the operation of the terms of § 1 "any national
bank or any bank or trust company duly incorporated
under the laws of this State" and" any bona fide mortgage
of real or personal property." The contentions elaborated in the assignments of error find succinct expression
in the following proposition set out in the brief filed in
opposition to the motion to dismiss:
"It is claimed by the plaintiff in error that the statute
in question is an arbitrary, unjust and unreasonable selection, favoring a class, is detrimental to the public, stifles
competition and that no good reason exists for the granting of the privilege of loaning money at any rate of interest
without taking a mortgage on real or personal property
to the favored class to the exclusion of all others.
*

. *

*

*

*

*

*

*

"It is not a police regulation; there is no care imposed
or restriction in the loan of money by the favored fewsimply an arbitrary, unreasonable limitation upon all
except those privileged under the statute:
*

*.

*

*

.$

*

*

.*.

"The regulation of interest charges is undoubtedly the
proper subject of State legislation, but in the first place
this statute is not a regulation of interest charges. It is

GRIFFITH v. CONNECTICUT.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in effect a special statute permitting only certain favored
individuals or corporations to do an act or conduct a
business.
"There is 'no fair reason for the law that would not
require with equal force its extension to others it leaves
untouched.'"
It is elementary that the subject of the maximum
amount to be charged by persons or corporations subject
to the jurisdiction of a State for the use of money loaned
within the jurisdiction of the State is one within the
police power of such State. The power to regulate existing, the details of the legislation and the exceptions proper
to be made rest primarily within the discretion of the
state legislature, and "unless such regulations are so unreasonable and extravagant as to interfere with property
and personal rights of citizens, -unnecessarily and arbitrarily, they are within the power of the State; and the
classification of the subjects of such legislation, so long
as such classification has a reasonable basis, and is not
merely arbitrary selection without real difference between
the subjects included and those omitted from the law,
does not deny to the citizen the equal protection of the
laws." Watson v. Maryland, ante, .p. 173, and cases
cited. In the case at bar the Supreme Court of Errors
ruled that the statute was not repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment, following a prior ruling to that effect made
in State v. Hurlburt, 82 Connecticut, 232.
In the Hurlburt case, discussing contentions similar to
those here urged against the validity of the Connecticut
statute of 1907, based upon the exemption clause in question, the court said:
"The exception from its operation of loans by national
banks was merely a recognition of the legal effect, in excluding state legislation on the same subject, of the statutes of the United States which regulate their right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

make such contracts. The further exception in favor of
loans by trust companies chartered by this State was fully
justified by the peculiar character of these institutions,
each created by a special act of legislation, and subject
to the inspection of the bank commissioners. Gen. St.
1902, cc.. 199, 202. There was also reasonable cause for
the exception as to pawnbrokers. Their business can only
be carried on by those found by public authority to be
suitable persons to engage in it, and its character is such
as to make it not improper to allow a charge of interest
beyond the limit of 15 per cent a year. Pub. Acts 1905,
p. 438, c. 235. There was also sufficient reason for restricting the statute so that it should not apply to loans
made to any bank or to any trust company chartered by
this State. Such institutions, managed by those accustomed to financial operations and familiar with the worth
of money in the market from day to day, might well be
deemed to require no statutory protection against being
forced by their financial necessities to pay excessive interest for moneys borrowed. Nor is the act invalidated
by the exception of mortgages.
"Publicity is one of the best safeguards against the
making of unconscionable contracts. Under our recording system, it is rare that any bona fide mortgage, either
of real or personal property, fails to be promptly spread
upon the records of the town in which is situated the
property which is its subject. So far as concerns chattel
mortgages, also, our General Statutes of 1902 (sections
4132, 4134) had already made other'and reasonable provision as to the rate of interest which might be charged,
or which, in case of foreclosure, could -be allowed. The
general assembly, ihrespect to the matter of usury, had
the right to deal with different classes of money lenders
or money borrowers in a different way, provided there
were nothing apparently unreasonable in creating such
distinctions, and all the members of each class were treated

. GRIFFITH v. CONNECTICUT.
218 U. S.

-

.Opinion of the Court.

in the same manner. Heath & Milligan Co. v. Worst, 207
U. S. 338, 354; Home Telephone Co. v. Los Angeles, 211
U. S. 265, 281. The enactment of the statute now in
question fell within this right. Norwich Gas & Electric Co.
v. Norwich, 76 Connecticut, 565, 573."
In the argument on behalf of the plaintn in error no
attempt is -made to meet the force of the foregoing state-'
ments of the court below; and, clearly, in the light of such
declarations, it is impossible to conclude otherwise than
that the clissification complained of has a reasonable
basis, -and that. the exemption of national banks, etc., was
not a mere arbitrary selection.
In the argument for plaintiff in error no reference is
made .to the claim urged below of the protection of the
contract clause of the Constitution. The claim appears
to have had reference to a provision contained in § 5 of
the act of -1907, forbidding the enforcement of contracts
made in violation'of the act, thereby operating to deny
validity to such contracts when made by those not within
the exempted classes. •There wag power to enact the
provision (Missouri, Kansas &c. Trust Co. v. Krumseig,
172 U. S. 351, 358-9), and, as said by the court below, the
contract clause of the Constitution of the United States
"does not give validity to contracts which are properly
prohibited by statute."
The Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut did not,
err in its judgment of affirmance. As, however, the particular classification here assailed has not been the subject
of express consideration in any prior decision of this
court, and hence the power to make it cannot be said to
have been so explicitly foreclosed as to cause contention
on -the subject to be obviously frivolous, the motion to
dismiss cannot prevail. Louisuille & N. R. R. Co. v.
Melton, ante, p. 36. It is, however, manifest from the
analysis which has been made of prior decisions that
applying the principles settled by the cases which- have

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

gone before, the contentions now advanced against the
correctness of the judgment are so wholly without merit
as not to require further argument. The motion to affirm
must therefore prevail.
Affirmed.

GRIFFITH, alias GRIFFIN v. STATE OF

CONNECTICUT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ERRORS OF THE.
STATE OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 515.

Motion to dismiss or affirm. Submitted November 28, 1910.
Decided December 12, 1910.

Decided on authority of Griffith v. Connecticut, ante, p. 563.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. I. Henry Harrisfor plairitiff in error.
Mr. Hugh M. Alcorn for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The parties to this record are the same as in. No. 514,
just decided, ante, p. 563, and the questions involved are
the same, the prosecution being for similar offenses against
the Connecticut act of 1907. Both cases were tried together. Upon the conviction in this, however, the trial
cotirt imposed the penalty of imprisonment. The two
cases were disposed of by the Supreme Court of Errors in
one opinion. As the decision in No. 514 is n~cessarily
controlling, it follows that the judgment-of the Supreme
Court of Errors of Connecticut must be and it is
Affirmed.

