ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. KENTUCKY.. 551
218 U. S.

Syllabus.

therefore, its action is not reviewable under the act of
March 2, 1907. The contention is untenable. The act of
March 2, 1907, expressly provides that a writ of error may

be taken by the United States :'from a decision or judgment . . . quashing any indictment, or any count
thereof, where such decision or judgment is based upon
the invalidity or construction of the statute upon which
the indictment is founded." United States v. Stevenson,
215 U. S. 190. And we have pointed out the decision of
the Circuit Court in this case was so based.
On the merits the case is determined by the opinion
in No. 380, ante, p. 532.

Reversed and remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL

RAILROAD

COMPANY

v.

COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 16. Argued October 26, 27, 1910.-Decided December 5, 1910.
If the law of the State permits it, the fact that the making of an assessment is delayed does not detract from the authority or the duty of
the assessing power to make it.
The fact that the assessment is made by memoranda on the assessment envelope or jacket, does not render it ineffectual as lacking in
due process of law because not recorded in a permnanent book, and
where the -state court has held that an assessment 6o made is good
under the law of the State, this court will not hold that it denied
the party assessed due process of law or equal protection of the law.
A construction by the state court that aii assessment made by the
board of assessors cannot enter into an arrangement with the parties
assessed contemplating the non-payment of the tax based thereon'

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

218 U. S.

does not deprive those parties of any constitutional rights where no
ground is shown for impugning the assessment so made.
The Federal Constitution does not preclude a State from requiring a
corporation actually controlling and exercising a franchise to pay
the tax legally assessed thereon, although not the actual owner of
the franchise.
When the record does not show that others similarly situated escaped
the taxation imposed on the plaintiff in error, and the state court
has declared that if any escaped they are still liable, this court regards the contention of denial of equal protection of the law as without merit.
128 Kentucky, 628, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of an assessment,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edmund F. Trabue, with whom Mr. Blewett Lee,
Mr. John C. Doolan and Mr. Attilla Cox, Jr., were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error:
This court has jurisdiction if the- state court .decided"
the Federal questions, although first appearing in the
petition for rehearing. Mallett v. North Carolina, 181
U. S. 589, 592; Leigh v. Green, 193 U. S. 79, 85; Sullivan
v. Texas, 207 U. S. 416, 422.
Even if the envelope indorsement were a record of
assessment, the assessment would, nevertheless, deny due
process and equal protection because all other railroads
of the State were assessed and paid franchise taxes upon a
different basis, or method of assessment. Raymond v.
Chicago Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20.
There is nothing to indicate that the State proposes or
ever intends to attempt to undo as to the other companies its action of 1899, and both cannqt stand. The
case is one of spoliation pure and simple, of an arbitrary
exaction without justice or reason. RailroadCo. v. Board,
85 Fed. Rep. 302, 303; Nashville &c. Co. v. Taylor, 86 Fed.
Rep. 168; Louisiana Trust Co. v. Stone, 107 Fed. Rep. 305;
National Bank v. Kimball, 103 U. S. 732, 735; Stanley v.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. KENTUCKY. 553
218 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Supervisors, 121 U. S. 535, 550; San Francisco Bank v.
Dodge, 197 U. S. 70, 81; Coulter v. Railway Co., 196 U. S.
599, distinguished; and see Kentucky Railroad Tax Cases,
115 U. S. 321, 337.
An assessment is the first element of due process in tax
proceedings. Taxation is taking property in invitum. It
is an exercise of sovereignty. It involves the power to
destroy. It must, therefore, be according to due process.
Plaintiff in error was not assessed by the jacket memoranda relied on for the amount sued for, and it is not
claimed that there was any assessment against it, or any
record of such an assessment. There was no assessment,
however, against anyone. The jacket memoranda were
simply memoranda for the Board's convenience. It does
not appear who made the memoranda, nor for what purpose. A record must have permanency. The Memoranda
indorsed upon envelopes have none. Permanency is essential to a tax record as the foundation of title.
Not only is permanency essential to the conception of a
record, but every essential proceeding must appear in some
written and permanent form in the records of the bodies authorized to act upon them. Moses v. White, 29 Michigan,
59,60; 1 Cooley on Taxation, 3d ed., 576, 597; Cleggv. State,
42 Texas, 610; Roberts v. First National Bank, 8 N. D. 504;
State v. C. & D. Ry. Co., 54 S. Car. 564; Commonwealth v.
RailroadCo., 104 Pa. St. 89; Wells v. McHenry, 7 N. D. 246.
This defect of jurisdiction cannot be remedied by curative statute. McReynolds v. Longenberger, 57 Pa. St. 13;
Flannaganv. Dunne, 105 Fed. Rep. 828; Slaughter v. City,
89 Kentucky, 13 2, 121; see Powers v. Fuller, 30 Iowa, 476,
477; Cassidy v. Young, 92 Kentucky, 227, 232; Turner v.
Pewee Valley, 100 Kentucky, 288, 291; Pratt v. Breckinridge, 112 Kentucky, 15; Alexander v. Aud, 120 Kentucky,
105; Wildharber v. Lunkenheimer, 128 Kentucky, 344, 349.
If a tax liability can be established upon such a basis as
this the fortunes of all men are in jeopardy. Western

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

218 U. S.

Union Telegraph Co. v. Howe, 180 Fed. Rep. 44, 52;
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co, v. Babcock, 204
U. S. 585, 593.
Where a tax is levied on property in proportion to its
value as determined by a board of assessors, due process
of law requires that there be a listing of the property and
its valuation as assessed upon a public record. Allen v.
McKay, 139 California, 94; Thurston v. Little, 3 Massachusetts, 429; People v. Hagadorn, 104 N. Y. 516; State v.
Wabash Ry. Co., 114 Missouri, 1; Kelly v. Herrell, 20 Fed.
Rep. 364, 369; Perkins v. Longmaid, 36 N. H. 507; People
v. Weaver, 100 U. S. 545. As to what is a record see 34
Cyc. 585; 24 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 172; State v.
Anderson, 30 La. Ann. 557, 567; Heintz v. Thayer, 92 Tex.
Sup. Ct. Rep. 658, 50 S. W. Rep. 029.
The entries on. the envelopes were not records. Cooley
on Taxation, 600. This tax is invalid because it was not
made to appear that this board of assessment ever actually
assessed the property now charged with the tax. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Montgomery County Pass. Ry. Co.,
167 Pa. St. 62; McReynolds v. Longenberger, 57 Pa. St. 13;
Howes v. Gillett, 23 Minnesota, 231; Hopper v. Malleson,
16 N. J. Eq. 382.
In order for property of a person to be taken from him
for the purposes of taxation, a record showing that he has
been assessed is just as necessary as a record showing that
there was a tax to assess against him.
As to the history of the rule requiring a record, see
Art. 37 of Magna Charta in Stat. at L. in the form made
in the ninth year of Henry III, confirmed by Edward I,
twenty-fifth year of his reign. Dowell's Hist. of Taxation, Eng.; Domesday Book and Beyond; chap. 33,
Geo. III, p. 26, Statutes at Large of England, and numerous state statutes in this country.
Due process of law forbids holding the agent for the
principal's franchise taxes. Barbour & Carroll's Statutes,

ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. KENTUCKY. 555
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

§ 4077. The assessment, if any, is against the Chesapeake•
Company. The Illinois Company was never the agent of
this company so far as operating the property was concerned. Carstairsv. Cochran, 193 U. S. 10; Thompson v.
Kentucky, 209 U. S. 340; Hannis Dist. Co. v. Baltimore,
217 U. S. 285, do not apply.
Judgment in personam is beyond the Commonwealth's
jurisdiction, and, consequently, a deprival of due process.
1 Black, Judg., § 242; Munday v. Vail, 34 N. J. L. 418;
Reynolds v. Stockton, 43 N. J. Eq. 211.
There are cases in the state courts denying the right
to a judgment which is outside the issues, where the question arose upon appeal, and where, therefore, the Federal
question of jurisdiction and due process did not arise.
Husted v. Vanness, 158 N. Y. 154; 52 N. E. Rep. 645;
Burns &c. Co. v. Doyle, 71 Connecticut, 742; 71 Am. St.
Rep. 237; Lincoln Bank v. Virgin, 36 Nebraska, 735; 55
N. W. Rep. 218; 38 Am. St. Rep. 747; Carter v. Gibson,
47 Nebraska, 655; 66 N. W. Rep. 631; Seamster v. Blackstock, 83 Virginia, 232; Wade v. Hancock, 76 Virginia,
620; Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163, 175; Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274; Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S. 409; Reynolds v. Stockton, 140 U. S. 254; Wetmore v. Karrick, 205
U. S. 141; Lumber Co. v. Knight, 217 U. $. 257.
Mr. T. L. Edelin, with whom Mr. James Breathitt, Attorney General of the State of Kentucky, Mr. Robert B.
Franklin and Mr. Clem J. Whittemore were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
The Commonwealth of Kentucky recovered judgment
in this suit against the Illinois Central Railroad Company
for the amount of the tax, for the. year 1897, upon the
franchise formerly belonging to the Chesapeake, Ohio
and Southwestern Railroad Company. The recovery

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

was based upon the fact that the Illinois Central Railroad
Company was, at the time to which the tax related, in
possession of the railroad, and was operating it under a
power of attorney from the purchaser at a judicial sale,
and had made the report which was required by the statute relating to the taxation of franchises. The judgment
was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky. 128
Kentucky, 268. The Illinois Central Company petitioned
for a rehearing, and presented the Federal questions now
urged under the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. The court entertained the
petition and extended its opinion, holding ,that no right
of the appellant under the Fourteenth Amendment had
been violated by the decision. Thereupon this writ of
error was brought, and, as the state court passed upon
the Federal questions, this court has jurisdiction. Mallett v. North Carolina, 181 U. S. 589; Leigh v. Green, 193
U. S. 79.
The validity of the statutes of Kentucky providing
for the taxation of franchises is not assailed and nothing
is shown which would open to dispute the taxable character of the particular franchise here involved. The plaintiff in error, the Illinois Central Railroad Company, contends that by virtue of the judgment it has been deprived
of property without due process of law, first, in that there
was no assessment upon which to base the recovery of
the tax; and second, in that it has been held personally
liable to pay a tax upon a franchise of which it was not
the owner. The plaintiff in error also contends that it
has been denied the equal protection of the laws, as it
insists that all other railroad corporations were assessed
for the purpose of franchise taxation upon a different
basis and by a different method, and that, as to other
railroad corporations, the assessments similar to the one
in question were abandoned.
The gist of the first contention-that there was no

ILLINOIS CENT.RAL R. R. CO. v. KENTUCKY. 557
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

assessment-is that an assessment implies a record and
that there was no record but only a memorandum; that
an assessment must be a definitive act and that here it
was only tentative.
It appears thai the railroad of the Chesapeake, Ohio
and Southwestern Railroad -Company was sold at a judicial sale in the summer of 1896, to Edward H. Harriman, who thereupon, under date of August 19, 1896,
executed a power of attorney to the Illinois Central'Railroad Company authorizing it "to take charge of the business maintenance and operation of the railroad,
together with all the land, real estate, leaseholds easements,
.
and all other corporate property, real
and personal lately belonging to the said Chesapeake, Ohio
and Southwestern Railroad Company, included in the said
sale and conveyance and all the rights, privileges, immu•nities and franchises whatsoever" which he had acquired.
It was expressly authorized to receive " all the earnings
of the said railroad," to apply the same to the expenses
incurred in its "management, maintenance and operation," and to take all proceedings necessary or expedient
for these purposes.
On September 15, 1896, the Illinois Central Company
made a report to the Auditor of Public Accounts of Kentucky with respect to the railroad formerly the property of the Chesapeake, Ohio and Southwestern Railroad
Company, in accordance with the statute governing the
assessment of franchises. This report came before the
Board of Valuation and Assessment which was charged
under the statute with the duty of making the assessment.
It was placed in -an envelope, or jacket, o4 the outside
of which a proper form was provided for the entry of the
amount of capital, surplus, undivided profits, all other
assets, total capital, the amount to be deducted for tangible property, the value of the franchise and the amount
of the tax. Below this there were blank spaces for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

insertion of the dates of the first and final notices to the
corporation, of the notice to the county clerk and of the
payment of the tax. The form upon the jacket was filled
out by the insertion of the name of the "Chesapeake,
Ohio & Southwestern R. R. Co., Louisville, Ky.," .and the
date of the report. In the columns provided f6r the purpose entries were made setting forth the "Total Capital,
$6,700,000," "Less Tangible Property, &c., $4,753,339,"
"Franchise $1,946,661," and "Tax $10,219.97." This is
the amount of the tax sued for and recovered in this
action.
-These entries were made early in the year 1898. The
fact that the making of the assessment for the year 1897
was delayed did not detract from the authority and duty
to make it. Southern Railway in Kentucky &c. v. Coulter,
113 Kentucky, 657. That the Board of Valuation and
Assessment was authorized to fix the value of the franchise and to make the entries setting forth their determination, and that the entries upon the jacket were in
fact made by the Board in the discharge of its duty, do
not admit of question. The Commonwealth of Kentucky
filed as a part of its petition in the suit a copy of the endorsement on the jacket as a correct copy of the assessment. This was introduced in evidence on the Commonwealth's behalf. The testimony presented in defense did
not in any Way challenge the authenticity or official character of the jacket entries. On the contrary, the testimony
of the former state auditor, who as such was chairman
of the Board of Valuation and Assessment, leaves no room
for doubt on this point. It also sufficiently appears upon
this record, and it is not open to dispute here, that due
notice of the assessment was given.
The point urged, in substance, is that the constitutional
right of the plaintiff in error has been violated, because
the state court has treated the entry on the jacket as a
sufficient record of the assessment. It is- said that this

ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R. CO. '. KENTUCKY. 559
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cannot be regarded as a record, because it lacks permanency. But this, of course, depends upon the means of
preservation and the nature of the"filing system adopted.
There is no inherent reason why such a record should
not be suitably preserved.. It is unnecessary to review
the numerous authorities which the industry of counsel
has collated, for it may be assumed that an assessment
should be recorded. It is obvious, however, that the
State cannot be denied the right to collect its taxes, and
the assessment cannot be held to have been in violation
of the Constitution of the United States because for convenience it was recorded-in thefo'rm provided for the
purpose-upon the jacket inclosing the report of the railroad company, instead of in a separate book. If the Board
did not proceed properly to make the assessment according tO the statute, the corporatiQn aggrieved had its remedy; if the assessment was otherwise properly made it
cannot be defeated because the determination was set
forth in the manner described.
The fact that the assessment was entered under the
heading "Chesapeake, Ohio & Southwestern R. R. Co.,
Louisville, Ky.," does not invalidate it. The franchise
which was the subject of the assessment had belonged
to the Chesapeake, Ohio and Southwestern Railroad Company and the entry suitably identified it. The report
which was made by the .Illinois Central Company used
the same description. The information given by this
report, prefacing the amount of apital, value of assets,
earnings, etc., is as follows:
"Name of corporation-Chesapeake, Ohio & Southwestern Railroad. company.
"Name the principal place of business of the corporation, company or association you represent-Louisville,
Kentucky.
"Give the name and official position of the officer' making the report.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

"Name, J. C. Welling. Position, Vice President, I. C.
R. R. Co.-Agt.
"The kind of business in which the said corporation,
company or association is engaged.
"Operating Railroad from Louisville, Ky. to Memphis,.
Tennessee."
The conclusion that the assessment entered in this
manner was made in accordance with the law of the State
of Kentucky was necessarily involved in the decision of
the Court of Appeals. And the fact that, upon the' report
made by the plaintiff in error in the circumstances stated,
the assessment was entered under the name of the company which had formerly owned the franchise furnishes
no ground for the contention here that there has been an
absence of due process of law. Castillo v. McConnico, 168
U. S. 674, 682-684; Witherspoon v. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210.
But it is said that the assessment was only tentative
and that the entry -was merely a memorandum. It does
not appear to be tentative upon its face. That it was
such in fact is a conclusion sought to be derived from the
testimony of the former state auditor. His testimony
was to the effect that he "did not expect any tax to be
paid" on the assessment; that the franchise assessments,
which were made in 1898, were opposed, that there was
considerable discussion of the matter with the railroads,
and that finally in 1899 an agreement was reached by
which the assessments of 1898 were abandoned. He says.
that "in the matter of the Illinois Central Railroad Company, we agreed not to assess the C. & 0. S.. W. for the
first two years, we agreed that,-in other words, that the
amount we assessed against the Illinois Central should be
in full for all the properties they controlled for four years,
this assessment, and the one sent out as final in 1898 we
reconsidered and declined to assess any franchise tax
against that road for one or two years, for the first-years,
-two years, I think. In other words, the agreement of

ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. KENTUCKY. 561
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Board was to reconsider. these assessments entirely,
and take them back, in consideration of the fact that the
road would pay the next two assessments on the basis
agreed upon." The question is at once presented whether
after making the assessment in 1898 the Board had any
authority to deal with it in this manner or to enter into
such a bargain with the railroad. This is a matter of state
law and the Court of Appeals of Kentucky has held that
the Board had no such power and that the first assessment stood. In its opinion the court said:
"The board made the assessment in the way that all
other assessments were made. It gave notice of the assessment to the railroad company as required by statute
and at the end of thirty days it gave notice, as provided
by the statute, that the -assessment had become final.
When this had been done, the matter passed beyond the
control of the board. A final assessment had been had
as provided by law,-and if any injustice was done the taxpayer it was due entirely to his failure to appear before
the board and ask a reduction of the assessment. No
reliance could be placed in such proceedings if the validity
of the record was made to depend upon the secret intentions of the assessing officer. - The validity of their actions
depends upon what they do and not upon their undisclosed purposes. When the assessment had become final
and the Railroad Company owed the State the amount of
taxes thus fixed, the assessing officers were without authority afterward to make any agreement with the railroad
to the effect that if the railroad would pay the taxes for.
1899, they would forego collecting the taxes for the previous years."
And on the petition for rehearing the court added this
statement:
"When the board made an assessment and sent out the
preliminary and the final notices as provided by the statute that the assessment had been made its action was final
VOL. CCXVIII-36

562 "

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218'U. S.

and the legal effect of its action must depend on what
they did and not on the secret intentions of the Auditor."
This construction of the' powers of the state officers
under the statutes of the State relating to franchise assessments-this determination with regard to the finality of.
the assessment in question-does not violate any constitutional right of the plaintiff in error. The assessment
was made in accordance with the law of the State; it was,
under that law, a final assessment and no ground is shown
here for impugning it.
It is insisted further that the enforcement of the tax by
a judgment in personam against the plaintiff in error constitutes an unconstitutional deprivation of property, that
is, assuming that under the statutes of the State, as construed by its highest court, the plaintiff in error was liable
for the tax, nevertheless it could not properly be held because it was not the owner of the franchise upon which
the tax was laid. But by virtue of the arrangement with,
the purchaser at the judicial sale the plaintiff in'error was
operating the railroad and was, in possession and full control of the railroad property and its earnings. It cannot
be doubted that under the Federal Constitution the State
is not precluded from fixing liability for the payment of
the tax, to which the franchise is sibj ect, upon the corporation actually exercising the franchise within the State
and in control of the railroad property and its earnings.
There is no constitutional obligation requiring it to look
further in order to secure payment of the tax which it is
entitled to levy. Carstairsv. Cochran, 193 U. S. 10, 16;
National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353.
It is also contended that plaintiff in error has been
denied the equal protection of the laws upon the ground
that other railroad corporations have not been assessed
upon the same basis or by the same method, or have not
been held to the payment of taxes upon such an assessment. This defense was not pleaded in the answer of the

GRIFFITH v. CONNECTICUT.
. Syllabus.

218 U.S.

Illinois Central company, and, in any event, the meager
testimony introduced at the hearing is utterly insufficient
to afford a basis for the argument. It does not satisfactorily appear that other railroad corporations were not
assessed in the same way and at the same time, or, assuming that they were so assessed, that they are not liable to
pay taxes accordingly. The Court of Appeals of the
Commonwealth in denying the petition for a rehearing
said: "As shown by the opinions of this court cited in the
opinion herein, taxes have been imposed based on the
assessments in controversy. All other tax-payers than
railroads were taxed and if some railroads escaped, it is no
reason that others should go free while all tax-payers of
other classes paid their taxes. If any railroads escaped
they are still liable for their taxes unless barred by limitation."
No conclusion to the contrary is justified by the record
and the contention that the plaintiff in error has been
denied the equal protection of the laws, as the case lies
before us, is without merit.
Judgment affirmed.

GRIFFITH v. STATE OF CONNECTICUT.
ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

ERRORS

OF

THE

STATE OF CONNECTICUT.

No. 514. Motion to dismiss or affirm.

Submitted November 28, 1910.-

Decided December 12, 1910.

Fixing maximum rates of interest on money loaned within the State
by persons pubject to its jurisdiction is clearly within the police
power of.the'State, and the details are within legislative discretion
if not unreasonably and 'arbitrarily exercised.
Classification, on a reasonable basis of subjects, within the police power,

