CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.

SISTARE v. SISTARE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ERRORS OF THE STATE
OF CONNECTICUT.

No. 7.

Agued November 1, 1909.-Decided May 31, 1910.

Past due installments of a judgment for future alimony rendered in
one State are within the protection of the full faith and credit clause
of the Federal Constitution unless the right to receive the alimony
is so. discretionary with the court rendering the decree that, even
in the absence of application to modify the decree, no vested right
exists.
Unless a decision of this court in terms overrules a former decision, it
will, if possible, be so con.1trued as to harmonize with, and not overrule such prior decision; and so held that Barber v. Barber, 21 How.
582, establishing the general rule that a judgment for alimony as
to past installments was within the full faith and credit clause was
not overruled by Lynde v. Lynde, 181 U. S. 187, but the latter case
established the exception as to such judgments where the alimony
is so discretionary with the court that a vested right to receive the
pame does not exist.
The settled doctrine in New York in. 1899 was that no power existed
to modify'a judgment for alimony absolute in terms unless conferred
by otatute, and a judgment for future alimony entered in 1899 under
§§ 1762-1773, Code of Civil Procedure, is Absolute until modlified by
the court, rendering it; 4uch a judgment, therefore, aS to'past due
(.l)
Vol'. c'xwn-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

218 U. S.

installments, falls under the general rule that it is entitled to full faith
and credit in the courts of another State. Barber v. Barber, 21 [low.
582, followed; Lynde v. Lynde, 181 U. S. 187, distinguished.

Although the full faith and edit clause may not extend to mere modes
of procedure, a judgment absolute in terms and enforcible in the State
where rendered must, under the full faith and credit clause of the
Federal Constitution, be enforced by the courts of "other State,
even though the modes of procedure to enforce its collection-may not
be the same in both States.
80 Connecticut, 1, reversed.
THE facts which involve the extent to which, under
the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution of the
United States, effect must be given, in the courts of anothei - te, to a judgment for alimony, on which arrears
are due, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Robert Goeller and Mr. Benjamin Slade, for plaintiff

in error:
The judgment rendered by the New York court related
to a court proceeding, and from the t.anguage employed
in the decree it is clear that the plaintiff is forever separated from the defendant, and that the defendant's obligation to contribute to the support of the plaintiff and the
maintenance and education of the plaintiff's and defendant's child to the extent indicated by the decree commenced with the date of the entry of the final decree of
separation.
The decree finds its support under §§ 1769-1771 of the
New York Code of Civil Procedure. Barber v. Barber, 21
How. 582, is decisive of this case upon that proposition.
It held that a judgment of alimony becomes a judicial
debt of record against the husband, which may be enforced by execution or attachment against his person,
issuing from the court which gave the decree. Alimony
decreed -to a wife in a divorce of separation from bed
aid board, is as much a debt of record, until the decree
has been recalled, as any other judgment for money is.

SISTAIuE v. SISTARE.
218 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Howard v. Howard, 15 Massachusetts, 196; Clark v.
Clark, 6 Watts & Serg. 85; Wheeler v. Wheeler, 2 Dana,
310; Knapp v. Knapp, 59 Fed. Rep. 641; Trowbridge v.
Spinning, 54 L. R. A. 204; Arrington v. Arrington, 127
N. Car. 190.
The court below based its conclusions on Lynde v.
Lynde, 181 U. S. 187, and undertakes to distinguish that
case from Barber v. Barber, supra, but the opinion in
Lynde v. Lynde, 162 N. Y. 412, shows that the want of
jurisdiction was considered a vital point on the question of
sustaining the validity of the decree affecting future
payments.
The distinction that exists between the Lynde case and
the Barber case is that in the former case so much of the
decree providing for the future payment of alimony was
invalid as against the defendant for want of jurisdiction;
but in the Barber case the decree having been rendered
with jurisdiction over the defendant, such decree was
sustained in its entirety.
If that distinction is well founded, both opinions are in
accord; if no such distinction exists, the decision in the
Lynde case seems inconsistent with the doctrine laid down
in the Barber case.
The learned court of Connecticut erred in its construction of § 1771, N. Y. Code of Civ. Pro., in holding
that under that section the trial court has power to annul,
vary or modify its decree affecting the question of alimony.
Unless new facts occur, there can be no alteration of
such decree even affecting the care, custody and maintenanoe of children. The court's power to modify a
decree in respect to alimony does not destroy its finality.
Dow v. Blake, 148 Illinois, 76.
Any modification made by the court that rendered the
decree before the present suit was instituted could be
pleaded by way of defense, but in the absence of a modification, the courts of other States should be required to

O("T()IH,]I' 'I"EILH, I!lo!L
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

215 U. S.

give to that decree the'same binding force and effect that
it has in the State where rendered. Barber v. Barber,

supra; Kunze v. Kunze, 94 Wisconsin, 54; 7'rowbridge v.
Spinning, 54 L. 11. A. 204; )obson. v. Pierce, 12 N. Y.
156; Fletcher v. Farrel, 9 Dana, 372; Cheemr v. Wilson, 9
Wall. 108; Shield v. Thom as, 1.I8 How. 353; Younge v.
Carter, 10 Hun, 194; Harris \-. Balk, 198 U. S. 214.
Under the construction given by the court below to
these statutes, no distinction can be made between the
sum decreed as payable at once, and any sum decreed
payable in the future. The statutes in question contain
no language differentiating I)etween the sums adjudged
at the rendition of the decree and the sunis adjudged to
become payable in the future. Yet a part of the decree
in the Lyndc v. Lynde case was enforced. The decree in
question, until reversed, annulled or modified, is a valid,
subsisting obligation on the part of the defendant and is
definite in its character. Knapp v. Knapp, 5) Fed. Rep.
641. See also McCracken v. Swartz, 5 Oregon, 63; Dubois
v. Dubois, 6 Cowen, 494; Allen v. Allen, 100 Massachusetts,
374; Horsford v. Van Ankes, 79 Indiana, 302; Brislowc v.
Dobson, 50 Mo. App. 176.
An action of debt will lie on a judgment as soon as it is
recovered. In the majority of the States of this Union
the owner of a judgment may bring suit thereon in the
same court that rendered it or in any other court of
competent jurisdiction, and prosecute it to final judgment,
notwithstanding the collection of the original judgment
may still have been enforced by execution in the State of
its rendition. Freeman on Judgments,. § 432; Mills v.
Duryea, 7 Cr. 481; Blake v. People, 80 Illinois, 14; Coughlin
v. Ehlert, 39*Missouri, 287; Bullock-v. Bullock, 57 N. J. L.
508; Bennett v. Bennett, 3 Fed. Cas. 1318.
The defendant in error is precluded from attacking the
dignity and effect of the judgment in question until it ha
been actually reversed or set aside.

81S'1ARE v{i'.SI STAR E.
21S U. S.

Argument tor PIinlif' in I'rror..

The court below erred in holding that the courts of
Connecticut by rendering a money judgment in the case
at bar would be giving greater effect to the decree in
question than such decree has in the State of New York.
.\ decree of divorce, valid and effectual by the law of the
State in which it is obtained, is valid and effectual in all
other States. (heemr v. Wilson, 9 Wall. 108.
In all cases a judgment of.one State does not, carry the
efficacy of a judgment in another State capable of enforcement by execution until such judgment is reduced to a
new judgment in the place where it is sought to enforce it.
After obtaining a judgment in the place of enforcement it
can only be executed in the latter State as its laws may
permit. Buchanan County Bank v. Hull County, 74 Fed.
Rep. 373; Lamberton v. Grant, 94 Maine, 508; Carter v.
Bennett, 6 Florida, 214; .Thompson v. Wattman, 18 Wall.
457, 463; Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co.,'127 U. S. 265, 292;
Banlock v. Banlock, 51 N. J. Eq. 444.
A judgment recovered in one State is not executory in
any other State in the sense that final process for its
enforcement can issue on merely filing or docketing the
judgment, as in the case of a domestic judgment. Carter
v. Bennett, 6 Florida, 214; Leathe v. Thomas, 109 Ill. App.
434; Dunham v. Dunham, 57 Ill. App. 475; Joice v. Scales,
18 Georgia, 725.
The constitutional provision for giving "full faith and
credit" to such judgments relates only to their effect as
evidence or a bar to further litigation. Claflin v. McDermot, 12 Fed. Rep. 375; Chicago &c. R. Co. v. Wiggins
Ferry Co., 108 U. S.18.
In an action on a foreign judgment awarding alimony
to the plaintiff, no other relief can be had than a recovery
for past due alimony. Wood v. Wood, 28 N. Y. Supp. 154.
A bill in equity by a woman against her former husband
to enforce a provision of a foreign decree of divorce awarding her a definite and ascertained sum as alimony, is de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

218 U. S.

murrable on the ground that she has an adequate remedy
at law by an action of debt on the decree. Davis v. Davis,
39 L. R. A. 403.
The only remedy the plaintiff seeks is to obtain the
money claimed to be due under the decree. The plaintiff under the decree in question acquired a vested property right of which she could not be deprived without due
process of law.
The allowance in the decree of alimony created a
judicial debt of record and formed a proper 1oundation
-for the recovery of said debt in the present action. Wetmore v. Welmore, 149 N. Y. 520; France v. France, 79
App. Div. (N. Y.) 291; Barber v. Barber, supra.
The decree in question ought to be enforced as any other
judgment out of any property of the husband wherever
found. Broslough v. Broslough, 68 Pa. St. 495; Brislowe v.
Dobson, supra, Barber v. Barber, supra.
Mr. William J. Brennan for defendant in error:
The statutes of New York show that the order requiring
the payment of $22.50 per week was temporary in its
nature and enforceable only in the manner provided in
such statutes. See §§ 1766-1773, N. Y. Code of Civ. Pro.
It is apparent from these statutes that the judgment in
question here was rendered in a proceeding entirely foreign
to the statutes or practice of Connecticut. The order with
respect to the weekly payments was subject to modifica'tion or annulment by the court which granted it at any
time, and was enforceable in the peculiar method prescribed by the statute.
The New York courts hold that an order of this character is subject to modification at any time by the court
which granted it independent of statute, and is enforceable
only in the method provided by the statute. TonJes v.
Tonjes, 14 Hun (N. Y.), 542. The order in question is
not only subject to modification at any time, but, under

81STARE v. SISTARE.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the New York decisions, can only be enforced by the
sequestration and contempt proceedings provided in the
statutes. Weber v. Weber, 93 Hun (N. Y.), 149; Branth
v. Branth, 20 Civ. Pro. (N. Y.) 33.
The judgment sought to be enforced in this action is an
order which is subject to modification at any time by the
court which granted it, and it can be enforced in New
York only in the method provided by the statutes of that
State.
The courts of one State will not enforce the judgments
of the courts of another State wl'ich are subject to modification and are not final judgments for fixed sums of
money. Lynde v. Lynde, 162 N. Y. 405; S. C., 181 U. S.
183. In the Lynde case the Court of Appeals distinguished
Barber v. Barber, 21 How. (U. S.) 582; and see also Audubon v. Shufeldt, 181 U. S. 577; Wetmore v. Wetmore, 196
U. S. 68. As to Arrington v. Arrington, 127 N. Car. 190,
see 131 N. Car. 143, where the court admitted that its
earlier decision was wrong.
The courts of one State will not enforce the judgments
of courts of another State which are subject to modification. The more clearly will they not enforce such orders
by judgment and execution where the courts of the State
where the judgment was obtained, decline to enforce them
in any such way.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

In 1899, by a judgment of the Supreme Court of the
State of New York the plaintiff in error was granted a
separation from bed and board from her husband, the
defendant in error, and he was ordered to pay her weekly
the sum of $22.50 for the support of herself and the maintenance and education of a minor child. The judgment,
omitting title, is copied in the margin.'
'This action having been begun by the service of the summons herein

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion'of the Court.

218 U. S

In July, 1904, at which time none of the installments
of alimony had been paid, the wife commenced this action
in the Superior Court of New London County, Connecticut, to recover the amount then in arrears of the decreed
alimony. The cause was put at issue and Was heard by
the court. As stated by the trial judge, in a "Finding"
by him made: "The defendant made the following claims
of law as to the judgment to be rendered in this action:
on the defendant personally,

.

.

.

now on motion of

at-

torneys for the plaintiff, it is
Ordered, adjudged and decreed that the plaintiff be, and she hereby
is, forever separated from the. defendant, and from the bed and board
of said defendant, on the ground of non-support and cruel and inhuman
treatment by the defendant. And it is
Further ordered, adjudged and decreed that from and after the entry
of this decree the defendant Horace Randall Sistare pay to the plaintiff
Matilda Von Ellert Sistare, for her maintenance and support and the
maintenance and education of Horace Von Ellert Sistare, the minor
child of the plaintiff and defendant, the sum of twenty-two and 50-100.
dollars ($22.50) per week, such sum to be paid into the hands of her
attorneys of record in this action on each and every Monday. And it
is further
Ordered, adjudged and decreed that the sole care, custody, control
and education of said minor child Horace Von Ellert Sistare is hereby
awarded to the plaintiff, and the defendant, upon complying fully
with each and all of the directions of the decree herein, and not otherwise, and during his good behavior, shall, until the further order of
this court, be permitted to see said child for the space of two hours,
between the hours of ten and twelve o'clock in the forenoon on Wednesdays and Saturdays, excepting Wednesdays and Saturdays during the
months of July, August and September of each year. *Andit is further
Ordered, adjudged and decreed that costs are hereby awarded to the
plaintiff against the defendant, taxed at ,the sum of one hundred and
seventeen and 67-100 dollars ($117.67), and that the plaintiff do recover said costs from the defendant and have execution therefor. And
it is further
Ordered, adjudged and decreI that the plaintiff have leave to
apply fron time to time for such orders qt the foot of this judgment as
may be necessary for its enforcement and for the protection and ellforcement of her rights in the premises.

SISTARE v. SISTARE.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"(a) That the judgment rendered by the Supreme Court
of the State of New York in requiring the future payment
of $22.50 per week did not constitute a final judgment for
a fixed sum of money which is enforcible and collectible in
this action.
"(b) That said judgment being subject to modification
by the court which granted it, is not a judgment which
the courts of this State will enforce.
"(c) That the requirement that said sums of money
should be paid as aforesaid does not constitute a debt or
obligation from the defendant to the plaintiff which can
be enforced in this action.
"(d) That said judgment requiring the said weekly payments cannot be enforced in any other way than according
to the procedure prescribed in the statutes of the. State of
New York, and cannot be enforced in this action.
"(e) That the judgment which is sought to be enforced
in this action is not a final judgment entitled to full faith
and, credit in this State by virtue of the provisions of- the
Constitution! of the United States.
"(f) That the judgment which is sought to be enforced
in this action will not be enforced by the courts of this
State through comity.
"(g) That the facts will not support a judgment for the
plaintiff."
The court, however, adjudged in favor of the plaintiff
and awarded her the sum of $5,805, the arrears of alimony
at the commencement of the action.
On appeal, the Supreme Court of Errors (80 Connecticut, 1) reversed the judgment and remanded the cause
''for the rendition of judgment in favor of the defendant;
and such a judgment, the record discloses, Was ubsequently entered by-the trial court. This writ of error
was prosecuted.
The Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut reached
the conclusion that the power conferred upon a New York

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

court to modify a decree for alimony by it rendered extended to overdue and unsatisfied installments as well as
to those to accrue in the future, that hence decrees for
future alimony, even as to installments after they had become past due, did not constitute debts of record, and
were not subject to be collected by execution, but could
only be enforced by the special remedies provided, in the
law, and were not susceptible of being made the basis of
judgments in the State of New York in another court than
the one in which the decree for alimony had been made.
Guided by the interpretation thus given to the New York
law and the character of the decree for future alimony
which was based thereon, it was decided that the New
York judgment for alimony which was sought to be enforced, even although the installments sued for were all
past due, was not a final judgment which it was the duty
of the courts of Connecticut to enforce in and by virtue
of the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution of
the United States. While the ruling of the court was, of
course, primarily based upon the interpretation of the
New York law, the ultimate ruling *as to the inapplicability of the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution
was expressly rested upon the decision of this court in
Lynde v. Lynde, 181 U. S. 187.
To sustain her contention that the action of the court
below was in conflict with the duty imposed upon it by
the full faith and credit clause, the plaintiff in error, by
her assignments, in effect challenges the correctness of all
the propositions upon which the court below rested its
action, and virtually the defendant in error takes issue in
argument as to these contentions. In disposing of the
controversy, however, we shall not follow the sequence of
the various assignments of error or consider all the forms
of statement in which the contentions of the parties are
pressed in argument, but come at once to two fundamental
questions which, being determined, will dispose of all the

SISTARE v. SISTARE.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

issues in the case. Those inquiries are: 1st. Where a
court of one State has decreed the future payment of alimony, and when an installment or installments of the
alimony so decreed have become due and payable and are
unpaid, is such a judgment as to accrued and past due
alimony ordinarily embraced within the scope of the full
faith and credit clause of the Constitution of the United
States so as to impose the constitutional duty upon the
court of another State-to give effect to such judgment?
2d. If, as a general rule, the full faith and credit clause
does apply to such judgments, is the particular judgment
under review exceptionally taken out of that rule by virtue
of the nature and character of the judgment as determined
by the law of the State of New York, in and by virtue of
which it was rendered? We shall separately consider the
questions.
First. The application as a general rule of the full faith
and credit clause to judgments for alimony as to past due installments.
An extended analysis of the principles involved in the
solution of this proposition is not called for, since substantially the, contentions of the parties are based upon
their divergent conceptions of two prior decisions of this
court, (Barber v. Barber, 21 How. 582, and Lynde v. Lynde,
181 U. S. 183, 187), and an analysis of those cases will
therefore suffice. For the plaintiff in error it is insisted
that the case of Barber v. Barber conclusively determines
that past due installments of a judgment for future alimony rendered in one State are within the protection of
the full faith and credit clause, while the defendant in
error urges that the contrary is established by the ruling
in Lynde v. Lynde, and that if the Barber case has the
meaning attributed to it by the plaintiff in error, that case
must be considered as having been overruled by Lynde
v. Lynde.
Substanitially the contrversy in Barber v. Barber was

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

this: In the year 1847 the Court of Chancery of New York
granted Huldah B. Barber a separation from Hiram'Barber and directed the payment of alimony in quarterly installnents. Altlough the separation was decreed to be
forever, the power to modify was reserved by a provision
that the'parties might at any time thereafter, by their
Joint petition, apply to the court to have the decree modified or discharged. It was provided that unpaid installments of alimony should bear interest, "and that execution might issue therefor toties quoties." The husband
failed to pay any of the alimony, and remove(d to Wisconsin, where he procured an absolute divorce. Subsequently
an action was brought by Mrs. Barber upon the common
law side of the District Court of the United States in the
Territory of Wisconsin to recover the arrears of alimony,
bift relief was denied "for the reason that the remedy for
the recovery of alimony was in a court of chancery, and
not at law." A suit in equity to recover the overdue
alimony was then commenced by Mrs. Barber, Wisconsin
having been admitted into the Union, in the District
(Court of the United States for the District of Wisconsin.
Among other things it was urged in a demurrer by the
respondent, as a reason why the relief should be denied,
"that the relief sought could only be had in the court of
chancery for the State of New York, and that it did not
appear that the complainants had exhausted the remedy
which they had in New York." The proceedings culminated in a decree in favor of the complainant for the
amount of alimony in arrears at the commencement of the
suit, and the case was then brought to this court and the
questioisarising were disposed of in a careful and elaborate
ol)inion. The decree was affirmed. In the course of the
opinion it was declared, among other things, that courts
ot' equity possessed jurisdiction to interfere to prevent the
h,'ee of the court of another State from being defeated
b.% fraud, and refereice was made to English decisions

SISTAREE v. SISTARE.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

asserting the power of chancery to compel the payment
of overdue alimony. Considering the nature and character of a decree of separation and for alimony and the
operation and effect upon such a decree as to past due
installments of the full faith and credit clause, it was said
(p. 591):
"The parties to a cause for a divorce and for alimony
are as much bound by a decree for both, which has been
given by one of our state courts having jurisdiction of
the subject-matter and over the parties, as the same
parties would be if the decree had been given in the
ecclesiastical court of England. The decree in both 's a
judgment of record, and will be received as such by other
courts. And such a judgment or decree, rendered in any
State of the United States, the court having jurisdiction,
will be carried into judgment in any other State, to have
there the same binding force that it has in the State in
-which it was originally given."
And, again, determining the effect of a decree for future
alimony, the court expressly declared (p. 9): "Alimony
decreed to a wife in a divorce of separation from bed and
board is as much a debt of record, until the decree has
been recalled, as any other judgment for money is." And
it is, we think, clear from the context of the opinion that
the courtheld that the decree in favor of Mrs. Barber
operated to cause an indebtedness to arise in her favor as
each installment of alimony fell due and that a power to
modify, if exerted, could only operate prospectively.
The facts in Lynde v. Lynde which are pertinent to this.
controversy are these: A dEcree of the Court of Chancery
of New Jersey in favor of Mrs. Lynde was rendered in
1897 for the sum of $7,840 ; s alimony due at the date of
the decree, with $1,000 for counsel fees, and payment was
directed to be made of $80 weekly from the date of the
decree. An action on this New Jersey decree was brought
in May, 1898, in the Supreme Court of .New York, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

recovery was allowed by the trial court for the alimony
due at the date of the New Jersey decree, with interest,
counsel fee and costs, and for an additional amount representing future alimony, which had accrued from the date
of the decree to the commencement of the action in New
York. The judgment also directed the payment of future
alimony as fixed by the.New Jersey decree, and awarded
certain remedies for the enforcement of the decree in
accordance with the relief which had been awarded in the
New Jersey decree in conformity to the law of that State.
The judgment thus rendered by the trial court in New
York was ultimately modified by the Court of Appeals of,
New York by allowing the recovery only of the alimony
which had been fixed in the New Jersey decree as due at
its date with interest and the counsel fee, and disallowing
recovery of the installments of future alimony which had
accrued when the action was commenced in New York,
as well as the allowance in respect to alimony thereafter
to accrue. In thi§ court three questions were presented:
1. Whether the decree of the New Jersey court was wanting in due process because of the absence of notice to the
defendant; 2, whether the'duty to enforce the decree for.
alimony was imposed upon the courts of New York .by
the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution; and,
3, upon the hypothesis that the full faith and credit clause
was applicable, whether that clause required that the
remedies afforded by the laws of New Jersey should be
made available in the State of New York. Deciding that
.the New Jersey decree was not wanting in due process,
the court came to consider the second and third questions,
and held that in so far as the New Jersey decree related
to alirpony accrued at the time it was rendered and fixed.
by the decree and the counsel fee, it was entitled to be
enforced in the courts of New'York, but that in so far as
it related to future alimony its enforcement was not commanded by the full faith and credit clause. No reference

SISTARE v. SISTARE.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was made to the case of Barber v. Barber, the opinion
briefly disposing of the issue as follows (p. 187): "The
decree for the payment of $8,840 was for a fixed sum
already due, and the judgment of the court below was
properly restricted to that. The provision of the payment
for alimony in the future was subject to the discretion of
the Court of Chancery of New Jersey, which might at
any time alter it, and was not a final judgment for a fixed
sum." These sentences were followed by a brief adverse
disposition of the claim that there was a right to avail for
the enforcement of the New Jersey decree in the courts of
New York of the remedies peculiar to the New Jersey
law.
When these two cases are considered together we think
there is no inevitable and necessary conflict between them,
and in any event if there be that Lynde v. Lynde must be
restricted or qualified so as to cause it not to overpule the
decision in the Barber case. In the first place, in the
Lynde case no reference whatever was made to the prior
decision, and it cannot be said that such decision was
overlooked, because it was referred to in the opinion of
the court below and was expressly cited and commented
upon in the briefs of counsel submitted in the Lynde case.
In the second place, in view of the elaborate and careful
nature of the opinion in Barber v. Barber, of the long
period of time which had intervened between that decision
and the decision in Lynde v. Lynde, and the fact which
is made manifest by decisions of the courts of last resort
of the several States that the rule laid down in the Barber
case had been accepted and acted upon by the courts of
the States generally as a final and decisive exposition of
the operation and scope of the full faith and credit clause
as applied to the subject with which the case dealt, it is
not to be conceived that it was intended by the brief
statement'in the opinion in Lynde v. Lynde to announce a
new and radical departure from the settled rule of con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

stittitional constructi6n which had prevailed for so long'
a time. And nothing in the mere language used in the
Lynde case Would justify' such a conclusion, because the
reasoning expressed in that case was based solely and
exclusively on the ground that the portions of the decree
for alimony which were held to be not within the purview
of the full faith and credit clause were not so embraced,
because their enforcement "was subject to the discretion
of the Court of Chancery of New Jersey, which might at
any time alter it, . . ."
In other words, the ruling
was expressly based upon the latitude of discretion which
the courts of New Jersey were assumed to possess over a
decree for the payment of future alimony. But it is said
although this be true the decision in the Lynde case must
be here controlling and treated as overruling the Barber
case, since it will be found, upon examination of the New
Jersey law which governed the New Jersey decree considered in the Lynde case, that such law conferred no
greater discretion upun the New Jersey Court of Chancery
as to the enforcement of past due installments of future
alimony than will be found to be possessed by the New
York courts as to the decree here in question. But this
is aside from the issue for decision, since the question here
is not whether the doctrine expounded in the Lynde case
was there misapplied as a result of a misconception of the
New Jersey law, but what was the doctrine which the
case announced. And, answering that question, not only
by the light of reason, but by the authoritative force of
the ruling in the Barber case, which had prevailed for so
many years, and by the reasoning expressed in the Lynde
case, we think the conclusion is inevitable that the Lynde
case cannot be held to have overruled the Barber case) and
therefore that the two cases must be interpreted in harmony, one with the other, and that on so doing it results:
First, that, generally speaking, where a decree is rendered
for alimony and is made payable in fujure installments

SISTARE- v. SISTARE.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the right to such installments becomes absolute and
vested upon becoming due, and is therefore protected by
the full faith and credit clausAe, provided no modification
of the decree has been made prior to the maturity of the
installments, since, as declared in the Barber .case, "alimony' decreed to a wife in a divorce of separation from
bed and board is as much a debt of record, until the decree
has been recalled, as any other judgment for money is."
Second, That this "general rule, however, does not obtain
where by the law of the State in which a judgment for
future alimony is rendered the right to demand and receive such future alimony is discretionary with the court
which rendered the decree, to such an extent that no
absolute or vested right attaches to receive the installments ordered by the decree to be paid, even although
no application to annul or modify the decree in respect
to alimony had been made prior to the installments
becoming due.
It follows, therefore, from the statement which we have
made of the case that the New York judgment which was
relied upon came within the general rule, and, therefore,
that the action of the Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut in refusing to enforce it was in conflict with the
full faith and credit clause, unless it be as a result of the
law of the State of New York the judgment for future
alimony in that State, even as to past due installments,
was so completely within the discretion of the courts of
that State as to bring it'within the exceptional rule embodied in the second proposition. A consideration of this
subject brings us to an investigation of the second question, which we have previously stated.
Second. The finality of the New York judgment as to
past due installments for future alimony under the law of
the State of New York.
The conception of the statute law of the State of New
York and of the decisions of the courts of .that State interVOL. cc.vii-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

preting that law which led the Supreme Court of Errors
of Connecticut to conclude that the enforcement of the
judgment before it was so completely subject to the discretion of the court which had rendered it as not to entitle
it to enforcement in virtue of the full faith and credit
clause, was thus stated in its opinion:
"The nature, operatioin and effect within -the State of
New Yopk of orders like that .in question directing payments in futuro to a wife by a husband living in judicial
separation, and passed in 1899 pursuant to the ther provisions of statute, have been well settled by the repeated
decisions of tle courts of that jurisdiction. They have
been declared to be tentative provisions which remain at
all times within the control of the court issuing them and
subject to being at any time modified or annulled. Tonjes
v. Tonjes, 14 App. Div. 542. The right of modification'
or annulment which is thus reserved to the court is one
which extends to overdue and unsatisfied payments as well
as to those which may accrue in- the future. Sibley v.
Sibley, 66 App. Div. 552; Goodsell v. Goodsvll, 94 App.
Div. 443; Kiralfy v. Kiralfy, 36 Misc. 407; Wetmore v.
Wetmore, 34 Misc. 640. 'The amount awarded does not
exist as a debt in favor of the wife against the husband in
the sense of indebtedness as generally understoqd.' Tonjes
V. Tonjes,' 14 App. Div. 542. The order is not one 'which
simply directs the payment of a sum of money,' and not
such an one as can have enforcement by execution. Weber
v. Weber, 93 App. Div. 149. The special remedies provided in §§ 1772 and 1773 for the enforcement of the
orders are exclusive. Weber v. Weber, supra; Branth v.
Branth, 20 Civ. Pro. 33. No judgment in another court
can be entered upon them. Branth v. Branth, supra."
But we are unable to issent to the view thus taken of
the statute lawof New York or to concede the correctness
of the effect attributed by the court to. the New York
decisions which were referred to.

SISTARE v. SISTARE.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure of New
York pertinent to be considered in determining the scope
and effect of judgments for separation and alimony rendered by the courts of New York are copied in the margin.1
I Provisions of N.'Y. Code of Civil Procedure in force in 1899:
SEc. 1762. For what causes action may be maintained.-In either
of the cases specified in the next section, an action may be maintained
by a husband or wife -against the other party to the marriage, to
procure a judgment, separating the parties from bed and board forever,
or for a limited time for either of the following causes:
1. The cruel and inhuman treatment of the plaintiff by the defendant.
2. Such conduct on the part of the defendant towards the plaintiff
as may render it unsafe and improper for the former to cohabit with
the latter.
3. The abandonment of the plaintiff by the defendant;
4. Where the wife is plaintiff, the neglect or refusal of the defendant
to provide for her.
SEC. 1763. Id.;, in what cases.-Such an action may be maintained
in either of the following cases:
1. Where both parties are residents of the State when the action is
commenced.
2. Where the parties were married within the State and the plaintiff
is a resident thereof when the action is commenced.
3. Where the parties having been married without the State have
become residents of the State, and have continued to be residents
thereof at least one year, and the plaintiff is such a resident when the
action is commenced.
SEc. 1766. Support, maintenance, etc., of wife and children.Where the action is brought by the wife the court may, in the final
judgment of separation, give such directions as the nature and circumstances of the case require. In particular, it may compel the defendant
to provide suitably for the education and maintenance of the children
of the marriage,and for the support of the plaintiff, as justice requires,
having regard to the circumstances of the respective parties, and the
court may, in such. an action, render a judgment compelling the defendant to make the provision specified in this section where, under the
circumstances of the case, such a judgment is proper without rendering
a judgment for separation.
SEc. 1767. Judgment for separation may be revoked.-Upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

In cinsidering the meaning of these provisions it must
be borne in mind that the settled rule in New York is that
the courts of that State have only the jurisdiction over the
subject of divorce, separation and alimony conferred by
statute, and that the authority to modify or amend a
judgment awarding divorce and alimony must be found
in the statute or it does not exist. Erkenbrach v. Erkenbrach, 96 N. Y. 456, 463; Livingston v. Livingston, 173
N. Y. 377.
joint application of the partiesaccompanied with satisfactory evidence
of their reconciliation a judgment for a separation forever, or for a limited period, rendered as prescribed in this article, may be revoked at
any time by the court which rendered it, subject to such regulations
and restrictions as the court thinks fit to impose.
SEc. 1769. Alimony, expenses of action, and costs; how awarded.Where an action is brought, as prescribed in either of the last two
articles, the court may, inits discretion, during the pendeney thereof
from time to time make and modify an order or orders requiring the
husband to pay any sum or sums of money necessary to enable the Wvife
to carry on or to defend the action, or to provide. suitably for the
education and maintenance of the childreh of the marriage, or for the
support of the wife, having regard to the circumstances of the respective
parties. The final judgment in such an action may award costs in favor
of or against either party, and an execution may be issued for the
collection thereof, as in an ordinary case; or.the court may, in the
judgment, or by an order made at any time diiect the costs to be
paid, 3ut of any property sequestered or otherwise- in the power of the
coi.t.
&Ec. 1771. Custody and maintenance of children and support of
plaintiff.-Where an action is brought by either husband or wife, asprescribed in either of the last two articles, the court rhust, except as
otherwise expressly prescribed in those articles, give, either in the final
judgment or by one or more ordets made from time to time before
finil judgment, such directions as justice requires between the parties
for the custody, care, education and maintenance of any of the children
of the marriage, and, where the action is brought by the wife, for the
support of the plaintiff. The court may, by order upon'The application
o, either party to the action, after due notice to the other, to be given
in such manner as. the court shall prescribe, at any time after final
judgment, annul, vary or modify such directions. But no such appli-

SISTARE v. SISTARE.
218 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Other than the provision in § 1767, authorizing the revocation of a judgment for separation upon the joint application of the parties, the power of the court to vary
or modify a judgment for alimony if it existed in 1899
was to be found in § 1771. It is certain that authority is
cation shall be made by a defendant unless leave to make the same shall
have been previously granted by the court by order made upon or
without notice, as the court in its discretion may deem proper after
presentation to the court of satisfactory proof that justice requires
that such.an application should be entertained.
SEc. 1772. Support, maintenance, etc., of wife and children. Sequestration.-Where a judgment rendered, or an order made, as prescribed in this article, or in either of the last two articles, requires a
husband to provide for the education or maintenance of any of the
children of a marriage, or for the support of his wife, the court may,
in its discretion, also direct him to give reasonable security, in such a
manner and within such a time as it thinks proper, for the payment
from time to time of the sums of money required for that purpose. If
he fails to give the security, or to make any payment required by the
terms of such a judgment or order, whether he has or has not given
security therefor, 'or to pay any sum of money which he is required to
pay by an order, made as prescribed in § 1769 of this act, the court may
cause his personal property, and the rents and profits of his real property, to be sequestered, and may appoint a receiver thereof. The
rents and profits, and other property, so sequestered, may be, from
time to time, applied, under the direction of the court, to the payment
of any of the sums of money specified in this section, as justice requires.
SF,. 1773. Id.; when enforced by punishment for contempt.-Where
the husband makes default in paying any sum of money specified in the
last section, as required by the judgment or order directing the payment thereof, and it appears presumptively, to the satisfaction of the
court, that payment cannot be enforced by means of the proceedings prescribed in the last section, or by resorting to the security, if
any, given as therein prescribed, the court may, in its decretion, make
an order requiring the husband to show cause before it, at a time and
place therein specified, why he should not be punished for his failure
to make the payment; and .thereupon proceedings must be taken to
punish him, as prescribed in title third of chapter seventeenth of this
act. Such an order to show cause may also be made, without any
previous sequestration, or direction to give scurity,.where the court
is satisfied that they'would be- ineffecttil.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

there given to the courts of New York to modify or vary
a decree for alimony-by the following:
"The court may, by order upon the application of either
party to the action, after due notice to the other, to be
given in such manner as the court shall prescribe, at any
time after final judgment, vary or modify such directions.
But no such application shall be made by a defendant
unless leave to make the same shall have been previously
granted by the court by order made upon or without
notice, as the court in its discretion may deem proper after
presentation to the court of satisfactory proof that justice requires such an application should be entertained."
But it is equally certain that nothing in this language
expressly gives power to revoke or modify an installment
of alimony which had accrued prior to the making of an
application to vary or modify, and every reasonable implication must be resorted to against the existence of such
power in the absence of clear language manifesting an
intention to confer it. The implication, however, which
arises from the failure to expressly confer authority to
retroactively modify ar! allowance of alimony is fortified
by the provisions which are expressed. Thus the methods
of enforcing payment of the future alimony awarded provided by the statute, all contemplate the collection and
paying over as a matter of right of the installments as
they accrue as long as the judgment remains unmodified,
or at least until application has been made or permission
to make one in pursuance to the statute has been accorded.
And the force of this suggestion is accentuated when it is
considered that it was not unusual in New York to resort to executions as upon a judgment at law to enforce
the collection of unpaid installments-of alimony. Wetmore v. Wetmore, 149 N. Y. 520, 527. Indeed, as in
principle, if it be that the power to vary or modify operates retroactively and may affect past due installments
so as to relieve of the obligation to pay. such installments,

SISTARE v. SISTARE.
218 U. S.

Opinion otthe Court.

it would follow in ther nature of things that the power
would exist to increase the amount allowed, it is additionally impossible to. imply such authority in the absence
of provisions plainly compelling to such conclusion. Be,yond all this, when it is considered that no provision is
found looking to the repayment by the wife of any installments which had been collected from the husband, in the
event of a retroactive reduction of the allowance, it would
,,seem that no power to retroactively modify was intended.
A brief consideration of the state of the law of New
York concerning the power to modify allowances for alimony priorto the enactment of the provisions as to modification in question and the rulings of the court of last
resort of New York on the subject, of such power we think
will serve to further establish the impossibility, in reason,
of supposing that the statutory provisions in uestion conferred the broad and absolute power of retroaction as to
past due installments of alimony which the court below
* assumed to exist. Prior to 1994 the courts of New York
did not possess the power to modify a judgment in the
case either of an absolute divorce or of a judicial separa-'
tion, except in respect to the custody, etc., of the children
of the marriage. Erleubrach v. Erkc)ibrach, 96 N. Y.
456. In the year 1894 the statute *as amended to permit the court to vary or modify the provision for the
support of the wife upon her application alone, on notice
to the husband. ('hap. 728, J.,aws of 1894. Subsequently, § 1771, which, by the amendment of 1804, conferred power upon the application of the wife to vary or
modify the allowance, was enlarged to read as it stood in
1899, when the action was brought in which the judgment
in question was rendered, that is, so as to confer authority
upon the court to vary or modify an allowafce of alimony
on the application of either party. Chap. 8)l, Laws of
1895.
But in view of the; Wellsetilld(hwd trine prevwiling in

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

New York, that no power exists to modify a judgment
for alimony absolute in terms, unless conferred by statute, and the practice of treating the right to collect accrued installments of alimony as vested and subject to
be enforced by execution, and in view of the further fact
that decrees for alimony in New York, where authority
to modify was not expressly conferred by statute or was
not reserved in the decree at the time of rendition, created
vested rights not subject to either judicial or legislative
control (Livingston v. Livingston, .173 N. Y. 377), we
think it becomes quite clear that the mere enlargement
of the power of the court so as to permit modification of
the allowance for alimony upon the application of the
husband did not confer the authority to change or set
aside the rights- of the wife in respect to installments
which were overdue at the time application was made by
the husband to modify the decree. And although we have
been referred to and can find no decision of the court of
last resort of New York dealing with the subject, the view
we have taken as an original question of the code provision in question accords with that of the First Department of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of
the State of New York, announced in a decision rendered
in 1903. Goodsell v. Goodsell, 82 App. Div. 65. Nor do
we find that the New York decisions relied upon by the
lower court and cited by it to sustain its conclusion that
"the right of modification or annullment which is thus
reserved to the court is one which extends to overdue and
unsatisfied payments as well as to those which may accrue
"in the future," have even a tendency to that effect. The
cases cited and relied on are Sibley v. Sibley, 66 App. Div.
552; Goodsell, v. Goodsell, 94 App. Div. 443; Kiralfy v. Kiralfy, 36 Misc. 407, and Wetmore v. Wetmore, 34 Misc. 640.
The Sibley case was decided in 1901 by the Appellate
Division of the Supreme Court of New York, First Department. The case was not concerned with a decree

SISTARE -v. SISTARE.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the payment of permanent alimony. It related to the
failure, during the pendency of an action for separation,
to comply with an order for the payment of temporary
alimony and counsel fees. Whether such order was made
ex parte or upon notice does not appear. Among other
things the appeal presented the question of the propriety
of the denial of a motion to modify the order directing"
the payment of alimony and counsel fees by reducing the
amount directed to be paid. The order appealed from
was affirmed, without prejudice, however, to the right of
the appellant "to renew his application when he returns
to this State and subjects himself to the jurisdiction of
the court." No intimation is given in the opinion as to
whether the power to reduce the amount of alimony, and
counsel fees could be exerted so as to have a retroactive
effect. The decision in the Goodsell case was made in
1904 by the Appellate Division, First Department, and
concerned a denial at special term of a motion to punish
the defendant for contempt in not paying the difference
between certain payments made as alimony by agreement between the parties and the amount ordered to be
paid in the final judgment awarding an absolute divorce.
The Appellate Court declined to consider the question of
whether the defendant was in contempt until a report had
beeii made by the referee who had been appointed to
determine the financial ability of the defendant to pay.
There was no intimation as to the extent of the power to
modify an allowance of alimony. A year prior, however,
in the same litigation (82 App. Div. 65) the same court,
as we have already stated, decided that the provisions of
the New York code giving, power to modify an allowance.,
of alimony could only have a prospective operation. It
was said (p. 70):
"It may, we think, be given full force and effect by
ascribing to the legislature the intention of authorizing the
courts to vary or modify the allowance of alimony from

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

the time of the adjudication that such variation or modification is proper without making the same retroactive."
The Kiralfy case was a decision of the New York special
term rendered in December, 1901. The matter acted
.upon was a motion to amend a final decree of divorce by
reducing the amount of alimony to a sum not merely less
than that awarded by thldecree, but less than the sum
which the defendant had been paying under agreement
with the wife. The motion was granted, but it was clearly
given a prospective operation only. Wetmore v. Wetmore
was also decided in 1901 by the New York special term.
What was held was merely that the court would not relieve the defendant, who had persistently evaded a decree
of absolute divorce, in which there had been awarded
future alimony for the support of the wife and children.
There is no discussion as to the extent of the power to
modify decrees of divorce in respect to alimony, and a
modification of a decree as to the amount of alimony to
be paid which is referred to in, the course of the proceedings plainly had only a prospective operation.
Contenting ourselves in conclusion with saying that, as
pointed out in Lynde v. Lynde, although mere *modes of
execution provided by the laws of a State in which a
judgment is rendered are not, by operation of the full
faith and credit clause, obligatory upon the courts of another State in which the judgment is sought to be enforced, nevertheless if the judgment be an enforcible judgment in the State where rendered the duty to give effect
to it in another State clearly results from the full faith
and credit clause, although the modes of procedure to enforce the collection may not be the same in both States.
It follows that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Errors of Connecticut must be reversed and the case remanded to that court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.

