SHEVLIN-CARPENTER CO. v. MINNESOTA.
218 U. S.

Syllabus.

neath an overhead bridge, was struck by a tie thrown from
the structure.
While, as we have. previously said, it is true there are
state decisions dealing with statutes classifying railroad
employ~s sustaining the restricted power to classify which
is here insisted upon, we do not think it is necessary to
review them or to notice those tending to the contrary.
They are referred-to in the opinions rendered in the court
below. Nor do we think our duty in this respect is enlarged because since the judgment below was rendered
the court of last resort in Indiana (Indianapolis&c. Co. v.
Kinney, 171 Indiana, 612, and Cleveland, C. C. & St. L.
Ry. Co. v. Foland, decided April 20, 1910, and not yet
reported) has, upon the theory that it w. s necessary to
save the statute in question from being declared repugnant to the equality clause of the. state constitution and
the Fourteenth Amendment, unequivocally held that the
Statute must be construed as restricted to employ6s engaged in train service.

Affirmed.

SHEVLIN-CARPENTER COMPANY v. STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 139.

Argued April 6, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.

Where the purpose of a state statute does not depend upon the inseparableness of its punishments the fact that a statute provides
both double damages and fine and imprisonment does not necessarily prevent a construction that the provisions are independent.
There must be a first jeopardy before there can be a second and on the
first the defense~of second jeopardy cannot be raised in anticipation
of deprivation of the constitutional immunity on a subsequent trial.

OCTOBER TERINM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

218 U. S.

Quere, whether a state statute which inflicts two punishments i
separate proceedings for the same act is unconstitutional under the
Fourteenth Amednment.
The mere fact that a state police statute punishes an offense actually
committed without regard to intent does not render the statute unconstitutional under the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The Constitution declares the principle upon which the public welfare
is to be promoted and opposing ones cannot be substituted. Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 558.
A, State does not offend the equality clause of the Fourteenth Amendment by taking as a basis of classification the ways by which a law
may be defeated. St. John v. New York, 201 U. S. 633.
Innocence cannot be asserted as to an action which violates existing
law, and igiorance of law will not excuse.
Courts cannot set aside legislation simply because it is harsh.
The statute of Minnesota punishing the cutting and removal of timber
on state lands and imposing double or triple damages and fine and
imprisonment for violation, whether the offense be wilful or not, is
- not unconstitutional under the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment either as putting one violating it in second jeopardy or
because inflicting the penalties upon him regardless of his intent.
102 Minnesota, 470, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a
statute of Minnesota regulating cutting timber on the

public lands of the State and fixing penalties therefor, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, with whom Mr. N. H. Clapp,
Mr. R. J. Powell-and Mr. George W. Morgan were on the

brief, for plaintiff in error:
Section 7 of-chap. 163 must be considered in its entirety,
if any provision is unconstitutional, the whole falling. Thd
legislature would not have passed the statute without the
clause making a trespass a felony, or the clause allowing
double damages -in case of a casual or involuntary trespass.
Where an invalid provision in a statute was the inducement to the act, or where the provisions of the act are so

SHEVLIN-CARPENTER CO. v. MINNESOTA.
218 U. S.

59

Argument for Plaintiff in -Error.

intimately connected with each other as to warrant the
belief that the legislature intended them as a whole, then
the whole statute must fall. Pollock v. Farmers' L. & T.
Co., 158 U. S. 601, 635; Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S.
270, 304; Huber v. Martin, 127 Wisconsin, 412; Meyer v.
Berlandi, 39 Minnesota, 438; Commonwealth v. Harra
(Mass.), 11 L. R. A., N. S., 799; 0. R. & N. Co. v. Smallep,
23 Pac. Rep. 1008; Texas & Pacific R. Co. v. Mahaffey,
84 S. W. Rep. 646; Sutherland on Stat. Const., §§ 173178. The Supreme Court of Minnesota treated the provisions of § 7 as inseparable, apd considered the section as a
whole, and this court is concluded by that construction of
the statute. Gatewood v. North Carolina, 203 U. S. 531;
Armour Packing Co. v. Lacy, 200 U. S. 226; Smiley v.
Kansas, 196 U. S. 447.
In determining whether or not an action is civil or
criminal in its nature the form of action is immaterial.
The test is whether it is to punish a public offense or to
redress a private injury. United States v. McKee, 4 Dill.
128;S.C., Fed. Cas. No. 15,688; Coffey v. United States, 116
U. S. 436; Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616; Wisconsiii
v. Pelican Insurance Co., 127 U. S. 265; Huntington v.
Aitril, 146 U. S. 657; Lees v. United States, 150 U. S. 476;
United States v. One Distillery, 43 Fed. Rep. 846, 852;
United States v. Shapleigh, 54 Fed. Rep. 1264 A., T. &
S. F. Railway v. United States, 172 Fed. Rep. 194.
The double damages imposed by § 7 upofi the trespasser
are a punishment for an alleged public offense, and the
provision is penal in its nature. Mo. Pac. Ry. v. Humes,
115 U. S. 512; Fay v. Parker, 53 N. I-. 342, and see State
v. Buckman, 95 Minnesota, 272.
This is a penal action, and is unconstitutional as to
plaintiffs in error because they are also subject to a punishment for the same acts under the provisions of the
statute imposing a fine or imprisonment, thereby being
subject to be put twice in jeopardy for the same offense.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

218 U. S.

The plaintiffs in error may properly raise this objection.
In the following cases the defendant had not yet been
proceeded against criminally, yet the court refused to
allow the imposition of punitive damages: Fay v. Parker,
53 N. H. 342, 390; Austin v. Wilson, 4 Cush. 273; Taber
v. Hutson, 5 Indiana, 322, 325; Koerner v. Oberly, 56
Indiana, 284, 287; Shafer v. Smith, 63 Indiana, 226, 228.
A statute which places persons twice in jeopardy for
the same offense does not satisfy the requirements of due
process of law and further deprives them of a privilege
and immunity guaranteed under the Federal Constitution. Ex parte Lang, 18 Wall. 163; Ex parte Ulrich, 42
Fed. Rep. 587; Mbore v. People, 14 How. .13.
Although the denial by the States of several of the rights
secured by the first ten amendments has been held not to
be a denial of due process of law the question whether the
placing of a person twice in jeopardy for the same offense
is a deprivation of a privilege and immunity under the
Constitution has never been ,decided. Plaintiff in error
maintains that it is such a deprivation. See cases cited
supra.
Where for the same offense a person is subject to two
punishments which may be inflicted in different proceedings he is put twice in jeopardy, and it is immaterial that
one of the proceedings is civil in form. Co.ffey v, United
States, 116 U. S. 436; United States v. McKee, Fed. Cas.
No. 15,688; United States v. Gates, Fed. Cas. No. 15,191;
United States v. One Distillery, 43 Fed. Rep. 846; United
States v. Shapleigh, 54 Fed. Rep. 133.
Both the provision of § 7 making the casual and involuntary trespasser liable to the State in doubl6 damages, and that declaring his act a felony, violate the.
provision of the Fourteenth Amendment that no person
shall be deprived of liberty dr property without due
process of law.

SHEVLIN-CARPENTER CO. v. MINNESOTA.
218 U. S.

61

Counsel for Parties.

The effect of the statute is to eliminate altogether the
question of intent and this is a denial of due process of
law. Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386; Coffey v. Harlan County,
204 U. S. 659.
That there are implied limitations upon the power of
the legislature growing out of the essential nature of our
Government-which are now embraced in the provisions of
the Fourteenth Amendment-is declared by many courts.
See Bardwell v. Collins,,44 Minnesota, 97; State v. Billings,
55 Minnesota, 467; State v. Foley, 30 Minnesota, 350;
Minnesota Sugar Co. v. Iverson, 91 Minnesota, 30; Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Pet. 627; Regent vI Williams, 9 Gill. & J.
365; Powers v. Bergen, 6 N. Y. 358; Goshen v. Stonington,
4 Connecticut, 209; Young v. McKensie, 3 Kelly (Ga.),
31; Ex parte Martin, 13 Arkansas, 198; Henry v. Railway
Co., 10 Iowa, 540, 543.
These provisions cannot be justified nor saved from the
operation. of the Fourteenth Amendment as a proper
exercise of the police power of the State.
The object of the statute was not a proper one for the
exercise of the police power. Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Humes,
115 U. S. 512; Colon v. Lisk, 153 N. Y. 188; Minn. Ry.
Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26; Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. v.
Ellis, 165 U. S. 150.
Assuming that the object of the statute was one which
might properly be effectuated by an exercise of the police
power, nevertheless this statute cannot be upheld as a
reasonable or appropriate exercise of the power. Mugler
v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 669; Welch v. Swazey, 214 U. S.
91; Denver & R. G. R. Co. v. Outcalt, 31 Pac. Rep. 177;
Cottrel v. Un. Pac. Ry. Co., 21 Pac* Rep. 416.
Mr. George T. Simpson, Attorney-General of the State
of Minnesota, with whom Mr. Charles S. Jelley and Mr.
Lyndon A. Smith were on the brief, for defendant in
error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

21S U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the' opinion of the
court.
This case involves the consideration of the validity under the Constitution of the United States of the imposition
;f double damages under an act of the State of Minnesota
for a "casual and involuntary trespass," made by cutting
or assisting to cut timber upon the lands of the State.
The act is set out in the margin.'
The action was brought to recover the sum of $51,324.42
for timber cut by plaintiffs in error from certain lands of
'SEc. 7. If any person, firm or corporation, without a valid and
existing permit therefor, cuts or employs, or induces any other person,
firm or corporation to cut, or assist in cutting any timber of whatsoever
description, on State lands, or removes or carries away, or employs, or
induces, or assists any other person, firm or corporation to remove or
carry away any such timber or other property, he shall be liable to the
State in treble damages, if such trespass is adjudged to have been
wilful; but double damages only in case the trespass is adjudged to
have been casual and involuntary, and shall have no right whatsoever
to any remuneration or allowance for labor or expenses incurred in
removing such other property, cutting such timber, preparing the same
for market, or transporting the same to or towards market.
Whoever cuts or removes, or employs or induces any other person,
firm or corporation to cut or remove any timber or other property from
State lands, contrary to the provisions of this act, or without conforming in each and every respect thereto, shall be guilty of a felony, and
upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one
thousand (1,000) dollars, or by imprisonment in the State prison not
exceeding two (2) years, or by both, in case the trespass is adjudged
to have been wilful.
Whenever any timber so cut is intermingled with any other timber,
or whenever other property taken from State lands is intermingled
with other property, the State may seize and sell the whole quantity
so intermingled, pursuant to the provisions of section forty (40) of
this act, and such other timber or property shall be presumed to have
been also cut from State lands.
Provided the intermingling of timber above referred to shall only
apply to cases having been adjudged as wilful trespass.

SHEVLIN-CARPENTER CO. v. MINNESOTA.
218 U. S.

63

Opinion of the Court.

the State "without a valid and existing permit." The
question in the case revolves around. this permit and the
extensions of it alleged by plaintiffs in error to have been
given.
The findings of the court show the following facts:
The State sold at public auction, in accordance with the
statute, the timber on the lands to John F. Irwin, one of
the plaintiffs in error, acting for himself and as agent of the
Shevlin-Carpenter Company, and a permit waR issued by
the auditor and land commissioners of the State, which
contained the following clause: "That no extension of
time of this permit shall be granted except as provided in
section 24, chapter 163, General Laws, 1895." The section provides that no permit shall be issued to cover more
than two seasons, and no permit shall be extended except
by unanimous consent of the board of timber commissioners, and under no circumstances shall an extension be
granted for more than one year, and then only for good
and sufficient reasons. Irwin gave bond as required by
law. On the seventh of May, 1902, th permit was extended until the first of June, 1903. At the time the
permit was extended the sum of $1,307, as required by
law, was paid by plaintiffs in error into the treasury of
the State, that sum being twenty-five per cent of the appraised value of the timber. In the winter of the years
1903-1904 plaintiffs in error, knowing that there had been
one extension of the permit, and that that extension had
expired, entered upon the land and cut and removed therefrom 2,444,020 feet of timber, which it was agreed .was
worth six dollars per thousand feet, board measure. After
the timber was cut the surveyor general of the lumber
district scaled and returned the amount. of the same to
the auditor of the State, which officer erroneously coinputed the amount due froIrI plaintiffs in error at the con'tract price of stumpage value thereof, as if the permit
were still in force, finding the sFame to be $18,574.39.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S..

This amount was paid to the State and no part of it has
been returned.
From these facts the court deduced the conclusion that
the permit expired on the first of June, 1902, and that the
extension thereof expired on the first of June, 1903, and
that after the latter date it was of no effect and absolutely
void, and was known to be so to plaintiffs in error when
they cut the timber in controversy, and that their entry
upon the lands was in violation of the law. They were
adjudged wilful violators Tof the law and damages were
assessed against them at treble the value of the timber,
to wit, $43,992.36. The court, however, decided that a
deduction should be made from that sum of $16,997,
money paid by plaintiffs, in diror to the State after the
permit had expired. There were other sums of money,.
with the disposition of which we are not concerned. Judgment was entered against plaintiffs in error for the sum of
$26,995.17. The Supreme Court affirmed the conclusion
of the trial court, that the permit had expired, and that
the cutting and removing of the timber were illegal, but
disagreed with that court as to the character of the trespass. The Supreme Court said: "The finding of the trial
court that appellant was guilty of wilful trespass is not
sustained by the ev idence. On the contrary, the record
conclusively shows that appellant had reasonable ground
for believing authority had been granted and honestly
acted on such belief." The court hence decided that the
judgment should only have been for double, not treble,
damages, saying, "being of opinion that in this action the
State is limited to a recovery of double damages and the
timber cut having been paid for, the judgment is necessarily to the value found." The case was remanded with
directions to reduce the judgment to $14,664.12. In all
other respects it was affirmed.
On the question of the validity of the law under the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United

SHEVLIN-CARPENTER CO. v. MINNESOTA.
218 U. S.

65

Opinion of the Court.

States the court said: "On a former appeal upon demurrer
to the complaint, State v. Shevlin-Carpenter Company, 99
Minnesota, 158, the constitutional questions were raised,
and it was there held that the act was constitutional, and
that in case of trespass the State might recover either
double the value of the property taken or treble the value,
according to whether the facts constituted a casual or involuntary, or a wilful or unlawful trespass. We adhere
to that decision, and for the reasons set forth in the opinion then filed."
This statement of the facts and the rulings of the courts
of Minnesota exhibitthe controversy, the State contending that the penalties of the statute are incurred by a
casual or involuntary trespass; the plaintiffs in error insisting that to attach that consequence to acts done in
good faith violates the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States.
Another contention is made by plaintiff in error. The
statute makes one who cuts or removes timber contrary to
the provisions of the act, or "without conforming in each
and every respect thereto," guilty of. a felony, and prescribes a fine or imprisonment, or both, in case the trespass
is adjudged to have been wilful. To avail themselves of
an objection to these provisions plaintiffs in error insist
that they are not separable from the provision for double
and treble damages and the statute becomes therefore unconstitutional, for under it the plaintiffs in error are subject to be put twice in jeopardy for the same offense..
The argument made to sustain the contention that the
act must be considered single and that *totreat its provisions as separable would destroy its integrity and defeat
the purpose of the legislature, is somewhat elaborate. Its
basie elements are that the statute is penal and its provisions for damages and for fine and imprisonment are
punishments for the same'act of wrongdoing, designed as
VOL. CCXV11-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

such and intended to be inseparable, and that the statute
therefore subjects an offender to a double jeopardy. And
this though the two punishments "may be inflicted in
different proceedings," it being contended that "it is immaterial that one of the proceedings is civil in form."
This being the consequence of the statute, it is insisted
that it "does not satisfy the requirements of due process
of law," and deprives plaintiffs in error "of a privilege
and immunity guaranteed under the Federal Constitution."
. The argument may be answered by denying its assumptions. The purpose of the act does not depend upon the
inseparableness of its punishment. Its purpose, of course,
was to protect the timber lands of the State, and some
sanctions of the purpose there necessarily had to be.
Double or treble damages and criminal punishment were
selected, but they have no such dependence on each other,
nor such relation to the purpose of the act as to demonstrate that both forms were necessary to it, or that one
would not have-been selected if the other could riot have
been. But, it is contended, this conclusion is not open
to this court to make, for the "sufficient and compelling
reason" that the Supreme Court of the State has decided
to the contrary. To sustain this conclusion plaintiffs in
error quote certain contentions of the Attorney-General of
the State, made in the Supreme Court, and the reply of
the court to the contentions. They do not support the:
conclusion deduced from them. It was urged by the
Attorney-General that only wilful trespassers were subject
to fine and imprisonment, but if such punishment could
be held applicable to ".casual and involuntary" trespassers, and the act be decided unconstitutional as to
that class, nevertheless it could be adjudged constitutional as to wilful trespassers. The court replied that the
provision for fines and imprisonment was applicable to
both classes of trespassers. As to the punishments, the

SHEVLIN-CARPENTER CO. v. MINNESOTA.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

court intimated that they were independent. Replying
to the contention that to sustain this action would subject plaintiffs in error to the jeopardy of a second punishment, the court.said that plaintiffs in error were "probably a little premature in raising the point." And further
said, "it might come with some force if presented in a
criminal prosecution after recovery in a civil action." In
this 'weconcur. In other words, plaintiffs in error cannot
base a defense upon an anticipation of what may never
occur. To permit this would aischarge them from all
liability, for the defense, if good at all, would be good
against whatever action might be brought. Necessarily
there must' be a first jeopardy before there can be a second,
and only when a second is sought.is the constitutional
immunity from double punishment threatened to be taken
away. An occasion for the defense of double jeopardy
may occur if the State of Minnesota should proceed criminally against plaintiffs in error. We do not mean to say,
however, that it-will be justified. We do not mean to say
that the state law subjects an offender against is provisions to a double jeopardy. Nor do we mean to imply
that even if it have such effect the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States may be
invoked against it. Of that question we reserve, opinion.
The next contention of plaintiffs in error is that "both
the provisions of section 7 make a casual and involuntary
trespasser liable to the State in double damages, and that
declaring his act a felony violates the Fourteenth Amendmept," because those provisions "elimiindte altogether. the
question of intent," and that the "elimination of intent
as an element of an offense is contrary to the requirements
of due process of law." To support the contention plaintiffs in error attack the power of a legislature to make an
innocent act a crime, and say that the "principle that
the legislature cannot, by its mere fiat, make an act otherwise innocent a crime, and punishable as such, is one to

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 IT. S.

which this court will give effect, even though it be not
expressly enunciated by the Constitution." The principle as thus expressed is very general, and takes no account of whether a law have prospective or retrospective
operation. It would seem, therefore, to destroy the'wellrecognized distinction between mala in se and mala prohibita. The principle contended for is probably not intended to be taken so broadly, and its generality is further
limited by concession that it may have exceptions "where
so-called criminal negligence supplies a place of criminal
intent, or where, in a. few instances, the public welfare
has made it necessary.to declare a crime, irrespective of
the actor's intent." A concession of exceptions would
seem to destroy the principle. If the principle gets its
life or its protection from the Fourteenth Amendment it
cannot be destroyed by the legislature upon any conception of the public welfare. The Constitution declares the
principle upon which the public welfare is to be promoted,
and opposing ones cannot be substituted. Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 558.
It will be seen that the foundation of the arguments of
plaintiffs in error is that their trespass was an innocent
act. There is some ambiguity as to what is meant by
"innocence."
They quote Mr. Justice Chase in Calder
v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386. It was ther6 said that "a law that
punished a citizen for an innocent action, or, in other
words, for an act, which when done, was in violation of
no existing law," could not "be considered a rightful exercise of legislative power." But it was said: "The legislature may enjoin, permit, forbid and punish; they may
declare new crimes and establish rules of conduct for all
its citizens in future cases." In other words, innocence
cannot be asserted of an action which violates existing
law, and ignorance of the law will not excuse. The law
in controversy has io cx post facto element or effect in it.
It was existing law when the trespass of plaintiffs in error

SHEVLIN-CARPENTER CO. v. MINNESOTA.
218 U. S.

69

Opinion of the Court;

was committed, and a trespass is a legal wrong, not an
innocent act. There is no element of deception or surprise in the law. When the permit was issued plaintiffs
in error knew the limitations of it, and they took it at the
risk and consequences of transgression. The State sought
to guard against its wilful or accidental abuse. Permits
had been abused and the lands of the State despoiled of
their timber. The offenders were difficult to 'detect, or,
if detected, the character of their acts, whether wilful,
accidental or involuntary, equally difficult to establish,
and the State, the Supreme Court said, had been "defrauded and robbed of large sums of money." Double
and treble damages and a criminal prosecution were provided to meet the situation. It would be strange, indeed,
if it were not within the competency of the legislature.
To hold otherwise would -take from the legislature the
power to adjust legislation to -evils as they arise and to the
ways by. which they may be effected., We held in St.
John V. New York, 201 U. S. 633, that a State did not offend the equality clause of the Fou rteenth Amendment
by taking as a basis of classification the ways by which a
law may be defeated. That case was applied in District of
Columnbia v. Brooke, 214 U. S. 138, to sustain a statute
which provided a criminal proceeding against resident
owners of property for neglecting to connect, their property with sewers and civil proceedings against non-resident
owners for a like neglect.
We do not understand the position of plaintiffs in error
to be that a legislature may not prescribe a larger measure of damages than simple compensation, but that anything in excess of such, compensation is punishment and
cannot be constitutionally prescribed where there is no
"conscious intent" to do wrong. And yet plaintiffs in
error except from the principle."certain instances within
the police power," overlooking that the principle if it
exist at all, must be universal. It is true that the police

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

power of a State is the least limitable of its powers, but
even it may not transcend the prohibition of the Constitution of the United States. If, as contended, intent is an
essential element of crime, or, more restrictively, if intent
is essential to the legality of penalties, it must be so, no
matter under what power of the State they are prescribed.
Plaintiffs in error, while considering there may be exceptions to the principle contended for in the exercise of the
police power, urge that the legislation in controversy is
not of that character. The Supreme Court of the State,
however, expressed a different view. It decided that the
legislation was in effect an exercise of the police power,
and cited a number of cases to sustain the proposition
that public policy may require that in the prohibition or
punishment of particular acts it may be provided that he
who shall do them shall do them at his peril and will not
be heard to plead in defense good faith or ignorance.
Those cases are set forth in the opinion of the court, and
some of them reviewed.
We will not repeat them. It was recognized that such
legislation may, in particular instances, be harsh, but we
can only say again what we have so often said, that this
court cannot set aside legislation because it is harsh.
We have considered only the basic principle of the contention of plaintiffs in error, and have not attempted to
follow the details of their argument by which they support it, or the cases which they cite to illustrate it.
The cases are subject to the exceptions we have given.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

concurs in the result.

