WATSON v. MARYLAND.
218 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

WA'ISON v. STATE OF MARYLAND.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
MARYLAND.
No. 174.

Argued April 27, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.

The decision of the state court that an offense under a statute did not
depend on conditions as to notice contained in another statute is
conclusive on this court; and one convicted in a state cort is not
denied due process of law by reason of such construction.
The police power of the State particularly extends to regulating trades
and callings concerning public health, and practitioners of medicine
are properly subject to police regulation, the details of which are
primarily with the legislature and are not to be interfered with by
the Federal courts so long as fundamental constitutional rights are
not violated. Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114.
Classification will not render a state police statute unconstitutional as
denying equal protection of the law so long as there is a reasonable
basis for such classification; nor will exceptions of specified classes
render the law unconstitutional unless there is no fair reason for the
law that would not equally require its extension to the excepted
class. Williams v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 79.
The medical registration law of Maryland (art. 43, § 83, Code of 1904)
is not unconstitutional as denying equal protection of the law because its provisions do not apply to those who practiced prior to a
specified date and treated at least twelve persons within a year
prior thereto, or because it does not apply to gratuitous services, or
to physicians in hospitals, none of the exceptions being unreasonable.
105 Maryland, 650, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of the

statute of Maryland relaive to registration of medical
practitioners in thit State, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles G. Watson for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Isaac Lobe Straus, Attorney General of the State
of Maryland, for defendant in error, submitted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DAY

218 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in erjor was convicted in the Circuit Court
of Allegany County, Maryland, for a violation of § 99 of
article 43 of the Maryland Code of 1904, for the offense
of practicing medicine in the State of Maryland without
being registered in accordance with the provisions of §§ 83
and 89 of the same article. The Maryland act in question,
requiring registration of physicians, provides a comprehensive system for the regulation of the practice of medicine and surgery, and, concerning the necessity of registration, enacts (Art. 43; § 83):
"All persons, except physicians who were practicing
medicine in this State prior to the first day of January,
1898, who are now practicing medicine or surgery and can
prove by affidavit that within one year of said date said
physician had treated in his professional capacity at least
twelve persons, who shall commence the practice of medicine or surgery in any of their branches after the eleventh
day of April, 1902, shall make a written application for
license to the president of either board of medical exaniners," etc.
The statute requires proof of good moral character,
certain school education, and makes provision as to the
effect of diplomas from certain medical colleges, and as
to other and various details required of an applicant for
the practice of medicine or surgery.
The judgment of conviction was affirmed by the Court
of Appeals of Maryland (105 Maryland, 650), and the case
is brought here to review that judgment, because of alleged
violation of certain rights secured to the plaiiitiff in error
by the Fqderal Constitution. The first of these grounds
concerns § 80 of the same act, which provides for the
sending 'of notice to physicians practicing in the State
without being legally registered, and further providing
that those physiciafis being 'entitled to register, and yet

WATSON v. MARYLAND.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

have failed t6 comply at the expiration of four 'months
from the election of the secretary-treasurer of the board,
shall be prosecuted; and that no one after the eleventh
day of April, 1902, shall be allowed to practice medicine
or surgery without being duly registered according to the
provision of the subtitle.
The contention of the .plaintiff in error is that there
being no charge in the indictment, nor proof in the case,
that he was furnished with this notice, his conviction was
without due process of law. But the Court of Appeals
of Maryland, examining this question, determined that
§ 99, under which the indictment Was piosecuted,- making
it a misdemeanor to attempt to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland without registration, was not subject
to the limitations of § 80, relating to the sending of the
notice, etc.
The offense, the Court of Appeals held, was created
solely by § 99 in broad and general language, without
exceptions or qualification, arid that for conviction under
that section it was not essential to prove the sending of
the notice required by § 80. This construction of the
Maryland statute is conclusive upon us. The accused
had a trial before a court and jury under the statutes of
Maryland, was proceeded against under the forms provided for by the laws of that State, and under a statute
which the highest court of the State has held completely
defined the offense without resorting to the necessity of
notifying unregistered physicians before they became liable
for the penalties of the act for practicing without registration. The contention that the conviction in this aspect
was without due process of law under the Federal Constitution cannot be sustained.
It is next contended that § 83 violates the Federal
Constitution, in the Fourteenth Amendment thereof,
in denying to the plaintiff in error the equal protection
of the laws, in that it makes unreasonable and arbitrary

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

distinctions in its classification of physicians, including
some and excluding others, and in making unreasonable
omissions of' certain' classes from the requirements of the
act, as shown in the exemption of certain classes from its
requirements. It is contended that to except from the
provisions of the act the physicians who were practicing
medicine in the State prior to the first day of January,
1898, who at the time of the passage of the act were
practicing medicine or surgery, and who could prove by
affidavit that within one year of said date they had treated
at least twelve persons in their pr6fessional capacity, is an
unreasonable and arbitrary classification, resulting in the
exclusion from the exception of physicians of equal merit
-and like qualifications with those who are within its
terms.
It'is too well settled to require discussion at this day that
the police power of the States-extends to the regulation of
certain trades and callings, particularly those which closely
concern the public health. There is perhaps no profession more properly open to such regulation than that
which embraces the practitioners of medicine. Dealing,
as its followers do, with the lives and health of the people,
and requiring for its successful practice general education
and technical skill, as well as good character, it is obviously one of those vocations where the power of the
State may be exerted to see that only properly qualified
persons shall undertake its responsible and difficult duties.
To this end many of the States of the Union have enacted
statutes which require the practitioner. of medicine to
Submit to an examination by a competent board of physicians: and surgeons, and to receive duly authenticated
certificates showing that they are deemed to possess the
necessary qualifications of learning, skill and character
essential to their calling. In Dent v. West Virginia, 129
-U.S. 114, the subject is elaborately considered, and this
view affirmed by Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the eourt.

WATSON v. MARYLAND.
218 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

In such statutes there are often found exceptions in
favor of those who have practiced their calling for a
period of years. In the Dent Case, supra, an exception
was made in favor of practitioners of medicine who had
continuously practiced their profession for ten years prior
to a date shortly before the enactment of the law. Such
exception proceeds upon the theory that those who have
acceptably followed the profession in the community for
a period of years may be assumed to have the qualifications which others are required to manifest as a result of
an examination before a board of medical experts. In
the statute under consideration the excepted class were
those who had practiced before the first day of Januiry,
1898, being more than four years before the passage of
the law, and who could show, presumably with a view to
establishing that they were actively practicing at that
.time, that they had treated at least twelve persons within
one year of that date.
Conceding the power of the legislature to make regulations of this character, and to exempt the experienced
and accepted physicians from the requirements of an examination and certificate, the details of such legislation
rest primarily within the discretion of the state legislature.
It is the lawmaking body, and the Federal courts can only
interfere when fundamental rights guaranteed by the
Federal Constitution are violated in the enactment of
such statutes.
This subject has been so frequently and recently before this court as not to require an extended consideration.
The right to regulate occupations was considered by this
court at the present term in the case of Williams v. The
State of Arkansas, 217 U. S. 79, in which it was held that
a state statute which prohibited a certain class of drumming or soliciting of business on trains did not amount
to a denial of the equal protection of the law. In that
case the recent cases in this court were reviewed and folVOL. ccxvln-12

O(UrOBER TERM, '1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

luwed. It was therein held that regulations of a particular
trade or business essentida-o the public health and safety
are within the legislative capacity of the State in the
exercise of its police power, and that unless such regulations are so unreasonable and extravagant as to interfere
with property and personal rights of citizens, unnecessarily -and arbitrarily, they are within the power of the
State; and that the classification of the subjects of such
legislation, so long as such classification has a reasonable
basis and is not ierely arbitrary selection without real
difference between the subjects included and those omitted
from the law, does. not -deny to the citizen the equal protection of the laws. Applying these tests, We see nothing
arbitrary or oppressive in the classification of physicians
subject to the provisions of this statute which excludes
from its requirements those who have practiced prior to
January 1, 1898, and were able to show that they had
treated at least twelve persons in a professional way within
a year of that date.
But it is insisted that undue discrimination is shown
and equal protection of the law denied in the exceptions
of the statute provided for in Art. 43, § 101, of the code.
These exceptions are contained in the following portions
of that section:
1 .
but hothing herein contained shall be construed to apply to gratuitous services, nor to any resident
or assistant resident physician or students at hospitals
in the discharge of their hospital or dispensary duties, or
in the office of physicians, or to any physician or surgeon
from another State, Territory or District in which be re-.
sides when in actual consultation with a legal practitioner
of this ,tate or to commissioned surgeons of the United
States Army or Navy or Marine Hospital Service, or to
chiropodists, or to midwives, or to masseurs or other
manual manipulators, who use no othei means; nor shall
the provisions of this subtitle apply to physicians or sur-

WATSON t. MARYLAND.
218 U. S.

179

Opinion of the Court.

geons residing on the borders of a neighboring State, and
duly authorized under the laws thereof to practice medicine or surgery therein, whose practice extends into the
limits of this State: Provided, That such practitioners
shall not open an office or appoint places to meet their
patients or receive calls within the limits of this State
without complying with the provisions of this subtitle:
Provided, That the same privileges be accorded to licensed
physicians of this State: Provided, further, That nothing
in this subtitle shall annul any of the provisions of article
32, title 'Dentistry,' nor shall apply to any registered
graduate of dental surgery now practicing in the State of
Maryland, with the sign titles: Dentist, Surgeon Dentist,
Dental Surge6n of Stomatologist."
The Court of Appeals of Maryland contented itself
on this branch of the case with a reference to its former
decisions as to certain of the exceptions, and as to the others
with the expression of the opinion that all of them came
within the discretion vested in the16gislature in the exercise of the police power to m6.ke regulations for the
public health and safety. We shall not take occasion to
consider each of these exceptionS. A reading of them
makes it manifest that they are not without reason. Before a law of this kind can be declared violative of the
Fourteenth Amendment as an unreasonable classification
of the subjects of such legislation because of the omission
of certain classes, the court must be able to say that there
is"no fair reason for the law that would not require with
equal force its extension to others whom it leaves untouched." Such was the expression of this court in Missouri, Kansas & Texas R. R. Co. v. May, 194 U. S. 269,
quoted with approval in Williams v. -Arkansas, supra.
The stress of the argument for the plaintiff in error as
to these exceptions is put upon the exemption of resident physicians, or assistant physicians, at hospitals, and
students on hospital %nd dispensary, duties. The selec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

"218 U. S.

tion of the exempted classes was within the legislative
power, subject only to the restriction that it be not arbitrary or oppressive and apply equally to all persons similarly situated. We cannot sak that these exceptions
nullify the law. The reason for them may be that hospitals are very often the subject of state or municipal
regulation and control, and employment in them may be
by boards responsible to public authority under state law
or municipal ordinance. Certainly the conduct of such
institutions may be regulated by such laws or municipal
regulations as might not reach the general practitioner of
medicine. In any event, we cannot say that.these exceptions are so wholly arbitrary and have such slight
relation to the objects to be attained by the law as to require the courts to strike them down as a denial of the
equal protection of the law within the meaning of the
Federal Constitution.
Other questions are made in the record, but they do not
present alleged. denials of rights of a Federal character,
reviewable here. We find no error in the .judgment of
the Court of Appeals of Maryland, and the same is affirmed.

Affirmed.
CITY OF OMAHA v. OMAHA WATER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 159.

Argued April 19, 1910.-Decidhd May 31, 1910.

In the absence of any provision in the submission, the award of arbitrators or appraisers must be unanimous in matters of private

concern, but a majority can act when the matter submitted is one
which concerns the public.
The fact that public affairs are controlled by majorities is probably the
basis of the above rule although the reason for the distinction therein
contained is not altogether clear.

