OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for' Plaintiffs in Error.

218 U. S.

ONG CHANG WING v. UNITED STATES,
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

-No. 418.

Argued October 21, 1910.-Decided November 7, 1910.

As applied to criminal procedure, if the accused has been heard in a
court of competent jurisdiction and proceeded against under the
,orderly processes of law, and only punished after inquiry and investigation on notice with opportunity to be heard, and judgment
awarded within the authority of a constitutional law, he has not
been denied due process of law.
The lawmaking power in the Philippine Islands has power to preserve
by statutory enactment the right to prosecute and punish offenses
committed prior to the repeal of an act defining and punishing the
offense; and a decision of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands holding that one who committed the offense before the repeal of the act can be punished after the repeal, does not amount
to a denial of due process of law within the meaning of the due
process clause of the act of July 1, 1902.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a conviction in
the Philippine Islands and the construction of the act of
July 1, 1902, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles F. Consaul, with whom Mr. Charles C.
Heltman and Mr. Frank B. Ingersoll were on the brief,
for plaintiffs in error:
The defendants were prosecuted under article 343 of
the Penal Code and the act of the Philippine Commission of October 9, 1907, which ekpressly repealed article 343. There being no saving clause regarding the prosecution of offenses under the repealed articles of the Penal
Code, defendants are under both American and Spanish
law entitled to an acquittal. 12 "Cyc." 144.
The quotation from Pacheco in United States v. Cuna,

ONG CHANG WING v. UNITED STATES.
218 U. S.

273

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

12 Philippine. Rep. 245, does not sustain the decision as
there are intimations and even exact declarations to the
contrary in Pacheco; .Ad see 1 Viada's Codigo Penal, 402.
Under "due process of law," as that term is used and
understood in the United States, and as it was presumably
used and understood by Congress when the Philippines
Act was enacted, it is not consistent that plaintiffs be
punished for infraction of a law which no longer exists on
the statute books of the Philippine Islands. See ยง 10 of
the Philippines Act of 1902. This court should construe
the term "due process of law" in the same manner as
though this case arose in one of the Territories of the
United States, unhampered by any theory advanced by
the Supreme Court of the Philippines as to what may
have been the Spanish law relative to the effect of the
repeal of a penal statute.
The Supreme Court of the Philippines erred in its statement of the rule incident to th Spanish law upon this
point.
Even were the Supreme Court of the Philippines correct in its statement of the Spanish rule, yet still its judgment should be reversed because utterly repugnant to the
definition of the term "due process of law" as used by
Congress in the Philippines Act.
There is no substantial difference between 'the repeal
of the statute under which the accused is prosecuted and a
pardon. Both wipe out the offense and neither can be
ignored by the court.
The decision of the Supreme Court of the Philippines
was not in accord with the principles of the eommon law..
United States v. Peggy, 1 Cranch, 103; Yeatbn v. United
States, 5 Cranch, 281. After the expiration or repeal of a
law, no penalty can -be enforced, nor punishment inflicted, for violations of the law committed- while it was
in force; unless special provision be made for.that purpose
by statute. 12 ccCyc." 144. And see Jordanv. State, 15
VOL. ccxvii-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

218 U. S.

Alabama, 746; Commonwealth v. Ja~kson, 2 B. Mon.
(Ky.) 402; Keller v. State, 12 Maryland, 322; Commonwealth v. McDonough, 13 Allen (Mass.), 581; Commonwealth v, Marshall, 11 Pick. 350; Teague v. State, 39
Mississippi, 516; State v. Long, 78 N. C. 571; Commonwealth v. Duane, 1 Binn. (Pa.) 601; Commonwealth v.
Dolan, 4 Pa. Co. Ct. 287; State v. Lewis, 33 S. E. Rep. 351
(S. C.); State v. Mansel, 52 S. C. 468; Greer v. State, 22
Texas, 588; Halfin v. State, 5 Tex. App. 212; Roberts v.
State, 2 Overt. (Tenn.) 423; Wharton v. State, 5 Coldw.
(Tenn.) 1; Bennett v. State, 2 Yerg. 472 (Tenn.).
Even when an indictment has been found and a prosecution is pending under a statute at the time of its repeal,
without a saving clause, there can be no conviction under
the statute after the repeal. Carlisle v. State, 42 Alabama,
523; Griffin v. State, 39 Alabama, 541; Mayers v. State, 7
Arkansas, 68; People v. Tisdale, 57 California, 104; Day
v. Clinton, 6 Ill. App. 476; Hartung v. People, 22 N. Y.
95; United States v. Passmore, 4 Dall. 372; United States
v. Finlay, 25 Fed. Cas., No. 15,099; Regina V. Mawgan,
8 A. & E. 496.
Even when the statute is repealed after the accused has
been c6nvicted, judgment must be arrested. Commonwealth v. Jackson, 2 B. Mon. (Ky.) 402; Commonwealth v,
Kimball, 21 Pick. 373; Commonwealth v. Marshall, 11
Pick. 350.
And if an appeal from a conviction is pending when the
statute is repealed, the judgment of conviction must be
set aside and the indictment quashed. Speckert v. Louisville, 78 Kentucky, 287; Smith v. State, 45 Maryland, 49;
Keller v. State, 12 Maryland, 322; Commohwealth v. Kimball, 21 Pick. 373; Commonwealth v. Marshall, 11 Pick.
350.
This is so 'even though argument has been heard and
the appeal dismissed, Keller v. State, 12 Maryland, 322,
or where the repeal takes place pending the proceedings,

ONG CHANG WING v. UNITED STATES.
218 U. S.

275

Argument for the United States.

State v. Henderson, 13 La. Ann. 489; Wall v. State, 18
Texas, 682.
A party cannot be convicted, after the law under
which he may be prosecuted has been repealed, although
the offense may have been committed before repeal.
Dwarris, 670; 1 Kent, 465; State v. Railroad Co., 12 G. &
J. 399. The same principle applies where the law is repealed, or expires pending an appeal on a writ of error
from the judgment of an inferior court. Yeaton v. United
States, 5 Cranch, 581; United States v. Ship Helen, 6
Cranch, 203; United States v. Preston, 3 Peters, 57; Maryland v. Railroad Co., 3 How. 534; Smith v. State, 45
Maryland, 49.
Mr. Edwin P. Grosvenor, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with Whom Mr. William S. Kenyon, Assistant to the Attorney General, was on the brief, for the
United States:
The right asserted by. plaintiffs in error that they go
free, in spite of the fact that statute No. 1757, which repealed article 343, preserved gambling among the list of
punishable offenses, is not an element of-due process of law.
While it was the intention of Congress by ยง 5 of the act
of July 1, 1902, to carry'some at least of the essential
principles of American constitutional jurisprudence to
these islands, and to engraft them upon the law of this
people newly subject to our jurisdiction, Kepner v. United
States, 195 U. S. 100, 122; Dorr v. United States, 195 U. S.
138; Trono v. United States, 199 U. S.521; Serra v. Mortiga,
204 U. S. 370, 474; Weems v. United States, 217 U. S.349,
the guarantees extended to the Philippines are to be interpreted as meaning what the like provisions meant in
the United States at the time when Congress made them
applicable to the Philippines.
In this case the nrght asserted by the plaintiffs in error
is not an element of "due process of law".within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

218 U. S.

meaning given to that phrase by any American court at
the time of the enactment of the Philippine bill. See
Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 110, holding that
exemption from compulsory incrimination is not an element of "due process of law."
It is equally clea r that the phrase does not include a
right like that asserted by these plaintiffs in error.
As the right asserted by the plaintiffs in error does not
come within the conception of due process of law, the
writ of error must be dismissed, for there is no other
ground'on which this court can take jurisdiction.
The Philippines assembly had authority to repeal
article 343. The repeal of the statute under which they
had been convicted did not impair any rights of the defendants.
Whether the Philippine legislature in repealing article, 343 shourd or should not make impossible t.he execution
of sentences imposed underj t was .a matter for the Philippine legislature. Whether its act did or did not have that
effect was a question for the Philippine courts to decide.
United States v. Cuna, 12 Phil, Rep. 241.
This decision of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands is conclusive here. Perez v. Fernandez, 202 U. S.
80; Kepner United States, 195 U. S. 100, 122. Also see
the President's instructions for the guidance of the commissioners of -the Philippine Islands, April 7, 1900, Comp.
Acts of Philip. Comm. 14, ratified by Congress July 1,
1902,.32 Stat. 691.
Eve6 if the rule of the common law were as stated by
the plaintiffs in error, the common law has not been extended to the Philippines by any act of Congress. It can
be incorp.orated into the. law of those islands only by
legislative enactment.
The decision of the Supreme Court of the Philippines
was, however, in accord with the -principles of the common law. A repeal of a criminal statute for the purpose
'.

ONG CHANG WING. v. UNITED STATES.
218 U. S.

277

Opinion of the Court.

of abolishing the crime is to be distinguished from a repeal effected by a merely superseding statute.
After final judgment is pronounced, the power of the
court over the subject-matter is at an end; the ministerial
act of executing the sentence is all that remains to be
done. State v. Addington, 2 Bailey's S.. C. Law, 516;
Aaron v. The State, 40 Alabama, 307.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error bring this case here for review
by writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands, upon the ground that the effect of the judgment
of that court has been to deprive them of due process of
law, in violation of ยง 5 of the act of Congress of July 1,
1902, c. 1369, 32 Stat. 691, 692, enacting. the due process
clause of the Federal Constitution as a part of the statute
for the government of those islands. No other question
is presented in the record which we can review.
The plaintiffs in error were tried, convicted and sentenced on October 4, 1907, in the court of first instance, for
violation of article 343 of the Philippine Penal Code, which
makes it an offense to conduct a gambling house, or to be
a banker therein. Plaintiffs in error were sentenced in the
court of first instance to two months and ne day of arresto
mayor, with the accessories of article 61, and to pay a
fine of 625 pesetas, and in default thereof to suffer subsidiary imprisonment, not to exceed one-third of the principal penalty, and costs.
Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands that court held that the guilt of the appellants
was fully established, and affirmed -the judgment of the
court of first instance. In the Supreme Court the plaintiffs in error made the.objection, which is the foundation
of the proceedings here, that they weom convicted under
the provisions of article 343 of the Phil'ppine Codf for an

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinlon of the Court.

218 U. S.

offense committed on the fifteenth of September, 1907,
that thereafter the Philippine Commission, on October 9,
1907, by an act numbered 1757, repealed, among others,
article 343 of the Philippine Penal Code, and that consequently the court had no authority to impose upon the appellants the penalty prescribed in the repealed article of the
code. The Supreme Court of the islands denied this contentiofi upon the authority of another decision in the same
court. United States v. El Chino Cuna, 12 Philippine Rep.
241. A reference to the Cuna case shows that the Supreme
Court of the.,Philippines, construing the articles of the
local Penal Code, and applying what was deemed the
applicable Spanish law, held that whether an act was
punishable after the repeal of the act under which it was
undertaken to be inflicted depended upon whether or not
at the time of the commission of the act there was a law in
force which penalized it. The court reserved the question
whether the punishment provided in the repealing act
could alone be inflicted if such penalty is more, favorable
to the accused than that prescribed in the former act,
because of the provisions of article 22 of the code, which
provides that penal laws shall have a retroactive effect
in So far as they favor persons convicted of a crime or
misdemeanor.
It appears that the new act, No. 1757, which took the
place of the repealed act, article No. 343 of the Philippine
Penal Code, did not undertake to wipe out the offense of
gambling, or keeping a gambling house in the Philippine
Islands, but substantially reenacted the former law with
more elaboration and detail in its provisions than were
contained in the former law.
In the new act ยง 2 defines a gambling house to be a
building or structure or vessel, or part thereof, in which
gambling is frequently carried on. -Under article 343 of
the Penal Code of the Philippine Islands, as it existed
when the sentence in this case was imposed, the bankers

ONG CHANG WING v. UNITED STATES.
218 U. S.

279

Opinion of the Court.

and proprietors of houses where games of chance, stakes
or hazard are played were punished. The decision of the
court of first instance, found in the record in this case,
held that, in order to punish the crime of gambling, in accordance with article 343 of the Penal Code, it must appear
that the house where the gambling took place was a house
devoted to encouraging gambling, as held in various decisions of the Supreme Court of Spain applicable to the
case at bar, and that such facts had been fully established
b6ythe proof in the case.
The sentence imposed was within the limits provided
in act No. 1757, under which the keeping of, a gambling
house can be punished. The case, therefore, presented
for our consideration is one of conviction under a statute
which was repealed after the conviction and sentence in
the court of first instance, the repealing act also providing
for the punishment of the same offense and within limitations not exceeded by the sentence imposed under the
former act.
The precise question then is, Did the Supreme Court of
the Philippine Islands deny the plaintiffs in error due
process of law in affirming a conviction under the circumstances stated? It is argued that the Supreme Court 'of
the Philippines misapplied the provisions of the Penal,
Code and the Spanish law in the light of which it was interpreted. On the part of the Government it is insisted
that, even at common law, the affirmation of a conviction
under a law valid when it was had was not erroneous, and
that it was within the power of a reviewing court so to do4 ..
but we are not concerned with this question. Our sole
province. is to determine whether the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands amounts to a
denial of due process of law.
This court has had frequent occasion to consider the
requiremients of due process of law as applied to criminal
procedure, and, generally speaking, it may be said that

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

if an accused has been heard in a court of competent
jurisdiction, and proceeded against under the orderly
processes of law, and only punished after inquiry and investigation, upon notice to him, with an opportunity to be
heard, and a judgment awarded within the authority of a
constitutional law, then he has had due process of law.
Rogers v. Peck, 199 U. S. 425, 435; Twining v. New Jersey,
211 U. S. 78, and the cases therein cited.,
In the present case there can be no doubt that.-t~ie
lawmaking power in the Philippine Isiands ould by
statutory enactment have preserved the right to prosecute
and punish offenses committed in violation of the former
law while in force in the islands, notwithstanding the repeal of the act. The effect of the decision of the Philippine
Supreme Court is to hold that under khe law and iocal
statutes, the repealing act reenacting substantially the
former law, and not increasing the punishment of the
accused, the right still exists to punish the accused for an
offense of which they were convicted and sentenced before
the passage of the later act. In other words, the effect of
the decision construing the local law is to accomplish
what it was clearly within the power of the legislative
authority to do by an express act saving the right to proceed as to offenses already committed. The accused have
not been punished for a crime which was not punishable
when committed by the sentence imposed. The Supreme
Court has only held that the right to impose the penalty
of the law under the Philippine Penal Code has not been
taken away by the subsequent statute. We are unable to
see that due process of law, which is the right of a person
accused of a crime, when prosecuted within a jurisdiction
wherein the Constitution of the United States, or a statute
embracing its provisions, is in force, has been denied.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands will be affirmed.
Affirmed.

