HERNDON v. CHI., ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 135
21S U. S.

Syllabus.

HERNDON, PROSECUTING ATTORNEY OF CLINTON

COUNTY,

MISSOURI,

AND

SWANGER,

[ROACH] SECRETARY OF STATE OF THE
STATE OF MISSOURI, v. CHICAGO, ROCK
ISLAND ANI) PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 150. Argued April 14, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.
Objections to a bill for multifariousness and improper joinder of parties
must be promptly made, and properly by special demurrer specifically directed to the objection; and so held that in the absence of
specific objection properly raised at the outset the court can determine in the same action, as against the prosecuting attorney of a
State, whether a statute is enforceable under the Constitution of
the United States, and, as against the secretary of state, whether
the bringing of the action in the Federal court will, under another
statute, forfeit complainant's right to do business in the State.
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 1, and West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Andrews, 216
U. S. 165, followed, to effect that an action brought to enjoin state
officers charged with the execution of a state statute from enforcing
the .same on the ground that such statute violates the Federal
Constitution is not an action against the State within the prohibition of the Eleventh Amendment.
Where a railroafd company has already provided adequate accommodation at any point, a state regulation requiring interstate trains
to stop at such point is an unreasonable burden on interstate commerce and void under the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, and this'rule equally applies to junction, as to other,
points; and so held as to the act of March 19, 1907, amending
§ 1075, Rev. Stat. of Missouri.
A statute requiring interstate trains to stop at junction points for the
convenience of passengers should be construed as a regulation of
commerce and not as a police statute for the protection of life and
limb.
While the right to do local business within a State may not be derived
from the Fe~tcral lonstitutioi, the right to resort to Federal courts
is one ereated by that Constitution; and, as against a foreign cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellants.

218 U. S.

poration already established within its borders, a State cannot
forfeit the right to do business because of the bringing of an,action
in the Federal court, and so hdd that the act of March 13, 1907, of
Missouri, imposing such a penalty, is unconstitutional and void as
to a foreign corporation already in the State at that time.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of cer-

tain statutes of the State of Missouri, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. James T. Blair, with whom Mr. Elliott W. Major,
Attorney General of Missolari, and Mr. Charles G. Revelle
were on the brief, for appellants:
Statutes requiring trains to stop at the intersection of
the track on which they are running with the tracks of
other railroads are valid as police regulations. I. .&St. L.
R. R. Co. i'. People, 91 Illinois, 455; Birmingham R. R.
Co. v. Jacobs, 92 Alabama, 191; R. & D. R. R. Co. v.
Freeman, 97 Alabama, 297; P. & P. U. Ry. Co. v. P. & F.
Ry. Co., 105 Illinois, 117; C. & A. R. R. Co. v. J. L. & A.
Ry. Co., 165 Illinois, 400; S. A. & A. P. Ry. Co. v. Bowles,
88 Texas, 639; Louisville R. R. Co. v. E. T. Ry. Co., 22
U. S. App. 110; State v. K. C., Ft. S. & G. R. R. Co., 32
Fed. Rep. 724; Ches. & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Commonwealth, 99
Kentucky, 176; Commonwealth v. Ches. & Ohio Ry. Co.,
29 S. W. Rep. 136; F. & P. M. R. R. Co. v. D. & B. C.
R. R. Co., 64 Michigan, 370; K. C. Sub. B. Ry. Co. v.
K. C., St. L. & C. Ry. Co., 118 Missouri, 623; L. S. & M.
S. R. R. Co. v. Railway Co., 30 Ohio St. 610; 33 Cyc. 670;
Freund on Police Power, § 73; Southern Ry. v. King, 87
C. C. A. 290; Elliott on Railroads, 2d ed., § 668; Cleveland
Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 522, 523; Iowa v. C. M. &
St. P. Ry. Co., 122 Iowa, 24.
Appellee is not in a position to assail the act. Castillo
v. McConnico, 168 U. S. 680; Balt. Traction Co. v. Belt
R. R. Co., 151 U. S. 138. As construed by the state court
the statute is designed to secure proper facilities for the

HERNDON v. CHI., ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 137
218 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

accommodation of those passengers of each intersecting.
road whose destination is some point on the other. State
v. W. & St. L. & P. Ry. Co., 83 Missouri, 148; Logan v.
H. & St. J. R. R. Co., 77 Missouri, 666; State v. Railroad,
105 Mo. App. 212.
An act affecting different classes may be unconstitutional as to some and valid as to the rest. In such case
one of a class within the valid -provisions of the act cannot
set up the unconstitutionality of the provisions which
are inapplicable to him. Supervisors v. Stanley, 105 U. S.
311; In re Garnett, 141 U. S. 12; Clark v. Kansas City, 176
U. S. 118; Patterson v. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 176;
Cooley's Const. Lim., 250; Reduction Co. v. Sanitary
Works, 199 U. S. 318; Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 160.
Appellee cannot assail the act as it was in force prior to
its entrance into Missouri. Daggs v. Orient Ins. Co., 136
Missouri, 398; Orient Ins. Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 566;
Louis. & Nash. Rd. Co. v. Kentucky, 183 U. S. 512, 513.
The act as construed by the state courts is-valid.
N, Y., N. H. & H. R. R. v. New York, 165 U. S. 631;
Missouri v. Larabee Mills, 211 U. S. 621; Gladson v.
Minnesota, 166 U. S. 430; Cleveland &c. Ry. Co. v. Illinois,
177 U. S.522; Mich. Cent. R. R. v. Powers, 201 U. S. 291;
Pacific Express Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 348.
The bill contains no grounds for equitable interposition
as against Herndon. Cruikshank v. Bidwell, 176 U. S.
80; Pacific Exp. Co. v. Seibert, 44 Fed. Rep. 315. There
must be a real and not an imaginary danger of a multiplicity of suits. T. & B. R. R. Co. v. B. H. T. & W. Ry.
Co., 86 N. Y. 128; Arbuckle v. Blackburn, 191 U. S. 413,
415.
The bill is bad as it attempts to join two distinct proceedings. Street's Fed. Eq. Prac., § 440; Gaines v. Chew,
2 How. 642; Brown v. Guarantee Trust Co., 128 U. S.412.
This objection can be taken despite the fact that the
question was not raised specifically by the demurrer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellants.

218 U. S.

Hefner v. Northwestern Ins. Co., 123 U. S. 751; Emmons
v. Nat. Mut. B. & L. Assn., 68 C. C. A. 330.
The suit is one against the State within the prohibition
ao the Eleventh Amendment. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.
518, 519; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 149 et seq.
This is a suit merely to test the constitutionality of the
act by suit against the secretary of state, as such, and
cannot be maintained. Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 530;
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 156, 157; In re Ayres, 123 U. S.
443.
No case being made against the prosecuting attorney the
suit against the secretary of state cannot be maintained.
The act against removals is not repugnant to Art. III
of the Constitution. Doyle v. ContinentalIns. Co., 94 U. S.
535; Security Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Prewitt, 202 U. S.
246; Cable v. United States Life Ins. Co., 191 U. S. 288.
The guaranty in Art. III as to trial by jury, relates to
the trial of crimes. Nashville &c. Ry. v. Alabama, 128
U. S. 101.
The act does not violate the interstate commerce clause
of the Constitution. It specifically permits the transaction of interstate business by appellee even after'revocation of its license for violating the act. Waters-Pierce
Oil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 46; Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co. v.
Kentucky, 183 U. S. 512, 518.
Appellee is not denied the equal protection of the laws.
Ducat v. Chicago, 10 Wall. 415; Norfolk Ry. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 118.
As no domestic corporation can resort to the Federal
courts in cases in which jurisdiction is dependent upon
diversity of citizenship, the act instead of destroying
equality, effects it. Security Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
Prewitt, 202 U. S. 257.
The classification was not an illegal one. Board of
Education v. Illinois, 203 U. S. 561; PenIbina Mitim ('.
v. Penisylhattia, 125 IT. S. 188. 1,egislatioin dealiag with

HERNDON v. CHI., ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 139
218 U. S.

Argument for AppeOlants.

railroads as a class has been frequently upheld. Missouri
Ry. Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 209; Minneapolis Ry. Co. v.
Beckwith, 129 U. S. 29; MissouriPacific Ry. Co. v. Humes,
115 U. S. 512.
Appellee is not deprived by the revocation of its license
of its property without due process of law nor are its
privileges and immunities abridged. National Council
U. A. M. v. State'Council, 203 U. S. 163.
It is the enforcen-nt of a law Contravening the Fourteenth Amendment, not its enactment, which constitutes
deprivation without due process. Kaukauna Co. v. Green
Bay &c. Canal, 142 U. S. 269; Yesler v. Wash. Harbor
Line Coinmissioners, 146 U. S. 656.
The act abridges no immunity, denies no privilege
which appellee cpuld enjoy as a "citizen of the United
States," The constitutional provision invoked does not
apply to appellee. -Waters-Pierce. Oil Co. v. Texas, 177
U. S.45, 46; Cooley's Const Lim., 7th ed., 567; SlaughterHouse Cases, 16 Wall. 74 et seq.
Appellee and its predecessors secured no contract with
Missouri under the act of "1S70.
Contracts between
States and railroads are not created by this court by
implication in order that acts of state legislatures' may be
overturned. Williams v. Wingo, 177 U. S. 603; Jackson
v. Lamphire, 3 Pet. 289; Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S.
816; Central R. R. & Banking Co. v. Georgia, 92 U. S.
670.
The provisions of general law applicable to foreign railway corporations were not rendered immutable and petrified, by the license taken out in 1902, under the act of
1891. Schurz v. Cook, 148 U. S.407; Gregg v. Granby AM.
& S. Co., 164 Missouri, 627; Bienville Water Co. v. Mobile,
186 U. S. 218; Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S.816.
A mere license by a State is always revocabe. Doyle
v. Conti/ental Ii. (7o., 94 IT. S. 54); Barron v. Birtiside,
121 U. S. 199; Schurz v. C'nk, 148 UT. S. 409.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellee.

218 U,S.

The act of 1870 included no guaranty with reference
to the right to sue in the Federal courts. No question,
as to the State's right to prohibit the institution or removal by appellee of suits by reason of any other ground
of Federal jurisdiction, is presented by the bill, and this
investigation Will be restricted to the case made. Castillo
Y. McConnico, 168 U. S. 681; Supervisors v. Stanley, 105
U. S. 311; In re Garnett, 141 U. S. 12; Patterson v. Bark
Eudora, 190 U. S. 176; Reduction Co. v. Sanitary Works,
109 U. S.318; Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S.160.
Mr. M. A. Low, with whom Mr. E. C. Lindley was on
the brief, for appellee in No. 150:
The grants contained in the several acts of the legislature of the State of Missouri authorizing foreign railway
corporations to construct and operate railways are, when
accepted, express and binding contracts, the impairment
of which is a violation of the Federal Constitution. They
are not mere licenses revocable at will. New Jersey v.
Yard,' 95 U. S. 104; N. Y., L. E. & W. Ry. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 153 U. S. 628; Commonwealth v. M. & 0. R.
Co., 64 S. W. Rep. 451.
To add to the contract conditions imposing additional
burdens, or taking away substantial rights, is to impair
its obligation. State ex rel. v. Cook, 171 Missouri, 348.
To forbid a railway company to continue to transact
its business within the State would be to destroy its property, and it has no power to do that, so long as the com-'
pany continues to do business in the State in accordance
with the terms of the contract under which it was admitted.
American Smelting Co. v. Colorado, 204 U. S. 103. And
see So. Ill. & Mo. Bridge Co. v. Stone, 174 Missouri, 1;
Stevens v. Pratt, 101 Illinois, 217; Academy v. Sullivan,
116 Illinois, 375.
The act of the legislature of the State of Missouri providing for revoking the license, right and authority of a

HERNDON v. CHI., ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 141
218 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

non-resident railway company to do business in the State
whenever it resorts to a Federal court, impairs the obligations of the contract with the State authorizing appellee
to do business in the State, takes its property without
due process of law, and deprives it of the equal protection
of the laws.
If there be an impairment of the obligation, the amount
is not material; this court has power to redress the wrong.
Farringtonv. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679, 683; Commonwealth

v. M. & 0. R. Co., 64 S. W. Rep. 451. The State did not
in any statute admitting railroads to do business in the
State, reserve the right after the railway company had
accepted the grant to deprive it of its right to resort to
the jurisdiction of Federal courts. No state legislature
can deprive any person of the right to resort in a proper
case to the courts of the United States. Blake V. McClung, 172 U. S. 239, 255; Cowles v. Mercer County, 7

Wall. 118, and see as to right of a foreign corporation to
control its own business, N. Y., L. E. & W. R. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 153 U. S. 628; 'Railway Co. v. Whitton, 13

Wall. 270, 286.
The act of March 13, 1907, also denies equal protection
of the laws. By the invitation and permission of the State,
appellee is doing business therein, and is subject, to its

process at the instance of suitors, as fully as any domestic
corporation.. U'6ftr such circumstances it is entitled to
invoke the protection of this clause of the Federal Constitution. Northwestern National Life Ins. Co. v. Riggs,
203 U. S. 243, 248; G., C; f& S. F. R. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.

150, 154.
The statute cannot be justified on the ground of classification. Foreign railway corporations which have been
admitted to do business in the State upon an equality
with domestic corporations, cannot be denied the equal.
protection .of the laws of the State. St. Tammany Water
Works v. New Orleans Water TVork8, 120 U. S. 64, 71;

OCTOBER TERM; 1909.
Argument for Appellee.

218 U. S.

M. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26; State v.
Cadigan, 50 Atl. Rep. 1079, 1081; Cotting v. Kansas City
Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S.
123, 146; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31.
A State cannot give a preference in litigation, to its
own citizens over those of other States, Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S.239, 254-256, nor can it deny to a foreign railway corporation, authorized to operate railways
,in the State, access to the courts of the land when such
right is fully and freely given to every-person and to all
other foreign corporations, as well as to domestic corporations. Home Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445.
The act by reason of the enormous penalties imposed
for an unsuccessful effort to test its validity, as well as
by reason of the arbitrary power conferred upon the
secretary of state, without a hearing, to revoke the license
of appellee to do business within the State, takes its
property without due process of law.
Due process of law means law in the regular course of
administration through courts of justice,' Kent, Coin., 13.
It requires notice, hearing and judgment, Bertholf v.
O'Reilly, 74 N. Y. 519; Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S.
373, 385.
The State cannot give its secretary of state purely
personal and arbitrary power to take the property of a
person or corpotation, or to forfeit its right to use that
property. Wynehamer v. People, 13 N. Y. 378, 392;
Hagar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S.701, 708.
Cases holding that the licenses of certain transitory
corporations, licensed, temporarily, to do business in a
State, may be revoked on account of the removal of cases
from state to Federal courts, can be distinguished. Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 343.
The act requiring all passenger trains to stop at the
junction points is an unwarranted interference with interstate commerce. Illinois Cent. R. Co. v. Illinois, 163 U. S.

HERNDON v. CHI., ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 143
21, U. S.

Argument for Appellec.

142; Gladson v. Minnesota, 166 tJ. S. 427; L. S. & M. S.
Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285; Cleveland, C., C. & St. L.
Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514.
After all local conditions have been reasonably provided for, railways may rightfully adopt special provisions
for through traffic, and legislative interference therewith
is an unreasonable and unlawful interference with interstate commerce. Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v.
Illinois, 177 U. S. 514; Mississippi R. R. Com. v. Illinois
Cent. R. Co., 203 U. S. 335; Atlantic Coast Line v. Wharton,
207 U. S.328.
This statute cannot be upheld as a reasonable exercise
of the police power in regard to safe passage of the trains
of one company across the railroad of another, as its
manifest purpose is to provide for the transfer of passengers, baggage, mails and express freight at junction
points.
The bill is not multifarious. Graves v. Ashburn, 215
U. S. 331; Campbell v. Mackey, 1 Mylne & Craig, 603,
617.
The objection of multifariousness comes too late. Multifariousness is a technical objection, Brown v. Guarantee
Trust Co., 128 U. S. 403, 412, which must be raised, if
at all, at the first opportunity, and if hot so presented,
it is waived. When it appears on the face of the bill, the
objection should be raised by special demurrer. Billings
v. Mann, 156 Massachusetts, 203, 205; 1 Street's Fed.
Eq. Pr., § 936; Daniel's Chanc. Pl. & Pr., 6th Am. ed.,
586, note 5; Jackson v. Glos, 144 Illinois, 21.
While the court may, sua sponte, raise the objection of
multifariousness, even on appeal, there seems to be no
case in which it has been done. Oliver v. Piatt, 3 How.
332, 496.
Mr. James P. Gilmore and Mr. GardinerLathrop, with
whom Mr. Robert Dunlap and Mr. Thomas R. Morrow

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellee.

218 U. S.

were on the brief, for appellee in No. 151, argued simultaneously herewith:
The act in questibn is unconstitutional in that it impairs the obligation of a contract between the State of
Missouri and the appellee, which had, prior to its passage, complied with the laws of that State relating to
the qualification by foreign corporations to do business
therein and which had received license or franchise therefor. State ex rel. v. Cook, 171 Missouri, 348; Dartmouth
College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518; American Smelting &
Refining Co. v. Colorado, 204 U. S. 103; and see the recently decided cases by this court of Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Pullman Company v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 56; and also Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania, 153 U. S. 628; Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court, 3 How.
133.
A contract created by a charter cannot be impaired
during the life of the charter grant. Attorney General v.
Bank, 4 Jones Fq. (N. C.) 287; Wendover v. City, 15 B.
Monroe (Ky.), 258; Commonwealth v. Mobile & Ohio R. R.
Co. (Ky.), 64 S. W. Rep. 451; Bank v. knoop, 16 How.
369.
Similar statutes imposing burdens on foreign corporations were held unconstitutional in Seaboard Railway Co.
,"v. Railroad Commission, 155 Fed. Rep. 792; Railway Co.
v. Ludwig, 156 Fed. Rep. 152; Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Julien,. 169 Fed. Rep. 166; Railroad Co. v. Cross,
171 Fed. Rep. 480.
The act deprives appellee of its property without due
process of law. As the appellee acquired its railroad in
the State of Missouri, with privileges and franchises appurtenant thereto, which included the right to use the
same in the transportation of persons and property under
the act of i870, these rights and franchises appurtenant
to the property became vested, and the State could not
thereafter under the act of 1907 impose an arbitrary or

HERNDON v. CHI., ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 145
218 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

unreasonable condition upon the further exercise of such
rights. After the rights and privileges had become vested,
the State could only impose such reasonable police regulations concerning the use of the property and the conduct
of the business as would be necessary to protbct the public
in general. Society for Savings v. Coyte, 6 Wall. 594;
Hamilton County v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 632; California
v. Railroad Co., 127 U. S. 1; State ex rel. v. Ackerman, 51
Ohio St. 163; Life Insurance Co. v. County, 28 Montana,
484; State v. "Railroad, 43 Minnesota, 17; Wilmington
Railroad v. Reid, 13 Wall. 264; Railroad Company v.
Hewes, 183 U. S. 66. See also Railway Co. v. Sullivan,
173 Fed. Rep. 556.
Rights and privileges which attach to the use of the
property, .when they become vested under the law of the
State, are property, rights which -cannot be taken away
without compensation by the State. Gulf & S. I. R. R.
Co. v. Hewes, 183 U. S. 77; Monongahela &c. Co. v, United
States, 148 U. S. 312; Wilcox v. Cons. G& Co., 212 U. S.
22, 44; Brunswick & T. Water Dist. Co. v. Maine Water
Co., 59 Atl. Rep. 537; Garfield v. Goldeby, 211 U. S. 249,
262.
The action of the secretary of state in cancelling the
permit and forfeiting rights is unrestricted without any
provision to protest against his decision in the first instance, or to review it after it has been made. Hagar v.
Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701; Murray's Lessees v.
Lancow, 18 How. 272; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366;
Scott v. McNeal, 154 VJ. S. 34; Barbier v. Connolly, 113
U. S. 27; YickWo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; In re Quong
Wo, 13 Fed. Rep. 229; In re Wo Lee, 26 Fed. Rep. 471;
Barthet v. City, 24 Fed. Rep. 563.
The action of the secretary of state is also made conclusive, which, under the circumstances of this case, cannot be permitted. It is not even subject to review.in
subsequent prosecutions for penalties. .Railway Co. v.
VOL. ccxvITT-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; Felix v. Wallace County, 62
Kansas, 832; Railway Co. v. Simmonson, 64 Kansas, 802;
Railway Co. v. Payne, 33 Arkansas, 816; Mayer v. Verlandi, 39 Minnesota, 438.
The penalty provisions of the statute in question are
so excessive and unreasonable that they violate the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States and result in depriving appellee of its property
without due process of law. Ex parte Young, 209 U. S.
123.
The Prewitt Case, 202 U. S. 246, and other cases can be
distinguished. Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20 Wali. 445;
Bigelow v. Nickerson, 70 Fed. Rep. 113; Reimers v. Seatco
Mfg. Co., 70 Fed. Rep. 573.
The right of a State to impose conditions upon foreign
corporations doing business therein is not unlimited. Insurance Co. v. French, 18 How. 404; Waters-Pierce Oil
Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 28; Hammond Packing Co. v. Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322; American Refining & Smelting Co.
v. Colorado, supra, also distinguished.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railway Company in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Missouri to enjoin the execution of certain provisions of the acts of the
legislature of the State of Missouri, as violative of complainant's rights under the Federal Constitution. The
bill was filed against Harry T. Herndon, prosecuting attorney of Clinton County, Missouri, and John E. Swanger,
secretary of state of the State of Missouri.
The bill is very lengthy, and as the decision of the court
was made upon demurrer to it, it will be necessary to call
attention to some of its pertinent allegations. Complainant avers that it is a duly organized corporation of the

HERNDON v. CHI., ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 1.47
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

State of Illinois, operating a railroad in certain States,
among others, in the State of Missouri, and is engaged in
both state and interstate commerce. It sets forth in detail the acts of the State of Missouri authorizing the consolidation, extension and operation of the railroads under
which it claims to have acquired its system of railroads in
that State. It avers that it duly filed with the secretary
of state of the State of Missouri a copy of its charter, in
compliance with the laws of the State, and received a
certificate, November 22, 1902, in all respects in compliance with the laws of the State, authorizing the complainant to carry on business in said State for the term
ending April 3, 1903, which certificate is in full force, never
having been cancelled or withdrawn.
The bill sets forth the act of March 19, 1907, amending § 1075 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, -requiring railroad companies to perform certain duties, among
others to stop passenger *trains at the junction or intersecting points of other railroads. As that amended section
is one of the acts complained of it is set fbrth in. the margin. 1
SEc. 1075. Every railroad corporation in this State which now is,
or may hereafter be, engaged in the transportation of persons or property, from one point in this State to another point in this State, shall
giveo public notice of the regular time of starting and running its cars,
and shall furnish sufficient accommodations for the transportation of
all such passengers, baggage, mails and express freight as shall, within
a reasonable time previous thereto, be offered for transportation at the
place of starting, at the junctions of other railroads, and at the junction of branch railroads of the same system as herein defined, carrying
passengers, and at the several stopping places; and shall, at all crossings and intersections of other railroads, where such other railroad and
the railroad crossing the same are now, or may hereafter be made upon
the same grade, and the character of the land at such crossing or intersection will admit of the same, erect, build, and maintain, either
jointly with the railroad company whose road is crossed, or separately
by each railroad company, a depot or passenger house and waiting
room or rooms sufficient to comfortably accommodate all passengers

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

Concerning this section, and the requirement to stop
trains at junction points, the bill sets out that the complainant has traffic rights over the Chicago, Burlington
and Quincy Railway track between Cameron Junction
and Kansas City; that the town of Lathrop is a town of
about one thousand inhabitants, situated in Clinton
County, Missouri, between Cameron Junction and Kansas
City on said line of railway; that complainant, for the
purpose of carrying on its business as a common carrier,
at the said station of Lathrop stops a morning and evening passenger train each way, two west bound, and two
east bound, and, in addition thereto, stops two passenger
trains, one east bound and one west bound, which are
local freight trains regularly carrying passengers. Complainant further sets forth that it runs a fast through
passenger train between Chicago, Fort Worth,,and Dallas, Texas, by means of connecting carriers in the State of
awaiting the arrival and departure of trains at such junction, or railroad crossing, and shall keep such depot or passenger house or rooms
warm, lighted and open to the ingress and egress of all passengers for a
reasonable time before the arrival and until after the departure of all
trains carrying passengers on said railroad or railroads; and they are
hereby required to stop all trains carrying passengers at the junction
or intersection of other railroads, and they are further required to receive all passengers and baggage for, and to stop, on a flag or signal, all
trains carrying passengers, at the junction 'of all branch railroads of
the same system, which said branch railroads are eighteen miles or
more in length and at the terminus of which is located any county
seat town of any county in this State a sufficient length of time to allow the transfer of passenigcrs, personal baggage, mails and express
freight from the trains of railroads so connecting or intersecting; or
'they may mutually arrange for the transportation of such persons and
property over both roads without change of cars; and they shall be
compelled to receive all passengers and freight from. such connecting,
intersecting, or branch roads whenever the same shall be delivered to
them. And every railroad company or corporation owning, operating
or leasing any railroad.in this State shall keep all its depots, stations,
.. or passenger houses, whether located at the crossing or intersection of

HERNDON v. CHI., ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 149
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Texas, and a fast through passenger train between Chicago
and the Pacific coast by means of connecting carriers
beyond the Territory. of Oklahoma, neither of which stop
at the station of Lathrop to take on or let off passengers;
that said trains which do not stop at Lathrop are immediately preceded by trains that do stop there, and which
are maintained for the purpose of collecting passengersfrom local stations and conveying them to nearby stations on the line of the road of the complainant, where
both of said fast through trains do stop for the purpose of

taking on and letting off passengers.
The complainant further avers that the tracks of the
complainant cross and intersect with the tracks of the

Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company at the
said station of Lathrop; that the Atchison, Topeka and
Santa Fe Railway runs two trains each way every day, all
of which stop at the station of Lathrop, and which make
close and direct connection with the trains which the
other roads or elsewhere, warm, lighted and open to the ingress and
egress of all passengers a reasonable time before the arrival and until
after the departure of all passenger trains on said railroad which stop
or receive or discharge passengers at such depots, stations .or passenger
houses. Every railroad corporation or company which shall fail, ieglect or refuse to comply with any or either one of the provisions of this
section from and aifter the time the sam shall become a law, shall, for
each day said raih'oad corporation or company refuses, neglects or
fails to comply therewith, shall forfeit and pay the sum of twentyfive dollars, which may be recovered in the name of the State of Missouri, to the use of the school find of the county wherein said crossing,
depot, station, passenger house or branch railroad is located; and it
shall be the duty of the prosecuting attorney to prosecute for a recovcry of the same. The term "rallroad corporations," as used in this
act, shall include the term "railANy company and railway corpora-,
tion."
SEc. 2. Inasmuch as the train service is very inconvenient and unsatisfactory'in some places constitutes an emergency within the meaning of the constitution; therefore, This act shall take effect and be in
J-orce Pronm and after its passa'ge.

O(CTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

complainant stops at the station of Lathrop; that except
under unusual circumstances passengers seldom find it
convenient to change from the complainant's railway to
that of the Atchison, Topeka' and Santa Fe line at the
station of Lathrop. Complainant avers that to stop the
through interstate trains running between Chicago, Fort
Worth and Dallas, Texas, and between Chicago. and the
Pacific coast would be a direct, unreasonable and unwarrantable interference with its interstate business, and that
said through trains are maintained fpr and are essential
to the purpose of transporting interstate passenger traffic,
and for the carriage of the United States mails. The
complainant avers that the facilities for the interchange
of passengers at the station of Lathrop are amply sufficient to accommodate the public, and. that the service is
both convenient and satisfactory to the public. The bill
further avers that if the said through trains are required
to stop at all junctions with other railways and there
interchange passengers with such road, their usefulness
as through trains will be destroyed, and the interstate"
business of the complainant interfered with to an unwarranted extent without any corresponding benefit to the
traveling public; that the law of March 19, 1907, as applied to said trains which do not stop at the station of
Lathrop, is a serious burden upon interstate commerce so
conducted by said trains, and an unlawful and unreasonable interference therewith, and in violation of the Constitution of the United States and the acts of Congress
regulating commerce. Complainant avers that the act
of March 19, 1907, requiring trains carrying passengers
to stop at the junction, or intersections of other roads for
the purpose of interchanging passengers and baggage at
such junction points, was not passed in the exercise of the
police power of the State of Missouri.to protect the traveling public, but solely for the purpose of increasing traveling facilities, ,nd to provide a more convenient and satis-

HERNDON v. CHI., ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 151

218 u.S.

Opinion of the Court.

factory train service at such junction points. Complainant
avers that it installed an interlocking plant and an automatic signal device at the intersection with the tracks of
the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway at the station
of Lathrop, and thereby provided an absolutely safe
method for its through trains to pass over the tracks of
the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe road without stop-'
ping. The bill avers, that Harry T. Herndon, as prosecuting attorney for the county of Clinton, Missouri, threatens
to and will, unless enjoined, put in motion the special
provisions of the act of March 19, 1907, for the enforcement of penalties of $25 per day since July 21, 1907,
which penalties in a short time would amount to many
thousands of dollars.
Complainant further avers that defendant John E.
Swanger, secretary of state of the State of Missouri, under
and by authority of said act of the State of Missouri, approved March 13, 1907, concerning the bringing of cases
by doreign corporations in the Federal courts, which act
is set forth in the margin I threatens to, and will, unless
1 Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as
follows:
SEC. 1. If any foreign or non-resident railway corporation of what-

ever kind, incorporated, created and existing under the laws of any
other State, Territory or country, and doing business as a carrier of
freight or passengers from one point in this State, to another point in
this State, under the laws of this State, regulating or authorizing the
licensing of, or the issuing of a permit or a certificate of authority to,
or suffering or allowing any such corporatioA to enter or to do business
in this State, shall, without the c )nsent of the other party, in writing,
to any suit or proceeding brought by or against it in any court of this
State, remove said suit or proceeding to any Federal court, or shall institute any suit or proceeding against any citizen of this State in. any
Federal court, the license, permit, certificate of authority and all right
of such corporation and its agents to carry passengers or freight from
one point in this State to another point in this State shall forthwith
be revoked by the secretary of state, and its right to (to such business
shall cease, and the secretary of state shall publish such revocation in

OCTOBER TERM, i909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

enjoined, cancel the complainant's certificate of the right
to do business in the State of Missouri, and will take other
steps necessary to revoke the license and permit as provided in the abt of March 13, 1907, should the complainant file this, its bill of complaint, in the United States
Circuit Court, and because of any attempt complainant
some newspaper of large and general circulation in the State, -and such
corporation shall not again be authorized or permitted. to carry passengers or freight from one point in this State to another point in this
State, or to do business as a carrier of passengers or freight of any
kind from one point in this State to another point in this State at any
time within five years from the date of such revocation or the cessation
of such right. But the revocation of such license, permit, right, certificate of authority, or the cessation of such right, shall not be deemed
to prohibit or prevent such corporation from carrying passengers or
freight from a point within this State to a point without this State, or
from a point without this State to a point within this State, or from
making what are known as interstate shipments and transportation.
Snc. 2. If any corporation included in the provisions of this act
shall tarry, or attempt to carry, or hold itself out to carry passengers
or freight of any kind from one point in the State to another without
a license, permit or certificate of authority therefor first had and obtained from the State of Missouri-to be issued by the secretary of
state-or after its license, permit, right or certificate of authority to
carry passengers or freight of any kind from one point in this State to
another point in this State, shall have been revoked or ceased, as provided for by the preceding section of this act, it shall forfeit and pay
to the State of Missouri for, each offense'a penalty of not less than two
thousand dollars nor more than ten tholsand dollars, suit to be brought
therefdr in.
any court of competent jurisdiction by the attorney general or the prosecuting attorney of any county in the State in which
such offense shall have been committed, and such offense shall be
dee.ized to have been committed either in the county where such transportation originated or in the county where it terminated. And the
governor "May,whenever he shall deem it necessary, appoint special
counsel to assist the attorney general or any prosecuting attorney to
enforce or carry out the provisions of this act.
SEc. 3. All acts or parts of acts in conflict herewith are, in so far as
they are In conflict, hereby repealed.
Approved March 13, 1907.
[Laws of Missouri of W07, p. 174.]

HERNDON v. C1JI., ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 153
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

may make to r~move any case ,in a Federal court from any
state court of the State of Missouri, and to bring any case
in any Federal court against a citizen of the State of
Missouri. The bill then sets out the coming of the complainant into the State of Missouri in accordance with
the laws of the State, that it acquired property therein,
.which included many miles of railroad, depots, station-grounds, shops and warehouses, terminals, rolling stock
and other equipment necessary to the maintenance and
operation of its line located in the State of Missouri and
at an assessed value of $3,252,775. The bill sets out the
various particulars wherein it is contended that the act of,
March 13, 1907, is void- under the Constitution of the
United States, and the bill avers that if the complainant
should attempt to remove into the Federal courts any
case commenced in the state courts of Missouri, or should
commence proceedings in any Federal court against a
,citizen of the State of Missouri, the defendant, as secretary of state of the State of Missouri, would deny the
right of complainant to do business in the State of Missouri, and if the complainant attempted to carry on the
same it would be subject to forfeitand to pay to the State
ofMissouri a penalty of not less than $2,000 or more han
$10,000, to be recovered in any court in the State having
jurisdiction. An injunction was prayed against the defendant Harry T. Herndon as prosecuting attorney of the
county of Clinton, Missouri, requiring him to refrain from
enforcing, or attempting to enforce, the provisions of the
act of March 19, 1907, so far as it relates to the stopping
of the trains aforesaid, at the crossing of the Atchison,
Topeka and Santa Fe Railway at the station of Lathrop,
Clinton County, Missouri, and from enforcing, or attempting to enforce, the penalties of the statute; and that the
defendant John E. Swanger, secretary of state of the State
of Missouri, be restrained.from enforcing, or attempting
to enforce, the provisions of the act. of March 13, .1907,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

providing for the revocation and cancelling of the complainant's charter because of the removal of cases from a
state to a Federal court, or bringing suit in a Federal
court against any citizen of the State of Missouri.
A demurrer was filed to the bill by both of the defendants, the same wam overruled, and a final decree was
entered enjoining the enforcement of the act of March 13,
1907, because of the beginning of the suits, or the removal
of cases to Federal cou.rts, and enjoining the enforcement
of the act of March 19, 1907, so far as it relates to the
complainant's said trains passing through Lathrop, or the
stopping of such trains at the station of Lathrop, and enjoined the defendant prosecuting attorney of Clinton
County, Missouri, from enforcing, or attempting to enforce, the provisions of said act as to stopping said trains,
or enforcing the penalties provided for in that act for the
failure to comply with the provisions thereof.
It is evident from the foregoing statement that the
constitutional questions involved in this case are: First,
whether under the act of March 19, 1907, the complainant
can be compelled to stop its through trains, described in
the bill, at the station of Lathrop, and whether such a
statute, so far as it relates to interstate commerce trains,
is .void as an attempt to regulate interstate commerce,
and imposes a burden thereon by state legislation. And,
secondly, under the act of March 13, 1907, can the license
and right of the complainant to do business in the State
of Missouri be lawfully revoked because it has begun a
suit, or may remove a suit, from a state court to a Federal
court, complainant being a corporation organized in another State.
Before considering these questions we will notice some
of the objections to the decree below made by the learned
counsel for the State. It is asserted that the bill is multifarious, and that there is no right to join the defendants,
the prosecuting attorney and secretary of state in the

HERNDON v. CHI., ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 155
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

same bill. But no objection to such joinder of the parties
was specially taken, and it is well settled that an objection of this character must be promptly made. The
proper way to raise such question is by special demurrer
specifically directed to the objection. Street Fed. Equity
Practice, vol. 1, §936. It is true -that a court may itself
take the objection in extreme cases, when that course is*
essential to the necessary and proper administration of
justice. But, as laid down in Oliver v. Piatt, 3 How. 333,
412 Mr. Justice Story, speaking for the court, says, " if
the court can get to a final decree without serious embarrassment, it will do so," and, continues the learned justice:
"A fortiori, an appellate court would scarcely entertain
the objection, if itwas not forced upon it by a moral necessity." No such case exists here. Certainly, in the
absence of a specific objection, there is no difficulty in
hearing at the same time the case against the secretary of
state and the prosecuting attorney. The bringing of the
suit against the prosecuting attorney in the Federal court,
if the statute of March 19, 1907, is to be carried out, will
forfeit the complainant's right to do business within the
State, and we see no reason why the right to declare such
forfeiture may not be considered with the case against the
prosecuting attorney. We find no merit in the objection
of multifariousness.
As to the objection that the suit is one against the State,
we think no discussion is necessary, and content ourselves
with a reference to the late cases in this court to that
point. Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Andrews, 216 U. S. 165,

The act of March 19, 1907, requiring the stopping of
certain trains, upon its face seems to require the stoppage'
of all passenger trains at the junction or 'ipntersection of
other roads. But it is contended by counsel for the State
that this statute is but an amendment of former statutes,
and that the requirement to stop trains carrying pas-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

sengers, as qualified by the subsequent language of the
act, means to stop such trains for a sufficient length of
time to allow the transfer of passengers, personal baggage,
mails and express from the trains of the roads connecting
or intersecting to the trains of the other road, and that,
therefore, the act applies only to the operation of trains
actually carrying such passengers, personal baggage, mails
and express as are destined for points on the connecting
road, and does not require the stoppage of all trains carrying passengers, as is set out in the bill. And this conclusion, it is said, must necessarily follow because "of the
construction given to the statute prior to its amendment
on March 19, 1907. State ex rel. v. The W. St. L. & P.
Ry. Co., 83 Missouri; 148; Logan v. H. & St. J. R. R.
Co., 77 Missouri, 666; State ex rel. v. Railroad, 105 Mo.
App. 212.
The contention is that the amendment of 1907 has only
the effect to bring into the statute certain provisions as
to branch railroads. Assuming this to be a correct interpretation of this statute, and that it only requires 'the
stoppage of trains at Lathrop carrying passengers destined
for points on the intersecting railroad, or to take up passengers there destined for points on complainant's road,
the question remains, Would the requirement of the act of
March 19, 1907, to stop the through trains described in
the bill, for such purpose and under the circumstances
set f~grth, be an unlawful attempt to regulate interstate
commerce and impose an unlawful burden thereon?
The extent of the right to control through interstate
transportation of passengers by state legislation, or under
orders of a commission authorized by the State, has been
recently before this court. Miss. R. R. Co. v. Illinois
Central R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 335; Atlantic Coast Line Co.
v. iVharton, 207 U. S. 328.
The principle to be deduced from these cases is, that
where a railroad company has already provided ample

HERNDON v. CHI., ROCK ISLAND & PAC. RY. 157
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

facilities for the adequate accommodation of the traveling public such as may be proper and reasonable at any
given point, and operates interstate commerce trains,
carrying passengers through the same places, at which
such interstate trains do not stop, a state regulation which
requires the stopping of such interstate trains, in addition
to ample facilities already provided, to the detriment
and hindrance of interstate traffic, is an unlawful regulation and burden upon interstate commerce. Applying the
principles thus settled and taking the allegations of the
bill as true, which we must do in view of the fact that the
case was decided upon demurrer, 'we think that construing the statute so as to require the stoppage of the through
trains wheftever any persons might seek to avail themselves thereof, in order to permit a transfer of passengers
from one road to the other upon such trains, would be an
unnecessary and unlawful burden upon interstate traffic.
The averment of the bill is that the business is already
amply provided for in the other trains of the company
and the connecting road, and the serious detriment to the
interstate carrying business from the requirement to stop
the through trains described for the purpose of permitting
such transfers, is fully set forth in the bill, and admitted
by the demurrer.
It is true that the bill avers that few persons require
transfer at such connecting point, but if passengers have
the right under this statute to require the stoppage of
such through trains" at Lathrop whenever they may desire
to avail themselves of such privilege, serious inconvenience would result to the interstate traffic in question.
It is to be remembered that this statute is not of that
class passed in the exercise of the police power of the
State for the promotion of the public safety and requiring the stoppage of trains by one railroad before crossing
the tracks of another railroad-this statute, as its second
section shows, was passed for the purpose of providing

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

greater facilities of travel, and not for the protection of
life and limb. We therefore reach the conclusion that
the Circuit Court did not err in granting the injunction so far as it relates to the enforcement of the act of
March 19, 1907, relating to the stoppage of the interstate commerce trains at the station at Lathrop.
As to the validity of the act of March 13, 1907, forfeiting the right of the company to do business in the State
of Missouri, and subjecting it to penalties in case it should
bring a suit in the Federal courts, or remove one from the
state courts to the Federal courts, but little need be said.
This is so because of the cases decided at this term involving contentions kindred to the one made in this case.
See Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56; Ludwig v. Western Union
Tel Co., 216 U. S. 146; Southern Railway Co. v. Green,
216 U. S. 400.
Applying the principles announced in those cases, it is
evident that the act in controversy cannot stand in view
of the provisions of the Constitution of the United States.
Moreover, this is not a case where the State has undertaken to prevent the coming of the corporation into its
borders for the purpose of carrying on business. The
corporation was within the State, complying with its
laws, and had acquired, under the sanction of the State,
a large amount of property within its borders, and thus
had become a person within the State within the meaning
of the Constitution, and entitled to its protection. Under
the statute in controversy a domestic railroad company
might bring an action in the Federal court, or in a proper
case remove one thereto, without being subject to the
forfeiture of its right to do business, or to the imposition
of penalties provided for in the act. In all the cases in
this court, discussing the right of the States to exclude
foreign corporations, and to prevent them from removing cases to the Federal courts, it has been conceded that

ROACH v.. ATCHISON, T. & SANTA FE RY. CO.
218 U. S.

159

Counsel for Parties.

while the right to do local business within the State may
not have been derived from the Federal Constitution, the
right to resort to the Federal courts is a creation of the
Constitution of the United States and the statutes passed
in pursuance thereof.
It is enough now to say that within the principles decided at this term, in the cases cited above, the act of
March 13, 1907, as applied to the complainant railroad
company, in view of the admitted facts set out in the bill
in this case, is unconstitutional and void. We find no
error in the decree granted in the Circuit Court, and the
same is affirmed.

Apirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

concurs in the result.

ROACH, SECRETARY OF STATE OF THE STATE
OF MISSOURI, v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA AND
SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY.'
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 151.

Argued April 14, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.

Decided on the authority of the preceding case.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. James T. Blair, with whom Mr. Elliott W. Major,
'Original docket title Swanger, Secretary of State, etc.,

i. Atchison,

Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Company; on December 9, 1909, ll)ach,

Secretary of State, was substituted as plaintiff in error.

