.264

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellant.

218 U. S.

THE IRA M. HEDGES.1
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 18.

Argued October 27, 1910.-Decided November 7, 1910.

Where the decree of the lower court is founded on denial of jurisdiction of the Admiralty Court, this court has jurisdiction of the appeal.
The right to contribution is not a mere incident of a form of procedure,
but it belongs to the substantive law of the admiralty.
The right to contribution in the admiralty cannot be taken away because the claim is asserted against one of those causing the damage
at common law and put into judgment.
Where two vessels cause an injury to a third the fact that the injured
party obtains judgment against the owners of one of the vessels in
fault does not deprive th6 admiralty of jurisdiction of a suit brought
by those against whom the judgment is entered against the other
vessel to compel contribution.
Quxre as to what, if anything, such judgment conclusively establishes.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Ad-

miralty Court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William S. Montgomery, with whom Mr. Geo. H.
Emerson was on the brief, for appellant:
There is no method under the New York Code by which
one joint tort-feasor, defendant in an action, can implead
another joint tort-feasor as a defendant;' nor, if thefe
were, could libellant have compelled the payment by the
claimant in the courts of New York of any part of a joint
judgment. Gittleman v. Feltman, 191 N. Y. 205, does not
hold that a joint tort-feasor defendant can implead .another joint tort-feasor as defendant. All it holds is that a
- Docket title, No. 18, Lehigh Valley Railroad Company v. Cornell
Steamboat Company, Claimant of Steam-tug Ira M. Hodges.

THE IRA M. HEDGES.
218 U.S.

Argument for Appellant.

plaintiff may so amend his pleadings as to bring in another tort-feasor as defendant: an entirely different proposition- from one joint tort-feasor impleading another as
defendant. The rule that one joint tort-feasor cannot
implead another as defendant has been settled for many
years in New York. Chapman v. Forbes, 123 N. Y. 532;
Bauer v. Dewe4, 166 N. Y. 402.
The fact that one of the parties injured by the collision
elected to proceed at common law cannot defeat the
libellant's right to contribution-a right recognized by
the admiralty law, and brought into existence the very
moment the wrong is committed.
There can be no doubt that the right of contribution
exists in admiralty. The Mariska, 107 Fed. Rep. 991,
reversing 100 Fed. Rep. 500.
As the court there said, the Fifty-ninth Rule did not
create the right of contribution, but merely recognized
the right as preexisting, and established a means by which
it could be easily enforced. The right to enforce contribution does not fail merely because one of the. guilty
vessels is out of the jurisdiction. It is not dependent
upon the accident of locality, nor should it be dependent
upon ' the mere fact that one of the parties sees fit to
pursue the common law remedy.
The right is not given by the form of remedy pursued,
but is created by the wrong, and being of admiralty
origin may be, and should be, recognized in admiralty so
long as it remains unsatisfied. Erie R. R. Co. v. Erie
Transp. Co., 204 U. S. 220, 225.
The lower court meets these decisions by saying that
they involve cases originally arising in admiralty, and
holds that by one of the parties (the innocent one, of
course) proceeding at common law, this right given by
the admiralty can be defeated, but cannot be sustained.
If the right of contribution exists at all, it exists from the
very moment of the collision, being brought into exist-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellee.

218 U. S.

ence by the collision, and it cannot be defeated or impaired simply because one of the parties elects to proceed
in the common law forum.
This is not a case where the libellant is estopped by its
election of the remedy, because it had nothing to say with
regard to what remedy should be pursued. It might have
been different had the Hedges sued at common law for
damages incident to a collision. Then the Hedges would
have taken the chances of contributory negligence barring
a recovery, and the final judgment would then have been
res adjudicataas to the Hedges' negligence.
The judgment in the common law action was not res
adjudicata. Erie R. R. Co. v. Erie Transp. Co., 204
U. S. 220; and see The Juniata,93 U. S. 337. If the right
of contribution in admiralty can be defeated by the
innocent party selecting his forum, then grave injustice
may be done, something that admiralty, like equity,
abhors. The saving to the suitor of the common law
remedy does not mean that under its guise a gross injustice may be done, and that admiralty shall be deprived of enforcing a right which it recognizes; and see
also Hughes on Admiralty, 276; The North Star,, 106 U. S..
17, 20. As to the jurisdictional question, see Hughes on
Admiralty, 285.
Mr. J. Parker Kirlin, with whom Mr. Amos Van Etten
was on the brief, for appellee:
The cause of action stated in the libel did not give rise
to a maritime lien, and, accordingly, afforded no foundation for a proceeding in rem against 'the tug.
The action was manifestly one to recover indemnity
for the amount of the judgment for damages, costs and
interest, and for the amount spent by the libellant in the
defense of an action at law.
Though the claim involved in the action at law was
maritime in the sense that it could have been sued on in

THE IRA M. HEDGES.
218 U.S.

Argument for Appellee.

admiralty, yet it was an action in tort in respect of which
the plaintiff was entitled to pursue his remedy at law.
When the claim became merged in the judgment, and
extinguished by payment, it lost its maritime character.
Brinsmead v. Narrison, L. R. 7 C. P. 190.
The libel did not state a cause of action in rem against
the tug, and hence the libel should have been dismissed
on this ground.
Whether the libellant might proceed in a personal action
in admiralty for contribution was not before the District
Judge, even if the District Judge was right in treating the
libel as one filed for contribution to collision damage, the
claim was properly dismissed.
The only appeal by the libellant should be presented to
the Court of Appeals and not to this court.
The District Judge properly decided that as the libellant
was sued at law, he could not come into admiralty for
contribution, at least, until he had satisfied the court that
he was withou~t remedy elsewhere. N. Y. Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 452,.723; and see Gittleman v. Feltman, 191 N. Y. 205,
which governs this case. Chapman v. Forbes, 123 N. Y.
532, and Bauer v. Dewey, 166 N. Y. 402, on which the
appellant relies, are distinguishable. The libellant having neglected to have its alleged right of exoneration or
contribution litigated and determined in the original
action by not bringing appellee in as a co-defendant,
cannot escape the consequences of its inaction by attempting to continue the litigation in a different forum.
It does not appear that the railroad company exhausted
the usual remedies before, seeking indemnity or contribution in admiralty. Pollock on Torts, 6th ed.,. 195.
Contribution can be enforced when it is by inference of
law only. See Ankeny v. Moffett, 37 Minnesota, 109;
Armstrong County v. 'Clarion County, 66 Pa. St. 218;
Horbach's Admr. v. Elder, 18 Pa. St. 33; Nickerson v.
Wheeler, 118 Massachusetts, 295; Herr v. Barber, .2

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellee.

218 U.S.

Mackey, 545; Johnson v. Torpy, 35 Nebraska, 604;
Bank v. Avery Co., 69 Nebraska, 329; The Hudson, 15
Fed. Rep. 162; Bailey v. Bassing, 28 Connecticut, 455;
Ches. & Ohio Canal Co. v. County, 57 Maryland, 201;
Acheson v. Miller, 2 Ohio St. 203; Upham *v.Dickinson,
38 Michigan, 338; Eaton &.Prince Co. v. Trust Co., 123
Mo. App. 131; Andrews v. Murray, 33 Barb. 354; Gilbert
v. Finch, 173 N. Y. 455; Kolb v. National Surety Co., 176
N. Y. 233; Union Stock Yards v. Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy Ry., 196 U. S. 217, do not hold that contribution
cannot be recovered outside of admiralty on the allegations of the libel in this case.
The libellant is not entitled to recover a contribution
in admiralty in. respect of a common law judgment.
Though the plaintiff might originally -have proceeded
against the Slatington or the Hedges, or both, in admiralty,
it had an undoubted right to proceed at law, and the railroad company has no ground of complaint because the consequences of the election exercised by the plaintiff may be
different from those which would have .followed if the
plaintiff had elected to proceed in another forum. Schoonmaker v. Gilmore, 102 U. S. 118- The Mariska, 107 Fed.
Rep. 989; Erie R. R. Co. v. Erie Transp. Co., 204 U. S.
220; The Juniata, 93 U. S. 337, 340, support this view.
Under the maritime law damage by collision is a common
loss upon all vessels whose faults have contributed to the
damage. Admiralty Rule 59, recognizing this doctrine,
provided a way for bringing all vessels charged with fault
before the court, so that the rights and liabilities of all
parties concerned in the collision could be adjudicated in
a single proceeding. And if one vessel is absent so that it
cannot be brought in under Rule 59, contribution for its
share of the loss may be obtained by a separate suit.
There is.no authority, however, for the proposition that
because the plaintiff might originally have sued to recover compensation under the maritime law, a judgment

THE IRA M HEDGES.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which he has obtained by pursuing his rights, at common
law may still be .used as the basis of an action for. contribution in admiralty. Selz v. Unna, 6 Wall. 327, 335.
A defendant by paying a judgment obtained against
him for a tort at common law does not become subrogated
to the plaintiff's original right against another who might
also have been sued as a joint tort-feasor.
Without such subrogation (which would follow from
the payment of a decree against one of the two joint tortfeasors sued in admiralty) the defendant, who has paid a
common law judgment, has no cause of action against 'his
co-tort feasor on the plaintiff's original claim.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a libel for coitribution. The libel was excepted
to by the claimant and was dismissed on the ground that
the District Court sitting as a Court of Admiralty had ro.
jurisdiction to. enforce contribution between the parties
on the facts.
The facts alleged are as follows. The appellant was in
possession of the tug Slatington under a demise, and the
tug was crossing the North Riyer -with car-float No. 22
alongside on the port side. The tug Ira M. Hedges was
coming up the river on the port -side with two stone
scows in tow, one on each side.. There was a collision
between one of those scows, thel Helen, and car-float
No. 22, which was caused or contributed to by the Ira M.
Hedges. The owner of the Helen, not being the owner 3f
the Ira M. Hedges, brought an action at common law and
recovered a judgment against the appellant, the owner of
the Ira M. Hedges not being made a party defendant in
that suit. Theappellant paid the judgment and brought
this libel against the Ira M. Hedges, in terms to recover
the amount of the claim set forth in the libel, but, it fairly
may be held, in substance to recover, if not the whole,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

then contribution for what the libellant has had to expend.
The first question is whether-this court has jurisdiction
of the appeal. It is said that the dismissal of the'libel,
although expressed to be for want of jurisdiction, really
is on the merits, because payment of a judgment at
common law is not a ground for contribution from a
joint wrongdoer, not a party to the suit. There sometimes
is difficulty in distinguishing between matters going to the
jurisdiction and those determining- the merits. Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230, 235, and, no doubt, this case.
presents that, difficulty. But perhaps it may be said that
the two considerations coalesce here. The admiralty has
a limited jurisdiction. If there are no merits in the claim
it is of a kind that the admiralty not only ought not to'
enforce but has no power to enforce. At all events, the
form of the decree must be taken, to express the meaning
of the judge. If the decree was founded, as it purports to
be, on a denial of jurisdiction in the court, this court has
jurisdiction of the appeal. For all admiralty jurisdiction
belongs to courts of the United States as such, and therefore the denial of jurisdiction brings the appeal within
the established rule. See The Steamship Jefferson, 215
U. S. 130, 138.
Coming to the substance we are of opinion that the
decision was wrong. The right to contribution belongs to
the substantive law of the admiralty. Erie R. R. Co.'v.
Erie & Western Transportation Co., 204 U. S. 220. It
-is not a mere incident of a form of procedure. Therefore
the fact, over which the libellant had no control, that the
injured party saw fit to sue at common law cannot take
that right away. The passing of the claim, against the
'libellant into the forn of a judkrnent before the claim was
satisfied has no bearing upon the question whether the
right to contribution remains. It does not matter to this
question, even if it be true, as thought by the court below,

THE IRA M. HEDGES.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the libellant might have required the owner of the
Ira M. Hedges to be made a party. For it still would
have rested with the plaintiff in the former suit to collect
from the appellant alone if it saw fit, and, if it had done so,
it is at best but a speculation to suggest that the libellant
could have recovered from its co-defendant at common
law.
The question as to what is conclusively established by
the common law judgment is not before us, but only the
jurisdiction of the court. But we may add that the appellant seeks to recover contribution for the amount paid,
not as res judicata, but as one of the consequences of a
joint tort from which it could not escape, and which its
fellow wrongdoer was bound to contemplate. The claimant of course does not desire to dispute the appellant's
negligence. It is free to deny its own. Whether if it were
so minded it could controvert the amount of the damage
as determined by the judgment need not be discussed.
No doubt it would have been a prudent course for the
appellant to give notice to the owner of the Ira M. Hedges
to take part in the defence, with a view to its possible
ultimate liability. Whether a failure to do so would
affect its rights is not before us to decide. We do not
mean to intimate that the failure is material where there
has been a.bonafide defence.
Decree reversed.

