OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
SXllabus.

218 .. S.

Co. v. Knoxville, 189 U. S. 434, 438. But there is,no such
limitation by the State and no contract by the parish
that implies it. An authority given by the State to promise and levy a tax in future years on the taxable property
in the parish does not purport to limit the power of the
State to say what property shall be taxable when' the time
comes-at least by general regulations not aimed at aiding
an evasion of the promise it has allowed. A vote by a
parish to pay five mills on all the taxable property within
its boundaries refers on its face to a determination by the
sovereign as to what that property shall be. See Arkansas
Soulhern R. R. Co. v. Wilson, 118 Louisiana, 395, 401.
The notion that the statute and the vote separately or
together precluded the State from erecting a jail that
should be free from such claims is untenable on its face.
The same reasoning allows the State to go farther, as it
has done. We agree with the Supreme Court that it did
not transgress the Constitution of the United States.
Dqcree affirmed.

FISHER v. CITY OF NEW ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF'THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 43.

Argued November 9, 10, 1910.-Decided Novenber 28, 1910.

The jurisdiction of this court, under the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution, extends to doing away with the interference of a later
law impairing the cotitract,-but not to remedying erroneous con-struction of the original contract or to seeing that it is carried
out according to the interpretation of this court, apart from it.
There is nothing in this case that takes it out of the general rule above
stated.
Whether or not delay constitutes laches is for the state court to aecide.
Writ of error to review 121 Louisiana, 762, dismissed.

FISHER v. NEW ORLEANS.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality, under
the contract clause, of certain provisions of the Louisiana
constitution of 1898, .are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles Louque for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr. St. Clair Adams, with whom Mr. I. D. Moore was
on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition for mandamus to direct the levy of a
special tax of one and one-half mills to pay claims and
judgments against the New Orleans School Board, based
on contracts made by the Board with teachers and others
during the years 1874, 1875 and 1876 under the Louisiana
Act 36 of 1873. The ground of the petition is that under
that act the contracts were authorized and were payable
out of a special tax, unlimited in amount; that an attempt
to limit taxation in Article 232 of the state constitution
of 1898 is void as to them, because it impairs their obligation contrary to Article I, § 10, of the Constitution of the
United States; Hubert v. New Orleans, 215 U. S. 170, 175178; and that a sufficient amount has not been levied
for the years mentioned. The Supreme Court denied
the mandamus, 121 Louisiana, 762, and this Writ of error
was brought.
The plaintiffs in error' are met at the outset by a denial
of the jurisdiction of this court. The main grounds upon
which the Supreme Court of the State decided the case
were that the relators had been guilty of laches and that'
the act of 1873 did not authorize contracts to be made
by the School Board in such wise as to bind the city to
levy the tax. The court did not purport to rely upon
the constitution of 1898, or any subsequent legislation,
for the result. It did not purport to enforce any later

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

law; it simply denied the existence of the right alleged.
Therefore on the face of the decision there is no warrant
for coming here. But it is said that this court is not limited to the mere language of the opinion but will consider
the gubstance and effect of the judgment; McCullough
v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 102, 116, 117; Hubert v. New Orleans,
215. U. S. 170, 175; and that this court will decide for
itself, with due respect for the state decision, whether
a contract had been made and what it was. Sullivan v.
Texas, 207 U. S. 416, 423. Both of these statements are
true, of course, and are relevant when the judgment really
gives effect to a later act of the State that would impair
the obligation of the contract if the contract were as alleged. But the mere allegation of a later constitution
or statute impairing the obligation of the contract gives
no jurisdiction to this court to see that the contract is
enforced according to its tenor, irrespective of the supposed interference of the later law. The jurisdiction extends to doing away with such an interference, but not
to remedying an erroneous construction of contracts or
to seeing that they are carried out according to. the interpretation of this court, apart from it. Bacon v. Texas,
163 U. S. 207, 218, 219. New Orleans Water Works Co. v.
Louisiana, 185 U. S. 336, 350, 351, 352; Weber v. Rogan,
188 U. S. 10, 14; Central Land Co. v. Laidley, 159 U. S.
103, 110, 111. Therefore the present writ of error must
be dismissed unless there is more in the case than the
opinion has disclosed.
We discover nothing. If it was true that there was
no contract binding the city to levy an extra tax, or that
the parties demanding it had lost any rights they might
have had by laches, there was no occasion to invoke or
enforce any law later than the act of 1873. Obviously,
however much we consider the substance of the judgment,
it discloses no question of rights under the Constitution
any more than does the opinion of the state court. Un-

FISHER v. NEW ORLEANS.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

less the reasons put forward for the decision were but a
cover for an unavowed enforcement of the constitution
of 1898, which of course there is no ground to suggest,
the jurisdiction of this court fails. As a work of supererogation we will indicate in a summary way some of the
reasons for denying the power of the Board of Schoel
Directors to bind the city to levy the tax upon the facts,
simply to show how remote from matter of Federal jurisdiction the decision was.
By § 2 of the Act of 1873 the Board of Directors are
to adopt an estimate of debt and expenditures for the
current year, and thereafter, in October of each year,
to adopt and communicate to the City Council an estimate
for the year beginning on the next January 1. By § 4
"the Council, after receiving the estimate . . . shall
proceed to make provision for the support of public
schools.
.
For the purpose of such support it
shall levy a tax of not less than one-fourth of one per cent,"
etc. Then, by § 10, "the Board of Directors of the Public
Schools shall not be empowered to make contracts or
debts for the year 1873, or any subsequent year, greater
than the amount of the revenue provided for according
to this act, or other school laws existing, it being the intent hereof that parties contracting with said Board shall
take heed that due revenue shall have been provided to
satisfy the claims, otherwise they shall lose and forfeit
the same." It will be observed that the City Council
is not required by § 4 to make provision for the amount
of the estimate received by it, but for the support of the
Public Schools, and that the minimum limit set to its
action implies that beyond that point it has power of
control. The subsefuent provisions of § 10 hardly are
reconcilable with any other view.
In this state of the law the City Council levied the
minimum tax of one-fourth of one per cent, and no more,
for the'years 1874, 1875 and 1876. But the levy was less

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
218 U. S.

Syllabus.

than the estimates of the School Board, and the contention was that the City Council was bound to levy for the
full amount of the latter, and that the plaintiffs in error
are entitled to demand a levy for the difference between
the two now. The contrary decision was natural enough
on the face of the act of 1873, and is corroborated by the
consideration of other statutes before and after 1873,
to which we think it unnecessary to refer. It also is said
that a part of the tax levied was not collected. But that
was not a ground stated in the petition, and is not a matter with which we have any concern, We do not go into
the matter of laches beyond noting that this petition
was not filed until 1907. Whether the long delay was
sufficiently explained or not was for the state court to
decide.
Writ of error dismissed.

HARLAN v. McGOURIN, MARSHAL.
GALLAGHER v. THE SAME.
APPEALS

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Nos. 378, 379.

Argued October 11, 12, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

The writ of habeas corpus cannot be used for purposes of proceedings
in error; the jurisdiction under the writ is confined to determining
from the record whether the petitioner is deprived of his liberty
without authority of law. Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 84; Greene v.
Henkel, 183 U. S. 249, distinguished.
A collateral attack on the judgment under which petitioner in habeas

