OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

BARNEY v. RICKARD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 21.

Argued January 31, 1M9 -Decided

April 1, 1895.

Under the act of February 26, 1845, c. 22, 5 Stat. 727, a protest against the
exaction of duties on imported goods, in order to be available for recovering the amount of duties illegally exacted, must be made at or before
their actual payment; and when the importer deposits with a collector
an amount supposed to be sufficient to pay the duties, subject to future
liquidation, and receives the goods, and on such liquidation an amount is
found to be due the importer as overpayment and is refunded to him,
a protest made after the deposit and receipt of the goods, but before
the liquidation, is too late and is of no avail.
In an action, tried in 1890, to recover duties alleged to have been illegally
exacted in 1861 on an importation of bareges, grenadines, maretz, and
merinos, the plaintiff introduced no samples of the imported goods, nor
any evidence as to their loss or destruction, and gave no reasons why
they were not preserved and produced. He showed to one of his witnesses samples of grenadines, bareges, etc., but without connecting
them in any way with the importations, and questioned the witness concerning them. teld, that their admission tended to mislead the jury, and
was error; and that such evidence came within the rule that "a fact
which renders the existence or non-existence of any fact in issue probable by reason of its general resemblance thereto, and not by reason of its
being connected therewith, is deemed not to be relevant to such fact."

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-IL.
Assistant _A~totney General TVIHtney for plaintiff in
error.

No appearance for defendant in error.
Xi'. S. 17 Pillyis and .M'. F D. . lcKenney, by leave of
court, filed a brief on behalf of defendant in error.
MR.
court.

CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

BARNEY v. RICKARD.
Opinion of the Court.

This was an action to recover duties alleged to have been
paid on some thirty-nine importations made during the years
1863 and 1864 from France into the port of New York of
veil bareges, plain bareges, crepe maretz, grenadines, and merinos. The action was commenced January 24, 1866, and
tried in ivlay, 1890. The trial resulted in a verdict and judgment for the importers on all of the articles mentioned, except
the plain bareges.
These questions are presented by the record: First, whether
the protest complied with the requirements of the act of February 26, 1845, c. 22, 5 Stat. 727. Second, whether certain
samples were properly admitted in evidence for the consideration of the jury.
1. Two of the importations are referred to by the government as bringing out the first question with distinctness, both
of which were made prior to June 30, 1864. The record reads
as to these two importations as follows:
"It appeared that in case of the importation covered by
Exhibit 28, at the time of the entry thereof, February 15,
1864, the plaintiffs' testator deposited with the defendant, as
collector of customs, an amount of money which was equal to
an amount of duties thereon at the rate of about 40 per centum ad valorem; or, in other words, an amount in excess of
the amount of duties subsequently ascertained on liquidation
of the entry; that upon such ascertainment or liquidation the
defendant, as said collector, retained out of said deposit a
certain sum as duties, and thereafter returned the excess to
plaintiffs' testator; that the entry was so liquidated, and the
plaintiffs' testator notified of such liquidation M[ay 16, 1864;
that the excess of the amount deposited with the defendant,
as said collector on February 15, 1864, over and above the
amount of duties actually found due on liquidation and retained as above, -was refunded to the plaintiffs' testator May
23, 1864; that the plaintiffs' testator obtained possession of
each and every part of said importation on or prior to February 26, 1864, and that the protest relating to said importation was dated and endorsed March 4, 1864.

.

.

.

"That in case of the importation covered by Exhibit 38,
voL. cm-v-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

at the time of the entry thereof, April 20, 1864, the plaintiffs'
testator deposited with the defendant, as collector of customs,
an amount of money which was equal to an amount of duties
thereon, at the rate of above 40 per centum ad valorem; or,
in other words, an amount in excess of the amount of duties
subsequently ascertained on liquidation of the entry; that
upon such ascertainment or liquidation, the defendant, as said
collector, retained out of said deposit a certain sum as duties,
and thereafter returned the excess to plaintiffs' testator; that
the entry was so liquidated and the plaintiffs' testator notified
of such liquidation May 16, 1864; that the excess of the
amount deposited with the defendant, as said collector, on
April 20, 1864, over and above the amount of duties actually
found due on liquidation and retained as above, was refunded
to the plaintiffs' testator May 19, 1864; that the plaintiffs'
testator obtained possession of each and every part of said
importation on or prior to April 30, 1864, and that the protest
relating to said importation was dated MNay 3, 1864."
Both sides having rested, defendant's counsel moved the
court to direct the jury to find for the defendant as to each
of the importations covered by Exhibits 28 and 38, on the
ground that the payment of the duties sought to be recovered
as to each was paid on. or about the dates of the entries, and
the respective protests were not made until after such payments. This motion the court denied, and defendant excepted.
Defendant's counsel also moved the court to direct the jury to
find for defendant as to the importations covered by Exhibits
28 and 38, on the ground that if the date of the payment was
not the date of the entry, and was the date of the liquidation
of the duties and the notification of such liquidation, Rickard
obtained possession of the goods without such payment, or in
other words, did not pay the duties to obtain such possession.
This motion the court denied, and defendant excepted.
It will be perceived as to Exhibit 38 that the record states
that Rickard at the time of the entry, April 20, 1864, "deposited with the defendant, as collector of customs, an amount of
money which was equal to an amount of duties thereon, at the
rate of above forty per centum ad valorem, or, in other words,

BARNEY v. RICKARD.
Opinion of the Court.

an amount in excess of the amount of duties subsequently ascertained on liquidation of the entry;" that he received the
goods April 30 ; that he did not protest until May 3; that the
entry was liquidated May 16, and that the collector, finding
that there had been an overpayment, refunded the difference
between the amount finally decided on by him as correct and
the amount as paid by Rickard, May 19.
The contention of the government is that if the actual
transfer of the money on April 20 constituted its payment,
that payment was not made under protest; and that if the
actual payment is to be regarded as having been made when
the entry was liquidated, or the excess was repaid, then it was
not made under duress, as Rickard had already got his goods.
Actions against collectors for money had and received depended originally on common law principles. The money was
regarded as paid under duress in order to obtain possession
of the merchandise detained by the collector, and the protest
evidenced the fact that the payment was involuntary, and
warned the collector not to pay the money into the Treasury.
The history of legislation on the subject is given by Mr.
Justice Bradley, in Barney v. Watson, 92 U. S. 452, and more
in detail in the brief for the government.
By the act of March 2, 1799, c. 22, § 49, 1 Stat. 627, 664,
the collector (jointly with the naval officer or alone where
there was none) was required to make "a gross estimate of the
amount of the duties on the goods, wares, or merchandise to
which the entry of any owner or consignee, his or her factor
or agent," related, to be endorsed upon such entry and signed
by the officer or officers making the same; "and the amount
of the said estimated duties having been first paid, or secured
to be paid, pursuant to the provisions of this act, the said collector shall, together with the naval officer, where there is
one, or alone where there is none, grant a permit to land
the goods, wares, and merchandise, whereof entry shall have
been so made, and then, and not before, it shall be lawful to
land the said goods." Rev. Stat. § 2869. By section 4 of the
act of May 28, 1830, c. 147, 4 Stat. 409, 410, a ten-day bond on
delivery to return the goods on call was provided for, but this

OCTOBER TERlTI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

was in addition to payment or security therefor, and intended
for further security if the duties overran the estimated amount.
In Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137, the principle was affirmed which had been established by previous authorities,
that money paid to a collector for duties illegally demanded, if paid under compulsion, in order to get possession
of the goods or to prevent their seizure for duties, might be
recovered in a common law action against the collector, provided the payment was made under protest and with full
notice of the intent to sue, so that the officer might protect
himself by retaining the money in his possession; but that a
payment voluntarily made without such protest could not be
recovered back. Because of the embarrassments which ensued
in consequence of the large amount of duties withheld from
the public Treasury by Swartwout, the defendant in that case, a
section was inserted in the civil and diplomatic appropriation
bill of March 3, 1839, c. 82, § 2, 5 Stat. 339, 348, which read as
follows: "That from and after the passage of this act, all
money paid to any collector of the customs, or to any person
acting as such, for unascertained duties or for duties paid under protest against the rate or amount of duties charged, shall
be placed to the credit of the Treasurer of the United States,
kept and disposed of as all other money ])aid for duties is required by law, or by regulation of the Treasury Department,
to be placed to the credit of said Treasurer, kept and disposed
of ; and shall not be held by said collector, or person acting
as such, to await any ascertainment of duties, or the result of
any litigation in relation to the rate or amount of duty legally
chargeable and collectible in any case where money is so
paid; but whenever it shall be shown to the satisfaction of
the Secretary of the Treasury, that in any case of unascertained duties or duties paid under protest more money has
been paid to the collector or person acting as such than the
law requires should have been paid, it shall be his duty to
draw his warrant upon the Treasurer in favor of the person
or persons entitled to the overpayment, directing the said
Treasurer to refund the same out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated."

BARNEY v. RICKARD.
Opinion of the Court.

By the act of August 30, 1842, c. 270, § 12, 5 Stat. 598, 561,
the duties were required to be paid in cash.
At January term, 1845, it was held by this court in Oary v.
Curtis, 3 How. 236, that the second section of the act of 1839
took away the importer's right of action. The argument was
that as thereby the collector was required to pay moneys collected into the Treasury without regard to protests filed or
without awaiting the result of suits brought, he was converted
"into the mere bearer of those sums to the Treasury of the
United States, through the presiding officer of which department they were to be disposed of in conformity to the law."
This decision was referred to with approval in Curtis v. Miedler,
2 Black, 461, 478, and the court said: "The law never implies
a promise to pay unless some duty creates such an obligation,
and more especially it never implies a promise to do an act
contrary to duty or contrary to law. Collectors under the act
referred to were required to pay all moneys received for unascertained duties or for duties paid under protest into the
Treasury of the United States, and consequently this court held
that in a case arising under that law, where that duty had been
performed by the collector, the law would not imply a promise
on his part to pay the same back to the importer, because he was
under no obligation to pay the money twice, and to have paid
the same back to the importer in the first place would have
been contrary to his official duty as prescribed by an act of
Congress."
Thereupon the act of February 26, 18415, c. 22, 5 Stat. 727,
was passed, which provided: "That nothing contained in [said
section] shall take away, or be construed to take away or
impair, the right of any person or persons who have paid
or shall hereafter pay money, as and for duties, under protest,
to any collector of the customs, or other person acting as such,
in order to obtain goods, wares, or merchandise, imported by
him or them, or on his or their account, which duties are not
authorized or payable in part or in whole by law, to maintain
any action at law against such collector, or other person acting
as such, to ascertain and try the legality and validity of such
demand and payment of duties, and to have a right to a trial

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

by jury, touching the same, according to the due course of law.
Nor shall anything contained in the second section of the act
aforesaid be construed to authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to refund any duties paid under protest; nor shall any
action be maintained against any collector, to recover the
amount of duties so paid under protest, unless the said protest was made in writing, and signed by the claimant, at or
before the payment of said duties, setting forth distinctly and
specifically the grounds of objection to the payment thereof."
Thus the common law right of action was restored, but the
protest was required to be in writing and not oral as before
allowed. Swartwoitt v. Gilton, 3 How. 110.
This was the statute in existence regulating payments
under protest upon importations of dutiable goods at the time
of the importations under consideration. The act of March
3, 1857, c. 98, § 5, provided for notice of dissatisfaction within
ten days after entry, but that act only applied to cases where
the question was whether the goods were or were not subject
to duty at all. 11 Stat. 192, 195. The act of June 30, 1864-,
gave ten days after liquidation for such notice. Rev. Stat.
§2931.
By the act of August 6, 1846, c. 81, 9 Stat. 53, the right to
secure the duties was restored in case of entries for warehousing, by giving bond in double the amount of the duties as
estimated; and in Ti'emlett v. Adams, 13 Hov. 295, 303, Mr.
Chief Justice Taney made these observations in respect of
that act: "Previous to the passage of this act no goods,
chargeable with cash duties, could be landed at the port of
delivery until the duties were paid at the port of entry.
The permit could not be granted unless the duties
had been paid. . . . The importer himself had no right
to land them, even at the port of entry, before the duties were
paid. But when the entry at the custom-house was imperfect,
for want of the proper documents, or where the goods were
damaged in the voyage, and the duties could not be immediately ascertained, or the cash duties were not paid after the
forms of entry had been complied with; in all of these cases
the collector was directed, by existing laws, to take possession

BARNEY v. RICKARD.
Opinion of the Court.

of such goods and place them in public stores, and: retain
them until the duties were paid."
As we have said, the act of 1799 provided that on entry the
duties should be "first paid, or secured to be paid." The act
of August 30, 1842, required, however, that "the duties on all
imported goods, wares, or merchandise, shall be paid in cash,"
or otherwise the goods should be stored and sold. The act of
August 6, 1846, amended the act of 1842, and while preserving the provision that the duties should be paid in cash and
that goods upon which the duties were not paid should be
deposited in public store and sold by the collector, established
also the system of entries for warehousing, by which the
duties, instead of being paid, could be secured by bond with
sureties in double their amount in such form as the Secretary
of the Treasury should prescribe. None of the statutes provided for a deposit. Either the estimated duty must be paid
in cash or a warehouse bond must be given. Otherwise the
goods could not be entered, but would be put in the public
store by the collector as unclaimed.
We assume that the procedure in estimating duties was
-for the collector, taking the invoice as true, to ascertain the
amount which prima facie the importer should pay, and this
he was compelled to pay in cash forthwith unless he entered
the goods for warehousing. Ordinarily the duties finally
liquidated were the same as those originally estimated, but
the collector might for various reasons find that the estimated
duty had to be changed, and a further payment or refund
made. In the case at bar it is stated that the amount
originally required to be paid was "about" or "above" forty
per cent ad valorem, " o r , in other words, an amount in excess
of the amount of duties subsequently ascertained on liquidation of the entry," but that cannot be held to mean that,
instead of making "a gross estimate of the amount of the
duties" as required by law, the collector named a mere arbitrary figure. On the contrary, as the presumption is in favor
of the collector and the record shows that he assessed the
duties at thirty per cent ad valorem and two cents per square
yard, it must be concluded that he so estimated them, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

that the amount required overran the result of subsequent and
accurate calculation. Besides, as, when the protest came to
be made, the importer claimed that the rate should have been
thirty-five per cent ad valorem, the statement may have been
inserted as establishing that thirty per cent ad valoreim plus
two cents per square yard exceeded thirty-five per cent ad
valorem.
The question arises then whether, when the duties were
estimated and the amount delivered by Rickard to the collector, he should not then have protested if he desired to contest the legality of the exaction. The statute said that an
action could not be maintained against the collector, except
under protest, and "unless the protest was made in writing,
and signed by the claimant, at or before the payment of said
duties." Without the protest the money paid was not illegally
exacted, and, if not, could not be recovered back. Lawlence
v. Caswell, 13 How. 488, 496. If when final liquidation took
place there had been no change in the amount determined or
the basis thereof, could he then protest? If the amount had
been increased and he protested, could he recover back more
than the amount so added? Having obtained his goods by
the delivery of the money without protest, could he say after
that that it was paid compulsorily in order to get possession
of them?
It seems to us that these protests came too late, if the duties
were estimated according to law, and that this was distinctly
ruled in Barney v. 1Tatson, 92 U. S. 449.
In that case the goods were entered December 24, 1863.
The collector put the duties at the sum of 8840.93, arrived
at by the addition of a specific duty to the duty ad valorem,
and ascertainable by the rule applied. The amount thus
determined was delivered to the collector. On liquidation of
the entry, the collector fixed the amount at $10,023.64, leaving
a balance of $1187.71. This liquidation of the entry was
made March 11, 1864, and the additional duty was paid and
the protest made MKarch 24, 1864. The question between the
importers and the collector related to the proper rate of duty
upon certain flannels. These the importer classified at 35 per

BARNEY v. RICKARD.
Opinion of the Court.

cent ad valorem, while the collector classified them at 35
per cent ad valorem plus a specific duty of eighteen cents per
pound. Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the opinion, states
that there were 7981 pounds of these goods, so that the specific duty was $1427.12. This difference was partly represented by the payment, under protest, of $1182.71, but a
portion of it was represented by part of the $8840.93 paid at
the time of the entry of the goods. This court held that as to
the sum illegally exacted in December, the plaintiff must fail
to recover, because he had then failed to protest, and Mr.
Justice Bradley said: "The question in the case, therefore,
really was, whether the importers made their protest in accordance with the act of 1845, namely, at or before paying the
duties complained of. It is not denied that they did this so
far as relates to the additional charge of $1182.72, but they
claim a return of more than this; and under the charge of
the court they obtained a verdict for nearly double this
amount, which would include some portion of the money
paid by them without protest when the goods were first
entered. This was erroneous."
The payment of the $8840.93 was payment of the estimated
duties, just as in this case, although Mr. Justice Bradley speaks
of it as a "payment on account." So far as disclosed by this
record the importers knew in this case as in that, upon what
basis the collector proceeded as to amount and rate, and if in
this case as in that an additional amount had been required
to be paid and they had protested, such additional amount
might have been recovered back, if otherwise improperly
exacted, because it would have been paid under protest at
the time of the payment, and the importers could not have
been held to have acquiesced by not protesting before.
But it does not follow that the protest can be given effect
as of the prior date when the amount of the estimated duties
was paid over or deposited, or that the entire amount must be
considered as paid under duress at the later date when possession of the goods had already been surrendered.
H:ence, in Crocker v. Redfleld, 4 Blatchford, 378, 380, Mr.
Justice Nelson, on the question of "estimated duties," held as

OCTOBER TER-Mf, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

follows: "As it respects the excess of duty claimed to be
recovered upon the shipment of jute, it is a sufficient answer
to say that the protest is defective. It appears, on the face
of it, that the money was paid, and in the hands of the collector, before the protest was made against the payment of
the duty and the penalty. There is no date to it, but the
inference is unavoidable from the facts stated in it. Indeed,
a balance is still in the bands of the collector of $92.85. It is
said that the money was only deposited with the collector as
a security for the payment of the duties when ascertained,
and that the application did not take place till the ascertainment of the duties. Admitting this to be so, I do not agree
to the consequence claimed. The money deposited was to be
applied by the collector to the duties, and it cannot be said,
after this, that it was paid compulsorily in order to get possession of the goods. The protest, after the duties were ascertained, came too late."
Mr. Justice Nelson participated in the decision of Marriott
v. Brune, 9 How. 619, in which it is supposed a contrary view
was indicated. That case was decided by Chief Justice Taney
on circuit. Brune v. .Aarriott, Taney Dec. 132. Plaintiffs
paid the estimated duties in cash on certain importations of
sugar at the port of Baltimore in 184r7, which were thereupon
landed and examined by the weighers and gaugers, which
examination disclosed that the goods had suffered from leakage. Suit was "brought to recover back so much of the
money as was paid for duties upon that portion of the cargo
which was lost on the voyage by leakage." Plaintiffs did not
protest until after the occurrences above mentioned and prior
to the final liquidation of the duties. Judgment was unquestionably correctly given for plaintiffs. The goods were not
intended to be left in warehouse under the act of August 6,
1846, and payment of the duties was made while the goods
were still aboard the ship, and the leakage not ascertained
until after they were put ashore. The payment therefore
was not made under a mistake of law, but under a mutual
mistake of fact, since the importers and collector both assumed
that the amount of sugar and molasses named in the invoices
was to be unladed.

BARNEY v. RICKARD.
Opinion of the Court.

Clearly there was nothing to show dissatisfaction in the
first instance, but when the fact developed that there was a
deficiency in respect of which duties should not have been
exacted, protest was made as to the amount paid on goods
which were lacking, but not in respect of any other part of
the importations. The Chief Justice said, however: "The
protest is not required to be made on or before the payment
of what are called the estimated duties, for this payment is
necessarily regulated by the invoice quantity as well as the
invoice price. The importer cannot at that time know
whether there has been any loss by leakage, nor can he know,
after it has been ascertained by the weigher and gauger,
whether the collector will exact duties upon the amount
stated in the invoice. The protest is legally made when the
duties are finally determined and the amount assessed by the
collector, and a protest before or at that time is sufficient
notice, as it warns the collector, before he renders his account
to the Treasury Department, that he will be held personally
responsible.
.
.
The payment of the money upon the
estimated duties is rather in the nature of a pledge or a
deposit than a payment, for it remains in the hands of the
proper officer, subject to the final assessment of the duties,
and if more has been paid than is due, which is most commonly the case, the surplus belongs to the importer, and is
returned to him. Upon the whole, the court is of opinion
S. .that
the protest of April 9, 1847, covers all the cargoes where duties had not before been finally assessed and
adjusted by the collector."
And in the case on error in this court, 9 How. 619, Mr.
Justice Woodbury, speaking for the court, remarked that
"where the duties had not been closed up in any cases when
the written protest in April was filed - though the preliminary payment of the estimated duties had taken place -the
court justly considered the protest valid; because till the final
adjustment the money remains in the hands of the collector,
and is not accounted for with the government, and more may
be necessary to be paid by the importer."
Without analyzing the reason given, in view of the lan-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

guage of the statute, and the decisions in Cary v. Curti8 and
Cri8 v.. Fiedler,these observations must be read in the light
of the facts of the case. The protest was confined to the
duties paid on the deficiency. Upon discovery of the fact of
loss by leakage, the importers became entitled to a repayment,
and the action of the collector was equivalent to a then decision that they were not so entitled, against which decision
they protested. Up to that time there was no ground for a
protest, and when the necessity therefor appeared it was made
at the time of the particular payment complained of and was
given that effect, a very different thing from carrying it back
to the previous payment when there was no complaint.
In ilfoke v. Barney, 5 Blatchford, 274, Mr. Justice Nelson
held that the requirement of the act of February 26, 1845, of
a written protest in order to sustain an action against the collector to recover duties back, applied to the payment of unascertained as well as ascertained duties or "duties paid under
protest;" and he there said that the protest was seasonably
made, if made at the time of the final liquidation. In that
case the question arose in reference to an allowance for draft,
and, just as in the instance of leakage, the notice of dissatisfaction could not be given until the ground for dissatisfaction
was disclosed.
In E skine v. Yn Am'sdale, 15 Wall. 75, the ruling was
that taxes illegally assessed and paid may always be recovered back if the collector understands from the payer that the
taxes are regarded as illegal and that suit will be instituted to
compel the refunding of them. It is not necessary to discuss
the cases in relation to the existence of such duress or necessity'as make a payment involuntary. The intention of the
statute was that recovery could be had if proper notice of
dissatisfaction was given at the proper time, and, as already
remarked, in Bitne v. .Jfarriott the payment of so much of
the duties as was subsequently disputed was really made
under misapprehension of fact. In Barney v. Matson the
same rule was applied to the additional amount required on
final liquidation, but the protest was distinctly held not to
cover that proportion of the amount assessed illegally which
had been included in the prior payment.

BARNEY v. RICKARD.
Opinion of the Court.

In -Davies v. Ailler, 130 U. S. 284, 287, 289, it was held
that under the act of 1864 the protest could be made at any
time after entry, it having been decided in the court below
that it could not be made before final liquidation, but whether
it could be made after payment was not a question presented
for consideration; and acrAriott v. Brune was referred to as
generally regarded and acted on as laying down a general
rule establishing the validity of prospective protests as it was
in Schell's Executors v. Faucti,138 U. S. 562. No point was
ruled in these cases inconsistent with the conclusion at which
we have arrived, which is that these protests were not in time.
We think this results from the language of the statutes, the
facts disclosed by the record and the decision in Barney v.
Watson, in which the precise question was squarely presented.
It is true that the evidence of a custom-house broker was.
adduced to the effect that where there was any uncertainty
as to the correct rate of duty it was the practice, at the time
of the trial, to take from the merchant what was known as
a deposit intended to more than cover the exact amount of
duty; but we do not understand this practice, if it prevailed
prior to the act of June 30, 1864, as dispensing with the
necessity of the collector making his estimate of the duties
by fixing in dollars and cents the amount which primafacie
the importer should pay, exacting, if in doubt, the higher of
two possible rates.
In this case the collector claimed thirty per cent ad valorem and two cents per square yard. The importer must be
held to have known whether this classification was objectionable or not, and was not entitled to wait until final liquidation
to make up his mind whether he would protest against that
classification, and on what ground he would put the protest.
In not protesting he accepted the rates as they stood and
took the chances that they might be lowered, while if they
were increased a protest would then be effective as to such
increase, or if the basis of the exaction was changed. There
was no increase and apparently no change. The reasonable
inference is that the ground of the refund was some inaccuracy in the computations.

OCTOBER TERIVI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

And it might well be held, on this record, that even if the
money could be said to have been paid at the time of the
final liquidation because not applied until then, it was not
paid in order to get possession of the goods. See under subsequent statutes: United States v. Scidesinger, 120 U. S.109;
Porter v. Beard, 124 U. S. 429; .Merrittv. Cameron,137 U. S.
542; Cadwalader v. Partridge,137 U. S. 553; Se/wenfeld v.
.Hendrick-s, 152 U. S. 691.
2. Among the goods imported were certain plain bareges
and grenadines, each composed of a silk warp and worsted
weft. No samples of these imports, or any similar goods
imported by iRickard, were put in evidence. A sample was
shown to one of the witnesses, (and other similar evidence
was adduced, not differing from that of this witness,) who
testified that it "was known in this country in 1861 as a
grenadine or a barege." This was objected to, because "in
no way connected with any goods in suit," but was admitted
as Exhibit 44, and defendant excepted. The witness was then
shown another sample, as to which he testified that it "was a
barege, but it might be called a grenadine sometimes." This
was also admitted under exception and marked 44:. The next
sample "was a grenadine, what they call an iron barege, or
an iron frame barege;
that the real name for it was,
in French, canevas, because they resembled canvas; that
when they came here they got the name of iron bareges;
that it was not a species of grenadine; it was a grenadine,
only it had a disposition of threads more or less heavy or
harsh." This was likewise admitted, under exception, as
Exhibit 45. The witness further testified that "Exhibit 4.4
did not differ at all from a plain barege, a silk and worsted
brege as known in trade and commerce in 1861, '2, '3, and '4;
it was simply a barege; that Exhibit 45 was a grenadine, and
in 1862, '3, and '4 was known in trade and commerce in this
country as an iron barege; that it did not differ in any respect
from what was known in trade and commerce in this country
in 1862, '3, and '4 as grenadine; . . . that he did not
know anything about the bareges in this suit; that there was
a great variety of grenadines; . . . that if a grenadine

BARNEY v. RICKARD.
Opinion of the Court.

were of a quality worth 65 cents it would not represent at all
one that was worth $1.25; . . . that he did not know
anything about the grenadines in this suit." The jury found
for the plaintiffs as to the grenadines. There was no evidence adduced of the loss or destruction by iRickard of the
samples, nor did the lapse of time raise any presumption of
such loss or destruction. The protest for purposes of suit was
made not long after the importations, and the action was commenced in 1866 by the same attorney who was spared to try
the case nearly a quarter of a century afterwards. The goods
were not perishable in nature and no reason was given why
the necessary samples were not preserved. It must be
assumed that all material testimony bearing upon these
exhibits was incorporated in the bill of exceptions, and we
cannot discover therefrom that the articles imported by Rickard under the name of grenadines were iron bareges or
claimed by him to be such. Unless this were so, the sample
numbered 45 was not relevant. Nor does it appear that there
was any evidence to connect the samples introduced with the
importations in question, or fairly tending to establish substantial identity between them and the importers' goods.
We are of opinion that these samples were incapable of raising any reasonable presumption or inference as to whether
the goods were properly classified, and that their admission
tended to mislead the jury. And if there were some evidence
of resemblance, still we think as the record stands the proof
came within the rule laid down by Mr. Justice Stephens: "A
fact which renders the existence or non-existence of any fact
in issue probable by reason of its general resemblance thereto,
and not by reason of its being connected therewith, . .
is deemed not to be relevant to such fact. . . ." Dig. Ev.
art. 10.
Judgment r'eversed and cause remanded with a direction to
grant a new trial.

