POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

429

Syllabus.

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST

COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 893. Argued March 7, 8, 11, 12, 18, 1S95. -Decided

April 8, 1695.

A court of equity has jurisdiction to prevent a threatened breach of trust
in the misapplication or diversion of the funds of a corporation by illegal
payments out of its capital or profits.
Such a bill being filed by a stockholder to prevent a trust company from
voluntarily making returns for the imposition and payment of a tax
claimed to be unconstitutional, and on the further ground of threatened
multiplicity of suits and irreparable injury, and the objection of adequate
remedy at law not having been raised below or in this court, and the question of jurisdiction having been waived by the United States, so far as it
was within its power to do so, and the relief sought being to prevent the
voluntary action of the trust company and not in respect to the assessment and collection of the tax, the court will proceed to judgment on
the merits.
The doctrine of stare decisis is a salutary one, and is to be adhered to on
proper occasions, in respect of decisions directly upon points in issue;
but this court should not extend any decision upon a constitutional
question, if it is convinced that error in principle might supervene.
In the cases referred to in the opinion of the court in this case, beginning
with Hylton v. United States, 3 Dall. 171, (February Term, 1796,) and
ending with Springerv. United States, 102 U. S. 586, (OctoberTerm, 1880,)
taxes on land are conceded to be direct taxes, and in none of them is it
determined that a tax on rent or income derived from land is not a tax
on land.
A tax on the rents or income of real estate is a direct tax, within the
meaning of that term as used in the Constitution of the United States.
A tax upon income derived from the interest of bonds issued by a municipal corporation is a tax upon the power of the State and its instrumentalities to borrow money, and is consequently repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States.
So much of the act" to reduce taxation, to provide revenue for the government, and for other purposes," 28 Stat. 509, c. 349, as provides for levying
taxes upon rents or income derived from real estate, or from the interest
on municipal bonds, is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States
and is invalid.
Upon each of the other questions argued at the bar, to wit: 1, Whether
the void provision as to rents and income from real estate invalidates

OOTOBER TE RAI, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

the whole act ? 2, Whether as to the income from personal property as
such, the act is unconstitutional as laying direct taxes ? 3, Whether any
part of the tax, if not considered as a direct tax, is invalid for want of
uniformity on either of the grounds suggested ? -the
Justices who
heard the argument are equally divided, and, therefore, no opinion is
expressed.

THis was a bill filed by Charles Pollock, a citizen of the
State of Massachusetts, on behalf of himself and all other
stockholders of the defendant company similarly situated,
against the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, a corporation
of the State of New York, and its directors, alleging that the
capital stock of the corporation consisted of one million dollars, divided into forty thousand shares of the par value of
twenty-five dollars each; that the company was authorized
to invest its assets in public stocks and bonds of the United
States, of individual States, or of any incorporated city, or
county, or in such real or personal securities as it might deem
proper; and also to take, accept, and execute all such trusts of
every description as might be committed to it by any person
or persons or any corporation, by grant, assignment, devise,
or bequest, or by order of any court of record of New York,
and to receive and take any real estate which might be the
subject of such trust; that the property and assets of the company amounted to more than five million dollars, of which at
least one million was invested in real estate owned by the
company in fee; at least two millions in bonds of the city of
New York; and at least one million in the bonds and stocks
of other corporations of the United States; that the net profits or income of the defendant company during the year ending December 31, 1894, amounted to more than the sum of
$300,000 above its actual operating and business expenses, including losses and interest on bonded and other indebtedness;
that from its real estate the company derived an income of
$50,000 per annum, after deducting all county, state, and
municipal taxes; and that the company derived an income
or profit of about $60,000 per annum from its investments in
municipal bonds.
It was further alleged that under and by virtue of the pow-

POLLOCK v. FARIVERS' LOAN & TRUST C0.

431

Statement of the Case.

ers conferred upon the company, it had from time to time
taken and executed, and was holding and executing, numerous trusts committed to the company by many persons, copartnerships, unincorporated associations, and corporations,
by grant, assignment, devise, and bequest, and by orders of
various courts, and that the company now held as trustee for
many minors, individuals, copartnerships, associations, and corporations, resident in the United States and elsewhere, many
parcels of real estate situated in the various States of the
United States, and amounting, in the aggregate, to a value
exceeding five millions of dollars, the rents and income of
which real estate collected and received by said defendant in
its fiduciary capacity annually exceeded the sum of two hundred thousand dollars.
The bill also averred that complainant was and had been
since May 20, 1892, the owner and registered holder of ten
shares of the capital stock of the company, of a value exceeding the sum of $5000; that the capital stock was divided
among a large number of different persons who as such stockholders constituted a large body; that the bill was-filed for
an object common to them all; and that he, therefore, brought
suit, not only in his own behalf as a stockholder of the company, but also as a representative of and on behalf of such of
the other stockholders similarly situated and interested as
might choose to intervene and become parties.
It was then alleged that the management of the stock,
property, affairs, and concerns of the company was committed
under its acts of incorporation to its directors, and charged
that the company and a majority of its directors claimed and
asserted that under and by virtue of the alleged authority
of the provisions of an act of Congress of the United States
entitled, "An act to reduce taxation, to provide revenue for
the government, and for other purposes," passed August 15,
1894, the company was liable and that they intended to pay
to the United States before July 1, 1895, a tax of two per centum on the net profits of said company for the year ending
December 31, 1894, above actual operating and business expenses, including the income derived from its real estate and

OCTOBJE

TERM, 1894.

Statement of the Case.

its bonds of the city of New York; and that the directors
claimed and asserted that a similar tax must be paid upon the
amount of the incomes, gains, and profits, in excess of $4000,
of all minors and others for whom the company was acting
in a fiduciary capacity. And further, that the company and
its directors had avowed their intention to make and file
with the collector of internal revenue for the second district
of the city of New York a list, return, or statement showing
the amount of the net income of the company received during
the year 1894 as aforesaid, and likewise to make and render a
list or return to said collector of internal revenue, prior to
that date, of the amount of the income, gains, and profits of
all minors and other persons having incomes in excess of
$3500, for whom the company was acting in a fiduciary
capacity.
The bill charged that the provisions in respect of said al
leged income tax incorporated in the act of Congress were
unconstitutional, null, and void, in that the tax was a direct
tax in respect of the real estate held and owned by the company in its own right and in its fiduciary capacity as aforesaid,
by being imposed upon the rents, issues, and profits of said
real estate, and was likewise a direct tax in respect of its personal property and the personal prbperty held by it for others
for whom it acted in its fiduciary capacity as aforesaid, which
direct taxes were not in and by said act apportioned among
the several States as required by section 2 of article I of the
Constitution; and that if the income tax so incorporated in
the act of Congress aforesaid were held not to be a direct
tax, nevertheless its provisions were unconstitutional, null,
and void in that they were not uniform throughout the
United States as required in and by section 8 of article I of
the Constitution of the United States, upon many grounds
and in many particulars specifically set forth.
The bill further charged that the income tax provisions of
the act were likewise unconstitutional in that they imposed
a tax on incomes not taxable under the Constitution and likewise income derived from the stocks and bonds of the States of
the United States and counties and municipalities therein,

POLLOCK v. FARIERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

433

Statement of the Case.

which stocks and bonds are among the means and instrumentalities employed for carrying on their respective governments,
and are not proper subjects of the taxing power of Congress,
and which States and their counties and municipalities are independent of the general government of the United States,
and the respective stocks and bonds of which are, together
with the power of the States to borrow in any form, exempt
from Federal taxation.
Other grounds of unconstitutionality were assigned, and the
violation of articles IV and V of the Constitution asserted.
The bill further averred that the suit was not a collusive one
to confer on a court of the United States jurisdiction of the
case, of which it would not otherwise have cognizance, and that
complainant had requested the company and its directors to
omit and refuse to pay said income tax, and to contest the constitutionality of said act, and to refrain from voluntarily making lists, returns, and statements on its own behalf and on
behalf of the minors and other persons for whom it was acting
in a fiduciary capacity, and to apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction to determine its liability under said act, but that
the company and a majority of its directors, after a meeting of
the directors, at which the matter and the request of complainant were formally laid before them for action, had refused
and still refuse, and intend omitting to comply with complainant's demand and had resolved and determined, and intended
to comply with all and singular the provisions of the said act
of Congress, and to pay the tax upon all its net profits or income as aforesaid, including its rents from real estate and its
income from municipal bonds, and a copy of the refusal of the
company was annexed to the complaint.
It was also alleged that if the company and its directors, as
they proposed and had declared their intention to do, should
pay the tax out of its gains, income, and profits, or out of the
gains, income, and profits of the property held by it in its fiduciary capacity, they will diminish the assets of the company and
lessen the dividends thereon and the value of the shares; that
voluntary compliance with the income tax provisions would
expose the company to a multiplicity of suits, not only by and
VOL. cLvII-28

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

on behalf of its numerous shareholders, but by and on behalf
of numerous minors and others for whom it acts in a fiduciary
capacity, and that such numerous suits would work irreparable
injury to the business of the company, and subject it to great
and irreparable damage, and to liability to the beneficiaries
aforesaid, to the irreparable damage of complainant and all its
shareholders.
The bill further averred that this was a suit of a civil nature
in equity; that the matter in dispute exceeded exclusive of
costs the sum of five thousand dollars, and arose under the
Constitution or laws of the United States; and that there was
furthermore a controversy between citizens of different States.
The prayer was that it might be adjudgec and decreed that
the said provisions known as the income tax incorporated in
said act of Congress passed August 15, 1894, are unconstitutional, null, and void; that the defendants be restrained from
voluntarily complying with the provisions of said act, and
making the lists, returns, and statements above referred to, or
paying the tax aforesaid; and for general relief.
The defendants demurred on the ground of want of equity,
and the cause having been brought on to be heard upon the bill
and demurrer thereto, the demurrer was sustained and the bill
of complaint dismissed with costs, whereupon the record recited that the constitutionality of a law of the United States
was drawn in question, and an appeal was allowed directly to
this court.
An abstract of the act in question will be found in the margin.'
1By sections 27 to 37 inclusive of the act of Congress entitled "An act
to reduce taxation, to provide revenue for the government, and for other
purposes," received by the President August 15, 1894, and which, not having
been returned by him to the House in which it originated within the time
prescribed by the Constitution of the United States, became a law without
approval, (28 Stat. 509, c. 349,) it was provided that from and after January 1, 1895, and until January 1, 1900, " there shall be assessed, levied, collected, and paid annually upon the gains, profits, and income received in the
preceding calendar year by every citizen of the United States, whether residing at home or abroad, and every person residing therein, whether said
gains, profits, or income be derived from any kind of property, rents, inter-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS'

LOAN & TRUST CO.

435

Statement of the Case.

By the third clause of section two of Article I of the Constitution it was provided: "Representatives and direct taxes shall
est, dividends, or salaries, or from any profession, trade, employment, or
vocation carried on in the United States or elsewhere, or from any other
source whatever, a tax of two per centum on the amount so derived over
and above four thousand dollars, and a like tax shall be levied, collected,
and paid annually upon the gains, profits, and income from all property
owned and of every business, trade, or profession carried on in the United
States by persons residing without the United States."
" SEc. 28. That in estimating the gains, profits, and income of any person there shall be included all income derived from interest upon notes,
bonds, and other securities, except such bonds of the United States the
principal and interest of which are by the law of their issuance exempt from
all Federal taxation; profits realized within the year from sales of real
estate purchased within two years previous to the close of the year for
which income is estimated; interest received or accrued upon all notes,
bonds, mortgages, or other forms of Indebtedness bearing interest, whether
paid or not, if good and collectible, less the interest which has become due
from said person or which has been paid by him during the year; the
amount of all premium on bonds, notes, or coupons; the amount of sales
of live stock, sugar, cotton, wool, butter, cheese, pork, beef, mutton, or
other meats, hay, and grain, or other vegetable or other productions, being
the growth or produce of the estate of such person, less the amount expended
in the purchase or production of said stock or produce, and not including
any part thereof consumed directly by the family; money and the value of all
personal property acquired by gift or inheritance; all other gains, profits,
and income derived from any source whatever except that portion of the
salary, compensation, or pay received for services in the civil, military,
naval, or other service of the United States, including Senators, Representatives, and Delegates in Congress, from which the tax has been deducted,
and except that portion of any salary upon which the employer is required
by law to Withhold, and does withhold the tax and pays the same to the officer
authorized to receive it. In computing incomes the necessary expenses
actually incurred in carrying on any business, occupation, or profession
shall be deducted and also all interest due or paid within the year by such
person on existing indebtedness. And all national, state, county, school,
and municipal taxes, not including those assessed against local benefits, paid
within the year shall be deducted from the gains, profits, or income of the
person who has actually paid the same, whether such person be owner,
tenant, or mortgagor; also losses actually sustained during the year,
incurred in trade or arising from fires, storms, or shipwreck, and not
compensated for by insurance or otherwise, and debts ascertained to be
worthless, but excluding all estimated depreciation of values and losses
within the year on sales of real estate purchased within two years previous
to the year for which income is estimated: Provided, That no deduction
shall be made for any amount paid out for new buildings, permanent im-

OCTOBER TERi,

1894.

Statement of the Case.

be apportioned among the several States which may be
included within this Union, according to their respective numprovements, or betterments, made to increase the value of any property or
estate: .Providedfurther, That only one deduction of four thousand dollars
shall be made from the aggregate income of all the members of any family,
composed of one or both parents, and one or more minor chidren, or
husband and wife; that guardians shall be allowed to make a deduction
in favor of each and every ward, except that in case where two or more
wards are comprised in one family, and have joint property interests, the
aggregate deduction in their favor shall not exceed four thousand dollars:
And providedfurther, That in cases where the salary or other compensation
paid to any person in the employment or service of the United States shall
not exceed the rate of four thousand dollars per annum, or shall be by fees,
or uncertain or irregular in the amount or in the time during which the
same shall have accrued or been earned, such salary or other compensation
shall be included in estimating the annual gains, profits, or income of the
person to whom the same shall have been paid, and shall include that portion of any income or salary upon which a tax has not been paid by the
employer, where the employer is required by law to pay on the excess over
four thousand dollars: Provided also, That in computing the income of any
person, corporation, company, or association there shall not be included the
amount received from any corporation, company, or association as dividends
upon the stock of such corporation, company, or association if the tax of
two per centum has been paid upon its net profits by said corporation, company, or association as required by this act.
"SEc. 29. That it shall be the duty of all persons of lawful age having
an income of more than three thousand five hundred dollars for the taxable
year, computed on the basis herein prescribed, to make and render a list or
return, on or before the day provided by law, in such form and manner
as may be directed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, to the collector or a deputy
collector of the district in w~ich they reside, of the amount of their
income, gains, and profits, as aforesaid; and all guardians and trustees,
executors, administrators, agents, receivers, and all persons or corporations
acting in any fiduciary capacity, shall make and render a list or return
as aforesaid, to the collector or a deputy collector of the district in which
such person or corporation acting in a fiduciary capacity resides or does
business, of the amount of income, gains, and profits of any minor or
person for whom they act, but persons having less than three thousand
five hundred dollars income are not required to make such report; and the
collector or deputy collector shall require every list or return to be verified
by the oath or affirmation of the party rendering it, and may increase the
amount of any list or return if he has reason to believe that the same is
understated; and in case any such person having a taxable income shall
neglect or refuse to make and render such list and return, or shall render
a wilfully false or fraudulent list or return, it shall be the duty of time

POLLOCK v. FARMERS'

LOAN & TRUST CO.

437

Statement of the Case.

bers, which

shall be determined by adding to the whole number
of free persons, including those bound to service for a term of
collector or deputy collector, to make such list, according to the best information he can obtain, by the examination of such person, or any other evidence, and to add fifty per centum as a penalty to the amount of the tax due
on such list in all cases of wilful neglect or refusal to make and render a list
or return; and in all cases of a wilfully false or fraudulent list or return hayiug been rendered to add one hundred per centum as a penalty to the amount of
tax ascertained to be due, the tax and the additions thereto as a penalty to be
assessed and collected in the manner provided for in other cases of wilful
neglect or refusal to render a list or return, or of rendering a false or
fraudulent return." A proviso was added that any person or corporation
might show that he or its ward had no taxable income, or that the same had
been paid elsewhere, and the collector might exempt from the tax for
that year. "Any person or company, corporation, or association; feeling
aggrieved by the decision of the deputy collector, in such cases may appeal
to the collector of the district, and his decision thereon, unless reversed by
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, shall be final. If dissatisfied with
the decision of the collector such person cr corporation, company, or association may submit the case, with all the papers, to the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue for his decision, and may furnish the testimony of witnesses to
prove any relevant facts having served notice to that effect upon the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, as herein prescribed." Provision was made
for notice of time and place for taking testimony on both sides, and that no
penalty should be assessed until after notice.
By section 30 the taxes on incomes were made payable on or before July
1 of each year, and five per cent penalty levied on taxes unpaid, and
interest.
By section 31, any non-resident might receive the benefit of the exemptions provided for, and "in computing income he shall include all income
from every source, but unless he be a citizen of the United States lie shall
only pay on that part of the income which is derived from any source in
the United States. In case such non-resident fails to file such statement,
the collector of each district shall collect the tax on the income derived
from property situated in his district, subject to income tax, making no
allowance for exemptions, and all property belonging to such non-resident
shall be liable to distraint for tax: Provided, That non-resident corporations shall be subject to the same laws as to tax as resident corporations,
and the collection of the tax shall be made in the same manner as provided
for collections of taxes against non-resident persons."
" SEc. 32. That there shall be assessed, levied, and collected, except as
herein otherwise provided, a tax of two per centum annually on the net
profits or income above actual operating and business expenses, including
expenses for materials purchased for manufacture or bought for resale,
losses, and interest on bonded and other indebtedness of all banks, banking
institutions, trust companies, saving institutions, fire, marine, life, and other

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

years, and excluding Indians not taxed, three-fifths of all other
persons." This was amended by the second section of the
insurance companies, railroad, canal, turnpike, canal navigation, slack
water, telephone, telegraph, express, electric light, gas, water, street railway companies, and all other corporations, companies, or associations
doing business for profit in the United States, no matter how created and
organized but not including partnershlps."
The tax is made payable "on or before the first day of July in each year;
and if the president or other chief officer of any corporation, company, or
association, or in the case of any foreign corporation, company, or association, the resident manager or agent shall "neglect or refuse to file with the
collector of the internal revenue district in which said corporation, company, or association shall be located or be engaged in business, a statement verified by his oath or affirmation, in such form as shall be prescribed
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, showing the amount of net profits or income received
by said corporation, company, or association during the whole calendar
year last preceding the date of filing said statement as hereinafter required,
the corporation, company, or association making default shall forfeit as a
penalty the sum of one thousand dollars and two per centum on the amount
of taxes due, for each month until the same is paid, the payment of said
penalty to be enforced as provided in other cases of neglect and refusal to
make return of taxes under the internal revenue laws.
"The net profits or income of all corporations, companies, or associa.
tions shall include the amounts paid to shareholders, or carried to the
account of any fund, or used for construction, enlargement of plant, or any
other expenditure or investment paid from the net annual profits made or
acquired by said corporations, companies, or associations.
"That nothing herein contained shall apply to States, counties, or municipalities; nor to corporations, companies, or associations organized and
conducted solely for charitable, religious, or educational purposes, including fraternal beneficiary societies, orders, or associations operating upon
the lodge system and providing for the payment of life, sick, accident, and
other benefits to the members of such societies, orders, or associations
and dependents of such members; nor to the stocks, shares, funds, or
securities held by any fiduciary or trustee for charitable, religious, or
educational purposes; nor to building and loan associations or companies
which make loans only to their shareholders; nor to such savings banks,
savings institutions or societies as shall, first, have no stockholders or
members except depositors and no capital except deposits; secondly, shall
not receive deposits to an aggregate amount, in any one year, of more than
one thousand dollars from the same depositor; thirdly, shall not allow an
accumulation or total of deposits, by any one depositor, exceeding ten thousand dollars; fourthly, shall actually divide and distribute to its depositors,
ratably to deposits, all the earnings over the necessary and proper expenses
of such bank, institution, or society, except such as shall be applied to sur-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS'

LOAN & TRUST CO.

439

Statement of the Case.

Fourteenth Article, declared ratified July 28, 1868, so that the
whole number of persons in each State should be counted,
plus; fifthly, shall not possess, In any form, a surplus fund exceeding ten
per centum of its aggregate deposits; nor to such savings banks, savings
institutions, or societies composed of members who do not participate in
the profits thereof ana which pay interest or dividends only to their depositors; nor to that part of the business of any savings bank, institution, or
other similar association having a capital stock, that is conducted on the
mutual plan solely for the benefit of its depositors on such plan, and which
shall keep its accounts of its business conducted on such mutual plan separate and apart from its other accounts.
"Nor to any insurance company or association which conducts all its
business solely upon the mutual plan, and only for the benefit of its policy holders or members, and having no capital stock and no stock or shareholders, and holding all its property in trust and in reserve for its policy
holders or members; nor to that part of the business of any insurance company having a capital stock and stock and shareholders, which is conducted
on the mutual plan, separate from its stock plan of insurance, and solely
for the benefit of the policy holders and members insured on said mutual
plan, and holding all the property belonging to and derived from said
mutual part of its business in trust and reserve for the benefit of its policy holders and members insured on said mutual plan.
"That all state, county, municipal, and town taxes paid by corporations,
companies, or associations, shall be included in the operating and business
expenses of such corporations, companies, or associations.
"SEc. 33. That there shall be levied, collected, and paid on all salaries of
officers, or payments for services to persons in the civil, military, naval, or
other employment or service of the United States, including Senators and
Representatives and Delegates in Congress, when exceeding the rate of four
thousand dollars per annum, a tax of two per centum on the excess above
the said four thousand dollars; and it shall be the duty of all paymasters
and all disbursing officers under the government of the United States, or
persons in the employ thereof, when making any payment to any officers or
persons as aforesaid, whose compensation is determined by a fixed salary,
or upon settling or adjusting the accounts of such officers or persons, to
deduct and withhold the aforesaid tax of two per centum; and the pay roll,
receipts, or account of officers or persons paying such tax as aforesaid shall
be made to exhibit the fact of such payment. And it shall be the duty of
the accounting officers of the Treasury Department, when auditing the
accounts of any paymaster or disbursing officer, or any officer withholding
his salary from moneys received by him, or when settling or adjusting the
accounts of any such officer, to require evidence that the taxes mentioned in
this section have been deducted and paid over to the Treasurer of the
United States, or other officer authorized to receive the same. Every corporation which pays to any employ6 a salary or compensation exceeding
four thousand dollars per annum shall report thQ same to the collector or

OCTOBER

TERM, 1894.

Statement of the Case.

Indians not taxed excluded, and the provision as thus amended,
remains in force.
deputy collector of his district and said employ6 shall pay thereon, subject
to the exemptions herein provided for, the tax of two per centum on the
excess of his salary over four thousand dollars: -Provided,That salaries
due to state, county, or municipal officers shall be exempt from the income
tax herein levied."
By section 34, sections thirty-one hundred and sixty-seven, thirty-one hundred and seventy-two, thirty-one hundred and seventy-three, and thirty-one
hundred and seventy-six of the Revised Statutes of the United States as
amended were amended so as to provide that it should be unlawful for the
collector and other officers to make known, or to publish amount or source of
income under penalty; that every collector should " from time to time cause
his deputies to proceed through every part of his district and inquire after
and concerning all persons therein who are liable to pay any internal revenue
tax, and all persons owning or having the care and manhgement of any
objects liable to pay any tax, and to make a list of such persons and enumerate said objects;" that the tax returns must be made on or before the first
Monday in March; that the collectors may make returns when particulars
are furnished; that notice be given to absentees to render returns; that
collectors may summon persons to produce books and testify concerning
returns; that collectors may enter other districts to examine persons and
books; and may make returns; and that penalties may be imposed on false
returns.
By section 35 it was provided that corporations doing business for profit
should make returns on or before the first Monday of March of each year
"of all the following matters for the whole calendar year last preceding
the date of such return:
"First. The gross profits of such corporation, company, or association,
from all kinds of business of every name and nature.
"Second. The expenses of such corporation, company, or association,
exclusive of interest, annuities, and dividend.
"Third. The net profits of such corporation, company, or association,
without allowance for interest, annuities, or dividends.
"Fourth. The amount paid on account of interest, annuities, and dividends, stated separately.
"IFifth.The amount paid in salaries of four thousand dollars or less to
each person employed.
"Sixth. The amount paid in salaries of more than four thousand dollars
to each person employed and the name and address of each of such persons
and the amount paid to each."
By section 36, that books of account should be kept by corporations as
prescribed, and inspection thereof be granted under penalty.
By section 37 provision is made for receipts for taxes paid.
By a joint resolution of February 21, 1895, the time for making returns of
income for the year 1894 was extended, and it was provided that "in com-

POLLOCK v. FARfERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

441

Statement of the Case.

The actual enumeration was prescribed to be made within
three years after the first meeting of Congress and within
every subsequent term of ten years, in such manner as should
be directed.
Section 7 requires "all bills for raising revenue shall originate in the House of Representatives."
The first clause of section S reads thus: "The Congress
shall have power to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and
excises, to pay the debts and provide for the common defence
and general welfare of the United States; but all duties, imposts and excises shall be uniform throughout the United
States." And the third clause thus: "To regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the several States, and with
the Indian tribes."
The fourth, fifth, and sixth clauses of section 9 are as
follows:
"No capitation, or other direct, tax -shall be laid, unless in
proportion to the census or enumeration hereinbefore directed
to be taken.
" No tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any
State.
"No preference shall be given by any regulation of commerce or revenue to the ports of one State over those of
another; nor shall vessels bound to, or from, one State, be
obliged to enter, clear, or pay duties in another."
It is also provided by the second clause of section 10 that
"no State shall, without the consent of the Congress, lay any
imposts or duties on imports or exports, except what may be
puting incomes under said act the amounts necessarily paid for fire insurance premiums and for ordinary repairs shall be deducted;" and that "in
computing incomes under said act the amounts received as dividends upon
the stock of any corporation, company, or association shall not be included
in case such dividends are also liable to the tax of two per centum upon the
net profits of said corporation, company, or association although such tax
may not have been actually paid by said corporation, company, or association
at the time of making returns by the person, corporation, or association receiving such dividends, and returns or reports of the names and salaries of
employfs shall not be required from employers unless called for by the
collector in order to verify the returns of employfs."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Air. Guthrie's Argument for Appellants.

absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws;" and,
by the third clause, that "no State shall, without the consent
of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage."
The first clause of section 9 provides: "The migration or
importation of such persons as any of the States now existing
shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by the
Congress prior to the year one thousand eight hundred and
eight, but a tax or duty may be imposed on such importations,
not exceeding ten dollars for each person.
Article V prescribes the mode for the amendment of the
'Constitution, and concludes with this proviso: "Provided
that no amendment which may be made prior to the year one
thousand eight hundred and eight shall in any manner affect
the first and fourth clauses in the ninth section of the first
article."
This case was argued with Hyde v. Continental Tr'ust
Oomnpwny, iNo. 894 and .Moore v. iMiller, No. 915. Hyde v.
Continental Trust Company is disposed of, (post, 654.) in
accordance with the opinion and judgment in this case.
.Moore v. Miller is still undecided; but, as .M'. EZdmunds's
argument for the appellant formed an important part of the
general discussion, it is reported in this connection.
The reporter has had the advantage of consulting stenographic'reports of all the arguments here reported, except that
of L1r. IF/itney, who has been good enough to furnish material for the report of his argument.
jjfr. ]T. -D. Gut hrie for Pollock, appellant in 893, and
Hlyde, appellant in 894. -Mr. Benjamin. H. Bristow, .MA'.
-David Willcox, and Mr.Charles Steele were with him on his
brief.

The provisions as to an income tax contained in the act of
August 28, 1894, are unconstitutional, in that they violate the
requirement of the Constitution as to apportionment in respect
of direct taxes, or as to uniformity in respect of duties, imposts,
and excises.

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

443

Mr. Guthrie's Argument for Appellants.

Congress has no constitutional power to impose taxes, duties,
or excises which shall vary according to ownership of the
subject-matter of the tax, and which shall be at one rate
upon the income of individuals, and at an entirely different
rate upon the income of corporations and of those who derive
their income from corporate profits. It has no power to foster
and aid favored classes of corporations and associations by
arbitrarily exempting them from taxation. It is the fundamental rule of all taxation that there shall be equality of
burden among those of the same class; and that, under wellsettled principles, if a tax be levied upon any citizens at a
higher rate than is imposed upon others of the same class,
having like property, it is depriving the former of their
property without due process of law and taking the same for
public use without just compensation. It is also submitted
that Congress cannot tax income derived from state, county,
and municipal bonds.
The issues in No. 893 and No. 894 are substantially the
same; but in the Pollock suit, No. 893, the interests involved
are larger and more important, and I shall confine the statement of facts to that case. The Farmers' Loan & Trust
Company is one of the largest trust companies in the United
States, and is a private trading.corporation organized under the
laws of the State of New York. It carries on: no business
which a partnership could not transact; it exercises no special
privileges; it performs no public duty; its business -is impressed with no public interest; its capital stock is $1,000,000,
divided into 40,000 shares scattered over the United States
and abroad. The present capital and accumulations exceed
the sum of $5,000,000, and the annual profits amount to over
$300,000. The company owns in its own right real estate
which brings in an income from rents of $50,000 a year. It
also owns $2,000,000 of municipal bonds of the city of New
York, the income of which is over $60,000. It holds one
hundred parcels of real property for minors and other beneficiaries of the value of over $5,000,000, and collects as trustee,
annually, rents exceeding $200,000.
The provisions of the act of 1894 impose a tax of two per

OCTOBER TERAM, 1894.
Mr. Guthrie's Argument for Appellants.

cent upon the gains, profits, and income derived from any
kind of property, including rent and the growth and produce
of land and profits made upon the sale of land if purchased
within two years. Every element that could make real or
personal property a source of value or income to an owner is
taxed. An excise or duty is also imposed upon income derived
from any profession, trade, employment, or avocation. The
tax upon persons generally is not upon their entire income,
but upon the excess over and above $4000. All persons having incomes of $4000 or under are exempted. The whole
burden of the tax falls upon less than two per cent of the
population of the country.
The rate of taxation upon corporations and associations is
in excess of the rate imposed upon individuals and associations. Persons having incomes of $4000 or under pay nothing; corporations having like incomes pay two per cent.
Persons having incomes of over $4000 pay on the excess.
Corporations having like incomes, derived from like property
and like values, pay two per cent upon the entire amount.
Partnerships are expressly exempted from the operation of
the act. An individual owning lands, the rents of which net
him $8000, pays $80, or two per cent upon the excess over
$4000. A corporation or association having like property
pays a tax of two per cent upon the whole $8000, or $160,
double the tax upon the individual. Five individuals as partners own property or carry on business netting them, after
paying all taxes and expenses, $20,000, which they divide
equally. The partnership is entirely exempted from taxation, and each member is exempted. If those same five individuals organized a private trading corporation or association
under the laws of one of the States, and held the property in
that form, they would have to pay an income tax of $400,
simply and solely because they had united their interest in a
corporate or associate form instead of a partnership. In a
word, the rate varies according to the form or nature of ownership. Citizens whose income is $4000 and under, derived
from profits and dividends of corporations, are deprived of
the benefit of the exemption, because their shares or interests

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

445

Mr. Guthrie's Argument for Appellants.

in the profits of corporations are subjected to a tax of two per
cent, while the same income derived from similar business and
similar property by those who carry on business individually
or as partners would be wholly exempted. If the exemption
of the $4000 was to cover the expenses of a household, certainly all persons having all their means invested in corporate
shares equally have their household expenses. Why not exempt them?
The act of 1894 is new in the provisions discriminating
against those whose income is derived from dividends of corporations and in the exemptions from taxation of favored private corporations and associations. Under the old income tax
laws, the business of certain selected classes of corporations,
such as banks, saving institutions, insurance companies and
railroads was taxed. The language of the present act is "all
corporations, companies, or associations, doing business for
profit in the United States, no matter how created and organized, but not including partnerships." The tax upon classes
of corporations under the old law was sustained, not because
it was a tax upon the property of the corporations selected,
but upon the distinct ground that it was an excise upon their
business.
Such was the reason assigned by Mr. Justice
Swayne in the case of Pacific Insurance Co. v. Soule, -7 Wall.
433, and such the ground reiterated by Mr. Justice Miller in
delivering the opinion of the court in Railroad Co. v. Collector., 100 U. S. 595. The bank tax was held to be a tax, not
upon property or income, but upon the act of issuing notes;
not on the obligation itself, but on its use in a particular way.
The judgment in FTeazie Bank v. .Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, followed by N5ational BVnk v. United States, 101 U. S. 1,
clearly shows this to be the true ground.
The act of 1894 not only exempts charitable, religious, and
educational institutions, but it specially excepts from the operation of the tax certain private business concerns, such as building and loan associations, savings banks and mutual insurance
companies - not merely mutual life companies, but all mutual
insurance companies or associations, whether life, fire, marine,
inland, or accident. The exemption is granted without regard

OCTOBER TERIIT, 1894.
Mr. Guthrie's Argument for Appellants.

to the amount of property or income. If the business of an
insurance company is conducted on the stock plan for the
benefit of its shareholders, every dollar of profit is taxed; if
it is carried on for the benefit of its members or policy-holders,
who are but another form of shareholders, it is wholly exempted.
The census reports show the immense accumulations of estates
in the hands of these exempted corporations or institutions.
In the State of :New York, the act exempts hundreds of millions of property.

The census reports show that when the statistics were compiled in 1890 there were 1926 insurance companies transacting
insurance business relating to property, of which 1689 were
doing business on the mutual plan. The assets of all these
companies are not reported, but taking those ascertained, we
find $278,000,000 of assets owned by stock insurance companies
and $1,200,000,000 of assets owned by mutual compants: the
former are subjected to the income tax; the latter are absolutely freed from any such burden simply because the method
or manner of conducting the very same business happens to
be the mutual plan. The amount of tax saved to these
favored mutual companies is at least $1,200,000 per annum.
It is not contended that any doubt exists as to the power
of Congress to tax the property or income of private corporations organized under state laws in the same manner and
at the same rate that it taxes the property and income of
individuals; but it is insisted that the property or income of
corporations or of citizens deriving their income therefrom
cannot be singled out to be assessed and taxed at a higher rate
than the property or income of other individuals or partnerships. If exeinptions are to be granted, then such exemptions must be equally allowed to those who have their means
invested in corporations and who derive their income from
the corporate profits. The question is not whether Congress
can select particular classes of property or income for taxation,
- whether it can tax one article at one rate and another article
at a different rate, - but whether it can prescribe rules of taxation upon like property or like income which shall vary as it
is held or collected by individuals and partnerships on the one

POLLOCK v. FARIMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

447

Mr. Guthrie's Argument for Appellants.

hand or by corporations and their stockholders on the other.
The power of Congress to impose an excise upon certain
peculiar or distinct businesses or occupations is not challenged;
the question is regarding its right to impose an excise tax upon
a particular business or occupation which shall vary as it is
carried on by individuals or by corporations.
Congress has no power, at the expense of others owning
property of the same character, to foster and aid private
trading corporations, such as building and loan associations,
savings banks and mutual life, fire, marine, inland, and accident insurance companies or associations, which serve no
national purpose or public interest whatsoever and which
exist solely for the pecuniary profit of their members. There
seems to be a notion that the courts have heldthat the right
to exempt is one of legislative discretion, and that there is no
check upon it and no limit to its exercise. With us, under
the American system, no power of government is untrammelled or unrestrained. The exercise of the discretion to
exempt must be regulated by some public interest; it cannot
be arbitrary or capricious; there must be some principle of
public policy to support the presumption that the public and
not private interests will be subserved by the exemptions which
are allowed. Private enterprises for the pecuniary profit of
their members can never be aided under the guise of the exercise of the discretion to exempt. Loan Association v. Topeka,
20 Wall. 655; Parkersburgv. Brown, 106 U. S. 487; Cole v.
La Grange, 113 U. S. 1; People v. Eddy, 43 California, 331,
339; State v. Indianapolis,69 Indiana, 375, 378; Barbour v.
Louisville Board of Trade, 82 Kentucky, 645, 65.4, 655; Rail,roadbo. v. Smith, 23 Kansas, 745, 751; Brewer Brick Co. v.
Brewer, 62 Maine, 62, 72; Lexington.v. -McQuillan'sHeirs, 9
Dana, 513, 516, 517; Sutton's Heirs v. Louisville, 5 Dana,
28, 31.
We now come to the question whether these gross inequalities
and discriminations are unconstitutional. Section 8 of Article
I of the Constitution is as follows: "The Congress shall have
power to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises;
to pay the debts and provide for the common defence and

OCTOBER TERiMf, 1894.
Mr. Guthrie's Argument for Appellants.

general welfare of the United States; but all duties, imposts,
and excises shall be uniform throughout the United States."
The contention of the government and of the appellees, in
support .of the act, seems to be that the uniformity required
is simply geographical in character, and does not prohibit
inequality among persons in regard to the same property or
subject of the tax, provided the inequality be uniform throughout the United States. This contention is without merit, and
is certainly not sustained by authority. The true meaning
of that clause in the Constitution is that duties, imposts, and
excises shall bear equally upon the subject of taxation and be
uniform throughout the United States. Loan .Associationv.
Topeka, 20"Wall. 655; Parkersburg v. Brown, 106 U. S. 487;
Cole v. La Grange, 113 U. S. 1; Peoplev. Salem, 20 Aichigan,
452 ; Albany Bank v. MIaher, 9 Fed. Rep. 884; M1obile v. Dargan, 45 Alabama, 310; Davis v. Litchkfteld, 145 Illinois, 313,
327; City of Lexington v. MLcQuillan, 9 Dana, 513; State v.
Readigton, 36 N. J. Law, 66; State v. NVewark, 37 N. T. Law,
415 ; Tide- Water Co.v. Coster, 18 N. J.Eq. 518; S. C. 90 Am.
Dec. 634; State v. Express Co., 60 N. H. 219, 252; Gatlin v.
Tarboro,78 N. C. 119, 122 ; Durach'sAppeal, 62 Penn. St. 491,
494; Taylor v. Chandler,9 Heisk. 349, 356 ; see also Taashington Avenue, 69 Tenn. St. 352, 363; lammett v. Philadelphia,
65 Penn. St. 146, 153; Talbot County v. Queen Anne's County,
50 Maryland, 245, 260; Byerson v. Utley, 16 Michigan, 269;
2M1Cornmack v. Patchin, 53 Missouri, 33.
A tax which imposes one rate upon individuals and a
higher rate upon corporations, which exempts individuals generally to the extent of $4000, but practically denies any such
exemption to those deriving their income from corporate
investments, and which arbitrarily exempts immense accumulations of property in the hands of favored private corporations and associations, is not uniform in any sense or in any
part of the United States.
The court cannot strike out the exemptions and itself remodel the act so as to make it uniform. The act of 1894
must fall because of its utter lack of uniformity. It is not
within the judicial province to make a new law. Itwould be

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

449

Mr. Guthrie's Argument for Appellants.

decreeing as law what Congress deliberately refused to enact.
If these immense accumulations of property had not been exempted, if corporations had not been discriminated against,
the law might never have been passed: at all events,.the rate
of taxation would probably have been reduced to one per
cent. The court will not strike out these exceptions and exemptions so as to give the act an operation which Congress
confessedly never meant. If you annul the exemptions, what
warrant of law would exist for collecting a tax from these
mutual concerns? As Mr. Justice -atthews said in the case
of Spraigue v. Thompson, 118 U. S. 90, 95, delivering the
opinion of the whole court, this would confer "upon the
statute a positive operation beyond the legislative intent, and
beyond what any one can say it would have enacted in view
of the illegality of the exceptions."
But, irrespective of the constitutional limitation, the grant
to Congress of the power to tax necessarily implied the limitation that all taxes should be equal, impartial, and uniform
as to all similarly situated.
The requirement of approximate equality inheres in the
very nature of the power to tax, and it exists whether declared or not in the written Constitution. It may be difficult,
if not impracticable, to obtain absolute equality as between
all classes of property. We recognize that; but there must
be absolute equality as between persons or o-wners of the
same kind of property. The taxing power ihay select land
and omit personal property, or select any particular kind of
personal property and omit land, and the courts cannot interfere; but on whatever subject the tax is imposed, it must
apply equally and uniformly to all owning similar property;
it cannot vary according to ownership; it cannot tax one and
arbitrarily exempt another; it cannot be at one rate for the
individual, and at another rate for the corporation.
The provisions of the Fifth Amendment, prescribing due
process of law and just compensation if private property be
taken for public use, restrain the Federal government from enforcing unequal and partial tax laws.
When the Constitution was adopted, the people expressed
VOL. CLVII-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Guthrie's Arginent for Appellants.

their apprehension that powers not intended to be conferred
might be claimed and exercised by the Federal government,
and that there might be an abuse of taxation. Hamilton
had argued in the Federalist that adequate precautions had
been inserted, and that the door had been closed to partiality
and oppression; but the people insisted on farther specific
restrictions upon Congress, and to that end ten amendments
were proposed at the first session of the First Congress in
.March, 1789.
The Fifth Amendment, thus adopted to restrict the powers
of Congress, provides that no person shall be deprived of life,
liberty, or property, without due process of law, nor shall
private property be taken for public use without just compensation. We contend that an act of Congress which imposes
the burden of a tax upon the property or income of certain
citizens while others owning like property or having like
income are exempted, or which imposes a rate of taxation
upon like subjects which varies according to their ownership,
deprives those discriminated against of their property without
due process of law and arbitrarily takes such property for
public use without just compensation. To impose a tax on
A and B, and exempt C and D similarly situated, is not taxation., but exaction and confiscation. Our conception of the
rights of our clients under the shield and protection of due
process of law finds its definition in the language of the Chief
Justice in Caidwell v. Texas, 13 U. S. 692, 697: "'Due process of law' is so secured by laws operating on all alike and
not subjecting the individual to the arbitrary exercise of the
powers of government, unrestrained by the established principles of private right and distributive justice."
And' further, there can be no doubt that in enacting the
income tax law of 1894, it was the deliberate intention of
Congress to tax the income derived from state, county, and
municipal securities. The precise question as to the power of
Congress to tax income derived from state, county, and municipal bonds has never been decided, but it has often been held
that the instrumentalities of the state governments cannot be,
directly or indirectly, taxed, and of course, a municipal corpo-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

451

Mr. Guthrie's Argument for Appellants.

ration is but a branch of the government of the State. The
authorities fully sustain the proposition that Congress cannot
tax the borrowing powers of the States or their municipalities ; for clearly if the right to tax existed, it would place
the borrowing powers of the States completely at the mercy
of a majority in Congress. Holy Trinity Church v. United
States, 143 U. S. 457 ; Blake v. lJationalBanks, 23 Wall. 307;
Jennisonv. Kirk, 98 U. S. 453; United States v. Union Pacifie
Railroad,91 U. S. 72; American Vet c& Twine Co. v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113;
United States v. Railroad Company, 17 Wall. 322; Weston v.
Cliarleston,2 Pet. 44:9; Wisconsin Central Railroad v. Price
County, 133 U. S. 496, 504; Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117
U. S. 151, 178 ; Ward v. Maryland,12 Wall. 418, 427; Fifield
v. Close, 15 M ichigan, 505; Jones v. Estate of Jee2p, 19 Wisconsin, 369, 373; Sayles v. Davis, 22 Wisconsin, 225; Union
Bank v. I7ill, 3 Coldwell, 325; Warren v. Paul,22 Indiana,
276; State v. Garton, 32 Indiana, 1, 4.
The discrimination in the present case cannot be sustained
upon the theory that the taxing power may classify the various
kinds of property or the various kinds of business for purposes
of taxation. It is not classification to impose a tax at one
rate on the income or business of corporations and at a different
rate upon the same income or the same business if carried on
by individuals or partnerships. Classification to be lawful must
distinguish between different kinds of property, not different ownership, or between different business pursuits, not
between particular or selected individuals or corporations of
the same class. If the difference in the rate of taxation is not
based upon the nature of the property, nor upon the use made
of the property, irrespective of its ownership, then it is based
on ownership and involves a discrimination against particular
owners, which is unlawful. In the present case, corporations
have not been classified as a class, but the same tax is imposed
upon companies or associations as distinguished from corporations, no matter how created and organized. Besides, under
this act, a large class of these corporations, companies, and
associations are withdrawn from the operation of the act, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Seward's Argument for Appellants.

it cannot be said, therefore, that Congress has classified corporations as a class, even if it had the power to do so.
We are not instructed to present any argument which shall
abridge the taxing power of Congress or embarrass the government in any emergency that may now exist or hereafter
arise. Let Congress remodel the act, apportioning direct
taxes and equalizing indirect taxes, within the limitations of
the Constitution, and none more willingly than our clients
will contribute their share of the burden to maintain, defend,
and preserve the national government, even if it shall take
all their property. We ask you to impose no limitation upon
the right of Congress to tax.up to the full measure of the
requirements of the Nation. Recognizing that authority to
tax in its nature must be without limitations except equality
of burden, and that it involves the power to destroy, we are
here to plead that the destruction must result from some
necessity or peril of the Union, and that however the occasion
may arise, the destruction must be equal and uniform and
not of selected individuals or classes: we are here to plead
that Congress cannot sacrifice one - the lowliest or the richest
-for the benefit of others.
r. Clarence A. Seward for Pollock, appellant in 893, and
Hlyde, appellant in 894.
Is an income tax a direct tax within the provisions of the
Federal Constitution? This is a question of fact, to be determined by the meaning of the term "direct tax" at the time
of the adoption of the Constitution.
There is no doubt that that term as used in state statutes
and constitutions at the present day is universally construed
not to be limited to a tax on land, but to include also a tax
on income. How was it in the year 178'7? The theory that
the words "direct taxes," as used in the Constitution, did
not include a tax on income was first judicially voiced in the
Springer case, decided in 1880, 102 U. S. 586. This case was
founded upon Hylton v. United States, 3 Dall. 171, decided
in 1796. Alexander Hamilton, as counsel for the govern-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

453

Mr. Seward's Argument for Appellants.

ment in that case, undertook to define the phrase "direct
taxes" so as to exclude from it a tax on carriages. He said:
"The following are presumed to be the only direct taxes:
Capitation or poll taxes; taxes on lands and buildings; general assessments, whether on the whole property of individuals, or on their whole real or personal property. All else
must of necessity be considered as indirect taxes."
When the case passed into the hands of the court, Mr.
Justice Paterson said: "Whether direct taxes, in the sense of
the Constituti4In, comprehend any other tax than a capitation
tax and a tax on land, is a questionable point." -r. Justice
Chase said: "I am inclined to think, but of this I do not give
a judicial opinion, that the direct taxes contemplated by the
Constitution are only two; to wit, a capitation or poll tax
simply, and a tax on land. I doubt whether a tax by a general assessment of personal property within the United States
is included within the term 'direct tax.' " Mr. Justice Iredell
said : "Perhaps a direct tax, in the sense of the Constitution,
can mean nothing but a tax on something inseparably annexed
to the soil. A land or poll tax may be considered of this
description. In regard to other articles, there may possibly
be considerable doubt."
There was no evidence adduced by Mr. Hamilton in support of his presumption. The question arose solely and
wholly upon the statement by him that that was his presumption. It is upon this presumption of Mr. Hamilton and
these three doubtful expressions of judicial opinion that the
subsequent decisions of this court in Pacific Insurance Comnpany v. Soule, 7 Wall. 433; 7eazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall.
533; Scholey v. Rew, 23 Wall. 331; and Springer v. United
States, 102 U. S. 586, were founded.
If the conclusion reached in the Hylton case was unsupported by evidence-was in direct antagonism to the evidence as it exists-and which was not produced or passed
upon- and if a time of peace is more favorable for an absolute disassociation from political atmosphere than was possible when the Springer case was decided, then the rule of
stare decisis ought not to constitute a bar to a new exami-

OOTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Seward's Argument for Appellants..

nation of the question involved, upon grounds not heretofore
presented, nor the reaching of a different conclusion, if such a
conclusion can be judicially justified. -Lelotp v. Miobile, 127
U. S. 640.
In considering this question, this court has supplied in .urartin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 323; Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 1, 188; and Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 192 Pet.
657, 721, rules for the interpretation of the Constitution.
Words are to be taken in their natural sense, and the courts
may resort to such sources of judicial information as are
resorted to by all courts in construing statutes.
Is there any persuasive evidence that the framers of the
Constitution did not use the words "direct taxes" in their
"natural and obvious sense?" Would there be any absurdity or injustice in holding that they did so use them, and that
they intended precisely what they said? Is there any persuasive evidence that they intended to restrict the present meaning of the phrase to a more limited signification, and to reject
therefrom the inclusion of a tax on income?
It would seem, from a reference to such sources of judicial
information as are resorted to by the courts in construing the
Constitution, that these questions must be answered in the
negative. There is no evidence that either the constitutional
convention or the assenting conventions of the several States,
or the people who attended both, used the words "direct
taxes" with any restricted meaning, in an unnatural sense,
or that they intelligently excluded a tax on incomes therefrom. The only qualification of this explicit statement is to
be found in the language of this court in Veazie Bank v.
Fenvo, 8 Wall. 533, 546, where, in treating of the decision in
the Hylton case, the court spoke of Mr. Justice Paterson's
statements as "testimony." There is nothing either in
Elliott's Debates or Madison's Reports which shows that
the question of the definition of the words "direct tax" or
"direct taxes" ever came before the Philadelphia convention. It was not there discussed, debated, or decided. Under
these circumstances, any opinion which Justice Paterson expressed was an opinion rendered nine years after the conven-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

455

Mr. Seward's Argument for Appellants.

tion had ceased its labors- was his individual opinion, and
was not fortified by any'reference to the evidence. Such an
opinion ought not to be construed as "testimony." Apart
from this so-called testimony no evidence has been produced
before the courts in antecedent cases tending to show that
a tax upon incomes was intentionally excluded by the people
and by the framers of the Constitution from the meaning of
the phrase "direct taxes," or that such taxes were limited
to taxes on land only. This conclusion has been reached
only as a matter of opinion, and not as a conclusion founded
upon the weight of evidence.
At the date of the Constitution (1787) the words "direct
taxes" and "indirect taxes" were household words. They were
borrowed from the literature and practice of Great Britain and
the continent of Europe. They are to be found in the literature
of the period, and in the debates of both Federal and state conventions. They had been used in Europe as meaning taxes
which fell directly upon property and its owner, like a land tax
or a tax on incomes, and as meaning taxes of which the ultimate
incidence might fall upon another than the one who originally
paid them, like taxes upon consumption. The inquiry, therefore, now is, whether, when adopted in this country, they
carried with them the signification which universally obtained
elsewhere, or whether they were accepted with a limited and
restricted signification, which confined the meaning of the
words to taxes on land and capitation taxes.
The Articles of Confederation, as originally adopted, provided for a common treasury, to be supplied by the several
States, in proportion to the value of all land within each
State, the taxes for paying that proportion to be levied by
the authority and direction of the state legislatures. But
in 1783 this was amended by providing that this treasury
should be "supplied by the several States in proportion to
the whole number of white and other free citizens and inhabitants, of every age, sex, and condition, including those bound
to servitude for a term of years, and three-fifths of all
other persons, not comprehended in the foregoing description,
except Indians not paying taxes, in each State; which number

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Seward's Argument for Appellants.

shall be triennially taken and transmitted to the United States
in Congress assembled, in such mode as they shall direct and
appoint." 1 Ell. Deb. 95.
Why was this phrase "land, buildings, and improvements
thereon," in the original Articles, stricken out by this amendment? Mr. Rufus King answers this inquiry. He said:
"According to the Confederation, ratified in 1781, the sums
for the general welfare and defence should bb apportioned
according to the surveyed lands and improvements thereon
in the several States; but that it hath never been in the
power of Congress to follow that rule, the returns from the
several States being so very imperfect." 2 Ell. Deb. 36. "In
1778, Congress required the States to make a return of the
houses and lands surveyed; but one State only complied
therewith- New Hampshire. Massachusetts did not. Congress consulted no rule. It was resolved that the several
States should be taxed according to their ability." 2 Ell.
Deb. 45. "Massachusetts has paid while other States have
been delinquent.

.

money were made.

.

.

Requisitions on the States for that

Who paid them? Massachusetts and a
few others. . . . But 81,200,000 have been paid. And
six States have not paid a farthing of it." 2 Ell. Deb. 56.
Therefore, there is this concurrent testimony that the words
"land, buildings, and improvements thereon" were intelligently rejected by the Confederate Congress as not being
either a just, an equal, or a convenient source of revenue for
the Federal government, and if that was the opinion prior
to the adoption of the Constitution, how comes it at a later
day that the.phrase "direct taxes" is to be interpreted as
relating only to a tax on "land, buildings, and improvements
thereon," and thus to place the tax back upon that which
had been previously rejected-as the only source of Federal
taxation ?
In his letter to the Georgia convention of the 10th of October, 1787, Governor Randolph said: "There is another consideration not less worthy of attention-the first rule for
determining each quota by the value of all lands granted or
surveyed, and of the buildings and improvements thereon. It

POLLOCK v. FARMERS'

LOAN & TRUST CO.

457

Mr. Seward's Argument for Appellants.

is no longer .doubted that an equitable, uniform mode of estimating that value is impracticable; and therefore twelve States
have substituted the number of inhabitants, under certain
limitations, as the standard according to which money is to be
furnished." 1 Ell. Deb. 484.
This amendment to the Articles of Confederation was sent
forth by Congress to the people, accompanied by an address
prepared by Messrs. Madison, Ellsworth, and Hamilton. In
this, when speaking of population as the rule of taxation, they
said: "This rule, although not free from objection, is liable
to fewer than any other that could be devised. The only
material difficulty which attended it in the deliberations of
Congress was to fix the proper difference between the labor
and industry of free inhabitants and of all other inhabitants.
The ratio ultimately agreed to was the result of mutual
concessions."
Two of the States accepted these amendments in full. All
the others accepted the first part, which related to the appropriation by them of substantial and effectual revenues for the
support of the general government, as they might deem most
convenient. Two of the States, New York and Georgia, did
not act upon the amendments at all (Jour. of Congress,
1783-4); but the fact remains that from the time of their
adoption by the Confederate Congress until the decision in
the Hylton case, land and buildings and improvements thereon
were never thereafter regarded as the source of revenue for the
Federal government. It results, therefore, that after "land,
buildings, and improvements thereon" were withdrawn as a
subject of Federal taxation, the requisitions of Congress were
met by the States by their own system of taxation. What
was that system ?
A careful examination of state legislation prior to 1787
establishes that the States of Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, New Jersey, Virginia, and
South Carolina assessed their citizens upon their profits from
their professions, trades, and employments, and collected a tax
thereon for the benefit of the States and of the general government.

OCTOBER TERMT, 1894.
Mr. Seward's Argument for Appellants.

In addition to these taxes upon income, nearly dIi the States
imposed poll taxes, taxes on lands, on cattle of all kinds, and
various kinds of personal property.
How were all these taxes known to the people of the States
at the time when they were paying them?
The Century Dictionary says: "In the United States, all
state and municipal taxes are direct, and are levied upon the
assessed valuations of real and personal property." Cooley
and the American Cyclopoedia also assert that all state taxes
are direct taxes. But there is more persuasive evidence as to
what kind of taxes the people at the time called those which
they were paying in the States for the joint support of the
States and of the general government.
In the -Massachusetts convention, Mr. Dawes said: "Congress had it not in their power to draw a revenue from commerce, and therefore multiplied their requisitions on the States.
Rassachusetts, willing to pay her part, made her own trade
law, on which the trade departed to such of our neighbors as
made no such impositions on commerce; thus we lost what
little revenue we had, and our only course was, to a direct
taxation." 2 Ell. Deb. 41.
Mr. 2Nicholas, in Virginia, said: " Nine-tenths of the revenues of Great Britain and France are raised by indirect taxes;
and were they raised by direct taxes, they would be exceedingly oppressive. At present the reverse of this proposition
holds in this country, for very little is raised by indirect taxes.
The public treasuries are supplied by means of direct taxes,
which are not so easy for the people." 3 Ell. Deb. 99.
Mr. Iredell, of North Carolina, said: " Our state legislature
has no way of raising any considerable sums but by laying
direct taxes. Other States have imports of consequence. This
may afford them a considerable relief; but our State, perhaps,
could not have raised its full quota by direct taxes without
imposing burdens too heavy for the people to bear." 4 Ell.
Deb. 146.
Gouverneur Morris, in his observations on the Finances of
the United States, says, two years after the Constitution was
adopted: "There is a concurrent jurisdiction respecting internal or direct taxes."

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

459

Mr. Seward's Argument for Appellants.

In his report to Congress, in 1812, Albert Gallatin said:
"The direct taxes laid by the several States during the last
years of the Revolutionary War were generally more heavy
than could be paid with convenience; but during the years
1785 to 1789, an annual direct tax of more than two hundred thousand dollars was raised in Pennsylvania, which was
not oppressive, and was paid with great punctuality."
This establishes the fact that all the taxes which the people
were paying in 1787 were, according to their common understanding, expressed in their conventions, and expressed afterwards in the writings of those who had been constituents of
the State at the time, direct taxes; that such direct taxes
were paid out of income, and were so paid for the support of
the Federal government. True, they were collected by state
officers, but the fact that it is now proposed to collect them
out of income by Federal officers, does not seem to change
the income tax from the direct tax of 1787 into the indirect
tax of 1894.
The inquiry now arises, whether the practical interpretation given to the words "direct taxes" by the people and
the laws of the several States, was in any way limited or
restricted by the proceedings of the Philadelphia convention.
In speaking of this convention this court said, in Daniels v.
Tierney, 102 U. S. 415, 419: "The circumstances which surrounded the convention and controlled its action are a part of
the history of the times, and we are bound to take judicial
notice of them."
In examining the debates it must be borne in mind that
the words "direct taxation" do not occur in the Constitution.
That instrument is limited to the words "direct tax" and
"direct taxes." A careful examination of the debates warrants the assertion that the phrase "direct taxation" as used in
the Philadelphia convention was not always used as a synonym for "direct taxes." The term "direct taxes" implies
one of two things; either the objects upon which the tax is
placed, or the incidence of the tax upon the property and
upon the person of its owner. "Direct taxation," in very
many instances, refers to the modus operandi of collecting

OCTOBER TERi,

1894.

Air. Seward's Argument for Appellants.

the tax; that is, whether the power should be given to
Congress to collect the tax by direct taxation, or whether
the power to collect Federal taxes should be exercised only
after requisitions upon the States had been dishonored.
Mr. Pinckney's draft of the Constitution regulated direct
taxation according to the whole number of inhabitants and
left the power to Congress. Mr. Paterson's resolution authorized Congress to make a requisition upon the basis of population, estimated according to the old Articles of Confederation.
Mr. Wilson introduced a resolution providing that in order
to ascertain the alterations that may happen in the population
and wealth of the several States, a census should be taken;
thus reaffirming the original doctrine that population was
the true criterion and index of wealth, and this resolution
was thereupon adopted: "That in order to ascertain the
alterations that may happen in the population and wealth of
the several States, a census shall be taken."
Then came the appearance of representation, and it was
moved, and agreed to, that direct taxation ought to be
proportioned according to representation, thus striking out
population and substituting the number of representatives as
the basis for the apportionment of direct taxes. The amendment rejected representation as the basis of taxation, and
substituted the old rule of population, computed in the given
manner. It was again moved that representation ought to
be proportioned according to direct taxation, and in order to
ascertain the alterations in the direct taxation which might
be required, that a census should be taken. This was the
introduction of the rule finally adopted, that representation
ought to be proportioned in the same manner as taxation.
There was an animated contest over this proposition, and
there were extended debates over the question whether direct
taxation should be proportioned to representation or according
to population. Finally, on the 16th of July, 1787, this resolution was adopted: "Representation ought to be proportioned
according to direct taxation. And in order to ascertain the
alteration in the direct taxation which may be required, from
time to time, by changes in the relative circumstances of the

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

461

Mr. Seward's Argument for Appellants.

States -- Resolved, That a census be taken,

.

.

.

and that

the legislature proportion the direct taxation accordingly."
There was again a debate over this suggestion, which culminated in the draft of a constitution which apportioned direct
taxation according to the number of the representatives. This
was remodelled, and on the 12th of September, 1787, a revised
draft of the Constitution was introduced, which provided that
"representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned on the
basis of population," and under the rule prescribed by the
Articles of Confederation. On this same 12th of September,
1787, the revised draft of the Constitution contained these
words: "That no capitation tax shall be laid unless in proportion to the census hereinbefore directed to be taken." Then
there came a debate in which these questions were discussed:
The States are asked to give the power of internal taxation,
now exercised by them respectively for the benefit of the general government, directly to Congress, so that it may exercise
such power concurrently with the States, and directly, upon
the property and inhabitants of the States. This was the
understanding of what the States were asked to do, and, after
the constitution was adopted, of what they had done.
In the Massachusetts convention, Mr. Parsons said: "Congress have only a concurrent right with each State, in laying
direct taxes, not an exclusive right; and the right of each
State to direct taxation is equally extensive as the right of
Congress." 2 Ell. Deb. 93.
In New York, Chancellor Livingston said: "It is observed
that, if the general government are disposed, they can levy
taxes exclusively. But they have not an exclusive right.
Their right is only concurrent." 2 Ell. Deb. 346.
Mr. Hamilton said: "Unless, therefore, we find that the
powers of taxation are exclusively granted, we must conclude
that there remains a concurrent authority." 2 Ell. Deb. 363.
The States were also asked to give up their right of laying
imposts and duties on imports and exports, the surrender of
which right would confine them thereafter to their own internal taxes. They said in substance: If we surrender the right
to imposts and duties, and if we divide the power of direct

OCTOB R TERM, 1894.
Mr. Seward's Argument for Appellants.

taxation by giving to Congress a concurrent right with ourselves to lay direct taxes, such as have heretofore existed in
our States, how are we to guard the exercise of this power so

that it shall not be used oppressively?

How is it to be

restricted so that Congress will not have the right to impose
undue burdens upon the States?
The answer to this was: Such restriction can be properly
imposed with justice to ourselves and to Congress by limiting
the exercise of this concurrent power to the rule of population,
which is the index and criterion of wealth. If we give this
power to the Federal government to come into the States and
tax the same objects which we are there taxing, the amount
of such tax on behalf of Congress must be apportioned upon
the basis heretofore obtaining, and so that each State will know
precisely how much it is called upon to contribute.
It would indeed be singular if, when the States were giving
-to the Federal government a concurrent right to levy and collect the direct taxes which they themselves were collecting,
only the right to collect this unjust, unequal, and inconvenient
tax on lands actually passed. This limitation, if it exists, does
not arise from the language which the States used, " direct
taxes," but only from an interpretation which, without supporting evidence, excludes the residue.
The struggle was, first, to require Congress to apply to the
States before having the right of direct taxation ; and second,
if that could not be carried, then to limit the right of direct
taxation to population. Mr. Martin voiced this when he said:
"Many of the members, and myself in the number, thought
that States were much better judges of the circumstances of
their citizens, and what sum of money could be collected from
them by direct taxation, . . . and that the general government ought not to have the power of laying direct taxes in
any case but in that of the delinquency of a State." 1 Ell.
Deb. 369.
That the States believed that they had limited the power of
assessing and collecting direct taxes to the rule of population,
is further clearly shown in the debates in the state conventions. Having relinquished imposts and duties, and given to

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

463

Mr. Seward's Argument for Appellants.

Congress a concurrent power to collect direct taxes, they limited the exercise of the collection of such taxes to the rule of
population. Hence the phrase, "representation and direct
taxes;" hence the phrase, "no capitation tax shall be laid
unless in proportion to the census hereinbefore directed to be
taken." This latter phrase was, on the 14th of September,
1787, amended on motion of Mr. Read of Delaware. He
"moved to insert after 'capitation' the words 'or other direct
tax.' He was afraid that some liberty might otherwise be
taken to saddle the States with the readjustment by this rule
of past requisitions of Congress, and that his amendment, by
giving another cast to the meaning, would take away the pretext." 5 Ell. Deb. 545. Mr. Williamson seconded the motion,
which was agreed to.
The effect of adding the words "or other direct tax," so that
the sentence should read "No capitation or other direct tax
shall be laid, unless in proportion to the census," was to
include therein not only a capitation tax, but also all the
other taxes which the States at that time were collecting to
pay their indebtedness to the general government.
Thus far, therefore, there is nothing in the debates to indicate that the words "direct tax" were to have a restricted
and limited meaning, or were to apply only to taxes on land
and taxes on polls.
Mr. Madison's Journal is printed as the fifth volume of
Elliot's Debates. He there states that "Gouverneur Morris
moved to add to the clause empowering the legislature to vary
the representation according to the principles of wealth and
number of inhabitants, a proviso that taxation should be in
He admitted that
proportion to representation. . .
some objections lay against his motion, but supposed they
would be removed by restraining the rule to direct taxation.
With regard to indirect taxes on exports and imports and on
consumption, the rule yould be inapplicable."
Mr. Morris, having so varied his motion by inserting the
word "direct," it passed as follows: "Provided always, that
direct taxation ought to be proportioned to representation."
5 Ell. Deb. 302.
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Seward's Argument for Appellants.

Mr. Ellsworth moved to amend, in substance, (Id. '302,) so
that the rule of contribution by direct taxation for the support
of the government of the United States should be the rule as
stated in the Articles of Confederation.
In the debates on the 20th of August, 1787, (Id. 451,) Mr.
King of Massachusetts asked what was the precise meaning
of direct taxation? No one answered. This inquiry, it is to
be observed, was not "What is meant by a direct tax, or by
direct taxes?" If so, there would doubtless have been an
answer that by direct taxes was meant such taxes as the
States were then paying; but having asked the question
"What was meant by direct taxation?" he left it to be
inferred that he used the phrase "direct taxation" not with
reference to the objects upon which direct taxes were to be
assessed and collected, but that he had reference to the same
question of modus operandi, and he asked "What was meant
by direct taxation?" that is, whether Congress should have
power to levy and collect the tax, or whether requisitions
therefor should be first made upon the States. The question
was answered by Mr. Gerry, if it related to the modus ope'andi of taxation, for he moved, (5 Ell. Deb. 451,) that "from
the first meeting of the legislature of the United States, until
a census shall be taken, all moneys for supplying the public
treasury by direct taxation shall be raised from the several
States according to the number of representatives respectively
in the first branch."
The motion was lost. The practical result, therefore, was.
that the old words of the amended Articles of Confederation
were taken as affording the standard for both taxation and
representation. The South secured the exclusion of two-fifths.
of its slaves in apportioning the taxes, and the North secured
the exclusion of the same two-fifths in apportioning the representatives. The latter object was attained, as Mr. Morris said,
"incidentally," leaving the ostensible exclusion as referable to
taxes only, as it had been under the Confederation. The
North was satisfied to have the apportionment of representation controlled by the same rule of taxation, and to which
latter rule the States had theretofore consented. So long as.

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

465

Mr. Seward's Argument for Appellants.

the rule was adopted for controlling both representation and
taxation, it was immaterial whether such rule was introduced
"incidentally" or otherwise. The attempt to limit taxation
by representation was defeated, and representation was subjected to the old rule, which had been in force as to taxation
since 1783.
It is evident, therefore, that the interpretation given by the
people and the laws of the several States to the words "direct
taxes" was not limited or restricted by any of the proceedings
of the Philadelphia convention.
And further: It is conclusively and affirmatively established
that the people, as represented by their delegates to the state
conventions called to adopt and ratify the Federal Constitution, did not limit the phrase " direct taxes" to a tax on land
only. The language used by Mr. Dawes and Mr. Adams in
Massachusetts, by Mr. Ellsworth in Connecticut, by Chancellor
Livingston and Mr. Jay in New York, and by Mr. Nicholas,
Mr. Mason, and John Marshall in Virginia, proves this. The
latter said: "The objects of direct taxes are well understood.
They are but few. What are they? Lands, slaves, stock of
all kinds, and a few other articles of domestic property." 5
Ell. Deb. 229.
What were the direct taxes to which he was referring ? Not
the direct taxes of the United States, because the United
States had yet no power to levy any tax, whether direct or
indirect. Therefore, when he spoke of "direct taxes" he was
speaking of them as he understood them and as they existed
in the States and in the State of Virginia, from which he was
a delegate.
Mr. Wolcott, in his Report to Congress, when speaking of
taxes assessed under the laws of Virginia of 1781, 1782, said
that "taxes were assessed on lots and houses in towns;" being
the "lands" of Mr. Marshall ; on "slaves," being the "slaves"
of Mr. Marshall; on "stud horses, jackasses, other horses and
mules," being the "stock of all kinds" of Mr. Marshall;
and on" billiard tables, four-wheeled carriages, phaetons, stage
wagons, and riding carriages with two wheels," being the "few
other articles of domestic property" referred to by Mr. MarVOL. cLvi-S30

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Seward's Argument for Appellants.

shall, as being the objects of direct taxes which were then well
understood.
It is fair to infer from this statement of Mr. Marshall that
if he had been a member of the court at the date of the
decision in the Hiylton case, he would not have concurred in
the opinions of Justices Chase, Paterson and Iredell. When
Congress undertook to pass the law which was under judgment in the Hylton case, Mr. Madison said that he should
vote against it because it was unconstitutional. Why? Because the tax was a direct tax.
It is evident, therefore, that the delegates to the state
conventions understood that by "direct taxes," which the
Constitution gave Congress the power to levy and collect,
they meant not taxes on lands only, but all such taxes as the
States were then levying and collecting, under the name of
"direct taxes," exclusive of duties and imposts on exports and
imports. Chancellor Livingston and Mr. Jay said that direct
taxes meant taxes on land and specific duties, and these were
the kind of taxes which all the States were then levying and
collecting, with the exception of New York, which had a
property tax. The other States had direct taxes on property;
on incomes, on slaves, on stock, and two of them on carriages.
All were taxing by direct taxes that description of property
more or less enumerated by Mr. Marshall. Recalling the fact
that in 1787 there was no standard of Federal taxation from
which can be drawn a definition of the words "1direct taxes ;"
bearing in mind that " direct taxes" were known to the people
of all the States by that name and as "direct taxes," and that
in various of the States such taxes included a tax on incomes, the conclusion is inevitable that both in the Philadelphia convention and in the state conventions the "direct
taxes" referred to by the delegates were those to which they
were accustomed in their own States; that those delegates
used the words "direct taxes" in their natural sense, as the
people then understood them; that they used the phrase " direct
taxes" as a noun of multitude, as Congress to-day speaks of
the Supreme Court, the Army, the Navy, and the United
States without particularizing any member of either.

POLLOCK v. FARMIERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

467

'Mr. Seward's Argument for Appellants.

The phrase " dire ct taxes" was a household phrase known
to all, and is susceptible of definition only in accordance with
the literature; in accordance with the definition placed upon
it by other nations, or it must include the taxes of the period
which the people were then paying in their respective States
for the joint support of the States and of the Federal government ; and those "direct taxes" were not limited to a tax on
lands, but included all the internal taxes which fell upon the
property and upon the person of the citizen of the State who
owned it.
The "presumption" advanced by Mr. Hamilton is overcome
by the historic evidence here produced. Possibly such evidence was not accessible when the Hylton case was argued.
One word as to the literature.
Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations was published in 1776.
It was referred to by the court in the Hylton case. It is
spoken of by Judge Cooley as a book whose maxims had
secured for them universal acceptance. It was a recognized
authority on both sides of the Atlantic. Smith made it clear
that by "direct taxes" he meant taxes on persoW assessed
according to property or income, and as opposed to "indirect
taxes" on expenses or consumption.
Turgot, the French author, lived from 1727 to 1781. He
published in 1764 a work on taxation. He says of its forms:
"There are only three possible: Direct upon the funds; direct
upon the person, which becomes a tax upon labor; the indirect
imposition, or that which is placed upon onsumption."
In the American Museum for January, 1787, this work
of Turgot is quoted, showing that it was then in circulation in
America.
Inasmuch as these words of the Constitution are written
words selected deliberately and discussed, after they were selected, anxiously and patiently by the several States, and that
no question was ever raised until the carriage case as to what
was meant by the term "direct taxes," - as to whether such
phrase in the Constitution had a different interpretation from
what it had when used in the States - the inquiry arises
whether the States have ever given to the judiciary the power

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Seward's Argument for Appellants.

to say that the language so selected and so discussed was to
have a more limited and restricted signification than the
natural sense of the words as they were understood by those
who used them.
If the words "direct taxes" are to be interpreted as being
a tax on land only, then it is to be said that the interpretation
was not placed upon them by the Philadelphia convention, and
was repudiated by the conventions of the several States. It
is a new interpretation, equivalent to substituting a new word.
That the Philadelphia convention, or the conventions of the
States, would have assented to and adopted this new and restricted meaning, and surrendered their judgment as to what
they were then doing to the new meaning, cannot now be
affirmed.
The words had a natural sense; they were commonly understood to mean what they imported; they were used for the
purpose of expressing a fact then existing, and if a new interpretation is to be placed upon them, it must be so placed without the assent of either Federal or state conventions.
If the court is to strike out "direct" and insert "land,"
either by expunging the word "direct" or by interpreting it as
confined in its meaning only to land, it is in effect inserting a
new phrase in the Constitution, which is not there to be found,
and to which the States have never given their assent.
It results, therefore:
(I) That an income tax as a direct tax existed long before
the Constitution; existed in some of the States after the
Constitution, and in one of the States until the present day.
It was as well recognized in the localities as any other
tax. It was known and called a direct tax, as one of the
taxes imposed by the States.
(2) When the words were introduced into the Constitution,
they were used, as Chief Justice Marshall said, "in their
natural sense," and are to be taken, as he also said, "in their
natural and obvious sense." It is not a "natural sense" nor a
"natural and obvious sense" to reject from the taxes which
the people were paying when the words were used, all of such
taxes except a tax on land, and to limit and restrict the words

POLLOCK v. FARRIERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

469

Mr. Whitney's Argument for the United States.

which they did use to that individual tax. The people have
never assented to that restriction in any convention.
(3) If an income tax be a direct tax, then, in order to be
a constitutional tax, it must be apportioned and collected as
such.
(4) Such apportionment and collection do not involve any
practical difficulty.
A1r. Assistant Attorney General Whitney, who appeared by
leave of court, for the United States.
The method by which the questions are presented in the
Pollock and Hyde cases was not chosen with the consent of
the government. The corporations have ample remedy at
law, either by standing on the defensive, or by paying the tax
under protest and suing to recover the amount paid. P]aintiffs would be sufficiently protected by a decree restraining
the corporations from voluntary payment. Yet the bills do
not allege that the corporations intend to pay voluntarily.
No injunction, it is believed, has ever been granted against
the payment of a tax to the United States government; or
against the execution of a law of the United States on the
ground that the law was unconstitutional. It is believed that
in no case can such an injunction properly be granted; and it
is regarded as important not to break the chain of precedent
against such relief. These objections, however, are not jurisdictional in the strictest sense. Hollins -. BJrierfleld Coal Co.,
150 U. S. 371, 380, 381, and cases cited; Insley v. United States,
150 U. S. 512, 515, and are not taken by defendants. In view
of the great public interest aroused, and of the fact that no
cases in proper form are now pending, these objections are
waived on behalf of the govlernment, so far as it is in the
power of its officers to waive them.
As to the method in which the questions are presented in
the .Moore case, the objection to the form of action is not
waived. The appellant had full remedy by suit, to recover
taxes paid under protest (Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137;
Insurance Co. v. Ritchie, 5 Wall. 541 ; City of Philade phia

OCTOBER TERI,

1894.

Mr. Whitney's Argument for the United States.

v. Collector, 5 Wall. 720; Railroad Co. v. Jackson, 7 Wall.
262; Assessors v. Osbornes, 9 Wall. 567; Collector v. Day, 11
Wall. 113; Collector v. Eubbard, 12 Wall. 1; Erskine v. Van
Arsdale, 15 Wall. 75; Barnes v. The Railroads,17 Wall. 294;
Stockdale v. Insurance Cos., 20 Wail. 323; Cheattam v. United
States, 92 U. S. 85; Railroad Co. v. Commissioners, 98 U. S.
541; Raill'oad Co. v. Collector, 100 U. S. 505; Wright v.
Blakeslee, 101 U. S. 174; James v. Ricks, 110 U. S. 272; Manhattan Co. v. Blake, 148 U. S. 412); because the general laws
concerning collection of internal revenue apply to the income
tax. See Stuart v. Maxwell, 16 fow. 150; United States v. 67
Packages of Dry Goods, 17 How. 85; Ring v. .Maxwell, 17
flow. 147; Saxonville .Mills v. Russell, 116 U. S. 13. Hence
a remedy by injunction will not lie. Cheatham v. United
States, 92 U. S. 85; United States v. Pacflc Railroad,4 Dill.
66. This is confirmed by a declaratory statute, IRev. Stat.
 3224; Snyder v. Marks, 109 U. S. 189; State Railroad Tax
Cases, 92 U. S. 575. A taxpayer cannot have a vested right
,ubbard,12 Wall. 1.
in any particular remedy. Collector v.
Proceedings to collect taxes have been, are, and always will be
arbitrary. Fong Yue Ting v. Uhited States, 149 U. S. 698, and
cases cited; Origet v. Hedden, 155 ,U. S. 228. The execution
of a law will not be enjoined on the ground that the law is
unconstitutional. Mississipyi v. Johnson, 4 Wall. 475; Gaines
v. Thonwpson, 7 Wall. 347; Robbins v. Freeland,14 Int. Rev.
Dec. 28, approved in Snyder v. Marks, supra. This follows
from the doctrines that injunction is a remedy correlative to
YZVoble v. Union
mandamus (Gaines v. Thtoinson, &szra;
River Logging Railroad,147 U. S. 165); and that mandamus
will not lie when the law is.doubtful. Bayard v. White, 127
U. S. 246. The constitution does not guarantee to the citizen
all common law and equitable re'rnedies known in 1787. Notwithstanding its provisions he may have a right without any
remedy in a judicial tribunal. -Mc1ntyrev. Wood, 7 Oranch,
504 ; Cary v. Curtis, 3 fow. 236.
The government presents no synopsis or review of economic
writings relating to direct and indirect taxation, or of the discussions upon this point prior to the excise laws of 1794. This

POLLOCK v. FARMERS'

LOAN & TRUST CO.

471

Mr. Whitney's Argument for the United States.

is because the definition of "direct taxes" has been settled,
and the constitutionality of the income tax sustained, by decisions of this court which the government assumes will not be
reconsidered.
Economic definitions are inapplicable. By general consensus of the economists of the present century, a direct tax is a
tax which can be shifted by the taxpayer on to the shoulders of
some other person, as upon a buyer, mortgagor, or tenant.
Whether or not a particular tax can be shifted is in many
instances a difficult question upon which economists are not
agreed. Some taxes can be shifted in part only. It cannot have
been intended that the validity of a tax law should depend upon
such abstruse discussion. See State Tax on 1Railway Gross
Nor was there any settled defiReceipts, 15 Wall. 2847, 294-.
nition of "direct taxes" in the last century. The French
economists, who then had great influence in America, held
that poll taxes and land taxes were direct and all others indirect. No general income tax was then known in Europe.
The English partial income tax of 1759 on salaries, professional receipts, etc., was called a " duty," as distinguished from
a "tax" like tl~e land tax. The inapplicability of the economic definition, however, was settled during Washington's
administration by Congressional construction, confirmed by a
decision of this court. The excise laws of 1794 were hotly
contested in Congress upon constitutional grounds, the opposition being led by Madison. Shortly after the passage of
these laws, a test case was made in Virginia, doubtless upon
consultation with Madison and the other leaders. This was
the carriage tax case of Hlylton v. United States, 3 Dall. 171.
According to strict economic definition, a carriage tax is part
direct and part indirect. It is direct as against pleasure carriages kept for use of their owners; indirect as against carriages belonging to livery stables. The tax is usually classified
by economists as direct. It was held, however, to be a "duty,"
as it had been called by Congress. The inapplicability of economic definitions was further confirmed by practical construction during the period of the war of 1812 by the levy under
the rule of uniformity of taxes which economists would classify

OCTOBER. TERM, 1894.
AMr. Whitney's Argument for the United States.

as direct. Acts of July 24, 1813, c. 24, 3 Stat. 40; Dec. 15,
1814, c. 12, 3 Stat. 148; Jan. 18, 1815, c. 23, 3 Stat. 186 ; Feb.
27, 1815, c. 61, 3 Stat. 217. Similar legislation during and
after the civil war, completed a course of practical construction
which should of itself be conclusive. The economic definition
was then again repeatedly disavowed by this court. In Paific
Rnsurance Co. v. Soule, 7 Wall. 433, the taxes under discussion
included a tax upon dividends and undistributed sums, - in
fact, a complete corporation income tax, -in Sokoley v. 1Rew,
23 Wall. 331, a succession tax upon real estate was discussed;
and in i8pringer v. United States, 102 U. S. 586, an individual
tax. All of these were unanimously sustained. All would be
construed direct taxes by economists. That the true definition
is not the economic definition is indeed shown by the Constitution itself. The distinction there drawn is not between direct
taxes and indirect taxes, but between direct taxes on the one
hand and "duties, imposts, and excises" on the other. This
is radically different from the economic definition. Many or
most excises are direct taxes as understood by economists.
The constitutional definition as "direct taxes," as thus far
settled, is negative in character. The best evidence of the intentions of the friends of the Constitution is to be found in
the Hfylton case, in which two of the concurring Justices
were not only prominent members of the Constitutional Convention, but members who gave especial attention to questions
of taxation. Without definitely so deciding, the court intimated, as stated by Mr. Justice Chase, "that the direct taxes
contemplated by the Constitution are only two, to wit: a
capitation or poll tax simply, without regard to property,
profession or any other circumstance, and a tax on land" (3
Dall. 175) -in other words, the French definition. After a
series of cases in which this question was considered (see particularly Veazie Bank v. BFenno, 8 Wall. 533), this court
finally and deliberately laid down in the Springer case the
following proposition through Mr. Justice Swayne: "Direct
taxes within the meaning of the Constitution are only capitation taxes as expressed in that instrument, and taxes on real
estate." This definition, closing a controversy of 88 years'

POLLOCK v. FARMERS'

LOAN & TRUST CO.

473

Mr. Whitney's Argument for the United States.

standing, should be regarded as one upon which Congress
might implicitly rely.
"Direct taxes," by a more practicable definition, would
mean taxes falling directly upon the thing taxed and, at least
primarily, collectible out of it. Familiar instances are poll
taxes, and in many States land taxes chargeable only against
the land and not a charge against its owner at all. An income tax is less direct than a carriage tax, which may be
made to fall directly upon the carriages by distraint; or even
than an import duty upon goods, which are seizable for nonpayment of the tax. It is not a tax on property at all; it is
a tax not on what a man now has, but on himself, measured
by what he did have, although most of it he may have
already spent.
Not only, however, has this court held an income tax not
to be a direct tax; it has expressly held it to be an excise or
duty. A tax on net income is similar in character to a tax
on gross receipts, and is even less direct. Such taxes have
been often defined as duties or excises. In the Springer case
this court said: "The tax of which the plaintiff in error
complains is within the category of an excise or duty." 102
U. S.602. Besides the Pacifo Insurance and Scholey cases,
we may refer to State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall.
284, 293; Railroad Co. v. Collector, 100 U. S.595, 598; .Xemphi.s & Charleston Railroad Co. v. United States, 108 U. S.
228, 234; -Maine v. Grand Trunk Railway, 142 U. S. 217,
228; -Ficklen v. Shelby County, 145 U. S.1, 24; Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 699; see also 2
Steph. Com. 6th ed. p. 603; Portland Bank v. Aptho , 12
Mass. 252, 256; Commonwealth v. Hamilton Manufacturing
0o. 12 Allen, 298, 307, aff. 6 Wall. 632; Commonwealth v.
Lancaster Savings Bank, 123 Mass. 493; Connecticut -Ins. Co.
v. Commonwealth, 133 Mass. 161; Minot v. Winthrop, 162
Mass. 113.
If the tax were an excise and also a direct tax, the former
term governs. It is more specific, and, as held in the Hylton
ease, the rule of apportionment as applied to "direct taxes"
was "the work of compromise" and "radically wrong'" as

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
.Mr. Whitney's Argument for the United States.

well as impracticable, and therefore "not to be extended by
construction." The two words, however, are used exclusively
by the Constitution, and whatever is an excise cannot be a
direct tax within the meaning of that instrument.
Next as to the "uniformity clause." This is geographical
in character and means that the tax must be the same in each
State as it is in every other State. The construction is clear
from a comparison of the two clauses under consideration.
The words "uniform throughout the United States" are evidently used in contradistinction to the words "apportioned
among the several States

.

.

.

according to their respec-

tive numbers." Itis also well established. Head.Money Cases,
112 U. S.580, 594; Miller on Constitution, pp. 240, 241; Pomeroy's Constitutional Law,  280, 287; 1 Story on the Constitution  957. Moreover, the history of the Constitutional
Convention of 1787 shows clearly that its members had in
mind uniformity between the different States and not uniformity between different classes of individuals. The same phraseology is elsewhere used in the same article with reference to
naturalization and bankruptcy. The uniformity requirement
as to these has never been supposed to be other than geographical.
While the "uniformity clause" is merely geographical in
character, there is, however, a certain degree of uniformity
involved in the very word "tax;" a uniformity requirement
involved in the definition of that word and guaranteed by the
Fifth Amendment to the Constitution. While A cannot be
taxed merely to benefit ]B (Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386; Loan
Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655; Cole v. La Grange, 113
U. S.1; Pomeroy's Constitutional Law,  295 c; Miles Planting & M1anufacturing Co. v. Carlisle,Ct. App. Dist. Columbia,
January 8, 1895), so on the other hand, if A and B belong to
the same class, we may concede that they are to be taxed
alike. A special tax cannot be laid upon A simply because he
is A and not B. Such a law would be an attempt to exercise
not a taxing power, but the power of eminent domain, and,
would require compensation for the property taken. Thus the.
constitution of Pennsylvania provides that taxes shall be "uni-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

475

Mr. Whitney's Argument for the United States.

form on the same class of subjects;" while the Supreme Court
of that State has decided that this requirement is merely declaratory. .itty Boup's Case, 92 Penn. St. 211.
The question, therefore, arises, how far the legislative power
of classification extends. Most decisions in State courts are
inapplicable, as they construe provisions not found in the Federal Constitution. Under the Pennsylvania requirement above
quoted, the power of classification is very extensive. Commonwealth v. Germania Brewing Co., 145 Penn. St. 83, 86, 89;
Commonwealth v. National Oil Co., 157 Penn. St. 516. In
the absence of special Constitutional restrictions, similar latitude has been allowed by this and other courts. Bell's Gap
Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania,134 U. S. 232, 237; ilome Ins.
Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594, 606, 607; Pacific Express
Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 339, 351 ; Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S.
657, 662; -Matter of -McPherson,104 N. Y. 306, 316, 317, 318;
Gibbons v. District of Columbia, 116 U. S. 404, 408; Cooley
on Taxation, 2nd ed., p 164.
Congress in this act has simply exercised its right of classification. The provisions now objected to are nearly all to be
found in the income tax laws of the war and reconstruction
period, and many are general in all similar fiscal systems. It
is impossible to construe this law and discuss its constitutionality or application without understanding its underlying
principle. This principle is one of compensation. Certain
principles of taxation are well settled, and almost universally
recognized: first, that'taxes on consumption bear unduly hard
upon the poor and upon what is called by the economists the
lower middle class, financially speaking, because the comparatively poor consume all or nearly all of their income; second,
that the fairest method of equalizing taxation is by an income
tax with an exemption of all incomes below a certain amount.
John Stuart Mill's Political Economy, Vol. 2, p. 476; Sir Robert Peel, quoted by Senator Sherman, Cong. Globe, May 23,
1870, p. 381; Senator Fessenden, Id. July 25, 1861, p. 255;
Senators Sumner and Trumbull, Id. May 28, 1864, pp. 2512-15;
Senator Sherman, Id. May 23, 1870, Appendix, pp..377-380;
and March 15, 1872, p. 1708. This exemption approximately

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Whitney's Argument for the United States.

represents the incomes which, prior to the establishment of
the income tax, bore more than their fair share of taxation.
Economists and statesmen differ as to the advisability of
adopting this method of compensation. Many urge that the
familiar objections to it as inquisitorial, productive of dishonesty, discriminating against the honest, etc., are sufficient to
counterbalance its advantages. Such practical considerations
are exclusively for the economists and statesmen and not for
the court to decide. Pennington v. Coxe, 2 Cranch, 33, 59.
The various objections upon the score of uniformity will
now be considered in their order.
The minimum of $4000.

This has already been explained.

It is the limit fixed by Congress as dividing the incomes previously unduly taxed from those previously unduly favored.
The whole attack on the justice of this minimum feature is
based upon a fundamental fallacy; upon the notion that the
income tax stands alone instead of forming part of a general
fiscal system, the different parts of which are set to balance
each other in approximation to that equality which in its perfection is "a baseless dream." Head loney Cases, 112 U. S.
580, 595. All our previous income tax laws contained a similar minimum provision, and some of them levied graduated
taxes. The last previous one, that of July 14, 1870, c. 255, 16
Stat. 256, taxed only incomes over $2000. The same is true
of all or nearly all similar laws, past and present, domestic
and foreign. Personal property and succession taxes and
many others carry a like exemption. The uniformity clause
of the Constitution applies to import duties as well as to internal taxes. From 1846 to 1861 import duties were ad valorem,
entirely. At all other periods they have been partly specific,
although specific duties are notoriously unequal, bearing harder
on the poor than on the rich. Instances have also been common of compound duties classifying the same article according
to value with a series of minimum rates (Arthur v. 7ietor, 127
U. S.572, 575; Hedden v. Robertson, 151 U. S.520, 521), and

exempting all imports below a certain value. A'thur'v. Morgan, 112 U. S.495, 498. Our first excise act taxed city distilleries at one rate and country distilleries at another. Act of

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST 00.

477

Mr. Whitney's Argument for the United States.

March 3, 1791, c. 15, 1 Stat. 199. The next provided for drawbacks on distilled spirits, but not on any quantity less than
100 gallons. Act of May 8, 1792, c. 32, 1 Stat. 267. The
early excise acts also contain minimum provisions. Act of
June 9, 1794, c. 65, 1 Stat. 397; acts of January 18, 1815, c.
22, 3 Stat. 180; c. 23, 3 Stat. 186. This legislation is a Congressional assumption of the very widest possible powers of
classification. Having stood so lQng unquestioned, it constitutes a practical construction of the Constitution which should
be conclusive. Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 691; tcPherson v. Blacker, 146 U. S. 1. Similar minimum provisions are
familiar in the succession taxes levied by the States. -Minot
v. Winthrop, 162 Mass. 113; Matter of McPherson, 104 N. Y.
306. In Rome Insurance Co. v. 2lew York, 119 U. S. 129;
122 U. S. 636; 134 U. S. 594, 607, this court sustained under
the Fourteenth Amendment a law taxing corporations dividing over 6 per cent per annum by one system, and those. dividing less at one wholly different, Mr. Justice Field saying:
"All corporations, joint-stock companies, and associations of
the same kind are subjected to the same tax. There is the
same rule applicable to all under the same conditions in determining the rate of taxation. There is no discrimination in
favor of one against another of the same class." Minimum
provisions are familiar in exemptions from levy on execution
and bankruptcy laws, laws relating to criminal as well as civil
procedure, right of appeal, qualification of jurors and sometimes of voters.
Objection is further made that but one exemption is allowed
to each family, whether its income belong to one member or is
contributed by more than one -that is, when the family consists of husband and wife, or parents and minor children, so that
the income is combined by the common law. This is a corollary
to the reasoning upon which the law is based. Two families of
equal size and pecuniary ability may be presumed to suffer to
the same extent from taxes upon consumption, whether the income all belongs to one member of the family, or not.
It is further said that a corporation is not allowed to deduct
$4000 from its income before paying the tax, as is the case

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Whitney's Argument for the United States.

with an individual. The reason is plain. This is not a tax
upon gross income, but a tax upon net income. The net
income of a corporation is radically different in character from
that of an individual. Among the elements which go to make
up the so-called net profits or income of an individual is that
known to economists as "wa o es of superintendence" or the
value of the labor of the individual himself. See .Muser v.
.M1agone, 155 U. S. 240. The individual business man does not
pay himself wages or keep any account representing his estimate of the value of his own services. Everything that he
makes over and above what he pays out to somebody else
must be returned as net income. The net income of a corporation, on the other hand, contains no such element. The
" wages of superintendence" consist of the salaries of its
managers and is counted as an expense. When the individual owner of a business incorporates it, he at once begins
to pay himself a salary from the funds of the corporation.
If, therefore, the corporation were allowed the same minimum as an individual, there would be a lack of uniformity
prejudicial to the individual.
.Neat as to exemptions. The law exempts certain classes of
corporations from taxation. Some of these exemptions are
contained also in the prior income tax laws'. The power to
exempt is well settled. Bank of Commerce v. -New York
City, 2 Black, 620, 631; Home of the -Friendlessv. Rouse, 8
Wall. 430, 438; Welch v. Cook, 97 IT. S. 541; Bell's Gap
-Railroadv. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237. Congress
thought that by making these exemptions it was encouraging
thrift and providence on the part of the poor. (Cong. Rec.,
April 29, 1894, p. 5190; June 9, 1894, pp. 6565, 6568; June 22,
1894, p. 7828; see Stat. 16 and 17 Viet. c. 34,  49, 54; 5 and
6 Vict. c. 35,  88; Barry on Bldg. Soc.,  1, 2, and pp. 48, 111,
112; Endlich Law of Bldg. Asso.,  1; Zoan Association
v. .Jforgan, 57 Alabama, 53; Acts of June 30, 1861, c. 173,
 120; July 14, 1870, c. 255,  15.)
The incomes exempted
are comparatively small in total amount, although large in
actual figures. Their inclusion cannot, therefore, be regarded
as a vital part of the whole scheme of taxation; hence, if the

POLLOCK v. FARMIERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

479

Mr. Whitney's Argument for the United States.

exemption is improper, it does not invalidate the law in toto.
Supervisors v. Stanley, 105 U. S. 305, 312; 11untington v.
1forthen, 120 U. S. 97, 102; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649,
695-6.
The other objections to the law as a whole do not seem to
be seriously pressed. It is no objection to a tax that it is
measured in part by income received prior to the passage of
the act. Stockdale v. Insurance Companies, 20 Wall. 323;
Railroad Company v. Rose, 95 U. S. '78; Locke v. _Yew Orleans,
4 Wall. 172; Gray v. Darlington,15 Wall. 63, 66 ; Wright v.
Blakeslee, 101 U. S. 174. If there be anything invalid in the
administrative provisions of the law (a subject which we do
not discuss), the whole law is not thereby invalidated.
The claimed exeemption of rentals. Such a claim is made in
briefs filed. It is submitted that this tax on income, so far as
the income is from rentals, is not a tax on the land rented and
is therefore not a direct tax. "The tax is payable by the person because of his income, according to its amount and without
any reference to the way in which it was obtained. .Memphis
& Charleston Railroad v. United States, 108 U. S.228, 234.
See State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284; Osborne v. 3tobile, 16 Wall. 479, 481; 3Murray v. Chiarleston, 96
U. S.432, 446; Philadephia Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania,
122 U. S.326, 344, 345.
This law does not contain any tax measured by land values.
Land may have a good selling value, but little or no rental
value; a high present rental value, but a low stipulated rental;
a high stipulated rental, but little or no collections. Moreover, the value of land is quite independent of mere temporary
taxes or assessments laid by States and municipalities; and
is never affected by the question whether the losses by fire,
incurred during the past year, were compensated to the owner
by insurance. Nevertheless, in estimating for the income tax,
he is allowed for all such taxes, and is allowed for all losses
not compensated by insurance, while disallowed the rest.
Finally, these net rentals thus estimated are then lumped
with all other sources of income and subjected to a deduction
to offset the estimated average excess of expenditure in duties

OCTOBER TERMe,

1894.

Mr. Whitney's Argument for the United States.

upon articles of consumption from the first $4000 of one's
income. Hence, the measure of this tax does not bear the
slightest proportion to the values of land.
Moreover, the tax on land, when it is a direct tax, is a tax
upon, and collectible out of, the land itself. Here there is
not even a lien, for the tax, upon the land whose rentals have
entered into the gross income of the tax-payer.
An income tax is no more a tax on land than is a succession
tax when the succession is to land. Scholey v. Rew, 23 Wall.
331, is, therefore, in point. In that case the tax was even
made a specific lien upon the land itself. The government
relied on authorities holding that a covenant in a lease to pay
taxes on land does not cover a tax imposed on the landlord
in respect to the land. The court held that it was not a tax
on land. See also Minot v. lFint ]rop, 162 Mass. 113, and cas.
cit.; Wallace v. -Myers, 38 Fed. Rep. 184.
In political economy a tax on all property or all income is
not regarded as the equivalent of a series of special taxes
covering all parts of the property or income. The same
distinction is recognized by the law. Railroad Company
v. Collector, 100 TI. S. 595; United States v. Erie -Railway,
106 U. S. 327; Society for Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594;
Hamilton Company v. .1assachusetts, 6 Wall. 632; .ome Insurance Co. v. .iew York, 134 U. S. 594. See also Tan Allen
v. The Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, 583; Bradley v. The People, 4
Wall. 459; Tennessee v. Whitworth, 117 U. S. 129, 136-7;
Wilcox v. Aiddlesex County Commissioners, 103 M11ass. 544;
State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. at p. 294.
If the tax on rentals is so vital an element in the whole
scheme as to make void the entire law if the rentals are not
taxable by the rule of uniformity, then the Springer case is
in point. While Springer's own particular income included
no rentals of real property, nevertheless, the question was
involved in his case; for if the law was void in toto as to
persons whose income was in part made up of rentals, so it
was void in toto as to everybody else also.
If the rentals are regarded as separable from the rest of the
tax, then the Scholey case is still in point as already shown.

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

481

Mr. Whitney's Argument for the United States.

We do not discuss the suggestion that income from personal property is non-taxable, for two reasons; first, that the
iylton case settles the rule that a tax on personal property,
at least a tax other than on all personal property at a valuation, is a duty or excise; second, that these appellants did not
appear to have any income from personal property other
than municipal bonds.
Municipal bonds. It is settled that the bonds of one State
or its municipalities may be taxed by another State. Bona.parte v. Tax Court, 104: U. S. 592; but it is not settled
whether they may be taxed by the Federal government.
See dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Bradley in Collector v.
Day, 11 Wall. 113, 128, 129. The remarks of Mr. Justice
Matthews in 3fercantile Bank v. Vew York, 121 U. S. 138,
162, are obiter. Chief Justice 11arshall regarded the question
as left open, whether the Federal government could tax
state bonds, even if it were decided that the State could not
tax Federal bonds. McCulloch v. Maryland,4 Wheat. 316,
435, 436. It has never been decided that the State could not
include Federal bonds in a general property tax (in the
absence of express prohibition by Congress), except in Bank
of Commerce v. 2New York City, 2 Black, 620. See People v.
Commissioners of Taxes, 23 N. Y. 192; 26 N. Y. 163. The
power of the States was asserted by the dissenting Judges in
Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449. The question was not involved in that case, however, and not decided by the court; for
that was not a general property or income tax, but a special tax
on certain named securities (p. 450), and it is undoubted that
a special tax cannot be laid by the State on Federal securities,
since the power to tax in that manner is the power to destroy;
and therefore such a tax may justly be described as a tax
upon the borrowing power of the government. No such
argument can be drawn from the inclusion of Federal bonds
in a general income tax. The power to tax in that manner
would not be the power to destroy, by any reasonable interpretation. The Federal borrowing power could not be destroyed without destroying all the property in the State and
reducing all its laborers to a condition of slavery, except those
VOL. CLVi--31

OCTOBER TERf, 1894.
Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Moore, Appellant.

who were fortunate enough to divide its spoils. A general
state income tax could not impede or disadvantage in any
way the Federal right to borrow. The property of the lender
was taxable before the loan. He simply changes its form.
The tax goes on at the same rate. Exemption, on the other
hand, is a positive advantage to the Federal borrower. If
the citizen lends to the government, he will pay no more
taxes to the State. He therefore is supposed to calculate
the principal sum representing the interest he will thus save,
and pays that principal sum, in the form of a premium, to
the government. What is the net result?. The government
has confiscated the taxable value of some of the taxable
property in the State, and then sold it to somebody for cash.
The question in the Bank of Commerce ease never came before the court a second time, because Congress, by the act of
February 25, 1862, c. 33, 12 Stat. 315, expressly exempted
United States bonds from State taxation. The court's line of
reasoning has not been sustained in other cases. The principle of the case has not been applied to other Federal agencies. Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5. The argument
that, if the Federal bonds were taxable at all, the State could
establish a general tax with exemptions, which would be the
substantial equivalent of a special tax, and that the Federal
courts would be unable to pass upon the propriety of the exemptions, has been overruled in .Mercantile Bank v. New
York, 121 U. S. 138, 161, 162.
.M . George 27. Edmunds for Moore, appellant in 915. 2&.
Samuel Sliellabargerand Mir. Jeremiak I. Wilson were with
him on his brief.
I am first to consider whether my client, Mr. Moore, has any
standing to be heard in this court. There are very important
questions involved in this so-called income tax law. It is
objected to his right to be heard by the judicial power of the
United States against what he conceives to be, and what we
believe and maintain to be an absolute and unauthorized invasion of his private rights, that Congress has said that he shall
not be heard.

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

483

Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Moore, Appellant.

If he has no right under the Constitution to appeal to the
courts of his country for protection against that which no law
authorizes, and which is absolutely destitute of authority on
the part of persons who thus undertake to invade his office,
explore his books, and compel him to pay, and to finally
decide in fact, so far as that goes, whether he has told the
truth about it or not, and if they think he has not told the
truth, to punish him by a penalty as a final judgment; if, in
such a case, he cannot appeal to the courts, of course he has
no business to be here.
But if the Constitution of our country has really created a
judicial power of the United States, independent in itself, and
standing on the rock of the Constitution -a department of the
government to which the Constitution has imputed the authority and the duty to protect the citizen against unlawful and
tyrannical invasions of his private rights-then he has a right
to ask you to decide whether these invasions which are now
threatened against him are those which the law has warranted, or are only those which have been invited by a body
of respectable gentlemen, who had no right to speak, and
who have now disappeared off the face of the political earth.
The Constitution declares that the judicial power shall
extend to all cases in law and in equity arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States, and gives this Court
original jurisdiction in such cases. The judiciary act of 1789
put the judicial power in motion, and it has continued so without change, as to the point about which I am speaking.
The statute which is supposed to bar Mr. Moore of the right
to be heard in equity is the provision in Rev. Stat.  3224,
that "no suit for the purpose of restraining the collection or
assessment of any tax shall be maintained in any court."
If that means any lawful tax, it is absurd. If it means, as
it probably was intended to mean, to apply merely to questions
of the amount of the assessment, of classification, of irregularities, of technicalities, etc., in one point of view it is consistent with public interest. But if it is meant, as I assume it
to be, as a prohibition against every citizen to whom a man
falsely pretending to be a collector or assessor of taxes comes,

OCTOBER TERMAf, 1894.
Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Moore, Appellant.

without any real act of Congress behind him, and by the sheer
arbitrary force of an executive branch of the government,
invades his office and his books, and decides whether he has
reported truthfully or not, and finally seizes his property, I
say it is a declaration that Congress had no power to make.
The Constitution certainly regarded cases in equity that
accorded with acknowledged, settled, and well-known historical
principles and the historic practice of jurisprudence for hundreds of years, as proper ones for an appeal to a judicial
tribunal; it said so, and it meant what it said. And when it
declared that the judicial power should consider and decide,
in cases brought before it, all cases in equity arising under the
Constitution and laws of the United States, it was a function
that the Constitution implanted in the courts, and one which
no so-called act of Congress could abolish or diminish.
Suppose Congress says that in exercising the original jurisdiction of this court no suit in equity shall be brought by
one State against another, or respecting an ambassador. Can
we think that there would be any want of unanimity in this
supreme tribunal in holding that it was a matter beyond the
competence of Congress to say that you could only exercise a
part of what the Constitution had given you, and that you
should not, in respect to particular States or ambassadors, or
particular topics that fell within the range and scope of the
Constitutional description and boundary of your powers, permit them to be heard while you did exercise your powers in
all other cases?
All such action of Congress defies the Fourteenth Amendment, if that amendment applies to the United States (as I
think it does) as well as to the States, for it declares that the
equal protection of the laws is to be everywhere inviolable for
the protection of everybody.
So that I maintain, with confidence and hope, that this
court will have no difficulty in saying that this prohibition of
Congress against this particular kind of suit, on account of
its being a suit in respect of a tyrannical and unconstitutional
attempt on the part of the person who holds a particular
office to invade the private affairs of my client, is no impediment to your consideration of the case.

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

485

Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Moore, Appellant.

I come now to the question whether there is equity jurisdiction. It is insisted that where there is a plain and adequate remedy at law the courts of equity cannot be appealed
to. We all grant that. Everybody knows it. And then it
becomes a question in tax cases, as in every other, whether there
is an adequate remedy at law. While courts are inclined in
tax cases, as they are in some other cases (when it is a question of stopping a railroad or stopping a trespass), to refrain
from issuing injunctions, etc., yet the courts everywhere in
respect to these tax cases have been careful to express a saving clause, meaning that if there be the circumstance of multiplicity of suits, irreparable injury- in respect of matters
incapable of redress in a just sense, 'by a suit at law for damages, equity will intervene.
Now, do we fall within the principle? Here is a statute,
so called - I call it a statute for brevity - here is a statute
which declares that a particular officer of the government
and his deputies appointed by himself - which the Constitution gives him no authority to appoint at all, he is not the
head of a department - but we do not now stand on that - I
only speak of it as one of the plants of vice that bloom in this
tax garden of injustice in the last Congress- may compel
every citizen of the United States, not only if he has $4000 a
year, but if he has earned $3500, in respect to which no tax is
to be assessed- to make a report to him, answering a series
of questions under authority of this act - and I assume for
the moment that they are authorized by the act - which invade every item of his private transactions, and affect the interests of everybody with whom he has been in connection,
in situations ol trust of the most sacred confidence, as a lawyer, for instance; in situations of trust of the most sacred
confidence, as a physician; in situations of the most private
character in business purely his own; in situations of the most
sacred confidence, as the president of a bank, or a broker
acting for thousands of customers in the market, and compel
him to expose everything to the satisfaction of this agent of
the law, as he is called. And if he does not do it, what then?
Then this so-called agent of the law is to make up his mind,

OCTOBER TEBRf, 1894.
Mr. Edmunds' Argument f~r Moore, Appellant.

from such inquiries as he chooses to make, how much the
man's income really is. If the man has submitted to exaction
far enough to make a return, and the collector or his deputy
chooses to be dissatisfied, he may punish him by a penalty of
100 per cent added. Then the citizen may appeal to the collector of internal revenue for final justice. The collector is
not a jury of his countrymen. Probably it is an equity trial,
such as the statute forbids to the Circuit Court and to this
court, but an equity trial before the collector of internal
revenue. He decides upon the whole case, and the statute
says it shall be final. That is the end of the jurisdiction.
The judicial power is not to be invoked at all. It comes
around to the question of whether the final disposition of
these exactions under pretence of authority of law is to be
determined by the judiciary, or whether it is to be determined
by the administrative officers who are made the inquisitors as
well as the final judges of everything.
We have been referred to the Hylton case, decided in 1794.
That was the case which allowed a duty on carriages as not a
direct tax. In the court below Mr. Justice Blair - and you
will find the whole case an extremely amusing and suggestive
one - was of the opinion that this tax on carriages was a
direct tax. The judges were divided in opinion. But the
judges in the Supreme Court who heard the case held that
that tax was valid, and that it was not a direct tax. Well,
let us suppose for a moment that that is good law. I believe
that this was a chariot, if it will add anything to the dignity
of the case. But the tax on these was eight dollars each.
The decision then was simply and solely that a tax on carriages was not a direct tax, but it was a duty, as the court
called it, and how a duty in that sense differs from an impost
I will not take up your time to discuss.
INow suppose that was so. A carriage is a thing which
is separable from the person of the owner. There is no doubt
that the owner ig separable from the carriage when he is
thrown out in a runaway. A carriage is a thing which we
have an idea of as a definite and complete thing, as distinguished from the personality of the owner.

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

487

Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Moore, Appellant.
Can you have any such idea about an income ? I take it not.
Therefore, whatever we may say as it respects a tax upon a
thing which moves about s a physical object, it is a different
idea and a different thing to the conception of a tax upon a person, and that is all this income tax is or professes to be- a tax
upon a person, because of a particular circumstance inseparable
from him. It is curious that in old English times, and in the
law dictionaries, even since the Constitution was formed, an
income tax was described as a capitation tax imposed upon
persons in consideration of the amount of their property and
their profits.
In fact there is no escape from the proposition that the Supreme Court of the United States made a mistake when it said,
doubtingly and with hesitation, that a tax upon carriages fell
over into the region of indirect taxes which, as everybody described them, were those which are intended to fall upon the
movement of commodities, and the voluntary occupations of
men. So much for the /ylton case.
Then we come along down through a series of corporation
cases, of insurance and banks, etc., which I think your Honors
would hardly excuse me for going over one by one, all of
which, I submit, are entirely distinguishable from this.
At last we come to Springer'scase, which did hold, although
the facts as to the sources of income were not all clear, that that
income tax was within the competence of Congress without
regard to apportionment.
That decision I request your Honors to reconsider, and to
come back again to the true rule of the Constitution. It is always well, it is always necessary in the progress of human
affairs and society and in government, to remember that gradual and infinitesimal departures from the Constitutional line
marked out for our march (if there be one, and we all believe
there is) gradually depart further and further, one precedent
following another, until at last we are obliged, like the mariner
after a storm, or like the traveller in the wilderness, when the
stars come out, to take a new observation and correct our course.
Now, I propose to prove that at the time this Constitution
was proposed, at the time it was discussed, both in the conven-

OCTOBER TERI,

1894.

Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Moore, Appellant.

tion and in public discussions, and in the conventions of the
States that adopted it, the principles and practice of the government which led these gentlemeri to employ these terms so
industriously and carefully as they did, demonstrate beyond
cavil or doubt that a tax upon the person in respect of his
income did not fall within the category of the words, duties,
imposts, and. excises, but that it fell within the terms and
description of capitation and other direct taxes. And if this
be true, I submit that you ought to say so now. Every dictionary shows-I have looked at Johnson's dictionary- the
great didtionary at that time - and in Jacob's, of the editions of
those dates, and in the Acts of Parliament, and in Blackstone,
and in Coke, and everywhere this distinction appears in the
clearest way.
Our fathers who built this Constitution were as familiar with
Blackstone as any of us below the bar are. They were as
familiar with Coke. They knew as much of the meaning of
the English language as anybody who has succeeded them.
There can be no improvement upon the clearness and the
style of the language of the Constitution. There are fewer
phrases in it, probably, that are capable of different constructions and equivocal interpretations, than any other similar
number of words in any document existing. It therefore does
not do to say that they put words into the Constitution without consideration, and without intellectual and industrious
selection of the terms which they intended to use, and without
intending the clear and definite meaning that the universal
practice of mankind at that time imputed to them.
There was Blackstone, for instance, whose work was printed
in 1765, twenty-two years before this Constitution was formed.
That book was undoubtedly on the tables of half the lawyers
of the United States, and undoubtedly on the tables of the
committees and on the tables of the constitutional convention.
He treats of taxes in this first volume (the whole is very
interesting, but I only read the phrase in question). First,
there is the direct tax, the land tax, and the subsidies, and all
that variety of things, there being no income tax, eo nomine,
except upon official salaries, etc., and there were stamps, etc.,

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

489

Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Moore, Appellant.

but the idea of income at that time as being a measure of the
contribution that the subject should make to the common
treasury was found in the arrangement of their tax system
in this way: The valuation was made of all the land and
property, etc., in the several counties, and then when the
Parliament or the kings, when they usurped the power-as
this administration under the direction of Congress is usurping power now- wished to raise a levy of 100,000, this was
apportioned among the counties, just as the Constitution says
direct taxes shall be apportioned among the States, following
the course of the English taxes. Then it came at last to the
idea of adjusting that amount, the amount usually paid on
the land and the property, which was already in the tax book
and they did not have a new assessment every year, but
the valuation stood a long time -and they provided in the
Acts of Parliament that the tax should be paid upon these
ratable properties in proportion to the amount of income that
the owners of the property got out of them. If the man's
property was rated at 100, for instance, he was to pay a tax
of a penny in the pound; if his property was rated at 1000
and his income was 500, then he had to pay a tax at the
rate of sixpence in the pound, and so on.
That was the state of that kind of taxation at the time our
Constitution was formed. That was .the manner of regulating
the burdens and taxes that were paid upon things and real
estate and property by the inhabitants of the various counties
of England; and that our forefathers knew when they made
this Constitution; and our forefathers knew it was a direct
tax as distinguished from duty, excise and impost.
But it may be said that the term "duties" covers any kind
of taxes. So it would in its broadest sense; but- when our
Constitution distributes its description of subjects and modes
of taxation, and says in one place "taxes," and in another says
"duties" and "excises" and "imposts," is it not obvious that
they intended to throw one part of the things into one class
and the other part into the other class, and that duties were
put into the association where they belonged according to
Blackstone, as those imposts which were usually imposed

OCTOBER TERT-f, 1894.
Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Moore, Appellant.

upon customs, sometimes upon exports, which our Constitution forbids, but always upon imports, which our Constitution

allows.
Blackstone says of these taxes that they are "the customs,
or the duties, toll, or tariff payable upon merchandise exported
or imported." Supposing that this book lay upon the table,
and we were framing a constitution, and wished to class this
income tax and put it in its proper place among the descriptions
of taxes which Congress should be authorized to raise, would
anybody' doubt where we must put it? So I say, that in all
the dictionaries of the time, in all the commentaries of the
time, in all the statutes of the time in that kingdom from which
we drew our inspirations of public liberty and our principles
of judicial justice, there was never a thought or a suggestion
of an income tax except as direct taxation upon the body of
the property of the kingdom, regulated from time to time and
graduated as a direct tax, according to the ability of the person that owned the property, as shown sometimes by his income for one year and sometimes by the average for three years.
If that be so -

and it is so -how

is it possible for us in an

intellectual sense, the matter being 'es nova, to conclude that
a tax upon personal incomes falls under the head of duties,
imposts, and excises, to be uniform throughout the United
States? And a tax which, at that time, if the power had then
been exerted in that way, would have accomplished the very
mischief and the wrong that the founders of that Constitution
intended to prevent, by imposing almost the entire burden of
the government upon three or four States. And thus we see
that, when this Constitution was adopted, the very point was
in the discussions everywhere that those burdens from which
the citizen could not ordinarily escape, or diminish by act of
his own will, as he can in respect to how he lives and what he
consumes, should not be committed to a mere majority of the
voters to impose upon others, but that they should be apportioned among the States according to their population,
and if it was found when it came to be applied that it would
work injury and injustice, as sometimes all taxes do, then
Congress need not adopt it.

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

491

Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Moore, Appellant.

Mr. Justice Harlan:-Have you formulated in your own
mind any general rule by which we are to determine whether
a tax is direct or indirect?
have. I am perfectly ready to state it.
Mr. Edmunds: -I
But like most general rules, it requires exceptions, as all judicial courts know and all people acquainted with affairs know.
It is almost impossible to state a general rule which will not
have its exceptions, and its qualifications, and its variations.
But my definition is-and I believe it to be generally
found to be universally true - that a direct tax is a tax upon
every kind of property and upon every kind of person in
respect of himself, or in respect of his property, either in
existence or acquired, or to be acquired, and not in respect
to his voluntary calling, pursuit or acts, as importing goods
which he may import or not import as he pleases, not in
respect of his being a trader or manufacturer, etc., in all
of which cases he is taxed as a consequence of his free choice
of business and in all of which the burden is to some degree
moved on - but in respect of things that belong to the existence of property as an entity -a state of physical being.
Duties, imposts, and excises are, in large degree, and almost
universally, heavy or light upon each person, depending upon
his own will. If we say, as some writers do, that indirect
taxes are those upon consumption, I repeat again what I
believe I said before to some extent, that taxes upon consumption are not taxes which bear unequally upon the socalled poor and the so-called rich, because we all know - it is
an everyday experience -that there are people in this very
know there are town and probably in this very room -I
upon
half that which
comfortably
and
who live respectably
it costs some who are their neighbors.
Mr. Justice Brown: -Is not the distinction somewhat like
this: That direct taxes are paid by the taxpayer both immediately and ultimately; while indirect taxes are paid immediately by the taxpayer and ultimately by somebody else.
Mr. Edmunds : - Yes, sir; that is a much clearer definition
than I have given, though I think the whole burden rarely
falls on the last man. It is, I think, borne partly by each

OCTOBER TERM,

1894.

Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Moore, Appellant.

agent in the movement. The income of a man is inseparable
from him. It is as inseparable from a man as his character is,
or his name. It is there. It is personal. It begins and ends
with him. It was for that reason that I read the definitions
in existence at the time this Constitution was made - as a
capitation tax included an income tax. It is an inseparable
quality, idea, entity that could not be grasped by the human
mind otherwise than in connection with the person. It may
be that it should not have been so. Perhaps our patriotic
friends who have left us would have made it some other way.
But our mission is to find out what it was, and not what it
ought to have been. Personally, I think that if you were to
impose an income tax upon the gains of all property as
property according to valuation all over the United States,
according to their population, it would come much nearer
being uniform, man for man, throughout the United States,
than a great many politicians and philosophers suppose.
I come now, if your Honors please, to the point of uniformity. The dictionary meaning of "uniform" is: "Having
always the same form, manner, or degree; not varying, or
variable; unchanging; consistent; equable; homogeneous."
I have to submit that the phrase in the Constitution,
"duties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform throughout
the United States," is not merely a geographical phrase.
I take it that my learned friends on the other side will
agree that the word uniform is not a geographical word taken
alone. And what the Constitution meant, after it had provided that direct taxes should be apportioned according to
population, and so on, by the requirement that duties, excises,
and imposts should be uniform throughout the United States,
was that they must be assessed and collected upon the principles of fundamental justice and of equality that are implied in
the very name of taxes in a constitutional government of free
men. And I submit that it would not, in a direct tax case,
have been within the competence of Congress, having imposed
a direct tax upon lands and apportioned it among the States
according to population, to say that in any one State or all
States the owners of two hundred acres of land should pay

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST 00.

493

Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Moore, Appellant.

all the tax, and all the owners of less than two hundred acres
should pay none, although the Constitution said nothing about
it.
And so in regard to uniformity under the other classduties, imposts, and excises. When it speaks of uniformity
throughout the United States it means, I submit, literally and
grammatically, not merely that it shall be everywhere the
same, but, first, that it shall be uniform per se, and after being
uniform per se, that the uniformity shall be universal as to
places. That is the grammar of it; the common sense of it.
That is the sense in which the word uniform is used in my
learned brother's brief for the defense. That is the sense and
very phrase in which the writers, Hamilton and the others,
preceding the Constitution, and in the discussions in the Federalist, speaking of the principles of taxation and the imposition of burdens, that these were to be uniform, used the
word.
Mr. Justice Harlan: - You think the word "uniform"
necessarily implies equality ?
Mr. Edmunds :- I do. The dictionary says so. One of its
definitions is equable.
Mr. Justice White : - Then the use of both the words
itequal " and " uniform " was mere tautology?
Mr. Edmunds : - Yes. The word "equal" was in the original draft, and when being revised it was stricken out, not by
the committee that was reforming it, but by the committee on
style, as tautology. Thus making of this instrument, as I said
before, as perfect a model of symmetrical and concrete English
as was ever printed in the world.
So I maintain that it is not merely or chiefly a geographical
word, but also a word qualifying duties, imposts, excises, thus
made equable and homogeneous in respect of the things and
the persons to which they applied, and that the equality shall
be everywhere.
Mr. Justice White : - If your rule applies here, how do you
meet the statement made by you a while ago in discussing the
question of the exemption of a certain amount of furniture,
which was universally not taxed?

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Moore, Appellant.

Mr. Edmunds: - I meet it upon the principle and practice
that existed when the Constitution was formed, and that has
existed in every government since, that the lawmaking power
does not tax things that are of so small value that the cost of
collection of the tax is more than the amount of the tax; and
in dealing affirmatively, by the implied consent prevailing in
every constitution among civilized men, the principle and practice of leaving to the whole body of the citizens those small
personal effects, etc., like furniture, family bibles, etc., free
from taxation. And it is upon that principle and practice
that charities and churches and schools and libraries and
public buildings have been exempted; and also for these latter
things that they are things devoted to the public use in one
way and another, and therefore taxing them is merely taxing
the public for itself, and, consequently, of no advantage. It
seems so to me.
An illustration of this geographical notion of the uniformity,
which has just occurred to me, might be stated, for I think it
is a good one. It is the inscription that is still upon the old,
cracked, but still inspiring Bell of Liberty, in Philadelphia.
That bell was cast in England on the order of the colonial
assembly before the Revolution, and had cast on it, very curiously enough and prophetically enough - in the land of Cromwell, and, perhaps, within reach of the ears of George IIIthese words: "Proclaim liberty throughout all the land, and to
all the inhabitants thereof."
That was not geographical liberty. It was a liberty,2er se,
inherent in the rights of man, and that should expand and live
everywhere, and among all. That was the uniformity, I think,
that our fathers meant in using that phrase in the Constitution.
There was the important and the fundamental principle of
equal rights and justice embraced in the word uniform, and
then there was the added requirement that everywhere within
the borders of all the States that same principle of equality
and justice should exist.
11r. Justice White :- How do you meet the argument
advanced by the other side in regard to the construction of
the specific duties levied in all the tariffs during the last thirty

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

495

Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Moore, Appellant.

years? For instance, take the imposition of two cents per
pound on cotton without reference to the value of the cotton.
That would strike at the root of legislation which has existed
since the foundation of the government. Is not that a necessary consequence of that construction?
Mr. Edmunds - I think not, sir.

Mr. Justice White: - I would like to see why.
Mr. Edmunds : -The
introduction of commodities from
foreign countries into the United States is one that depends
upon the free will of the importer. There is no statute of the
United States that commands any citizen of Louisiana, of
Vermont, of Iowa, or of Texas, or of California to do anything
of the kind. Congress, having the power to exclude altogether, or to admit imports, has the power to say that they
shall be admitted upon any qualification it likes. It may say
you may bring them into the country upon the terms prescribed or not, as you please. It is the granting of a privilege.
You may exclude or admit them, just the same as a State
grants or refuses corporate rights. It may grant them on
-certain terms to A. and on entirely different terms to 13. A.
may have restrictions and B. may have none. There is another thing, it seems to me, and that is that in nearly all cases
where specific duties have been assessed, and probably in all
cases, those specific duties are based on the value of the article.
For instance, cloths having forty threads to the inch and
worth one dollar might be taxed ten cents a yard. Cloths
having eighty threads to the square inch and worth two
dollars shall pay so much more.
Then again, the language of this Constitution as applied to
one set of subjects may have one meaning, and when applied
to another set the meaning varies, as we all know it may, and
as it has been decided by this court it may sometimes. Again,
if all of a whole body of men or things are embraced in a tax
or other burden the imposition would be uniform, without
regard to any particular differences in the circumstantial
characteristics or qualities of the men or things. A tax on
polls does not distinguish between tall and short men, or
their wealth or health. A tax on all horses, per head,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Moore, Appellant.

would be uniform. A tax on all cotton at so much per pound
would be uniform. But in every such case the tax would be
direct.
But when it comes to the case of a tax imposed upon the
people, which the people must pay, and which does not depend
upon the conduct of the man or anything he may do, but is
one from which he cannot escape, then the principle of universal uniformity, as among men as well as within boundaries, is
applied, and the language is capable of that expansion and application according to the different subjects to which it might
be applied.
Some allusion has been made to the head money cases. I
will only say a word about this. The taxes, so called, could
not be geographically uniform, because it is perfectly clear
that in a State like Montana, and many others which are not
on the water, where no ship could possibly get in, such a tax
could not apply. But they could be and were intrinsically
uniform as to men and things.
Congress had passed a law that people coming by vessel
should pay a tax; but suppose Congress had said that in the
port of ]New York the people coming by one line, the Cunard
Line, should pay ten dollars; and that the people coming by
the International Line (the Paris and New York), into the same
port, should pay fifteen dollars a head. What do you think
would have been the decision in that case? Would my brother
Carter say that was uniform? I take it not. You would say
that Congress had no power to do anything of the kind.
I shall ask your attention for only a few moments more
with respect to the general aspects of this case. I insist that the
inherent quality of taxation in a government professed to be
founded on democratic principles (as in England it exists on an
unwritten constitution - for the government of England is
founded on democratic principles - it is in some respects more
democratic than ours - administrations come and go by the
mere will of one branch of that government), with written
constitutions, with equal rights, equal responsibilities, equal
duties, is that the name and idea of taxation is the imposition
of the burdens upon its people for their common benefit, and

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

497

Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Moore, Appellant.

that the imposition of the burdens in order to be just must be
equal as far as human exertion can make it so. It must not
be, as it is in this case, intentionally and tyrannically and monstrously unequal. If it were a state tax in the State of Vermont which provided that all persons owning property worth
more than $80,000 should pay all the taxes of the State, and
those having less shall pay none, probably not exceeding one
hundred persons in the rural and modest State to which I
belong - certainly less than two hundred - would bear the
whole expenses of the State.
I maintain, therefore, that pervading every line of the instrument providing for the distribution and exercise of the
powers of this government, the power to impose taxes, direct
and indirect, must, to the greatest degree possible, be so exercised that the taxes bear upon its people equally in respect of
the subjects, persons, and rates to which they can apply. Allowing large latitude as to where we draw the lines, still the
taxes must be laid as nearly equal as fair human exertion can
make them. And when you find a case where Congress or a
state legislature has undertaken deliberately to make a discrimination which throws all the burden upon a very small
minority of the people, and on purpose to do it, and not from
any necessity of the situation, and a tax which relieves the vast
majority, which is just as able to bear it as the minority, you
must decide that the Congress has gone beyond the boundary
of its powers, and that the judicial power, which Hamilton so
prophetically said embraced the majesty and the justice of the
government, is bound to see it and to hold the calm and regnant shield of the Constitution between the citizen and
despotism.
So I maintain that it is a fundamental principle, written or
unwritten, that the burdens of taxation should bear equally.
But the fifth and fourteenth amendments of the Constitution
certainly would relieve us of all difficulty, if any existed, in
the fundamental principles I have stated. Take the Fourteenth Amendment. In terms it does not say that Congress
shall not deny to all the people the equal protection of the
laws. Suppose it had said that Congress may deny, although
VOL. CLVII-.32

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Moore, Appellant.

the States may not, to all the people the equal protection of
the laws . Everybody would have said that it was a monstrous
proposition, and if this court had the power of the highest
courts in Great Britain, you would have said such a provision
in the Constitution was void as against natural law. But I
believe it is now understood by this court, and everybody in
this land, that the principle and the substantial application of
the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment are just as binding upon Congress as they are upon the States, and as Congress was and is a body of delegated powers, that it was not
necessary to say that Congress is not to deny to anybody the
equal protection of the laws, because no power was delegated
to them to do such monstrous things. It is true that the attainment of perfect equality in taxation is a baseless dream,
as has been said. But it does not follow that the legislative
power can lawfully and purposely go to the other extreme and
impose taxes broadly designed to be unequal, and by false and
arbitrary classification set one great body of citizens in conflict with another.
If the Fourteenth Amendment applies to this case, is the
taxing of this small minority -two per cent of the people of
the United States- imposing upon them this burden, and
denying to them the protection that the ninety-eight per cent
have, and granting a privilege to the ninety-eight per cent to
pay nothing, and imposing a duty on the two per cent to pay
much or little as Congress may declare (for if it has the right
to impose a two per cent tax, it can compel twenty or fifty or
one hundred) warranted by the clause of equal protection ?
If such discrimination is to be upheld, then we have taken the
first great step toward the destruction of all free government.
I believe I have said, in reference to the framers of this
Constitution, that they must have been learned in the law, and
that they must have understood clearly the meaning of the
plain. phrases and paragraphs which they used -I am ure I
am right about that. All their writings, all their discussions
in the conventions and in the Federalist and in other publications show that they were acquainted with the whole history
of civilization in detail, from the Egyptian, and the Greek, and

POLLOCK v. FARMERS'

LOAN & TRUST CO.

499

Mr. Attorney General's Argument for the United States.

the Roman governments, where the tyranny of taxation produced so much misery, down through all the performances of
the French feudal times and British times, and the British administration at that time. Everything was before them. The
past was present and the distant near. And now we are to be
told that these gentlemen did not know what they were talking about, and that they did not mean what all the literature,
all the lexicons, and the legislation, and all the law books of
the time plainly imputed to those words; and all this for the
purpose of allowing the majority to levy a tax upon the minority.
It appears to me, therefore, that it is the grand mission of
this court of last resort, independent and supreme, to bring
the Congress back to a true sense of the limitations of its
powers. Hamilton in one of his letters stated the great truth,
that "In framing a government which is to be administered
by men over men, the great difficulty lies in this - you must
first enable the government to control the governed; and,
in the next place, oblige it to control itself. A dependence
on the people is, no doubt, a primary control on the government; but experience has taught mankind to insist on auxiliary precautions." Of these, he said the chief is "in the
distribution of the supreme powers of the State."
In the exercise of its clear jurisdiction it is the right of this
court, and we hope it will find it to be its glad duty, to see
that this fundamental principle of equality in taxation is not
disregarded. If the Constitution has been invaded, and if
recognition by the courts has been mistakenly given to that
invasion heretofore, now is the time, before we depart wider
and wider from that true line of equal justice and equal rights
which cannot exist without equality of burdens, to return to
the true paths of the Constitution.
Xr'. Attorney General, by leave of court, for the United
States in all the cases.
The chief interest of the government in the present litigations relates to the constitutional questions which the several

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Attorney General's Argument for the United States.

plaintiffs allege to he involved. Whether they are really
involved or not, or whether the suits should and must be disposed of on different grounds, is a matter upon which I do not
care to be heard. For present purposes, I al willing to assume
that the plaintiffs are right in their claim, and that the constitutional issues they desire to have settled are so presented
by these litigations that the court either must, or properly
may, consider and determine them.
An examination of the plaintiffs' bills and briefs and arguments seems to show quite satisfactorily that many of the
alleged objections to the validity of the income tax law are
simply perfunctory in character. They are taken pro forma,
by way of precaution, because of the possibility of a point
developing in some unexpected connection, just as a good
equity pleader, be his knowledge of his case and of the pertinent remedies ever so thorough, never fails to wind up his
bill with the general prayer for other and further reliefThere is nothing to criticise, of course, in the plaintiffs pursuing that plan. It only makes it proper to sift out at the
outset the exact propositions upon which alone the plaintiffs
can and do place any real reliance. For example, no time
need be spent, I take it, in discussing the averments that the
income-tax law is an invasion of vested rights, or takes property without due process of law. These propositions are pure
generalities, glittering or otherwise, and if there is anything in
them it is because they comprehend others which are more
specific and which are the only real subjects of profitable
discussion. Again, suppose it to be true that the income-tax
law undertakes to ascertain the incomes of citizens by methods
which are not only disagreeable, but are infringements of
personal rights. The consequence is, not that the law is void,
but that the hotly denounced inquisitorial methods which are
merely ancillary to its operation cannot be resorted to. The
like considerations apply to the objection that the law is to be
pronounced void because taxing the agencies and instrumentalities of the governments of the several States.
I will not undertake to repeat the able and satisfactory
argument of my associate on that point. There seems to be

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST 00.

501

Mr. Attorney General's Argument for the United States.

no good reason why the income of state and municipal securities should not be taxable by the United States when it is
assessed as part of the total income of the respective owners
under a law assessing income generally and not discriminating
between those securities and others of like character. In
making that suggestion I do not overlook the able and elaborate opinion of the supreme court of the District, holding,
largely on the ground of want of power in the United States,
that this income-tax law properly construed has no application
to the income from state and municipal securities. But suppose the contrary - suppose that the statute must be interpreted as taxing and unlawfully taxing state agencies and
instrumentalities. The result is, not that the law is bad in
toto, but that it is bad only as to the income of state and
municipal securities. The plaintiffs seek to meet this view by
alleging in their bill that the income from state and municipal securities throughout the country amounts to $65,000,000.
lHaving made that allegation, they then declare that it was
the intent of Congress and is necessary to accomplish the
general purpose of the law, that this $65,000,000 should be
taxed. But the declaration is mere assertion without evidence
in its support either in the statute or outside of it. The
plaintiffs do not even attempt to give the assertion an air of
probability by comparing this $65,000,000 of income which the
law cannot reach with the other and remaining income which
the law does reach. Yet they certainly would have made the
attempt if the comparison would show that this $65,000,000
of non-taxable income is so large a proportion of the entire
income of all the people of the country as to make it inconceivable or even highly improbable that Congress could mean
to tax income at all unless this $65,000,000 were included as
part of it.
If I am right in these observations, the constitutional contention of the plaintiffs simmers down to two points. One is
that an income tax is a direct tax and must be imposed according to the rule of apportionment. I do not stop to discuss the
question what the constitutional rule of apportionment is. I
do not think I ought to delay the court for any considerable

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Attorney General's Argument for the United States.

time with the question whether an income tax is direct or indirect. Scientifically, economically, practically, it may be
either the one or the other without the result of the present
cases being in the slightest degree affected. In them, the only
material point is, is an income tax " direct" or otherwise in the
sense in which the term "direct" is used in the Constitution ?
The answer is that it is not a "direct" tax within the meaning of the Constitution unless at least five concurring judicial
expressions of opinion by this court, the earliest in 1796, when
three leading spirits of the constitutional convention were on
the bench, and the last in 1880, have all been erroneous and
ought now to be reversed. But, whether or not they be erroneous is, when all is said, matter of the gravest doubt, and, were
it ever so certain, no idea of reversing them ought now to be
seriously considered. A constitutional exposition practically
coeval with the Constitution itself, that has been acted upon
ever since as occasion required by every department of the
government, that is not irrational in itself nor vicious in its
workings, and that indeed during a stress and strain such as that
of the civil war was found of the greatest v'alue to the Republic,
dbserves to be considered as immutable as if incorporated into
the text of the Constitution itself. To reject it after a century's duration is to set a hurtful precedent and would go far
to prove that government by written constitution is not a thing
of stable principles, but of the fluctuating views and wishes of
the particular period and the particular judges when and from
whom its interpretation happens to be called for. In this
connection, therefore, there is but one suggestion which I
desire to very briefly notice. A part of the income taxable
under the law is rents of land, and a tax upon rents is claimed
to be a tax upon the land, and so to be a "direct" tax within
the meaning of the Constitution. But the suggestion is by
no means novel, and certainly is not to be accepted as sound.
There is a practical commercial sense in which a tax upon
rents is always a tax upon land. It affects the value of land;
land, the income from which is subject to a tax, must sell for less
in the market than land the income of which is not so subject.
But, except in that view, a tax upon rents is not necessarily a

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

503

Mr. Attorney General's Argument for the United States.

tax upon land, but may be a tax upon a wholly distinct subjectmatter. Instead of being upon realty, it may be upon so
much personalty wholly dissociated from the land. It is,
of course, competent for the government to tax upon either
plan -to tax rents under a scheme of taxation of personalty
as personal property, or to tax them under a scheme of taxation as realty and as representing and measuring the value of
real estate. The only question is of the intent -an
intent
to be looked for and found only in the statute imposing the
tax. That test being applied, what is the purpose of Congress
in the present income-tax law? Is it to tax land - rents being
used as a ready mode of valuation - or is it to tax rents as so
much personal property irrespective of its origin? It is difficult to see how that question can be answered except in one way.
No land tax is aimed at or attempted by the statute -there
is no lien on land for its payment- and the whole scope and
tenor of the statute show the subject of the contemplated tax
to be personal property and nothing else. It is well nigh
conclusive on this point that there is no provision for the
valuation and taxation of unproductive land-a provision
that would almost certainly have been found if the object had
been to make a real-estate tax. It may be suggested, however,
that it may be the purpose to tax land but only such land as
yields rent. But there is no sign or symptom of such an intent
in any specific provision of the statute, while its general provisions, as already observed, contemplate nothing but a tax on
personal estate. It may also be suggested that if a tax reaches
rents in point of fact, it is a tax upon land no matter what the
intent of the taxing statute may be. But that position is wholly
untenable, because rents in the pocket of the owner are not
intrinsically and of themselves land. They are money, like
any other. If for the purpose of a tax they are to have any
artificial character as the representative of land, it is a character impressed upon them from some source and can come
from no other source than the taxing statute itself. I submit,
therefore, with great confidence, that while a tax upon rents
may under some circumstances be held to be in truth and in
fact a tax upon land, it cannot be held to be such under a

OCTOBER TERf, 1894.
Mr. Attorney General's Argument for the United States.

statute like the present which taxes rents without regard to
land and merely as one of the constituents of income.
This brings me to the only remaining point -to the constitutional objection which, notwithstanding all that has been so
earnestly and forcibly said on the direct tax part of this controversy, is, I am satisfied, the plaintiffs' main reliance. The
point is that the income tax imposed by the statute under consideration is not uniform. But what does the Constitution
mean by "uniform" as applied to a tax? But for the strong
pressure upon the plaintiffs' counsel to find objections to this
statute there would be no controversy as to the meaning. It
is clearly shown by the debates in the constitutional convention and by the repeated and unequivocal utterances of the
framers of the Constitution themselves. It is set forth by the
writers on constitutional law, who are unanimous in their interpretation. It is judicially expounded by this court in the wellknown judgments in the so-called Read Money cases. The
uniformity of tax prescribed by the Constitution is a territorial
uniformity. A Federal tax, which is not a poll tax nor a tax on
land, must be the same in all parts of the country. It cannot be
one thing in Maine and another thing in Florida. The law
providing for such a tax must be like a bankruptcy law or a
naturalization law. It must have the same operation everywhere, wholly irrespective of state lines.
It is manifestly impossible for the plaintiffs to assent to this
settled construction of the word "uniform," and they do not
assent to it. They are compelled to insist that a tax, to be
'uniform" within the meaning of the Constitution, must be
uniform, not only geographically but as between taxpayers.
In other words, they make it prescribe the nature and quality
of a tax as well as its local application. I submit that their
contention is hopeless and may fairly be r;egarded as already
decided against them. Let it be, however, for present purposes that the adjective "uniform" describes and regulates
the properties of a tax. I then beg leave to submit that the
plaintiffs gain nothing by the concession, and that, so far as
the validity of this income-tax law or any other tax law is concerned, the word "uniform" might as well be out of the

-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

505

Mr. Attorney General's Argument for the United States.

Constitution as in it. The word is surplusage. It simply designates and describes an essential element of every tax - an element which is inherent in every valid tax and the absence of
which would be sufficient to annul any attempted exercise of
the taxing power.
For the basis and the truth of this position it is only necessary to refer for a moment to the nature of the taxing power.
The power to tax is wholly legislative, and in its essence is the
power to raise money from the public for the public. That
the object of a tax must be public is undeniable. To force
money from the pockets of the people at large to enrich a private individual is so clear an abuse of the taxing power that
every court would so declare on general principles without the
.aid of any express constitutional prohibition. Conversely, to
take the property of a single individual for public uses is not
to exercise the power to tax but the power of eminent domain,
and can be done only on the condition of renderino the individual full indemnity. These inherent limitations of the taxing
power necessarily enter into and control every scheme of taxation and determine the mode and extent of its operation upon
private persons and estates. Theoretically, a tax for the benefit of the public should fall equally upon all persons composing
the public; should, as text writers and judges often express it,
be ratable and proportional, and be so adjusted that every
member of the community shall contribute his just and equal
share toward the common defence and the general welfare.
Moreover, under theoretical and ideal conditions such as can
be conceived of, these general maxims would be actually and
exactly applicable. If, for example, every individual in a community were like every other in respect of property, of the
ability to bear taxation, and of the benefit to accrue from
taxation, the questibn how he should be taxed could receive
but one answer. Nothing would have to be done but to apply
the rule of three, and any other rule would be inadmissible for
obvious reasons. To make one man pay a higher rate of tax
than another when all the conditions in both cases are exactly
alike would, to the extent of the excess be a taking of private
property for public uses without mking that special compen.sation which alone can justify such a taking.

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Attorney General's Argument for the United States.

Taxation, however, is an uncommonly practical affair. The
power to tax is for practical use and is necessarily to be

adapted to the practical conditions of human life. These are
never the same for any two persons, and for any community,
however small, are infinitely diversified. Regard being paid
to them, nothing is more evident, nothing has been oftener
declared by courts and jurists, than that absolute equality of
taxation is impossible-is, as characterized in an opinion of
this court, only "a baseless dream." No system has been or
can be devised that will produce any such result. Suppose,
for instance, manhood taxation were resorted to, as a sort of
offset to manhood suffrage, and that the public exchequer
were sought to be filled by a tax levied on adult males at so
much per head-the inequity and impolicy of such a tax
would be universally recognized and universally denounced.
But if such would be the fate of a capitation tax employed as
the sole source of public revenue, hardly less objection lies to
an ad valorem property tax which should make every owner,
without exception or discrimination of any sort, pay in exact
proportion to the value of his estate. Logically and theoretically, no criticism could be made on such a tax. But practically it loses sight of a most important element, to wit, the
ability to bear taxation, and ignores the fact that exacting $5
from a man whose annual income is $500 puts upon him an
infinitely greater burden than the exaction of $500 from one
whose annual income is $50,000. There is at first blush plausibility in the suggestion that the rule should be that every
person should contribute to a tax ratably to the benefits
derived from it. But nothing could be more objectionable or
would be more certainly objected to than an attempt to collect the public revenue on any such plan. The principal beneficiaries of almost all taxes, of the taxes for highways and
schools and sewers, and almost all other objects of state and
municipal expenditure, are the poorer classes of the community. To impose taxes solely upon the principle of the ensuing advantages realized would in effect largely exempt the
more fortunate and wealthy classes and place the greater part
of the burden upon those least able to bear it.

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

507

Mr. Attorney General's Argument for the United States.

These considerations serve to show the nature of the taxing
power; that it offers little, if any, opportunity for the exploitation of theories or for experiment with abstract generalizations; that it calls for the highest practical wisdom to be
applied to the actual and infinitely varied affairs of a particular community and people; and that in its exercise, in the
selection of the subjects of taxation, in taxing some persons
and estates and in exempting others, the legislature is vested
with the largest and widest discretion. It by no means follows that the power to tax is without any limits. They are,
so to speak, self-imposed, that is, as already observed, they
result from the very nature of the power itself. No country,
for example, no State of this Union, ever adopted a plan of
taxation that did not except some portions of the community
from a burden that was imposed upon others. The power to
do so is unquestioned and is universally exercised. Nevertheless, the power to exempt has bounds. It cannot be used
without regard to the end in view, nor to gratify a mere
whim or caprice. A law, for instance, providing for a tax to
be paid by the light-complexioned members of the community and exempting the dark, would be unhesitatingly pronounced void as being not a use but an abuse of the taxing
power. It would be an abuse because the discrimination
made by it could not be traced to any line of public policy.
So, having classified the community for the purpose of a tax,
the legislature cannot then proceed by arbitrary selection to
take individuals out of the class to which they belong. That
is the rule of uniformity -that is what "uniform" means as
applied to a tax-and that is its whole meaning as used in
the Federal Constitution, even when it is conceded that it prescribes the nature of a tax, not merely as between localities,
but as between taxpayers. The rule of uniformity places no
restrictions upon any division of the community into classes
for taxable purposes which the legislature may deem wise.
It merely declares that, the classes being formed, the members
of each shall be on the same footing, and shall be taxed alike
or be exempted alike without arbitrary discriminations in
individual cases. Uniformity between members of a class

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Attorney General's Argument for the United States.

created for taxable purposes is required upon the same grounds
which prevent a purely senseless and capricious division into
classes. The classification must be such that it can be
referred to some view of public policy. Being made and
justified only on that principle, any exemption of particular
members of a class is void because necessarily in conflict with
the principle and preventing its operation.
For these reasons I maintain that the term " uniform" in

the Constitution, even if it describes the properties of a tax,
puts no limitations upon the taxing power of Congress that
are not inherent in the very nature of the power. It is a
power to enforce money from the public for public uses. Could
it be exercised so as to produce equality of taxation, it could
be exercised in no other manner. That not being feasible in
the nature of things, it is for Congress and Congress alone to
decide bow the taxing power shall be applied so as best to
approximate that result. In making that application, Congress
is of course bound to keep in view the fundamental purpose
of the power and to aim at its accomplishment. Hence, in
taxing this class or exempting that, Congress must proceed
upon considerations of public policy, and cannot adopt a
classification which has no relation to the end to be attained
and is founded only in whim or caprice. Hence, and on the
same ground, classes for the purpose of taxation being constituted, the rule of taxation or exemption must be uniform
between members of the class. But, these limitations upon its
taxing power being granted, the right of Congress to determine who shall be taxed and what shall be taxed and all the
ways and means of assessment and collection, is practically
uncontrolled. It is quite beside the issue to argue in this or
any other case that Congress has mistaken what public policy
requires. On that point Congress is the sole and final authority, and its decision once made controls every other department of the government.
These familiar principles, so well established that any citation of authorities and decisions is, I think, quite unnecessary,
effectually dispose, I submit, of the plaintiffs' contention in
the present cases. What do they complain of ? It is not that

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

609

Mr. Attorney General's Argument for the United States.

Congress has determined to tax and has taxed income generally. It is that Congress has made exemptions in favor of
certain classes, and the plaintiffs' contention, if pushed to its
logical conclusion, means that Congress cannot tax income at
all without taxing ratably the income of every man, woman,
and child in the country. The preposterously harsh and impolitic operation of any such tax as that it is not necessary
to descant upon. Congress has rightfully repudiated any
such plan. While taxing incomes generally, it had full power
to make such exemptions as its views of public policy required,
and the only real question now and here is, has it abused or
exceeded that power of exemption ? The tests already stated
are applicable, and being applied render but one answer to the
question possible. The statute makes no exemption in favor
of a class that is not based on some obvious line of public
policy, and, the class being established, one uniform rule is
applicable to its members. Take, for example, the principal
classification of all - the grand division by which the entire
population of the country is separated into people with incomes
of $4000 and under who are non-taxable, and people with
incomes of over $4000 who are taxable. It is manifest that
in this distinction Congress was proceeding upon definite
views of public policy and was aiming at accomplishing a
great public object. It was seeking to adjust the load of taxation to the shoulders of the community in the manner that
would make it most easily borne and most lightly felt. Having so much revenue to raise, it might have got it by a proportional tax upon the entire income of all the people of the
country. But it bore in mind the fact that a small sum taken
from a small income is an infinitely greater deprivation than
a large sum taken from a large income; that in the one case
the very means of decent support might be impaired, while in
the other the power to command all the luxuries of life would
hardly be affected. Acting upon these considerations or considerations such as these, Congress undertook to exempt moderate incomes from the tax altogether. It had to draw the
line somewhere, and it drew it at $4000. The same objections in point of principle would have existed if it had drawn

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Attorney General's Argument for the United States.

the line at $400, or at any other figure. But no objection in
truth lies at all, because it is entirely evident that, as well in
exempting incomes of $4000 and under as in taxing incomes
of over $4000, Congress has been governed by what it deemed
example
sound public policy. Take another illustration -an
of a class formed by way of exception to a larger class. The
statutory general rule is that every taxpayer is entitled to a
fixed deduction of $4000 before taxable income is reached.
In the case, however3 of a family consisting of husband and
wife, or parent and a minor child or children, there is but one
$4000 deduction from the aggregate income of all the members of the family. Here is a differentiation of a special class
whose members may be taxed higher than others having
incomes of the same amount. But the discrimination is not
arbitrary nor senseless, but is founded on obvious views of
equity and policy. It assumes - what is undoubtedly true that as a rule there is but one income and one breadwinner
to one family, but, recognizing the fact that the rule has
many exceptions, it makes the existence of several incomes to
a family the just and proper basis of a somewhat higher rate
of tax. It is an attempt, in short, to tax with some regard
to the capacity of the taxpayer to bear it. Take another
illustration - that of a class which the plaintiffs' counsel
dwell upon at great length and with exceeding unction - the
class, namely, of business corporations. Their net incomes
are taxed at the standard rate of two per cent undiminished by
the standard deduction of $4000. The result is that a man in
business as a member of a corporation is taxable at a little
higher rate than a man in the same business by himself or as a
copartner. Here, it is claimed, is a distinction without a difference, is the establishment of a special class without special
reasons of equity and policy to justify it. But I venture to
submit that that is not so, and that the higher statutory rate
of tax for corporate incomes is founded upon and vindicated
by essential differences in the conditions under which corporations and individuals respectively carry on business. The
advantages acquired by doing business as a corporation, rather
than as individuals or partners, are plain and are notorious. The

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST 00.

511

Mr. Attorney General's Argument for the United States.

interest of a corporator is in distinct and tangible shape, is
marketable at any moment, and is unaffected by the insolvency or decease of other corporators. It is an interest
attended with a definite and limited liability for debts. It is
an interest through which the corporator ratably participates
in all the benefits arising from the transaction of business on a
large scale. These and other like commercial advantages of
incorporation are wholly dependent upon legislative grant,
which is the only fountain of corporate franchises. But so
pronounced and so general has been the appreciation of these
advantages that there is hardly a State of the Union which
does not facilitate the formation of business corporations by a
general corporation law, and that the great and ever-growing
multitude and variety of such corporations is one of the striking phenomena of modern times. It is common knowledge,
indeed, that corporations are so successful an agency for the
conduct of business and the accumulation of wealth that a
large section of the community views them with intense disfavor as malicious and cunningly devised inventions for making rich people richer and poor people poorer. When, then,
this income-tax law takes a special class of business corporaations and taxes their incomes at a higher rate than that
applied to the incomes of persons not incorporated, it simply
recognizes existing social facts and conditions which it would
be the height of folly to ignore. It but classifies and discriminates upon the plainest basis of equity and public policy, upon
a superiority of business conditions both enabling those enjoying them to pay a special and higher rate of tax and making
it just and equitable that they should pay it. Other like
exemptions of the statute, covering religious, educational,
charitable and semi-charitable companies, and embracing institutions where wage-earners lodge their scanty earnings and
by which persons of small means are enabled to co6perate in
various ways for mutual security and benefits, these exemptions rest firmly upon the same legal footing of a wise and
humane public policy. It would be tedious and cannot be
necessary to consider each in detail. Suffice it to say that the
statute lays down a rule for the taxation of incomes generally,

OCTOBER TERiM, 1894.
Mr. Attorney General's Argument for the United States.

and then adds qualifications, exceptions, and exemptions, as
to no one of which can it be fairly said that it does not represent an honest attempt of Congress to make the operation of
the tax just and equitable, and that it does not reflect the
honest views of Congress respecting the requirements of true
public policy. That being so, it avails nothing for the plaintiffs to point out instances in which the law taxes property
twice over or produces other inequalities and incongruities in
the way of taxation. Nothing else could be expected and
nothing different, it is safe to predict, would result from any
other law, even if the plaintiffs had the drawing of it. It
avails nothing, also, for the learned counsel to, convince themselves, and perhaps the court also, that Congress's views of
public policy are quite mistaken. When they have done that,
what have they accomplished? They have gone through an
intellectual exercise which from the character of counsel is
bound to be both interesting and brilliant. But they have
accomplished nothing else because, be Congress's views of
public policy ever so mistaken, this court cannot avoid ruling
that it is absolutely bound by them.
My endeavor has been to eliminate and discuss such of the
legal issues presented as are not already too conclusively
settled to admit of discussion, and to do so succinctly, without
unnecessary elaboration of details, and without being betrayed into those bypaths of metaphysical and economical
and historical inquiry which, however fascinating in themselves, have so little connection with the real business of the
case. It would be a mistake- I am aware that the court
is in no danger of falling into it -but it ,would certainly be a
mistake to infer that this great array of counsel, this elaborate
argumentation, and these many and voluminous treatises migcalled by the name of briefs, indicate anything specially
intricate or unique either in the facts before the court or in
the rules of law which are applicable to them. An income
tax is preeminently a tax upon the rich, and all the circumstances just adverted to prove the immense pecuniary stake
which is now played for. It is so large that counsel fees and
costs and printers' bills are mere bagatelles. It is so large

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

513

Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

and so stimulates the efforts of counsel that no legal or constitutional principle that stands in the way, however venerable
or however long and universally acquiesced in, is suffered to
pass unchallenged. It is matter of congratulation, indeed,
that the existence of the Constitution itself is not impeached,
and that we are not threatened with a logical demonstration
that we are still living, for all taxable purposes at least, under
the regime of the old Articles of Confederation. Seriously
speaking, however, I venture to suggest that all this laborious
and erudite and formidable demonstration must necessarily be
without result on one distinct ground. In its essence and in
its last analysis, it is nothing but a call upon the judicial
department of the government to supplant the political in the
exercise of the taxing power; to substitute its discretion for
that of Congress in respect of the subjects of taxation, the
plan of taxation, and all the distinctions and discriminations
by which taxation is sught to be equitably adjusted to the
resources and capacities of the different classes of society.
Such an effort, however weightily supported, cannot, I am
bound to believe, be successful. It is inevitably predestined
to failure unless this court shall, for the first time in its history,
overlook and overstep the bounds which separate the judicial
from the legislative power - bounds, the scrupulous observance
of which it has so often declared to be absolutely essential to
the integrfty of our constitutional system of government.
Mr. Herbert B. Turner filed a brief on behalf of The
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, appellee in 893.
Mr. William Jay and Milir. Flamen B. Candler filed a
brief on behalf of The Continental Trust Company, appellee
in 894.
Mr. James C. Carter for the Continental Trust Company,
appellee in 894. -Mr. William C. Gulliver was with him on
the brief.
I appear here for the Continental Trust Company. This is
one of the companies which, it might be supposed, represent
interests which would be the especial subjects of income taxVOL. cLVii-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

ation, and yet I am instructed by it to defend and maintain
to the best of my ability the validity of the law. I am glad
that there is at least one great corporation subjected to the tax,
which avows its readiness to submit itself without controversy
or contention to the law of the country, and to discharge the
burdens which that law imposes upon it.
It admits by its demurrer to the bill that, unless restrained
by the process of injunction, it will, in accordance with the
requirements of the law, make the prescribed returns and pay
the tax. Outside of this bill it admits, and indeed asserts, this
determination; and if those circumstances constitute any reason
why a court of equity should take jurisdiction of the case and
listen to argument upon the questions which are raised, then
there is some support for the equity jurisdiction invoked by
the complainant.
Inasmuch as the main position of the other side, upon this
branch of the inquiry, is that the taxesoimposed by the act are
unjust because they violate the true principle of equality in
taxation, I shall be obliged to inquire, for a few brief moments,
what that principle of equality is; how it has been stated and
laid down by statesmen and economists; how far governments
in practice adhere to it, and to what extent, and upon what
occasions, they depart from it.
We begin, of course, with the admitted truth that governments must exact very large sums from those who live under
them for the purposes for which governments are established,
and the first principle or rule -which, as I believe, is laid down
and agreed to by the most approved statesmen and economists,
representing, otherwise, every variety of opinion, is that taxes
must be laid according to the several and respective abilities
of the people upon whom they are imposed to bear them.
It will be observed that this rule has regard, principally, to
the different members of society considered as individuals, and
its purpose is to fairly and justly arrange the public burdens
Government, however, is a complex
as between them.
problem in which many different considerations are involved,
and this rule or principle of equality is, in practice, in all countries, departed from in a variety of ways.

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

515

Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

In the first place, the rule is departed from in most countries in favor of the very poor, and by various exemptions,
either partial or total, and the effort is made to mitigate the
burden which would otherwise fall upon them.
In the next place the expense of collecting taxes is an
important item for consideration. To collect taxes with exact

equality might require a very large expenditure and involve
otherwise many difficulties. It is important that the revenues
of a government should be cheaply and certainly and easily
collected, and modes are, therefore, contrived with this end in
view.
Again, moral purposes are taken into view. There are
some consumable articles, such as intoxicating drinks, indulgence in which it is the policy of some States to endeavor to
repress, and they seek and carry out this object by imposing
duties upon such commodities, and thereby increasing their
price and making the use of them more difficult. The wisdom
of such enactments is the subject of much dispute.
Again, some forms of taxation, otherwise very desirable
because just and equal, are avoided, because of the ease with
which they may be evaded. The income tax is supposed to
be particularly open to this objection. It is, however, not so
much to be objected to on this account as the personal property tax in large communities. Notwithstanding this objection, however, it may be said that the income tax is at the
present day everywhere among civilized States a part of the
system of taxation.
There is another form of taxation which society adopts
which flagrantly disregards the principle of equality, indeed,
pays no regard to it whatever; but which is recommended
to statesmen and public administrators by some especial qualities which it possesses. This is the tax on consumable goods,
whether foreign or domestic. It is said, with truth, that this
mode of collecting the taxes saves great expense, and it is
also said with truth, that it is a very desirable thing for the
good of society, as a whole, to establish and maintain in every
nation all the important industries upon which society depends
for its convenience and its comfort. It is, indeed, a tax which,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

when imposed for this purpose, is particularly liable to abuse,
and the controversy concerning it turns for the most part
upon the real or supposed abuses of it.
But there is another cause tending to introduce inequality
in the burdens of taxation of far greater effect than all the
instances of departure from the rule of equality which I have
just mentioned; and this is a cause which does not arise from
any consideration of the public good whatever, but from the
inherent selfishness of men. In every community those who
feel the burdens of taxation are naturally prone to relieve
themselves from them if they can; and the extent of the
effort which they make to relieve themselves is, in general,
proportionate to the extent of the burden which they suppose
has been laid upon them. One class struggles to throw the
burden off its own shoulders. If they succeed, of course it
must fall upon others. They also, in their turn, labor to get
rid of it, and finally the load falls upon those who will not, or
cannot, make a successful effort for relief. This is, in general,
a one-sided struggle, in which the rich only engage, and it is
a struggle in which the poor always go to the wall.
This struggle on the part of the wealthy and highly organized classes of society constantly, unceasingly exerted, must
necessarily succeed, either completely or partially, and it
does everywhere succeed. The consequence is that in every
country and in every age the principal burdens of taxation
have been borne by the poor. This fact is so universal that it
furnishes no inconsiderable argument in support of the view
that it ought to be so.
Now let me pass from this general view of the grounds,
reasons and motives by which the systems of taxation are
fashioned and shaped, to the conditions in which we in the
United States stood at the period immediately preceding the
enactment of the law before us. We were collecting annually
for governmental expenditure $500,000,000; and the striking
and impressive fact to which I call the attention of the court
is that no one dollar of this amount was collected in accordance with that first and fundamental principle of taxation to
which I have alluded, namely, that it should be proportioned

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST 00.

517

Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

according to the ability to bear the burden. The whole of
this $500,000,000 was collected upon a rule which is a confessed
departure from that principle, and which does not regard it
in the slightest degree. It was collected by duties upon consumable commodities; duties which went into and increased
the price of the articles upon which they were imposed and
were thus paid by every purchaser of them who purchased
them for consumption.
It is alleged by the counsel for the appellant that the
income tax - and this they consider its most monstrous form
of injustice -falls upon two per cent only of the population
of the United States; but what must we think of the fact
that this two per cent have"been paying but a trifle more than
two per cent of the 8500,000,000, while of the annual income
of the nation, after deducting what would be sufficient to
furnish a living for the people, they have been receiving
probably more than fifty per cent? At the same time
another impressive and startling fact, not adverted to by them,
has also been receiving more and more of the attention of
the people of the country -I
mean the growing concentration of large masses of wealth in an ever diminishing number
of persons.
It was impbssible to avoid the suggestion that there was
some connection between these striking facts, and it was
also impossible that they should not form the point of conflict
around which political contentions would gather. They did
finally succeed in dividing the two great political parties of
the country. At last the party complaining of these things
gained an ascendency in the legislative counsels, and efforts
were made to devise a remedy. This income tax is a part of
that remedy.
The view taken by the Congress which passed the tax law
in question is plain upon its face. The object was to redress
in some degree the flagrant inequality b.V which the great
mass of the people were made to furnish nearly all the revenue, and leave the very wealthy classes to furnish very little
of it in comparison with their means. Of course, nothing,
therefore, was to be taken from the wages of labor, or from

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

very small incomes proceeding from other sources than labor.
How much further the exemption should be carried was a
question upon which great difference of opinion existed, and
there was much contest.
Upon the passage of the law it was very naturally greeted
by those upon whom the principal burden was imposed with
much dissatisfaction. Efforts on the part of those who can
afford to make such efforts to throw off the burdens of taxation were made, not only before the passage of the law, but
they were resumed in another form after the law was passed.
These suits are the result.
Some general criticisms made by way of objection to the
law, and supposed to be sufficient to condemn it, are wholly
lacking in merit: they amount to clamor only. It is said to
be class legislation, and to make a distinction between the rich
and the poor. It certainly does. It certainly is class legislation in that sense. That was its very object and purpose.
This is a distinction which should always bQ looked to in the
business of taxation. Unfortunately heretofore it has been
observed in the wrong direction, as I have already pointed
out, and the poorer class prodigiously over-burdened.
It is said also to be sectional legislation, and that too is true.
It is so, not in terms, but in operation and effect; but it is so
only because wealth has become sectional. If either of the
two objections alluded to could be allowed to prevail, it would
be forever impossible for this country to lay any income tax
whatever. Such features belong to the very nature of an income tax.
There are two principal objections urged against the law.
First, it is said that the income tax is a direct tax, and therefore an infraction of the constitutional requirement that such
taxes should be apportioned among the States according to
population, and in the next place it is said that if it is not a
direct tax it must -be a duty, impost, or excise, and then invalid because not uniform throughout the United States. There
is, besides, a third objection applying to income drawn from a
particular description of property, namely, state and municipal bonds, which objection insists that that form of property

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

519

Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

is a subject withdrawn from jurisdiction of the Federal government.
As to the first of these questions, whether the taxes are direct
or not, I begin by saying that it is not open to debate in this
court. If it is possible to put a question at rest by solemn
judicial decision, acquiesced in and undisturbed for a long series
of years, this should be regarded as beyond the reach of further
agitation. I am not one of those who make a fetich of the
doctrine of stwre decisis. Even this tribunal, as it has often
told us, is liable to err, and it has on numerous occasions
revised its decisions and corrected them for supposed error.
The question arose a very few years after the Constitution
went into operation. It arose upon a dispute as to whether a
carriage tax was a direct tax within the meaning of the Constitution. As is freely admitted by the counsel upon the other
side, according to their interpretation, such a tax is a direct tax,
and ought therefore to be apportioned. A supreme court,
three of whose members had participated in the deliberations
of the convention at Philadelphia, decided, without dissent,
that such a tax was not, within the contemplation of the
Constitution, a direct tax. The case was argued by the most
eminent lawyers of the time. It was considered with the greatest deliberation. It is for these reasons entitled to the highest
regard ; but it has an authority far beyond that which these
reasons would furnish. It was the decision of men who had
themselves had a hand in the framing of these very provisions
of the Constitution, who bad participated in the debates which
preceded their adoption, and who had qualifications, therefore, for construing its meaning far superior than any which
have ever since been, or can now be, found.
The question has since that time, and after the passage of
the internal revenue laws during and subsequent to the period
of the war, in several distinct cases, come before this tribunal.
In every instance the views which the learned counsel for the
appellant have urged here have been rejected; and the views
announced by the Supreme Court in the Hylton case, have
been considered and adopted. When a court undertakes to
review and correct the opinions of its predecessors it does so

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

upon the assumption that it occupies a superior position and
enjoys better lights and assistances for the ascertainment of
truth than those which were possessed and enjoyed at the time
the decision was made. Will this court think that, after the
lapse of a hundred years, the Constitution can be construed
upon a disputed point better than at the time when the instrument itself was framed?
And then what good is to be gained by a reconsideration?
Has it been found that the operation of the law as declared
in ]7ylton v. United States has been productive of injustice

which demands a remedy? And what is the new mode of
laying a tax like this which the learned counsel for the appellant propose to substitute in place of the one required by the
doctrine hitherto established? Simply this: they demand
that the tax shall be an apportioned tax among the States
according to population, when the very subject of taxation
may not be found at all in some States, and in others found
only to a very slight extent, and in others found in overwhelming measure. And all this to prevent a slight burden
being lifted from the shoulders of the poor, who have borne
it so long, and placed upon the shoulders of the rich who
have been comparatively exempt!
It is said that the term "direct tax" had a distinct and
well-understood meaning at the time of the adoption of the
Constitution, and that such meaning should therefore be
accepted. But upon looking into the literaiure of the time
we find that this is far from being the truth, at least so far
as any use of the term is concerned with which American
statesmen and legislators may be supposed to have been
acquainted. We find that the economists of that day were
divided, as they have been from that time to this, in their
views as to the incidence of taxation. Some Taint support
for the appellants may be found in the writings of Turgot,
the celebrated French economist, but his book was not translated at the time, and we can hardly suppose it to have been
known beyond a very select few of the members of the convention. And as to Adam Smith, also referred to, there was
doubtless a very considerable acquaintance among the most

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

521

Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

prominent of American statesmen of the constitutional period
with the works of that illustrious writer. But does he make
any such distinction as that insisted upon? Does he draw
any line of division between taxes as being direct or indirect?
None whatever. He evidently considered the distinction of
no value, and it certainly is of no value until economists have
become so agreed upon the subject of the incidence of taxation that it can be made to import something far more definite than it has hitherto done.
In the convention which framed the Constitution the question was asked without being answered: "What is a direct
tax?" No such definition, no such distinction, as the learned
counsel for the appellants now insist upon is anywhere to be
found in the constitutional debates of the time, or, if there is
any, their eager research has failed to disclose it. In short,
in place of a distinct and determinate meaning of the term
we find nothing but doubt and obscurity. Is this the sort of
clear signification of words which the law justifies us in assuming to have been intended wherever the words are found?
What is the true pathway which the law follows in such
cases? When it cannot find any clear ordinary meaning of
words sufficient to furnish a correct guide to determine the
real thoughts of men, it carefully scrutinizes the instrument
itself which is to be interpreted, and seeks to inform itself
of the principal objects and purposes which the framers of
it had in view, and puts such a meaning upon the language
employed as will best carry out those things and purposes.
Acting upon this sound principle we at once gain light. We
observe, in the first place, that the injunction of the Constitution is that all direct taxes shall be apportioned among the
States according to population, and therefore such taxes
as could not; with some reasonable approach to justice and
equality as between the States, be thus apportioned, could not
have been regarded by the framers of the Constitution as
direct taxes, even if, according to the preponderating opinion,
or understanding, of the time among economists, such taxes
would more properly be classed under the denomination of
direct.

OCTOBER TERNK, 1894.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 1894.

-

At that time, the ordinary method of collecting taxes
known and in use in this country, other than capitation taxes,
was the tax on land. The principal revenues of the States_
were everywhere collected in this manner. The tax upon
personal estate may have had some feeble operation in some
quarters, but no considerable amount of revenue, I think, was
anywhere derived from it; and, in most parts of the country,
it amounted to nothing at all. There was another tax which
was resorted to as a partial tax designed to reach a class of
persons who were able to pay a tax, and yet were not landholders. That was a tax upon particular trades, occupations
and callings, such as lawyers, physicians, mechanics and traders. This has been called an income tax. In some respects it
partakes of that character, but really is so no more than all taxes.
partake of that character. All taxes are eventually paid out
of incomes, except where a nation makes such ruinous imposts
as to encroach upon capital, but they are not for that reason
income taxes. The true income tax is a tax which disregards
the matter of occupations and callings, personal property,
land, or any source from which the income comes; nor is it
laid upon gross receipts, but upon the net receipts after thepayment of expenses. Now, it is the characteristic of these
taxes, other than the general form of taxation then in use,
that is land taxes and capitation taxes, that they are partial.
They rest upon particular subjects of taxation, and are the
incidental and supplementary methods of raising the revenue
designed to complete a system. In this respect they resemble
imposts, duties and excises. They are laid upon particular
things, or upon particular sources of revenue. A tax upon
persons engaged in the sale of intoxicating liquors may indeed in one aspect be regarded as a direct tax; but in the
minds of men it is more naturally viewed as an excise. Certainly it could not have been intended by the framers of the
Constitution, that these partial and supplementary taxes, in
use in some places and not in others, which fall upon particular subjects, which might, or might not, be found distributed
in some degree proportionately to the population, should be
apportioned, and such were not therefore within their con-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

523

Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

templation direct taxes. They certainly did not intend to
limit the power of Congress to raise revenue, either in this, or
in any other form of taxation. The broad power of taxation,
in whatever form, was granted to Congress, and we cannot
limit it by any implications. What, therefore, in their minds
could not be apportioned, cannot be regarded as direct within
the meaning of that word as employed by them. This is the
precise reasoning which was adopted by the learned judges in
Ilylton, v. United States.
Let me now call attention to a consideration which I do not
think has as yet been adverted to, and which I do not find
in any of the briefs. It is perfectly well known from the
history of the time that the question of taxation was one
which greatly excited local and state jealousies and apprehensions. A principal source of revenue, then as since, had been
derived from duties on imports. That the States should still
preserve this means of defraying their expenses was a lost
hope. That concern, together with all others which touch
the common interest, had necessarily to be surrendered to the
new government. In surrendering it one care was taken,
namely, that the power should not be used, so as to make
distinctions between State and State, but should be exercised
with uniformity throughout the United States. But how
should these taxes be so imposed as to bear equally upon the
different members of the new government? Apprehensions
upon this point were very natural and they were very strong.
One good general test would be to apportion and distribute
them according to the wealth of the country. But how could
the wealth of the country be ascertained by any reasonably
correct assessment? This was an insuperable obstacle in the
way of adopting that criterion. The next best criterion as
between different communities is of course relative numbers.
But here a difficult question arose, and that was whether
slaves should be treated as property, or as persons, and thus
the subject of taxation became involved with the subject of
representation. The Southern States preferred that in taking
the population for the purposes of taxation the slaves should
not be counted. The North did not wish to impose an injus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

tice upon the South, but it was determined that the slaves
should not be counted for the purposes of representation, and
left out for the purposes of taxation. The South felt that it
was taking an additional burden if it allowed the slaves to
be counted, but it preferred to assume it rather than lose the
dearly prized representation. The same rule therefore was
adopted as was provided for representation, and a compromise effected upon that.
Now in all this we perceive that while the minds of the
members of the convention were intensely engaged upon the
subject of how taxation should fall upon the States, they did
not very much- indeed they did not apparently at allconsider how it was going to fall upon and affect different
classes of individuals in the States themselves. I cannot find
anywhere any proof that this subject even engaged their attention, and yet it was a most important one. I cannot help
thinking that this omission to give attention to this consideration arose, not wholly from the fact that the minds of the
members of the convention were chiefly bent upon securing
their respective States from undue burdens, but also from the
fact that by the term direct taxes they looked only to those
general methods of raising revenue which prevailed at the
time, and that in their minds the words embraced only those
general and universal taxes laid upon subjects which were
necessarily found wherever population was found, namely,
capitation taxes, and taxes upon land.
I now pass to the other principal objection against the tax,
and that is that if it be an impost, duty, or excise, it is invalid
because not uniform throughout the United States. It is insisted by our adversaries that "uniform throughout the
United States" means two things. First, that the tax itself
should have a certain character; and, second, that when that
character has once been impressed upon it, it should operate
precisely the same throughout the country. We say, on the
other hand, that in making this grant of power no limit was
imposed by Congress as to the character of the tax itself, but
that, whatever plan or method should be adopted for laying
it, the same plan and method should operate alike in all the

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

525

Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

States. Whatever subject is taxed anywhere, the same subject must be taxed everywhere, and at the same rate. This
construction is demanded by the plain meaning of the phrase
on its face.
It is, moreover, reinforced and strengthened by the consideration to which I have already alluded, namely, that while
the convention gave the most studied attention to the matter
of securing fairness and equality as between States, it did not
give the like attention to securing equality of operation as
between the individual citizens of each State. The notion of
our adversaries is, that it was the design of this provision of
the Constitution to secure equality between individuals upon
whom the tax was imposed and upon whom the burden really
rests- an equality which consists in exacting from one set of
men under certain circumstances just the same sum and no
more than that which is exacted from another set of men who
are in the same circumstances. We must see that this could
not have been the intention when we consider that this word
" uniformity" is applied to the case of duties, imposts and excises alone.
The true interpretation to give to this constitutional requirement is, that it was designed to secure territorial uniformity in
the operation of the taxation. This is what the plain meaning
of the words requires on their face, and the real error of our
opponents is that they read out of the provision the words
"throughout the United States."
I admit, however, that, quite aside from this requirement
of the Constitution, Congress is bound to observe, in laying
duties, imposts and excises, a certain rule or principle, extremely ill expressed by the word "uniformity," and yet
having some of the elements indicated by that word. This
principle is one which has been declared many times by this
court, and that is, that under our system of government,
whether national or state, there is no room for the exercise
of what is called arbitrary power. All the powers of government are, in a certain sense, given and held in trust that they
will be exercised for public objects and on public grounds and
reasons. What is arbitrary power? It is power exercised,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

not as a trust, but as if it were the private and personal possession of those who exercise it. It is a power exercised in
disregard of the idea that those who exercise it are morally
accountable to those from whom it proceeds. It is, in short,
a power exercised upon other than public grounds and public
reasons. The business of determining what particular burdens of taxation shall fall upon particular classes of people,
and how the classes shall be made and arranged, is the province of the legislature, and of the legislature alone, and the
judicial tribunals have absolutely nothing to do with it except
where there is some constitutional provision imposing a limit,
or imposing a method, upon the exercise of the power of taxation. Whenever the legislature creates a class for the purpose
of taxation, and differentiates that class by grounds and reasons which are public in their nature, and which, whether
right or wrong, wise or unwise, are grounds and reasons upon
which intelligent legislators might honestly act, it is within its
province; it is not exercising arbitrary power; it is proceeding upon public grounds, and its action cannot be reviewed
by the judicial tribunals. Applying this rule to the provisions exempting incomes to the amount of $4000, and to the
exemptions of successions to realties, we say that it is a matter entirely within legislative discretion.
Then there are objections to certain exemptions of a quite
different character. I mean those exemptions examples of
which are savings banks. Indulgence to these is, in many
forms, everywhere, and under all systems of taxation, extended, and such exemptions have many times received the
approval of judicial tribunals, the practice of the making of
small savings as a provision against old age, sickness, and disability, which is effected through the instrumentality of savings banks, is one of those practices and tendencies which
every State ought to encourage. It raises the condition of
every individual who engages in it. It makes him a property
holder, and therefore makes him a friend instead of an enemy
to the institution of property, an institution which lies at the
very basis of our civilization, and which ought to be encouraged
in every possible manner, and particularly to be encouraged by

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

527

Mr. Carters' Argument for Appellee in 894.

those who have large interests and who are so apprehensive of
the future. Moreover, it indirectly furnishes a great relief to
the whole community in the general burden of taxation, for
by means of it individuals make provision for themselves for
their support in old age and disability, without which provision they would become a direct burden upon the State. All
statesmen and economists are agreed that here is a most useful field for the exercise of legislative discretion - that here
is a particular in which exemption from the burden of taxation may be made to bring the most solid and most general
public advantages.
Another objection is against the exemption in favor of
companies doing business on the mutual plan whilst stock
companies doing the same business are not exempted. Here it
is strenuously urged is a distinction without a difference; but
there is a very palpable difference, and one which furnishes a
clear public ground which may properly engage the attention
of legislators when employed in laying the burdens of taxation.
So far as respects life insurance companies doing business on
the mutual plan, there are some distinct reasons in favor of
exemption. The business of life insurance performs a similar
function in the State to that which is performed by savings
banks. It is a mode, not the same in its details, but very
similar in principle, by which individuals are induced to save
from time to time small sums from their incomes for the purpose of making provision, sometimes for themselves, sometimes
for their children or those who are dependent upon them, in
the cases of old age, disability, and death. All this is in the
highest degree a matter of public importance and of public interest. It is a disposition which should be favored. It is a
disposition which, if indulged, leads men to look forward to
the acquisition of property, even though it may be a small
property. It makes them friends to the institution instead of
enemies. It secures to them the blessings and enjoyments of
private property. Much ado is made on the other side about
the enormous accumulations of these life insurance companies.
They are said to amount to a sum in the case of a single company of $200,000,000, and the intimation is that it is a gross

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

departure from reason to leave such an immense amount of
property exempted from taxation. But those who exhibit
these pictures to the court of enormous accumulations of
property did not at the same time state the vast number of
people who are interested in that property, and to whom in a
just sense it belongs, and among whom its benefits are distributable. If the accumulated reserve of the life insurance company referred to exceeds $200,000,000, it is probable that the
number of persons interested in it and to whom it equitably
belongs, and among whom it will from time to time be distributed, amounts probably to half a million.
But it is insisted that the distinction made between mutual
and stock companies of other kinds, such as those engaged in
the ordinary business of insurance, has not these considerations
to support it, nor, indeed, any consideration at all; that it is
a distinction without a difference; but this is not so. There
is a well-founded distinction between these classes of corporations. Take, for instance, the case of the business of marine
insurance which is conducted by both stock and mutual
companies. What is its nature when conducted by a stock
company? Its general nature, whether conducted by a stock
or a mutual company, is the prevention of serious loss and,
perhaps, ruin to a single individual by the occurrence of a
peril insured against, when, if the same loss were distributed
among a large number it would not be sensibly felt. Private
underwriters, whether incorporated or unincorporated, when
they engage in such a business take from the other callings of
life, and from productive employments, a certain amount of
capital and put it aside as a sum from which to pay losses
which may from time to time arise from particular perils.
They insure against such perils, charge a price for such
insurance, and make a profit for themselves upon which they
live. The object of a mutual company is to enable those who,
require this insurance to dispense with the necessity of employing this outside capital and paying interest on it, by
organizing themselves together and, their number being very
large, creating a fund by small contributions of money and
notes in the form of premiums, and thus become the insurers.

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

529

Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

of each other; in other words, by distributing a loss which
falls, in the first instance, upon a particular one, upon a great
number. Accordingly those who participate in mutual insurance pay their premiums, in cash, or partly in cash and
partly in the shape of notes, and thus create a fund upon
which an immediate draft can be made, in case of a particular
loss, sufficient to furnish an indemnity against it, and if, at
the end of the year, the whole amount paid in is not exhausted
in paying losses, the residue is distributed, and paid back.
They do not make a dollar of profit themselVes in any instance.
Then it is said that there is a wholly inexcusable exemption
in favor of individuals and against corporations generally, in
that corporations are not allowed a deduction of $4000 from
their incomes, although individuals engaged in precisely the
same business enjoy it. I undertake to say that this discrimination is not only founded upon public considerations, but
that it is entirely and indisputably right.
The case of building and loan companies has been alluded
to, and it is said some of them have large accumulations of
property. What is a building and loan company? It is a
contrivance by which a large number of people of small means
may unite together, and by their small contributions made
from time to time, mainly from the savings of labor, get together a large fund which may be used in the purchase of
property and its improvement by the building of houses for the
occupation of the members, and which becomes their property
when they shall have completed the requisite payments for it.
It is an institution of the same character with savings banks
and life insurance companies and calculated to perform the
same useful services to the public. I wonder that large property holders should ever look with jealousy upon the extension of indulgence as to such enterprises as this. They are the
most efficient agencies which can possibly be employed to induce the great mass of the community to make savings which
will end eventually in their becoming private property holders, and thus attach them to the institution and make them
ready at any time to defend it against all enemies.
There are other exemptions to which exception has been
VOL. cLv--34

OCTOBER TERT, 1894.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

taken, but what I have already said will sufficiently dispose of
them. It will be obvious when they come to be considered
that there is nothing arbitrary in any of them. They all of
them stand upon public grounds and public reasons, and the
aim of all of them is to extend benefits - very small benefits
indeed - but still benefits which have a powerful tendency to
encourage the disposition to make savings, to encourage the
ambition and desire to become owners of property, and thus to
strengthen at its foundation the basis upon which the prosperity and even the existence of states depends. So much for
the question of uniformity.
There is another objection made to a distinct feature of this
law, resting, not upon grounds of a failure to observe uniformity, but upon the allegation that the subject-matter upon the
income of which the tax is imposed has been withdrawn from
the field of federal authority and cannot be touched directly
or indirectly. This is the case "of state and municipal bonds,
the income of which, it is said, is taxed under this law without authority. I do not doubt that it was the intention of
the law to tax this income. It would be extremely unfortunate and unwise if, upon any view, this species of property
were withdrawn from the sphere of federal taxation. The
reasons upon which the claim to exemption is put are drawn
from a series of decisions by this court upon the question of
the right of a state to tax the agencies and instrumentalities
of the Federal government, such, for instance, as United States
bonds, and the United States banks.
I think the objection is untenable, first, because if the tax
is a tax upon any state agency, it is a tax upon the borrowing
power, and this is not necessary to municipalities, or even to
States, in any such sense or degree, as it is necessary to the
United States. The great exigency.of war, which is the principal case calling for an exercise of the borrowing power, if
not the only one in which loans are absolutely necessary, does
not rest upon the States. Their existence with all their functions can be maintained by means of revenue derived from
taxation, and perhaps it would be better if no other means had
ever been resorted to by them. In the next place this court

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

531

Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellee in 894.

has held what must undoubtedly be true, that each State has
the right to tax the municipal and state bonds of every other
State, and shall it be said that the United States do not have
the power to tax a species of property which every other State
in the Union has the power of taxing?
A few words in conclusion upon the general aspects of this
case, and, especially, as they relate to the question of uniformity.
I am not one of those who believe in what is called a
latitudinary construction of the powers of Congress, and who
seek to circumscribe within the narrowest limits the power
of this tribunal to sit in judgment upon the validity of congressional action. Ours is a government of delegated and
limited powers, and I hope the day will never come when
this court will hesitate to declare that the limit has been
passed, when it is clearly convinced of the fact. But I also
hope that it will forever decline the office of judgment in
cases where the question does not assume a purely judicial
form; and that it will especially refrain when there is mingled
with the question any element of legislative discretion which
cannot be separated from it. The powers of this court are
limited as well as those of Congress, and those limits are
already transgressed when it finds itself even considering
whether this or that view of a question of political economy,
or of the wisdom of taxation, is a sound one.
These suggestions are all the more weighty and important
in those controversies which, like the present are calculated to
arouse the interests, the feelings - almost the passions - of
the people, form the subject of public discussion, array class
against class, and become the turning points in our general
elections. Upon such subjects every freeman believes that he
has a right to form his own opinion, and to give effect to
that opinion by his vote. Nothing could be more unwise
nothing more foreign to the spirit of the
and dangerousConstitution - than an attempt to baffle and defeat a popular
determination by a judgment in a lawsuit. When the opposing forces of sixty millions of people have become arrayed in
hostile political ranks upon a question which all men feel is

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

not a question of law, but of legislation, the only path of safety
is to accept the voice of the majority as final. The American
people can be trusted not to commit permanent injustice; nor
has history yet recorded an instance in which governments
have been destroyed by attempts of the many to lay undue
burdens of taxation on the few. The teachings of history
have all been in the other direction.
. r. Joseph Hi. Choate for Pollock, appellant in 893, and for
Hyde, appellant in 894. Mr. Charles F. Southmayd was on
his brief.
I look upon this case with very different eyes from those
of either the Attorney General or his associate who has just
closed. I believe there are private rights of property here to
be protected; that we have a right to come to this court and
ask for their protection, and that this court has a right, without asking leave of the Attorney General or of any counsel,
to hear our plea. The act of Congress which we are impugning before you is communistic in its purposes and tendencies,
and is defended here upon principles as communistic, socialistic- what shall I call them - populistic as ever have been
addressed to any political assembly in the world.
Now, what is this law? My friend, MJr. Carter, has said
that in the convention which created the Constitution there
was one ever-present fear. There was; I agree with him as
to that. It was that by a combination of States an unjust
tax might be put upon a single State or upon a small group
of States. Let us see about this act which, exempting all
incomes under $4000 of individuals, but denying the exemuption to corporations and to persons drawing their income
from corporations, seeks to raise a sum, as has been stated
here, of from $30,000,000 to $50,000,000. There are sources
of information as to how such a law will strike, to which I
wish to direct the attention of the court.
There was formerly an income-tax law, and the last year
it was in force was the year 1873. The exemption then was
$2000. In that year the collections for that tax were such
in the States of New York, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, and

POLLOCK v. FARMERS'

LOAN & TRUST CO.

533

Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

New Jersey that even then, with that exemption, those four
States paid four-fifths of the entire tax. What is their political power? What is their political representation in the lower
House of Congress, which only can initiate and secure the
passage of revenue bills? Eighty-three out of three hundred
and fifty-six, or a little less than one-quarter. Anybody who
knows anything about the operation of these income-tax laws
and as to the effect of changing the exemption from $2000 to
$4000, knows that that inequality of burden will, under the
act of 1894, press upon those four States with vastly greater
force. This most iniquitous result has been brought about by
an express violation of two of the leading restraints of the
Constitution.
Did your Honors observe what the learned counsel claimed,
namely, that $20,000 might have been made the minimum of
exemption of taxation of this law, and there would have been
no help for it? If you approve this law, with this exemption
of $4000, and this communistic march goes on and five years
hence a statute comes to you with an exemption of $20,000
and a tax of 20 per cent upon all having incomes in excess of
that amount, how can you meet it in view of the decision
which my opponents ask you now to render? There is protection now or never. If it goes out as the edict of this judicial tribunal that a combination of States, however numerous,
however unanimous, can unite against the safeguards provided
by the Constitution in imposing a tax which is to be paid by
the people in four States or in three States or in two States,
but of which the combination is to pay almost no part, while
in the spending of it they are to have the whole control, it will
be impossible to take any backward step. You cannot hereafter exercise any check if you now say that Congress is untrammelled and uncontrollable. My friend says you cannot
enforce any limit. He says no matter what Congress does, if
in its views of so-called-what did he call it ? - sociology,
political economy, it establishes a limit of a minimum of
$20,000 or a minimum of $100,000, this court will have nothing to say about it. I agree that it will have nothing to say
about it if it now lets go its hold upon this law - upon a law

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

passed for such a purpose, accomplishing such a result and by
such means.
I have thought that one of the fundamental objects of
all civilized government was the preservation of the rights
of private property. I have thought that it was the very
keystone of the arch upon which all civilized government
rests, and that this once abandoned, everything was at stake
and in danger. That is what 21r. Webster said in 1820, at
Plymouth, and I supposed that all educated, civilized men
believed in that. According to the doctrines that have been
propounded here this morning, even that great fundamental
principle has been scattered to the winds.
It is not any part of our mission here to question the power
of Congress to raise money by taxation. We believe that
Congress has plenary power in the last exigencies of the government to reach every man, every dollar, every inch of ground,
to secure the common defence and the general welfare; that it
was the purpose of the convention that created the Constitution
to give Congress that power, and that it is one of the absolute
essentials of a great sovereignty which was to cover a continent and to last for untold ages. There is no doubt about that.
We are perfectly aware, too, of the difficulties that lie in our
way; that it is necessary for us to show, in the first place,
either that the power to pass this act was not conferred upon
Congress, or that in passing it Congress has exceeded the
power entrusted to it by the Constitution.
One thing is certain, absolutely certain, that although the
power was given Congress to tax, no power was given it to
confiscate; and that, the Attorney General and his associates
all admit. If this is a confiscation under the forms of law,
there is no power given to Congress in the Constitution that
could by any possibility enable it to validly enact such a law.
I can add nothing to the wealth of argument, the force and
power of the claim presented by m two associates, that this
tax is wholly void because absolutely in all its parts a direct
tax not imposed by the rule of apportionment. But, as we
may distrust, in view of the former decisions of this court,
the willingness of the court to come to such a conclusion as

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

535

Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

that an income tax in all its extent, levied upon all callings,
levied upon all earnings as well as upon the rents of land and
the income of personal property, is in the meaning of the
Constitution a direct tax, I may present the case as to direct
taxes upon somewhat narrower grounds, grounds consistent
with every case that has yet been decided by this court, and
maintained by the uniform course of the Federal government in its legislative capacity for over half a century after
the adoption of the Constitution. If you should conclude that
it is not possible to condemn this entire tax law as unconstitutional because entirely a direct tax, my purpose is to present,
then, the only safe and practicable alternative upon which
this court can place, as I believe, any decision, and which is
based upon the clear distinction, the distinction which we find
in the Constitution itself, between direct taxes upon the on;
hand, and duties, imposts, and excises upon the other.
Therefore, for the purposes of this argument, I shall assume
that it may possibly be decided by this court, as it has so often
been decided before, that all duties, all excises, all imposts are
shut out from the class of direct taxes by the necessary meaning and effect of the Constitution, and that they are to be
administered by the rule of uniformity, as they ought to be
in this law and are not. I shall claim, upon the other hand,
that at any rate so far as regards the direct, inevitable,
necessary income, and outgrowth of real estate and of personal
estate, the tax is a direct tax levied upon the proper subject
of a direct tax within the meaning of the Constitution, and is
therefore invalid.
First, I desire to call attention to the rules regulating the
power and the methods of exercising the power of taxation,
laid down in the Constitution, which are absolutely imperative
upon Congress and from which by no contrivance, by employing no name, can it possibly escape.
Under the provision of section 2 of article I of the Constitution, it had already been declared that representatives and
direct taxes should be apportioned among the several States
according to the census, according to numbers to be ascertained by an original census, and by a decennial census

OCTOBER' TEIRV[, 1894.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

from time to time, as years rolled on.

The framers had not
yet, so far as concerns the arrangement of sections in the Constitution as it was finally drawn, given to Congress the general
power to tax. That first provision was a restraint upon what
was intended to be given by a subsequent clause, all of course
finally speaking with one voice. Then the framers came to
the first clause of the eighth section, which described the
power of Congress, and naturally and necessarily gave to
Congress plenary power of taxation, which might meet the
exigencies, necessities, and demands of the Government at any
period and under any stress. I agree with the Attorney General that nothing could be more comprehensive; that no other
language could be- used to include the entire power of taxation
which it was the evident, the obvious, the necessary purpose
of the framers to bestow upon the new government. "Cougress shall have power to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts,
and excises." They added, however, to that clause, "but all
duties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform throughout the
United States," which I understand to mean exwtly what it
says- that all duties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform
duties, uniform imposts, uniform excises throughout the United
States.
The first question that suggests itself is why these words
added in that particular form, especially why the word " taxes"
was included in the grant of power and excluded from this
particular modification of it. I am not one of those who attribute ignorance or heedlessness or acting in the dark or in a
maze to the men who, after sitting four months together,
evolved this piece of work. I submie that upon every reasonable rule of construction, in view of the nature and character
of those men, in view of the light of the history of the confederation and of English history in which they were acting, they
intended by their prescription of methods of exercising the
power to cover absolutely the whole subject of taxation, and
that the reason why the limitation as to uniformity, the prescription of method as to uniformity, was applied to duties,
imposts, and excises was that the framers knew very well that
they had already prescribed the measure for all other taxes

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

537

Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

under the term of direct taxes. The undoubted reason why
the framers of the Constitution limited the provision of the
method of uniformity for the measurement of taxes to duties,
imposts, and excises was that they understood that they had
already provided for the measurement of all other taxes.
In respect to this, what the Attorney General says regarding the uniform conduct of the government from the beginning is entitled to our greatest respect, and I draw from it
what appears to me to be a very strong argument and one that
I do not remember to have heretofore seen suggested. Your
Honors will remember that Mr. Justice Chase in the case of
-Hyltonr v. United States threw out the suggestion that there
was some mistake about the word "taxes" in the first clause of
the eighth section ; that all duties, imposts and excises necessarily were taxes; and he hinted that possibly there might
be some kind of a tax of which he could not then think, the
nature of which he did not intimate, that might neither upon
the one hand be a direct tax, nor upon the other be a duty, an
impost, or an excise. That suggestion has lifigered in the
minds of the profession from about a hundred years ago until
now, and you find it reproduced in the brief of the learned
Attorney General or of his associate. They say that there
may be a tax which on one side is neither a direct tax, nor on
the other side a duty, impost, or excise.
Now, for the argument that I draw from it: How about the
corpus of personal property? If a tax upon that were such a
tax, neither direct upon the one hand nor a duty, impost, or
excise on the other, then what would follow? What Air. Justice Chase suggested, that neither rule prescribed would apply;
that it would not have to be rated either according to apportionment or according to uniformity. Would it not have suggested itself to some astute mind connected with the executive
or legislative departments of the government at some time
since the adoption of the Constitution until now, in all the
great exigencies and emergencies of the nation, that there was
a tax unlimited in respect to measure, in the meting out of
which there was no restraint upon Congress? Under that construction, under that theory or imagination, what has there

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

been from the beginning to prevent Congress from raising all
the money required for the purposes of the government from
the corpus of personal property throughout the United States
without any rule of apportionment, without any rule of uniformity, laying it exactly as it pleased, and coming to every
citizen, saying, "I find you are worth so much personal property; pay me two per cent of that." Io; this has never
been dreamed of -it
has never been suggested to this hour and why not? It is because everybody who thought for a
moment about this subject knew that the judgment I have
ascribed to the framers of the Constitution was sound and right,
namely, that in providing for direct taxes and that direct taxes
should be collected according to apportionment, they covered
a tax upon personal property.
The income of all accumulated property, whether it be the rent
of lands or the interest of bonds or the immediate outgrowth of
any other specific form of personal property, is necessarily, under
the Constitution, the subject of a direct tax and of no other.
One thing i absolutely certain in this Constitution, and that
is that the difference between the subjects of taxation by
apportionment and taxation by the rule of uniformity was
considered one of vast importance by the framers of the
Constitution. It was no trifling thing. They did not think
either branch of this question of taxation inconsiderable or
unimportant. My proposition is that real estate itself and
the rent of it, the bulk of personal property and the income from it, was what was in their minds under the subject of direct taxation. I ascertain this by comparing and
studying these clauses of the Constitution which I have already
quoted and the other clauses of the Constitution and the whole
scope and purpose of them. The mere talk of this man or that
in the convention, mere talk of this man or that upon the
bench of any court, unless it was a solemn adjudication upon
his oath of office and the decision of a case, is of very little
weight. I have found from a careful study of it very little
help upon this subject in the debates of the Federal convention,
and I think there are two reasons why no conclusive force, as
Justice Swayne said in the Speinger case, can be drawn from

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

539

Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

them. In the first place, it was not a legislative body: it was
merely a deliberative body, coming voluntarily together at the
invitation of Virginia and of Congress, submitting its work to
Congress with a suggestion that it finally be submitted for
adoption to the conventions of the several States. In the
second place, its deliberations were absolutely secret.
The first step which I take as the starting point of my
argument in support of the proposition that I am submitting is that, whatever else was or was not included in the
term direct tax, real estate was included, real estate in the
several States, real estate that was distributed equally everywhere, found everywhere, in every State, although necessarily differing in value and differing in acreage. From the
beginning, the power to tax land has not been rested upon
theories of distinctions between the increment of land, the
improvement of land, and the growth or value of land; but
it has been applied, according to such practical construction,
to improved and unimproved real estate. There have been
three cases of a direct tax, which has never been imposed
except in cases of great emergency: First, there was the
direct-tax law of 1798, when trouble with France was apprehended; then the land-tax act of 1812, and the direct tax of
1861. All were of one type. They were not taxes on naked
land; they were taxes arranged carefully upon improved and
upon unimproved property, just as a land tax, if you please to
call it so, a direct tax may now be imposed upon rented property and unrented and unproductive property. What did
Congress do? Take the first tax as a specimen of them all.
It said, first, we will tax the houses. That is improved real
property, is it not? That is rented real property, is it not?
It taxed them according to their value, from $3000 ranging
all the way up to $30,000, at a differing rate. Then we will
tax the slaves so much a head. I think it was fifty cents a
head. Then we will tax all the rest of the land a dollar for
a hundred acres or whatever the rule was. So I say there is
an absolute consensus, confirmed by these hundred years of
history, that a direct tax upon land was not a purely naked
land tax, but it was a tax, as I have said, upon all possible
improvements or outgrowth of the property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

Now, we come to the second proposition, which it seems
to me is equally easy to establish, and that is that the rent
of real estate issuing from it is indistinguishable from a tax
on the real property itself. As to this matter of rent, is a
tax on rent distinguishable from a tax on land? I say that a
tax on land yielding income by whatever name is in reality,
in effect and substance, a tax upon the rental. I speak now, of
course, of rented property. I am not foolish enough to argue
that a tax on rents is the same thing as a tax on land which
nobody rents. I am looking, however, at the nature of the tax;
not the form, but the substance. Your Honors will observe
that the tax laid by this law is a yearly tax upon the yearly
rental. Can that be distinguished from a tax on land? I-ow
is a tax on land to be paid, except out of the income? How
is it possible? I mean in the common, ordinary, practical business of life which the court is bound to look at. We are living
under a constitutional government, are we not? We have
regulated the measure of our own taxation by the Constitution.
Was it intended that, although Congress could not put an
unapportioned tax upon real estate, it could put an unapportioned tax upon rent of real estate and so eat all the real estate
up? How can a man pay this five years' annual tax on the
rent of real estate? Absolutely only out of the rental. Would
any free people, if they had prohibited a land tax, submit to a
tax on the rentals?
We are deciding this as a question of law, not of political
economy. I say that every time the courts ever passed upon
the question of an annual tax on land, by whatever name you
call it, whether you call it a real-estate tax or a land tax
or an income tax or whatever you please, it has been held to
be a tax on the immediate ownership, upon the immediate
freehold, and upon the man who was in possession thereof
receiving the income. What has been the law from the beginning of the common law? What do the old writers say? "If
a man seized of land in fee by his deed granteth to another
the profit of those lands to have and to hold to him and his
heirs and maketh livery secunzdumformam chartme, the whole
land itself doth pass. For what is the land but the profits

POLLOOK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

54:1

Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

thereof?"
That is Coke upon Littleton. That has been law
ever since in every court in English Christendom. It is applied
now just the same as it was in the time of Coke. It was
applied in the State of New York to the matter of a devise.
"A devise of the interest or of the rents and profits is a devise
of the thing itself, out of which that interest or those rents
and profits may issue." That is the law as administered by
the Supreme Court of the State of New York when your late
associate, Mr. Justice Nelson, was a member of it.
Let me call attention again to what the Attorney General
says. He says: " Well, when a man has got the money in
his pocket it is no longer rent." One thing I would say about
that, is, that if you are going after the rent as money, the tax
is on personal property and should be apportioned, as I think
I shall demonstrate by and by. But the answer is that the
tax does not go after the rent as money in the tax-payer's
pocket. The act of 1894 specifies the rents as a cardinal part
and element of this income return, and every man who goes
up to make his return has to state under oath what rent he
got last year. This fiction-this difference between the name
and the thing, between the substance and the shadow-urged
by the Attorney General is that, though you cannot tax rent,
you can tax the money in the owner's pocket received from
rent. If there is one factitious argument, one pretence of a
reason, one attempt to make a distinction without a difference
that this court has uniformly stamped upon with all its might,
it is just that. How in principle does the corpus of personal
property differ from a piece of real estate? I own a house
to-day and sell it to-morrow, and take as its consideration a
mortgage on the same property for $10,000, the value of the
house. Is a tax upon the house one kind of a tax and a tax
upon the proceeds of the house another? It cannot be; it is
impossible. There is no real or substantial difference between
a general tax on personal and on real property. No such
thing has ever been decided; no such thing has ever been
hinted at. A tax on personalty has all the elements of a
direct tax exactly as a tax upon real estate. It is directly
imposed; it is presently paid; it is ultimately borne by the

OCTOBER TERI, 1894.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

party owning it. There is no choice for him to escape from
the tax but to run away. There is no volition about it, as
there is in the case of any consumable commodities upon
which excises are laid. Suppose a direct tax be levied upon
real and personal property in the States, could a man whose
personal property was touched by it appeal to the court with
any hope of success and say, "That tax on my personal property is not a direct tax, but is an excise or a duty or impost.
I will pay on my real property, but I will not pay and I shall
appeal to the Supreme Court to free me from paying the portion of the tax that rests upon my personal property." The
court certainly would overrule such a contention. I say there
is not the least distinction between such a case and that presented here.
I think you will have no difficulty in coming to the conclusion that the corpus of personal property is included within
the subject of a direct tax, and that a tax thereon must be
apportioned. How about income derived therefrom? I am
not speaking now, of the earnings and income from labor and
from any calling, trade, profession, or business. I am talking
about te direct income of personal property, as illustrated
by the interest on bonds. Thus the United States issues
certain bonds and declares that the bond shall not be subject
to taxation by any State. I am looking at the question
whether a tax on the interest of the bonds is the same in nature as a tax on the bond itself. A State levies a tax. The
legislature recognizes that the bond itself is protected and
cannot be taxed; but it attempts to circumvent that inhibition by pretending to tax only the income after it has been
collected on the plea that it has lost its identity and is part
of the personal property of the owner of the bond. Would
you say that, although the act of Congress said the bond
should not be subject to tax, all the income therefrom and
all its value might be eaten out by the State putting a tax
upon the income of the bond? Of course, that would be an
impossibility, and it is decisive of this question. The substance is what the Constitution provides for. The substance
of right is what the court is bound to protect.

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

54:3

Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

We may proceed now to inquire how the two rules, apportionment and uniformity, were intended by the makers of
the Constitution to work in practical application to their
respective subjects of taxation. It was then known perfectly
well that apportionment was necessarily a rule of inequality.
Nobody ever supposed or could contemplate that a tax levied
by the rule of apportionment would result in equality of burden as to wealth, or, to state it in other words, that it would
be found that the distribution of real and personal property
was according to the population of the various States, or that
a tax on real and personal property apportioned according to
population would not bear more heavily on some than on
,other States.
You remember that the confederation had no power to
tax; that it had been the subject of an intense struggle since
1781, culminating finally in 1786, and that the confederation
was then on the point of absolute collapse when the constitutional convention came together. The confederation had
demanded the impost, it had demanded the power of taxation in some form or other to save the nation, and the States
never would consent. All remember the quarrel about the
impost, the getting of the impost and the not getting it, and
then came the compromise in the Constitution. It is not
necessary to relate the history of the compromise; bow it
was arrived at.
Accompanying this compromise, came the provisions in
regard to the power of taxation to be vested in Congress, which
we are here to-day to expound. First, there was a surrender
by the States to Congress of the exclusive power to levy taxes
on imports. That had been the great source of revenue to all
the seaboard States; it was known to be an endless resource
for Congress. The States gave it up absolutely, and with it
the power to regulate foreign commerce. Then, too, the States
surrendered forever afterwards the right that they had had
of taxing and regulating commerce between the States. How
much of revenue, how much of sources and subjects of taxing
power that has amounted to, let your Honors' decisions for
the last ten years on interstate commerce questions decide.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

That was one part of the compromise. Then came the grant
to Congress of power to lay indirect taxes, as we now call
them- a grant to Congress of the power to levy, by the rule
of uniformity, duties, imposts and excises.
I say that this rule of apportionment was designed to
operate exactly as it eventually did. What does it result in?
It results, does it not, in a law of protection for the benefit of
the holders of such property as was contemplated as the subject
of the direct taxes? I own a house in New York. I study
the Constitution and I see that it can be made the subject only
of an apportioned tax. If that apportioned tax is applied my
taxes will be less by half or a quarter or a fifth or a tenth, as
the case may be, than ifit were a tax applied by the law of
uniformity. Is not that an absolute and indefeasible right of
the owner in every State just as much as if the Constitution
had provided as a part of this compromise that no taxes should
be levied by the Federal government upon real estate in any
State?
But there is another clause providing that representation
and direct taxes shall go hand in hand. What did that mean?
Why was it that the framers twice said it in the Constitution?
And it is the only thing that they did say twice. They said
it in section 2 of article I, when they provided that representatives and direct taxes should be apportioned according to
numbers, and they said it in section 9 of the same article when
they prescribed that no capitation or other direct tax should
be levied except according to the census. They were fresh
from the struggles about representation going hand in hand
with taxation, and it was for the protection of this property,
this accumulated property in the States, as against the inroad
of the vote of mere numbers, that they stipulated and insisted
upon the guaranty of apportionment -such was the fundamental condition of the States adopting the Constitution.
The purpose was as clear as if it bad been written in so many
words that when the representatives of any State voted in
the I-ouse of Representatives, where only a tax could originate,
upon a law to impose a direct tax upon the property or the
income of property in any State, they should do it under the

POLLOCK v. FARMERS'

LOAN & TRUST CO.

515

Mr. Choate's Argumnent for Appellants.

restraint that according as they possessed the political power
to vote the tax, it should fall upon the citizens of the State
that they represented.
What an object lesson this law is as to these subjects of
direct tax that I have now spoken of, namely, the rents of
land and the income of personal property. Here are the other
forty States, all the States representing that region that has
come in under the provision that new States might be carved
out of the Territories, who have voted to put this direct tax
under the pretence of an income tax upon these seaboard
States, throwing to the winds the restraint that the Constitution placed upon them, and practically exempting their own
States. They have provided that New York, Pennsylvania,
Massachusetts and New Jersey shall pay, as I told you in the
beginning, five times the amount they would pay if the rule
of apportionment guaranteed by the Constitution had not
been utterly disregarded.
This question as to a direct tax upon the income of real
and personal property has never been decided. Not only
that; it has never been considered; it has never been presented to this court. When my learned friends on the other
side get up and say there is nothing to debate here, we
answer that the question whether a tax on the rents is in real
substance and effect different from a tax on the real property
itself, and whether a tax on the income of personal property
is different from a tax on the corpus of personal property has
never been presented here.
My friends say that we are bound to lose our case in toto
because the questions have been adjudicated adversely to our
contention. There are five cases upon which they rely.
[Mr. Choate then examined the lylton case ; Pacific fis.
Co. v. Soule; Veazie Bank v. Fenno ; Scoley v. Rew ; and
Springer v. United States; and contended that the questions

in issue here had not been decided there.]
As to the rest of this law and the provisions which operate
as an excise or duty upon income derived from business or
work of any kind, we contend that there is a gross violation
of uniformity, and therefore that the whole law is void.
VOL. CLVII-

3

5

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

What is meant in the clause "uniform throughout the United
States?" It would seem that that is capable of solution
without imputing heedlessness to Washington, Hamilton,
Madison, Franklin, and the other men who sat with them in
the convention. Clearly the word "uniform" means something and was inserted for some definite purpose. *
In our view there is no mistake as to what the meaning of the
word " uniform" is, as an essential quality of a duty, impost,
or excise. It must operate alike upon the class of things or of
persons subject to it. The class may be fixed and bounded by
Congress in its discretion. It is for the courts to say whether
this rule of uniformity has been applied within and throughout the class.
The contrast or antithesis between the rule of apportionment prescribed for direct taxes and the rule of uniformity
prescribed for "duties, imposts, and excises " was designed.
The contrast was intended to be complete and perfect between
each element of the two rules.
The rule of apportionment was known and intended to be
a rule of inequality. This inequality was inevitable and existed in the very nature of the compromise out of which it
resulted. This inequality was recognized as certain to increase as one State grew in population faster than another;
hence the requirement of a decennial census to correct this
inequality, so far as that might do it. lBut there were features
of inequality as between different States which were radical
and incurable by any census. There was and there could be
no such coincidence between population and wealth as the
rule assumed, and the divergence f:om any approximate coincidence would grow, as it has grown with every census.
The rule of uniformity, on the other hand, as applied to
"duties, imposts and excises," was known and intended to be
a rule of approximate and reasonable equality among those
and at all
embraced in the class affected by it -everywhere
times - and no changes of population or of wealth anywhere
would or could affect its force and effect.
The constitutions of nearly all the States have adopted
from the United States Constitution this rule of uniformity,

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

547

Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

and in its practical application the courts of all speak with
one voice as to its meaning, that it is exactly that for which
we contend.
But there is another cardinal difference between the two
rules which is even more radical and far-reaching and compels the construction of the rule of uniformity for which we
contend. It must be observed that the first clause of section
8, Article I, taken by itself, gave to Congress the complete
and unqualified power of taxation, only limited to national
purposes, but wholly unlimited as to place. As it stood alone
the power extended to every inch of the territory and to
every person and every thing within the dominion of the
government created by the Constitution. As it stood alone
Congress could have laid and collected taxes of every kind,
direct and indirect, for national purposes, without regard to
population or wealth or to state boundaries, restrained only
by those fundamental limitations inherent in the very power
of taxation and indispensable in the government of a free
people; but it was no part of the plan of any of them that
this power in the new government should be absolute or unqualified, except as to place and persons. As to place and
persons it should forever remain unqualified and reach as far
and as wide as the territory of the United States and touch
every person and every thing therein. And so they proceeded
to modify and to qualify this power, except as to its extent
in place or space, through the whole territory of the nation,
and except as to its hold upon every person and thing by prescribing the different measures by which the burden of the
different kinds of taxes, direct and indirect, should be meted
out. As to indirect taxes, the modification or qualification
was applied by section 8. As to direct taxes, the measure
was prescribed by section 2.
Thus the Constitution, in prescribing the rule of measuring
direct taxes, deals with the States and with the people therein.
It allots to each State its aliquot part of the total amount to
be collected according to numbers, and the quota of each is
levied and collected from the property of the States, in substance though not in forai, as other state taxes are collected.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

But as to taxes not direct - "duties,gimposts and excises
the situation was wholly different. These, which had belonged
absolutely to the States and which they had persistently
refused to part with, were now surrendered to Congressthe imposts absolutely ; the excises and duties on consumable
commodities to a great extent- because of the impracticability of any State maintaining them against competition with
other and adjoining States, and because of the "commerce"
clause and the "immunities" clause in the Federal Constitution which cut them off from all manner of excises upon interstate commerce and upon incomers from other States who
could no longer be treated as foreigners.
In dealing with these the Constitution no longer dealt with
the States or with the citizens through the States, but directly
with the individual citizen-the individual thing to be subjected to the tax. It wiped out all state lines, ignored the
States entirely, and went directly for the man or the thing,
and whether he or it was found in a State or in the Territories or in the District of Columbia was all one. On all
these alike the purpose was to provide for the exercise of the
taxing power "1througiwiutMe cm ited States" whenever it
should be exercised at all. In each and every part of the
territory of the United Sta~tes, the excise or duty laid or
imposed must rest and operate.
Our construction of this clause has been acted on by the
government from the beginning until now. In no tariff act
-and I call especial attention to this- with all the infinite
variety of classification of goods which those acts contain,

never once has there been a clause in a tariff act which made
the rate of duty to be paid dependent upon the person who
imported the goods, whether it was a person or a corporation,
whether it was a white man or a black man, whether it was a
rich man or a poor man.
Rich and poor, old and young, capitalist and laborer, citizen
and foreigner, corporation and individual, have been accorded
the same right to import the sanae goods at the same rate,
and we do not believe that any departure from this rule of
uniformity has ever been suggested in either house of Con-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

549

Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

gress on the discussion of any tariff bill, and this is the rule
of uniformity throughout the United States for which we contend as to all duties, excises, and imposts.
This brings me to say a few words upon a new doctrine
which has been presented here by the representatives of the
government and strongly urged by my friend Mr. Carter.
The Attorney General says in his brief, at page 83, that the
rule of uniformity has been practically violated in the act
of 1894, but that the law must be regarded not as standing
alone, but as a part of our general system of taxation, and
that so regarded its effect is to bring about an approximation
of equality of taxation. This is, as I understand it, an unequivocal admission that the law in itself is not equal or uniform in
its operation, but that we may speculate that perhaps it works
out uniformity of tax burden upon some theory or notion
of compensation or equivalents. Has such a doctrine ever
before been advanced in this court? It amounts to the claim
on the part of the government that an act of Congress violating the Constitution and utterly lacking in uniformity may
be upheld because some other act or the general tariff laws
operate unequally. Is it true that under the Constitution you
can compensate for intentional inequality of burden in one
set of excises, duties, or imposts by imposing others which
are inherently lacking in every essential element of uniformity? Is this court prepared to go that length and to enunciate
any such construction of the Constitution? This is a doctrine
worthy of a Jacobin club that proposed to govern France; it
is worthy of a Czar of Russia proposing to reign with undisputed and absolute power; but it cannot be done under this
Constitution.
What are the breaches of uniformity here? I shall treat
them briefly in view of the clear and remarkably forcible
presentation on the opening by Air. Guthrie. In the first
place, there is this exemption of everybody with an income
less than $4000. What does this exemption really amount
to? A man living with investments of $133,000 in' bonds
at 3 per cent is a subject of exemption. I hope that we shall
all be able to leave our children each in as good condition

OCTOBER TER-M, 1894.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

as that, and not have Congress claim that he or she should
be classed among the lower middle classes because his or
her income does not exceed $4000. My friend on the other
side has made our argument easier because he has said this
exemption might just as well have been $20,000, and he
said it in earnest. Thus he has conceded that if this classification can stand, a man with $666,000 at 3 per cent or
$500,000 at 4 per cent was a fit subject for exemption. It
is, therefore, for you to decide whether that is a reasonable
exemption.
If you now decline to adjudicate upon the question of
reasonableness and hold that it is outside your province,
no abuse hereafter when the limit is fixed at $20,000 or
more can be checked. The reasonableness of the exemption
is essentially a question of law. Reagaa v. Farmers' L-oan &
Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, 397-399. The discretion is in Congress, but the abuse of that discretion is not remediless.
One word as to the power of the court to adjudicate upon
the reasonableness of an exemption. In the Cidcago, .- ilwaukee, &c. Railway Company v. .innesota, 134 U. S. 418,
the court said that unquestionably the rate of charge for
transportation by a railroad company, involving, as it does,
the element of reasonableness both as regards the company and
as regards the public, is eminently a question for judicial investigation, requiring due process of law for its determination.
I need not refer to the cases there cited or those like the Reagan case, which have followed and applied that doctrine. We
claim that this court is competent and that it is its duty to
judge as to whether this is a reasonable exercise of the power
of exemption or whether it is arbitrary and capricious.
The next ground of exemption of which we complain is the
denial of the $4000 exemption to corporations simply because
they are corporations.
Could this court justify the incorporation of a clause in a
tariff act that a given brand of tea, if imported by an individual, should pay a duty of ten cents, but if imported by a corporation, twenty cents, and nothing if imported by a mutual
association? I have never heard any suggestion from any liv-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

551

Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

ing man that it could. I believe it must be absolutely conceded by everybody that it cannot. If it cannot do it as to a
tariff duty, how can it do it as to an income excise?
Now I come to another ground. It is not necessary for me
to dwell very elaborately upon this, because of the very clear
and forcible manner in which it was presented in the opening
by Mr. Guthrie and appears upon our brief. I say here was a
deliberate, arbitrary, capricious (it is entitled to infinitely worse
names and epithets than capricious or arbitrary) exclusion of certain great and wealthy corporations from the operation of this
law, without justification, without warrant, without any principle of public policy whatever. The Attorney General says in
respect of the exemption of these favored companies that there
is a humane policy always acted on by civilized states. It is
very curious that these civilized states, the United States of
America, did not discover it until now. None of these institutions were exempted under the previous income-tax laws.
Take Trinity church, for example, in New York, with its hundreds of parcels of real property and stores and houses and
millions of property, from which it receives a fabulous income.
Is there any public policy in exempting that income at the
expense of the poorer sections of the country?
Permit me to repeat a few of the figures: Total number of
mutual savings banks exempted, 646 ; total stock savings banks,
378. They do the same business; they take in the money of
depositors for the purpose of investing it and making it bear
interest with a profit upon it in the same way, and the 646 are
exempted and the 378 are taxed. Total deposits in state banks
and trust companies, $1,225,000,000 ; total deposits of savings
banks, $1,748,000,000. That will give you some idea of what
this exemption covers? How are those deposits used? Are
they kept in the vaults of the banks ? No, they are invested
like anybody else's earnings, to make interest and to make
profit on the money.
Now I come to the question of mutual insurance companies.
My friend, Mr. Carter, got up a new idea. He said mutual
companies were organized not to save the poor, but for the
sole purpose of saving expenses and dividing losses. That is

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Choate's Argument for Appellants.

his argument, and those, I think, were his very words. We
had them taken down, at any rate. Here are his very words:
"An organization," he said, "to divide the losses." So, I
suppose, he thinks they are benevolent and charitable organizations. I should like to have him go to his friend the president of the Mutual Life Insurance Company in New York,
whose company has accumulations of property, real and personal, amounting to $204,000,000, and tell him that this was
an exemption secured for the purpose of enabling them to
divide the losses that came upon them in the transaction of
their business. To divide the losses! Where is that phrase
he uses? 31r. Carter said: "They carry on the business
simply to divide the losses among themselves."
Why, if the court please, the total property exempted of
these mutual companies that merely carry on their business
to divide the losses among themselves appears by the census
reports to be over $2,000,000,000!
Now, is that within the exercise of a reasonable discretion on
grounds of public policy, or is it caprice - is it arbitrariness?
I have trespassed altogether too long upon the attention of
the court. There is nothing that stands in the way of the
decision of this court which we urge. I do not mean to say
there are not individual dicta. If you try to drive a case
through dicta it is like trying to get yourself through a barbedwire fence without injury to your garments; but I say there
has been no case decided in this court that will in the least
interfere. These questions have never been weighed, have never
been considered; certainly they have never been decided.
I will say just one word before I conclude about these
municipal bonds, briefly to state the grounds on which we
say they ought to be exempted, and that is exactly the ground
on which United States bonds are exempted from a state tax.
It is because it interferes with the sovereign power and
the exercise of sovereign power by the States themselves.
What is the answer to this? My friends on the other side
say, why if you put it in a general income tax it will not be
felt. So they said about the rents, if you put them into a
general income tax it is not a tax on rents, it is not an unap-

POLLOCK v. FARMTERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

553

Opinion of the Court.

portioned tax. What possible difference in principle is there
between a tax on the bond and a tax on its income?
But I have more than trespassed upon the kind indulgence
,of the court. I have felt the responsibility of this case as I
have never felt one before and never expect to again. I do
not believe that any member of this court ever has sat or ever
will sit to hear and decide a case the consequences of which
will be so far-reaching as this - not even the venerable member who survives from the early days of the civil war, and has
sat upon every question of reconstruction, of national destiny,
of state destiny that has come up during the last thirty years.
No member of this court will live long enough to hear a case
which will involve a question of more importance than this,
the preservation of the fundamental rights of private property
and equality before the law, and the ability of the people of
these United States to rely upon the guaranties of the Constitution. If it be true, as my friend said in closing, that the passions of the people are aroused on this subject, if it be true
that a mighty army of sixty million citizens is likely to be incensed by this decision, it is the more vital to the future welfare of this country that this court again resolutely and
courageously declare, as Marshall did, that it has the power
to set aside an act of Congress violative of the Constitution,
and that it will not hesitate in executing that power, no matter what the threatened consequences of popular or populistic
wrath may be. With the deepest earnestness and confidence
we submit that all patriotic Americans must pray that our
views shall prevail. We could not magnify the scope of your
decision, whatever it may be. No mortal could rise above
"the height of this great arguinent."
3%R. CHIEF JUSTIOc

FLLIER, after stating the case as above

reported, delivered the opinion of the court:
The jurisdiction of a court of equity to prevent any threatened breach of trust in the misapplication or diversion of the
funds of a corporation by illegal payments out of its capital
or profits has been frequently sustained. Dodge v. lfoolsey,
18 How. 331 ; flawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 4:50.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

As in Dodge v. Woolsey, this bill proceeds on the ground
that the defendants would be guilty of such breach of trust or
duty in voluntarily making returns for the imposition of, and
paying, an unconstitutional tax; and also on allegations of
threatened multiplicity of suits and irreparable injury.
The objection of adequate remedy at law was not raised
below, nor is it now raised by appellees, if it could be entertained at all at this stage of the proceedings; and, so far as
it was within the power of the government to do so, the
question of jurisdiction, for the purposes of the case, was
explicitly waived on the argument. The relief sought was
in respect of voluntary action by the defendant company,
and not in respect of the assessment and collection themselves. Under these circumstances, we should not be justified
in declining to proceed to judgment upon the merits. Peltoa
v. NYational Bank, 101 U. S. 143, 148; Cuntinigs v. iVational
Bank, 101 U. S. 153, 157; 1?eynes v. Dumont, 130 U. S. 354.
Since the opinion in Marbuiy v. _Madison, 1 Cranch, 137,
177, was delivered, it has not been doubted that it is within
judicial competency, by express provisions of the Constitution or by necessary inference and implication, to determine
whether a given law of the United States is or is not made
in pursuance of the Constitution, and to hold it valid or void
accordingly. "If," said Chief Justice Marshall, "both the
law and the Constitution apply to a particular case, so that
the court must either decide that case conformably to the
law, disregarding the Constitution; or conformably to the
Constitution, disregarding the law; the court must determine
which of these conflicting rules governs the case. This is of
the very essence of judicial duty." And the Chief Justice
added that the doctrine "that courts must close their eyes on
the Constitution, and see only the law," "would subvert the
very foundation of all written constitutions." Necessarily
the power to declare a law unconstitutional is always exercised with reluctance; but the duty to do so, in a proper case,
cannot be declined, and must be discharged in accordance
with the deliberate judgment of the tribunal in which the
validity of the enactment is directly drawn in question.

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

555

Opinion of the Court.

The contention of the complainant is:
First. That the law in question, in imposing a tax on the
income or rents of real estate, imposes a tax upon the real
estate itself; and in imposing a tax on the interest or other
income of bonds or other personal property held for the
purposes of income or ordinarily yielding income, imposes a
tax upon the personal estate itself; that such tax is a direct
tax, and void because imposed without regard to the rule of
apportionment ; and that by reason thereof the whole law is
invalidated.
Second. That the law is invalid, because imposing indirect
taxes in violation of the constitutional requirement of uniformity; and therein also in violation of the implied limitation
upon taxation that all tax laws must apply equally, impartially, and uniformly to all similarly situated. Under the
second head it is contended that the rule of uniformity is
violated in that the law taxes the income of certain corporations, companies, and associations, no matter how created or
organized, at a higher rate than the incomes of individuals or
partnerships derived from precisely similar property or business; in that it exempts from the operation of the act and
from the burden of taxation, numerous corporations, companies, and associations having similar property and carrying
on similar business to those expressly taxed ; in that it denies
to individuals deriving their income from shares in certain
corporations, companies, and associations the benefit of the
exemption of $4000 granted to other persons interested in
similar property and business; in the exemption of $4000;
in the exemption of building and loan associations, savings
banks, mutual life, fire, marine, and accident insurance companies, existing solely for the pecuniary profit of their members; these and other exemptions being alleged to be purely
arbitrary and capricious, justified by no public purpose, and of
such magnitude as to invalidate the entire enactment; and in
other particulars.
Third. That the law is invalid so far as imposing a tax
upon income received from state and municipal bonds.
The Constitution provides that representatives and direct

OCTOBER TERMT, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

taxes shall be apportioned among the several States according to numbers, and that no direct tax shall be laid except
according to the enumeration provided for; and also that all
duties, imposts and excises shall be uniform throughout the
United States.
The men who framed and adopted that instrument had just
emerged from the struggle for independence whose rallying
cry had been that "taxation and representation go together."
The mother country had taught the colonists, in the contests waged to establish that taxes could not be imposed by
the sovereign except as they were granted by the representatives of the realm, that self-taxation constituted the main
security against oppression. As Burke declared, in his speech
on Conciliation with America, the defenders of the excellence
of the English constitution "took infinite pains to inculcate,
as a fundamental principle, that, in all monarchies, the people
must, in effect, themselves, mediately or immediately, possess
the power of granting their own money, or no shadow of
liberty could subsist." The principle was that the consent of
those who were expected to pay it was essential to the validity of any tax.
The States were about, for all national purposes embraced
in the Constitution, to become one, united under the same
sovereign authority, and governed by the same laws. But as
they still retained their jurisdiction over all persons and things
within their territorial limits, except where surrendered to the
general government or restrained by the Constitution, they
were careful to see to it that taxation and representation
should go together, so that the sovereignty reserved should
not be impaired, and that when Congress, and especially the
House of Representatives, where it was specifically provided
that all revenue bills must originate, voted a tax upon property, it should be with the consciousness, and under the
responsibility, that in so doing the tax so voted would proportionately fall upon the immediate constituents of those
who imposed it.
More than this, by the Constitution the States not only
gave to the Nation the concurrent power to tax persons and

POLLOCK v. FARNMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

55T

Opinion of the Court.

property directly, but they surrendered their own power to
levy taxes on imports and to regulate commerce. All the
thirteen were seaboard States, but they varied in maritime
importance, and differences existed between them in population, in wealth, in the character of property and of business
interests. Moreover, they looked forward to the coining of
new States from the great West into the vast empire of their
anticipations. So when the wealthier States as between
themselves and their less favored associates, and all as between themselves and those who were to come, gave up for
the common good the great sources of revenue derived through
commerce, they did so in reliance on the protection afforded
by restrictions on the grant of power.
Thus, in the matter of taxation, the Constitution recognizes
the two great classes of direct and indirect taxes, and lays
down two rules by which their imposition must be governed,
namely: The rule of apportionment as to direct taxes, and
the rule of uniformity as to duties, imposts -and excises.
The rule of uniformity was not prescribed to the exercise
of the power granted by the first paragraph of section eight,
to lay and collect taxes, because the rule of apportionment as
to taxes had already been laid down in the third paragraph
of the second section.
And this view was expressed by Mr. Chief Justice Chase in
The License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 469, 4,71, when he said: "It is
true that the power of Congress to tax is a very extensive power.
It is given in the Constitution, with only one exception and only
two qualifications. Congress cannot tax exports, and it must
impose direct taxes by the rule of aijportionment, and indirect
taxes by the rule of uniformity. Thus limited, and thus only,
it reaches every subject, and may be exercised at discretion."
And although there have been from time to time intimations that there might be some tax which was not a direct tax
nor included under the words "duties, imposts and excises,"
such a tax for more than one hundred Years of national existence has as yet remained undiscovered, notwithstanding the
stress of particular circumstances has invited thorough investigation into sources of revenue.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

The first question to be considered is whether a tax on the
rents or income of real estate is a direct tax within the meaning of the Constitution. Ordinarily all taxes paid primarily
by persons who can shift the burden upon some one else, or
who are under no legal compulsion to pay them, are considered indirect taxes; but a tax upon property holders in respect
of their estates, whether real or personal, or of the income
yielded by such estates, and the payment of which cannot be
avoided, are direct taxes. Nevertheless, it may be admitted
that although this definition of direct taxes is peina facie
correct, and to be applied in the consideration of the question
before us, yet that the Constitution may bear a different
meaning, and that such different meaning must be recognized.
But in arriving at any conclusion upon this point, we are at
liberty to refer to the historical circumstances attending the
framing and adoption of the Constitution as well as the entire
frame and scheme of the instrument, and the consequences
naturally attendant upon the one construction or the other.
We inquire, therefore, what, at the time the Constitution
was framed and adopted, were recognized as direct taxes?
What did. those who framed and adopted it understand the
terms to designate and include?
We must remember that the fifty-five members of the constitutional convention were men of great sagacity, fully conversant with governmental problems, deeply conscious of the
nature of their task, and profoundly convinced that they were
laying the foundations of a vast future empire. "To many
in the assembly the work of the great French magistrate on
the 'Spirit of Laws,' of which Washington with his own hand
had copied an abstract by MAadison, was the favorite manual;
some of them had made an analysis of all federal governments
in ancient and modern times, and a few were well versed in
the best English, Swiss, and Dutch writers on government.
They had immediately before them the example of Great
Britain; and they had a still better school of political wisdom in
the republican constitutions of their several States, which many
,of them had assisted to frame." 2 Bancroft's list. Const. 9.
The Federalist demonstrates the value attached by Hamilton,

POLLOCK v. FARTMERS'

LOAN & TRUST CO.

559

Opinion of the Court.

M:adison, and Tay to historical experience, and shows that they
had made a careful study of many forms of government.
IMany of the framers were particularly versed in the literature
of the period, Franklin, Wilson, and Hamilton for example.
Turgot had published in 1764 his work on taxation, and in
1766 his essay on "The Formation and Distribution of
Wealth," while Adam Smith's "Wealth of Nations" was
published in 1776. Franklin in 1766 had said upon his examination before the House of Commons that: "An external tax
is a duty laid on commodities imported; that duty is added
to the first cost and other charges on the commodity, and,
when it is offered to sale makes a part of the price. If the
people do not like it at that price, they refuse it; they are not
obliged to pay it. But an internal tax is forced from the
people without their consent, if not laid by their own representatives. The stamp act says, we shall have no commerce,
make no exchange of property with each other, neither purchase nor grant, nor recover debts; we shall neither marry
nor make our wills, unless we pay such and such sums; and
thus it is intended to extort our money from us, or ruin us by
the consequences of refusing to pay." 16 Parl. Hist. 144.
They were, of course, familiar with the modes of taxation
pursued in the several States. From the report of Oliver
Wolcott, when Secretary of the Treasury, on direct taxes, to
the House of Representatives, December 14, 1796, his most
important state paper, (Am. State Papers, 1 Finance, 431,) and
the various state laws then existing, it appears that prior
to the adoption of the Constitution nearly all the States
imposed a poll tax, taxes on land, on cattle of all kinds, and
various kinds of personal property, and that, in addition,
M,[assachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, New
Jersey, Virginia, and South Carolina assessed their citizens
upon their profits from professions, trades, and employments.
Congress under the articles of confederation had no actual
operative power of taxation. It could call upon the States
for their respective contributions or quotas as previously
determined on; but in case of the failure or omission of the
States to furnish such contribution, there were no means of

OCTOBER TEfRM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

compulsion, as Congress had no power whatever to lay any
tax upon individuals. This imperatively demanded a remedy;
but the opposition to granting the power of direct taxation
in addition to the substantially exclusive power of laying imposts and duties was so strong that it required the convention, in securing effective powers of taxation to the Federal
government, to use the utmost care and skill to so harmonize
conflicting interests that the ratification of the instrument
could, be obtained.
The situation and the result are thus described by Mr.
Chief Justice Chase in Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wall. '1,
76: "The people of the United States constitute one nation,
under one government, and this government, within the
scope of the powers with which it is invested, is supreme.
On the other hand, the people of each State compose a
State, having its own government, and endowed with all the
functions essential to separate and independent existence.
The States disunited might continue to exist. Without the
States in union there could be no such political body as the
United States. Both the States and the United States existed
before the Constitution. The people, through that instrument,
established a more perfect union by substituting a national
government, acting, with ample power, directly upon the citizens, instead of the confederate government, which acted with
powers, greatly restricted, only upon the States. But in many
articles of the Constitution the necessary existence of the
States, and, within their proper spheres, the independent
authority of the States, is distinctly recognized. To them
nearly the whole charge of interior regulation is committed
or left; to them and to the people all powers not expressly
delegated to the national government are reserved. The
general condition was well stated by Mr. Madison in the
Federalist, thus: 'The Federal and state governments are in
fact but different agents and trustees of the people, constituted with different powers and designated for different
purposes.' "Now, to the existence of the States, themselve
necessary to the existence of the United States, the power of
taxation is indispensable. It is an essential function of

POLLOCK v. FARAIERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

561

Opinion of the Court.

government. It was exercised by the colohies; and when
the colonies became States, both before and after the formation of the confederation, it was exercised by the new
governments. Under the Articles of Confederation the
government of the United States was limited in the exercise
of this power to requisitions upon the States, while the
whole power of direct and indirect taxation of persons and
property, whether by taxes on polls, or duties on imports, or
duties on internal production, manufacture, or use, was
acknowledged to belong exclusively to the States, without
any other limitation than that of non-interference with certain treaties made by Congress. The Constitution, it is true,
greatly changed this condition of things. It gave the power
to tax, both directly and indirectly, to the national government, and, subject to the one prohibition of any tax upon
exports and to the conditions of uniformity in respect to
indirect and of proportion in respect to direct taxes, the
power was given without any express reservation. On the
other hand, no power to tax exports, or imports except for a
single purpose and to an insignificant extent, or to lay any duty
on tonnage, was permitted to the States. In respect, however,
to property, business, and persons, within their respective limits,
their power of taxation remained and remains entire. It is
indeed a concurrent power, and in the case of a tax on the
same subject by both governments, the claim of the United
States, as the supreme authority, must be preferred; but
with this qualification it is absolute. The extent to which
it shall be exercised, the subjects upon which it shall be
exercised, and the mode in which it shall be exercised, are
all equally within the discretion of the legislatures to which
the States commit the exercise of the power. That discretion
is restrained only by the will of the people expressed in the
state constitutions or through elections, and by the condition
that it must not be so used as to burden or embarrass the
operations of the national government. There is nothing in
the Constitution which contemplates or authorizes any direct
abridgment of this power by national legislation. To the
extent just indicated it is as complete in the States as the like
VOL. CLVII-36

OCTOBER TER.M, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

power, within the Zirnits of the Constitution, is complete in

Congress."
On May 29, 1787, Charles Pinckney presented his draft of
a proposed constitution, which provided that the proportion of
direct taxes should be regulated by the whole number of inhabitants of every description, taken in the manner prescribed
by the legislature; and that no tax should be paid on articles
exported from the United States. 1 Elliot, 147, 148.
Mr. Randolph's plan declared "that the right of suffrage, in
the national legislature, ought to be proportioned to the quotas
of contribution, or to the number of free inhabitants, as the one
1 Elliot,
or the other may seem best, in different cases."
143.
On June 15, Mr. Paterson submitted several resolutions.
among which was one proposing that the United States in
Congress should be authorized to make requisitions in proportion to the whole number of white and other free citizens and
inhabitants, including those bound to servitude for a term of
years, and three-fifths of all other persons, except Indians not
taxed. 1 Elliot, 175, 176.
On the ninth of July the proposition that the legislature be
authorized to regulate the number of representatives according to wealth and inhabitants was approved, and on the
eleventh it was voted that "in order to ascertain the alterations that may happen in the population and wealth of the
several States, a census shall be taken;" although the resolution
of which this formed a part was defeated. 5 Elliot (Madison
Papers), 288, 295; 1 Elliot, 200.
On July 12, Gouverneur Morris moved to add to the clause
empowering the legislature to vary the representation according to the amount of wealth and number of the inhabitants, a
proviso that taxation should be in proportion to representation, and, admitting that some objections lay against his
proposition, which would be removed by limiting it to direct
taxation, since " with regard to indirect taxes on exports and
imports, and on consumption, the rule would be inapplicable."
varied his motion by inserting the word "direct," whereupon
it passed as follows: "Provided, always, that direct taxation

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

563

Opinion of the Court.

ought to be proportioned to representation."
son Papers), 302.

5 Elliot (Madi-

Amendments were proposed by Mr. Ellsworth and Mr. Wil-

son to the effect that the rule of contribution by direct taxation
should be according to the number of white inhabitants and
three-fifths of every other description, and that in order to
ascertain the alterations in the direct taxation which might be
required from time to time a census should be taken; the
word wealth was struck out of the clause, on motion of Mr.
Randolph; and the whole proposition, proportionate representation to direct taxation, and both to the white and three-fifths
of the coloredcinhabitants, and requiring a census, was adopted.
In the course of the debates, and after the motion of Mr.
Ellsworth that the first census be taken in three years after
the meeting of Congress had been adopted, Mr. Madison records: "Mr. King asked what was the precise meaning of
direct taxation. No one answered." But Mr. Gerry immediately moved to amend by the insertion of the clause that
" from the first meeting of the legislature of the United States
until a census shall be taken, all moneys for supplying the
public treasury by direct taxation shall be raised from the
several States according to the number of their representatives
respectively in the first branch.," This left for the time the
matter of collection to the States. Mr. Langdon objected that
this would bear unreasonably hard against New Hampshire,
and Mr. Martin said that direct taxation should not be used
but in cases of absolute necessity, and then the States would
be the best judges of the mode. 5 Elliot (Madison Papers),
451, 453.
Thus was accomplished one of the great compromises of the
Constitution, resting on the doctrine that the right of representation ought to be conceded to every community on which a
tax is to be imposed, but crystallizing it in such form as to allay
jealousies in respect of the future balance of power; to reconcile conflicting views in respect of the enumeration of slaves;
and to remove the objection that, in adjusting a system of
representation between the States, regard should be had to
their relative wealth, since those who were to be most heavily

OCTOBER TERMTI,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

taxed ought to have a proportionate influence in the government.
The compromise, in embracing the power of direct taxation,
consisted not simply in including part of the slaves in the
enumeration of population, but in providing that as between
State and State such taxation should be proportioned to
representation. The establishment of the same rule for the
apportionment of taxes as for regulating the proportion of
representatives, observed Mr. Madison in No. 5-of the Federalist, was by no means founded on the same principle, for as
to the former it had reference to the proportion of wealth, and
although in respect of that it was in ordinary chses a very unfit measure, it "had too recently obtained the general sanction
of America, not to have found a ready preference with the
convention," while the opposite interests of the States, balancing each other, would produce impartiality in enumeration.
By prescribing this rule, Hamilton wrote (Federalist, No. 36)
that the door was shut "to partiality or oppression," and "the
abuse of this power of taxation to have been provided against
with guarded circumspection ;" and obviously the operation of
direct taxation on every State tended to prevent resort to that
mode of supply except under pressure of necessity and to promote prudence and economy in expenditure.
We repeat that the right of the Federal government to
directly assess and collect its own taxes, at least until after
requisitions upon the States had been made and failed, was
one of the chief points of conflict, and Massachusetts, in ratifying, recommended the adoption of an amendment in these
words: " That Congress do not lay direct taxes but when the
moneys arising from the impost and excise are insufficient
for the public. exigencies, nor then until Congress shall have
first made a requisition upon the States to assess, levy, and
pay, their respective proportions of such requisition, agreeably
to the census fixed in the said Constitution, in such way and
manner as the legislatures of the States shall think best."
1 Elliot, 322. And in this South Carolina, New York, New
Hampshire, and Rhode Island concurred. Id. 325, 326, 329,
336.

POLLOOK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST 00.

565

Opinion of the Court.

Luther Martin, in his well-known communication to the
legislature of M aryland in January, 1788, expressed his views
thus: "By the power to lay and collect taxes, they may proceed to direct taxation on every individual, either by a capitation tax on their heads, or an assessment on their property.
Many of the members, and myself in the number,
thought that states were much better judges of the circumstances of their citizens, and what sum of money could
be collected from them by direct taxation, and of the manner
in which it could be raised with the greatest ease and convenience to their citizens, than the general government could
be; and that the general government ought not to have the
power of laying direct taxes in any case but in that of the
delinquency of a State." 1 Elliot, 341, 368, 369.
Ellsworth and Sherman wrote the governor of Connecticut,
September 26, 1787, that it was probable "that the principal
branch of revenue will be duties on imports. What may be
necessary to be raised by direct taxation is to be apportioned
on the several States, according to the number of their inhabitants; and although Congress may raise the money by their
own authority, if necessary, yet that authority need not be
exercised, if each State will furnish its quota." 1 Elliot, 492.
And Ellsworth, in the Connecticut convention, in discussing the power of Congress to lay taxes, pointed out that all
sources of revenue, excepting the imlost, still lay open to the
States, and insisted that it was "necessary that the power of
the general legislature should extend to all the objects of
taxation, that government should be able to command all the
resources of the country; because no man can tell what our
exigencies may be. Wars have now become rather wars of the
purse than of the sword. Government must therefore be able
to command the whole power of the purse. . . . Direct
taxation can go but little way towards raising a revenue. To
raise money in this way, people must be provident; they
must constantly be laying up money to answer the demands
of the collector. But you cannot make people thus provident.
If you would do anything to the purpose, you must come in
when they are spending, and take a part with them. . .

OCTOBER TERMI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

All nations have seen the necessity and propriety of raising
a revenue by indirect taxation, by duties upon articles of consumption. . . . In England, the whole public revenue is
about twelve millions sterling per annum. The land tax
amounts to about two millions; the window and some other
taxes, to about two millions more. The other eight millions are
raised upon articles of consumption. . .
This Constitution
defines the extent of the powers of the general government.
If the general legislature should at any time overleap their
limits, the judicial department is a constitutional check. If
the United States go beyond their powers, if they make a
law which the Constitution does not authorize, it is void;
and the judicial power, the national judges, who, to secure
their impartiality, are to be made independent, will declare
it to be void." 2 Elliot, 191, 192, 196.
In the convention of Massachusetts by which the Constitution was ratified, the second section of article I being under
consideration, Mr. King said: "It is a principle of this Constitution, that representation and taxation should go hand in
hand. . . . By this rule are representation and taxation
to be apportioned. And it was adopted, because it was the
language of all America. According to the confederation,
ratified in 1781, the sums for the general welfare and defence
should be apportioned according to the surveyed lands, and
improvements thereon, in the several States; but that it hath'
never been in the power of Congress to follow that rule, the
returns from the several States being so very imperfect." 2
Elliot, 36.
Theophilus Parsons observed: "Congress have only a concurrent right with each State, in laying direct taxes, not an
exclusive right; and the right of each State to direct taxation is equally extensive and perfect as the right of Congress."
Id. 93. And John Adams, Dawes, Sumner, King, and Sedgwick all agreed that a direct tax would be the last source of
revenue resorted to by Congress.
In the New York convention, Chancellor Livingston pointed
out that when the imposts diminished and the expenses of
the government increased, "they must have recourse to direct

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

567

Opinion of the Court.

taxes; that is, taxes on land, and specific duties." 2 Elliot,
341. And Mr. Jay, in reference to an amendment that direct
taxes should not be imposed until requisition had been made
and proved fruitless, argued that the amendment would involve great difficulties, and that it ought to be considered
that direct taxes were of two kinds, general and specific. Id.
380, 381.
In Virginia, Mr. John Marshall said: "The objects of direct
taxes are well understood; they are but few; what are they?
Lands, slaves, stock of all kinds, and a few other articles of
domestic property. . . . They will have the benefit of the
knowledge and experience of the state legislature. They will
see in what manner the legislature of Virginia collects its
taxes. . . . Cannot Congress regulate the taxes so as to
be equal on all parts of the community? Where is the absurdity of having thirteen revenues? Will they clash with, or
injure, each other? If not, why cannot Congress make thirteen distinct laws, and impose the taxes on the general objects
of taxation in each State, so as that all persons of the society
3 Elliot, 229, 235. At
shall pay equally, as they ought?"
that time, in Virginia, lands were taxed, and specific taxes
assessed on certain specified objects. These objects were
stated by Secretary Wolcott to be taxes on lands, houses in
towns, slaves, stud horses, jackasses, other horses and mules,
billiard tables, four-wheel riding carriages, phaetons, stage
wagons, and riding carriages with two wheels; and it was
undoubtedly to these objects that the future Chief Justice
referred.
Mr. Randolph said: "But in this new Constitution, there
is a more just and equitable rule fixed- a limitation beyond
which they cannot go. Representatives and taxes go hand
in hand; according to the one will the other be regulated.
The number of representatives is determined by the number of inhabitants; they have nothing to do but to lay taxes
accordingly." 3 Elliot, 121.
Mr. George Nicholas said: "the proportion of taxes is
fixed by the number of inhabitants, and not regulated by the
extent of territory, or fertility of soil. . . . Each State

OCTOBER TER.Af, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

will know, from its population, its proportion of any general
tax. As it was justly observed by the gentleman over the
way, (Mr. Randolph), they cannot possibly exceed that proportion; they are limited and restrained expressly to it. The
state legislatures have no check of this kind. Their power
is uncontrolled." 3 Elliot, 243, 244.
Mr. Madison remarked that "they will be limited to fix the
proportion of each State, and they must raise it in the most
convenient and satisfactory manner to the public." 3 Elliot,
255.
From these references, and they might be extended indefinitely, it is clear that the rule to govern each of the great
classes into which taxes were divided was prescribed in view
of the commonly accepted distinction between them and of
the taxes directly levied under the systems of the States.
And that the difference between direct and indirect taxation
was fully appreciated is supported by the congressional debates after the government was organized.
In the debates in the House of Representatives preceding
the passage of the act of Congress to lay "duties upon carriages for the conveyance of persons," approved June 5, 1794,
(1 Stat. 373, c. 45,) Mr. Sedgwick said that "a capitation tax,
and taxes on land and on property and income generally,
were direct charges, as well in the immediate as ultimate
sources of contribution. He had considered those, and those
only, as direct taxes in their operation and effects. On the
other hand, a tax imposed on a specific article of personal
property, and particularly if objects of luxury, as in the case
under consideration, he had never supposed had been considered
a direct tax, within the meaning of the Constitution."
Mr. Dexter observed that his colleague "had stated the
meaning of direct taxes to be a capitation tax, or a general
tax on all the taxable property of the citizens; and that a
gentleman from Virginia (11r. Nicholas) thought the meaning was, that all taxes are direct which are paid by the citizen
without being recompensed by the consumer; but that, where
the tax was only advanced and repaid by the consumer, the
tax was indirect. He thought that both opinions were just,

POLLOCK -v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

569

Opinion of the Court.

and not inconsistent, though the gentlemen had differed about
them. He thought that a general tax on all taxable property
was a direct tax, because it was paid without being recompensed by the consumer." Annals 3d Congress, 644, 646.
At a subsequent day of the debate, Mr. Madison objected
to the tax on carriages as "an unconstitutional tax," but
Fisher Ames declared that he had satisfied himself that it was
not a direct tax, as " the duty falls not on the possession but
on the use." Annals, 30.
Mr. Madison wrote to Jefferson on M1ay 11, 1794: "And
the tax on carriages succeeded, in spite of the Constitution,
by a majority of twenty, the advocates for the principle being
reinforced by the adversaries to luxuries." "Some of the
motives which they decoyed to their support ought to premonish them of the danger. By breaking down the barriers
of the Constitution, and giving sanction to the idea of sumptuary regulations, wealth may find a precarious defence in the
shield of justice. If luxury, as such, is to be taxed, the greatest of all luxuries, says Paine, is a great estate. Even on the
present occasion, it has been found prudent to yield to a tax
on transfers of stock in the funds and in the banks." 2 Madison's Writings, 14.
But Albert Gallatin in his "Sketch of the Finances of the
United States," published in November, 1796, said: "The most
generally received opinion, however, is, that by direct taxes in
the Constitution, those are meant which are raised on the capital
or revenue of the people; by indirect, such as are raised on
their expense. As that opinion is in itself rational, and conformable to the decision which has taken place on the subject
of the carriage tax, and as it appears important, for the sake
of preventing future controversies, which may be not more
fatal to the revenue than to the tranquility of the Union, that
a fixed interpretation should be generally adopted, it will not
be improper to corroborate it by quoting the author from
whom the idea seems to have been borrowed." He then
quotes from Smith's Wealth of Nations, and continues:
"The remarkable coincidence of the clause of the Constitution
with this passage in using the word ' capitation' as a generic

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

expression, including the different species of direct taxes, an
acceptation of the word peculiar, it is believed, to Dr. Smith,
leaves little doubt that the framers of the one had the other
in view at the time, and that they, as well as he, by direct
taxes, meant those paid directly from and falling immediately
on the revenue; and by indirect, those which are paid indirectly out of the revenue by falling immediately upon the
expense." 3 Gallatin's Writings, (Adams's ed.) 74, 75.
The act provided in its first section "that there shall be
levied, collected, and paid upon all carriages for the conveyance of persons, which shall be kept by or for any person for
his or her own use, or to be let out to hire or for the conveyance of passengers, the several duties and rates following," and
then followed a fixed yearly rate on every coach; chariot;
phaeton and coachee; every four-wheel and every two-wheel
top carriage; and upon every other two-wheel carriage; varying according to the vehicle.
In Hylton v. United States, 3 Dall. 171, decided in March,
1796, this court held the act to be constitutional, because not
laying a direct tax. Chief Justice Ellsworth and Mr. Justice
Cushing took no part in the decision, and Mr. Justice Wilson
gave no reasons.
Mr. Justice Chase said that he was inclined to think, but of
this he did not "give a judicial opinion," that "the direct
taxes contemplated by the Constitution, are only two, to wit,
a capitation, or poll tax, simply, without regard to property,
profession, or any other circumstance; and a tax on land;"
and that he doubted "whether a tax, by a general assessment
of personal property, within the United States, is included
within the term direct tax." But he thought that "an
annual tax on carriages for the conveyance of persons, may
be considered as within the power granted to Congress to
lay duties. The term duty, is the most comprehensive next
to the generical term tax; and practically in Great Britain,
(whence we take our general ideas of taxes, duties, imposts,
excises, customs, etc.,) embraces taxes on stamps, tolls for
passage, etc., and is not confined to taxes on importation
only. It seems to me, that a tax on expense is an indirect

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

571

Opinion of the Court.

tax; and I think, an annual tax on a carriage for the conveyance of persons, is of that kind; because a carriage is a
consumable commodity; and such annual tax on it, is on the
expense of the owner."
Mr. Justice Paterson said that "the Constitution declares,
that a capitation tax is a direct tax; and, both in theory and
practice, a tax on land is deemed to be a direct tax.
It is not necessary to determine, whether a tax on the product
of land be a direct or indirect tax. Perhaps, the immediate
product of land, in its original and crude state, ought to
be considered as the land itself; it makes part of it; or else
the provision made against taxing exports would be easily
eluded. Land, independently of its produce, is of no value.
Whether direct taxes, in the sense of the Constitution, comprehend any other tax than a capitation tax, and
taxes on land, is a questionabld point. . . . But as it is
not before the court, it would be improper to give any decisive
opinion upon it." And he concluded: "All taxes on expenses
or consumption are indirect taxes. A tax on carriages is of
this kind, and of course is not a direct tax." This conclusion
he fortified by reading extracts from Adam Smith on the
taxation of consumable commodities.
Mr. Justice Iredell said: "There is no necessity, or propriety, in determining what is or is not, a direct, or indirect,
tax in all cases. Some difficulties may occur which we do
not at present foresee. Perhaps a direct tax, in the sense of
the Constitution, can mean nothing but a tax on something inseparably annexed to the soil; something capable of apportionment under all such circumstances. A land or a poll tax may
be considered of this description. . . . In regard to other
articles, there may possibly be considerable doubt. It is sufficient, on the present occasion, for the court to be satisfied,
that this is not a direct tax contemplated by the Constitution,
in order to affirm the present judgment."
It will be perceived that each of the justices, while suggesting doubt whether anything but a capitation or a land tax
was a direct tax within the meaning of the Constitution, distinctly avoided expressing an opinion upon that question or-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

laying down a comprehensive definition, but confined his
opinion to the case before the court.
The general line of observation was obviously influenced
by Mr. Hamilton's brief for the government, in which he
said: "The following are presumed to be the only direct
taxes: Capitation or poll taxes, taxes on lands and buildings,
general assessments, whether on the whole property of individuals, or on their whole real or personal estate. All else
must of necessity be considered as indirect taxes." 7 1Hamilton's Works, (Lodge's ed.) 332.
M[r. Hamilton also argued: "If the meaning of the word
'excise' is to be sought in a British statute, it will be found
to include the duty on carriages, which is there considered as
an ' excise.' .
.
An argument results from this, though
not perhaps a conclusive one, yet, where so important a distinction in the Constitution is to be realized, it is fair to seek
the meaning of terms in the statutory language of that
country from which our jurisprudence is derived." Id. 333.
If the question had related to an income tax, the reference
would have been fatal, as such taxes have been always classed
by the law of Great Britain as direct taxes.
The above act was to be enforced for two years, but before
it expired was repealed as was the similar act of May 28, 1796,
c. 37, which expired August 31, 1801, 1 Stat. 478, 482.
By the act of July 14, 1798, when a war with France was
supposed to be impending, a direct tax of two millions of dollars was apportioned to the States respectively, in the manner prescribed, which tax was to be collected by officers of
the United States and assessed upon "dwelling houses, lands,
and slaves," according to the valuations and enumerations to
be made pursuant to the act of July 9, 1798, entitled "An
act to provide for the valuation of lands and dwelling houses
and the enumeration of slaves within the United States." 1
Stat. 597, c. 75; Id. 580, c. 70. Under these acts every dwelling house was assessed according to a prescribed value, and
the sum of fifty cents upon every slave enumerated, and the
residue of the sum apportioned was directed to be assessed
upon the lands within each State according to the valuation

POLLOCK v. FARMERS'

LOAN & TRUST CO.

573

Opinion of the Court.

made pursuant to the prior act and at such rate per centum
as would be sufficient to produce said remainder. By the act
of August 2, 1813, a direct tax of three millions of dollars
was laid and apportioned to the States respectively, and reference had to the prior act of July 22, 1813, which provided
that whenever a direct tax should be laid by the authority of
the United States the same should be assessed and laid "on
the value of all lands, lots of ground with their improvements,
dwelling houses, and slaves, which several articles subject to
taxation shall be enumerated and valued by the respective
assessors at the rate each of them is worth in money."
3 Stat. 53, c. 37; Id. 22, c. 16. The act of January 9, 1815,
laid a direct tax of six millions of dollars, which was apportioned, assessed, and laid as in the prior act on all lands, lots
of grounds with their improvements, dwelling houses, and
slaves. These acts are attributable to the war of 1812.
The act of August 5, 1861, (12 Stat. 292, 294, c. 45,) imposed a
tax of twenty millions of dollars, which was apportioned and
to be levied wholly on real estate, and also levied taxes on incomes whether derived from property or profession, trade or
vocation, (12 Stat. 309,) and this was followed by the acts of
July 1, 1862, (12 Stat. 432, 473, c. 119 ;) March 3, 1863, (12
Stat. 713, 723, c. 74; ) June 30, 1864, (13 Stat. 223, 281, c. 173 ;)
March 3, 1865, (13 Stat. 469, 479, c. 78;) March 10, 1866, (14
Stat. 4, c. 15;) July 13, 1866, (14 Stat. 98, 137, c. 184 ;) arch
2, 1867, (14 Stat. 471, 477, c. 169;) and July 14, 1870, (16
Stat. 256, c. 255). The differences between the latter acts and
that of August 15, 1894, call for no remark in this connection. These acts grew out of the war of the rebellion, and
were, to use the language of Mr. Justice Miller, "part of
the system of taxing incomes, earnings, and profits adopted
during the late war, and abandoned as soon after that war
was ended as it could be done safely." Railroad Company
v. Collector, 100 U. S. 595, 598.
From the foregoing it is apparent: 1. That the distinction
between direct and indirect taxation was well understood by
the framers of the Constitution and those who adopted it.
2. That under the state systems of taxation all taxes on

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

real estate or personal property or the rents or income thereof
were regarded as direct taxes. 3. That the rules of apportionment and of uniformity were adopted in view of that
distinction and those systems. 4. That whether the tax on
carriages was direct or indirect was disputed, but the tax was
sustained as a tax on the use and an excise. 5. That the original expectation was that the power of direct taxation would
be exercised only in extraordinary exigencies, and down to
August 15, 1894, this expectation has been realized. The act
of that date was passed in a time of profound peace, and if we
assume that no special exigency called for unusual legislation,
and that resort to this mode of taxation is to become an ordinary and usual means of supply, that fact furnishes an additional
reason for circumspection and care in disposing of the case.
We proceed then to examine certain decisions of this court
under the acts of 1861 and following years, in which it is
claimed that this court has heretofore adjudicated that taxes
like those under consideration are not direct taxes and subject
to the rule of apportionment, and that we are bound to accept
the rulings thus asserted to have been made as conclusive
in the premises. Is this contention well founded as respects
the question now under examination? Doubtless the doctrine
of sta'e decisis is a salutary one, and to be adhered to on all
proper occasions, but it only arises in respect of decisions
directly upon the points in issue.
The language of Chief Justice Marshall, in Co/ens v. Yi,ginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 399, may profitably again be quoted:
"It is a maxim not to be disregarded, that general expressions,
in every opinion, are to be taken in connection with the case
in which those expressions are used. If they go beyond the
case, they may be respected, but ought not to control the
judgment in a subsequent suit when the very point is presented for decision. The reason of this maxim is obvious.
The question actually before the court is investigated with
care, and considered in its full extent. Other principles which
may serve to illustrate it, are considered in their relation to the
case decided, but their possible bearing on all other cases is
seldom completely investigated."

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

575

Opinion of the Court.

So in Carroll v. Lessee of Carroll, 16 How. 275, 286, whern
a statute of the State of Mlaryland came under review, Mr
Justice Curtis said: "If the construction put by the court ol
a State upon one of its statutes was not a matter in judgment,
if it might have been decided either way without affecting
any right brought into question, then, according to the princi.
ples of the common law, an opinion on such a question is not
a decision. To make it so, there must have been an application of the judicial mind to the precise question necessary to
be determined to fix the rights of the parties and decide to
whom the property in contestation belongs. And therefore
this court, and other courts organized under the common law,
has never held itself bound by any part of an opinion, in any
case, which was not needful to the ascertainment of the right
or title in question between the parties."
iNor is the language of Mr. Chief Justice Taney inapposite,
as expressed in The Genesee Chief, 12 I-low. 443, 455, wherein
it was held that the lakes and navigable waters connecting
them are within the scope of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction as known and understood in the United States when the
Constitution was adopted, and the preceding case of Ihe
Thomas Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 428, was overruled. The Chief
Justice said: "It was under the influence of these precedents
and this usage, that the case of Thie Thomas Jefferson, 10
Wheat. 4928, was decided in this court; and the jurisdiction of
the courts of admiralty of the United States declared to be
limited to the ebb and flow of the tide. The Steamboat Orleans v. Phoebus, 11 Pet. 175, afterwards followed this case,
merely as a point decided. It is the decision in the case of
Thte Thomas Jeferson which mainly embarrasses the court in
the present inquiry. We are sensible of the great weight to
which it is entitled. But at the same time we are convinced
that, if we follow it, we follow an erroneous decision into
which the court, fell, when the great importance of the question as it now presents itself could not be foreseen; and the
subject did not therefore receive that deliberate consideration
which at this time would have been given to it by the eminent men who presided here when that case was decided.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

For the decision was made in 1825, when the commerce on
the rivers of the West and on the Lakes was in its infancy,
and of little importance, and but little regarded compared
with that of the present day. Moreover, the nature of the
questioxfs concerning the extent of the admiralty jurisdiction,
which have arisen in this court, were not calculated to call its
attention particularly to the one we are now considering."
Manifestly, as this court is clothed with the power, and
entrusted with the duty, to maintain the fundamental law of
the Constitution, the discharge of that duty requires it not to
extend any decision upon a constitutional question if it is convinced that error in principle might supervene.
Let us examine the cases referred to in the light of these
observations.
In Pacific Insurance Co. v. Soule, 7 Wall. 433, the validity
of a tax which was described as "upon the business of an
insurance company" was sustained on the ground that it was
"a duty or excise," and came within the decision in Hylton's
case. The arguments for the insurance company were elaborate and took a wide range, but the decision rested on narrow
ground, and turned on the distinction between an excise duty
and a tax strictly so termed, regarding the former a charge
for a privilege, or on the transaction of business, without any
necessary reference to the amount of property belonging to
those on whom the charge might fall, although it might be
increased or diminished by the extent to which the privilege
was exercised or the business done. This was in accordance
with Societyfor Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594; Provident institution v. Jfassaclusetts, 6 Wall. 611; and -Hamilton Com.pany v. Jfassachusetts, 6 Wall. 632; in which cases there was
a difference of opinion on the question whether the tax
under consideration was a tax on the property and not upon
the franchise or privilege. And see Van .AIlen v. The Assessors, 3 Wall. 573; h[ome Insirance Co. v: 17ew York, 134
U. S. 594; Pullman Co. v. Pennsylvania,141 U. S. 18.
In Veazie Bank v. ]Benno, 8 Wall. 533, 544, 546, a tax was
laid on the circulation of state banks or national banks paying out the notes of individuals or state banks, and it was

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

577

Opinion of the Court.

held that it might well be classed under the head of duties,
and as falling within the same category as Soule's case,
8 Wall. 547. It was declared to be of the same nature as
excise taxation on freight receipts, bills of lading, and passenger tickets issued by a railroad company. Referring to
the discussions in the convention which framed the Constitution, Mr. Chief Justice Chase observed that what was said
there "doubtless shows uncertainty as to the true meaning
of the term direct tax; but it indicates also an understanding
that direct taxes were such as may be levied by capitation,
and on lands and appurtenances; or, perhaps, by valuation
and assessment of personal property upon general lists. For
these were the subjects from which the States at that time
usually raised their principal supplies." And in respect of
the opinions in Hylton's case, the Chief Justice said: "It
may further be taken as established upon the testimony of
Paterson, that the words direct taxes, as used in the Constitution, comprehended only capitation taxes and taxes on
land, and perhaps taxes on personal property by general
valuation and assessment of the various descriptions possessed within the several States."
In National Bank v. United States, 101 U. S. 1, involving
the constitutionality of  3413 of the Revised Statutes, enacting that "every national banking association, state bank, or
banker, or association, shall pay a tax of ten per centum on
the amount of notes of any town, city, or municipal corporation, paid out by them," Veazie Bank v. Fenno was cited
with approval to the point that Congress, having undertaken
to provide a currency for the whole country, might, to secure
the benefit of it to the people, restrain, by suitable enactments,
the circulation as money of any notes not issued under its
authority; and Mr. Chief Justice Waite, speaking for the
court, said: "The tax thus laid is not on the obligation, but
on its use in a particular way."
Sckoley v. Rew, 23 Wall. 331, was the case of a succession
tax which the court held to be "plainly an excise tax or duty"
upon the devolution of the estate or the right to become
beneficially entitled to the same, or the income thereof, in
VOL. cxii-37

OCTOBER TERI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

possession or expectancy."

It was like the succession tax of

a State, held constitutional in -lager v. Grina, 8 How. 490;
and the distinction between the power of a State and the
power of the United States to regulate the succession of property was not referred to, and does not appear to have been
in the mind of the court. The opinion stated that the act of
Parliament, from which the particular provision under consideration was borrowed, had received substantially the same
construction, and cases under that act hold that a succession
duty is not a tax upon income or upon property, but on the
actual benefit derived by the individual, determined as prescribed. In ive lwes, 3 H1. & N. 719; Attorney-General v.
Sefton, 2 1. & 0. 362; S. C. (H. L.) 3 H. & C. 1023; 11 1
L. Cas. 257.
In Railroad Company v. Collector, 100 U. S. 595, 596, the
validity of a tax collected of a corporation upon the interest
paid by it upon its bonds was held to be "essentially an excise
on the business of the class of corporations mentioned in the
statute." And Mr. Justice Miller, in delivering the opinion,
said: "As the sum involved in this suit is small, and the law
under which the tax in question was collected has long since
been repealed, the case is of little consequence as regards any
principle involved in it as a rule of future action."
All these cases are distinguishable from that in hand, and
this brings us to consider that of Springer v. United States,
102 U. S. 586, 602, chiefly relied on and urged upon us as
decisive.
That was an action of ejectment brought on a tax deed
issued to the United States on sale of defendant's real estate
for income taxes. The defendant contended that the deed
was void because the tax was a direct tax, not levied in accordance with the Constitution. Unless the tax were wholly
invalid, the defence failed.
The statement of the case in the report shows that Springer
returned a certain amount as his net income for the particular
year, but does not give the details of what his income, gains,
and profits consisted in.
The original record discloses that the income was not

POLLOCK v. FAR-MERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

579

Opinion of the Court.

derived in any degree from real estate but was in part professional as attorney-at-law and the rest interest on United States
bonds. It would seem probable that the court did not feel
called upon to advert to the distinction between the latter and
the former source of income, as the validity of the tax as to
either would sustain the action.
The opinion thus concludes: " Our conclusions are, that
direct taxes, within the meaning of the Constitution, are only
capitation taxes, as expressed in that instrument, and taxes on
real estate; and that the tax of which the plaintiff in error
complains is within the category of an excise or duty."
While this language is broad enough to cover the interest
as well as the professional earnings, the case would have been
more significant as a precedent if the distinction had been
brought out in the report and commented on in arriving at
judgment, for a tax on professional receipts might be treated
as an excise or duty, and therefore indirect, when a tax on
the income of personalty might be held to be direct.
Be this as it may, it is conceded in all these cases, from that
of Hylton to that of Springer, that taxes on land are direct
taxes, and in none of them is it determined that taxes on
rents or income derived from land are not taxes on iand.
We admit that it may not unreasonably be said that logically, if taxes on the rents, issues and profits of real estate are
equivalent to taxes on real estate, and are therefore direct
taxes, taxes on the income of personal property as such are
equivalent to taxes on such property, and therefore direct
taxes. But we are considering the rule stare decisis, and we
must decline to hold ourselves bound to extend the scope of
decisions- none of which discussed the question whether a
tax on the income from personalty is equivalent to a tax on
that personalty, but all of which held real estate liable to
direct taxation only -so as to sustain a tax on the income of
realty on the ground of being an excise or duty.
As no capitation, or other direct, tax was to be laid otherwise than in proportion to the population, some other direct
tax than a capitation tax (and it might well enough be argued
some other tax of the same kind as a capitation tax) must be

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

referted to, and it has always been considered that a tax upon
real estate eo nomine or upon its owners in respect thereof is
a direct tax within the meaning of the Constitution. But is
there any distinction between the real estate itself or its
owners in respect of it and the rents or income of the real
estate coming to the owners as the natural and ordinary
incident of their ownership?
If the Constitution had provided that Congress should not
levy any tax upon the real estate of any citizen of any State,
could it be contended that Congress could put an annual tax
for five or any other number of years upon the rent or
income of the real estate? And if, as the Constitution now
reads, no unapportioned tax can be imposed upon real estate,
can Congress without apportionment nevertheless impose taxes
upon such real estate under the guise of an annual tax upon
its rents or income?
As according to the feudal law, the whole beneficial interest
in the land consisted in the right to take the rents and profits,
the general rule has always been, in the language of Coke,
that "if a man seized of land in fee by his deed granteth to
another the profits of those lands, to have and to hold to him
and his heirs, and maketh livery secundum forman chatle,
the whole land itself doth pass. For what is the land but
the profits thereof?" Co. Lit. 45. And that a devise of the
rents and profits or of the income of lands passes the land
itself both at law and in equity. 1 Jarm. on Wills, (5th ed.,)
*798 and cases cited.
The requirement of the Constitution is that no direct tax
shall be laid otherwise than by apportionment -the prohibition is not against direct taxes on land, from which the
implication is sought to be drawn that indirect taxes on land
would be constitutional, but it is against all direct taxesand it is admitted that a tax on real estate is a direct tax.
Unless, therefore, a tax upon rents or income issuing out of
lands is intrinsically so different from a tax on the land itself
that it belongs to a wholly different class of taxes, such taxes
must be regarded as falling within the same category as a tax
on real estate eo nomine. The name of the tax is unimpor-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

581

Opinion of the Court.

tant. The real question is, is there any basis upon which to
rest the contention that real estate belongs to one of the two
great classes of taxes, and the rent or income which is the
incident of its ownership belongs to the other?. We are
unable to perceive any ground for the alleged distinction.
An annual tax upon the annual value or annual user of real
estate appears to us the same in substance as an annual tax on
the real estate, which would be paid out of the rent or income.
This law taxes the income received from land and the growth
or produce of the land. Mr. Justice Paterson observed in
Hylton's case, "land, independently of its produce, is of no
value;" and certainly had no thought that direct taxes were
confined to unproductive land.
If it be true that by varying the form the substance may
be changed, it is not easy to see that anything would remain
of the limitations of the Constitution, or of the rule of taxation and representation, so carefully recognized and guarded
in favor of the citizens of each State. But constitutional
provisions cannot be thus evaded. It is the substance and
not the form which controls, as has indeed been established
by repeated decisions of this court. Thus in Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 444, it was held that the tax on the
occupation of an importer was the same as a tax on imports
and therefore void. And Chief Justice Marshall said: "It is
impossible to conceal from ourselves, that this is varying the
form, without varying the substance. It is treating a prohibition which i general, as if it were confined to a particular mode of doing the forbidden thing. All must perceive,
that a tax on the sale of an article, imported only for sale, is
a tax on the article itself."
In W~eston v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, it was held that a tax
on the income of United States securities was a tax on the
securities themselves, and equally inadmissible. The ordinance of the city of Charleston involved in that case was
exceedingly obscure; but the opinions of Mr. Justice Thompson and Mr. Justice Johnson, who dissented, make it clear that
the levy was upon the interest of the bonds and not upon
the bonds, and they held that it was an income tax, and as

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

such sustainable; but the' majority of the court, Chief Justice
Mlarshall delivering the opinion, overruled that contention.
So in .Dobbins v. Oommissioner's, 16 Pet. 435, it was decided
that the income from an official position could not be taxed if
the office itself was exempt.
In Almy v. California, 24 How. 169, it was held that a
duty on a bill of lading was the same thing as a duty on the
article which it represented; in Railroad Co. v. Jackson, 7
Wall. 262, that a tax upon the interest payable on bonds was
a tax not upon the debtor, but upon the security; and in
Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566, that a tax upon the
amount of sales of goods made by an auctioneer was a tax
upon the goods sold.
In PhiladelphiaSteamship Co. v. Pennmylvania, 122 U. S.
326, and Lelo2T v. .Mobile, 127 U.. S. 640, it was held that a
tax on income received from interstate commerce was a tax
upon the commerce itself, and therefore unauthorized. And
so, although it is thoroughly settled that where by way of
duties laid on the transportation of the subjects of interstate
commerce, and on the receipts derived therefrom, or on the
occupation or business of carrying it on, a tax is levied by a
State on interstate commerce, such taxation amounts to a
regulation of such commerce, and cannot be sustained, yet
the property in a State belonging to a corporation, whether
foreign or domestic, engaged in foreign or domestic commerce, may be taxed, and when the tax is substantially a
mere tax on property and not one imposed- on the privilege
of doing interstate commerce, the exaction may be sustained.
"The substance, and not the shadow, determines the validity
of the exercise of the power." Postal Telegraph Co. v. Adtams,
155 U. S.688, 698.
Nothing can be clearer than that what the Constitution
intended to guard against was the exercise by the general
government of the power of directly taxing persons and property within any State through a majority made up from the
other States. It is true that the effect of requiring direct taxes
to be apportioned among the States in proportion to their population is necessarily that the amount of taxes on the individual

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

583

Opinion of the Court.

taxpayer in a State having the taxable subject-matter to a
larger extent in proportion to its population than another State
has, would be less than in such other State, but this inequality
must be held to have been contemplated, and was manifestly
designed to operate to restrain the exercise of the power of
direct taxation to extraordinary emergencies, and to prevent an
attack upon accumulated property by mere force of numbers.
It is not doubted that property owners ought to contribute
in just measure to the expenses of the government. As to the
States and their municipalities, this is reached largely through
the imposition of direct taxes. As to the Federal government,
it is attained in part through excises and indirect taxes upon
luxuries and consumption generally, to which direct taxation
may be added to the extent the rule of apportionment allows.
And through one mode or the other, the entire wealth of the
country, real and personal, may be made, as it should be, to
contribute to the common defence and general welfare.
But the acceptance of the rule of apportionment was one of
the compromises which made the adoption of the Constitution
possible, and secured the creation of that dual form of government, so elastic and so strong, which has thus far survived in
unabated vigor. If, by calling a tax indirect when it is essentially direct, the rule of protection could be frittered away,
one of the great landmarks defining the boundary between the
Nation and the States of which it is composed, would have
disappeared, and with it one of the bulwarks of private rights
and private property.
We are of opinion that the law in question, so far as it levies a tax on the rents or income of real estate, is in violation
of the Constitution, and is invalid.
Another question is directly presented by the record as to the
validity of the tax levied by the act upon the income derived
from municipal bonds. The averment in the bill is that the
defendant company owns two millions of the municipal bonds
of the city of New York, from which it derives an annual income of $60,000, and that the directors of the company intend
to return and pay the taxes on the income so derived.
The Constitution contemplates the independent exercise by

OCTOBER, TERM7, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the Nation and the State, severally, of their cofstitutional
powers.
As the States cannot tax the powers, the operations, or the
property of the United States, nor the means which they employ to carry their powers into execution, so it has been held
that the United States have no power under the Constitution
to tax either the instrumentalities or the property of a State.
A municipal corporation is the representative of the State
and one of the instrumentalities of the state government. It
was long ago determined that the property and revenues of
municipal corporations are not subjects of Federal taxation.
Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, 124; United States v. Railroad
Co7npany, 17 Wall. 322, 332. In Collector v. Day, it was adjudged that Congress had no power, even by an act taxing all
incomes, to levy a tax upon the salaries of judicial officers of
a State, for reasons similar to those on which it had been held
in Dobbins v. Commissioners, 16 Pet. 435, that a State could
not tax the salaries of officers of the United States. Mr. Justice Nelson, in delivering judgment, said: "The general government, and the States, although both exist within the same
territorial limits, are separate and distinct sovereignties, acting
separately and independently of each other, within their respective spheres. The former in its appropriate sphere is supreme;
but the States within the limits of their powers not granted,
or, in the language of the tenth amendment, -reserved,' are as
independent of the general government as that government
within its sphere is independent of the States."
This is quoted in Van Brock]lin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S.151,
178, and the opinion continues: "Applying the same principles,
this court, in United States v. Railroad Company, 17 Wall.
322, held that a municipal corporation within a State could
not be taxed by the United States on the dividends or interest
of stock or bonds held by it in a railroad or canal company,
because the municipal corporation was a representative of the
State, created by the State to exercise a limited portion of its
powers of government, and therefore its revenues, like those
of the State itself, were not taxable by the United States.
The revenues thus adjudged to be exempt from Federal taxa-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.
Opinion of the

585

Court.

tion were not themselves appropriated to any specific public
use, nor derived from property held by the State or by the
municipal corporation for any specific public use, but were
part of the general income of that corporation, held for the
public use in no other sense than all property and income,
belonging to it in its municipal character, must be so held.
The reasons for exempting all the property and income of a
State, or of a municipal corporation, which is a political division
of the State, from Federal taxation, equally require the exemption of all the property and income of the national government from state taxation."
In -Mercantile Bank v. ANew York, 121 U. S. 138, 162, this
court said: "Bonds issued by the State of New York, or
under its authority by its public municipal bodies, are means
for carrying on the work of the government, and are not
taxable even by the United States, and it is not a part of the
policy of the government which issues them to subject them
to taxation for its own purposes."
The question in Bonapa'te v. Tax Coutrt, 104 U. S.592, was
whether the registered public debt of one State, exempt from
taxation by that State or actually taxed there, was taxable
by another State when owned by a citizen of the latter, and
it was held that there was no provision of the Constitution of
the United States which prohibited such taxation. The States
had not covenanted that this could not be done, whereas,
under the fundamental law, as to the power to borrow money,
neither the United States on the one hand, nor the States on
the other, can interfere with that power as possessed by each
and an essential element of the sovereignty of each.
The law under consideration provides "that nothing herein
contained shall apply to States, counties or municipalities."
It is contended that although the property or revenues of the
States or their instrumentalities cannot be taxed, nevertheless the income derived from state, county, and municipal
securities can -be taxed. But we think the same want of
power to tax the property or revenues of the States or their
instrumentalities exists in relation to a tax on the income
from their securities, and for the same reason, and that reason

OCTOBER TERAT,

1894.

Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

is given by Chief Justice Marshall in Weston, v. Charleston,
2 Pet. 449, 468, where he said: "The right to tax the contract
to any extent, when made, must operate upon the power to
borrow before it is exercised, and have a sensible influence on
the contract. The extent of this influence, depends on the
will of a distinct government. To any extent, however inconsiderable, it is a burthen on the operations of government.
It may be carried to an extent which shall arrest them
entirely.

.

.

The tax on government stock is thought

by this court to be a tax on the contract, a tax on the power
to borrow money on the credit of the United States, and consequently to be repugnant to the Constitution." Applying
this language to these municipal securities, it is obvious that
taxation on the interest therefrom would operate on the power
to borrow before it is exercised, and would have a sensible
influence on the contract, and that the tax in question is a
tax on the power of the States and their instrumentalities to
borrow money, and consequently repugnant to the Constitution.
Upon each of the other questions argued at the bar, to wit,
1, Whether the void provisions as to rents and income from
real estate invalidated the whole act? 2, Whether as to the
income from personal property as such, the act is unconstitutional as laying direct taxes ? 3, Whether any part of the
tax, if not considered as a direct tax, is invalid for want of
uniformity on either of the grounds suggested ?- the justices
who heard the argument are equally divided, and, therefore,
no opinion is expressed.
The 'esult is that the decree of the Circuit Court is 'eversed
and the cause 'emanded with directions to enter a decree
in favor of the complainant in 'espect only of the voluntary payment of the tax on the rents and income of the
real estate of the defendant company, and of that which
it holds in trust, and on the income from the nzmnicipal
bonds owned or so held by it.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD.
I also desire to place my opinion on record upon some of
the important questions discussed in relation to the direct and

indirect taxes proposed by the income tax law of 1894.

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST 00.

587

Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

Several suits have been instituted in state and Federal
courts, both at law and in equity, to test the validity of the
provisions of the law, the determination of which will necessitate careful and extended consideration.
The subject of taxation in the new government which was
to be established created great interest in the convention
which framed the Constitution, and was the cause of much
difference of opinion among its members and earnest contention between the States. The great source of weakness of
the confederation was its inability to levy taxes of any kind
for the support of its government. To raise revenue it was
obliged to make requisitions upon the States, which were
respected or disregarded at their pleasure. Great embarrassments followed the consequent inability to obtain the necessary funds to carry on the government. One of the principal
objects of the proposed new government was to obviate this
defect of the confederacy by conferring authority upon the
new government by which taxes could be directly laid whenever desired. Great difficulty in accomplishing this object
was found to exist. The States bordering on the ocean were
unwilling to give up their right to lay duties upon imports
which were their chief source of revenue. The other States,
on the other hand, were unwilling to make any agreement
for the levying of taxes directly upon real and personal property, the smaller States fearing that they would be overborne
by unequal burdens forced upon them by the action of the
larger States. In this condition of things great embarrassment was felt by the members of the convention. It was
feared at times that the effort to form a new government
would fail. But happily a compromise was effected by an
agreement that direct taxes should be laid by Congress by
acpportioringthem among the States according to their representation. In return for this concession by some of the States,
the other States bordering on navigable waters consented to
relinquish to the new government the control of duties,
imposts, and excises, and the regulation of commerce, with
the condition that the duties, imposts, and excises should be
utniform throughout the United States. So that, on the one

OCTOBER TERIMI, 1894.
Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

hand, anything like oppression or undue advantage of any
one State over the others would be prevented by the apportionment of the direct taxes among the States according to
their representation, and, on the other hand, anything like
oppression or hardship in the levying of duties, imposts, and
excises would be avoided by the provision that they should
be uniform throughout the United States. This compromise
was essential to the continued union and harmony of the
States. It protected every State from being controlled in
its taxation by the superior numbers of one or more other
States.
The Constitution accordingly, when completed, divided the
taxes which might be levied under the authority of Congress
into those which were direct and those which were indirect.
Direct taxes, in a general and large sense, may be described
as taxes derived immediately from the person, or from real or
personal property, without any recourse therefrom to other
sources for reimbursement. In a more restricted sense, they
have sometimes been confined to taxes on real property, including the rents and income derived therefrom. Such taxes
are conceded to be direct taxes, however taxes on other property are designated, and they are to be apportioned among
the States of the Union according to their respective numbers.
The second section of article I of the Constitution declares
that representatives and direct taxes shall be thus apportioned.
It had been a favorite doctrine in England and in the colonies,
before the adoption of the Constitution, that taxation and
representation should go together. The Constitution prescribes such apportionment among the several States according
to their respective numbers, to be determined by adding to the
whole number of free persons, including those bound to service for a term of years, and excluding Indians not taxed,
three-fifths of all other persons.
Some decisions of this court have qualified or thrown doubts
upon the exact meaning of the words "direct taxes." Thus
in Sp)ringer v. UnitecZ States, 102 U. S. 586, it was held that a
tax upon gains, profits, and income was an excise or duty and
not a direct tax within the meaning of the Constitution, and

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

589

Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

that its imposition was not therefore unconstitutional. And
in Pacific Insurance Co. v. Soule, 7 Wall. 433, it was held
that an income tax or duty upon the amounts insured, renewed
or continued by insurance companies, upon the gross amounts
of premiums received by them and upon assessments made by
them, and upon dividends and undistributed sums, was not a
direct tax but a duty or excise.
In the discussions on the subject of direct taxes in the British Parliament an income tax has been generally designated
as a direct tax, differing in that respect from the decision of
this court in Sj)ringer v. United States. But whether the
latter can be accepted as correct or otherwise, it does not affect
the tax upon real property and its rents and income as a direct
tax. Such a tax is by universal consent recognized to be a
direct tax.
As stated, the rents and income of real property are included
in the designation of direct taxes as part of the real property.
Such has been the law in England for centuries, and in this
country from the early settlement of the colonies; and it is
strange that any member of the legal profession should, at
this day, question a doctrine which has always been thus accepted by common-law lawyers. It is so declared in approved
treatises upon real property and in accepted authorities on
particular branches of real estate law, and has been so announced in decisions in the English courts and our own courts
without number. Thus, in Washburn on Real Property, it
is said that "a devise of the rents and profits of land, or the
income of land, is equivalent to a devise of the land itself, and
will be for life or in fee, according to the limitation expressed
in the devise." Vol. 2, p. 695,  30.
In Jarman on Wills, Vol. 1, page 710, it is laid down that
"a devise of the rents and profits or of the income of land
passes the land itself both at law and in equity; a rule, it is
said, founded on the feudal law, according to which the whole
beneficial interest in the land consisted in the right to take the
rents and profits. And since the act 1 Vict. c. 26, such a devise carries the fee simple; but before that act it carried no
more than an estate for life unless words of inheritance were

OCTO]BER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

added."

Mr. Jarman cites numerous authorities in support of

his statement. Southt v. Alleine, 1 Salk. 228; Doe d. Goldin
v. Lakeman, 2 B. & Ad. 30, 42; Johnson v. Arnold, 1 Yes.
Sen. 171; Baines v. Dixon, 1 Ves. Sen. 42; I11annox v.
Greener, L. R. 14 Eq. 456; Blcnn v. Bell, 2 De G., M. & G.
781 ; Plenty v. Mest, 6 C. B. 201.
Coke upon Littleton says: "If a man seised of lands in fee
by his deed granteth to another the profit of those lands, to
have and to hold to him and his heires, and maketh livery
seeunduimformaram cartae,the whole land itselfe, doth passe;
for what is the land but the profits thereof'?" Lib. 1, cap. 1,

1, p. 4b.
In Doe d. Goldin v. Lakeman, Lord Tenterden, Chief
Justice of the Court of King's Bench, to the same effect said:
"It is an established rule that a devise of the rents and profits
is a devise of the land." And in oohnson v. A'nold, Lord
Chancellor Hardwicke reiterated the doctrine that a "devise
of the profits of lands is a devise of the lands themselves."
The same rule is announced in this country; the Court of
Errors of New York in Paterson v. Ellis, 11 Wend. 259, 298,
holding that the "devise of the interest or of the rents and
profits is a devise of the thing itself, out of which that interest or those rents and profits may issue;" and the Supreme
Court of Massachusetts, in Reed v. Reed, 9 Mass. 3729, 374,
that "a devise of the income of lands is the same in its effect
as a devise of the lands." The same view of the law was
expressed in Anderson v. Greble, I Ashmead (enn.) 136, 138,
King, the president of the court, stating: "I take it to be
a well-settled rule of law, that by a devise of the rent, profits,
and income of land, the land itself passes." Similar adjudications might be repeated almost indefinitely. One may have
the reports of the English courts examined for several centuries without finding a single decision or even a dictum of
their judges in conflict with them. And what answer do we
receive to these adjudications? Those rejecting them furnish
no proof that the framers of the Constitution did not follow
them, as the great body of the people of the country then did.
An incident which occurred in this court and room twenty

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

591

Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

years ago, may have become a precedent. To a powerful
argument then being made by a distinguished counsel, on a
public question, one of the judges exclaimed that there was a
conclusive answer to his position and that was that the court
was of a different opinion. Those who decline to recognize
the adjudications cited may likewise consider that they have
a conclusive answer to them in the fact that they also are of
a different opinion. I do not think so. The law as expounded
for centuries cannot be set aside or disregarded because some
of the judges are now of a different opinion from those who,
a century ago, followed it in framing our Constitution.
Hamilton, speaking on the subject, asks: "What, in fact,
is property but a fiction, without the beneficial use of it ?"
And adds: "In many cases, indeed, the income or annuity
is the property itself." 3 Hamilton's Works, Putnam's ed. 34.
It must be conceded that whatever affects any element
that gives an article its value, in the eye of the law affects the
article itself.
In Brown v. _ffaryZand, 12 Wheat. 419,444, it was held that
a tax on the occupation of an importer is the same as a
tax on his imports, and as such was invalid. It was contended that the State might tax occupations and that this
was nothing more, but the court said, by Chief Justice
Marshall (p. 444): "It is impossible to conceal from ourselves,
that this is varying the form without varying the substance.
It is treating a prohibition, which is general, as if it were
'confined to a particular mode of doing the forbidden thing.
All must perceive, that a tax on the sale of an article, imported
.only for sale, is a tax on the article itself."
In Tfeston v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, it was held that a tax
upon stock issued for loans to the United States was a tax
upon the loans themselves and equally invalid. In Dobbins v.
Commissioners,16 Pet. 435, it was held that the salary of an
officer of the United States could not be taxed, if the office
was itself exempt. In Almy v. California, 24 How. 169, it
was held that a duty on a bill of lading was the same thing
as a duty on the article transported. In Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S.566, it was held that a tax upon the amount

OCTOBER TERII, 1894.
Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

of sales of goods made by an auctioneer was a tax upon the
goods sold. In Philade4phi & Southern Seamship( Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326, and Leloup v.. 3obile, 127 U. S.
640, 648, it was held that a tax upon the income received
from interstate commerce was a tax upon the commerce itself,
and equally unauthorized. The same doctrine was held in
People v. Oommnissioners of Taxes, 90 N. Y. 63; State ]Ffeight
Tax, 15 Wall. 232, 274; Mfelton v. _tissoumi, 91 U. S. 275,
278, and in .Fargov. 2fichigan, 121 U. S. 230.
The law, so fax as it imposes a tax upon land by taxation of
the rents and income thereof, must therefore fail, as it does
not follow the rule of apportionment. The Constitution is
imperative in its directions on this subject, and admits of no
departure from them.
But the law is not invalid merely in its disregard of the
rule of apportionment of the direct tax levied. There is
another and an equally cogent objection to it. In taxing
incomes other than rents and profits of real estate it disregards the rule of uniformity which is prescribed in such cases
by the Constitution. The eighth section of the first article of
the Constitution declares that "the Congress shall have power
to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to pay
the debts and provide for the common defence and general
welfare of the United States; but all duties, imposts, and excises shall be 'unjfoi.m. throughout the United States." Excises
are a species of tax consisting generally of duties laid upon
the manufacture, sale, or consumption of commodities within
the country, or upon certain callings or occupations, often
taking the form of exactions for licenses to pursue them. The
taxes created by the law under consideration as applied to
savings banks, insurance companies, whether of fire, life, or
marine, to building or other associations, or to the conduct of
any other kind of business, are excise taxes, and fall within
the requirement, so far as they are laid by Congress, that they
must be uniform throughout the United States.
The uniformity thus required is the uniformity throughout
the United States of the duty, impost, and excise levied. That
is, the tax levied cannot be one sum upon an article at one

POLLOCK v. FARMERS'

LOAN & TRUST Co.

593

Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

place and a different sum upon the same article at another
place. The duty received must be the same at all places
throughout the United States, proportioned to the quantity
of the article disposed of or the extent of the business done.
If, for instance, one kind of wine or grain or produce has a
certain duty laid upon it proportioned to its quantity in New
York, it must have a like duty proportioned to its quantitywhen imported at Charleston or San Francisco, or if a tax be
laid upon a certain kind of business proportioned to its extent
at one place, it must be a like tax on the same kind of business proportioned to its extent at another place. In that
sense the duty must be uniform throughout the United States.
It is contended by the government that the Constitution
only requires an uniformity geographical in its character.
That position would be satisfied if the same duty were laid
in all the States, however variant it might be in different
places of the same State. But it could not be sustained in
the latter case without defeating the equality, which is an
essential element of the uniformity required, so far as the
iame is practicable.
In United States v. Singer, 15 Wall. 111, 121, a tax was
imposed upon a distiller, in the nature of an excise, and the
question arose whether in its imposition upon different distillers the uniformity of the tax was preserved, and the court
said: "The law is not in our judgment subject to any constitutional objection. The tax imposed upon the distiller is
in the nature of an excise, and the only limitation upon the
power of Congress in the imposition of taxes of this character
is that they shall be ' uniform throughout the United States.'
The tax here is uniform in its operation; that 'is, it is assessed
equally upon all manufacturers of spirits wherever they are.

The law does not establish one rule for one distiller and a
different rule for another, but the same rule for all alike."
In the Head M3oney Cases, 112 U. S.580, 594, a tax was
imposed upon the owners of steam vessels for each passenger
landed at -NewYork from a foreign port, and it was objected
that the tax was not levied by any rule of uniformity, but the
court, by Justice Miller, replied "The tax is uniform when
VOL. CLVrH-38

OCTOBER TER-M, 1894.
Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

it operates with the same force and effect in every place where
the subject of it is found. The tax in this case, which, as far
as it can be called a tax, is an excise duty on the business of
bringing passengers from foreign countries into this, by ocean
navigation, is uniform and operates precisely alike in every
port of the United States where such passengers can be
landed." In the decision in that case, in the Circuit Court,
18 Fed. Rep. 135, 139, Mr. Justice Blatchford, in addition to
pointing out that "the act was not passed in the exercise of
the power of laying taxes," but was a regulation of commerce,
used the following language: "Aside from this, the tax applies
uniformly to all steam and sail vessels coming to all ports in
the United States, from all foreign ports, with all alien passengers. The tax being a license tax on the business, the 'ule of
iniformity is suff ciently observed if the tax extends to all persons
of the class selected by congress; that is, to all owners of such
vessels. Congress has the exclusive power of selecting the class.
It has regulated that particular branch of commerce which concerns the bringing of alien passengers," and that taxes shall
be levied upon such property as shall be prescribed by law.
The object of this provision was to prevent unjust discriminations. It prevents property from being classified and taxed
as classed, by different rules. All kinds of property must be
taxed uniformly, or be entirely exempt. The uniformity must
be coextensive with the territory to which the tax applies.
Mr. Justice Miller, in his lectures on the Constitution,
(N. Y. 1891) pp. 240, 241, said of taxes levied by Congress:
"The tax must be uniform on the particulararticle; and it
is uniform, within the meaning of the constitutional requirement, if it is made to bear the same percentage over all the
United States. That is manifestly the meaning of this word,
as used in this clause. The framers of the Constitution could
not have meant to say that the government, in raising its revenues, should not be allowed to discriminate between the articles
which it should tax." In discussing generally the requirement
of uniformity found in state constitutions, he said: "The
difficulties in the way of this construction have, however,
been very largely obviated by the meaning of the word

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

595

Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.
uniform,' which has been adopted, holding that the uniformity
must refer to articles of the same class. That is, different
articles may be taxed at different amounts, provided the rate is
uniform on the same class everywhere, with all people, and at
all times."
One of the learned counsel puts it very clearly when he says
that the correct meaning of the provisions requiring duties,
imposts, and excises to be "uniform throughout the United
States" is, that the law imposing them should "have an equal
and uniform application in every part of the Union."
If there were any doubt as to the intention of the States to
make the grant of the right to impose indirect taxes subject
to the condition that such taxes shall be in all respects uniform and impartial, that doubt, as said by counsel, should be
resolved in the interest of justice, in favor of the taxpayer.
Exemptions from the operation of a tax always create inequalities. Those not exempted must, in the end, bear an additional burden or pay more than their share. A law containing arbitrary exemptions can in no just sense be termed
uniform. In my judgment, Congress has rightfully no power,
at the expense of others, owvning property of a like character,
to sustain private trading corporations, such as building and
loan associations, savings banks, and mutual life, fire, marine,
and accident insurance companies, formed under the laws of
the various States, which advance no national purpose or public interest and exist solely for the pecuniary profit of their
members.
Where property is exempt from taxation, the exemption, as
has been justly stated, must be supported by some consideration that the public, and not private, interests will be advanced
by it. Private corporations and private enterprises cannot be
aided under the pretence that it is the exercise of the discretion of the legislature to exempt them. Loan Association v.
Topeka, 20 Wall. 655; Parkersburgv. Brown, 106 U. S. 487;
Barbour v. Louisville Board of Trade, 82 Kentucky, 645,
654, 655; Lexington v. 3'cQuillan's leirs, 9 Dana, 513, 516,
517; and Sutton's Heirs v. Louisville, 5 Dana, 28, 31.
Cooley, in his treatise on Taxation, (2d ed. 215,) justly

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

observes that: "It is difficult to conceive of a justifiable exemption law which should select single individuals or corporations, or single articles of property, and, taking them out of
the class to which they belong, make them the subject of
capricious legislative favor. Such favoritism could make no
pretence to equality'; it would lack the semblance of legitimate tax legislation."
The income tax law under consideration is marked by discriminating features which affect the whole law. It discriminates between those who receive an income of four thousand
dollars and those who do not. It thus vitiates, in my judgment, by this arbitrary discrimination, the whole legislation.
Hamilton says in one of his papers, (the Continentalist,) "the
genius of liberty reprobates everything arbitrary or discretionary in taxation. Itexacts that every man, by a definite
and general rule, should know what proportion of his property
the State demands; whatever liberty we may boast of in
theory, it cannot exist in fact while [arbitrary] assessments
continue." 1 Hliamilton's Works, ed. 1885, 270. The legislation, in the discrimination it makes, is class legislation. Whenever a distinction is made in the burdens a law imposes or in
the benefits it confers on any citizens by reason of their birth,
or wealth, or religion, it is class legislation, and leads inevitably to oppression and abuses, and to general unrest and disturbance in society. ,It was hoped and believed that the great
amendments to the Constitution which followed the late civil
war had rendered such legislation impossible for all future
time. But the objectionable legislation reappears in the act
under consideration. It is the same in essential character
as that of the English income statute of 1691, which taxed
Protestants at a certain rate, Catholics, as a class, at double
the rate of Protestants, and Jews at another and separate rate.
Under wise and constitutional legislation every citizen should
contribute his proportion, however small the sum, to the support of the government, and it is no kindness to urge any of
our citizens to escape from that obligation. If he contributes
the smallest mite of his earnings to that purpose he will have
a greater regard for the government and more self-respect

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

597

Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

for himself feeling that though he is poor in fact, he is not a
pauper of his government. And it is to be hoped that, whatever woes and embarrassments may betide our people, they
may never lose their manliness and self-respect. Those qualities preserved, they will ultimately triumph over all reverses
of fortune.
There is nothing in the nature of the corporations or associations exempted in the present act, or in their method of
doing business, which can be claimed to be of a public or
benevolent nature. They differ in no essential characteristic
intheir business from "all other corporations, companies, or
associations doing business for profit, in the United States."
Act of August 15, 1894, c. 349,  32.
A few words as to some of them, the extent of their capital and business, and of the exceptions made to their taxation:
1st. As to mutual savings banks. --- Under income tax laws
prior to 1870, these institutions were specifically taxed. Under
the new law, certain institutions of this class are exempt,
provided the shareholders do not participate in the profits,
and interest and dividends are only paid to the depositors.
No limit is fixed to the property and income thus exempted
-it may be $100,000 or $100,000,000. One of the counsel
engaged in this case read to us during the argument from
the report of the Comptroller of the Currency, sent by the
President to Congress December 3, 1894, a statement to the
effect that the total number of mutual'savings banks exempted
was 646, and the total number of stock savings banks was
378, and showed that they did the same character of business
and took in the money of depositors for the purpose of making it bear interest, with profit upon it in the same way; and
yet the 646 are exempt and the 378 are taxed. He also showed
that the total deposits in savings banks were $1,748,000,000.
com2d. As to mutual insuv'ance corporations.-These
panies were taxed under previous income tax laws. They do
business somewhat differently from other companies; but they
conduct a strictly private business in which the public has no
interest, and have been often held not to be benevolent or
charitable organizations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mlr. Justice Field's Opinion.

The sole condition for exempting them under the present
law is declared to be that they make loans to or divide their
profits among their members, or depositors or policy-holders.
Every corporation is carried on, however, for the benefit of
its members, whether stockholders, or depositors, or policyholders. If it is carried on for the benefit of its shareholders,
every dollar of income is taxed; if it is carried on for the benefit of its policy-holders or depositors, who are but another
class of shareholders, it is wholly exempted. In the State
of New York the act exempts the income from over
$1,000,000,000 of property of these companies. The leading mutual life insurance company has property exceeding
$204,000,000 in value, the income of which is wholly exempted. The insertion of the exemption is stated by counsel
to have saved that institution fully $200,000 a year over other
insurance companies and associations, having similar property
and carrying on the same business, simply because such other
companies or associations divide their profits among their
shareholders instead of their policy-holders.
3d. As to building and loan associations.-The property
of these institutions is exempted from taxation to the extent
of millions. They are in no sense benevolent or charitable
institutions, and are conducted solely for the pecuniary profit
of their members. Their assets exceed the capital stock of
the national banks of the country. One, in Dayton, Ohio,
has a capital of $10,000,000, and Pennsylvania has $65,000,000
invested in these associations. The census report submitted
to Congress by the President, May 1, 1894, shows that their
property in the United States amounts to over $628,000,000.
Why should these institutions and their immense accumulations of property be singled out for the special favor of Congress and be freed from their just, equal, and proportionate
share of taxation when others engaged under different names,
in similar business, are subjected to taxation by this law ?
The aggregate amount of the saving to these associations, by
reason of their exemption, is over $600,000 a year. If this
statement of the exemptions of corporations under the law of
Congress, taken from the carefully prepared briefs of counsel

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

599

Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

and from reports to Congress, will not satisfy parties interested in this case that the act in question disregards, in almost
every line and provision, the rule of uniformity required by
the Constitution, then "neither will they be persuaded, though
one rose from the dead." That there should be any question
or any doubt on the subject surpasses my comprehension. Take
the case of mutual savings banks and stock savings banks.
They do the same character of business, and in the same way
use the money of depositors, loaning it at interest for profit,
yet 646 of them, under the law before us, are exempt from
taxation on their income and 378 are taxed upon it. How
the tax on the income of one kind of these banks can be said
to be laid upon any principle of uniformity, when the other
is exempt from all taxation, I repeat, surpasses my comprehension.
But there are other considerations against the law which
are equally decisive. They relate to the uniformity and
equality required in all taxation, national and State; to the
invalidity of taxation by the United States of the income of
the bonds and securities of the States and of their municipal
bodies; and the invalidity of the taxation of the salaries of
the judges of the United States courts.
As stated by counsel: "There is no such thing in the
theory of our national government as unlimited power of
taxation in Congress. There are limitations," as he justly
observes, "of its powers arising out of the essential nature of
all free governments; there are reservations of individual
rights, without which society could not exist, and which are
respected by every government. The right of taxation is
subject to these limitations."

Loan Association v. Topeka,

20 Wall. 655, and Paarkersburgv. Brown, 106 U. S.487.
The inherent and fundamental nature and character of a
tax is that of a contribution to the support of the government,
levied upon the principle of equal and uniform apportionment
among the persons taxed, and any other exaction does not
come within the legal definition of a tax.
This inherent limitation upon the taxing power forbids the
imposition of taxes which are unequal in their operation upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

similar kinds of property, and necessarily strikes down the
gross and arbitrary distinctions in the income law as passed
by Congress. The law, as we have seen, distinguishes in
the taxation between corporations by exempting the property
of some of them from taxation and levying the tax on the
property of others when the corporations do not materially
differ from one another in the character of their business or in
the protection required by the government. Trifling differences in their modes of business, but not in their results, are
made the ground and occasion of the greatest possible differences in the amount of taxes levied upon their income, showing that the action of the legislative power upon them has
been arbitrary and capricious and sometimes merely fanciful.
There was another position taken in this case which is not the
least surprising to me of the many advanced by the upholders
of the law, and that is, that if this court shall declare that the
exemptions and exceptions from taxation, extended to the various corporations mentioned, fire, life, and marine insurance
companies, and to mutual savings banks, building, and loan
associations, violate the requirement of uniformity, and are
therefore void, the tax as to such corporations can be enforced,
and that the law will stand as though the exemptions had
never been inserted. This position does not, in my judgment,
rest upon any solid foundation of law or principle. The abrogation or repeal of an unconstitutional or illegal provision does
not operate to create and give force to any enactment or part
of an enactment which Congress has not sanctioned and promulgated. Seeming support of this singular position is attributed to the decision of this court in l--tntington v. TFortken, 120
U. S. 97. But the examination of that case will show that it
does not give the slightest sanction to such a doctrine. There
the constitution of Arkansas had provided that all property
subject to taxation should be taxed according to its value, to
be ascertained in such manner as the general assembly should
direct, making the same equal and uniform throughout the
State, and certain public property was declared by statute to
be exempt from taxation, which statute was subsequently held
to be unconstitutional. The court decided that the unconsti-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

601

Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

tutional part of the enactment, which was separable from the
remainder, could be omitted and the remainder enforced; a
doctrine undoubtedly sound, and which has never, that I am
aware of, been questioned. But that is entirely different from
the position here taken, that exempted things can be taxed by
striking out their exemption.
The law of 1894 says there shall be assessed, levied, and
collected, "except as herein otherwise provided," two per
centum of the amount, etc. If the exceptions are stricken out
there is nothing to be assessed and collected except what Congress has otherwise affirmatively ordered. Nothing less can
have the force of law. This court is impotent to pass any
law on the subject. It has no legislative power. I am unable,
therefore, to see how we can, by declaring an exemption or
exception invalid, thereby give effect to provisions as though
they were never exempted. The court by declaring the exemptions invalid cannot by any conceivable ingenuity give
operative force as enacting clauses to the exempting provisions. That result is not within the power of man.
The law is also invalid in its provisions authorizing the taxation of the bonds and securities of the States and of their
municipal bodies. It is objected that the cases pending before
us do not allege any threatened attempt to tax the bonds or
securities of the State, but only of municipal bodies of the
States. The law applies to both kinds of bonds and securities,
those of the States as well as those of municipal bodies, and the
law of Congress, we are examining, being of a public nature,
affecting the whole community, having been brought before us
and assailed as unconstitutional in some of its provisions, we
are at liberty, and I think it is our duty to refer to other unconstitutional features brought to our notice in examining the
law, though the particular points of their objection may not
have been mentioned by counsel. These bonds and securities
-are as important to the performance of the duties of the
State as like bonds and securities of the United States are
important to the performance of their duties, and are as exempt from the taxation of the United States as the former are
exempt from the taxation of the States. As stated by Judge

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

Cooley in his work on the principles of constitutional law:
"The power to tax, whether by the United States or by the
States, is to be construed in the light of, and limited by, the
fact, that the States and the Union are inseparable, and that
the Constitution contemplates the perpetual maintenance of
each with all its constitutional powers, unembarrassed and unimpaired by any action of the other. The taxing power of the
Federal government does not therefore extend to the means or
agencies through or by the employment of which the States
perform their essential functions, since, if these were within its
reach, they might be embarrassed, and perhaps wholly paralyzed, by the burdens it should impose. ' That the power to
tax involves the power to destroy; that the power to destroy
may defeat and render useless the power to create; that there
is a plain repugnance in conferring on one government a power
to control the constitutional measures of another, which other,
in respect to those very measures, is declared to be supreme
over that which exerts the control, -are
propositions not to
be denied.' It is true that taxation does not necessarily and
unavoidably destroy, and that to carry it to the excess of destruction would be an abuse not to be anticipated; but the very
power would take from the States a portion of their intended
liberty of independent action within the sphere of their powers, and would constitute to the State a perpetual danger of
embarrassment and possible annihilation. The Constitution
contemplates no such shackles upon state powers, and by
implication forbids them."
The Internal Revenue Act of June 30, 1864, in section 122,
provided that railroad and certain other companies specified,
indebted for money for which bonds had been issued, upon
which interest was stipulated to be paid, should be subject to
pay a tax of five per cent on the amount of all such interest,
to be paid by the corporations and by them deducted from
the interest payable to the holders of such bonds; and the
question arose in United States v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 322,
327, whether the tax imposed could be thus collected from the
revenues of a city owning such bonds. This court answered
the question as follows: "There is no dispute about the gen-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

603

Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

eral rules of the law applicable to this subject. The power of
taxation by the Federal government upon the subjects and
in the manner prescribed by the act we are considering, is
undoubted. There are, however, certain departments which
are excepted from the general power. The right of the
States to administer their own affairs through their legislative, executive, and judicial departments, in their own manner through their own agencies, is conceded by the uniform
decisions of this court, and by the practice of the Federal
government from its organization. This carries with it an
exemption of those agencies and instruments from the taxing power of the Federal government. If they may be taxed
lightly, they may be taxed heavily; if justly, oppressively.
Their operation may be impeded and may be destroyed, if any
interference is permitted. Hence, the beginning of such taxation is not allowed on the one side, is not claimed on the other."
And again: "A municipal corporation like the city of Baltimore is a representative not only of the State, but it is a portion of its governmental power. It is one of its creatures,
made for a specific purpose, to exercise within a limited sphere
the powers of the State. The State may withdraw these
local powers of government at pleasure, and may, through
its legislature or other appointed channels, govern the local
territory as it governs the State at large. It may enlarge
or contract its powers or destroy its existence. As a portion
of the State in the exercise of a limited portion of the powers
of the State, its revenues, like those of the State, are not subject to taxation."
In Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, 124, the court, speaking
by Mr. Justice Nelson, said: "The general government, and
the States, although both exist within the same territorial
limits, are separate and distinct sovereignties, acting separately and independently of each other, within their respective
spheres. The former in its appropriate sphere is supreme;
but the States within the limits of their powers not granted,
or, in the language of the tenth amendment, 'reserved,' are as
independent of the general government as that government
within its sphere is independent of the States."

OCTOBER TERMI, 1894.
Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

According to the census reports the bonds and securities of
the States amount to the sum of $1,243,268,000, on which the
income or interest exceeds the sum of $65,000,000 per annum,
and the annual tax of two per cent upon this income or
interest would be 81,300,000.
The law of Congress is also invalid in that it authorizes a
tax upon the salaries of the judges of the courts of the United
States, against the declaration of the Constitution that their
'compensation shall not be diminished during their continuance
in office. The law declares that a tax of two per cent shall
be assessed, levied, and collected and paid annually upon the
gains, profits, and income received in the preceding calendar
year, by every citizen of the United States, whether said gains,
profits, or income be derived from any kind of property, rents,
interest, dividends, or salaries,.or from any profession, trade,
employment, or vocation, carried on within the United States
or elsewhere, or from any source whatever. The annual salary of a justice of the Supreme Court of the United States is
ten thousand dollars, and this act levies a tax of two per cent
on six thousand dollars of this amount, and imposes a penalty
upon those who do not make the payment, or return the
amount for taxation.
The same objection, as presented to a consideration of the
objection to the taxation of the bonds and securities of the
States, as not being specially taken in the cases before us, is
urged here to a consideration of the objection to the taxation
by the law of the salaries of the judges of the courts of the
United States. The answer given to that objection may be
-also given to the present one. The law of Congress being of
a public nature, affecting the interests of the whole community,
and attacked for its unconstitutionality in certain particulars,
may be considered with reference to other unconstitutional
provisions called to our attention upon examining the law,
though not specifically noticed in the objections taken in the
records or briefs of counsel, that the Constitution may not be
violated from the carelessness or oversight of counsel in any
particular. See O'NYeil v. Venrnont, 144 U. S.323, 359.
Besides, there is a duty which this court owes to the one

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

605,

Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

hundred other United States judges who have small salaries,
and who having their compensation reduced by the tax may
be seriously affected by the law.
The Constitution of the United States provides in the first
section of article III that: "The judicial power of the United
States, shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts m the Congress may from time to time ordain
and establish. The judges, both of the Supreme and inferior
courts, shall hold their offices during good behavior, and shall,
at stated times, receive for their services, a compensation,
which shall not be digninished during their continuance in
office." The act of Congress under discussion imposes, as said,
a tax on six thousand dollars of this compensation, and therefore diminishes, each year, the compensation provided for
every justice. How a similar law of Congress was regarded
thirty years ago may be shown by the following incident in
which the justices of this court were assessed at three per
cent upon their salaries. Against this Chief Justice Taney
protested in a letter to Mr. Chase, then Secretary of the Treasury, appealing to the above article in the Constitution, and
addinr: "If it [his salary] can be diminished to that extent
by the means of a tax, it may, in the same way, be reduced from
time to time, at the pleasure of the legislature." He explained
in his letter the object of the constitutional inhibition thus "The judiciary is one of the three great departments of the
government created and established by the Constitution. Its.
duties and powers are specifically set forth, and are of a character that require it to be perfectly independent of the other
departments. And in order to place it beyond the reach,
and above even the suspicion, of any such influence, the power
to reduce their compensation is expressly withheld from
Congress and excepted from their owers of legislation.
"Language could not be more plain than that used in the
Constitution. It is, moreover, one of its most important and
essential provisions. For the articles which limit the powers
of the legislative and executive branches of the government,
and those which provide safeguards for the protection of the
citizen in his person and property, would be of little value

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

without a judiciary to uphold and maintain them which was
free from every influence, direct or indirect, that might by
possibility, in times of political excitement, warp their judgment.
"Upon these grounds I regard an act of Congress retaining
in the Treasury a portion of the compensation of the judges
as unconstitutional and void."
This letter of Chief Justice Taney was addressed to MIr.
Chase, then Secretary of the Treasury and afterwards the successor of Mr. Taney as Chief Justice. It was dated February
16, 1863, but as no notice was taken of it, on the 10th of
March following, at the request of the Chief Justice, the Court
ordered that his letter to the Secretary of the Treasury be entered on the records of the court, and it was so entered. See
Appendix, post, 701. And in the Memoir of the Chief Justice it is stated that the letter was, by this order, preserved
"to testify to future ages that in war, no less than in peace,
Chief Justice Taney strove to protect the Constitution from
violation."
Subsequently, in 1869, and during the administration of
President Grant, when Mr. Boutwell was Secretary of the
Treasury and Mr. Hoar, of Massachusetts, was Attorney
General, there were in several of the statutes of the United
States, for the assessment and collection of internal revenue,
provisions for taxing the salaries of all civil officers of the
United States, which included, in their literal application, the
salaries of the President and of the judges of the United
States. The question arose whether the law which imposed
such a tax upon them was constitutional. The opinion of the
Attorney General thereon was requested by the Secretary of
the Treasury. The Attorney General, in reply, gave an elaborate opinion advising the Secretary of the Treasury that no
income tax could be lawfully assessed and collected upon the
salaries of those officers who were in office at the time the
statute imposing the tax was passed, holding on this subject
the views expressed by Chief Justice Taney. His opinion is
published in volume XIII of the Opinions of the Attorneys
General, at page 161. I am informed that it has been fol-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

607

Mr. Justice Field's Opinion.

lowed ever since without question by the department supervising or directing the collection of the public revenue.
Here I close my opinion. I could not say less in view of
questions of such gravity that go down to the very foundation
of the government. If the provisions of the Constitution can
be set- aside by an act of Congress, where is the course of
usurpation to end? - The present assault upon capital is but
the beginning. It will be but the stepping-stone to others,
larger and more sweeping, till our political contests will become a war of the poor against the rich; a war constantly
growing in intensity and bitterness.
"If the court sanctions the power of discriminating taxation, and nullifies the uniformity mandate of the Constitution," as said by one who has been all his life a student of our
institutions, "it will mark the hour when the sure decadence
of our present government will commence." If the purely
arbitrary limitation of $4000 in the present law can be sustained, none having less than that amount of income being
assessed or taxed for the support of the government, the limitation of future Congresses may be fixed at a much larger
sum, at five or ten or twenty thousand dollars, parties possessing an income of that amount alone being bound to bear the
burdens of government; or the limitation may be designated
at such an amount as a board of "walking delegates" may
deem necessary. There is no safety in allowing the limitation to be adjusted except in strict compliance with the mandates of the Constitution which require its taxation, if imposed
by direct taxes, to be apportioned among the States according
to their representation, and if imposed by indirect taxes, to be
uniform in operation and, so far as practicable, in proportion
to their property, equal upon all citizens. Unless the rule of
the Constitution governs, a majority may fix the limitation at
such rate as will not include any of their own number.
I am of opinion that the whole law of 1894 should be declared void and without any binding force - that part which
relates to the tax on the rents, profits or income from real
estate, that is, so much as constitutes part of the direct tax,
because, not imposed by the rule of apportionment according

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

to the representation of the States, as prescribed by the Constitution- and that part which imposes a tax upon the bonds
and securities of the several States, and upon the bonds and
securities of their municipal bodies, and upon the salaries of
judges of the courts of the United States, as being beyond the
power of Congress; and that part which lays duties, imposts,
and excises, as void in not providing for the uniformity required by the Constitution in such cases.
11R.

JUSTIOE WHITE,

HARLAN,

with whom concurred An.

JusTIcE

dissenting.

-ly brief judicial experience has convinced me that the custom of filing long dissenting opinions is one "more honored
in the breach than in the observance." The only purpose
which an elaborate dissent can accomplish, if any, is to
weaken the effect of the opinion of the majority, and thus
engender want of confidence in the conclusions of courts of
last resort. This consideration would impel me to content
myself with simply recording my dissent in the present case,
were it not for the fact that I consider that the result of the
opinion of the court just announced is to overthrow a long
and consistent line of decisions, and to deny to the legislative
department of the government the possession of a power conceded to it by universal consensus for one hundred years, and
which has been recognized by repeated adjudications of this
court. The issues presented are as follows:
Complainant, as a stockholder in a corporation, avers that
the latter will voluntarily pay the income tax, levied under
the recent act of Congress ; that such tax is unconstitutional;
and that its voluntary payment will seriously affect his interest by defeating his right to test the validity of the exaction,
and also lead to a multiplicity of suits against the corporation.
The prayer of the bill is as follows: First. That it may be
decreed that the provisions known as "The Income Tax
Law," incorporated in the act of Congress, passed August 15,
1894, are unconstitutional, nill, and void. Second. That the
defendant be restrained from voluntarily complying with the
provisions of that act by making its returns and statements,

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

609

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

and paying the tax. The bill, therefore, presents two substantial questions for decision: the right of the plaintiff to relief
in the form in which he claims it; and his right to relief on
the merits.
The decisions of this court hold tfiat the collection of a tax
levied by the government of the United States, will not be
restrained by its courts. Cheatham v. United States; 92 U. S.
85; Snyder v. Ma'ks, 109 U. S. 189. See also Elliott v.
Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137; ity of Philadelphiba v. The Collector, 5 Wall. 720; Ifornthall v. The Collector, 9 Wall. 560.
The same authorities have established the rule that the proper
course, in a case of illegal taxation, is to pay the tax under
protest or with notice of suit, and then bring an action
against the officer who collected it. The statute law of the
United States, in express terms, gives a party who has paid a
tax under protest the right to sue for its recovery. Rev. Stat.

 3226.
The act of 1867 forbids the maintenance of any suit "for
the purpose of restraining the assessment or collection of any
tax." The provisions of this act are now found in Rev. Stat.

3224.
The complainant is seeking to do the very thing which, according to the statute and the decisions above referred to,
may not be done. If the corporator cannot have the collection of the tax enjoined it seems obvious that he canfhot have
the corporation enjoined from paying it, and thus do by indirection what he cannot do directly.
It is said that such relief as is here sought has been frequently allowed. The cases relied on are Dodge v. Woolsey,
18 How. 331, and Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 450. Neither
of these authorities, I submit, is in point. In Dodge v.
Woolsey, the main question at issue was the validity of a
state tax, and that case did not involve the act of Congress
to which I have referred. Hawes v. Oakland was a controversy between a stockholder and a corporation, and had no
reference whatever ta taxation.
The complainant's attempt to establish a right to relief
upon the ground that this is not a suit to enjoin the tax, but
VOL. CLII-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JTT.

one to enjoin the corporation from paying it, involves the
fallacy already pointed out - that is, that a party can exercise
a right indirectly which he cannot assert directly - that he
can compel his agent, through process of this court, to violate
an act of Congress.
The rule which forbids the granting of an injunction to
restrain the collection of a tax is founded on broad reasons of
public policy and should not be ignored. In Cheatham v.
Uinited States, 92 U. S. 85, 89, which involved the validity of
an income tax levied under an act of Congress prior to the
one here in issue, this court, through Mr. Justice Mfiller, said:
"If there existed in the courts, state or National, any
general power of impeding or controlling the collection of
taxes, or relieving the hardship incident to taxation, the very
existence of the government might be placed in the power
of a hostile judiciary. Dows v. The City of Clieago, 11 Wall.
108. While a free course of remonstrance and appeal is
allowed within the departments before the money is finally
exacted, the general government has wisely made the payment of the tax claimed, whether of customs or of internal
revenue, a condition precedent to a resort to the courts by
the party against whom the tax is assessed. In the internal
revenue branch it has further prescribed that no such suit
shall be brought until the remedy by appeal has been tried;
and, if brought after this, it must be within six months after
the decision on the appeal. We regard this as a condition on
which alone the government consents to litigate the lawfulness of the original tax. It is not a hard condition. Few
governments have conceded such a right on any condition.
If the compliance with this condition requires the party
aggrieved to pay the money, he 'mustdo it." 929 U. S. 85, 89.
Again, in Pailroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 613, the court
said: "That there might be no misunderstanding of the universality of this principle, it was expressly enacted, in 1867,
that ' no suit for the purpose of restraining the assessment or
collection of any tax shall be maintained in any court.' Rev.
Stat. sect. 3224. And though this was intended to apply
alone to taxes levied by the United States, it shows the sense

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

611

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

of Congress of the evils to be feared if courts of justice could,
in any case, interfere with the process of collecting the taxes
on which the government depends for its continued existence.
It is a wise policy. It is founded in the simple philosophy
derived from the experience of ages, that the payment of
taxes has to be enforced by summary and stringent means
against a reluctant and often adverse sentiment; and to do
this successfully, other instrumentalities and other modes of
procedure are necessary, than those which belong to courts
of justice. See Ckeathamn v. 3rorvell, decided at this term;
.Aicoll v. United States, 7 Wall. 122; Dows v. Ohicago, 11
Wall. 108."
The contention that a right to equitable relief arises from
the fact that the corporator is without remedy unless such
relief be granted him is, I think, without foundation. This
court has repeatedly said that the illegality of a tax is not
ground for the issuance of an injunction against its collection
if there be an adequate remedy at law open to the payer.
Dows v. City of Cliicago, 11 Wall. 108; Hannewinkle v.
Georgetown, 15 Wall. 517; Boarcl of Liquidation v. McComb,
92 U. S. 531 ; State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575; Union.
Pacific Railway v. Cheyenne, 113 U. S. 516; Milwaukee v.
Jfoeffier, 116 U: S. 219; Pacific Express Co. v. Seibert, 142
in the case where the state statute, by which
U. S. 339 -as
the tax is imposed, allows a suit for its recovery after payment under protest. Shelton v. Platt,139 U. S. 591; Allen v.
Pullman'sPalace Car Co., 139 U. S. 658.
The decision here is, that this court will allow, on the
theory of equitable right, a remedy expressly forbidden by
the statutes of the United States, though it has denied the
existence of such a remedy in the case of a tax levied by a
State.
Will it be said that, although a stockholder cannot have a
corporation enjoined from paying a state tax where the state
statute gives him the right to sue for its recovery, yet when
the United States not only gives him such right, but, in
addition, forbids the issue of an injunction to prevent the
payment of Federal taxes, the court will allow to the stock-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

holder a remedy against the United States tax which it
refuses against the state tax?
The assertion that this is only a suit to prevent the voluntary payment of the tax suggests that the court may, by an
order operating directly upon the defendant corporation, accomplish a result which the statute manifestly intended should
not be accomplished by suit in any court. A final judgment
forbidding the corporation from paying the tax will have the
effect to prevent its collection, for it could not be that the
court would permit a tax to be collected from a corporation
which it had enjoined from paying. I take it to be beyond
dispute that the collection of the tax in question cannot be
restrained by any proceeding or suit, whatever its form,
directly against the officer charged with the duty of collecting
such tax. Can the statute be evaded, in a suit between a
corporation and a stockholder, by a judgment forbidding the
former from paying the tax, the collection of which cannot
be restrained by suit in any court? Suppose, notwithstanding the final judgment just rendered, the collector proceeds to
collect from the defendant corporation the taxes which the
court declares, in this suit, cannot be legally assessed upon it.
If that final judgment is sufficient in law to justify resistance
against such collection, then we have a case'in which a suit
has been maintained to restrain the collection of taxes. If
such judgment does not 'conclude the collector, who was not
a party to the suit in which it was rendered, then it is of no
value to the plaintiff. In other words, no form of expression
can conceal the fact that the real object of this suit is to
prevent the collection of taxes imposed by Congress, notwithstanding the express statutory requirement that "no suit for
the purpose of restraining the assessment or collection of any
tax shall be maintained in any court." Either the decision
of the constitutional question is necessary, or it is not. If
it is necessary, then the court, by way of granting equitable
relief, does the very thing which the act of Congress forbids.
If it is unnecessary, then the court decides the act of Congress
here asserted unconstitutional, without being 6bliged to do so
by the requirements of the case before it.

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

613

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

This brings me to the consideration of the merits of the
cause.
The constitutional provisions respecting Federal taxation
are four in number, and are as follows:
1. "Representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned
among the several States, which may be included within this
Union, according to their respective numbers, which shall be
determined by adding to the whole number of free persons, including those bound to service for a term of years and excluding Indians not taxed, three-fifths of all other persons." Art.
I, sec. 2, clause 3. (The Fourteenth Amendment modified this
provision, so that the whole number of persons in each State
should be counted, "Indians not taxed" excluded.)
2. "The Congress shall have power to lay and collect
taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to pay the debts and
provide for the common defence and general welfare of the
United States; but all duties, imposts, and excises shall be
Art. I, sec. 8,
uniform throughout the United States."
clause 1.
3. "No capitation or other direct tax shall be laid, unless in proportion to the census or enumeration hereinbefore
directed to be taken." Art. I, sec. 9, clause 4.
4. "No tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from
any State." Art. I, see. 9, clause 5.
It has been suggested that, as the above provisions ordain
the apportionment of direct taxes, and authorize Congress
to "lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises," therefore, there is a class of taxes which are neither direct, and
are not duties, imposts, and excises, and are exempt from
the rule of apportionment on the one hand or of uniformity on the other. The soundness of this suggestion need not
be discussed, as the words, "duties, imposts, and excises," in
conjunction with the reference to direct taxes, adequately
convey all power of taxation to the Federal government.
It is not necessary to pursue this branch of the argument,
since it is unquestioned that the provisions of the Constitution
vest in the United States plenary powers of taxation, that is,
all the powers which belong to a government as such, except

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

that of taxing exports. The court in this case so says, and
quotes approvingly the language of this court, speaking
through i[r. Chief Justice Chase, in License Tax Cases, 5
Wall. 462, 471, as follows:
"It is true that the power of Congress to tax is a very extensive power. It is given in the Constitution with only one
exception and only two qualifications. Congress cannot tax
exports, and it must impose direct taxes by the rule of apportionment, and indirect taxes by the rule of uniformity. Thus
limited and thus only, it reaches every subject and may be
exercised at discretion."
In deciding, then, the question of whether the income tax
violates the Constitution, we have to determine not the exsitence of a power in Congress, but whether an admittedly unlimited power to tax (the income tax not being a tax
on exports) has been used according to the restrictions as to
methods for its exercise, found in the Constitution. Not
power, it must be borne in mind, but the manner of its use
is the only issue presented in this case. The limitations in
regard to the mode of direct taxation imposed by the Constitution are that capitation and other direct taxes shall be
apportioned among the States according to their respective
numbers, while duties, imposts, and excises must be uniform
throughout the United States. The meaning of the word
" uniform" in the Constitution need not be examined, as the
court is divided upon that subject, and no expression of opinion thereon is conveyed or intended to be conveyed in this
dissent.
In considering whether we are to regard an income tax as
"direct" or otherwise, it will, in my opinion, serve no useful
purpose, at this late period of our political history, to seek to
ascertain the meaning of the word "direct" in the Constitution
by resorting to the theoretical opinions on taxation found in
the writings of some economists prior to the adoption of the
Constitution or since. These economists teach that the question of whether a tax is direct or indirect, depends not upon
whether it is directly levied upon a person but upon whether,
when so levied, it may be ultimately shifted from the person

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

615

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

in question to the consumer, thus becoming, while direct in
the method of its application, indirect in its final results, because it reaches the person who really pays it only indirectly.
I say it will serve no useful purpose to examine these writers,
because whatever may have been the value of their opinions as
to the economic sense of the word " direct," they cannot now
afford any criterion for determining its meaning in the Con.
stitution, inasmuch as an authoritative and conclusive construction has been given to that term, as there used by an
interpretation adopted shortly after the formation of the
Constitution by the legislative department of the government, and approved by the Executive; by the adoption of
that interpretation from that time to the present without
question, and its exemplification and enforcement in many
legislative enactments, and its acceptance by the authoritative text-writers on the Constitution; by the sanction of that
interpretation, in a decision of this court rendered shortly
after the Constitution was adopted; and finally by the repeated reiteration and affirmance of that interpretation, so
that it has become imbedded in our jurisprudence, and therefore may be considered almost a part of the written Constitution itself.
Instead, therefore, of following counsel in their references
to economic writers and their discussion of the motives and
thoughts which may or may not have been present in the
minds of some of the framers of the Constitution, as if the
question before us were one of first impression, I shall confine
myself to a demonstration of the truth of the propositions just
laid down.
By the act of June 5, 1794, c. 45, 1 Stat. 373, Congress
levied, without reference to apportionment, a tax on carriages
"for the conveyance of persons." The act provided "that
there shall be levied, collected, and paid upon all carriages
for the conveyance of persons which shall be kept by, or for
any person for his or her own use, or to be let out to hire, or
for the conveying of passengers, the several duties and rates
following;" and then came a yearly tax on every "coach,
chariot, phaeton, and coachee, every four-wheeled and every

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

two-wheeled top carriage, and upon every other two-wheeled
carriage," varying in amount according to the vehicle.
The debates which took place at the passage of that act
are meagrely preserved. It may, however, be inferred from
them that some considered that, whether a tax was "direct"
or not in the sense of the Constitution, depended upon whether
it was levied on the object or on its use. The carriage tax
was defended by a few on the ground that it was a tax on
consumption. Mr. Madison opposed it as unconstitutional,
evidently upon the conception that the word " direct" in the
Constitution was to be considered as having the same meaning as that which had been attached to it by some economic
writers. His view was not sustained, and the act passed by a
large majority - forty-nine to twenty-two. It received the
approval of Washington. The Congress which passed this
law numbered among its members many who sat in the convention which framed the Constitution. It is moreover safe
to say that each member of that Congress, even although he
had no.t been in the convention, had, in some way, either
directly or indirectly, been an influential actor in the events
which led up to the birth of that instrument. It is impossible
to make an analysis of this act which will not show that its
provisions constitute a rejection of the economic construction
of the word "direct," and this result equally follows, whether
the tax be treated as laid on the carriage itself or on its use
by the owner. If viewed in one light, then the imposition of
the tax on the owner of the carriage, because of his ownership, necessarily constituted a direct tax under the rule as
laid down by economists. So, also, the imposition of a burden of taxation on the owner for the use by him of his own
carriage made the tax direct according to the same rule. The
tax having been imposed without apportionment, it follows
that those who voted for its enactment must have given to the
word direct, in the Constitution, a different significance from
that which is affixed to it by the economists referred to.
The validity of this carriage tax was considered by this
court in H-ylton v. The United States, 3 Dall. 171. Chief
Justice Ellsworth and M1r. Justice Cushing took no part in

POLLOCK v. FABINERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

617

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

the decision. Mr. Justice Wilson stated that he had, in the
Circuit Court of Virginia, expressed his opinion in favor of
the constitutionality of the tax. Mir. Justice Chase, Mr.
Justice Paterson, and Mr. Justice Iredell each expressed the
reasons for his conclusions. The tax though laid, as I have
said, on the carriage, was held not to be a direct tax under
the Constitution. Two of the judges who sat in that case
(Mr. Justice Paterson and Mr. Justice Wilson) had been distinguished members of the constitutional convention. Excerpts from the observations of the justices are given in the
opinion of the court. Mr. Justice Paterson, in addition to the'
language there quoted, spoke as follows, p. 177 (the italics
being mine):
"1 never entertaineda doubt that the _principal,I will not
say the only, objects that the framers of the Constitution contemplated as falling within the 9-ule of apportionmentwere a
capitation tax and a tax on land. Local considerations, and
the particular circumstance and relative situation of the
States, naturally lead to this view of the subject. The provision was made in favor of the Southern States. They possessed a large number of slaves; they had extensive tracts of
territory, thinly settled, and not very productive. A majority
of the States had but few slaves, and several of them a limited territory, well settled, and in a high state of cultivation.
The Southern States, if no provision had been introduced in
the Constitution, would have been wholly at the mercy of the
other States. Congress, in such case, might tax slaves at discretion or arbitrarily, and land in every part of the Union after
the same rate or measure -so much a head in the first instance
and so much an acre in the second. To guard them against
imposition in these particulars was the reason of introducing
the clause in the Constitution, which directs that representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned among the States
according to their respective numbers."
It is evident that Mr. Justice Chase coincided with these
views of Mr. Justice Paterson, though he was perhaps not
quite so firmly settled in his convictions, for he said, p. 176:
"I am inclined to think, but of this I do not give a judicial

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

opinion, that the direct taxes contemplated by the Constitution are only two, to wit, a capitation or poll tax simply, without regard to property, profession, or any other circumstances,
and the tax on land. I doubt whether a tax by a general
assessment of personal property within the United States is
included within the term ' direct tax.' "
Mr. Justice Iredell certainly entertained similar views,
since he said, p. 183:
"Some difficulties may occur which we do not at present foresee. Perhaps a direct tax in the sense of the Constitution can mean nothing but a tax on something inseparably
annexed to the soil; something capable of apportionment
under all such circumstances. A land or poll tax may be
considered of this description
In regard to other articles there may possibly be considerable doubt."
These opinions strongly indicate that the real convictions
of the justices were that only capitation taxes and taxes on
land were direct within the meaning of the Constitution, but
they doubted whether some other objects of a kindred nature
might not be embraced in that word. Mr. Justice Paterson
had no doubt whatever of the limitation, and Justice Iredell's
doubt seems to refer only to things which were inseparably
connected with the soil, and which might therefore be considered, in a certain sense, as real estate.
That case, however, established that a tax levied without
apportionment on an object of personal property was not a
"direct tax" within the meaning of the Constitution. There
can be no doubt that the enactment of this tax and its interpretation by the court, as well as the suggestion in the opinions delivered, that nothing was a direct tax within the
meaning of the Constitution but a capitation tax and a tax on
land, was all directly in conflict with the views of those who
claimed at the time that the word "direct" in the Constitution was to be interpreted according to the views of economists. This is conclusively shown by MNr. Madison's language.
le asserts not only that the act had been passed contrary to
the Constitution, but that the decision of the court was likewise in violation of that instrument. Ever since the announce-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & 'TRUST CO.

619

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

ment of the decision in that case the legislative department of
the government has accepted the opinions of the justices as
well as the decision itself as conclusive in regard to the meaning of the word "direct," and it has acted upon that assumption in many instances and always with Executive endorsement. All the acts passed levying direct taxes confined
them practically to a direct levy on land. True in some
of these acts a tax on slaves was included, but this inclusion,
as has been said by this court, was probably based upon the
theory that these were in some respects taxable along with
the land, and, therefore, their inclusion indicated no departure
by Congress from the meaning of the word "direct," necessarily resulting from the decision in the ilylton case, and which,
moreover, had been expressly elucidated and suggested as
being practically limited to capitation taxes and taxes on real
estate by the justices who expressed opinions in that case.
These acts imposing direct taxes having been confined in
their operation exclusively to real estate and slaves, the subject-matters indicated as the proper object of direct taxation
in the HIylw case, are the strongest possible evidence that
this suggestion was accepted as conclusive and had become
a settled rule of law. Some of these acts were passed at
times of great public necessity when revenue was urgently
required. The fact that no other subjects were selected for
the purposes of direct taxation, except those which the judges
in the Hylton case had suggested as appropriate therefor,
seems to me to lead to a conclusion which is absolutely
irresistible -that
the meaning thus affixed to the word
"direct" at the very formation of the government was considered as having been as irrevocably determined, as if it had
been written in the Constitution in express terms. As I have
already observed, every authoritative writer who has discussed the Constitution from that date down to this has
treated this judicial and legislative ascertainment of the
meaning of the word "direct" in the Constitution as giving
it a constitutional significance without reference to the theoretical distinction between "direct" and "indirect," made by
some economists prior to the Constitution, or since. This doe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

trine has become a part of the horn-book of American constitutional fliterpretation, has been taught as elementary in all the
law schools, and has never since then been anywhere authoritatively questioned. Of course, the text-books may conflict
in some particulars, or indulge in reasoning not always consistent, but as to the effect of the decision in the flylton case,
and the meaning of the word "direct," in the Constitution, resulting therefrom, they are a unit. I quote briefly from thema.
Chancellor Kent, in his Commentaries thus states the principle:
"The construction of the powers of Congress relative to taxation was brought before the Supreme Court, in 1796, in the
case of ilylton v. The United States. By the act of 5th June,
1794-, Congress laid a duty upon carriages for the conveyance
of persons, and the question was whether this was a direet
tax, within the meaning of the Constitution. If it was not a
direct tax, it was admitted to be rightly laid, under that part
of the Constitution which declares that all duties, imposts, and
excises shall be uniform throughout the United States; but if
it was a direct tax it was not constitutionally laid, for it must
then be laid accordino to the census, under that part of the
Constitution which declares that direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several States according to numbers. The
Circuit Court in Virginia was divided in opinion on the question, but on appeal to the Supreme Court it was decided that
the tax on carriages was not a direct tax, within the letter or
meaning of the Constitution, and was therefore constitutionally laid.
"The question was deemed of very great importance, and
was elaborately argued. It was held that a general power
was given to Congress to lay and collect taxes of every kind
or nature, without any restraint. They had plenary power
over every species of taxable property, except exports. But
there were two rules prescribed for their government: the
rule of uniformity, and the rule of apportionment. Three kinds
of taxes, viz., duties, imposts, and excises, were to be laid by
the first rule; and capitation, and other direct taxes, by the
second rule. If there were any other species of taxes, as the

POLLOCK v. FAlIREIS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

621

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

court seemed to suppose there might be, that were not direct,
and not included within the words duties, imposts, or excises,
they were to be laid by the rule of uniformity or not, as Congress should think proper and reasonable.
"The Constitution contemplated no taxes as direct taxes,
but such as Congress could lay in proportion to the census;
and the rule of apportionment could not reasonably apply to
a tax on carriages, nor could the tax on carriages be laid
by that rule without very great inequality and injustice.
If two states, equal in census, were each to pay 8000 dollars
by a tax on carriages, and in one state there were 100 carriages and in another 1000, the tax on each carriage would be
ten times as much in one state as in the other. While A, in
the one state, would pay for his carriage eight dollars, B, in
the other state, would pay for his carriage eighty dollars.
In this way it was shown by the court that the notion that
a tax on carriages was a direct tax within the purview of the
Constitution, and to be apportioned according to the census,
would lead to the grossest abuse and oppression. This argument was conclusive against the construction set up, and the
tax on carriages was considered as included within the power to
lay duties; and the better opinion seemed to be that the direct
taxes contemplated by the Constitution were only two, viz., a
capitation or poll tax and a tax on land." I Kent Com. 254, 56.
Story, speaking on the same subject, 1 Story Const.  955,
says: "Taxes on lands, houses, and other permanent real
estate, or on parts or appurtenances thereof, have always been
deemed of the same character, that is, direct taxes. It has
been seriously doubted if, in the sense of the Constitution,
any taxes are direct taxes, except those on polls or on lands.
Mr. Justice Chase, in Hlylton v. United States, 3 Dall. 171, said:
II am inclined to think that the direct taxes contemplated by
the Constitution are only two, viz: a capitation or poll tax
simply, without regard to property, profession, or other circumstances, and a tax on land. I doubt whether a tax by a
general assessment of personal property within the United
States is included within the term "direct tax."' Mr. Justice
Paterson in the same case said: ' It is not necessary to deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

mine whether a tax on the produce of land be a direct or an
indirect tax. Perhaps the inmediate product of land, in its
original and crude state, ought to be considered as a part of
the land itself. When the produce is converted into a manufacture, it assumes a new shape, etc. Whether "direct taxes,"
in the sense of the Constitution, comprehend any other tax
than a capitation tax, or a tax on land, is a questionable point,
etc. I never entertained a doubt that the principal, I will
not say the only, objects that the framers of the Constitution
contemplated, as falling within the rule of apportionment,
were a capitation tax and a tax on land.' And he proceeded
to state that the rule of apportionment, both as regards representatives and as regards direct taxes, was adopted to guard
the Southern States against undue impositions and oppressions
in the taxing of slaves. Mr. Justice Iredell in the same case
said: 'Perhaps a direct tax, in the sense of the Constitution,
can mean nothing but a tax on something inseparably annexed to the soil; something capable of apportionment under
all such circumstances. A land or poll tax may be considered
of this description. The latter is to be considered so, particularly under the present Constitution, on account of the slaves
in the Southern States, who give a ratio in the representation
in the proportion of three to five. Either of these is capable
of an apportionment. In regard to other articles, there may
possibly be considerable doubt.' The reasoning of the Federalist seems to lead to the same result."
Cooley, in his work on Constitutional Limitations, 595, 5th
ed., marginal paging *480, thus tersely states the rule: "Direct
taxes, when laid by Congress, must be apportioned among the
several States according to the representative population. The
term ' direct taxes' as employed in the Constitution has a technical meaning, and embraces capitation and land taxes only."
Miller on the Constitution, 237, thus puts it: "Under the
provisions already quoted the question came up as to what is
a ' direct tax,' and also upon what property it is to be levied,
as distinguished from any other tax. In regard to this it is
sufficient to say that it is believed that no other than a capitation tax of so much per head and a land tax is a direct tax

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

623

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States.
All other taxes, except imposts, are properly called excise taxes.
Direct taxes, within the meaning of the Constitution, are only
capitation taxes, as expressed in that instrument, and taxes on
real estate."
In Pomeroy's Constitutional Law ( 281) we read as follows:
"It becomes necessary, therefore, to inquire a little more
particularly: What are direct and what indirect taxes? Few
cases on the general question of taxation have arisen and
been decided by the Supreme Court for the simple reason
that, until the past few years, the United States has generally
been able to obtain all needful revenue from the single source
of duties upon imports. There can be no doubt, however,
that all the taxes provided for in the internal revenue acts
now in operation are indirect.
"This subject came before the Supreme Court of the
United States in a very early case, -Hylton v. Thie United
States. In the year 1794 Congress laid a tax of ten dollars
on all carriages, and the rate was thus made uniform. The
validity of the statute was disputed; it was claimed that the
tax was direct and should 'have been apportioned among the
states. The court decided that this tax was not direct.
The reasons given for the decision are unanswerable, and
would seem to cover all the provisions of the present internal
revenue laws."
Hare, in his treatise on American Constitutional Law (vol. 1,
pp. 249, 250), is to the like effect: "Agreeably to section 9 of
article I, paragraph 4, ' no capitation or other direct tax shall
be laid except in proportion to the census or enumeration
hereinbefore directed to be taken ;' while section 3 of the
same article requires that representation and direct taxes shall
be apportioned among the several States . . . according
to their respective numbers. Direct taxes in the sense of the
Constitution are poll taxes and taxes on land."
Burroughs on Taxation (p. 502) takes the same view: "-Dikinds of taxation authorized are both direct
'reet taxes -The
The construction given to the expression
and indirect.
' direct taxes,' is that it includes only a tax on land and a poll

OCTOBER TERIAM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

tax, and this is in accord with the views of writers upon political economy."
Ordronaux, in his Constitutional Legislation, (p. 225), says:
"Congress having been given the power ' to lay and collect
taxes, duties, imposts, and excises,' the above three provisions are limitations upon the exercise of this authority:
"1st. By distinguishing between direct and indirect taxes
as to their mode of assessment;
"2d. By establishing a permanent freedom of trade between
the States ; and
"3d. By prohibiting any discrimination in favor of particular States, through revenue laws establishing a preference
between their ports and those of the others.
"These provisions should be read together, because they are
at the foundation of our system of national taxation.
"The two rules prescribed for the government of Congress
in laying taxes are those of apportionment for direct taxes
and uniformity for indirect. In the first class are to be found
capitation or poll taxes and taxes on land; in the second,
duties, imposts, and excises. . .
"The provision relating to capitation taxes was made in
favor of the Southern States, and for the protection of slave
property. While they possessed "alarge number of persons of
this class, they also had extensive tracts of sparsely settled
and unproductive lands. At the same time an opposite condition, both as to land-territory and population, existed in a
majority of the other States. Were Congress permitted to
tax slaves and land in all parts of the country at a uniform
rate, the Southern Slave States must have been placed at a
great disadvantage. Hence, and to guard against this inequality of circumstances, there was introduced into the Constitution the further provision that 'representatives and
direct taxes shall be apportioned among the States according
to their respective numbers.' This changed the basis of direct
taxation from a strictly monetary standard, which could not,
equitably, be made uniform throughout the country, to one
resting upon population, as the measure of representation.
But for this Congress might have taxed slaves arbitrarily and

P1OLLOCK v. FARMNfERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

625

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

at its pleasure as so much property, and land uniformly
throughout the Union regardless of differences in productiveness. It is not strange, therefore, that in Hylton v. United
States the court said that ' the rule of apportionment is radically wrong, and cannot be supported by any solid reasoning.
It ought not, therefore, to be extended by construction.
Apportionment is an operation on States and involves valuations and assessments which are arbitrary, and should not be
resorted to but in case of necessity.'
"Direct taxes being now well settled in their meaning, a
tax on carriages left for the use of the owner is not a capitation
tax; nor a tax on the business of an insurance company; nor
a tax on a bank's circulation; nor a tax on income; nor a
succession tax. The foregoing are not, properly speaking,
direct taxes within the meaning of the Constitution, but excise
taxes or duties."
Black, writing on Constitutional Law, says: "But the chief
difficulty has arisen in determining what is the difference
between direct taxes and such as are indirect. In general
usage, and according to the terminology of political economy,
a direct tax is one which is levied upon the person who is to
pay it, or upon his land or personalty, or his business or income,
as the case may be. An indirect tax is one assessed upon the
manufacturer or dealer in the particular commodity, and paid
by him; but which really falls upon the consumer, since it is
added to the market price of the commodity which he must
pay. But the course of judicial decision has determined that
the term 'direct,' as here applied to taxes, is to be taken in a
more restricted sense. The Supreme Court has ruled that
only land taxes and capitation taxes are 'direct' and no others.
In 1794 Congress levied a tax of ten dollars on all carriages
kept for use, and it was held that this was not a direct tax.
And so also an income tax is n6t to be considered direct.
Neither is a tax on the circulation of state banks, nor a succession tax, imposed upon every 'devolution of title to real
estate.'" Opinions cited on page 162.
Not only have the other departments of the government
accepted the significance attached to the word "direct" in the
voL. cmiii-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan,

J.

Ilyltonm case by their actions as to direct taxes, but they have also
relied on it as conclusive in their dealings with indirect taxes
by levying them solely upon objects which the judges in that
case declared were not objects of direct taxation. Thus the
affirmance by the Federal legislature and executive of the doctrine established as a result of the Hyltom ease has been twofold.
From 1861 to 1870 many laws levying taxes on income
were enacted, as follows: Act of August 5, 1861, c. 45, 12
Stat. 292, 309, 311; Act of July 1, 1862, c. 119, 12 Stat. 432,
473, 475; Act of 'March 3, 1863, c. 74, 12 Stat. 713, 718, 723:
Act of June 30, 1864, c. 173, 13 Stat. 223, 281, 285; Act of
March 3, 1865, c. 78, 13 Stat. 469, 479, 4S1; Act of March 10,
1866, c. 15, 14 Stat. 4, 5 ; Act of July 13, 1866, c. 184, 14 Stat.
98, 137, 140; Act of March 2, 1867, c. 169, 14 Stat. 471, 477,
480 ; Act of July 14, 1870, c. 255, 16 Stat. 256, 261.
The statutes above referred to all cover income and every
conceivable source of revenue from which it could resultrentals from real estate, products of personal property, the
profits of business or professions.
The validity of these laws has been tested before this court.
The first case on the subject was that of the Paeifie isurmance
Conipany v. Soule, 7 Wall. 433, 443. The controversy in that
case arose under the ninth section of the act of July 13, 1866,
14 Stat. 137, 140, which imposed a tax on "all dividends in
scrip and money, thereafter declared due, wherever and whenever the same shall be payable, to stockholders, policy holders,
or depositors or parties whatsoever, including non-residents
whether citizens or aliens, as part of the earnings, incomes, or
gains of any bank, trust company, savings institution, and of
any fire, marine, life, or inland insurance company, either
stock or mutual, under whatever name or style known or
called in the United States or Territories, whether specially
incorporated or existing under general laws, and on all undistributed sum or sums made or added during the year to their
surplus or contingent funds."
It will be seen that the tax imposed was levied on the income of insurance companies as a unit, including every possible

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

627

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

source of revenue, whether from personal or real property,
from business gains or otherwise. The case was presented
here on a certificate of division of opinion below. One of the
questions propounded was "whether the taxes paid by the
plaintiff and sought to be recovered in this action are not direct
taxes within the meaning of the Constitution of the United
States?" The issue, therefore, necessarily brought before this
court was whether an act imposing an income tax on every
possible source of revenue was valid or invalid. The case was
carefully, ably, elaborately, and learnedly argued. The brief
on behalf of the company, filed by Mr. Wills, was supported
by another signed by M'r. W. 0. Bartlett, which covered every
aspect of the contention. It rested the weight of its argument
against the statute on the fact that it included the rents of real
estate among the sources of income taxed, and therefore put a
direct tax upon the land. Able as have been the arguments
at bar in the present case, an examination of those then presented will disclose the fact that every view here urged was
there pressed upon the court with the greatest ability, and
after exhaustive research, equalled but not surpassed by the
eloquence and learning which has accompanied the presentation of this case. Indeed, it may be said that the principal
authorities cited and'relied on now can be found in the arguments which were then submitted. It may be added that the
case on behalf of the government was presented by Attorney
General Evarts.
The court answered all the contentions by deciding the
generic question of the validity of the tax, thus passing necessarily upon every issue raised, as the whole necessarily includes
every one of its parts. I quote the reasoning applicable to
the matter now in hand:
"The sixth question is: 'Whether the taxes paid by the plaintiff, and sought to be recovered back in this action, are not
di'ect taxes, within the meaning of the Constitution of the
United States.' In considering this subject it is proper to
advert to the several provisions of the Constitution relating to
taxation by Congress. 'Representatives and direct taxes shall
be apportioned among the several States which shall be in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

cluded in this Union according to their respective numbers,'
etc. ICongress shall have power to lay and collect taxes,
duties, imposts, and excises, to pay the debts and provide for
the common defence and general welfare of the United States;
but all duties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform throughcapitation or other direct tax
out the United States.' 'o
shall be laid, unless in proportion to the census or enumeratax or duty
tion hereinbefore directed to be taken.' 'o
shall be laid on articles exported from any State.'
"These clauses contain the entire grant of the taxing power
by the organic law, with the limitations which that instrument imposes.
"The national government, though supreme within its own
sphere, is one of limited jurisdiction and specific functions.
It has no faculties but such as the Constitution has given it,
either expressly or incidentally by necessary intendment.
Whenever any act done under its authority is challenged,
the proper sanction must be found in its charter, or the act
is ultra vires and void. This test must be applied in the examination of the question before us. If the tax to which it
refers is a 'direct tax,' it is clear that it has not been laid in
conformity to the requirements of the Constitution. It is,
therefore, necessary to ascertain to which of the categories
named in the eighth section of the first article it belongs.
"What are dilrect taxes was elaborately argued and considered by this court in Ilylton v. United States, decided in
the year 1796. One of the members of the court, Justice
Wilson, had been a distinguished member of the convention
which framed the Constitution. It was unanimously held by
the four justices who heard the argument that a tax upon
carriages kept by the owner for his own use was not a direct
tax. Justice Chase said: ' I am inclined to think, but of this
I do not give a judicial opinion, that the direct taxes contemplated by the Constitution are only two, to wit, a capitation or poll tax simply, without regard to property, profession,
or any other circumstances, and a tax on land.' Paterson,
Justice, followed in the same line of remark. He said: 'I
never entertained a doubt that the principal - I will not say

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

629

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

the only-object the framers of the Constitution contemplated as falling within the rule of apportionment was a capitation tax or a tax on land. . . . The Constitution declares
that a capitation tax is a direct tax; and both in theory and
practice a tax on land is deemed to be a direct tax. In this
way the terms "direct taxes" and "capitation and other
direct taxes" are satisfied.'
"The views expressed in this case are adopted by Chancellor
Kent and Justice Story, in their examination of the subject.
Duties are defined by Tomlin to be things due and recoverable
by law. The term, in its widest signification, is haFdly less
It is applied, in its most recomprehensive than 'taxes.'
stricted meaning, to customs ; and in that seise is nearly the
synonym of 'imposts.'
"Impost is a duty on imported goods and merchandise. In
a larger sense, it is any tax or imposition. Cowell says it is
distinguished from custom, ' because custom is rather the profit
which the prince makes on goods shipped out.' Mr. Madison
considered the terms ' duties' and 'imposts' in these clauses as
synonymous. Judge Tucker thought 'they were probably
intended to comprehend every species of tax or contribution
not included under the ordinary terms, "taxes and excises." '
"Excise is defined to be an inland imposition, sometimes
upon the consumption of the commodity, and sometimes upon
the retail sale; sometimes upon the manufacturer, and sometimes upon the vendor.
"The taxing power is given in the most comprehensive terms.
The only limitations imposed are: That direct taxes, including the capitation tax, shall be apportioned; that duties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform; and that no duties shall
be imposed upon articles exported from any State. With
these exceptions, the exercise of the power is, in all respects,
unfettered.
"If a tax upon carriages, kept for his own use by the owner,
is not a direct tax, we can see no ground upon which a tax
upon the business of an insurance company can be held to
belong to that class of revenue charges.
"It has been held that Congress may require direct taxes to

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

be laid and collected in the Territories as well as in the
States.
"The consequences which would follow the apportionment of
the tax in question among the States and Territories of the
Union, in the manner prescribed by the Constitution, must
not be overlooked. They are very obvious. Where such corporations are numerous and rich, it might be light; where
none exist, it could not be collected; where they are few and
poor, it would fall upon them with such weight as to involve
annihilation. It cannot be supposed that the framers of the
Constitution intended that any tax should be apportioned, the
collection of which on that .principle would be attended with
such results. The consequences are fatal to the proposition.
"To the question under consideration it must be answered,
that the tax to which it relates is not a direct tax, but a duty
or excise; that it was obligatory on the plaintiff to pay it.
"The other questions certified-up are deemed to be sufficiently
answered by the answers given to the first and sixth questions."
This opinion, it seems to me, closes the door to discussion in
regard to the meaning of the word "direct" in the Constitution, and renders unnecessary a resort to the conflicting opinions of the framers, or to the theories of the economists. It
adopts that construction of the word which confines it to capitation taxes and a tax on land, and necessarily rejects the
contention that that word was to be construed in accordance
with the economic theory of shifting a tax from the shoulders
of the person upon whom it was immediately levied to those
of some other person. This decision. moreover, is of great
importance because it is an authoritative r'eaffirmance of the
llylon case, and an approval of the suggestions there made
by the justices, and constitutes another sanction given by this
court to the interpretation of the Constitution adopted by the
legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the government, and thereafter continuously acted upon.
Not long thereafter, in Yeazie Bank v. Ffenno, 8 Wall. 533,
541, 546, the question of the application of the word "dire c t"
was again submitted to this court. The issue there was whether
a tax on the circulation of state banks was "direct" within

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

631

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

the meaning of the Constitution. It was ably argued by the
most distinguished counsel; Reverdy Johnson and Caleb Cushing representing the bank, and Attorney General Hoar the
United States. The brief of M2r. Cushing again presented
nearly every point now urged upon our consideration. It
cited copiously from the opinions of Adam Smith and others.
The constitutionality of the tax was maintained by the government on the ground that the meaning of the word "direct"
in the Constitution, as interpreted by the Iylton case, as enforced by the continuous legislative construction, and as sanctioned by the consensus of opinion already referred to, was
finally settled. Those who assailed the tax there urged, as is
done here, that the Htylton case was not conclusive, because
the only question decided was the particular matter at issue,
and insisted that the suggestions of the judges were mere dicta,
and not to be followed. They said that ilylton v. United
States adjudged one point alone, which was that a tax on a
carriage was not a direct tax, and that from the utterances
of the judges in the case it was obvious that the general question of what was a direct tax was but crudely considered. Thus
the argument there presented to this court the very view of
the Hylton case which has been reiterated in the argument
here, and which is sustained now. What did this court say
then, speaking through Chief Justice Chase, as to these arguments? I take very fully from its opinion:
"Much diversity of opinion has always prevailed upon the
question, what are direct taxes? Attempts to answer it by
reference to the definitions of political economists have been
frequently made, but without satisfactory results. The enumeration of the different kinds of taxes which Congress was
authorized to impose was probably made with very little
reference to their speculations. The great work of Adam
Smith, the first comprehensive treatise on political economy
in the English language, had then been recently published;
but in this work, though there are passages which refer to the
characteristic difference between direct and indirect taxation,
there is nothing which affords any valuable light on the use
of the words 'direct taxes ' in the Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM. 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

"We are obliged, therefore, to resort to historical evidence,
and to seek the meaning of the words in the use and in the
opinion of those whose relations to the government, and means
of knowledge, warranted them in speaking with authority.
"And considered in this light, the meaning and application
of the rule, as to direct taxes, appears to us quite clear.
" It is, as we think, distinctly shown in every act of Congress
on the subject.
"In each of these acts, a gross sum was laid upon the United
States, and the total amount was apportioned to the several
States according to their respective numbers of inhabitants, as
ascertained by the last preceding census. Having been apportioned, provision was made for the imposition of the tax
upon the subjects specified in the act, fixing its total sum.
"In 1798, when the first direct tax was imposed, the total
amount was fixed at two millions of dollars; in 1813, the
amount of the second direct tax was fixed at three millions;
in 1815, the amount of the third at six millions, and it made
an annual tax; in 1816, the provision making the tax annual
was repealed by the repeal of the first section of the act of
1815, and the total amount was fixed for that year at three
millions of dollars. No other direct tax was imposed until
1861, when a direct tax of twenty millions of dollars was laid
and made annual; but the provision making it annual was
suspended, and no tax, except that first laid, was ever apportioned. In each instance, the total sum was apportioned
among the States, by the constitutional rule, and was assessed
at prescribed rates on the subjects of the tax. These subjects,
in 1798, 1813, 1815, 1816, were lands, improvements, dwelling
houses, and slaves, and in 1861 lands, improvements, and dwelling houses only. Under the act of 1798 slaves were assessed
at fifty cents on each; under the other acts, according to valuation by assessors.
"This review shows that personal property, contracts, occupations, and the like have never been regarded by Congress as
proper subjects of direct tax. It has been supposed that slaves
must be considered as an exception to this observation. But
the exception is rather apparent than real. As persons, slaves

POLLOCK v. FARAIERS' LOANL

& TRUST CO.

633

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

were proper subjects of a capitation tax, which is described in
the Constitution as a direct tax; as property they were, by
the laws of some, if not most, of the States classed as real
property, descendible to heirs. Under the first view they
would be subject to the tax of 1798, as a capitation tax;
under the latter, they would be subject to the taxation of the
other years as realty. That the latter view was that taken
by the framers of the acts, after 1798, becomes highly probable, when it is considered that, in the States where slaves
were held, much of the value which would otherwise have attached to land passed into the slaves. If, indeed, the land only
had been valued without the slaves, the land would have been
subject to much heavier proportional imposition in those States
than in States where there were no slaves; for the proportion
of tax imposed on each State was determined by population,
without reference to the subjects on which it was to be assessed.
"The fact, then, that slaves were valued, under the acts
referred to, far from showing, as some have supposed, that
Congress regarded personal property as a proper object of
direct taxation under the Constitution, shows only that Congress, after 1798, regarded slaves, for the purposes of taxation,
as realty.
"It may be rightly affirmed, therefore, that in the practical
construction of the Constitution by Congress direct taxes have
been limited to taxes on land and appurtenances and taxes on
polls or capitation taxes.
" And this construction is entitled to great consideration,
especially in the absence of anything adverse to it in the
discussions of the convention which framed and of the conventions which ratified the Constitution. .
"This view received the sanction of this conrt two years
before the enactment of the first law imposing direct taxes
eo nomine."
The court then reviews the Hylton case, repudiates the
attack made upon it, reaffirms the construction placed on it
by the legislative, executive, and judicial departments, and
expressly adheres to the ruling in the insurance company case,
to which I have referred. Summing up, it said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

"It follows necessarily that the power to tax without
apportionment extends to all other objects. Taxes on other
objects are included under the heads of taxes not direct, duties,
imposts, and excises, and must be laid and collected by the
rule of uniformity. The tax under consideration is a tax on
bank circulation, and may very well be classed under the
head of duties. Certainly it is not, in the sense of the Constitution, a direct tax. It may be said tp come within the same
category of taxation as the tax on incomes of insurance companies, which this court, at the last term, in the case of
Paofc Inszrance Company v. Sode, held not to be a direct
tax."
This case was, so far as the question of direct taxation is
concerned, decided by an undivided court; for, although Mr.
Justice Nelson dissented from the opinion, it was not on the
ground that the tax was a direct tax, but on another question.
Some years after this decision the matter again came here
for adjudication, in the case of Scholey v. Rew, 23 Wall. 331,
346. The issue there involved was the validity of a tax placed
by a United States statute on the right to take real estate by
inheritance. The collection of the tax was resisted on the
ground that it was direct. The brief expressly urged this
contention, and said the tax in question was a tax on land, if
ever there was one. It discussed the ilylton case, referred
to the language used by the various judges, and sought to
place upon it the construction which we are now urged to
give it, and which has been so often rejected by this court.
This court again by its unanimous judgment answered all
these contentions. I quote its language:
"Support to the first objection is attempted to be drawn
from that clause of the Constitution which provides that
direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several States
which may be included within the Union. according to their
respective numbers; and also from the clause which provides
that no capitation or other direct tax shall be laid unless in
proportion to the census or amended enumeration; but it is
clear that the tax or duty levied by the act under consideration is not a direct tax within the meaning of either of those

POLLOCK v. FARIMERS' LOAN & 'TRUST CO.

635

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

provisions. Instead of that it is plainly an excise tax or duty,
authorized by section eight of article one, which vests the
power in Congress to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts,
and excises, to pay the debts, and provide for the common
defence and general welfare.
"Indirect taxes, such as duties of impost and excises and
every other description of the same, must be uniform, and
direct taxes must be laid in proportion to the census or
enumeration as remodelled in the Fourteenth Amendment.
Taxes on lands, houses, and other permanent real estate have
always been deemed to be direct taxes, and capitation taxes,
by the express words of the Constitution, are within the
same category, but it never has been decided that any
other legal exactions for the support of the Federal government fall within the condition that unless laid in proportion
to numbers the assessment is invalid.
"Whether direct taxes, in the sense of the Constitution,
comprehend any other tax than a capitation tax and a tax on
land is a question not absolutely decided, nor is it necessary to
determine it in the present case, as it is expressly decided that
the term does not include the tax on income which cannot be
distinguished in principle from a succession tax such as the
one involved in the present controversy."
What language could more clearly and forcibly reaffirm
the previous rulings of the court upon this subject? What
stronger endorsement could be given to the construction of
the Constitution, which had been given in the IBylton case,
and which had been adopted and adhered to by all branches
of the government, almost from the hour of its establishment?
It is worthy of note that the court here treated the decision
in the Hyton case as conveying'the view that.the only direct
taxes were "taxes on land and appurtenance." In so doing
it necessarily again adopted the suggestion of the justices
there made, thus making them the adjudged conclusions of this
court. It is too late now to destroy the force of the opinions
in that case by qualifying them as mere dicta when they
have again and again been expressly approved by this court.
If there were left a doubt as to what this established con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

struction is, it seems to be entirely removed by the case of
Springer v. United States, 102 U. S. 586, 602. Springer was
assessed for an income tax on his professional earnings and on
the interest on United States bonds. He declined to pay.
lis real estate was sold in consequence. The suit involved
the validity of the tax, as a basis for the sale. Again every
question now presented was urged upon this court. The brief
of the plaintiff in error, Springer, made the most copious references to the economic writers, Continental and English. It
cited the opinions of the framers of the Constitution. It contained extracts from the journals of the convention, and marshalled the authorities in extensive and impressive array. It
reiterated the argument against the validity of an income tax
which included rentals. It is also asserted that the Hlylton case
was not authority, because the expressions of the judges, in
regard to anything except the carriage tax, were mere dicta.
The court adhered to the ruling announced in the previous
cases and held that the tax was not direct within the meaning
of the Constitution. It reexamined and answered everything
advanced here, and said, in summing up the case:
"Our conclusions are that direct taxes, within the meaning
of the Constitution, are only capitation taxes, as expressed in
that instrument, and taxes on real estate; and that the tax of
which the plaintiff in error complained is within*the category
of an excise or duty."
The facts, then, are briefly these: At the very birth of
the government a contention arose as to the meaning of the
word "direct." The controversy was determined by the
legislative and executive departments of the government.
Their action came to this court for review, and it was
approved. Every judge of this court who expressed an opinion, made use of language which clearly showed that he
thought the word "direct" in the Constitution applied only
to capitation taxes and taxes directly on land. Thereafter
the construction thus given was- accepted everywhere as
definitive. The matter came again and again to this court,
and in every case the original ruling was adhered to. The
suggestions made in the Hlylton case were adopted here, and,

POLLOCK v. FARLIERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

637

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

in the last case here decided, reviewing all the others, this
court said that direct taxes within the meaning of the Constitution were only taxes on land and capitation taxes. And
now, after a hundred years, after long-continued action by
other departments of the government, and after repeated
adjudications of this court, this interpretation is overthrown,
and the Congress is declared not to have a power of taxation
which may at some time, as it has in the past, prove necessary to the very existence of the government. By what
process of reasoning is this to be done? By resort to theories, in order to construe the word "direct" in its economic
sense, instead of in accordance with its meaning in the Constitution, when the very result of the history which I have
thus briefly recounted is to show that the economic construction of the word was repudiated by the framers themselves, and has been time and time again rejected by this
court; by a resort to the language of the framers and a
review of their opinions, although the facts plainly show that
they themselves settled the question which the court now
virtually unsettles. In view of all that has taken place and
of the many decisions of this court, the matter at issue here
ought to be regarded as closed forever.
The injustice and harm which must always result from
overthrowing a long and settled practice sanctioned by the
decisions of this court, could not be better illustrated than
by the example which this case affords. Under the income
tax laws which prevailed in the past for many years, and
which covered every conceivable source of income, rentals
from real estate, and everything else, vast sums were collected
from the people of the United States. The decision here
rendered announces that those sums were wrongfully taken,
and thereby, it seems to me, creates a claim in equity and
good conscience against the government for an enormous
amount of money. Thus, from the change of view by this
court, it happens that an act of Congress, passed for the purpose of raising revenue, in strict conformity with the practice
of the government from the earliest time and in accordance
with the oft-repeated decisions of this court, furnishes the

OCTOBER TERM,

1894.

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

occasion for creating a claim against the government for
hundreds of millions of dollars; I say, creating a claim,
because if the government be in good conscience bound to
refund that which has been taken from the citizen in violation
of the Constitution, although the technical right may have
disappeared by lapse of time, or because the decisions of this
-court have misled the citizen to his grievous injury, the equity
endures, and will present itself to the conscience of the government. This consequence shows how necessary it is that the
court should not overthrow its past decisions. A distinguished
writer aptly points out the wrong which must result to society
from a shifting judicial interpretation. He says:
"If rules and maxims of law were to ebb and flow with
the taste of the judge, or to assume that shape which in his
fancy best becomes the times; if the decisions of one case
were not to be ruled by, or depend at all upon former determinations in other cases of a like nature, I should be glad to
know what person would venture to purchase an estate without first having the judgment of a court of justice respecting
the identical title which he means to purchase? Nro reliance
could be had upon precedents; former resolutions upon titles
of the same kind couk afford him no assurance at all. Nay,
even a decision of a court of justice upon the very identical
title would be nothing more than a precarious temporary security; the principle upon which it was founded might, in the
course of a few years become antiquated; the same title might
be again drawn into dispute; the taste and fashion of the
times might be improved, and on that ground a future judge
might hold himself at liberty (if not consider it his duty) to
pay as little regard to the maxims and decisions of his predecessor as that predecessor did to the maxims and decisions of
those who went before him." Fearne on Contingent Remainders, London ed. 1801, p. 264.
The disastrous consequences to flow from disregarding
settled decisions thus cogently described must evidently
become greatly magnified in a case like the present, when
the opinion of the court affects fundamental principles of
the government by denying an essential power of taxation

POLLOCK v. FARMVERS' LOAI{ & TRUST CO.

639

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

long conceded to exist and often exerted by Congress. If
it was necessary that the previous decisions of this court
should be repudiated, the power to amend the Constitution
existed and should have been availed of. Since the iylton case
was decided the Constitution has been repeatedly amended.
The construction which confined the word "direct" to capitation and land taxes was not changed by these amendments,
and it should not now be reversed by what seems to me to be
a judicial amendment of the Constitution.
The finding of the court in this case, that the inclusion of
rentals from real estate in an income tax makes it direct to
that extent is, in my judgment, conclusively denied by the authorities, to which I have referred, and which establish the
validity of an income tax in itself. Hence, I submit, the decision necessarily reverses the settled rule which it seemingly
adopts in part. Can there be serious doubt that the question
of the validity of an income tax, in which the rentals of real
estate are included, is covered by the decisions which say that
an income tax is generically indirect, and that therefore it is
valid without apportionment? I mean, of course, could there be
any such doubt were it not for the present opinion of the court?
Before undertaking to answer this question I deem it necessary
to consider some arguments advanced or suggestions made.
1st. The opinions of Turgot and Smith and other economists are cited, and it is said their views were known to the
framers of the Constitution ; and we are then referred to the
opinions of the framers themselves. The object of the collocation of these two sources of authority is to show that there
was a concurrence between them as to the meaning of the word
"direct." But, in order to reach this conclusion, we are compelled to overlook the fact that this court has always held, as
appears from the preceding cases, that the opinions of the economists threw little or no light on the interpretation of the
word "direct" as found in the Constitution. And the whole
effect of the decisions of this court is to establish the proposition that the word has a different significance in the Constitution from that which Smith and Turgot have given to it when
used in a general economic sense. Indeed, it seems to me

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

that the conclusion deduced from this line of thought itself
demonstrates its own unsoundness. What is that conclusion?
That the framers well understood the meaning of "direct."
Now, it seems evident that the framers, who well understood the meaning of this word, have themselves declared in
the most positive way that it shall not be here construed in the
sense of Smith and Turgot. The Congress which passed the
carriage-tax act was composed largely of men who had participated in framing the Constitution. That act was approved
by Washington, who had presided over the deliberations of
the convention. Certainly Washington himself, and the majority of the framers, if they well understood the sense in
which the word "direct" was used, would have declined to
adopt and approve a taxing act, which clearly violated the
provisions of the Constitution, if the word "direct" as therein
used, had the meaning which must be attached to it, if read
by the light of the theories of Turgot and Adam Smith. As
has already been noted, all the judges who expressed opinions
in the lylton case suggested that "direct," in the constitutional sense, referred only to taxes on land and capitation taxes.
Could they have possibly made this suggestion if the word
had been used as Smith and Turgot used it? It is immaterial
whether the suggestions of the judges were dicta or not.
They could not certainly have made this intimation, if they
understood the meaning of the word "direct," as being that
which it must have imported if construed according to the
writers mentioned. Take the language of Mr. Justice Paterson: ".7 neve entertained a doubt that the principal, 1 will
,ot say the only, objects"that the fr'ames of the Constitution.
eontemlpated asfalling within the rule of apportionment were
a capittation tax and a tax on land." He had borne a conspicuous part in the convention. Can we say that he understood
the meaning of the framers, and yet after the lapse of a hundred years, fritter away that language, uttered by him from
this bench in the first great case in which this court was called
It canupon to interpret the meaning of the word "direct?"
not be said that his language was used carelessly or without a
knowledge of its great import. The debate upon the passage

POLLOOK v. FARMIERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

641

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

of the carriage-tax act had manifested divergence of opinion
as to the meaning of the word "direct." The magnitude of
the issue is shown by all contemporaneous authority to have
been deeply felt and its far-reaching consequence was appreciated. Those controversies came here for settlement and were
then determined with a full knowledge of the importance of
the issues. They should not be now reopened.
The argument, then, it seems to me, reduces itself to this:
That the framers well knew the meaning of the word direct;"
that so well understanding it they practically interpreted it in
such a way as to plainly indicate that it had a sense contrary
to that now given, to it in the view adopted by the court.
Although they thus comprehended the meaning of the word
and interpreted it at an early day, their interpretation is now
to be overthrown by resorting to the economists whose construction was repudiated by them. It is thus demonstrable
that the conclusion deduced from the premise that the framers
well understood the meaning of the word "direct," involves a
fallacy. In other words, that it draws a faulty conclusion,
even if the predicate upon which the conclusion is rested be
fully admitted. But I do not admit the premise. The views
of the framers cited in the argument conclusively show that
they did not well understand, but were in great doubt as to
the meaning of the word "direct."
The use of the word was
the result of a compromise. It was accepted as the solution
of a diflficulty which threatened to frustrate the hopes of those
who looked upon the formation of a new government as absolutely necessary to escape the condition of weakness which the
Articles of Confederation had shown. Those who accepted
the compromise viewed the word in different lights and expected different results to flow from its adoption. This was
the natural result of the struggle which was terminated by
the adoption of the provision as to representation and direct
taxes. That warfare of opinion had been engendered by the
existence of slavery in some of the States, and was the consequence of the conflict of interest thus brought about. In
reaching a settlement, the minds of those who acted on it
were naturally concerned in the main with the cause of the
VOL. cL-iv-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

contention and not with the other things, which had been previously settled by the convention. Thus, whilst there was in
all probability clearness of vision as to the meaning of the
word "direct," in relation to its bearing on slave property,
there was inattention in regard to other things, and there were,
therefore, diverse opinions as to its proper signification. That
such was the case in regard to many other clauses of the Constitution has been shown to be the case by those great controversies of the past which have been peacefully settled by the
adjudications of this court. Whilst this difference undoubtedly
existed, as to the effect to be given the word "direct," the consensus of the majority of the framers as to its meaning was
shown by the passage of the carriage-tax act. That consensus
found adequate expression in the opinions of the justices in
the Hylton case, and in the decree of this court there rendered.
The passage of that act, those opinions and that decree, settled
the proposition that the word applied only to capitation taxes
and taxes on land.
Nor does the fact that there was difference in the minds of
the framers as to the meaning of the word "direct" weaken
the binding force of the interpretation placed upon that word
from the beginning. For, if such difference existed, it is
certainly sound to hold that a contemporaneous solution of a
doubtful question, which has been often confirmed by this
court, should not now be reversed. The framers of the Constitution, the members of the earliest Congress, the illustrious
man first called to the office of Chief Executive, the jurists
who first sat in this court, two of whom had borne a great
part in the labors of the convention, all of whom dealt with
this doubtful question, surely occupied a higher vantage
ground for its correct solution than do those of our day. Here
then is the dilemma: if the framers understood the meaning
of the word "direct" in the Constitution, the practical effect
which they gave to it should remain undisturbed; if they
were in doubt as to the meaning, the interpretation long since
authoritatively affixed to it should be upheld.
2d. Nor do I think any light is thrown upon the question
of whether the tax here under consideration is direct or indi-

POLLOCK v. FARMERS'

LOAN & TRUST CO.

643

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

rect, by referring to the principle of "taxation without representation," and the great struggle of our forefathers for its
enforcement. It cannot be said that the Congress which passed
this act was not the representative body fixed by the Constitution. Nor can it be contended that the struggle for the
enforcement of the principle involved the contention that representation should be in exact proportion to the wealth taxed.
If the argument be used in order to draw the inference that,
because in this instance, the indirect tax imposed will operate
differently through various sections of the country, therefore
that tax should be treated as direct, it seems to me it is unsound.
The right to tax, and not the effects which may follow from
its lawful exercise, is the only judicial question which this court
is called upon to consider. If an indirect tax, which the
Constitution has not subjected to the rule of apportionment,
is to be held to be a direct tax, because it will bear upon
aggregations of property in different sections of the country,
according to the extent of such aggregations, then the power
is denied to Congress to do that which the Constitution authorizes, because the exercise of a lawful power is supposed to
work out a result which, in the opinion of the court, was not
contemplated by the fathers. If this be sound, then every
question which has been determined in our past history is now
still open for judicial reconstruction. The justness of tariff
legislation has turned upon the assertion on the one hand, denied on the other, that it operated unequally on the inhabitants
of different sections of the country. Those who opposed such
legislation have always contended that its necessary effect was
not only to put the whole burden upon one section, but also to
directly enrich certain of our citizens at the expense of the rest,
and thus build up great fortunes to the benefit of the few and
the detriment of the many. Whether this economic contention be true or untrue is not the question. Of course, I intimate no view on the subject. Will it be said that if to-morrow
the personnel of this court should be changed, it could deny
the power to enact tariff legislation which has been admitted
to exist in Congress from the beginning, upon the ground that
such legislation beneficially affects one section or set of people

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

to the detriment of others, within the spirit of the- Constitution, and therefore constitutes a direct tax ?
3d. Nor, in my judgment, does any force result from the
argument that the framers expected direct taxes to be rarely resorted to, and, as the present tax was imposed without public
necessity, it should be declared void.
It seems to me that this statement begs the whole question,
for it assumes that the act now before us levies a direct tax,
whereas the question whether the tax is direct or not is the
very issue involved in this case. If Congress now deems it
advisable to resort to certain forms of indirect taxation which
have been frequently, though not continuously, availed of
in the past, I cannot see that its so doing affords any reason
for converting an indirect into a direct tax in order to nullify
the legislative will. The policy of any particular method of
taxation, or the presence of an exigency which requires its
adoption, is a purely legislative question. It seems to me that
it violates the elementary distinction between the two departments of the government to allow an opinion of this court
upon the necessity or expediency of a tax to affect or control
our determination of the existence of the power to impose it.
But I pass from these considerations to approach the question whether the inclusion of rentals from real estate in an income tax renders such a tax to that extent "direct" under the
Constitution, because it constitutes the imposition of a direct
tax on the land itself.
Does the inclusion of the rentalsfrom 'realestate in the sum
going to make up the aggregate income from which (in order to
arrive at taxable income) is to be deducted insurance,repairs,
losses in business, andfour thousand dollars exemption, make
the tax on income so ascertained a direct tax on such real
estate ?

In answering this question we must necessarily accept the
interpretation of the word "direct" authoritatively given by
the history of the government and the decisions of this court
just cited. To adopt that interpretation for the general purposes of an income tax, and then repudiate it because of one
of the elements of which it is composed, would violate every

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

645

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

elementary rule of construction.

So, also, to seemingly accept

that interpretation and then resort to the framers and the
economists in order to limit its application and give it a
different significance is equivalent to its destruction and
amounts to repudiating it without directly doing so. Under
the settled interpretation of the word we ascertain whether
a tax be direct or not by considering whether it is a tax on
land or a capitation tax. And the tax on land, to be within
the provision for apportionment, must be direct. Therefore
we have two things to take into account: is it a tax on land
and is it direct thereon or so immediately on the land as to be
equivalent to a direct levy upon it? To say that any burden
on land, even though indirect, must be apportioned is not only
to incorporate a new provision in the Constitution, but is also
to obliterate all the decisions to which I have referred, by
construing them as holding that although the Constitution
forbids only a direct tax on land without apportionment, it
must be so interpreted as to bring an indirect tax on land
within its inhibition.
It is said that a tax on the rentals is a tax on the land, as if
the act here under consideration imposed an immediate tax
on the rentals. This statement, I submit, is a misconception
of the issue. The point involved is whether a tax on net
income, when such income is made up by aggregating all
sources of revenue and deducting repairs, insurance, losses in
business, exemptions, etc., becomes to the extent to which real
estate revenues" may have entered into the gross income, a
direct tax on the land itself. In other words, does that which
reaches an income, and thereby reaches rentals indirectly, and
reaches the land by a double indirection, amount to direct levy
on the land itself? It seems to me the question when thus
accurately stated furnishes its own negative response. Indeed,
I do not see how the issue can be stated precisely and logically without making it apparent on its face that the inclusion
of rental from real property in income is nothing more than
an indirect tax upon the land.
It must be borne in mind that we are dealing not with the
want of power in Congress to assess real estate at all; on

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

the contrary, as I have shown at the outset, Congress has
plenary power to reach real estate both directly and indirectly.
If it taxes real estate directly, the Constitution commands
that such direct imposition shall be apportioned. But because
an excise or other indirect tax, imposed without apportionment, has an indirect effect upon real estate, no violation of
the Constitution is committed, because the Constitution has
left Congress untrammelled by any rule of apportionment as
to indirect taxes - imposts, duties, and excises. The opinions
in the Hylton case, so often approved and reiterated, the
unanimous views of the text-writers, all show that a tax on
land, to be direct, must be an assessment of the land itself,
either by quantity or valuation. HKere there is no such assessment. It is well also to bear in mind, in considering whether
the tax is direct on the land, the fact that if land yields no
rental it contributes nothing to the income. If it is vacant,
the law does not force the owner to add the rental value to
his taxable income. And so it is if he occupies it himself.
The citation made by counsel from Coke on Littleton,
upon which so much stress is laid, seems to me to have no relevancy. The fact that where one delivers or agrees to give
or transfer land with all the fruits and revenues, it will be
presumed to be a conveyance of the land, in no way supports
the proposition that an indirect tax on the rental of land is a
direct burden on the land itself.
Nor can I see the application of Brown v. .Maryland,12
Wheat. 419; Mestom v. Oharleston,2 Pet. 449; Dobbins v. Erie
County Commissioners, 16 Pet. 435; Almy v. California,24
How. 169; Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566; Railroad
Co. v. Jackson, 7 Wall. 262; Philadel7p)hia &o. Steamship Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; Zelozp v. Mobile, 127 U. S.
640; Postal Telegraph Co. v. Adams, 165 U. S. 688. All these
cases involve the question whether, under the Constitution, if
no power existed to tax at all, either directly or indirectly, an
indirect tax would be unconstitutional. These cases would be
apposite to this if Congress had no power to tax real estate.
Were such the case, it might be that the imposition of an excise by Congress which reached real estate indirectly would

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

64:7

Dissenting Opinion, White, Harlan, JJ.

necessarily violate the Constitution, because as it had no power
in the premises, every attempt to tax direct or indirectly would
be null. Here, on the contrary, it is not denied that the
power to tax exists in Congress, but the question is, is the tax
direct or indirect in the constitutional sense?
But it is unnecessary to follow the argument further; for, if
I understand the opinions of this court already referred to,
they absolutely settle the proposition that an inclusion of the
rentals of real estate in an income tax does not violate the
Constitution. At the risk of repetition, I propose to go over
the cases again for the purpose of demonstrating this. In
doing so, let it be understood at the outset that I do not question the authority of Cohens v. Virginia, or Carroll v. -Lessee
of Carroll,or any other of the cases referred to in argument
of counsel. These great opinions hold that an adjudication
need not be extended beyond the principles which it decides.
Whilst conceding this, it is submitted that, if decided cases do
directly, affirmatively, and necessarily, in principle, adjudicate
the very question here involved, then under the very text of
the opinions referred to by the court, they should conclude
this question. In the first case, that of Hylton, is there any
possibility by the subtlest ingenuity to reconcile the decision
here announced with what was there established?
In the second case, Insurance Company v. Soule, the levy
was upon the company, its premiums, its dividends, and net
gains from all sources. The case was certified to this court,
and the statement made by the judges in explanation of the
question which they propounded says: -"The amount of said
premiums, dividends, and net gains were truly stated in said
lists or returns." Original Record, p. 27.
It will thus be seen that the issue there presented was not
whether an income tax on business gains was valid, but
whether an income tax on gains from business and all other
net gains was constitutional. Under this state of facts the
question put to the court was: "Whether the taxes paid by
the plaintiff, and sought to be recovered back, in this action,
are not direct taxes within the meaning of the Constitution
of the United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

This tax covered revenue of every possible nature, and it
therefore appears self-evident that the court could not have
upheld the statute without deciding that the income derived
from realty, as well as that derived from every other source,
might be taxed without apportionment. It is obvious that
if the court had considered that any particular subject-matter
which the statute reached was not constitutionally included,
it would have been obliged by every rule of safe judicial conduct to qualify its answer as to this particular subject.
It is impossible for me to conceive that the court did not
embrace in its ruling the constitutionality of an income tax
which included rentals from real estate, since, without passing upon that question, it could not have decided the issue
presented. And another reason why it is logically impossible that this question of the validity of the inclusion of the
rental of real estate in an income tax could have been overlooked by the court is found in the fact to which I could
have already adverted, that this was one of the principal
points urged upon its attention, and the argument covered all
the ground which has been occupied here-indeed, the very
citation from Coke upon Littleton, now urged as conclusive,
was there made also in the brief of counsel. And although
the return of income involved in that case was made "in
block," the very fact that the burden of the argument was
that to include rentals from real estate, in income subject to
taxation, made such tax pro tanto direct, seems to me to
indicate that such rentals had entered into the return made
by the corporation.
Again, in the case of Slohley v. ]ew, the tax in question
was laid directly on the right to take real estate by inheritance, a right which the United States had no power to control.
The case could not have been decided, in any point of view,
without holding a tax upon that right was not direct, and
that, therefore, it could be levied without apportionment. It
is manifest that the court could not have overlooked the
question whether this was a direct tax on the land or not,
because in the argument of counsel it was said, if there was
any tax in the world that was a tax on real estate which was

POLLOCK v. FARMERS'

LOAN & TRUST CO. 649

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

direct, that was the one. The court said it was not, and
sustained the law. I repeat that the tax there was put directly
uponthe right to inherit, which Congress had no power to
regulate or control. The case was therefore greatly stronger
than that here presented, for Congress has a right to tax
real estate directly with apportionment.' That decision cannot
be explained away by saying that the court overlooked the
fact that Congress had no power to tax the devolution of
real estate, and treated it as a tax on such devolution. Will
it be said of the distinguished men who then adorned this
bench, that although the argument was pressed upon them
that this tax was levied directly on the real estate, they
ignored the elementary principle that the control of the
inheritance of realty is a state and not a Federal function?
But even if the case proceeded upon the theory that the tax
was on the devolution of the real estate and was therefore
not direct, is it not absolutely decisive of this controversy?
If to put a burden of taxation on the right to take real estate
by inheritance reaches realty only by indirection, how can it
be said that a tax on the income, the result of all sources of
revenue, including rentals, after deducting losses and expenses,
which thus reaches the rentals indirectly, and the real estate
indirectly through the rentals, is a direct tax on the real estate
itself?
So, it is manifest in the Springer case that the same question was necessarily decided. It seems obvious that the court
intended in that case to decide the whole question, including
the right to tax rental from real estate without apportionment. It was elaborately and carefully argued there that as
the law included the rentals of land in the income taxed, and
such inclusion was unconstitutional, this, therefore, destroyed
that part of the law which imposed the tax on the revenues
of personal property. Will it be said, in view of the fact
that in this very case four of the judges of this court think
that the inclusion of the rentals from real estate in an income
tax renders the whole law invalid, that the question of the
inclusion of rentals was of no moment there, because the
return there did not contain a mention of such rentals? Were

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

the great judges who then composed this court so neglectful
that they did not see the importance of a. question which is
now considered by some of its members so vital that the
result in their opinion is to annul the whole law, more especially when that question was pressed upon the court in argument with all possible vigor and earnestness . But I think
that the opinion in the Springer case clearly shows that the
court did consider this question of importance, that it did
intend to pass upon it, and that it deemed that it had decided
all the questions affecting the validity of an income tax in
passing upon the main issue, which included the others as the
greater includes the less.
I can discover no principle upon which these cases can be
considered as any less conclusive of the right to include
rentals of land in the concrete result, income, than they are
as to the right to levy a general income tax. Certainly, the
decisions which hold that an income tax as such is not direct,
decide on principle that to include the rentals of real estate
in an income tax does not make it direct. If embracing
rentals in income makes a tax on income to that extent a
direct tax on the land, then the same word, in the same sentence of the Constitution, has two wholly distinct constitutional meanings, and signifies one thing when applied to an
income tax generally, and a different thing when applied to
the portion of such a tax made up in part of rentals. That
is to say, the word means one thing when applied to the
greater and another when applied to the lesser tax.
My inability to agree with the court in the conclusions
which it has just expressed causes me much regret. Great
as is my respect for any view by it announced, I cannot resist
the conviction that its opinion and decree in this case virtually annuls its previous decisions in regard to the powers of
Congress on the subject of taxation, and is therefore fraught
with danger to the court, to each and every citizen, and to
the republic. The conservation and orderly development of
our institutions rests on our acceptance of the results of the
past, and their use as lights to guide our steps in the future.
Teach the lesson that settled principles may be overthrown

POLLOCK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

651

Dissenting Opinion: White, Harlan, JJ.

at any time, and confusion and turmoil must ultimately
result. In the discharge of its function of interpreting the
Constitution, this court exercises an august power. It sits
removed, from the contentions of political parties and the
animosities of factions. It seems to me that the accomplishment of its lofty mission can only be secured by the stability
of its teachings and the sanctity which surrounds them. If
the permanency of its conclusions is to depend upon the personal opinions of those who, from time to time, may make
up its membership, it will inevitably become a theatre of
political strife, and its action will be without coherence or
consistency. There is no great principle of our constitutional
law, such as the nature and extent of the commerce power,
or the currency power, or other powers of the Federal
government, which has not been ultimately defined by the
adjudications of this court after long and earnest struggle.
If we are to go back to the original sources of our political
system, or are to' appeal to the writings of the economists in
order to unsettle all these great principles, everything is lost
and nothing saved to the people. The rights of every individual are guaranteed by the safeguards which have been
thrown around them by our adjudications. If these are to
be assailed and overthrown, as is the settled law of income
taxation by this opinion, as I understand it, the rights of
property, so far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, are
of little worth. My strong convictions forbid that I take
part in a conclusion which seems to me so full of peril to the
country. I am unwilling to do so, without reference to the
question of what my personal opinion upon the subject might
be if the question were a new one, and was thus unaffected
by the action of the framers, the history of the government,
and the long line of decisions by this court. The wisdom of
our forefathers in adopting a written Constitution has often
been impeached upon the theory that the interpretation of a
written instrument did not afford as complete protection to
liberty as would be enjoyed under a Constitution made up of
the traditions of a free people. Writing, it has been said,
does not insure greater stability than tradition does, while it

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

destroys flexibility. The answer has always been that by the
foresight of the fathers the construction of our written Constitution was ultimately confided to this body, which, from
the nature of its judicial structure, could always be relied
upon to act with perfect freedom from the influence of faction and to preserve the benefits of consistent interpretation.
The fundamental conception of a judicial body is that of one
hedged about by precedents, which are binding on the court
without regard to the personality of its members. Break
down this belief in judicial continuity, and let it be felt that
on great constitutional questions this court is to depart from
the settled conclusions of its predecessors, and to determine
them all according to the mere opinion of those who temporarily fill its bench, and our Constitution will, in my
judgment, be bereft of value and become a most dangerous
instrument to the rights and liberties of the people.
In regard to the right to include in an income tax the
interest upon the bonds of municipal corporations, I think the
decisions of this court, holding that the Federal government
is without power to tax the agencies of the state government,
embrace such bonds, and that this settled line of authority is
conclusive upon my judgment here. It determines the question that where there is no power to tax for any purpose
whatever, no direct or indirect tax can be imposed. The
authorities cited in the opinion are decisive of this question.
They are relevant to one case and not to the other, because,
in the one case, there is full power in the Federal government to tax, the only controversy being whether the tax
imposed is direct or indirect; while in the other there is no
power whatever in the Federal government, and, therefore,
the levy, whether direct or indirect, is beyond the taxing
power.
Mr. Justice Hlarlan authorizes me to say that he concurs
in the views herein expressed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN further dissenting.
I concur so entirely in the general views expressed by Mr.
Justice White in reference to the questions disposed of by the

POLLOOK v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

65g

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

opinion and judgment of the majority, that I will do no more
than indicate, without argument, the conclusions reached by
me after much consideration. Thbse conclusions are:
1. Giving due effect to the statutory provision that "no suit
for the purpose of restraining the assessment or collection of
any tax shall be maintained in any court," Rev. Stat.  3224,
the decree below dismissing the bill should be affirmed. As
the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company could not itself maintain a suit to restrain either the assessment or collection of the
tax imposed by the act of Congress, the maintenance of a suit
by a stockholder to restrain that corporation and its directors
from voluntarily paying such tax would tend to defeat the
manifest object of the statute, and be an evasion of its provisions. Congress intended to forbid the issuing of any process
that would interfere in anywise with the prompt collection of
the taxes imposed. The present suits are mere devices to
strike down a general revenue law by decrees, to which neither
the government nor any officer of the United States could be
rightfully made parties of record.
2. Upon principle, and under the doctrines announced by
this court in numerous cases, a duty upon the gains, profits,
and income derived from the rents of land is not a "direct"
tax on such land witliin the meaning of the constitutional provisions requiring capitation or other direct taxes to be apportioned among the several States, according to their respective
numbers determined in the mode prescribed by that instrument.
Such a duty may be imposed by Congress without apportioning
the same among the States according to population.
3. While property, and the gains, profits, and income derived from property, belonging to private corporations and
individuals, are subjects of taxation for the purpose of paying
the debts and providing for the common defence and the
general welfare of the United States, the instrumentalities
employed by the States in execution of their powers are not
subjects of taxation by the general government, any more
than the instrumentalities of the United States are the subjects
of taxation by the States; and any tax imposed directly upon
interest derived from bonds issued by a municipal corporation

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

for public purposes, under the authority of the State whose
instrumentality it is, is a burden upon the exercise of the
powers of that corporation'which only the State creating it
may impose. In such a case it is immaterial to inquire
whether the tax is, in its nature or by its operation, a direct
or an indirect tax; for the instrumentalities of the Statesamong which, as is well settled, are municipal corporations,
exercising powers and holding property for the benefit of the
public- are not subjects of national taxation, in any form or
for any purpose, while the property of private corporations
and of individuals is subject to taxation by the general government for national purposes. So it has been frequently adjudged, and the question is no longer an open one in this
court.
Upon the several questions about which the members of this
court are equally divided in opinion, I deem it appropriate to
withhold any expression of my views, because the opinion of
the Chief Justice is silent in regard to those questions.

HYD

V. CONTIxExTAL

TRUST

COMPANY.

Yo.

894.

Appeal

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York.
Tim, CHIEF JUSTICE: This case differs in no essential respect
from that just decided, and must be disposed of in the same way.
Decree according7y.
The opinion of MR. JUsTIcE FIELD was entitled in this case as
well as in Pollock v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Company.
MR. JUSTIcE WHITE and MNR. JUSTWcE HARLAN dissented from
the decree in this cas.e for the reasons given in their dissenting
opinions in Pollock v. Farmers' Loan and Trst Company.

