CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD CO. v. PONTIUS.

209

Statement of the Case.

As to the second cause of action, the sum sued for was
under the jurisdictional amount.
The result is that, in each case, both questions certifled must
be answered in the negative.

CHICAGO,

KANSAS AND WESTERN
COMPANY v. PONTIUS.

RAILROAD

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 716.Submitted March 4, 1695.-

Decided March 18, 1895.

A bridge carpenter, employed by a railroad company who is injured through
the negligence of employfs of the company while assisting in unloading
lumber, taken from an old bridge, on a car for transportation over the
road, is an employ6 of the company within the meaning of ยง 93, c. 23,
of the General Statutes of Kansas which makes railroad companies in
that State liable to its employ~s for damage done them through the
negligence of its agents or the mismanagement of its employ~s.

MOTION to dismiss or affirm.
Pontius brought an action against the railroad company in
the District Court of Dickinson County, Kansas, to recover for
injuries sustained by him while in the employment of the company, and obtained judgment for $2000. The case was taken
on error to the Supreme Court of the State and the judgment
affirmed, whereupon a writ of error was allowed from this court,
and, the cause having been docketed, a motion to dismiss the
writ or affirm the judgment was submitted.
In the opinion of the Supreme Court of Kansas, reported 52
Kansas, 264, the case is stated thus: "Clifford R. Pontius was
employed by the defendant company as a bridge carpenter
and worked in that capacity at various points on the line of
defendant's road. A bridge was constructed across the Verdigris River, in Greenwood County. The false work used for
support in its construction was taken down, and the timbers of
which it was composed were hoisted and loaded into cars on
the bridge to be transported to some other point on defendant's
VOL. CLVf-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

road. The timbers were muddy and slippery. The mode of
hoisting them was to attach a rope or chain to the timbers,
and to raise them by means of a pile driver. When a stick
was raised to a sufficient height, a rope was thrown around
the lower end of it, and a number of men, of whom plaintiff was one, would pull it out on the car. A chain had
been used on the end of the rope to hold timbers which
were being hoisted, and several pieces had been raised in
that way. The chain, however, was thrown aside, and one
piece was raised with the rope. When the men undertook to
pull it back on the car, the rope slipped off, the timber fell
and caused the injury, for which the plaintiff sues."
.Mr. John 1. .Mahamfor the motion to dismiss or affirm.
.31r. George R. Peck, .Mi. A.
B'rowne opposing.
Mnz.

CEr

T'. Britton, and 31'r. A. B.

J UsTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Section 93, chapter 23, of the General Statutes of Kansas,
(Gen. Stat. Kas. 1889, vol. 1, p. 415,) provides: "Every railroad company organized or doing business in this State shall
be liable for all damages done to any employ6 of such company in consequence of any negligence of its agents, or by any
mismanagement of its engineers or other employ6s to any
persons sustaining such damaoe."
In -Uio. Pao. Railway Co. v. Mackey, 33 Kansas, 298, the
validity of this law was drawn in question on the ground of
repugnancy to the Constitution of the United States and its
validity sustained. The case was brought here on error and the
judgment of the state court affirmed. _Mo. Pa. Railway Co.
v. M3lackey, 127 U. S. 205. As to the objection that the law
deprived railroad companies of the equal protection of the
laws, and so infringed the Fourteenth Amendment, this court
held that legislation which was special in its character was
not necessarily within the constitutional inhibition, if the same
rule was applied under the same circumstances and conditions;

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD CQ. v. PONTIUS.

211

Opinion of the Court.

that the hazardous character of the business of operating a
railroad seemed to call for special legislation with respect to
railroad corporations, having for its object the protection of
their employes as well as the safety of the public; that the
business of other corporations was not subject to similar dangers to their employ~s, and that such legislation could not be
objected to on the ground of making an unjust discrimination since it met a particular necessity and all railroad corporations were, without distinction, made subject to the same
liabilities.
It is now contended that the plaintiff was a bridge builder;
that the legislation only applied to employ~s exposed to the
peculiar hazards incident to the use and operation of railroads;
that the railroad company could not be subjected to any
greater liability to its employes who were engaged in building
its bridges than any other private individual or corporation
engaged in the same business ; and that the statute had been
so construed in this case as to make the company liable to its
employ~s when engaged in building its bridges, notwithstanding bridge building was not accompanied, and had not been
treated by legislation as accompanied, by peculiar perils, thus
discriminating against the particular corporation irrespective
of the character of the employment, in contravention of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
But the difficulty with this argument is that the state
Supreme Court found upon the facts that, although the plaintiff's general employment was that of a bridge carpenter, he
was engaged at the time the accident occurred, not in building
a bridge but in loading timbers on a car for transportation
over the line of defendant's road; and Missou'i Pacific Co.
v. -Haley, 25 Kansas, 35; Union Pacifio _Railway v. Earris,
33 Kansas, 416; and Atchison, Topeka &c. Ri~ailroad Co. v.
Koehler, 37 Kansas, 463, were cited, in which cases it was
held that a person employed upon a construction train to
carry water for the men working with the train, and to gather
up tools and put them in the caboose or tool car; a section
man employed by a railroad company to repair its roadbed
and to take up old rails out of its track and put in new ones;

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

and a person injured while loading rails on a car to be taken
to other portions of the company's road, were all within the
provisions of the act in question; and the court said: "In this
case the plaintiff was injured while on a car assisting in loading timbers to be transported over the defendant's road to
some other point.. The mere fact that the plaintiff's regular employment was as a bridge carpenter does not affect the case,
nor does it matter that the road was newly constructed, nor
whether it was in regular operation or not. The injury happened to the plaintiff while he was engaged in labor directly
connected with the operation of the road, and the statute
applies even though it should be given the construction counsel places on it." And see Ohicago, Rock Island & Pacific
Railway Co. v. Stadey, 62 Fed. Rep. 363.
We concur in this view and the judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.
BAKER v. WOOD.
APPEAL FROM THE

No. 162.

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued January 21, 1895. -Decided

STATES FOR

March IS, 1895.

In determining whether the judgment plaintiff and real owner of an assigned
judgment is cstopped to assert his ownership as against a second assignee, on the ground that the second assignee occupies the position of a
purchaser for value in good faith and without notice and in reliance on
the apparent ownership, the amount of the consideration paid by him is
an important fact.
When such amount is greatly disproportionate to the true value of the
judgment, that fact may authorize the inference that the claim to have
paid value is a pretence ; and it is further important, as bearing on the
questions of notice and of good faith.
In such case the interest of the second assignee of the judgment, if recognized, should be limited to the amount he actually paid and the measure of the estoppel also limited accordingly.

THIS was a bill filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Colorado on October 23, 1886, by
Lucien Baker against E. If. iulburd, Daniel E. Parks, 1N. P.
Seeley, and Samuel N. Wood, praying that defendants Seeley,

