MORGAN v. POTTER.
Opinion of the Court.

Kendrick to have been written by him and were properly in
evidence, it was competent for the court to submit to the jury
the disputed statement, and to permit them to make a comparison and say wihether the same man wrote both papers.
The statement itself was clearly competent as bearing upon
the intent to defraud.
There was no error in the rulings of the court below, and
its judgment is, therefore,
Ajyirmed.

MORGAN v. POTTER.
CERTIFICATE

FRO31

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR

THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 690.Submitted November 19, 1S94.- Decided March 18, 1S95.

A guardian of an infant, appointed in one State, cannot maintain a suit in
the Circuit Court of the United States held within another State, to set
aside the appointment or to compel an account of a guardian previously
appointed in the latter State, except so far as authorized to do so by its
laws.
In a suit by an infant, by his next friend, the infant, and not the next
friend, must be made the plaintiff.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr.T. F. Garver for appellants.
-Mr. IWT . Rossington, J'r. B. F. Proctor,and Ab'. Charles
-BloodSmith for appellees.
MiR. JuSTIcE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill in equity, filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Kansas, by "J. E. Potter,
guardian of Robert Morgan, a resident and citizen of the State
of Kentucky and county of Warren, and Sarah Lee Williams,
as next friend of said Robert, a resident and citizen of the
same county and State," "against Henry Morgan, guardian of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

said Robert, and Jacob Campbell and M. A. Arnott, all of
whom are residents and citizens of the county of Ottawa and
State of Kansas," to set aside the appointment, by a court of
the county of Ottawa and State of Kansas, of Henry Morgan
as guardian of the estate of Robert, as having been obtained
by false and fraudulent representations that Robert's residence
was in that county and that his mother consented to the appointmnent; and to require him to account for the property of
his ward, fraudulently omitted in the inventory and accounts
filed by him in that court, and to turn over all the ward's
property to Potter as his guardian appointed in the county of
Warren and State of Kentucky; and to obtain judgment
against him, and against Campbell and Arnott as sureties
upon his guardianship bond, for the sums found due; and for
further relief.
Robert Morgan, described in the bill as "a non-resident of"
the State of Kansas, was the minor son of Joseph Morgan
and Sarah Lee Morgan, his wife, who, as the bill alleged, after
the father's death in Texas in 1883, moved with her infant son
to the State of Kansas, and thence, in October, 1886, to Warren
County in the State of Kentucky, and since continually resided there with him, and in February, 1887, was there married to one Williams, a resident of that county.
The principal defendant, Henry Morgan, was appointed
February 14, 1887, by the probate court of the county of
Ottawa in the State of Kansas, guardian of the estate of Robert
Morgan, and took an oath and gave bond as such, and afterwards filed in that court an inventory and annual accounts,
which he claimed td be true, and which were not excepted to
in that court, nor their correctness otherwise challenged by the
ward or by any one acting in his behalf ; he was not shown to
have failed or refused to comply with any order of that court
in relation to his guardianship; and, when this bill was filed,
the minor's estate was undergoing administration in that court,
and no final settlement or accounting had been had there
between the guardian and the ward. The other defendants
were the sureties on the guardianship bond.
The plaintiffs were Potter, and the mother of Robert Mor-

MORGAN v. POTTER.
Opinion of the Court.

gan. Potter sued as his guardian, appointed, as the bill
alleged, by a court of the county of Warren in the State of
Kentucky, having jurisdiction of his person and estate, with
the consent of his mother and her husband. His mother sued
as his next friend.
The case was heard in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Kansas upon pleadings and proofs,
and a decree eratered for the plaintiff. The defendants appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which made a certificate to this court, setting forth the above facts, and others
not material to be here stated, and requesting the instruction
of this court upon several questions.
The first question certified is, "Does the foregoing bill
of complaint state a case entitling the complainants named
therein, or either of them, to any form of relief in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Kansas?"
The authority of a guardian, like that of an executor or
administrator, appointed by a court of one State, is limited
to that State, and he cannot sue in a court, even of the United
States, held within any other State, except so far as authorized
to do so by its laws. Jloyt v. Sprague, 103 U. S. 613, 631;
Iamar v. Aficou, 112 U. S. 452, 470. The statutes of Kansas
do authorize executors or administrators appointed in another
State to sue and be sued as such in Kansas. Gen. Stat. of
1889, § 2989. But they confer no such general authority
upon guardians appointed in another State; and, as to them,
provide only that when, as in the present case, a minor, for
whom a guardian has been appointed in this State, removes to
another State, and a guardian of the minor is there appointed,
the guardian appointed in this State may be discharged
and required to account; but only upon application made
by the foreign guardian to the court in this State which
appointed the first guardian; and not then, unless that court is
satisfied that his discharge would be to the interest of the ward.
§§ 3248, 3249. The necessary consequence is that this bill
I Sc. 3248. When a minor for whom a guardian has been appointed in
this State shall remove to another State or Territory, and a guardian of
such infant shall be there appointed, the guardian appointed in this State

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

states no case entitling the plaintiff Potter, who sues only as a
guardian appointed in Kentucky, to any form of relief.
It is equally clear that the other plaintiff, the minor's
mother, suing as his next friend, cannot maintain this bill. As
said by Lord Somers, "An infant may by his prochein ami call
his guardian to an account." Fallandv. Bertie, 2 Vernon,
333, 342. It is the infant, and not the next friend, who is the
real and proper party. The next friend, by whom the suit is
brought on behalf of the infant, is neither technically nor
substantially the party, but resembles an attorney, or a guardian ad litem, by whom a suit is brought or defended in
behalf of another. The suit must be brought in the name of
the infant, and not in that of the next friend. Crandallv.
Slaid, 11 Met. 288; Guild v. Cranston,8 Cush. 506.
As upon this record, in the condition in which it has been
sent up, neither of the plaintiffs is entitled to maintain this
suit, the first question certified must be answered in the negative, and it becomes unnecessary to answer any of the other
questions certified.

Ordered accordingly.

MIOHELS v. OLMSTEAD.
APPEAL FROM[ THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 100.

Submitted December 4,1,94. -Decided

March 18, 1895.

If, in an action at law upon a written contract, oral evidence offered by the
defendant that the writing signed by the parties was not intended as a
contract, nor understood by either party to be binding as such, is exmay be discharged, and required to settle his account, as hereinafter
provided.
SEc. 3249. Such discharge shall not be made, unless the guardian appointed in another State or Territory shall apply to the probate court in
this State which made the former appointment, and file therein an exemplification of the record of the court making the foreign appointment containing all the entries and proceedings in relation to his appointment and
his giving of bond, with a copy thereof and of the letters of guardianship,
all authenticated as required by the act of Congress in that behalf ; and

