OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

who had served since that date. If those who served before
that date had been treated as entitled to longevity pay, the
act was wholly unnecessary, ,as there was no question that,
under the act of 1838, the officers of the regular army were
so entitled; and the extension of the same privilege to officers
of the volunteer army was evidently a new provision, and to
be restricted to those who had served as such since the breaking out of the war. It is a plain case for the application of
the maxim: Expressio unius est exclusio alterius. Had it
been shown that, prior to the passage of this act, the practice
of the department had been to estimate the length of an
officer's service as a volunteer, in making up the five years'
service entitling him to longevity pay, the act might have
been construed to be in affirmance of the previous law; but,
so far as the record of this case shows, the practice appears
to have been the other way, and the act must be treated as
establishing a new rule for such officers in the volunteer
service after April 19, 1861.
The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded to ie Court of Claims
with/ direction to dismiss i/be 2etifion.

COCHRAN AND SAYRE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 815.

Argued and submitted March 4, 1S95. - Decided March 25, 1895.

In an indictment against the president and the assistant cashier of a
national bank for making a false entry in a report, under Rev. Stat.
ยง 5209, the report need not be described with technical accuracy; nor is
it necessary to allege that the report iu which the false entry was made
was verified by the oath or affirmation of the president or cashier, or
attested by the signature of the directors.
In such an indictment the true test is, not whether it might possibly have
been made more certain, but whether it contains every element of the

COCHRAN AND SAYRE v. UNITED STATES.

287

Statement of the Case.
offence intended to be charged, and sufficiently apprises the defendant
of what he must be prepared to meet, and, in case any other proceedings
are taken against him for a similar offence, whether the record shows
with accuracy to what extent he may plead a former acquittal or conviction.
Several objections to the admissibility of evidence considered and disposed of.
A note whose payment is guaranteed by a national bank is a liability of the
bank which is required by law (Rev. Stat. ยง 5211) to be shown in the
report to the Comptroller of the Currency.
Some objections to the charge considered and disposed of.
The defendants requested the court to charge the jury as follows: "You
are further instructed that the defendants are presumed to be innocent
until the contrary appears beyond a reasonable doubt, and that every reasonable doubt or presumption arising from the evidence must be construed in their favor." The court refused to give this instruction, but
instead thereof gave a carefully prepared definition of reasonable doubt,
without referring to the presumption of innocence which attends an
accused at every stage of the proceeding. Held, following Coffin v.
United States, 156 U. S. 432, that this was error, as the defendants were
entitled to an instruction upon the point of the presumption of innocence, if requested.
Tins was a writ of error to review a conviction of William
I. Cochran, president, and Robert H. Sayre, assistant cashier,
of the First National Bank of Del Norte, Colorado, for making a false entry in a report to the Comptroller of the Currency. On November 22, 1893, the grand jury presented
three separate indictments against the plaintiffs in error,
which were numbered 959, 960, and 992 respectively. These
indictments were identical in language, except so far as it was
necessary to change them, so that the plaintiffs in error could
both be charged as principals, and as accessories of each other.
In No. 959, both were charged as principals, for making false
entries in their reports. In No. 960, Sayre was charged with
making, and Cochran with aiding, abetting, and -procuring
Sayre to make such false entries; and in No. 992, Cochran
was charged with making, and Sayre as an accessory.
Each indictment contained twelve counts, and on motion to
quash, the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth counts of each indictment were held to be insufficient. On -May 11, 1894, the
three indictments were consolidated and tried as one, and on

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

June 6, 1894, the defendants were convicted upon the first
count of the indictment originally numbered 960.
Whereupon defendants sued out this writ of error.
-Mr. E. F. Richardson, (with whom was Mr. Charles S.
Tliomas on the brief,) for plaintiffs in error.
Mir. Solicitor General, for defendants in error, submitted on
his brief.
IVIh. JUSTICE

]3Bnow delivered the opinion of the court.

As the defendants were convicted solely upon the first
count in indictment No. 960, it is only necessary to consider
the questions arising upon this count.
1. The first assignment of error relates to the sufficiency of
this count, which charges that "Robert H. Sayre,
William H. Cochran being then and there president, the said
Robert H. Sayre being then and there assistant cashier of the
First :National Bank of Del Norte, Colorado, . . . did
make, in a certain report of the condition of the First National
Bank, . . . at the close of business on the 30th of September, 1899, made to the Comptroller of the Currency in
accordance with the provisions of section 5211 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, a certain entry."
The first objection to the indictment is that as section 5211,
referred to in this count, provides that "every association
shall make to the Comptroller of the Currency not less than
five reports during each year, according to the form which
may be prescribed by him, verified by the oath or affirmation
of the president or cashier of such association, and attested by
the signature of at least three of the directors," the indictment
should afer that the report was made by the association.
The offence charged, however, is not the making or the failure
to make the report under section 5211, the failure to make
which report subjects such association to a penalty under
section 5213, but the making of a false entry in a report,
under section 5209, which provides that "every president,
director, cashier, teller, clerk, or agent of any association,"

COCHRAN AND SAYRE v. UNITED STATES.

289

Opinion of the Court.

who makes any such false entry in any report, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor. Section 5209 is the statute violated, and
the reference to section 5211 is merely for the purpose of
identifying the report, as* one required by law to be made.
In addition to this, the indictment refers to the report as one
made "in accordance with the provisions of section 5211,"
which would imply that it was made by the association, and
was properly verified and attested, as required by that section.
Had the indictment been against the association for a failure
to make such reports, it would doubtless be necessary to aver
that the report was required to be made by the association,
but as the report is mentioned only for the purpose of showing
that it was one required by law to be made, it need not be
described with technical accuracy.
2. The second objection is that Sayre had no authority to
make the report, being only an assistant cashier. While,
under section 5211, the report in question ought to be made
by the association, verified by the oath or affirmation of the
president or cashier, and attested by the signature of three
directors, it was no less an offence, under section 5209, for an
assistant cashier to make a false entry in a report which was
to be subsequently verified by the oath of the president or
cashier in person, than it would have been if the entry had
been made by the cashier who verified the report. As the
language of section 5209 applies not only to the president
and cashier, but to any director, teller, or agent of any such
association, Sayre as assistant cashier certainly fell within the
category of clerk or agent. If he made a false entry in a report required by section 5211, it made no difference whether
the report was subsequently verified by him, or by the president or cashier in person. There is no penalty affixed by
section 5211 to the false verification of the president or
cashier. The offence is in making the false entry, with intent
to injure or defraud the association, etc.
For the reason above given, we do not think it necessary
to allege that the report in which the false entry was made

was actually verified by the oath or affirmation of the president or cashier, or attested by the signature of the directors
VOL. CLVri-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

at least that the fact that it is averred to have been
made "in accordance with the provisions of section 5211"
is a sufficient averment that it was properly verified and
attested. If such report were not 'properly verified and attested, it would doubtless be competent for the Comptroller
of the Currency to reject it, or to proceed against the association
under section 5213 for failure to make and transmit a proper
report. But, if an assistant cashier makes a false entryin a
report, which is designed to be and is made use of as a report
to the Comptroller of the Currency under section 5211, it is
difficult to see why it is not equally an offence, if the Comptroller of the Currency chooses to accept such report without
the proper attestation and verification.
These cover all the objections taken to the indictment in
the brief of defendants' counsel.
Few indictments under the national banking law are so
skilfully drawn as to be beyond the hypercriticism of astute
counsel - few which might not be made more definite by additional allegations. But the true test is, not whether it
might possibly have been made more certain, but whether it
contains every element of the offence intended to be charged,
and sufficiently apprises the defendant of what he must be
prepared to meet, and, in case any other proceedings are taken
against him for a similar offence, whether the record shows
with accuracy to what extent he may plead a former acquittal or conviction. Evans v. United States, 153 U. S.
584, 587, 588; Batchelor v. United States, 156 U. S. 426.
3. Error is assigned to the ruling of the court permitting
the district attorney to ask of the witness Charles W. Thomas
whether he had ever had any experience in a bank, or the
business of a bank, before he came to Colorado. Thomas,
who, it subsequently appears, was made cashier of the bank,
gave evidence tending to prove that he first met Cochran in
the summer of 1889, on a visit to Colorado, and that since
May 1, 1890, he had' lived at Del Norte. He was then asked
the question, "Had you ever had any experience in a bank,
or the business of a bank, before you came to Colorado? "
There was no error in permitting this interrogatory to be
-or

COCHRAN AND SAYRE v. UNITED STATES.

291

Opinion of the Court.

put. Questions regarding the age, antecedents, business, and
experience of a witness are largely within the discretion of
the court, and unless it manifestly appears that such questions are put for an improper purpose, such discretion is not
reviewable on error. The weight to be given to the testimony of this witness as to the entries in question might depend largely, not only upon his intelligence, but upon his
familiarity with the banking business. If he were a man of
previous experience in banking, he would be the better qualified
to explain to the jury the significance of the entries in question, and the manner in which the reports to the Comptroller
of the Currency were made up. If, upon the other hand, he
were appointed, because of his inexperience, as a merely perfunctory official, and because he was intended to be made use
of as a tool of the defendants in carrying out their plans, this
was a fact which the jury were entitled to know, and an item
of testimony having some bearing upon the intent to defraud
in making the false entry in question.
4. The objection to the following question put to Thomas
is equally untenable: " When the Comptroller would call on
the bank for statements, what was your habit as to taking any
part in the getting up of such statement?" His answer, "I
never made any statements," shows of itself that the question
was not prejudicial in the answer actually given. If this be
the case, the materiality or propriety of the question is of no
importance. Beyond this, however, the witness was the cashier of the bank, and was required by section 5211 to verify the
reports to the Comptroller of the Currency. Naturally, he
was the one to prepare these reports, or at least to take part
in preparing them, and if he were not called upon to do so,
the fact was at least deserving of explanation, and properly
the subject of comment by counsel. The pertinence of the
question was manifest in view of his subsequent testimony that
"the statements were handed to him, and they told him that
the statements were all right, and he would sign them. . .
The reports were never made out by witness, but by some one
else. They were made out mostly by Sayre, sometimes under
the direction of Cochran, and sometimes written out by other

OCTOBER TERI,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

parties in the bank

.

.

Either Cochran or Sayre told

him that the statements were all made out ready to sign, and
he signed them without examining them, as they were handed
to him, and without assisting in their preparation, or comparing them with the books of the bank."
5. So also the question that was put to the witness when
shown a note of the Hanover iNational Bank, which he testified was filled out and signed in the handwriting of the
defendant Sayre, as to whether it was a rediscounted note,
was perfectly proper, although objected to upon the ground
that the witness had shown an entire lack of qualification to
pass upon the question whether the note was a rediscount or
not. As it appears that the witness had been acting cashier
in the bank for two months, even if he had had no prior experience, he could hardly have failed in that time to be coinpetent to express an opinion as to whether a note was a rediscount or not. The weight to be given to his testimony was of
course a question for the jury.
6. The fifth assignment is to the introduction of the report
of the bank of September 30, 1892, to the Comptroller of the
Currency, which was objected to upon the ground, first, that
the indictment charged the defendants, one as president and the
other as assistant cashier, with making the reports, while
the report in question appears to have been made and verified
by Charles W. Thomas, as cashier, and to have been signed
by different parties as directors; second, because neither of
the defendants could be convicted under the indictments as
principals in making the said reports, but only as accessories,
if at all; ti rd, because no one except he who verified the
reports could be convicted under this indictment; and that
the defendants were charged with having, as president and
assistant cashier, made the false reports and entries therein,
whereas the statements offered were signed by defendant
Cochran as a director, while the defendant Sayre did not
sign the reports at all.
The first objection is untrue as a matter of fact. The indictment does not charge the defendants with making a false report,
but that they "did make in a certain report . . . a certain

COCHRAN AND SAYRE v. UNITED STATES.

293

Opinion of the Court.

entry, under the head of 'liabilities' and
.
.
that the
said entry so made as aforesaid was then and there false."
The argument of the defendants assumes that the making
of the entry, and the malting of the report, are the same
thing, whereas in fact they are wholly different. By section
5211, the report must be made by the association, and must
be verified by the oath or affirmation of the president or
cashier, and attested by the signature of at least three of
the directors. But, under section 5209, there is no penalty
affixed to the association or its officers for malting a false
report, nor to the president or cashier for verifying such
report. The penalty imposed by section 5209 is affixed to
the one who makes any false entry in any book, report, or
statement of the association; and that penalty is applicable
to any officer or agent of the bank, who actually makes the
entry, with intent to injure or defraud, or to deceive any
agent appointed to examine the affairs of any such association.
As was observed by Mr. Justice Woods in United States v.
Britton, 107 U. S. 655, 662, to describe the offence of making
a false entry requires the pleader to aver "(1) that the accused
was the president or other officer of a national banking association, which was carrying on a banking business; (2) that
being such president or other officer, he made in a book, report,
or statement of the association, describing it, a false entry,
describing it; (3) that such false entry was made with intent
to injure or defraud the association, or to deceive any agent,
describing him, appointed to examine the affairs of the association." The indictment in this case is a substantial copy of
that approved by this court in the Britton case, except that
the false entry is charged to have been made in a report to
the Comptroller of the Currency, instead of an entry made
in one of the books of the bank.
The second objection, that the defendants could not be
convicted as principals in making the reports, but only as
accessories, would probably be true, if they were charged
with making such reports. And the third objection, that no
one except he who verifies the reports can be convicted under
said indictments, is unsound as matter of law, for the reason

OCTOBER TERIMS 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

above stated, that the penalty is affixed to the making of the
false entry, and not at all to the making of the report. While
the officers of the bank who verify and attest the reports
are doubtless responsible for what is contained in them; if,
as matter of fact, and as often happens, the entries in such
reports are actually made by other agents of the association,
it does not diminish the criminality of such agents in the eye
of the law, that the reports are ostensibly those of the president and cashier. If the statements of Thomas be taken as
true, he, although verifying the reports as cashier, could not
be held criminally liable for their falsity, since he took and
believed the statements of Cochran and Sayre as to the truth
and correctness of such reports. If this be true, there was
lacking on his part that intent to defraud the association, or
to deceive the Comptroller of the Currency, which is made,
by section 5209, a material element of the offence. If the
persons who actually prepared the report, and made the false
entries therein, cannot be held responsible, because they did
not ostensibly verify or attest the reports, then, however false
such reports might be, no one could be held criminally responsible. This would certainly be an easy method of making
false reports, and avoiding all liability therefor. The person
who in fact made the false entries would not be liable, because
he dia not verify the report. The person who verified the
report would not be liable, because he was wholly ignorant of
the truth or falsity of the entries, and innocent of any criminal intent. ]lis ignorance of the truth of the report might
not and probably would not excuse him from liability in a
civil action for negligence, but he could only be held criminally for an evil intent actually existing in his mind - at
least unless his ignorance were wilful, or his negligence in
failing to inform himself so gross as to characterize his
conduct as fraudulent.
As it was admitted that Sayre actually made the entries in
and filled out the report in question, he was properly charged
as principal; and it was a question for the jury to say whether
Cochran, the president, so far aided and abetted him in making
such entries as to make him liable as accessory.

COCHRAN AND SAYRE v. UNITED STATES.

295

Opinion of the Court.

7. A large number of other objections were made and
exceptions taken to the admission of testimony, which may
not arise upon another trial, and which it is unnecessary here
to discuss. Certain of them, however, are based upon the
character of the false entry alleged to have been made, and
go to the very foundation of the prosecution. In this particular, the indictment charges the defendants with making "a
certain entry under the head of 'liabilities' in said report,
numbered '19,' which said entry was then and there in the
words and figures following - that is' to say: '19. Liabilities
other than those above stated, none;' and which said entry,
so as aforesaid, made in said report, then and there purported
to show, and did in substance and effect indicate and declare,
that said association had no other debt and liability other
than those debts and liabilities named and set forth in said
report, under said head of ' liabilities,' named and set forth in
said report, under said head of 'liabilities,' in said report."
After setting forth the general falsity of the entry, the
indictment avers "that the said entry so. made, as aforesaid,
was then and there false, in this, that the said association was
then and there indebted and liable to the Hanover National
Bank of New York city in the sum of five thousand dollars,
evidenced by a certain promissory note executed by the said
IRobert H. Sayre and one A. H. Clark, and payment thereof
guaranteed by said association to said Hanover National Bank
of New York city, as he, the said Robert H. Sayre, then and
there well knew."
The note was made August 21, 1892, and was payable four
months after date to the First National Bank of Del Norte,
and consequently was not due until December 21. The guaranty, which was endorsed upon the back, was as follows: "For
value received we hereby guarantee payment of the within
note at maturity, or at any time thereafter, with interest at
the rate of six per cent per annum until paid, waiving demand or notice of non-payment or protest. W. It. Cochran,
president."
The indictment, therefore, raises the question whether an unmatured note, the payment of which at maturity is guaranteed

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

by the bank, is such a liability as is required by law to be shown
in the report to the Comptroller of the Currency. The fact that
the note had not matured cuts no figure in the case. If the
bank had made the note, it would not be claimed that the
note was not a liability, though it were not yet due. The
real question is, whether the fact that the bank was only contingently liable prevented its character as a "liability" of the
bank from attaching.
We know of no definition of the word "liability" either given
in the dictionaries or as. used in the common speech of men,
which restricts it to such as are absolute, or excludes the idea
of contingency. In fact, it is more frequently used in the
latter sense than in the former, as when we speak of the liability of an insurer or a common carrier, or the liability to accidents or to errors; and in Webster's Dictionary the word
"liable" is said to refer "to a future possible or probable happening, which may not actually occur: as horses axe liable to
slip; even the sagacious are liable to make mistakes."
That Congress must have contemplated contingent liabilities
is evident, when we consider the object of section 5211, which
was to apprise the Comptroller of the Currency and the public of the condition of each national bank at stated periods.
It is manifest that a report which failed to specify the liabilities which the bank had assumed, and which it might be called
upon to discharge, would represent very imperfectly the actual financial status of the association. While it is true that
the bank could not be made chargeable with the payment of
the note until its maturity, the guaranty in this case was not
that the makers were solvent, or that the bank should pay in
case they could not be compelled to do so, but was a guaranty
of the payment of the note at maturity - such a guaranty in
fact as, within the recognized principles of law, would authorize the holder to proceed immediately against the guarantor,
without exhausting his remedy against the makers. City of
3emphis v. Brown, 20 Wall. 289, 310; Arents v. Commonwealth, 18 Grattan, 750 ; Campbell v. Baker, 46 Penn. St. 243,
245; Roberts v. Riddle, 79 Penn. St. 468; Douglass v. Rey-

nolds, 'i Pet. 113, 126.

COCHRAN AND SAYRE v. UNITED STATES.

297

Opinion of the Court.

We have held that a contract of guaranty is within the implied powers of a national bank. People's .Bankv. Hational
Bank, 101 U. S. 181. And in this case there seems to have
been good ground for believing that the note actually belonged
to the bank, as Cochran, president of the bank, in his letter of
December 14, 1891, transmitting the original note to the cashier of the New York bank, says: "We enclose a note of five
thousand dollars, signed by Sayre and Clark, guaranteed by
us, which please place to our credit." It appears, too, by the
testimony of the cashier of this bank, that the note was discounted by the cashier of the Hanover National Bank, December 21, 1891, for account of the First National Bank of Del
Norte, which was the original transaction for the same amount
executed by the same parties.
8. Several of the instructions to the jury relate to the questions whether the note given by Sayre and Clark was immediately discounted by the Del Norte Bank and the amount paid
to Sayre, in which case the court charged that it was a loan
to Sayre and that the note should have appeared in the report
among the notes and bills rediscounted; or whether it was a
sale of the note to the Hanover National Bank upon the
credit of Sayre and Clark and the Del Norte Bank, in which
case the court charged that all parties would be liable as
makers, and the note should have appeared in the report
under the head of bills payable. We fail to see how the defendant was prejudiced by these instructions. The material
question was, not under what particular head the note should
have appeared, but whether it should not have appeared somewhere in the report as a liability. In that view the court
charged : "The pleader in setting it forth seems to have been
in doubt as to whether it should Jbe called one thing or another,
and so he assumed that it was one which should have been
mentioned under the head of liabilities other than those above
stated; and I think he could reasonably do so, and that he
may charge that the entry was not true, as he has done." Of
course, the defendant in this connection could show that the
entry was made under some other head, but no attempt appears to have been made to do so.

OCTOBER TERI,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

9. The thirtieth assignment is to an alleged error of the
court in refusing to instruct the jury as follows: "You are
instructed that a false entry in a report of a national bank
officer or director to the Comptroller of the Currency, within
the meaning of the Revised Statutes, section 5209, is not
merely an incorrect entry made through inadvertence, negligence, or mistake, but is an entry known to the maker to be
untrue and incorrect, and intentionally entered, while so knowing its false and untrue character. The intention to deceive is
essential to constitute a violation of the statute, and you must
be satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt from the evidence, first,
that the defendants or one of them made a false entry in said
report; and second, that it was made with the intention of
misleading or deceiving the Comptroller of the Currency, or
some other person or persons alleged in the said indictment."
The court in this connection charged: "There is no doubt
that intent to injure and defraud must exist in order to make
the party liable under this statute - that is to say, if the omission was ignorantly made, if it was made merely out of stupidity and because the parties did not understand what was
required of them, there is no offence under the statute. The
statute relates to intentional wrongdoing. The intent must
have been, as laid in the indictment, to mislead and deceive one
of these parties, either some of the officers of the bank or the
officer of the government appointed to examine into the affairs
of the bank. . . . So that you must find, not only the
fact that there was an omission to make the proper entry but
that it was with an intent to conceal the fact from somebody
who was concerned in the bank, or concerned in overseeing it,
and supervising its operations and the conduct of its business."
We think this charge practically covers everything contained in the instruction refused. Certainly the jury could
not have convicted if they had found that the entry had been
omitted through any inadvertence or negligence, or in ignorance of its untrue character.
10. The thirty-sixth assignment is to an error of the court
in refusing to give the following instructions: " You are
further instructed that the defendants are presumed to be

COCHRAN AND SAYRE v. UNITED STATES.

299

Opinion of the Court.

innocent until the contrary appears beyond a reasonable doubt,
and that every reasonable doubt or presumption arising from
the evidence must be construed in their favor." In the recent
case of Cofin v. United States, 156 _U. S. 432, one of the instructions asked and refused was as follows: "The law presumes that persons charged with crime are innocent until
they are proven by competent evidence to be guilty. To the
benefit of this presumption the defendants are all entitled, and
this presumption stands as their sufficient protection unless it
has been removed by evidence proving their guilt beyond a
reasonable doubt." The court instructed the jury as follows:
"Before you can find any one of the defendants guilty, you
must be satisfied of his guilt as charged in some of the counts
of the indictment beyond a reasonable doubt." And again:
"You may find the defendants guilty on all the counts of the
indictments if you are satisfied that beyond a reasonable doubt
the evidence justifies it." In other words, while the court
refused to instruct as to the presumption of innocence, it did
instruct fully as to reasonable doubt, and the contention was
that, as the charge given by the court on the subject of
reasonable doubt substantially embodied the statement of the
presumption of innocence, the court was justified in refusing
in terms to grant the latter. It was held that the charge that
there could not be a conviction unless the proofs showed
guilt beyond a reasonable doubt did not so completely embody
the statement of the presumption of innocence as to justify
the court in refusing, when requested, to inform the jury
concerning the latter. The court drew a distinction between
the presumption of innocence as one of the instruments of
proof, contributing to bring about that state of case, from
which reasonable doubt arises, and a condition of mind called
reasonable doubt produced by the evidence.
In the case under consideration the court charged the jury
that "these matters are to be established in your minds
beyond reasonable doubt, and upon that subject as to what
is a reasonable doubt, which should be heeded by the jury
in a trial of this kind, I read an instruction prepared by defendants' counsel." There follows here a carefully prepared

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

definition of the words "reasonable doubt," but there is
nothing in this request, as given by the court, which refers to
the presumption of innocence, which attends the accused at
every stage of the proceeding; and we think the defendants
were entitled to an instruction upon that point, if requested.
It is frequently assumed by courts that an instruction to a
jury that they must not convict unless satisfied of the defendant's guilt, beyond a reasonable doubt, carries with it an
implication: that the presumption of innocence has been overborne by satisfactory evidence of guilt. This, as stated in
the cojfin case, is the tenor of some of the authorities upon
the subject; but in that case they were distinguished, and a
presumption of innocence said to be "a conclusion drawn by
the law in favor of the citizen, by virtue whereof, when
brought to trial upon a criminal charge, he must be acquitted,
unless he is proven to be guilty;" while reasonable doubt is
defined as a "condition of mind produced by the proof resulting from the evidence in the cause." "To say that the one
is the equivalent of the other is, therefore, to say that legal
evidence can be excluded from the jury, and such exclusion
can be cured by instructing them correctly in regard to the
method by which they are required to reach their conclusion
upon the proof actually before them." We held that this
could not be done -in other words, that the exclusion of an
important element of truth could not be justified by correctly
instructing as to the proof admitted. In the case under consideration, counsel asked for a specific instruction upon the
defendants' presumption of innocence, and we think it should
have been given.
The Coffln case is conclusive in this particular, and it results that the judgment of the court below must be
Reversed, and the case remanded with instructions to grant
a new trial.

