OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

states no case entitling the plaintiff Potter, who sues only as a
guardian appointed in Kentucky, to any form of relief.
It is equally clear that the other plaintiff, the minor's
mother, suing as his next friend, cannot maintain this bill. As
said by Lord Somers, "An infant may by his prochein ami call
his guardian to an account." Fallandv. Bertie, 2 Vernon,
333, 342. It is the infant, and not the next friend, who is the
real and proper party. The next friend, by whom the suit is
brought on behalf of the infant, is neither technically nor
substantially the party, but resembles an attorney, or a guardian ad litem, by whom a suit is brought or defended in
behalf of another. The suit must be brought in the name of
the infant, and not in that of the next friend. Crandallv.
Slaid, 11 Met. 288; Guild v. Cranston,8 Cush. 506.
As upon this record, in the condition in which it has been
sent up, neither of the plaintiffs is entitled to maintain this
suit, the first question certified must be answered in the negative, and it becomes unnecessary to answer any of the other
questions certified.

Ordered accordingly.

MIOHELS v. OLMSTEAD.
APPEAL FROM[ THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 100.

Submitted December 4,1,94. -Decided

March 18, 1895.

If, in an action at law upon a written contract, oral evidence offered by the
defendant that the writing signed by the parties was not intended as a
contract, nor understood by either party to be binding as such, is exmay be discharged, and required to settle his account, as hereinafter
provided.
SEc. 3249. Such discharge shall not be made, unless the guardian appointed in another State or Territory shall apply to the probate court in
this State which made the former appointment, and file therein an exemplification of the record of the court making the foreign appointment containing all the entries and proceedings in relation to his appointment and
his giving of bond, with a copy thereof and of the letters of guardianship,
all authenticated as required by the act of Congress in that behalf ; and

MICHELS v. OLMSTEAD.
Opinion of the Court.
eluded by the court, upon the plaintiff's objection, as incompetent to
control the written contract, he is estopped, at the hearing of a bill in
equity thereupon filed by the defendant for an injunction against the
prosecution of the action at law, to object that the evidence was admissible at law only.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

AConely for appellant.
Ar. John D.
ir. John L. Peak, -. r. RI. E. Ball, Mr. R. 1. Yeager, and
X2r. A. R. Strother for appellee.
MLR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a bill in equity, filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Missouri by Olmstead, a citizen of Missouri, against Michels, a citizen of
Michigan, for an injunction against the prosecution of an
action at law brought in the same court by Michels against
Olmstead to recover damages for the breach of a contract in
writing, by which Michels agreed to furnish, and to put into
a building to be erected by Olmstead at Kansas City, in the
State of Missouri, the machinery necessary for manufacturing
corn into a syrup, commonly called glucose, by the so-called
dry process, and of sufficient capacity to manufacture 2000
bushels of Indian corn into such syrup every twenty-four hours;
and Michels guaranteed the machinery to be of that capacity,
and to produce a yield of a certain amount and quality of
syrup; and Olmstead agreed to pay Michels therefor the sum
of $81,160.
The bill, among other things, alleged that, before the contract was signed, Olmstead informed Michels that he did not
desire to engage in the business of manufacturing syrup indibefore such application shall be heard, or any action taken therein by the
court, at least thirty days' written notice shall be served on the guardian
appointed in this State, specifying the object of the application, and the
time when the same will be heard : Provided further, that the court may
in any case deny the application, unless satisfied that the discharge of the
guardian appointed in this State would be to the interest of the ward.

OCTOBER TERTM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

vidually, but only as a member of a corporation which he and
others contemplated forming, and as agent for whom he was
negotiating; and Michels promised him that, if he would
sign the contract, he would permit him to see the operation
of manufacturing syrup from corn by the dry process ia the
works of Michels at Detroit in the State of -ichigan, and
then return and report to his associates, and if he should be
satisfied and report that the process was in successful operation, and should accomplish the organization of the corporation, the terms of the contract might be taken as the basis of
a proposition by Michels, which the corporation might adopt,
but that in no event should the contract bind Olmstead
individually.
The bill further alleged that, after the signing of the contract, the plaintiff and his associates discovered that the pretended dry process was worthless, and was so known to be to
all persons skilled in the manufacture of syrup from corn, and
that the price of machinery mentioned in the contract was
extortionate and excessive; and that the plaintiff and his associates therefore did not accept Michels's proposition, nor
organize a corporation; and that he was advised that his
defence against the enforcement of the contract could not be
made in an action at law, and he could only have relief in a
court of equity.
At the first trial of the action at law brought by Michels
against Olmstead, oral evidence of the facts alleged in the bill,
as above stated, was offered by Olmstead, and was submitted
to the jury. 4 McCrary, 549. The jury failed to agree, and
(as both parties admit) upon a second trial of that action, like
evidence was offered by Olmstead, and, upon the objection of
Michels, was excluded by the court, as incompetent to control
the written contract.
Ohstead thereupon brought this suit in equity, which was
heard upon pleadings and proofs, and a final decree entered
therein for him. 36 Fed. Rep. 455. Michels appealed to this
court.
Upon the evidence, the fact that the writing signed by the
parties, and apparently a contract between them, was not

MEXICAN NATIONAL RAILROAD v. DAVIDSON.

201

Statement of the Case.

intended as a contract, nor understood by either party to be
binding as such, is so conclusively established, that a discussion of the question of fact could serve no useful purpose.
It is suggested, in the brief for the appellant, that if such
was the fact, it should be set up in an action at law, and be
tried by a jury. But the conclusive answer to the suggestion
is, that evidence of this very fact was offered in the action at
law, and excluded, upon his objection, as incompetent in that
action; and that he is thereby estopped now to assert that it
could or should be availed of at law. Philadelphia Railroad
v. Howard, 13 How. 307; .Davis v. liakelee, 156 U. S. 680.
If the evidence was inadmissible at law, which he is estopped
to deny, it was certainly admissible in equity to prevent the
accomplishment of what any court of chancery must consider
and treat as a fraud. Burnes v. Scott, 117 U. S. 582, 588;
Burke v. Dulaney, 153 U. S. 228; Davis v. Wakelee, above
cited.
Decree affirmned.

MEXICAN

NATIONAL RAILROAD
DAVIDSON.

COMPANY

DAVIDSON v. MEXICAN NATIONAL
COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM1

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF

v.

RAILROAD

APPEALS

FOR

THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 880, 876. -Submitted

February 4, 1895. - Decided March 18, 1895.

Under ยง 2 of the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24 Stat. 552, as corrected by the
act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433, the jurisdiction of a Circuit
Court of the United States, on removal by the defendant of an action
from a state court, is limited to such suits as might have been brought
in that court under the first section.

A question of jurisdiction cannot be waived.
THE Mexican National Construction Company, a citizen of
Colorado, assigned certain causes of action against the Mex-

