OCTOBER TERM,

189.

Statement of the Case.

the passage of the act of 1870, place upon its twenty-fifth
section, or upon section 4887 of the Revised Statutes which
took its place, any interpretation other than that which the
ordinary, natural meaning of their words import.
Our answers, therefore, to the questions certified are thatUnder the facts stated, the invention for which the United
States patent to Bate was issued was "previously patented
in aforeign country," within the meaning of those words
in section 4887 of the Revised Statutes, and the United
States patent expired, under the terms of that section,
before the expirationof seventeen years frot its date, and
it is so certified to the Circuit Court of Appeals.

FROST v. WENIE.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
1No. 172.

Argued January 24, 1S95. -

Decided March 4, 1895.

Where two statutes cover, in whole or in part, the same matter, and are not
absolutely irreconcilable, and no purpose to repeal the earlier act is expressed or clearly indicated, the court will, if possible, give effect to
both.
In view of the treaties between the United States and the Osage Indians, and
the laws affecting their lands enacted prior to December 15, 1880, it must
be held that the lands which were, by the act of that date, 21 Stat. 311,
directed to be opened for entry under the homestead laws, were lands
within the abandoned Fort Dodge military reservation, subject to disposition under general laws relating to " other public lands," and not lands of
an exceptional class, that were affected with a trust established for the
benefit of Indians by treaty.

TaE appellant, who was the plaintiff below, claimed to be
possessed of the equitable title to certain lands, the legal title
to which is in the appellee, Frederick T. M. Wenie, by virtue
of a patent issued by the United States January 25, 1890.

FROST v. WENIE.
Statement of the Case.

The relief sought by the bill is a decree declaring the legal
title to be held in trust for the plaintiff, and requiring the
defendant to convey such title to him.
The lands in dispute constitute a part of what are known
as the Osage Indian trust and diminished reserve lands in
Kansas, included within what was once the Fort Dodge military reservation, established June 22, 1868. They are lots 9,
10, 11, and 12 in section 25, township 26 south, of range 25
west, and lots 14 and 15 of section 30, township 26 south,
range 25 west, in Ford County, Kansas.
The appellant made a homestead entry of these lands on
the 1st day of October, 1881, at the Lamed, Kansas, land
,office. This entry was made under the assumption that the
lands had been restored to the public domain by the act of
Congress approved December 15, 1880, c. 1, which declared
that the Fort Dodge military reservation was no longer
needed for military purposes, and authorized the Secretary
of the Interior to dispose of a part of the lands within
that reservation to actual settlers under the provisions of
the homestead law. 21 Stat. 311.
The case turns on the construction of that act - the controlling question being whether Congress intended to open to
actual settlers under the homestead laws such of the lands,
within the limits of the abandoned military reservation, lying
north of the railroad track, as were part of the Osage trust
lands. The court below held that it did not.
The principal ground of the decision was that a different
interpretation is .not required by the terms of the statute, and
would be inconsistent with the treaties between the United
States and the Osage Indians and with the previously declared
purpose of Congress in reference to the Osage lands.
Before looking at the language of the act of December 15,
1880, it will be well to recall the history of these lands, as
well as the relations between the United States and the Osage
Indians, as shown by treaties and by legislative enactments.
One of the articles of the treaty of June 2, 1825, between
the United States and the Great and Little Osage tribes of
Indians, established a reservation in what is now the southern

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

part of Kansas, which those Indians could occupy as long as
they chose to do so. 7 Stat. 240.
By an act, approved January 9, 1837, c. 1, it was provided:
"SEc. 1. All moneys received from the sales of lands, that
have been, or may be hereafter, ceded to the United States
by Indian tribes, by treaties providing for the investment or
payment to the Indians, parties thereto, of the proceeds of
the lands ceded by them, respectively, after deducting the,
expenses of survey and sale, any sums stipulated to be advanced, and the expenses of fulfilling any engagements contained therein, shall be paid into the Treasury of the United
States in the same manner that moneys received from the
sales of public lands are paid into the Treasury.. SEc. 2. All
sums that are or may be required to be paid, and all moneys
that are or may be required to be invested by said treaties,
are hereby appropriated in conformity to them, and shall be
drawn from the Treasury as other public moneys are drawn
therefrom, under such instructions as may from time to time
be given by the President." 5 Stat. 135.
In the act of July 22, 1854, c. 103, establishing the offices
of surveyor general of New Mexico, Kansas, and Nebraska,
is a provision "that all the lands to which the Indian title
has been or shall be extinguished within said Territories of
Nebraska and Kansas shall be subject to the operations of the
preemption act of fourth September, eighteen hundred and
forty-one, and under the conditions, restrictions, and stipulations therein mentioned." 10 Stat. 308, 310.
By the act of May 20, 1862, c. 75, the object of which
was to secure homesteads to actual settlers on the public
domain, it was provided, among other things, that all lands
subject to preemption entry might be acquired by homesteaders without the payment of cash therefor. 12 Stat. 392.
And by the act of June 2, 1862, establishing a land office
in the Territory of Colorado and for other purposes, it was
declared "that all the lands belonging to the United States
to which the Indian title has been or shall be extinguished
shall be subject to the operation of the preemption act of the
fourth of September, eighteen hundred and forty-one, and

FROST v. WENIE.
Statement of the Case.

under thg conditions, restrictions, and stipulations therein
mentioned." 12 Stat. 413.
Oh the 26th day of September, 1865, another treaty was
made between the United States and the Great and Little
Osage Indians. It was amended in 1866, and proclaimed
January 21, 1867. By its first article the Indians granted
and sold to the United States the lands within the following
boundary: "Beginning at the southeast corner of their present reservation, and running thence north with the eastern
boundary thereof fifty miles to the northeast corner; thence
west with the northern line thirty miles; thence south fifty
miles, to the southern boundary of said reservation; and
thence east with said southern boundary to the place of
beginning: Provided, That the western boundary of said
land herein ceded shall not extend further westward than
upon a line commencing at a point on the southern boundary
of said Osage country one mile east of the place where the
Verdigris River crosses the southern boundary of the State of
Kansas." The consideration for this sale was the agreement
of the United States "to pay the sum of three hundred thousand dollars, which sum shall be placed to the credit of said
tribe of Indians in the Treasury of the United States, and
interest thereon at the rate of five per centum per annum.
shall be paid to said tribes semi-annually, in money, clothing,
provisions, or such articles of utility as the Secretary of the
Interior may from time to time direct." By the same article
of the treaty it was provided that "said land shall be surveyed
and sold, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior,
on the most advantageous terms, for cash, as public lands are
surveyed and sold under existing laws, including any act
granting lands to the State of Kansas in aid of the construction of a railroad through said lands, but no preemption
claim or homestead settlement shall be recognized : and after
reimbursing the United States the cost of said survey and
sale, and the said sum of three hundred thousand dollars
placed to the credit of said Indians, the remaining proceeds
of sales shall be placed in the Treasury of the United States
to the credit of the ' civilization fund,' to be used, under the
VOL. CLYII-V4

OCTOBER TERI,

1894.

Statement of the Case.

direction of the Secretary of the Interior, for the 'education
and civilization of Indian tribes residing within the limits of
the United States." 14 Stat. 687, 692.
The Indians by the second article of this treaty ceded to the
United States other lands, constituting a. tract of twenty miles
in width from north to south, off the north side of the remainder "of their previous reservation," extending its entire
length from east to west. As to this cession it is provided:
"Which land is to be held in trust for said Indians, and to
be surveyed and sold for their benefit under the direction of
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, at a p rice not
less than one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre as other lands
are surveyed and sold, under such rules and regulations as the
Secretary of the Interior shall froin time to time Prescribe.

The proceeds of such sales, as they accrue, after deducting all
expenses incident to the proper execution of the trust, shall be
placed in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the
said tribe of Indians; and the interest thereon, at the rate of
five per centum per annum, shall be expended annually for
building houses, purchasing agricultural implements and stock
animals, and for the employment of a physican and mechanics,
and for providing such other necessary aid as will enable said
Indians to commence agricultural pursuits under favorable circumstances: Provided, That twenty-five per centum of the
net proceeds arising from the sale of said trust lands, until
said percentage shall amount to the sum of eighty thousand
dollars, shall be placed to the credit of the school fund of said
Indians; and the interest thereon, at the rate of five per
centum per annum, shall be expended semi-annually for the
boarding, clothing, and education of the children of said
tribe." 14 Stat. 687, 692.
After this treaty and apparently for the purpose of protecting and fulfilling its provisions, various acts and joint resolutions were passed by Congress which are to be taken into
consideration when disposing of this case.
A joint resolution was passed April 10, 1869, declaring:
"That any bonafide settler residing upon any portion of the
lands sold to the United States, by virtue of the first and

FROST v. WENIE.
Statement of the Case.

second articles of the treaty concluded between the United
States and the Great and Little Osage tribe of Indians,
September twenty-ninth, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, and
proclaimed January twenty-first, eighteen hundred and sixtyseven, who is a citizen of the United States or shall have
declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States,
shall be, and hereby is, entitled to purchase the same in
quantity not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres, at the
price of one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, within two
years from the passage of this act, under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior:
Provided, however, That both the odd and even-numbered
sections of said lands shall be. subject to settlement and sale
as above provided: And provided, further, That the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections in each township of said lands
shall be reserved for state school purposes in accordance with
the provisions of the act of admission of the State of Kansas:
Provided,however, That nothing in this act shall be construed
in any manner affecting any legal rights heretofore vested in
any other party or parties." 16 Stat. 55.
In the act of July 15, 1870, c. 296, making appropriations for
the current and contingent expenses of the Indian Department
and for fulfilling treaty stipulations with various Indian tribes,
provision is made for the removal of the Great and Little
Osage Indians whenever they agree thereto from their lands
in Kansas "to lands provided or to be provided for them for
a permanent home in the Indian Territory," the lands so to
be provided "to be paid for out of the proceeds of the sales
of their lands in Kansas." The sum of $50,000 was appropriated to meet the expenses of such removal and to aid in subsisting the Indians during the first year; "to be reimbursed
to the United States from the proceeds of the sale of the
lands of the said Indians in Kansas, including the trust lands
north of their present diminished reservation, which lands
shall be open to settlement after survey, excepting the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections, which shall be reserved to the
State of Kansas for school purposes, and shall be sold to actual settlers only, said settlers being heads of families, or over

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

twenty-one years of age, in quantities not exceeding one hundred and -sixty acres, in square form, to each settler, at the
price of one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre; payment
to be made in cash within one year from the date of settlement or of the passage of this act; and the United States, in
consideration of the relinquishment by said Indians of their
lands in Kansas shall pay annually interest on the amount of
money received as proceeds of sale of said lands at the rate of
five per centum, to be expended by the President for the benefit of said Indians in such manner as he may deem proper."
16 Stat. 335, 362.
By an "act for the relief of settlers on the Osage lands
in the State of Kansas," approved May 9, 1872, c. 149, it
was provided: "That the Osage Indian trust and diminished
reserve lands in the State of Kansas, excepting the sixteenth
and thirty-sixth sections in each township, shall be subject to
disposal, for cash only, to actual settlers, in quantities not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres, or one-quarter section
to each, in compact form, in accordance with the general
principles of the preemption laws, under the direction of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office: Provided, That
claimants shall file their declaratory statements as prescribed
in other cases upon unoffered lands, and shall pay for the
tracts, respectively, settled upon within one year from date
of settlement where the plat of survey is on file at that date,
and within one year from the filing of the township plat in
the district office where such plat is not on file at date of
settlement." An actual settler upon those lands who had
failed to pay for and enter the land settled upon by him
under the act of July 15, 1870, was given three months in
which to file his declaratory statement, and he was required
to prove his claim and pay for the land before January 1,
1873, interest at the rate of 5 per cent to be paid from the
day when payment should have been made under the act of
1870. 17 Stat. 90.
On the 23d day of June, 1874, Congress passed an act,
(c. 488,) declaring "that all actual settlers upon the Osage Indian trust and diminished reserve lands in the State of Kansas

FROST v. WENIE.
Statement of the Case.

shall be allowed one year from the passage of this act in
which to make proof and payment: Provided,That all purchasers who avail themselves of the provisions of this act
shall pay interest on the purchase price of their lands at the
rate of five per centum from the date when payment was required by previous laws to date of actual payment: And pro'vided further, That no further extension of payment shall be
granted than that provided for in this act, and that all occupants now upon said Osage lands shall file their application
to purchase the lands occupied by them within three months
after the passage of this act, or forfeit all right or claim to
the same." 18 Stat. 283.
By an act approved August 11, 1876, c. 259, providing for
the sale of Osage ceded lands in Kansas to actual settlers, the
privilege was given to any bona fide settler, a citizen of the
United States, or who had declared his intention of becoming
such, and residing at the time of completing his or her entry,
as in that act prescribed, upon any portion of the lands sold
to the United States by the treaty of 1865-1867 with the
Great and Little Osage tribes, to purchase the same, not exceeding 160 acres, at the price of $1.25 per acre, within one
year from the passage of the act under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior;
the purchaser paying one-fourth of the price at the time of
his entry and the remainder, with 5 per cent interest, in threeannual payments, notes therefor to be given to the United
States. 19 Stat. 127, 128, §§ 1, 3.
Then came the act of May 28, 1880, c. 107, "for the relief
of settlers upon the Osage trust and diminished reserve lands
in Kansas." The first section gives sixty days after a day to
be fixed by public advertisement in the proper land districts,
(not later than ninety days after the passage of the act,)
within which actual settlers on such lands may prove their
claims and pay the purchase price, one-fourth in cash, and the
balance in three annual instalments. In case of default the lands
were to be sold as provided in the act. By other sections it is
provided: "SEc. 2. That all the said Indian lands remaining
unsold and unappropriated and not embraced in the claims pro-

OCTOBER TERAT, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

vided for in section one of this act, shall be subject to disposal
to actual settlers only, having the qualifications of preimtors
on the public lands. Such settlers shall make due application
to the register with proof of settlement and qualifications as
aforesaid; and, upon payment of not less than one-fourth the
purchase price shall be permitted to enter not exceeding one
quarter section each, the balance to be paid in three equal in-.
stalments, with like penalties, liabilities and restrictions as to
default and forfeiture as provided in section one of this act.
SEC. 3. All lands upon which such default has continued for
ninety days shall be placed upon a list, and the Secretary of
the Interior shall cause the same to be duly proclaimed for sale
in the manner prescribed for the offering of the public lands,
but such lands . . . shall be sold for cash to the
. .
highest bidder at not less than the price fixed by law;
and if any of said lands shall remain unsold after the offering
as aforesaid, they shall be subject to private entry for cash in
tracts not exceeding one quarter section by one purchaser."
21 Stat. 143.
In the same year an act was passed, June 16, 1880, c. 251,
to carry into effect the second and sixteenth articles of the treaty
of 1865, proclaimed January 21, 186T. The preamble of the act
is as follows: "Whereas, by the act for the admission of the
State of Kansas into the Union, approved January twenty.ninth, eighteen hundred and sixty-one, the United States
granted to said State the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections ' of
every township of public lands in said State,' but especially
provided that the lands embraced within the Indian reservations in said States should not be alienated for any purpose
except with the consent of the Indians of such reservations,
and in accordance with the conditions of the treaty authorizing such alienation; and whereas, by the treaty between the
United States and the Great and Little Osage Indians, proclaimed January twenty-first, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven,
a trust was created for the disposal of the lands of said Indians in
the State of Kansas, the metes and bounds of which said lands
are specifically set forth in said treaty, by which the United
States bound itself to convey and sell any and all of such lands
-

'FROST v. WENIE.
Statement of the Case.

'at a price not less than one dollar and twenty-five cents per
acre, as other lands are surveyed and sold,' and to place ' the proceeds of such lands as they accrue, after deducting all expenses
incident to the proper execution of the trust, . . . in the
Treasury of the United States to the credit of said tribe of
Indians;' and whereas it is claimed that under the operation
of the treaty herein referred to there are moneys due, both on
account of grants and sales of lands which have not been placed
to the credit of said Indians, as provided for in said treaty."
The act provided: "That the Secretary of the Interior is
hereby authorized and directed to cause an account to be stated
of the number of acres of the Osage lands in the State of Kansas that have in any way been alienated by the United States,
either by the act of January twenty-ninth, eighteen hundred
and sixty-one, entitled 'An act for the admission of Kansas
into the Union,' or since the creation of the trust for the sale
of these lands by the treaty between the United States and
the Great and Little Osage Indians, proclaimed January
twenty-first, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven, and of the
money received by the United States on account of the sales
of such lands, and to certify the difference between the sum
so received and the sum that would be due said trust at the
date of the account herein provided for, had all of said lands
so alienated been disposed of as provided for by said treaty.
That a sum of money equal to the amount certified by the
Secretary of the Interior, in pursuance of the foregoing section,
to the Secretary of the Treasury, is hereby appropriated out of
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, which
the Secretary of the Treasury is directed to place to the credit
of the Secretary of the Interior, as custodian of said trust
funds, and, after defraying the cost of survey and sale of said
lands and other expenses contracted by the United States or
the Osage Nation in the execution of said trust, the balance
of said funds shall be placed in the Treasury of the United
States, to the credit of said Indians, to be invested and distributed in accordance with existing treaties: Provided,That
a like settlement shall be made with the Indian-civilization
fund for the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections, given by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

United States to the State of Kansas, within the limits of the
Osage lands ceded by the first article of the treaty aforesaid."
21 Stat. 291.
This brings us to the act approved December 15, 1880, c. 1,
the preamble of which declares that the Fort Dodge military
reservation was no longer needed for military purposes. That
act made it "the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to cause
all that portion of the Fort Dodge military reservation, in the
State of Kansas, being and lying north of the land owned and
occupied by the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad
Company for right of way for its railroad; (and to cause
the same) to be surveyed, sectionized, and subdivided as other
public lands, and after said survey to offer the said lands to
actual settlers only, under and in accordance with the homestead laws of the United States: Provided, That the said
Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 -Railroad Company shall have
the right to purchase such portion of said reservation as it
may need for its use adjoining that now owned by it, not exceeding 160 acres, by paying therefor the price at which the
same may be appraised under the direction of the Secretary
of the Interior." 21 Stat. 311.
The lands here in .dispute are within the overlapping limits
of the Osage trust and diminished reserve lands and of the
Fort Dodge military reservation, and lie north of the land
owned and occupied by the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fd
Railroad Company for right of way for its railroad.
As already stated, Frost had in view, when making his
entry, the provisions of the act of Congress of December 15,
1880. lIe immediately settled on the land and within six
months built a house and moved his family into it. One
IBoyd filed a preemption statement for the lots applied for by
Frost as well as for other lots. He subsequently relinquished
all claim to so much of the land as conflicted with Frost's claim.
On the 5th day of November, 1881, Wenie, the appellee, filed
his preemption declaratory statement for the land embraced
in Frost's entry. He proceeded under the act of May 28, 1880.
Wenie's, as well as Boyd's, application was rejected by the
local land officers, and that ruling was sustained by the Com-

FROST v. WENTE.
Opinion of the Court.

missioner of the General Land Office and by the Secretary of
the Interior. Frost then proceeded to make his final proofs
and they were accepted by the local land officers. He paid
$110.80 for the land, taking the benefit of section 2301 of the
Revised Statutes, which allowed payment of the minimum
price for land entered at any time before the expiration of
five years.
Wenie appealed, but his appeal was dismissed by the Commissioner of the General Land Office. He then appealed to
the Secretary of the Interior, and on the 5th day of October,
1887, Acting Secretary Muldrow reversed the ruling of the
Commissioner. 6 L. D. 175. Thereupon the homestead entry
of Frost was cancelled and Wenie was permitted to perfect
his preemption filing of November 5, 1881. Upon a review
of the decision of Acting Secretary Muldrow it was affirmed
by Secretary Vilas. Wenie v. Frost, 6 L. D. 539. This decision was followed by one rendered by Secretary Noble, recognizing the previous ruling by his predecessor. Frostv. Wenie,
9 L. D. 588. On the 20th day of January, 1890, a patent was
duly issued to Wenie.
It was admitted that Frost had previously exercised his
right under the law, as a preemptor, to purchase Osage lands.
The decree below sustained the action of the Interior
Department, and the bill being held insufficient upon demurrer, was dismissed with costs to the defendant.
AMr. W. T. S. Curtis and Mr. Samnuel Shellabargerfor appellant. Mr. A. A. floehling, Jr., was on their brief.
Mr. Fpederic D. McKenney for appellees. Mr. S. F. Philli'ps and -r. William H. 1amar were on his brief.
MR. JusTICE HARLAN, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The act of May 28, 1880, for the relief of settlers upon the
Osage trust and diminished reserve lands in Kansas, provided
that all of those Indian lands remaining unsold and unappropriated (and not embraced in certain claims which it is unnec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

essary here to mention) shall be subject to disposal to actual
settlers only, "having the qualifications of preemptors on the
public lands" -each
settler being permitted "to enter not
exceeding one quarter section each."
The act of December 15, 1880, directed the Secretary of the
Interior to cause all that portion of the Fort Dodge military
reservation lying north of the right of way of the Atchison,
Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad to be surveyed, sectionized,
and subdivided "as other public lands," and after survey "to
offer the said lands to actual settlers only, under and in accordance with the homestead laws of the United States."
Only about one twenty-fifth part of the lands embraced in
so much of the Fort Dodge military reservation as is described
in the last-named act were Osage trust lands. 6 L. D. 541.
Did Congress intend, by the act of December 15, 1880, toopen to entry by homesteaders lands of the class which, by
the act of May 28, 1880, were opened to entry only by actual
settlers having the qualifications of preemptors .
-It is to be observed that although the words of the act of
December 15, 1880, are broad enough, if literally interpreted,
to embrace all the lands within the abandoned Fort Dodge
military reservation north of the Atchison railroad, there are
no words in it of express repeal of any former statute. It is
well settled that repeals by implication are not to be favored.
And where two statutes cover, in whole or in part, the same
matter, and are not absolutely irreconcilable, the duty of the
court - no purpose to repeal being clearly expressed or indicated - is, if possible, to give effect to both. In other words,
it must not be supposed that the legislature intended by a
later statute to repeal a prior one on the same subject, unless
the last statute is so broad in its terms and so clear and
explicit in its words as to show that it was intended to cover
the whole subject, and, therefore, to displace the prior statute.
McOool v. Smith, 1 Black, 459, 468; United States v. Tynen,
11 Wall. 88, 93; Ped Rock v. Henry, 106 U. S. 596, 601;
iYenderso'es Tobacco, 11 Wall. 652; King v. Cornell, 106 U. S.
395, 396.
There is an interpretation of the act of December 15, 1880,

FROST v. WENIE.
Opinion of the Court.

that will give effect to its provisions, and at the same time
leave untouched the prior act as expressing the will of Congress in respect of the Osage trust and diminished reserve
lands. That interpretation assumes that Congress did not
intend by that act to prescribe for the Osage trust lands
within the limits of the abandoned Fort Dodge military
reservation, north of the Atchison railroad, any different rule
or policy than had been prescribed by the act of May 28, 1880,
for all such trust lands wherever situated. Excluding from
the operation of the act of December 15, 1880, any lands
affected with an express trust in favor of Indians,(that is, construing it as applying only to public lands, strictly so called,
which the United States could dispose of without any breach
of good faith or violation of treaty obligations, there is no
difficulty in giving effect to the provisions as well of that act as
of the act of May 28, 1880, without infringing any established
principle for the interpretation of statutes. No trace can be
discovered in the various legislative enactments relating specifically to the Osage trust lands of any intention, upon the part
of Congress, to disregard the terms of its treaties with the
Osage Indians; and, consequently, the act of December 15,
1880, should not be construed as impairing the rights of the
-Indians, unless such a construction be unavoidable. It is not
unavoidable. Looking at that act, in connection with prior
statutes, particularly that of May 28, 1880, we are of opinion
that the lands which the act of December 15, 1880, directed to
be opened for entry under the homestead laws, were public
lands that were within the abandoned military reservation,
and subject to disposition under general laws relating to
"other public lands," and not lands of an exceptional class
that were affected with a trust established for the benefit of
Indians by treaty. Acting Secretary of the Interior Muldrow
said: "However we may construe the act of December 15,
1880, with reference to the disposal of the greater part of the
reservation relinquished by said act lying north of the Osage
lands, it should not be so construed as to impair or defeat
the rights of the Indians guaranteed by the treaty of 1865."
6 L. D. 175.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894. •
Syllabus.

Application having been made to Secretary Vilas for a
review of that decision, that officer, among other things, said:
"I am satisfied that Congress, by the" act of December 15,
1880, had no intention of repealing the act of May 28, 1880,
or any portion thereof, since such repeal would work an impairment of the rights guaranteed to the Indians by the
treaty of 1865. Especially do I think this view is warranted
in the absence of any express words of repeal; for, had Congress intended a repeal the effect of which would be to disregard treaty obligations, or to defeat or impair treaty rights, I
feel certain it would have expressed that intention in plain
words and not left it to implication. H1ow, then, is the act of
December, 1880, in so far as it is in apparent conflict with the
act of May 28, 1880, (which is as to less than three sections of
land,) to be construed? Manifestly, the intention of Congress
can be ascertained only by a consideration of the treaty of
1865, and the two acts above mentioned 'inpari materia; and
so considering them, I have no difficulty in arriving at the
conclusion that the tract in question cannot be legally entered
by Frost for the reason that having made one Osage entry he
is not a qualified preemptor." 6 L. D. 540.
We approve the construction placed upon the act of December 15, 1880, by the Interior Department, and the decree is
Affirmed.

THE LUDVIG HOLBERG. 1
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 186. Argued January 8, 1895. - Decided March 4, 1895.

A statement that a steamship, in the harbor of New York, with no fog,
meeting a tug with a tow, starboards after receiving two whistles from
the tug and subsequently ports and attempts to pass between the tug
and her tow, is grossly improbable.
1 The docket title of this case is "The F. 0. Matthiessen & Wiechers
Sugar Refining Company v. The Steamship Ludvig Holberg &c., Christopher
Kahrs et al., claimants."

