MEXICAN NATIONAL RAILROAD v. DAVIDSON.

201

Statement of the Case.

intended as a contract, nor understood by either party to be
binding as such, is so conclusively established, that a discussion of the question of fact could serve no useful purpose.
It is suggested, in the brief for the appellant, that if such
was the fact, it should be set up in an action at law, and be
tried by a jury. But the conclusive answer to the suggestion
is, that evidence of this very fact was offered in the action at
law, and excluded, upon his objection, as incompetent in that
action; and that he is thereby estopped now to assert that it
could or should be availed of at law. Philadelphia Railroad
v. Howard, 13 How. 307; .Davis v. liakelee, 156 U. S. 680.
If the evidence was inadmissible at law, which he is estopped
to deny, it was certainly admissible in equity to prevent the
accomplishment of what any court of chancery must consider
and treat as a fraud. Burnes v. Scott, 117 U. S. 582, 588;
Burke v. Dulaney, 153 U. S. 228; Davis v. Wakelee, above
cited.
Decree affirmned.

MEXICAN

NATIONAL RAILROAD
DAVIDSON.

COMPANY

DAVIDSON v. MEXICAN NATIONAL
COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM1

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF

v.

RAILROAD

APPEALS

FOR

THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 880, 876. -Submitted

February 4, 1895. - Decided March 18, 1895.

Under ยง 2 of the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24 Stat. 552, as corrected by the
act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433, the jurisdiction of a Circuit
Court of the United States, on removal by the defendant of an action
from a state court, is limited to such suits as might have been brought
in that court under the first section.

A question of jurisdiction cannot be waived.
THE Mexican National Construction Company, a citizen of
Colorado, assigned certain causes of action against the Mex-

OCTOBER TERIVf, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

ican National Railroad Company, also a citizen of Colorado,
to Davidson, a citizen of New York, September 11, 1891, and,
on the same day, Davidson began his action of attachment
in the Supreme Court of the State of iNew York, against the
railroad company, which in due season removed the cause
into the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern District
of New York. Davidson, the plaintiff, recovered judgment
for $151,832.41, upon a trial before the court without a
jury. From this judgment the railroad company sued out its
writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals of the United
States for the Second Circuit, and Davidson also sued out a
writ of error on the ground that he should have had judgment
for a larger amount.
The Circuit Court of Appeals certified to this court in each
case the following questions:
"First. Whether or not the United States Circuit Court of
the Eastern District of New York had jurisdiction to hear
and determine the first cause of action.
"Second. Whether or not the United States Circuit Court of
the Eastern District of New York had jurisdiction .to hear and
determine the second cause of action."
These questions were preceded by a statement of facts by
that court setting forth, among other things, that plaintiff
sought to recover upon two causes of action:
"1st. To recover, with interest from the 15th of October,
1886, the amount of a debt owing the construction company
by the Mexican National Railroad Company on the 15th
October, 1886, which the defendant, in consideration of the
transfer to it of certain railroad property, agreed to pay with
other debts up to the extent of a certain fund which was put
into its hands and which was sufficient in amount for that
purpose. The other debts had been fully paid before suit
brought.
"2d. To recover $1731, damages sustained by the construction company (being its payment of the reasonable fees
of an umpire and stenographer) through the breach by the
defendant of an agreement between it and the construction
company to adjust by arbitration the controversy over the
claim first mentioned."

M1EXICAN NATIONAL RAILROAD v. DAVIDSON.

203

Statement of the Case.

And that among the assignments of error duly filed in that
court by the Mexican National Railroad Company were these:
"That the court upon the trial entertained jurisdiction of this
cause. That the court upon the trial entertained jurisdiction
of the first alleged cause of action set forth in the complaint.
That the court upon the trial entertained jurisdiction of the
second alleged cause of action set forth in the complaint."
But that the record showed that no question as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was raised upon the trial, and no
such question was referred to in the findings or opinion of the
Circuit Court.
The portions of sections one and two of the act of March 3,
1887, c. 373, 24 Stat. 552, as corrected by the act of August 13,
1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433, defining the jurisdiction of District
and Circuit Courts of the United States, bearing upon the
questions involved, are as follows:
"SEC. 1. That the Circuit Courts of the United States shall
have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the
several States, of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or
in equity, . . . in which there shall be a controversy
between citizens of different States, in which the matter
in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or
value aforesaid, . . . and no civil suit shall be brought
before either of said courts against any person by any original process or proceeding in any other district than that
whereof he is an inhabitant, but where the jurisdiction is
founded only on the fact that the action is between citizens of
different States, suit shall be brought only in the district of the
residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant; nor shall any
Circuit or District Court have cognizance of any suit, except
upon foreign bills of exchange, to recover the contents of any
promissory note or other chose in action in favor of any assignee, or of any subsequent holder if such instrument be payable to bearer and be not made by any corporation, unless
such suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the said contents if no assignment or transfer had been
made;

.

"SEC. 2.

.
.

.

Any other suit of a civil nature, at law

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

or in equity, of which the Circuit Courts of the United States
are given jurisdiction by the preceding section, and which are
now pending, or which may hereafter be brought, in any state
court, may be removed into the Circuit Court of the United
States for the proper district by the defendant or defendants
therein, being non-residents of that State.
"
.Ur. Treadwell Cleveland for the railroad company.
X /-. Frederic D. AoKeney and -Mr. Edward . Slepard
for Davidson.
MR. CHIEF JUsTicE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court. ,
This action was based as to its first cause upon an alleged
indebtedness of $10-,244.10 existing October 1, 1886, in favor
of the construction company and against the railway company,
with interest. The obligation to pay the indebtedness devolved
upon the railroad company by reason of an agreement, annexed
to the complaint, between the persons to whom the construction company had disposed of the first mortgage bonds of the
railroad company and the construction company. This agreement provided for the foreclosure of the mortgage upon the
property of the railway company and the formation of a new
railroad company under the laws of CoIorado; the conveyance
of the property bid in at foreclosure sale to the new company;
the issue of new first mortgage bonds by the latter company;
the sale of these to a certain amount and from the proceeds of
such sale the deposit with the new railroad company of a sum
not exceeding $217,000 to be applied to liquidate the indebtedness of the railway company. The complaint set forth the
agreement and the proceedings thereunder resulting in the deposit of the sun of $21',000, and alleged that of that sum
"there remains to liquidate the indebtedness of the railway
company " a sum exceeding that for which the complaint demanded judgment. The issue on the merits was therefore
whether the construction company was entitled to recover this

MEXICAN NATIONAL RAILROAD v. DAVIDSON.

205

Opinion of the Court.

claim against the railroad company out of the fund of $21T,000.
Was the action brought, as to its first cause, "to recover the
contents of a chose in action," and could it have been originally brought in the Circuit Court of the United States? If
not, could the jurisdiction be sustained on removal?
The language of section 11 of the judiciary act of 1789,
c. 20, was as follows: " or shall any District or Circuit Court
have cognizance of any suit to recover the contents of any
promissory note or other chose in action in favor of an assignee,
unless a suit might have been prosecuted in such court to
recover the said contents if no assignment had been made."
1 Stat. 78.
In Ser' v. Pilot, 6 Cranch, 332, 335, an action was commenced in the District Court for the District of New Orleans
to foreclose a mortgage given by a citizen of Louisiana to
another citizen of the same State. The plaintiff was the general assignee in insolvency of the mortgagor and was an alien,
and Chief Justice Marshall delivering the opinion of the court
said: "Without doubt, assignable paper, being the chose in
action most usually transferred, was in the mind of the legislature when the law was framed; and the words of the provision are therefore best adapted to that class of assignments.
But there is no reason to believe that the legislature were not
equally disposed to except from the jurisdiction of the Federal
courts those who could sue in virtue of equitable assignments,
and those who could sue in virtue of legal assignments. The
assignee of all the open accounts of a merchant might, under
certain circumstances, be permitted to sue in equity, in his
own name, and there would be as much reason to exclude
him from the Federal courts, as to exclude the same person,
when the assignee of a particular note. The term 'other chose
in action' is broad enough to comprehend either case; and
the word 'contents' is too ambiguous in its import to restrain
that general term. The contents of a note are the sum it
shows to be due; and the same may, without much violence
to language, be said of an account."
In Sheldon v. Sill, 8 How. 441, 449, a bill in equity had
been filed in the Circuit Court of the United States by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.
assignee of a bond and mortgage for a decree of sale of the
mortgaged premises. The mortgagor and mortgagee were
both citizens of Michigan and the assignee was a citizen of
New York. It was held that the court had no jurisdiction,
Mr. Justice Grier saying: "The term 'chose in action' is one
of comprehensive import. It includes the infinite variety of
contracts, covenants, and promises, which confer on one party
a right to recover a personal chattel or a sum of money from
another, by action."
In Gorbin v. County of Blackhawk, 105 U. S. 659, it was
decided that a suit to compel the specific performance of a
contract or to enforce its other stipulations was a suit to
recover the contents of a chose in action, and not maintainable
under section 11 of the act of 1789, as reinacted in section
629 of the Revised Statutes, in the Circuit Court by an assignee if it could not have been prosecuted by the assignor had
no assignment been made. And this was reaffirmed in Shoecraft v. Bloxharn, 12' U. S. 730. lBut while the exception
extended to all actions ex contractu, it has been held not
applicable to a tortious taking or wrongful detention of a
chose in action against the right or title of the assignee
where the injury is one to the right of property in the thing
and the derivation of title unimportant. Desier v. Dodge, 16
Row. 6229, 631; Ambler v. .Eppinger,137 U. S. 480.
In the acts of March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24 Stat. 552, and
August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433, the provision is couched
in these words: "Nor shall any Circuit or District Court have
cognizance of any suit, except upon foreign bills of exchange,
to recover the contents of any promissory note or other chose
in action in favor of any assignee, or of any subsequent holder
if such instrument be payable to bearer and be not made by
any corporation, unless such suit might have been prosecuted
in such court to recover the said contents if no assignment or
transfer had been made." The act of 1875 referred to suits
"founded on contract," but the act of 1887 restored the words
of the act of 1789, "to recover the contents of any promissory
note or other chose in action," and we do not think that the
words, "if such instrument be payable to bearer and be not

MEXICAN NATIONAL RAILROAD v. DAVIDSON.

207

Opinion of the Court.

made by any corporation," limit the comprehensiveness of
"chose in action," as construed under the act of 1789; and as
this cause of action is based on contract we are of opinion
that it is within the definition heretofore ascribed to the
words "to recover the contents of a chose in action." This
being so, it follows that the actioh could not have originally
been brought in the Circuit Court of the United States by
Davidson, the assignee of a Colorado corporation, against a
Colorado corporation.
We inquire then whether the first cause of action was one
of which a Circuit Court of the United States could take cognizance through removal from a state court.
By the 12th section of the judiciary act of 1789 it was provided: "That if a suit be commenced in any state court
against an alien, or by a citizen of the State in which the suit
is brought against a citizen of another State,

.

.

.

and

the defendant shall, at the time of entering his appearance in
such state court, file a petition for the removal of the cause
for trial into the next Circuit Court,

.

.

.

it shall then be

the duty of the state court to accept the surety, and proceed
no further in the cause,

.

.

.

and the cause shall there

proceed in the same manner as if it had been brought there
by original process." And it was held in Green v. Custard,
23 How. 484, and Bushnell v. Eennedy, 9 Wall. 387, that the
restriction of the original jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts in
respect of suits by an assignee, whose assignor could not be
sued in that court, did not apply to a suit removed from a
state court under the 12th section.
By the second section of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137,
18 Stat. 470, the exception out of the original jurisdiction as
to assignees of choses in action occupied the same relative
position as in the act of 1789, and the same conclusion was
reached in regard to it, namely, that the restriction upon the
commencement of suits contained in section 1 did not apply
to the removal of suits under section 2. Clc0in v. Commonwealth Insurance Co., 110 U. S. 81; Delaware County v. Die.bold Safe Co., 133 U. S. 4(73. And see Goldey v. .forning
News, 156 U. S. 5718.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

But the second section of the act of 1887 (as corrected in
1888) contained a radical difference from section 12 of the
act of 1789 and section 2 of the act of 1875 in confining the
suits which might be removed to those "of which the Circuit
Courts of the United States are given original jurisdiction by
the preceding section." As already stated, the last part of
the preceding section provides that no Circuit or District
Court shall have cognizance to recover the contents of a
chose in action in favor of an assignee, unless such suit might
have been prosecuted therein to recover such contents if no
assignment had been made, while the second section provides
for the removal of suits now pending, or which may be hereafter brought in any state court, of which the Circuit Courts
of the United States were given jurisdiction by the first section. This change was made in accordance with that intention to restrict the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, which
has been so often recognized by this court. &mithv. Lyon, 133
U. S. 315, 319 ; 1n re PennsylvaniaCompany, 137 U. S. 451,454;
Fisk v. Hlenarie, 142 U. S. 459, 467; Shaw v. Quincy .Mininq
Company, 145 U. S. 444; Hanrick v. Hanrick, 153 U. S. 192.
We must hold, therefore, as has indeed already been ruled,
Tennessee v. Union & Planters' Bank, 152 U. S. 454, 461,
that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts on removal by the
defendant, under this section, is limited to such suits as might
have been brought in that court by the plaintiff under the
first section. The question is a question of jurisdiction as such
and cannot be waived. Capronv. Fran Yoorden, 2 Craunch, 126;
3fansfIeld Railway Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379; .Jetcalf v.
Watertown, 128 U. S. 586. It is true that by the first section,
where the jurisdiction is founded on diversity of citizenship,
suit is to be brought "only in the district of the residence of
the plaintiff or the defendant," and this restriction is a personal privilege of the defendant, and may be waived by him.
St. Louis & San, FranciscoRailway v. McBride, 141 U. S. 127.
Section two, however, refers to the first part of section one
by which jurisdiction is conferred, and not to the clause relating to the district in which suit may be brought.
Te Cormic
.Machine Co. v. lT'althers, 134 U. S. 41.

CHICAGO &c. RAILROAD CO. v. PONTIUS.

209

Statement of the Case.

As to the second cause of action, the sum sued for was
under the jurisdictional amount.
The result is that, in each case, both questions certifled must
be answered in the negative.

CHICAGO,

KANSAS AND WESTERN
COMPANY v. PONTIUS.

RAILROAD

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 716.Submitted March 4, 1695.-

Decided March 18, 1895.

A bridge carpenter, employed by a railroad company who is injured through
the negligence of employfs of the company while assisting in unloading
lumber, taken from an old bridge, on a car for transportation over the
road, is an employ6 of the company within the meaning of ยง 93, c. 23,
of the General Statutes of Kansas which makes railroad companies in
that State liable to its employ~s for damage done them through the
negligence of its agents or the mismanagement of its employ~s.

MOTION to dismiss or affirm.
Pontius brought an action against the railroad company in
the District Court of Dickinson County, Kansas, to recover for
injuries sustained by him while in the employment of the company, and obtained judgment for $2000. The case was taken
on error to the Supreme Court of the State and the judgment
affirmed, whereupon a writ of error was allowed from this court,
and, the cause having been docketed, a motion to dismiss the
writ or affirm the judgment was submitted.
In the opinion of the Supreme Court of Kansas, reported 52
Kansas, 264, the case is stated thus: "Clifford R. Pontius was
employed by the defendant company as a bridge carpenter
and worked in that capacity at various points on the line of
defendant's road. A bridge was constructed across the Verdigris River, in Greenwood County. The false work used for
support in its construction was taken down, and the timbers of
which it was composed were hoisted and loaded into cars on
the bridge to be transported to some other point on defendant's
VOL. CLVf-14

