OCTOBER TERAT, 1894.
Syllabus.

fendant herein, is a corporation duly incorporated under and
by virtue of the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, and was at
the commencement of this action and still is a citizen of that
State, and was not then, nor has it ever been, a citizen of the
State of Ohio. Third. The matters in controversy in this
suit are wholly between citizens of different States, and the
amount in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum of two
thousand dollars, and is to recover the sum of ten thousand
($10,000) dollars."
The record failed to show of what State plaintiff was a
citizen.
-Mr. Darius .Dirlamfor plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE stated the case, and said: On the
authority of Grace v. American Central nsrance
,
Co., 109
U. S. 278, 283, 284; Continental Insurance Co. v. Rhoads,
119 U. S. 237; and .Mansfield, Coldwater &b Lake .Michigan,
Railway v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 388, the judgment of the
Circuit Court will be reversed, with instructions to remand
the case to the state court with costs against defendant in
error, which must also pay the costs in this court. ifanrick
v. Hanrick, 153 U. S.192, 198.
Judgment reversed accordingly.

BEUTTELL v. MAGONE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 118. Argued December 19, 1595. - Decided March 11, 1895.

A request made to the court by each party to instruct the jury to render
a verdict in his favor, is not equivalent to the submission of the case to
the court without the intervention of a jury, within the intent of Rev.
Stat. §§ 649, 700.

BEUTTELL v. MAGONE.
Statement of the Case.
When each party asks the court to instruct a verdict in his favor, it is
equivalent to a request for a finding of facts, and if the court directs the
jury to find a verdict for one of them, both are concluded on the finding
of facts.
Under the tariff act of March 3,1883, c. 120, rugs made as rugs, and distinguishable as such by reason of their process of manufacture, size,
shape, pattern, etc., were subject to the duty imposed upon rugs; and
rugs made from pieces of carpets or carpetings, to the rate imposed upon
the carpet from which they were made.

IN March, 1887, the plaintiff in error imported a lot of rugs.
They were classed by the custom authorities as "Tournay
velvet carpets," and, as such, held subject to a duty of fortyfive cents per square yard and 30 per cent ad valorem. The
importer protested against this levy, and claimed that the
merchandise was only dutiable at 40 per cent ad valorem.
The collector refusing to entertain the protest, appeal was in
due time prosecuted to the Secretary of the Treasury, and
upon adverse decision suit was brought to recover the difference between the duty enforced by the collector and that
which the importer conceded to be due. The controversy
depends on the proper construction of parts of the tariff act
of March 3, 1883, c. 120, 22 Stat. 487, which was in force at
the time of importation.
On the trial of the case two witnesses were examined, one
the importer, in his own behalf, the other a witness on behalf
of the government. The testimony of the importer was, substantially, to the effect that the rugs in question were not
pieces of carpet or rugs made from pieces of carpet, but were
rugs woven as such; that they were of various sizes, viz.,
thirty-six inches long by eighteen wide, thirty-six inches long
by thirty-six inches wide, fifty-four inches long by twenty-seven
inches wide, sixty-three inches long by thirty-six inches wide,
or seventy-two inches long by forty-four inches wide. The
differences between Wilton carpet and the rugs, as to mode of
manufacture, as to material used, and when completed, were
stated thus: The rugs were made upon a loom of six frames,
whilst Wilton carpet was made upon one of five or less, so
that looms fitted for making the rugs were hnsuited for making
Wilton carpet. The material used in the weft of the rugs was

OCTOBER TERAf, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

different from that which was used in a Wilton carpet, and the
worsted in one was also of a different quality from that used in
the other. The rugs in question, he said, were woven with
cotton backs, in order to make them soft, whilst Wilton carpet
was woven with a jute and linen back. The design of Wilton
carpet and that of the rugs were also stated to be entirely
different, the one being made to match various lengths, the
other being one pattern for the entire rug. He testified that
the rugs were sold by the rug, and not by the yard, and were
called Wilton-Daghestan rugs, because they were "a plush
fabric."
He described a plush fabric as one wherein the
worsted in weaving was cut with a knife, so as to leave a
plush surface, and declared that Saxony, Axminster, Moquette
velvet, and tapestry velvet carpets were also plush fabrics, because their threads were cut so as to make the surfaces like
plush. In this sense there was a similarity between the rugs
in question and Wilton carpet, that is, they were both plush
fabrics, althoilgh in other respects there existed the differences
already recited. The witness, moreover, said that the name
given to the articles " Wilton-Daghestan rugs," in no way indicated that they were made from Wilton carpet, but simply
signified that they were a plush fabric. There were two exhibits in the case which were shown the witness, one a sample
of the rugs in question, and the other a rug or "bedside,"
made from a piece of Wilton carpet; he indicated in these the
differences above pointed out, and also stated the general
similarity which they bore to each other by reason of their
being both "plush fabrics."
The witness for the government, after giving his experience
in the carpet trade, stated that articles like those imported
were known to the trade as " Wilton rugs." He added: "A
Wilton is a Brussels carpet cut. It is a plush carpet more
correctly speaking."
On the close of the testimony, counsel for plaintiff moved
the court to direct a verdict in his favor, "there seeming to
be no material dispute on any point in the case." Counsel
for defendant also asked the court "to direct a verdict for
defendant on the whole case." The court thereupon directed

BEUTTELL v. MAGOIE.
Opinion of the Court.

the jury to find a verdict for defendant. To this instruction
exception was taken and allowed, and the case was thereupon
brought here by error. The bill of exceptions contains all
the evidence. The opinion of the court below is reported in
48 Fed. Rep. 147.
-Mr. Edwin B. Smith for plaintiff in error.
Xir. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The contention is advanced that as each party below requested the court to instruct the jury to return a verdict in
his favor, this was equivalent to a stipulation waiving a jury
and submitting the case to decision of the court. From this
premise two conclusions are deduced; first, that, there being
no written stipulation, the decision below cannot be reviewed
upon writ of error; second, that, even if the request in open
court, made by both parties, be treated as a written stipulation, the correctness of the decision below cannot be examined,
because it is in the form of a general finding on the whole case,
and findings of the court upon the evidence are reviewable
only when they are special.
The request, made to the court by each party to instruct the
jury to render a verdict in his favor, was not equivalent to a
submission of the case to the court, without the intervention
of a jury, within the intendment of Rev. Stat. §§ 649, 700.
As, however, both parties asked the court to instruct a verdict, both affirmed that there was no disputed question of fact
which could operate to deflect or control the question of law.
This was necessarily a request that the court find the facts,
and the parties are, therefore, concluded by the finding made
by the court, upon which the resulting instruction of law was
given. The facts having been thus submitted to the court,
we are limited in reviewing its action, to the consideration of
the correctness of the finding on the law, and must affirm if

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

there be any evidence in support thereof. Lelnen v. Dickson,
148 U. S. 71 ; Runkle v. Burnham, 153 U. S. 216.
There was obviously no disputed question of fact. The
plaintiff introduced proof tending to show that the rugs had
been woven as rugs on a loom prepared for that purpose, and
w1hich was therefore not suitable for weaving carpeting; that
they contained materials used in making rugs which were not
the kind or quality of materials used in making carpets; that
their size, shape, pattern, back, and other qualities made them
distinctly rugs eo nomine as distinguished from rugs made
"from portions of carpet or carpeting." From this evidence
was deduced the conclusion of law that they were dutiable as
rugs at 40 per cent ad valorem. Defendant's testimony tended
to show that the rugs were called Wilton rugs, were a plush
fabric, (which was not traversed by the plaintiff's testimony,)
and hence were of a "like character and description" with
Wilton carpet. Upon these facts the defendant based his
claim that as matter of law they were dutiable at the rate
imposed on such carpets. From this undisputed evidence,
then, arose the legal question whether rugs of the kind stated,
not being "portions of carpet or carpeting," were taxable as
Wilton carpets, because they were of like character or description, that is, because they were plush fabrics. Wilton carpets
were also a plush fabric. The correctness of the ruling below
depends upon an interpretation of the language of the statute
which we quote:
"Saxony, Wilton, and Tournay velvet carpets forty-five
cents a square yard, and in addition thereto 30 per centum ad
valorem. . . . Carpets and carpetings of wool, flax, or cotton, or parts of either, or other material not otherwise herein
specified, 40 per centum ad valorem; and mats, rugs, screens,
covers, hassocks, bedsides, and other portions of carpets and
carpetings shall be subjected to the rate of duty herein
imposed on carpets or carpeting of like character or description; and the duty on all other mats not exclusively of
vegetable material, screens, hassocks, and rugs shall be forty
per centum ad valorem." 22 Stat. 509, 510.
It is clear that rugs in the generic sense are specifically

BEUTTELL v. MAGONE.
Opinion of the Court.

dutiable as such under the foregoing provisions. The imposition of a different duty on rugs of a particular kind is an
exception to the general rule established by the statute. The
exception is as "to rugs, screens, covers, hassocks, bedsides,
and other portions of carpets and carpetings," which are made
to pay the duty imposed on "carpets and carpetings of like
character and description." The obvious construction of this
language is that which makes the words "other portions of
carpets and carpetings" qualify the enumerated articles, and
of course if they be thus construed, only rugs made from
"portions of carpets and carpetings" would be subject to the
exceptional classification.
It is urged that this interpretation is erroneous, because the
limiting words "other portions of carpets and carpetings"
simply qualify the last of the enumerated articles, that is, the
word "bedside," and none other. It is self-evident that the
qualifying words must be held to relate to some of the items
embraced in the enumeration which they qualify. To hold
otherwise would be to read them out of the statute. Do they
qualify all or "One is the question. To hold that they qualify
only one of the items of the enumeration is to make that item
an exception, and therefore make the statute operate an
absurdity. If the qualifying words only apply to "bedsides,"
then all the other items enumerated, viz., "mats, rugs, screens,
covers, and hassocks," are dutiable at the rate imposed on
"carpets and carpetings of like character and description,"
although they be not made from "other portions of carpets
and carpetings," whilst "bedsides," whatever may be their similarity to "carpets or carpetings," will only be dutiable at the
rate of carpets and carpetings if made from pieces of carpets.
It cannot be supposed the intention of the statute was to
operate this inequality or to work out this unjust result. The
articles are all enumerated together, and the manifest purpose
is that all of them shall pay a like duty under similar conditions. We cannot violate the express language in order to
dissociate things classed together by the law, and thus make
one of the class subject to a higher duty than the others,
although they be of like character and description.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

We think the purpose of the statute, plainly conveyed by
its text, was to tax carpets as enumerated therein. That the
effect of its language and its intent were also to tax rugs,
made as rugs, and clearly distinguishable as such, by reason
of their process of manufacture, size, shape, pattern, etc., at
the duty imposed on rugs, but to tax rugs made from pieces
of carpets or carpetings at the rate imposed on the carpet
from which they were made, since, although answering the
purpose of a rug, they were really carpeting itself, being
made from parts or portions thereof. A construction contrary to that which we thus reach having been adopted by
the court below, its judgment is
R~eversed, and the case remanded with directions to granta
new trial.

FRISBIE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

S'IATES

FOR TIE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 811.

Argued aud submitted March 4, 155.- Decided March 1$, 1895.

The omission of the formal indorsement of an indictment as "a true bill,"
signed by the foreman of the grand jury, is not necessarily and under all
circumstances fatal, although it is advisable that the indictment should
be endorsed.
Such a defect is waived if the objection be not made in the first instance
and before trial.
Pleading to an indictment admits its genuineness as a record.
The provision in the act of-June 27, 1890, c. 634, 26 Stat. 182, forbidding an
agent, attorney, or other person engaged in preparing, presenting, or prosecuting a claim for a pension under that act from demanding or receiving a greater fee than ten dollars for his services is constitutional.
An indictment for violating that provision which describes the defendant
as a "lawyer" is sufficient.
The offence against that act is committed when a sum greater than ten
dollars has been taken, without regard to the fact whether the pension
money has or has not been received.
When the amount of the excess so taken is unknown to the grand jury, it
is proper to allege that fact in the indictment.

