BERGEMANN ?7. BACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

BERGEMANN v. BACKER.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 709. Submitted March 5, 1895.-- Decided April 1, 1S95.

When a prisoner is indicted in a state court for murder, it is for the courts
of the State to decide whether the indictment sufficiently charges that
crime in the first degree.
In view of the decisions by the highest court of New Jersey, referred to in
the opinion, declaring the meaning and scope of the statutes of that
State under which the accused was prosecuted, it cannot be held that he
was proceeded against under an indictment based upon statutes denying
to him the equal protection of the laws, or that were inconsistent with
due process of law, as prescribed by the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution.
The refusal by the state court to grant a writ of error to a person convicted
of murder, or to stay the execution of a sentence, will not warrant a court
of the United States in interfering in his behalf by writ of habeas
corpus.
When a state court has jurisdiction of the offence and the accused under an
indictment found under statutes of the State not void under the Constitution of the United States, and proceeds to judgment under such statutes, a Circuit Court of the United States has no authority to interfere
with the execution of the sentence by means of a writ of habeas corpus.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Xr. Wlliam D. Daly, -Mr,. Thomas J O'Bqvien, and Mrb'.
James J. Furey for appellant.

-M'. J S. Salmon for appellee.
M R. JusTcE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellant, August Bergemann, was convicted in the Court
of Oyer and Terminer of Morris County, New Jersey, of the
crime of murder in the first degree under an indictment, charging that, on a day and within the county named, he "did
wilfully, feloniously, and of his malice aforethought kill and
murder" one Julius Bergemann, "contrary to the form of the

OCTOBER TER-K, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

statute in such case made and provided, and against the peace
of the State, the government and dignity of the same."
Being in custody of the sheriff, awaiting the time fixed for
his execution under a sentence of death, he presented his petition to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of New Jersey, representing that he had applied to all the
courts of the State having power in the premises .to stay his
said execution, and for a writ of error to review the judgment
of conviction, but his application had been denied; that the
indictment against him charged the crime of murder of the
second degree, and not murder of the first degree; that he
was not informed of the crime of murder of the first degree
by any indictment, "as by the Constitution and laws of the
land he should have been so charged before he could have been
convicted thereof ;" that "he ought not to have been sentenced to death, as the said court was without jurisdiction in
the premises, and could not have imposed said judgment under
said indictment according to the Constitution and law of the
land;" and that "the said conviction and the judgment of said
court thereon was in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States, in that he was denied
the equal protection of the laws, as contemplated by said
amendment, and the Sixth Amendment, which requires that
the defendant shall be informed of the nature and cause of the
accusation made against him."
Upon these grounds he prayed that a writ of h abeas corpus
be issued. The application for the writ having been denied,
he prayed, and was allowed, an appeal pursuant to the statute.
The application for the writ of habeas compus was properly
denied. The Court of Oyer and Terminer had jurisdiction both
of the offence charged and of the accused. Rev. Stats. N. J.
1877, 272, ยง 30.
Whether the indictment sufficiently charged the crime of
murder in the first degree was for that court to determine.
Caldwel v. Texas, 137 U. S. 692, -698.

Nor is there any ground for the contention that the laws of
New Jersey prescribing the form of indictments in cases of
murder or manslaughter are inconsistent with the due process

BERGEMANN v. BACKEIt.
Opinion of the Court.

of law, or the equal protection of the laws required by the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States. By the sixty-eighth section of the New Jersey Crimes
Act it is provided: "All murder which shall be perpetrated
by means of poison, or by lying in wait, or by any other kind
of wilful, deliberate, and premeditated killing, or which shall be
committed in perpetrating, or attempting to perpetrate, any
arson, rape, sodomy, robbery or burglary, shall be deemed
murder of the first degree; and all other kinds of murder shall
be deemed murder of the second degree; and the jury before
whom any person indicted for murder shall be tried shall, if they
find such person guilty thereof, designate by their verdict
whether it be murder of the first or second degree." Rev. Stats.
N. J. 1877, 239, ยง 68. And by the forty-fifth section of the
Criminal Procedure Act it is provided: "In any indictment for
murder or manslaughter it shall not be necessary to set forth
the manner in which, or the means by which, the death of the
deceased was caused, but it shall be sufficient in every indictment
for murder to charge that the defendant did wilfully, feloniously,
and of his malice aforethought kill and murder the deceased;
and it shall be sufficient in every indictment for manslaughter
to charge that the defendant did feloniously kill and slay the
deceased." Rev. Stats. N. J. 1877, 275, ยง 45.
In Graves v. State,. 45 N. J. Law, 203, it was held that an
indictment charging, in a general form, the perpetration of a
murder, without indicating which of the two felonies into
which that offence was divided by the statute, was sufficient
to fulfil the constitutional requirement of informing the defendant of the nature and cause of the accusation against him.
The effect of the statute, Chief Justice Beasley said, was neither
to add any case to nor take any case froni the class of crimes
which, at common law, was denominated murder, for every
act that was murder at common law was still murder in New
Jersey. What the statute effected, he said, was to distribute
the offence into two classes for the sake of adjusting the punishment. In the same case in the Court of Errors and Appeals,
45 N. J. Law, 347, 358, Chancellor Runyon, after observing
that the legislature, in declaring what shall constitute murder
VOL. cLii--42

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

in the first degree, and what murder of the second, created no
new crimes, but merely made a distinction with a view to a
difference in the punishment between the most heinous and
the less aggravated grades of the crime of murder, said:
"When the legislature, commendably simplifying the form of
the indictment, provided that in charging the crime it should
not be necessary to set forth the manner in which or the means
whereby the death was caused, but that it should be sufficient
to charge that the defendant wilfully, feloniously and of his
malice aforethought, killed and murdered the deceased, it
merely provided that in a charge of murder, a crime well understood and defined in the law, it should be enough to charge
the crime in language sufficient to designate it. . . . According as he shall or shall not be proved to have committed
the crime of murder, he shall be convicted or acquitted; and
if convicted, according as it shall be proved that he committed
it under the circumstances which characterize the one degree or the other, so it will be found or adjudged with a view
to his punishment, and he will be punished accordingly. No
right of the defendant was violated, nor any privilege of his
disregarded or contravened by convicting him of murder of
the first degree on an indictment which described the crime according to the statutory form." Substantially the same views
were expressed by this court in respect of a similar statute in
force in the Territory of Utah. -Davisv. Utah Territory, 151
U. S. 262, 266, et seq.
In view of these decisions, declaring the meaning and scope
of the statutes under which the accused was prosecuted, it cannot be held that he was proceeded against under an indictment
based upon statutes denying to him the equal protection of the
laws, or that were inconsistent with due process of law, as prescribed by the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States.
It is equally clear that the refusal of the courts of New
Jersey to grant the accused a writ of error or to stay the
execution of the sentence passed upon him constituted no
reason for interference in his behalf by a writ of habeas
cojpus issued by a court of the United States.

KEELER v. STANDARD FOLDING BED CO.
Syllabus.

If the proceedings in the Court of Oyer and Terminer could
not, under the laws of New Jersey, be reviewed in a higher
court of that State, except upon the allowance of a writ of
error by such court or by some judge, and if such allowance
was refused, then the judgment of the court of original jurisdiction was, within the meaning of the acts of Congress, the
judgment of the highest court of the State in which a determination of the case could be had, and such judgment could
have been, upon writ of error, reexamined here, if it had
denied any right, privilege, or immunity specially set up and
claimed under the Constitution of the United States. Gregory
v. icVeigh, 23 Wall. 294, 306; Fisher v. Perkins, 122 U. S.
522, 526.
If an indictment in a state court, under statutes not void
under the Constitution of the United States be defective,
according to the essential principles of criminal procedure, an
error in rendering judgment upon it - even if the accused at
the trial objected to it as insufficient - should not be made
the basis of jurisdiction in a court of the United States to issue
a writ of habeas coTus. The court below having had jurisdiction of the offence and of the accused, and having proceeded
under a statute not repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, the Circuit Court of the United States had no authority to interfere, by means of a writ of habeas corpus, with the
execution of the sentence. Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S. 272;
JTNew York v. Eno, 155 U. S.89, 98.
The judgment is

Affrmed.
KEELER

STANDARD FOLDING BED COIPANY.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 52.

Submitted March 20, 1894.-Decided April 8, 1895.

One who buys patented articles of manufacture from one authorized to sell
them at the place where they are sold becomes possessed of an absolute
property in such articles, unrestricted in time or place.

