OCTOBER TERiME, 1894.
Syllabus.

Tfie judgment is reversed and the cause remanded with
directions to overrule the demurrer, and for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

The decision in this and the preceding case control cases 168, 169,
170, 171, the title of each of those cases being United States v.
Salisbury. The judgment in each case is reversed and the cause
remanded with directions to overrule the demurrer and put the
defendant to his answer.
Reversed.

THE CALEDONIA.'
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 107. Argued December 12, 18, 104.-Decided March 11, 1895.

In every contract for the carriage of goods by sea, unless otherwise expressly stipulated, there is a warranty on the part of the shipowner that
the ship is seaworthy at the time of beginning her voyage, and not merely
that lie does not know her to be unseaworthy, or that lie has used his
best efforts to make her seaworthy; and this being so, his undertaking is
not discharged because the want of fitness is the result of latent defects.
A bill of lading whereby a steamship owner undertakes to deliver live
cattle at a foreign port, loss or damage from delays, steam boilers and
machinery or defects therein excepted, does not exempt him from liability under such warranty for injury happening to the cattle through an unexpected prolongation of the voyage, in consequence of a breaking of
the shaft caused by a latent defect in it, which existed before and at the
commencement of the voyage.
Exceptions in a bill of lading are to be construed most strongly against the
shipowner; and when they form, in the contract, part of long enumerations of excepted causes of damage, all the rest of which relate to matters
subsequent to the beginning of the voyage, they must be treated as
equally limited in their scope.
As between the shipper and the shipowner, the bill of lading only can be
considered as the contract.
I The docket title of this case is "James Henderson el al., Claimants of
the Steamship Caledonia, v. Goldsmith."

THE CALEDONIA.
Statement of the Case.

THis was a libel in admiralty by a shipper of cattle against
the steamship Caledonia to recover damages caused by the
breaking of her shaft. The District Court decreed in favor of
libellant, 50 Fed. Rep. 567, and claimants appealed. The Circuit Court found the following facts and conclusions of law:
"This was a libel in admiralty, in a cause of contract, civil
and maritime, by a shipper of cattle against the steamship
Caledonia, to recover damages caused by the breaking of her
shaft.
"The Caledonia was one of the Anchor line of transatlantic
steamships, owned and employed by the claimants, Henderson
Brothers, as common carriers. The plaintiff was a dealer in
and exporter of cattle.
"The terms of the contract between the parties were as
expressed in the following memorandum of agreement, made
before the shipment of the cattle, and in the following bill of
lading signed at the time of shipment, and afterwards accepted
by the libellant:
"-Memorandun-

of Agreement.

"'Concluded at New York, the twenty-fifth day of May, 1885,
between Messrs. Henderson Brothers, 7 Bowling Green,
New York, agents of the steamer Caledonia, hereinafter
described as the party of the first part, and Mr. M. Goldsmith
of New York, hereinafter described as the shipper of the
second part.
"' The agents of the steamer agree to let to said shipper
suitable space, as under noted, for the transportation of live
cattle, that is to say : On the steamship Caledonia, for about
two hundred and seventy-five to three hundred head of cattle
on and under decks. Steamer expected to sail from Boston
for London about eleventh of June. The agents agree to fit
the stalls in the style customary at the port of Boston, to the
satisfaction of inspectors of Boston insurance companies, and
the shipper, who will assume all responsibility for same, and
for various appliances of ventilation, after shipment of the
cattle; and the steamer Caledonia undertakes to supply sufficient good condensed water for the use of the animals during

OCTOBER TERM,

1894.

Statement of the Case.

the voyage. All water casks, buckets, hose and similar appliances must be put on board by shipper of the cattle.
"' A reasonable supply of fodder for the animals will-be carried by the steamship Oaledonia, free of freight: but freight
if demanded shall be payable on any unusual excess of fodder
landed at port of destination. Hay and straw to be in compressed bales.
"' The steamer Caledonia will also furnish free steerage passage for attendants (not exceeding one man to every thirty
cattle) over, and return, providing them with the necessary
utensils for the voyage.
"'The agents of the steamer agree to notify the said shipper, at least six days in advance, of the intended departure of
the steamship, and, twelve hours prior to sailing, of the day
and hour. In event of shipper failing to deliver the cattle to
steamship within twenty-four hours after expiry of due notice,
as aforementioned, steamer is to have liberty to sail, and
freight is to be paid in full by the party of the second part.
'1The steamer Caledonia agrees to deliver bhe cattle at Deptford, and the shipper agrees to bear tonnage, dock or shed dues
when incurred. The cattle are to be delivered and received
from steamship's decks immediately on arrival at the port of
destination.
"' The shipper agrees to ship all the cattle the steamship
can carry as above mentioned, paying freight on same at the
rate of forty-five shillings British sterling per bullock, for all
cattle shipped.
"'The shipper agrees to prepay freight on the above-mentioned shipments in current funds at first-class bankers, selling
rate for sight exchange, on the number of cattle shipped at
Boston, vessel lost or not lost, and irrespective of the number
landed at the port of destination; and the shipper assumes
all risk of mortality or accident, however caused, throughout
the voyage.
"' The shipper agrees to deliver the cattle on the date and
hour ordered by the agents of the steamer, or pay demurrage
of the steamship for all, or any detention incurred by his
failure to do so.

THE CALEDONIA.'
Statement of the Case.
"' In case of non-arrival of vessel in time to sail from Boston,
on or before 18th June, shipper has option of cancellation.
Any dispute arising on this contract to be settled by arbitration in the usual way in Boston.
"HENDERSON

BROTHERS.'

Cattle Bill of Lading.
Shipped alive, by 3K. Goldsmith, and at shipper's risk, in
and upon the steamship called the Caledonia, now lying in
the port of Boston and bound for London, two hundred and
seventy-four head live cattle, to be delivered from the ship's
deck at the aforesaid port of London; the act of God, the
Queen's enemies, pirates, restraint of princes and rulers, perils
of the seas, rivers, navigation and land transit, of whatever
nature or kind, restrictions at port of discharge, loss or damage
from delays, collision, straining, explosion, heat, fire, steam
boilers and machinery or defects therein, transshipment, escape,
accidents, suffocation, mortality, disease or deterioration in
value, negligence, default or error in judgment of pilots,
master, mariners, engineers, stevedores, or any other person
in the employ of the steamship or of the owners or their
agents, excepted; with liberty to sail with or without pilots,
to tow and assist vessels in all situations, to call at any port
or ports to receive fuel, load or discharge cargo, or for any
other purpose; and in the event of the steamship's putting
back to Boston or into any other port, or being prevented
from any cause from proceeding in the ordinary course of
her voyage, to transship by any other steamer unto order or
to his or their assigns.
"' Freight for the said stock to be paid without any allowance of credit or discount, at the rate of £2. 5. 0. sterling for
each animal shipped on deck, and £2. 5. 0. sterling for each animal shipped under deck, whether delivered or not, vessel lost
or not lost, cattle jettisoned in all or in part, or otherwise lost,
with average accustomed. In the event of the loss of the
vessel, of her not arriving at the said port, or of the consignee
neglecting to pay the freight upon the arrival of the vessel,
or neglecting to pay the charges and expenses herein men-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

tioned, tue shipper, in consideration of the waiving of the
payment of the freight in advance, hereby binds and obligates
himself to pay the freight above expressed, and such charges
and expenses upon demand.
"' It is also stipulated and agreed by the shipper, as a condition of the shipment, that he will take charge of the stock
during the voyage, the vessel furnishing water only; that he
has examined the condition of the steamer, the construction
of the stalls and the means of ventilation, and approved of
the same, and that no claim shall be made for any loss or
damage resulting therefrom; that any mortality, sickness or
deterioration in the condition of the stock shall be presumed
to arise from the condition of the animals when shipped, or
from natural causes.
"'Consignees to enter the property at the custom-house
within twenty-four hours after the ship is reported there,
and to remove the same immediately upon being landed,
otherwise the property may be discharged by the agents of
the ship at the expense and risk of the shipper or consignee
of cargo. Porterage of the delivery of the cargo to be done
by agents of the ship, at the expense and risk of the receivers.
Lighterage, tonnage and shed dues payable by the receivers.
This bill of lading, duly endorsed, to be given up to the ship
agents, in exchange for delivery order.
"'In witness whereof, the master, purser, or agents of the
said ship hath affirmed to three bills of lading, all of this tenor
and date, one of which bills being accomplished, the others to
stand void.
"' In accepting this bill of lading, the shipper, as owner, or
agent of the owner of the property shipped, expressly accepts
and agrees to all its stipulations, exceptions, and conditions,
whether written or printed.
Dated in Boston, _ass., 15th June, 1885.
J. MmILE

STEWA-RT,

"'For the Agents.'
"On Monday, June 15, 1885, the libellant shipped on board
the Caledonia at Boston, to be delivered at Deptford, two

THE CALEDONIA
Statement of the Case.

•hundred and seventy-four head of cattle in good order and
condition; and put on board fodder sufficient for a voyage of
fifteen days (a day or two more than the usual length of
voyage), being all the fodder that by the usage of the business
he was bound to provide. On the morning of June 24, the
ninth day out from Boston, in smooth weather, the propeller
shaft of the Caledonia broke straight across in the stem tube.
There had been no heavy weather on this voyage,.and the
propeller did not strike against any rock or derelict or other
object. The cause of the breaking of the shaft was its having
been weakened by meeting with extraordinarily heavy seas
on previous voyages. At the time of leaving Boston on June
15, the shaft was in fact unfit for the voyage, and by reason
of its unfitness the vessel was unseaworthy. No defect in the
shaft was visible or could have been detected by the usual
and reasonable means, if the shaft had been taken out and
examined. No negligence on the part of the owners of the
steamship was proved.
"By reason of the breaking of the shaft, the voyage lasted
twenty-five days, and the cattle were put on short allowance
of food, and in consequence thereof were landed at Deptford
in the afternoon of Monday, July 20, in an emaciated condition.
"The market days in London were Mondays and Thursdays.
By the usual course of the business of shipping live cattle from
Boston to Deptford for the London market, and, in accordance
with the knowledge and contemplation of both parties at the
time of the execution of the memorandum of agreement and
the bill of lading, the cattle were not to be sold before arrival,
and were sold at the first market after their arrival.
"The amount of the damages suffered by the libellant was
as stated in the following agreement, signed and filed by the
counsel of the parties :
"'Itis hereby agreed that the whole amount of damages
suffered by the libellant (exclusive of interest) arose from two
sources of loss: shrinkage in the weight of cattle from the
protracted voyage, and fall in the market value of the cattle
during the delay in arrival; and that these two causes together
made the loss seven thousand eight hundred and fifty dollars,
VOL.

CLVII-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

and that one half thereof, to wit, three thousand nine hundred
and twenty-five dollars, was and is to be attributed to each
cause.'
" Conclusions of Law.
"There was a warranty that the vessel was seaworthy at
the time of sailing from Boston. This warranty was not
affected by the exceptions in the bill of lading. The breach
of the warranty was the cause of all the damage claimed.
The libellant is entitled to recover $7850 and interest."
The Circuit Court thereupon entered a final decree for the
sum. so found, together with interest and costs. The opinion
is reported in 43 Fed. Rep. 681. Claimants appealed to this
court.
Mr. George Putnam for appellants.
.Mr. Henry M. Rogers for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUsTIcE- FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
In Te Edwzin . forrison, 153 U. S. 199, 210, the language
of Mr. Justice Gray, delivering the opinion of the Circuit Court
in the present case, was quoted with approval, to this effect:
"In every contract for the carriage of goods by sea, unless
otherwise expressly stipulated, there is a warranty on the
part of the shipowner that the ship is seaworthy at the time
of beginning her voyage, and not merely that be does not
know her to be unseaworthy, or that he has used his best
efforts to make her seaworthy. The warranty is absolute
that the ship is, or shall be, in fact seaworthy at that time,
and does not depend on his knowledge or ignorance, his care or
negligence."
After renewed consideration of the subject, in the light of
the able arguments presented at the bar, we see no reason to
doubt the correctness of the rule thus enunciated.
The proposition that the warranty of seaworthiness exists
by implication in all contracts for sea carriage, we do not

THE CALEDONIA.
Opinion of the Court.

understand to be denied; but it is insisted that the warranty
is not absolute, and does not cover latent defects not ordinarily
susceptible of detection. If this were so, the obligation resting on the shipowner would be, not that the ship should be fit,
but, that he had honestly done his best to make her so. We
cannot concur in this view.
In our opinion, the shipowner's undertaking is not merely
that he will do and has done his best to make the ship fit, but
that the ship is really fit to undergo the perils of the sea and
other incidental risks to which she must be exposed in the
course of the voyage; and, this being so, that undertaking is
not discharged because the want of fitness is the result of
latent defects.
The necessity of this conclusion is made obvious when we
consider the settled rule in respect of insurance, for it is clear
that the undertaking as to seaworthiness of the shipowner to
the shipper is coextensive with that of the shipper to his
insurer.
That rule is thus given by Parsons (1 Marine Insurance,
367): "Every person who proposes to any insurers to insure
his ship against sea perils, during a certain voyage, impliedly
warrants that his ship is, in every respect, in a suitable condition to proceed and continue on that voyage, and to encounter
all common perils and dangers with safety. . . . This warranty is strictly a condition precedent to the obligation of insurance ; if it be not performed, the policy does not attach ;
and, if this condition be broken, at the inception of the risk in
any way whatever and from any cause whatever, there is no
contract of insurance, the policy being wholly void."
In E7o~pitqf v. Wilson, 1 Q. B. D. 377, 379, 381, although, as
there was no necessity to consider the law as to latent defects,
whether such defects would constitute an exception cannot be
said to have been passed on, the general rule was laid down as
we have stated it, and the existence of the warranty in question on the part of a shipowner was asserted with reference to
his character as such, and not as existing only in those cases
in which he is also acting as a carrier. That was an action in
which the plaintiff sought to recover damages for the loss of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

large number of weighty iron armor plates and bolts, one of
the plates having broken loose and gone through the side of
the ship, which, in consequence, went down in deep water and
was totally lost with all hercargo. The case was tried before
Blackburn, J., who told the jury as matter of law that the
shipowner warranted the fitness of his ship when she sailed,
and not merely that he had honestly and in good faith
endeavored to make her fit, and left the following questions to
the jury: "Was the vessel at the time of her sailing in a state,
as regards the stowing and receiving of these plates, reasonably
fit to encounter the ordinary perils that might be expected on
a voyage at that season from Hull to Cronstadt? Second.
If she was not in a fit state, was the loss that happened
caused by that unfitness ?" The' rule for new trial was discharged in view of the warranty by implication that the ship
was in a condition to perform the voyage then about to be
undertaken, and Field, J., among other things, said: "It
appears to us, also, that there are good grounds in reason and
common sense for holding such to be the law. It is well and
firmly established that in every marine policy the assured
comes under an implied warranty of seaworthiness to his
assurer, and if we were to hold that he has not the benefit of
a similar implication in a contract which he makes with a shipowner for the carriage of his goods, the consequence would be
that he would lose that complete indemnity against risk and
loss, which it is the object and purpose to give him by the two
contracts taken together. Holding as we now do, the result
is, that the merchant, by his contract with the shipowner,
having become entitled to have a ship to carry his goods
warranted fit for that purpose, and to meet and struggle
against the perils of the sea, is, by his contract of assurance,
protected against the damage arising from such perils acting
upon a seaworthy ship."
This was the view expressed by Mr. Justice Brown, then
District Judge, in The Eugene Vesta, 28 Fed. Rep. 762, '763,
in which he said: "The r e can be no doubt that there is an
implied warranty on the part of the carrier that his vessel
shall be seaworthy, not only when she begins to take cargo

THE CALEDONIA.
Opinion of the Court.

on board, but when she breaks ground for the voyage. The
theory of the law is that the implied warranty of seaworthiness shall protect the owner of the cargo until his policy of
insurance commences to run; and, as it is well settled that the
risk under the policy attaches only from the time the vessel
breaks ground, this is fixed as the point up to which the warranty of seaworthiness extends." And the case of Cohn v.
-Davidson,2 Q. B. D. 455, 461, was cited, where it appeared
that. the ship was not in fact seaworthy at the time she set
sail, but that as she was found to be seaworthy at the time
she commenced to take cargo, she must have received the
damage in the course of loading; and Field, J., observed that
"no degree of seaworthiness for the voyage at any time
anterior to the commencement of the risk will be of any
avail to the assured, unless that seaworthiness existed at the
time of sailing from the port of loading. As, therefore, the
merchant in a case like the present would not be entitled to
recover against his underwriter by reason of the breach of
warranty in sailing in an unseaworthy ship, it would follow
that, if the warranty to be implied on the part of the shipowner is to be exhausted by his having the ship seaworthy at
an anterior period, the merchant would lose that complete
indemnity, by means of the two contracts taken together,
which it is the universal habit and practice of mercantile
men to endeavor to secure."
The reasons for the strict enforcement of the warranty, in
insurance, have frequently been commented on.
In -Douglassv. Scougall, 4 Dow, 269, 2T6, Lord Eldon said:
"I have often had occasion to observe here, that there is
nothing in matters of insurance of more importance than the
implied warranty that a ship is seaworthy when she sails on
the voyage insured; and I have endeavored, both with a view
to the benefit of commerce and the preservation of human life,
to enforce that doctrine as far as, in the exercise of sound discretion, I have been enabled to do so. It is not necessary to
inquire, whether the owners acted honestly and fairly in the
transaction; for it is clear law that, however just and honest
the intentions and conduct of the owner may be, if he is mis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

taken in the fact, and the vessel is in fact not seaworthy, the
underwriter is not liable."
Similarly, Mr. Justice Curtis, in Bullai'd v. Roger Williams
Insurance Company, 1 Curtis, 148, 155, stated in his charge to
the jury : "There is an implied warranty connected with
marine policies that the vessel, at the outset of her voyage,
is seaworthy for the voyage in which she is insured. This
obligation is imposed, by law, on the insured for sound reasons. It takes away all temptation to expose life and property to the dangers of the seas in vessels not fitted to encounter
or avoid them. It is not a contract that the owner will use
diligence to make his vessel seaworthy, but an absolute warranty that she is seaworthy, and if broken the policy is made
void." And -r. Justice Story, in The Schooner ]?eeside, 2
Sumner, 567, 575, declared "every relaxation of the common
law in relation to the duties and responsibilities of the owners
of carrier ships to be founded in bad policy and detrimental to
the general interests of commerce."
As the same warranty implied in respect of policies of insurance exists in respect of contracts of affreightment, that warranty is necessarily as absolute in the one instance asin the other.
In Putnam v. Wood, 3 Mass. 481, 485, the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts, speaking through Parker, J., said: "It
is the duty of the owner of a ship, when he charters her or puts
her up for freight, to see that she is in a suitable condition to
transport her cargo in safety; and he is to keep her in that
condition, unless prevented by perils of the sea or unavoidable
accident. If the goods are lost by reason of any defect in the
vessel, whether latent or visible, known or unknown, the owner
is answerable to the freighter, upon the principle that he tacitly contracts that his vessel shall be fit for the use for which he
thus employs her. This principle governs, not only in charter
parties and in policies of insurance; but it is equally applicable
in contracts of affreightment."
This early case is cited by Chancellor Kent, who affirms the
doctrine in these words: "The ship must be fit and competent
for the sort of cargo and the particular service in which she is
engaged. If there should be a latent defect in the vessel, un-

THE CALEDONIA.

135

Opinion of the Court.

known to the owner and not discoverable upon examination,
yet, the better opinion is that the owner must answer for the
damage caused by the defect. It is an implied warranty in
the contract, that the ship be sound for the voyage, and the
owner, like a common carrier, is an insurer against everything
but the excepted perils." 3 Kent, *205.
The high authority of Lord Tenderden, (Abbott on Shipping,
1st ed. 146,) Lord Ellenborough, (Lyon v. -M£ells, 5 East, 428,)
Mr. Baron Parke, (Gibson v. Small, 4 H. L. C. 353, 404,) and
Lord Blackburn (Steel v. State Line Steamship Co., 3 App. Cas.
72, 86) may be invoked in support of this view, and it is sustained by decisions of this court; The Northern Belle, 9 Wall.
526; Wor v. Leathers, 97 U. S. 579; preceding that of T]ie
Edwin I..Morrison,supra, which in terms adopts it. The point
was distinctly ruled in The Glenfruin, 10 P. D. 103. There a
steamship laden with cargo became disabled at sea in consequence of the breaking of her crank shaft. Such breakage was
caused by a latent defect in the shaft, arising from a flaw in the
welding, which it was impossible to discover. It was held that
under his implied warranty of seaworthiness a shipowner con.tracts, not merely that he will do his best to make the ship
reasonably fit, but that she shall really be reasonably fit for
the voyage, and that as, when the Glenfruin started, the shaft
was not reasonably fit for the voyage, she was unseaworthy
and the owner was liable; and Lyon v. _zlells, 5 East, 428;
JIopitqf v. Wilson, 1 Q. B. D. 177; Steel v. State Line Steamship Co., 3 App. Gas. 72, were referred to.
Again, in The cargo ex Laertes, 12 P. D. 187, a steamship became disabled at sea owing to the breaking of her flywheel shaft through a flaw in the welding existing at the
commencement of the voyage, but not discoverable by the
exercise of any reasonable care, and it was held that she was
not seaworthy for the voyage, and that but for a limitation,
on the implied warranty, in the bills of lading, there would
have been a breach.
The point is thus put by Judge Brown, of the Southern
District of New York, in Thie Rover, 33 Fed. Rep. 515, 516:
"This warranty extends to latent defects not discoverable by

OCTOBER TERMf, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

prior examination. Either the ship or the freighter must bear
such risks; under the warranty of seaworthiness the law places
this risk upon the ship and her owner." And see The Lizzie
TT.Vi 'en, 19 Blatchford, 340, Blatchford, J.; The Ca'ib
Prince, 63 Fed. Rep. 266, Benedict, J.; Whitall v. Brig Villiamb -enry, 4 Louisiana, 223; Talco v. Commercial Ins. Co., 2
Johns. 124-, 128.
It is urged that doubt is thrown upon the doctrine by the reasoning in Readhead v. .Midland Railway Co., L. R. 4Q. B. 39;
L. R. 2 Q. B. 412. There a passenger sought to charge a common carrier for an injury occasioned by the breaking of an axle
by reason of a hidden flaw ; and the Court of Exchequer Chamber held that a contract made by a general carrier of passengers for hire with a passenger is to take due care (including
in that terni the use of skill and foresight) to carry the passenger safely, and is not a warranty that the carriage in
which he travels shall be free froin all defects likely to cause
peril, although those defects were such that no skill, care, or
foresight could have detected their existence. But the court
was careful to point out the broad distinction between the
liabilities of common carriers of goods and of passengers, and
in the case at bar the shipowner was not only liable as such,
but as a common carrier, and subject to the responsibilities of
that relation.
The case was decided in 1869, and those of The Glenfruin,
and Tie Laerles in 1885 and 1887, yet the latter rulings seem
to have been accepted without question, and were certainly
unaffected by any attempt to apply a rule in respect of roadworthiness in the carriage of passengers by a railroad to the
warranty of seaworthiness in the carriage of goods by a ship.
In our judgment the Circuit Court rightly held that the
warranty was absolute; that the Caledonia was unseaworthy
when she left port; and that that was the cause of the damage to libellant's cattle.
This brings us to the inquiry whether the claimants can
escape from the liability which the law imposed upon them
by reason of the exceptions in the bill of lading.
These exceptions were: "The act of God, the Queen's

THE CALEDONIA.
Opinion of the Court.

enemies, pirates, restraint of princes and rulers, perils of the
sea, rivers, navigation and land transit, of whatever nature or
kind, restrictions at port of discharge, loss or damage from
delays, collisions, straining, explosion, heat, fire, steam boilers
and machinery or defects therein, transshipment, escape, accidents, suffocation, mortality, disease or deterioration in value,
negligence, default or error in judgment of pilots, master,
mariners, engineers, stevedores, or any other person in the
employ of the steamship or of the owners or their agents."
It is claimed that the Caledonia was exempted from the
losses caused by her unseaworthiness from the defective shaft
at the commencement of the voyage by the exception of "loss
or damage from delays,
steam boilers and machinery or defects therein."
As is well said by counsel for appellee, the exceptions in a
contract of carriage limit the liability but not the duty of the
owner, and do not, in the absence of an express provision, protect the shipowner against the consequences of furnishing an
unseaworthy vessel. Steel v. State Line Steamship Oompany,
3 App. Cas. 72; Gilroy v. Price,App. Cas. (1893) 56; The Glenfruin,10 P. D. 103; Fopitof v. Tilson, 1 Q. B. D. 377; Tattersall v. NationalSteamship Company, 12 Q. B. D. 297 ; Thames
& .Mersey Ins. Company v. Hamilton, 12 App. Cas. 484,490. If
the exceptions are capable of, they ought to receive, to use
the language of Lord Selborne in Steel v. Steamship Company,
"a construction not nullifying and destroying the implied obligation of the shipowner to provide a ship proper for the performance of the duty which he has undertaken."
There was no exception in this bill of lading which in express words exempted the shipowner from furnishing a seaworthy vessel at the commencement of the voyage. As the
exceptions were introduced by the shipowners themselves in
their own favor, they are to be construed most strongly
against them, and we perceive no reason why the obligation
to furnish a seaworthy vessel should be held to have been contracted away by implication. Their meaning ought not to
be extended to give the shipowner a protection, which, if
intended, should have been expressed in clear terms.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Moreover, the words "delays," "steam boilers and machinery or defects therein," formed part of a long enumeration of
the causes of damage, all the rest of which related to matters.
subsequent to the beginning of the voyage, and, by another
familiar rule of construction, they should be treated as equally
limited in their scope.
In Tattersallv. Steamship Company, cattle had been shipped
under a bill of lading, by which it was provided that the defendants were to be "in no way responsible either for their
escape from the steamer or for accidents, disease, or mortality,
and that under no circumstances shall they be held liable for
more than £5 for each of the animals." The ship, after carrying a cargo of cattle on a previous voyage, was improperly
cleaned, and those on this voyage took the foot and mouth
disease. It was held that the liability of the defendants was
not limited to £5 for each of the cattle, for the stipulations of
the bill of lading related to the carriage of the goods on the
voyage, and did not affect the obligation to have the ship fit
for the reception of the cattle.
In T]ie cargo ex Zaerles, 12 P. D. 187, cargo was shipped
under three different forms of bills of lading, the exceptions
in which, so far as material, were respectively as follows:
"Warranted seaworthy only so far as ordinary care can provide;" "warranted seaworthy only so far as due care in the
appointment or selection of agents, superintendents, pilots,
masters, officers, engineers, and crew can insure it;" "owners
not to be liable for loss, detention, or damage . . . if arisfrom latent defects in boilers,
ing directly or indirectly
machinery, or any part of the vessel in which steam is used,
even existing at time of shipment, provided all reasonable
means have been taken to secure efficiency." These exceptions were held to limit the implied warranty of seaworthiness in accordance with the expressed intention of the parties
to that precise effect, and for that reason only to take the case
out of the general rule.
We are not dealing with the question of how far exceptions
may be given effect in particular cases, but whether by those
under consideration claimants were exempted from liability

THE CALEDONIA.
Opinion of the Court.

for unseaworthiness, and we are clearly of opinion that they
were not.
Something was said as to protection from liability by reason
of the words in the original memorandum of agreement that
"the shipper assumes all risk of mortality or accident, however caused, throughout the voyage." We agree with the
Circuit Court that the bill of lading can alone be considered
as the contract between the parties, the memorandum being
preliminary merely; but we are also of opinion that the same
rule of construction would apply to the memorandum as to
the bill of lading, and that the assumption of the risk of mortality or accident throughout the voyage did not constitute an
exemption of the shipowner from his obligation to furnish a
seaworthy vessel at its commencement.
By reason of the unseaworthiness of the Caledonia the
cattle were not delivered at the time and place, when and
where they should have been, and loss was incurred through
shrinkage in weight from the protracted voyage and through
fall in market value during the delay in arrival.
It is argued that a common carrier is not liable for mere
delay and its consequences unless he has been at fault, and that
claimants were in this case free from blame because the defect
was a secret one. This contention, however, begs the question,
for the conclusion upon this record is that claimants are responsible for breach of warranty notwithstanding the shaft
was defective through hidden weakness. No question can be
made that the shrinkage was a direct result of that breach,
but it is further insisted that changes in market value were
too speculative to furnish just basis for recovery. But as it is
found as a fact that these parties, at the time of contracting
together, knew and contemplated that the cattle were not to
be sold before arrival, but were to be sold at the first possible
market day after arrival, it follows that the damages by reason
of the fall in price were not remote, but flowed naturally from
the breach of warranty. Howard v. Stillwell _ffg. Co., 139
U. S. 199; Cincinnati Gas 0o. v. Western Siemens Co., 152
U. S. 200; Zing v. Woodbridge, 34: Vermont, 565; -Laurentv.
Vaughn, 30 Vermont, 90; Ayres v. Chicago & -Northwestern

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

Railway, 75 Wisconsin, 215; -Demingv. Grand Trunk Rail'oad Co., 48 N. 11. 455; Wilson, v. lancashire and Yorkshire
Railway, 9 C. B. (N. S.) 632; Collard v. Southeastern Rail-way,
7 H. & N. 79; The City of Para,44: Fed. Rep. 689; and cases
-ecree a
cited by the Circuit Court.
ee rm ed.
Dec
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, with whom concurred
M. JUSTICE B EwER, dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE

HARLAN and

1. Conceding, for the purposes of this case, that under the
stringent rule laid down by this court in Richelieu Navigation
Co. v. Boston Insurance Co., 136 U. S. 408, 428, and The E.
I. Morrison, 153 U. S. 199, the carrier is bound to respond
for any loss of, or direct damage to, goods in consequence of a
breach of his implied warranty of seaworthiness, whether such
unseaworthiness were known or unknown, discoverable or undiscoverable, it does not necessarily follow that he is subject
to the same measure of liability for damages occasioned by
mere delay in making the voyage within the usual time.
All the cases cited in the opinion of the court are those
wherein either the ship or the cargo has suffered loss or direct
damage, by reason of her unseaworthiness at the commencement of the voyage. Both in this court and in the court below
the case is treated as one involving the liability of the carrier
as an insurer of the goods in question. The authorities, however, make a clear distinction between the loss of or direct
damage to goods on account of unseaworthiness, and the consequences of mere delay. In the one case the contract is to
deliver the goods at all events, the acts of God and the perils
of the sea alone excepted. In the other, it is to use all reasonable exertions to carry the goods to the port of destination
within the usual time.
The distinction is nowhere better or more concisely stated
than in Parsons v. Hardy, 14 Wend. 215, 217, which was an
action to recover the price for the transportation of a quantity
of merchandise from Albany to Ithaca. Plaintiff received the
goods at Albany on board a canal boat, consigned to Ithaca.

THE CALEDONIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

ie was forced to stop at an intermediate point in consequence
of ice in the canal, the defendant receiving the goods and
transporting them to Ithaca. Defendant said that plaintiff
was not entitled to recover because he had failed to deliver
the goods as agreed. Plaintiff offered to prove that he was
delayed in the canal in consequence of a collision with a scow,
by which his boat was injured; and that he was obliged to
stop and repair it. The court charged the jury that the accident to the boat, though caused by misfortune and without
fault of the plaintiff, was no cause for his delay, which nothing
could excuse but the act of God or the enemies of the country.
This instruction was held to be erroneous, MJr. Justice Sutherland observing: "Plaintiff, as a common carrier, was responsible at all events for the final safety and delivery of the
defendants' goods to them at Ithaca. Nothing could exonerate him from that responsibility but the act of God, or a
public enemy. But in respect to the timhe of delivery, he was
responsible only for the exertion of due diligence. In this
respect, common carriers stand upon the same ground with
other bailees. They may excuse delay in the delivery of goods
by accident or misfortune, although not inevitable, or produced
by the act of God. It is sufficient, if they exert due care and
diligence to guard against delay, if the goods are finally delivered in safety. The principle upon which the extraordinary
responsibility of common carriers is founded does not require
that that responsibility should be extended to the time occupied
in the transportation."
The principle of this case was affirmed in Fibert v. HVew
York & Erie Railroad, 12 N. Y. 245, 251, which was an action to recover damages for the negligence of the defendant in
not transporting to and delivering at New York a quantity
of butter within a reasonable time. The defence was that
there was an unusual quantity of merchandise delivered to
defendant to be transported to New York; that its road was
in good order, properly equipped, and that as many trains
were run as could be with safety; but that the quantity
of merchandise exceeded the capacity of the road to transport
the same immediately, and that it accumulated in the depots.

OCTOBER TERI,

1894.

Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

The delay was held to be excused. Said the court: "The
law, upon well-known motives of policy, has determined that
a carrier shall be responsible for the loss of property entrusted
to him for transportation, though no actual negligence exist,
unless it happen in consequence of the act of God, or the
public enemy; but when the goods are actually delivered at
the place of destination, and the complaint is only of a late
delivery, the question is simply one of reasonable diligence,
and accident or misfortune will excuse him, unless he have expressly contracted to deliver the goods within a limited time."
In Thayei" v. Burchard,99 Mass. 508, it was also held that
the fact that there was a great accumulation of freight for
transportation over a railroad was sufficient to relieve the
corporation from liability for the consequences of delay in
transportation. "For losses, expenses, or other damage arising from mere delay, occasioned by a temporary excess, of
business, and without fault, the carrier is not responsible."
To the same effect are GalenaC& Chicago Railroad v. Rae,
18 Illinois, 488; Ilelliwell v. Grand Trfunk Railway, 10 Bissell, 170. In Geismer v. lake Shore Railway, 102 N. Y. 563,
and Lake Shore Railway v. Bennett, 89 Indiana, 457, it was
held that a railroad was not liable where a mob of strikers
impeded or interrupted the carriage of the goods in question.
In the following cases it was also held that the carrier was
responsible only for the consequences of unreasonable delay :
The Success, 't Blatchford, 551; Page v. .Maunro, 1 Holmes,
232; Ward v. 1V. Y Central Railroad, 47 N. Y. 29; Rland
v. Baynes, 4 Wharton, 204; Kannic v. Chicago, Rock Island
c&c. Railway, 69 Iowa, 665; Boner v. Aferchants Steamboat
Co., 1 Jones Law, (N. 0.) 211; Conger v. lzitdson, River Railroad, 6 Duer, 375; Pittsburg,Fort Wayne &c. Railroad v.
ffazen, 84: Illinois, 36.
The English cases are even more explicit than our own, in
treating the contract of the carrier as demanding only the
exercise of due diligence with respect to the time of delivery.
A leading case is that of Briddon v. Great NTorthern Railway,
28 L. J. Exch. 51; S. C. 4 H. & N. 8417 (Am. ed.), which was
an action against a railway company for a failure to deliver

THE CALEDONIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

certain beasts within a reasonable time, whereby the beasts
were deteriorated in condition, and a market lost (precisely
the damages which are claimed in this case). Transportation
was delayed by a heavy snow storm, by which the market
day at Nottingham was lost. It was claimed that, under the
circumstances, the road was bound to obtain additional engines, and use extraordinary efforts to send on the cattletrucks. But the court held that the contract entered into
was to carry the cattle without delay, and in a reasonable
time under ordinary circumstances. That, if a snow storm
occurred which made it impossible to carry the cattle, except
by extraordinary effort, involving additional expense, the
company was not bound to use such means and to incur such
expense. .In Hales v. London & NVorthwestern Railway, 4
B. & S. 66, 71, a jury found that the goods were not delivered within a reasonable time. Lord Chief Justice Cockburn
said: "Where no time is mentioned for delivering goods carried, the obligation of the carrier is to deliver them within a
reasonable time; and that is a question of fact. The person
who sends goods is not entitled to call upon the carrier to go
out of his accustomed course, or to use extraordinary means
of conveyance; but the carrier must do that which is within
his power, and which it is reasonable to expect that he should
do for delivering the goods."
The case of Taylor v. GreatiVorthern Railway, L. R. 1 C. P.
385, 387, 388, was an action for damages sustained in consequence of a delay in the delivery of three hampers of poultry,
sent by the railway for the early London market. The delay
was occasioned by an accident which occurred on defendant's
line to a train of another railway company, which had running powers over that portion of the line. The accident resulted solely from the negligence of the servants of the other
corporation. It was held that the railway was not responsible, Erle, C. J., observing: "I think a common carrier's duty
to deliver safely has nothing to do with the time of delivery;
that is a matter of contract, and when, as in the present case,
there is no express contract, there is an implied contract to
deliver within a reasonable time, and that I take to mean a

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

time within which the carrier can deliver, using all reasonable
exertions." Said Montague Smith, J.: "Common carriers do
indeed insure to this extent, that they will safely and securely
carry the goods, but not to the extent of guaranteeing their
arrival at any particular time." The maritime cases in England nearly all turn upon the question of reasonable time for
the delivery of the goods after the ship arrives at her port of
destination.
Counsel for the appellee has failed to cite an authority
which lends countenance to the theory of the opinion in this
case, that the liability of the carrier for the consequences of
delay is coextensive with his liability for the loss of the goods
carried. Not only do the general principles of law hold him
liable simply for the exercise of diligence, but the bill of
lading in this case expressly exonerates him for "loss or
damage from delays." From reasons of public policy, and
from the fact that the carrier and his servants are solely
entrusted with the custody of goods carried, and the owner
has no means of protecting himself against their embezzlement or negligence, the law has imposed upon the carrier the
stringent liability of an insurer. As was said by Lord Holt in
Coggs v. Be ,nacrd, 2 Ld. Raym. 909, 918: "This is a politic
establishment contrived by the policy of the law, for the
safety of all persons, the necessity of whose affairs obliges
them to trust these sorts of persons, that they may be safe in
their ways of dealing; for else these carriers might have an
opportunity for undoing all persons that had any dealings
with them, by combining with thieves, etc., and yet doing it
in such a clandestine manner as would not be possible to be
discovered. And this is the reason the law is founded upon
in that point."
These reasons, however, have no application to his carrying
within a reasonable time. As to such contract, the law imposes upon him no extraordinary liability.
As it is admitted in this case that the delay was occasioned
by a defect in the ship, which could not have been discovered
by the ordinary methods of inspection, it seems to me clear
that the carrier should not be held responsible. If it be said

THE CALEDONIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

that the damages in this case were the direct consequences of
the breach of warranty of seaworthiness, the reply is that for
such damages the ship is not responsible, provided her owner
has used due diligence to make her seaworthy, although if the
goods had been lost or destroyed, he would have been liable as
insurer. In the cases above cited, if the merchandise had been
lost in consequence of the collision in the canal, the extraordinary accumulation of freight, the violence of the mob, or the
accident upon the railway, there could have been no doubt
whatever that the carrier would have been liable; but as the
consequence of the accidents in each case was a mere delay
in the delivery of the goods, the carrier was exonerated. I
find it impossible to distinguish these cases in principle from
the one under consideration.
2. There is also a further exception in the bill of lading in
this case of "loss or damage from . . . machinery, or
defects therein." This exception was obviously inserted for
the purpose of exempting the ship from some liability to which,
without such exception, she would be subject. It evidently
was not intended to apply to mere breakages of machinery,
which should occur after the voyage began, since the breaking
of sound machinery through stress of weather is treated as an
inevitable accident or peril of the sea, for which the ship
would not be liable, whether there were an exception or not.
The Virgo, 3 Asp. Mar. Law Cas. 285; The William Lindsay,
L. R. 5 P. 0. 338.
The exception, then, must be referable to latent defects in
the machinery, existing at the time the voyage began. Of
course, it does not apply to negligent defects or to those which
might have been discovered by the exercise of ordinary care,
but as to any latent defects I regard this exception as exonerating the carrier. There are but few cases, either in this
country or in England, where the direct question has been
presented, but in all those to which our attention has been
called similar exceptions are treated as valid and binding.
Thus in Tlie Miranda, L. R. 3 Ad. & Ec. 561, a steam vessel
became disabled at sea, in consequence of her machinery
breaking down. Her cargo had been shipped under bills of
VOL. CLVII-1O

OCTOBER TERllf, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

lading, which contained "accidents from machinery" among
the excepted perils. Another steamship, belonging to the
same owners, fell in with the disabled vessel, towed her into
port, and took proceedings against the cargo to recover salvage. The defence was that the Miranda was unseaworthy.
The court held, first, that there was no sufficient evidence to
find that she was unseaworthy at the time the cargo was
shipped, and even if there were, that the exception of "accidents from machinery" exonerated the vessel from the consequence of such breakage, and rendered the cargo liable for its
proportion of salvage. The Cargo ex _aertes, 12 P. D. 187,
was a similar case, wherein the cargo was proceeded against
for salvage. The bills of lading under which the cargo was
shipped contained, among other excepted perils, the clauses:
"Warranted seaworthy only so far as ordinary care can
provide," and "owners not to be liable for loss, detention,
or damage . . . if arising directly or indirectly
from latent defects in boilers, machinery," etc. The Laertes
broke down from a latent defect, which could not have been
discovered by the exercise of reasonable care, and it was held
that the exception of latent defects, if it did not abrogate, at
all events limited, the warranty which the law would otherwise imply that the ship was seaworthy at the beginning of
the voyage. This case is directly in point. In T/ie Curlew,
51 Fed. :Rep. 24-6, airmed by the Court of Appeals, 8 U. S.
App. 405, the breaking of a junk ring on the engine cylinder
was held to be an accident of the sea and of the machinery,
within the meaning of a charter party exempting the party
from liability for loss of cargo caused by such accident. And
in Te carib Prince,63 Fed. Rep. 266, a similar exemption of
latent defects was held to cover damages from a defective
rivet in the bulkhead side of a water tank where, the ship being
a new one, the tank had been tested by hammer and water
pressure and no defect had been disclosed.
The cases cited in the opinion of the court do not seem to
me to support its conclusion. In Steel v. State Line Steamship
Co., 3 App. Cas. 72, the cargo was damaged by sea water
getting into a port hole which had been negligently fastened.

THE CALEDONIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

There was no doubt that the loss was due to the negligence of
the ship. In Gilroy v. Price,App. Gas. (1893), 56, there was
an exception of liability for neglect in the navigation of the
ship in the ordinary course of the voyage, and it was held,
very properly, that this did not apply to the warranty of seaworthiness, that the loss occurred from unseaworthiness at the
time the vessel started on her voyage, and that the owners of
the ship were liable. In The Glen/f'uin, 10 P. D. 103, there
was an exception of "all and every the dangers and accidents
of the seas and of navigation of whatsoever nature or kind,"
and this was held not to exone'ate the vessel from the consequence of the breaking of her crank shaft from a defect in the
welding which made her unseaworthy. In Tattersall v. -zVational Steamship Co., 12 Q. B. D. 297, there was clear proof of
negligence in not cleansing and disinfecting the ship, in consequence of which plaintiff's cattle contracted a disease, for
which the ship was, of course, held liable. In Eoitoff v.
lilson, 1 Q. B. D. 377, there was a failure to stow certain
iron plates in a proper manner, so that one of them broke loose
and went through the side of the ship. But there was in that
case no exception in the bill of lading. The case of the Jhsurante Co. v. Hamilton, 12 App. Gas. 484, is equally inapplicable.
If, under the circumstances of the present case, the vessel
be not exonerated by the exception in the bill of lading of
"loss or damage from machinery or defects therein," I am
wholly unable to conceive what defects the exception was
intended to cover. I am not aware that there is any magic in
the words "implied warranty of seaworthiness," which enables
them to override all the other general principles of law applicable to the responsibility of the carrier, as well as the express
terms of his contract with the shipper.
I am, therefore, constrained to dissent from the opinion of

the court, and am authorized to state that MxR. JUSTICE HARLAN
and MR. JUSTICE BREWER concur in this opinion.

