STATLER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

STATLER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 710.

Argued March 7, 1S95.-Decided

March 25, 1895.

The first count in an indictment containing three counts charged the accused
with "having counterfeit coin in his possession, with intent to defraud
certain persons to this grand inquest unknown." The jury found him
"guilty in the first count for having in possession counterfeit minor
coin. Not guilty as to second and third counts." Held, that the verdict
was a general verdict of guilty under the first count, and that the words
attached did not qualify the conclusion of guilt.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.M'. Tlknas B. Alcorn for plaintiff in error.
Ar. Assistant Attorney General Wtitney for defendants in
error. M'. William H. Pope was on his brief.

:MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error was prosecuted for committing offences
punishable under Rev. Stat. 5458. Th*e indictment contained
three counts. The first charged him with "having counterfeit
coin in his possession with intent to defraud certain persons to
this grand inquest unknown;" the second, with having with like
intent attempted to pass such coin; and the third, with actually
passing such coin with criminal intent. On being arraigned,
the defendant pleaded not guilty, presenting a written plea to
that effect, which was placed on the indictment as follows:
"Defendant admits having the coins in his possession set forth
in the indictment, and knowing that they were counterfeit, but
pleads not guilty of the intent of passing or intending to pass
same, or to defraud any person with the same."
On the trial the government abandoned the second and
third counts: Under the first count, as the fact of possession

OCTOBER TERIM,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

of the counterfeit coin was admitted, the only issue presented
to the jury was whether the intention to defraud existed. The
jury found a verdict on May 147, 1894, after the adjournment
of the court, which was signed by all its members, and, being
sealed, was opened by the court on the following day, May
15. It was as follows: "The jury finds the defendant guilty
in the first count for having in possession counterfeit minor
coin. Not guilty as to second and third counts."
The defendant moved in arrest of judgment for the following reasons: First, "the jury has not found the defendant
guilty of any offence under the law; second, the verdict, to
wit, the jury finds the defendant guilty for having in possession counterfeit minor coin; not guilty as to the second and
third counts, clearly indicates that the jury did not intend to
find the defendant guilty under the act of Congress of intending to defraud any person." The motion was overruled and
sentence imposed. The defendant brought the case here by
error.
In order to determine the effect of the words attached by
the jury to the finding of "guilty in the first count," it is
necessary to ascertain whether the verdict was special or
general.
A special verdict is defined by 3lackstone to be one "Where
the jury state the naked facts as they find them to be proved,
and pray the advice of the court thereon, concluding conditionally, that is, if upon the whole matter the court should be of
the opinion that the plaintiff had cause of action, then they
find for the plaintiff; if otherwise, for the defendant. .
Another method of finding a species of special verdict is when
the jury find generally for the plaintiff, but subject nevertheless to the opinion of the judge of the court on a special case
stated by the counsel on both sides with regard to matter of
law." 4 331. Com. 377, 378.
Under this definition, it is evident that the verdict here considered was not a special verdict. Indeed, it is settled beyond
question that a verdict of guilty, without specifying any offence, is general, and is sufficient, and is to be understood as
referring to the offence charged in the indictment. St. Clair

STATLER 'v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

v. United States, 154 U. S. 154; Bond v. The People, 39 Illinois, 26; State v. Jurche, 17 La. Ann. 71; State v. Curtis, 6
Ired. (Law) 247; State v. Tuller, 34 Connecticut, 280; State v.
-Morris,104 N. C. 837.
The verdict being general and not special, any words attached to the finding "guilty on the first count" are clearly
superfluous and are to be so treated. In Trials per Pais (8th
ed. 1766, p. 287) the rule is thus stated: "If the jury give a
verdict of the whole issue and of more, . .
that which is
more is surplusage and shall not stay judgment, for 'utile per
inutile non vitiatur.'" Bishop on Criminal Procedure, p. 623,
section 1005 a, is, substantially, to the same effect: "The
words being 'the finding of lay people,' need not be framed
under the strict rules of pleading, or after any technical form.
Any words which convey the idea to the common understanding will be adequate. And all fair intendments will be made
to support it. To say, therefore, that the defendant is 'guilty,'
or guilty of an offence named which is less than the whole
alleged, is sufficient, without adding ' as charged in the indictment;' for the latter will be supplied by construction. So,
likewise, a general finding of 'guilty' will be interpreted as
guilty of all that the indictment well alleges. . . . Surplusage in a verdict may be rejected, being harmless, the
same as in pleading. And the verdict must be construed as
a whole, not in separate parts."
In Patterson v. United
States, 2 Wheat. 221, 225, this court, speaking through Mr.
Justice Washington, said: "If the jury find the issue and
something more, the latter part of the finding will be rejected
as surplusage." Commonwealth v. Judd, 2 Mass. 329; -Armstrong v. The People, 37 Illinois, 459; State v. Yocum, 117
Missouri, 622; Arnold v. State, 51 Georgia, 144; Henry v.
Raiman, 25 Penn. St. 354.
Reading the verdict, here considered, by the light of these
elementary principles, the words "for having in possession
counterfeit minor coin," attached to the words "guilty in the
first count," are obviously superfluous, and striking them from
the verdict leaves it, in all respects, complete and responsive
to the charge. The wisdom and justness of the rule is shown,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

by applying it to the verdict rendered in this case. The plea
made by the defendant having admitted the possession by

him of the counterfeit coin, the only issue submitted to the
jury was the intent to defraud. To presume that the verdict
which found the defendant "guilty under the first count"
was predicated on the mere possession without the intent,
involves the conclusion that the jury found the defendant
guilty, because of the existence of a fact from which it was
admitted no guilt could result. To allow the superfluous
words which were attached to the finding of guilty to have
the effect here claimed for them, would compel us to read
the verdict as saying, "We find the defendant guilty because
he concedes that he possessed the counterfeit coin, although
it is admitted he cannot be guilty from the fact of such possession alone," that is, "We find him guilty although he is
not guilty." The record leaves no room for doubt that the
words "for having in possession counterfeit minor coin,"
which were attached to the verdict, were merely words identifying the first count, and were not and could not have been
intended to qualify the verdict of guilty. The indictment
was endorsed as follows: "Indictment for having in possession counterfeit minor coin; second, attempting to pass same;
third, passing the same." The words attached to the verdict
are simply those found on the back of the indictment describing the first count, and this fact indicates that the jury affixed
them simply as words of description of the first count, and
therefore did not intend by their use to qualify in any way
the conclusion of guilt expressed in their verdict.
A jb'red.

