OCTOBER TERIf, 1894.
Syllabus.

on behalf of the libellant. The result is that, in the suit
in which the steamship was not represented, she was found
wholly in fault, and in the suit in which the tug was not
represented, she is found in fault. The litigation is an apt
illustration of the maxim, les absents ont toujours tort.
We regret that the tug could not have been brought into
the case; but the District and Circuit Courts were bound by
such testimony as was introduced, and we are bound by the
record and the findings of the Circuit Court. Adjudging, as
we do upon these findings, that no fault can be imputed to
the steamship, we have no choice but to affirm the decree.
The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore,
-Afirmed.

BALTIMORE

AND

POTOMAC

RAILROAD

COMV-

PANY v. MACKEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 84. Argued November19, 20, 1S94.-

Decided March 4, 1895.

Where the evidence is conflicting, and no reasonable or proper inference can
be drawn from it as matter of law, the case should be left to the jury.
Knowledge of a defect in a car brake cannot be imputed to the employ6
charged with keeping it in order, when he has had no opportunity to
see it.
When an instruction to the jury embodies several propositions of law, to
some of which there are no objections, the party objecting must point
out specifically to the trial court the part to which he objects, in order to
avail himself of the objection.
Ambiguous or too forcible expressions in a charge may be explained or
qualified by other parts of it, and if the charge does not, as a whole,
work injustice to the party objecting, the use of such expressions will
not be cause for granting a new trial.
A railroad company, receiving the cars of other companies to be hauled in
its trains, is bound to inspect such cars before putting them in its trains,
and is responsible to its employ~s for injuries inflicted upon them in consequence of defects in such cars which might have been discovered by a
reasonable inspection before admitting them to a train.
In an action by an executor of a deceased person against a railroad company

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC RAILROAD v

EACKEY. 73

Statement of the Case.
to recover damages for the killing of the intestate, an employ( of the
company, brought under the act of February 17, 1885, c. 126, 23 Stat.

307, which provides that " the damages recovered in such action shall
not be appropriated to the payment of the debts or liabilities of such
deceased person, but shall inure to the benefit of his or her family, and
be distributed according to the provisions of the statute of distributions," it is not error to charge the jury that in estimating damages they
may take into consideration the age of the deceased, his health and
strength, his capacity to earn money as disclosed by the evidence, his
family, who they are and what they consist of, and from all the facts
and all the circumstances make up their minds how much the family
would probably lose by his death.
Pennsylvania Co. v. Boy, 102 U. S. 451, distinguished from this case.
The plaintiff's declaration claimed $10,000. He obtained a judgment in the
trial court for $8000. The appellate court affirmed this judgment, and
ordered that he recover "as in his declaration claimed." Held, that these
words did not have the effect of increasing the sum actually recovered
in the special term, and that the inaccuracy was not sufficient ground
for reversal.

THis action was instituted under the provisions of the act
of February 17, 1885, c. 126, 23 Stat. 307, to recover damages
from the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company, because
of the death of Robert A. Brown, an inspector and repairer
of cars in its employ, which resulted from injuries to him,
caused by his having been crushed between two freight cars
of the defendant in the city of Washington, on the night of
March 17, 1887.
There was evidence before the jury tending to show the following facts :.
For about five years prior to his death, Robert A. Brown,
the intestate of the defendant in error, was in the employment of the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company as a
In the evening of March 17, 1887--the
car inspector.
night being dark and, in the language of a witness, a "fearful" one, "snowing and the wind blowing very hard"-he
was on duty in what is called the Jersey Avenue freight yard,
in company with his uncle, who was also a car inspector. A
fast freight train came in from Baltimore, and upon examination he discovered a defective drawhead (called by railroad
men a "bull-nose") on one of the cars. The cars were all
coupled together and it was, therefore, impossible to repair

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

the defective drawhead without the assistance of yardmen.
Brown thereupon requested the yardmen to "cut" the train
so that the defective drawhead could be reached and repaired.
He and his uncle asked the conductor, Phillips, who had control of the shifting engine, to have that done -saying to him
that if he would give them from five to seven minutes they
would repair the car, and that if not repaired it would be
pulled to pieces. Thereupon the conductor ordered a brakeman, with the yard engine, "'to cut the train, and give them
a chance to fix it." As soon as the train was cut, Brown and
his uncle went to work on the defective car, which was the
fifth one from the tender. The cut was between the fourth
and fifth car. The deceased took the drawhead out nd
repaired it. Just as his uncle was about to drop the key in,
which holds it together, he felt the cars "going away from
him." He immediately came out from under the car and
Robert A. Brown was "crushed in between the cars."
When the train of cars was cut, those attached to the engine
were pulled forward, leaving a gap in the train. Notice was
not given of any purpose after cutting the train to detach the
engine from the four cars it pulled away in order that Brown
and his uncle might reach and repair the drawhead. The two
cars next to the one to be repaired were heavily loaded with
coal. The grade from South Capitol Street to New Jersey
Avenue was quite steep. While deceased was engaged in the
work of repairing-his back being towards the engine that
had been used to draw some of the cars away so that the
inspectors could do their work- the engine was detached
from the cars attached to it, and sent off on other duty. The
result was, that the cars that had been attached to the engine
came back down the grade towards the defective car, and
against Brown and the car he was repairing. An effort was
made to stop them by the use of a brake on one of the carsa "foreion" car - but the brake was insufficient for that purpose, and was itself out of order and defective.
There was evidence tending to show that car inspectors
were not expected or required to repair foreign cars. A car
inspector testified: "There are cars that come into our yards

BALTIMIVORE & POTO.MAC RAILROAD v. MACKEY.

75

Statement of the Case.

which are out of repair, and there are cars that come in there
from other companies. Our company don't hold us responsible for fixing those cars, because we don't get paid for it.
We are instructed not to use our materials unless it was for a
broken drawhead, and then we would have to put in another
drawhead. Sometimes we do work and card it to go to other
companies. There are a great many cars come in that way,
marked ' defective brake.'"
This witness also testified upon the question of the defective
brake as follows: "He was a car inspector in the employ of
the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company; that Robert
A. Brown, the deceased, was the chief car inspector in the
Jersey yard; that he was acquainted with a man named
Downs, who was supposed to be the chief car inspector; that
on the next day after the accident, or on the evening of the
next day after the accident, the witness went, in company with
.Mr. Downs, to examine this car with the defective brake ; that
he was not positive whether it was on the day after the accident, or the second day after the accident that they went to
examine the said car with the defective brake; that he went
with Downs to assist him to find the car; that they found it
and made an examination of the brake, and that the result of
the examination was that they found the brake was a defective
one; that the car was marked ' defective brake' on the end of
the car; that the witness got up on top of the car and tried
both the top and end brake ; that he first put the brake
down, and then came down and examined it, and found that
the bottom connection was too short, and that 'if it bad been
a long connection, or connected all along, it would have been
a pretty sufficient brake;' that this car was brought up from
the Jersey yard during the night, or in the morning, along
with a draft of eighteen or twenty or twenty-five other cars;
that he did not know whether this car with the defective
brake was hauled by another engine or was shifted backwards
and forwards after the time of the accident or not; that the
car was still loaded with oil; that chalk marks 'defective brake'
were on the car when it got into the M-K'aryland Avenue yard;
that he did not know how the car got there; that he went with

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

31r. Downs to examine this car at about half-past six or seven
o'clock in the evening; that he examined the car with the
defective drawhead shortly after the accident; that he saw
the tools lying around there which were used for the purpose
of fixing cars, and that he examined the drawhead and saw
what it needed; that he told the men to look out for him, and
he got under the car and did the work ; that it took him about
three minutes." On cross-examination, he further said "that
he did not know that the brake which he examined was the
brake on the car connected with the accident, except that he
was told that that car was the cause of the accident; that he
did not know it as a fact; that Robert A. Brown was his
superior officer - ' our leader ' - or foreman in the yard ; that
he, witness, first discovered the chalk mark ' defective brake'
when he went to examine the car ; that it was marked on the
end of the car, and on both sides."
After the train was cut, and space left between the cars that
were pulled away and the defective car, Brown had no reason
to believe that the former would be allowed to run back upon
him. On the contrary, when the train was cut he had the
assurance of the conductor that the cars pulled ahead would be
left standing where they were after the cutting of the train
had been accomplished.
The conductor, a witness for the defendant company, gave
this account of the affair: "]He was in the employ of the defendant, the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company, as a
conductor in the freight yard in this city; had been so employed by the defendant in this freight yard for about twelve
years; was there at the time of the accident, running with the
shifting engine No. 3927; that on the night of the 1'7th of
March, 1887, the night of the accident, he was engaged in the
'Jersey yard' in shifting cais; that they got down to the
Jersey yard about 9.55 o'clock in the evening, and took down
with them about twenty-five cars, which they first shifted
around where they belonged ; that it took them about half an
hour to dispose of those cars; that they went over on to the other
side of the yard to shift the fast freight which was coming in
from the North; that said train was brought in by engine No.

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC RAILROAD v. MACKEY. 77
Statement of the Case.

307 and placed on No. 1 track; that said fast freight train
arrived after they got down to the Jersey yard about ten or
fifteen minutes; that they went to work upon said train to get
out such cars as were to go South on the fast freight; that
there were not over six cars in the said freight train to go
South; that the cars which were for Washington were put over
on another track; that then Robert A. Brown, the deceased,
told them that they had a broken bull-nose down there which
he wanted to fix; that he asked the witness to pull the cars
apart, and witness told him that he would go down there and
pull them apart; that he went down there and pulled the cars
apart; that witness told deceased he was not going to shift
any more of those cars; that said cars were pulled apart to a
distance of about forty feet; that brakeman Hillary pulled
the pin and uncoupled the cars in the first instance, and that
the witness ordered the cars to be cut loose ; that at that time
he was talking to Robert A. Brown, who was standing right
where the cut was made; that after the pin was pulled the
witness (Phillips) gave the signal to pull ahead, and then went
up towards the engine; that he stopped the engine when
Robert A. Brown, the deceased, said, 'That will do,' by giving the engineer the shut-off signal with his lamp by swinging
it; that thereupon the engineer (Smith) called to him, and he
went up towards the engine; that the engineer then said he
had no more water to do any shifting with, and I told him I
hadn't anything to do, and they were not going to do any
more shifting on that train, and I asked him to take a load of
stock from the lower end up to the warehouse and stop at
Sixth Street and get water. He said: 'Well, I will try it.'
So I said to brakeman Teiling, when I stopped talking to the
engineer, 'How is it .' He said, ' All 0. K.' I said, ' Go up
and set this brake.' He got up and put it on. I told Mr.
Brown, after I pulled the cars apart, that I was going to leave
them standing there."
There was evidence tending to show that a full crew, with
a shifting engine, in a yard is six men, an engineer, a fireman,
a conductor, and three brakemen; and that on the night
Brown was killed there were only two brakemen on the train.

OCTOBER TERf, 1894.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

There was also evidence bearing upon the question whether
the deceased was guilty of contributory negligence in not displaying a blue light while repairing the defective drawhead,
in conformity, as the defendant claimed, with one of the
printed rules of the company.
.M'. Enoch Totten for plaintiff in error.
I. The defendant was not guilty of negligence. If the
brake was defective, which is not conceded, it was not the
fault of the defendant. The defendant had employed a skilled
and reliable man to inspect all cars and discover all defects,
and this servant was on the ground at the proper time and
actually inspected the train. So far as this case is concerned,
this is all the law required the defendant to do.
A corporation must necessarily act through its agents. It
was the duty of the plaintiff in error to employ a skilled man,
or a man reputed to be skilful in the business, to inspect and
repair its cars. When it had done this it had performed its
whole duty as master.
IL The deceased was guilty of negligence.
The motion made by the counsel for the defendant at the
close of the whole testimony should have been granted and a
verdict directed in favor of the defendant, for the reason that
the evidence plainly showed negligence on the part of the
deceased.
The deceased himself had been directing the movements of
the cars which afterwards struck him, and told the conductor
of the switching engine to pull them away, and when this
was done he immediately went between the two trains and
proceeded to work on the stationary portion of the train with
his back towards the cars which had been moved. The night
was very dark, a snow-storm was raging with a violent wind
blowing, and the three cars were on a steep grade. He knew
that the cars werd to be left where they had been stopped by
his order, and that they were heavily laden. lie must have
known that there was great danger in the position in which
he had placed himself. lie neglected to display his blue

BALTUIvORE & POTOMAC RAILROAD v. MACKEY.

79

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

lights; this was gross carelessness and a plain violation of
the rules and regulations of the .company and of his special
orders. If he had displayed a blue light, as he was bound to
do, before beginning his work on the train, no injury could
have occurred to him. The conductor undoubtedly supposed
that the deceased would wait until the engineer had got
away with his engine, and that he would then hang out his
lights for his own protection. If he had displayed them at
once, the conductor would have known he was at work and
would have been guided in his movements by the rules and
regulations. The deceased was thus doubly guilty of negligence. lie carelessly placed himself in a place of danger, and
the consequences cannot be charged to the defendant. Southern Pacific Co. v. Seley, 152 U. S. 145; Elliott v. Chicago,
filwaukee &c. Railway, 150 U. S. 245; Tuttle v. Detroit
&c. .Railway, 122 U. S. 189; Railroad Co. v. Houston, 95
U. S. 697; St. Louis & San FranciscoRailway v. Schumacher,
152 U. S. 77.
There is another aspect of this case which was disregarded
by the court on the trial. The plaintiff's intestate was employed, and it was his business, to deal with broken and
disordered cars. He must, therefore, be held to have knowledge of the broken brake, whether he actually knew its con-

dition or not. It appears that he did actually make at least
a partial inspection, as he discovered the broken bull-nose,
which he undertook to repair. He should have discovered the
broken brake, if it was broken. The car with the alleged
broken brake was within two car-lengths of the broken bullnose. Although it is ordinarily the duty of railroad companies to furnish reasonably safe appliances, cars, and machinery
for their employ(s, and in default thereof they are liable for
injuries resulting from such default, yet this rule of law does
not apply to cases where employvs and servants of railroad
companies are engaged in repairing damaged cars. By his
employment to handle damaged cars the deceased assumed
the risk incident to the enhanced danger of this service, and
the law presumes that he was paid for it. T-eaton v. Boston
& Albany Railroad, 135 Mass. 418; Tuttle v. Detroit &c.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Chicago & Northwestern Railway v. Ward,
61 Illinois, 130; Flannaganv. Chicago & -Northwestern Railway, 45 Wisconsin, 98.
In the next place, if this accident was caused by the carelessness of the trainmen in charge of the work of switching
cars in the yard, then the plaintiff cannot recover, because
such trainmen were fellow-servants of the deceased. This has
been settled recently by this court in the case of -Northern
Pacific Railroad v. lambly, 154 U. S. 349. See also Randall v. B. & 0. Railroad, 109 U. S. 478; B. & 0. Railroad
v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368; Tuttle v. Detroit &c. Railway, 122
U. S. 189; Quebec Steamshil ) Go. v. Merchant, 133 U. S. 375;
Bunt v. Sierra Bate Co., 138 U. S. 483 ; istrict of Columbia
v. .fcElligott, 117 U. S. 621; _lurphy v. Y . Gent. R. R.
Co., 11 Daly, 122; Baltimore Elevator Co. v. IYeal, 65 Mary. C. & H1. R. Railroad, 70 N. Y.
land, 438; Besel v. N.
171; Smrnith v. Potter, 46 Michigan, 958; Columbia & _Xenia
Railroad v. Webb, 12 Ohio St. 475; .31.ackin v. Boston &
Albany Railroad Co., 135 Mass. 201.
III. At the close of the evidence the plaintiff's counsel requested two instructions, which were objected to by the defendant's counsel; they were granted by the court. They
constitute the errors claimed in the 5th and 6th bills of
exception (33, 34).
The criticism on these declarations of the law of the case is
(1) that it is not for the plaintiff to object (he being in the
place of the deceased in this suit), that the defendant failed to
exercise reasonable care in keeping the brake in repair. It
employed Brown himself, who was a proper man for that duty,
to examine this brake and to repair it if it was in bad order.
Having employed a competent man for that purpose, it did its
whole duty. If there was negligence as to this brake, thb
negligence was the negligence of Brown. (2) Each of these
instructions wholly ignores the important question of contributory negligence.
IV. The plaintiff having failed to prove negligence on the
part of the defendant's other servants, he could not, under the
pleadings, recover on the ground that the accident was caused
Rilway, supra;

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC RAILROAD v. MNIACKEY.

81

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

by a defective brake. Mention of a defective brake will not
be found in the declaration.
It was error to depart from the theory of the case set out in
the declaration. The case was made to turn, on the trial, on
the question as to whether or not the brake used to hold the
three detached cars was defective or in bad order. This was
not the case made by the plaintiff in his declaration; the
pleadings exclude that view of the case.
Putting out of sight for the time the fact that the deceased
was the person employed to discover and repair broken brakes,
it will be observed that the court ignored the law as applicable
to foreign cars. The evidence that this car with the alleged
defective brake was a foreign car was very slight; but what
there was, if any, went to the jury.
A different responsibility is connected with such a car. A
railroad company receiving a loaded car from another company
is entitled to presume that such car had been properly constructed of suitable material, and had passed the inspection of
some one of ordinary skill in such matters, and was reasonably
fit for the use to which it was devoted when received. Ballou
v. Ghicago, Mlilwaukee &c. Railway, 54 Wisconsin, 267; Mich.
(Cent. Railroadv. Smithson, 45 Michigan, 212; Smithv. Patten,
46 Michigan, 258; Baldwin v. R. R. Co., 50 Iowa, 680; Davis
v. Detroit & .Milwaukee Railroad,20 Michigan, 105; Macekin
v. Boston & Albany Railroad Co., 135 Mass. 201.
V. The trial judge, in the oral instructions in reference to
the duty of the corporation as to keeping brakes in good order,
utterly ignored the distinction between warranting the good
order and fitness of the brake for the service at all times, and
exercising reasonable care and diligence in keeping it in good
order.
It will be observed that the court impressed it upon the
minds of the jury that the defendant was bound to see to it
that this brake was in good working condition and sufficient
to hold those three cars at the time. This was holding the defendant to a higher degree of care than the law requires. The
rule is thus stated by this court in Washigton & Georgetown
Railroadv. clDade, 135 U. S. 554, 570: "Neither individuals
VOL. CLV11-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

nor corporations are bound, as employers, to insure the absolute safety of the machinery or mechanical appliances which
they provide for the use of their employ~s. Nor are they
bound to supply the best and safest or newest of those appliances for the purpose of securing the safety of those who are
thus employed. They are, however, bound to use all reasonable care and prudence for the safety of those in their service
by providing them with machinery reasonably safe and suitable
for the use of the latter."
VI. The trial justice also erred by instructing the jury that
they might consider the "strength" of the deceased, in reference to his capacity to earn money; there was nothing in the
evidence to show whether he was a strong man or otherwise.
The court also erred in the oral instructions to the jury on
the subject of damages. The learned judge told the jury that
they should take into consideration in estimating damages
"his family- who they were and what they consist of."
This instruction directed the jury to consider, first, who were
the family, or, which is the same thing, what was the condition in life of his family, and, second, of what age and sex
were the children.
The court has recently passed upon this question, and condemned a like ruling. Pewisylvnia Company v. Roy, 102
U. S. 451.
.M. .Fra7lin H. Mackey for defendant in error.
.11.

JUSTICE HIARLAx,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This suit was instituted under the act of Congress approved
February 17, 1885, c. 126, 23 Stat. 307, providing:
"SEC. 1. That whenever, by an injury done or happening
within the limits of the District of Columbia, the death of a
person shall be caused by the wrongful act, neglect, or default
of any person or corporation, and the act, neglect, or default is
such as would, if death had not ensued, have entitled the party
injured, or, if the person injured be a married woman, have

BALTIMORE & POTOM3AC RAILROAD v. MACKEY.

83

Opinion of the Court.

entitled her husband, either separately or by joining with the
wife, to maintain an action and recover damages, the person
who or corporation which would have been liable if death had
not ensued shall be liable to an action for damages for such
death, notwithstanding the death of the person injured, even
though the death shall have been caused under circumstances
which constitute a felony; and such damages shall be assessed
with reference to the injury resulting from such act, neglect,
or default, causing such death, to the widow and next of kin of
such deceased person: Provided, That in no case shall the
recovery under this act exceed the sum of ten thousand dollars: And provided, further, That no action shall be maintained under this act in any case when the party injured by
such wrongful act, neglect, or default has recovered damages
therefor during the life of such party.
"SEc. 2. That every such action shall be brought by and in
the name of the personal representative of such deceased person, and within one year after the death of the party injured.
"S~c. 3. That the damages recovered in such action shall
not be appropriated to the payment of the debts or liabilities
of such deceased person, but shall inure to the benefit of his
or her family, and be distributed according to the provisions
of the statute of distributions in force in the said District of
Columbia."
The assignments of error in the brief filed by the plaintiff
in error are seven in number, and cover all the material points
in the case. We assume that any exceptions taken at the trial
and not embraced by those assignments have been abandoned.
1. The first assignment of error is that the court below
erred in refusing at the close of all the evidence to direct a
verdict in favor of the defendant. It need only be said that
the case was one peculiarly for the jury under proper instructions as to the law of the case. There was no reasonable or
proper inference from the evidence, as matter of law, that
would have justified the withdrawal of the case from the jury.
Phwnix -Ins.Co. v. Dosier,106 U. S. 30, 32; Del. & Lackeawanna
Railroad v. Converse, 139 U. S. 469, 472; Texas and Pacific
Railway v. Cox, 145 U. S. 594, 606.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

2. The second assignment relates to the granting, on plaintiff's request, of the following instructions:
"The jury are instructed that the employ6s of a railroad
corporation have a right to expect that the corporation will,
as far as possible, provide for their protection in moving its
trains sufficient machinery in good order and condition, and
that it will exercise reasonable care and caution not to use cars
in its trains having defective brakes; if, therefore, the jury
believe from the testimony that the brake set by the brakeman Teiling was defective at the time of the accident, and that
by the exercise of reasonable care and caution the defendant
could have known said brake to be defective, then it is liable,
and their verdict must be for the plaintiff, provided they believe
from the testimony that the accident was caused by reason of
said defective brake.
"The jury are instructed that if they believe from the evidence the brakes set by brakeman Teiling as detailed in the
evidence would, if then in good order, have prevented the cars
from moving, or at least would have tended to retard such
movement so as to have given sufficient time to notify Brown
of his danger and to have enabled him to escape, then if the
jury believe from the evidence that the brake was not in good
order at the time of the accident, and, further, that the defendant by the exercise of reasonable care could have known of its
defective condition, their verdict must be for the plaintiff."
Two objections have been made by counsel in this court to
those instructions.
The first one is that the railroad company employed the
deceased himself to examine the brake in question, and to
repair it if it was not in proper condition; that if the defect
was chargeable to the negligence of any one it was to his negligence; and that the above instructions ignored the questions
of his contributory negligence.
There was no evidence whatever tending to show that
Brown was guilty of negligence in not having discovered,
immediately upon the arrival of the train, or before he was
killed, that the brake was defective or insufficient. The proof
did not show at what time it became defective, or that the

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC RAILROAD v. MHACKEY.

85

Opinion of the Court.

car on which it was placed had ever before been in Washington. As soon as he observed a defective drawhead in one of
the cars - which was soon after the train arrived at the coinpany's yard -he set about to repair it, and while engaged in
that particular work was killed. He had, therefore, no opportunity, after the train reached the yard, to investigate the condition of the brakes, and, consequently, the issue as to the
defectiveness of the brake in question was made by the court
to depend upon the inquiry whether due care was taken by
the railroad company, represented by agents or employ~s
other than Brown, in providing proper appliances on its
cars. And that was the theory upon which the company
itself proceeded in its defence, as is apparent from one of
the instructions asked by it in these words: "Unless the
jury shall be satisfied from the evidence that a defect in the
brake which was set by Teiling on the stock car*just before
the accident was the sole cause of the injury to Robert A.
Brown, the plaintiff's intestate, and that said brake was in
such defective condition at the time the said stock car was by
the defendant put into its train, the plaintiff cannot recover,
and the burden of proof is upon the plaintiff to show, by evidence satisfactory to the jury, that said brake was in such
defective condition before said car was by the defendant put
into the said train."
Itis not an objection to the instructions given on motion of
the plaintiff that they were silent on the question of contributory negligence. The defendant did not ask any specific
instruction on that point. Nevertheless the court when it
charged the jury, said, upon that subject, all that was necessary: "Make up your mind, first, within the instructions of
the court, was this defendant negligent? was that a bad brake?
if it had been a good one, would it have held this train? If
you say the brake was all right, that ends the case. If you
say that it was not all right, and that a good brake would
have held the car, then the next question is, was the plaintiff's
intestate himself negligent, imprudent, or careless, contributing to the injury directly? And if so, the plaintiff could
not recover. If'not, he could recover."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

The next objection urged by the defendant, in support of
its second assignment of error, is that the words "as far as
possible," in the first of the above instructions, imposed upon
the railroad company a higher degree of care in selecting
and keeping in order its appliances and machinery than the
law requires. It may be observed that the objection to the
instruction containing the particular words complained of
was general in its nature. The instruction embodied some
propositions of law to which no objection could be properly
made, and it was the duty of the defendant to point out,
specifically, the part of the instruction which it regarded as
announcing an erroneous principle of law. But we need not
put our decision entirely upon this ground; for it is clear
that the jury could not have been misled by the use of the
words "as far as possible." The instruction in which those
words are found distinctly informed the jury that the law
imposed upon the company the duty of exercising "reasonable
care and caution." And in its charge to the jury the court
said: "Was that brake in proper reasonable condition? If
it was not in a proper, reasonable condition, did the cars roll
back in consequence of that infirmity? Was the accident
traceable to that? I will say here, gentlemen, that if you
should be satisfied, from the evidence in this case, that this
brake was in a reasonably good condition, in good ordinary
repair, and there was nothing wrong about it, then the plaintiff cannot recover, because that would end the case." Again:
"So you see, gentlemen of the jury, the only question, so far
as the negligence of the defendant is concerned, is, was the
brake defective, out of order, not in reasonable repair, not reasonable for the occasion, and if not, was such fact the cause of
the accident, or did it materially or directly contribute to it ?"
Taking the instructions and the entire charge of the court
together, it is manifest that the jury understood the words
"as far as possible" - if they thought at all of mere wordsto mean "as far as possible," exercising reasonable care and
caution.
In Rogers v. The Mfarsh4al, 1 Wall. 644, 654, Mr. Justice
Davis, speaking for the court, well observed that " a nice criti-

BALTIMORE & POTOMHAC RAILROAD v. MACKEY.

8T

Opinion of the Court.

cism of words will not be indulged when the meaning of the
instruction is plain and obvious, and cannot mislead the jury."
And in Evanston v. Gunn, 99 U. S. 660, 668, Mr. Justice
Strong said: "Sentences may, it is true, be extracted from
the charge which, if read apart from their connection, need
qualification. But the qualifications were given in the context,
and the jury could not possibly have been misled." And so
in Tweed's case, 16 Wall. 504, 516: "Courts are not inclined
to grant a new trial merely on account of ambiguity in
the charge of the court to the jury, while it appears that the
complaining party made no effort at the trial to have the
point explained." See also The Sybil, 4 Wheat. 98.
What the court said to the jury, in respect of the point now
under consideration, was in harmony with the principles announced in Hough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213, 218, where
it was said that a railroad corporation was under an obligation "to provide and maintain in suitable condition the
machinery and apparatus to be used by its employ~s - an obligation the mdre important, and the degree of diligence in
its performance the greater, in proportion to the dangers
which may be encountered." Again, in the same case: "To
guard against the misapplication of these principles, we should
say that the corporation is not to be held as guaranteeing or
warranting the absolute safety, under all* circumstances, or
the perfection in all its parts, of the machinery or apparatus
which may be provided for the use of employ~s. Its duty
in that respect to its employ~s is discharged when, but only
when, its agents whose business it is to supply such instrumentalities exercise due care as well in their purchase originally as in keeping and maintaining them in such condition
as to be reasonably and adequately safe for use by- employ~s." See also Northern Pacifc Railroad v. Herbert, 116
U. S. 642; Washington & Georgetown Railroad v. XleDade,
135 U. S.554, 569.
3. The third assignment of error is that the case was tried
on the theory that the accident was attributable to a defective brake, contrary to the case made by the declaration. We
do not find in the record any specific exception upon which

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

this assignment is based. But if there were one, it could not
avail the defendant. It was alleged in the declaration that
"by reason of the negligence and default of the defendant, its
servants, agents, and employes," the car on which the deceased
was working "was run into by another of the defendant's
cars whereby the plaintiff's intestate, by collision of the said
cars, was so crushed and injured that death immediately followed." Whether these allegations were or were not sufficient to allow proof that the collision was the result of a
brake so defective that it could not control the cars which
ran back against the deceased and killed him, we need not
stop to consider, because both parties asked instructions upon
the theory that the jury were to inquire as to the defectiveness
of the brake. An instruction asked by the defendant, and
which is given above, involved the inquiry by the jury
whether the defectiveness of the brake, if it existed, was the
sole cause of Brown's death. Another instruction asked by
it assumed that the condition of the brake was a matter to
be inquired of by the jury. That instruction was as follows:
"If the jury shall find from the evidence that the injury to
Robert A. Brown resulted solely in consequence of some defect in the brake set by Teiling on the open or stock car next
to the engine and tender, and that said stock car was not the
property of the defendant, but belonged to another railroad
company, and had been, the same evening and a short time
prior to the accident, brought to the defendant's yard, in
Washington, in a freight train, with the brake in such defective condition, then the fact (if the jury shall so find the fact)
that such injuries did so result cannot be considered as evidence to support the charge of negligence against the defendant, and the defendant is entitled to the verdict." So that no
error was committed in submitting to the jury the question
whether the brake was defective, and whether that defect, if
found to be the cause of Brown's death, could have been discovered by the exercise of due care.
4. The fourth assignment of error was the refusal of the
court "to give the two instructions asked by counsel for the
defendant in respect to the degree of care required as to for-

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC RAILROAD v. MACKEY.

89

Opinion of the Court.

eign cars." The instructions referred to are those above
given.
The first of the two instructions asked by the defendant, so
far as it related to this subject, was properly refused because
it restricted all liability of the defendant for the defective
brake to the time when the car on which it was placed was
put into its train; in other words, as the court below well said,
if the brake was plainly shown to have become broken while
on the trip from Baltimore to Washington, there would, according to the defendant's instructions, be no liability whatever upon it for an injury arising from the use of the defective brake after the car reached its yard in the latter city.
That view cannot be approved.
The question as to the duty of a railroad corporation to take
due care that foreign cars hauled by them shall be in such condition as to be safely handled by its own employ~s, was carefully considered by the court below. Mr. Justice Hagner,
after observing that the great through trains, especially of
freight cars, are composed of cars belonging to different roads,
the proportion of such cars belonging to the particular road
over which they are passing being very small, said: "They
come from all portions of our country, and often from
Canada and Mexico. They are transported along each successive road for hire, and only for that consideration. The
employ~s of such road are obliged to handle every car in the
train in the same manner, without respect to its ownership,
and are exposed to the same dangers from defects of construction or mechanical appliances that may attend the management of the cars belonging to the road that employs them.
It would be most unreasonable and cruel to declare, that, while
the faithful workman may obtain compensation from a company for defective arrangement of its own cars, he would be
without redress against the same company if the damaged
car that occasioned the injury happened to belong to another
company."
The same question arose in Gottlieb v. -. Y & Lake Erie
Railroad,100 IN. Y. 462, 467, 469, which was an action by a
brakeman to recover for personal injuries received by him

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

while he endeavored, in obedience to orders, to couple two
cars that had broken apart in the night time while under way.
It appeared that the cars were not provided with proper
bumpers, and the absence of such bumpers was the cause of
the injuries inflicted upon the brakeman. The Court of Appeals of New York said: "The defect was an obvious one,
easily discoverable by the most ordinary inspection, and it
would seem to be the grossest negligence to put such cars into
any train, and especially into a train consisting of cars of different gauge. But these two cars did not belong to the
defendant. They belonged to other companies, and came to
it loaded, and it was drawing them over its road to their
destination. They were in good repair, and the defects were
in their original construction, they being just as they were
originally made. The defendant claims that it was bound to
receive and transport these cars over its road, and was under
no responsibility for any defects in their structure, and that
the plaintiff, upon entering its employment, assumed all risks
from such defects." After a review of some of the cases,
the court proceeded: "It will thus be seen that the utterances
of judges as to the responsibility of one company for the defective cars of another company drawn over its road are not
entirely harmonious, and we think all the authorities hold that
the company drawing the cars of another company over the
road owes, in reference to such cars, some duty to its employ~s. It is not bound to take such cars if they are known
to be defective and unsafe. Even if it is not bound to make
tests to discover secret defects, and is not responsible for such
defects, it is bound to inspect foreign cars just as it would
inspect its own cars. It owes the duty of inspection as master,
and is at least responsible for the consequences of such defects as would be disclosed or discovered by ordinary inspection. When cars come to it which have defects visible or
discoverable by ordinary inspection, it must either remedy
such defects or refuse to take such cars ; so much at least is
due from it to its employ~s. The einploy~s can no more
be said to assume the risks of such defects in foreign cars
than in cars belonging to the company. . . . The rule

BALTIIORE & POTOMAC RAILROAD v.

IACKEY. 91

Opinion of the Court.

imposing this responsibility is not an onerous or inconvenient
or impracticable one. It requires, before a train starts, and
while it is upon its passage, the same inspection and care as to
all the cars in the train."
In a later case - Goodrich v. N.
. Central & Hudson
River Raioad, 116 N. Y. 398, 401,- the same principle
was announced, the court saying: "It was decided in Gottlieb
v. N. Y, I. E. & TV. R. R. Co., 100 N. Y. 462, that a railroad
company is bound to inspect the cars of another company
used upon its road, just as it would inspect its own cars; that
it owes this duty as master, and is responsible for the conquences of such defects as would be disclosed or discovered
by ordinary inspection; that when cars come in from another
road which have defects, visible or discernible by ordinary
examination, it must either remedy such defects or refuse to
take them. This duty of examining foreign cars must obviously be performed before such cars are placed in trains upon
the defendant's road or furnished to its employ6s for transportation. When so furnished the employ~s whose duty it is to
manage the trains have a right to assume that, so far as ordinary care can accomplish it, the cars are equipped with safe
and suitable appliances for the discharge of their duty, and
that they are not to be exposed to risk or danger through
the negligence of their employer."
The defendant, in one of its requests for instructions, assumed
what the law will not sanction, that the defendant was under
no duty to ascertain the condition of cars belonging to another
company which constitute a part of its train, and which are to
be handled by its employ~s.
We are of opinion that sound reason and public policy concur in sustaining the principle that a railroad company is under
a legal duty not to expose its employ s to dangers arising from
such defects in foreign cars as may be discovered by reasonable
inspection before such cars are admitted into its train.
5. The fifth assignment relates to so much of the charge of
the court as is set forth in the thirteenth and fifteenth bills of
exceptions. It is sufficient to say that the exception, in each
instance, was in gross to a series of propositions, some of

OCTOBER TERIMI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

which, at least, were clearly right. Neither exception can. be
regarded. Beaver v. Taylor, 1 Wall. 637; 3lfoulor v. Am.
Life Ins. Co., 111 U. S. 335, 337; Conn. Life Ins. Co. v.
Union Trust Co., 112 U. S. 250, 261; Burton v. ]Vest Jersey
.FerryCo., 114 U. S. 474, 476.
6. The sixth assignment of error relates to the following
part of the charge to the jury : "Now, manifestly, you cannot
estimate in dollars and cents exactly what the damages are in
a case of this kind, if there be any at all. That is not possible.
But you may and you should take into consideration the age
of the man, his health and strength, his capacity to earn
money as you discover it from the evidence, his family - who
they are and what they consist of -and then, gentlemen, from
all the facts and all the circumstances, make up your mind
how much this family, if anything, probably lose by his death,
and that would be how much had this family a reasonable
expectation of receiving; how much had they a reasonable
expectation of receiving while he lived, if he had not been
killed."
It is suggested by counsel that this charge was in conflict
with the decision of this court in Pennsylvania Co. v. Boy, 102
U. S. 451, 459, which was an action to recover damages for
personal injuries caused by the negligence of the defendant.
It was there said: "There was, h6wever, an error committed
upon the trial, to which exception was duly taken, but which
does not seem to have been remedied by any portion of th6
charge appearing in the bill of exceptions. The plaintiff was
permitted, against the objection of the defendant, to give the
number and ages of his children - a son ten years of age, and
three daughters of the ages, respectively, of fourteen, seventeen, and twenty-one. This evidence does not appear to have
been withdrawn from the consideration of the jury. It certainly had no legitimate bearing upon any issue in the case.
The manifest object of its introduction was to inform the
jury that the plaintiff had infant children dependent upon him
for support, and, consequently, that his injuries involved the
comfort of his family. This proof, in connection with the impairmen't of his ability to earn money, was well calculated to

BALTIMORE & POTOMAC RAILROAD v, MACKEY.

93

Opinion of the Court.

arouse the sympathies of the jury, and to enhance the damages beyond the amount which the law permitted; that is,
beyond what was, under all the circumstances, fair and just
compensation to the person suing for the injuries received by
him. How far the assessment of damages was controlled by
this evidence as to the plaintiff's family it is impossible to
determine with absolute certainty, but the reasonable presumption is that it had some influence upon the verdict."
The question of damages in the present case must be determined by the special statute under which the plaintiff sued
and not by the general, recognized principles in the law
of torts. In Roy's case the plaintiff himself was the party
injured. He sued for compensation in damages for the personal injuries he received. Here, death ensued from the
wrongful act of the defendant. So the jury found. And the
plaintiff is the personal representative of the party injured.
The statute giving the remedy expressly excludes the creditors
of the deceased from any interest in the recovery, and declares
not only that the judgment shall inure exclusively to the benefit of his family, but that the damages, not exceeding ten
thousand dollars, shall be assessed "with reference to the
injury " done "to the widow and next of kin of such deceased
person." Under such a statute, it is entirely proper that the
jury should take into consideration the age of the deceased,
his health, strength, capacity to earn money, and family. The
injury done to a family consisting of a widow and helpless
young children, who depended for support entirely upon the
labor of a husband and father whose death was caused by the
wrongful act of others, is much greater than would be done
to any "next of kin" able to maintain themselves and who
have never depended, and had no right to depend, upon the
labor or exertions of the deceased for their maintenance.
7. The seventh assignment of error is that the judgment of
the general term, affirming the judgment of the special term,
was erroneous in declaring that the plaintiff recover "as in his
declaration claimed." The judgment in the special term was
for eight thousand dollars. Although the amount claimed in
the declaration was $10,000, the affirmance of the judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

of the special term is necessarily limited to the amount of the
judgment so affirmed; and the words "as in his declaration
claimed," carelessly put into the final order of the general
term, cannot have the effect to increase the sum actually
recovered in the special term. If the attention of the general
term had been called to the form of the judgment it would
have been put in proper shape. Such an inaccuracy in form
is not sufficient ground for reversal. The judgment to be
enforced is the one rendered in the special term.
We perceive no error in the record to the prejudice of the
defendant, and the judgment is
A ffirmedl.

PULLA N'S PALACE CARl COMPANY v. METROPOLITAN STREET RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF :MISSOURI.
No. 146. Argued January 11, 14, 1S95. - Decided March 4, 1895.

In June, 1887, the Pullman Car Company of Chicago wrote to the Mletropolitan Street Railway Company of Kansas City, proposing to build for it 25
cable cars according to specifications attached, and to deliver them free
on board the Pullman Junction in Illinois, the cars to be inspected and
accepted at the Pullman works, and to be paid for on delivery, the
written acceptance of the railway company to constitute a contract
mutually binding. Nothing was said about brakes except that they were
to be operated by gripmen with lever, both trucks. The railway company accepted in writing. The details of construction were then considered and agreed upon between the two companies. Nothing further
was said about brakes except that the railway company required them
to be heavy and extra powerful. Brakes were then designed by the car
company, but no designs of them were furnished to the railway company.
When 12 cars were finished, but before any had been delivered, the agent
of the railway company went, at the request of the car company, to the
shops of the latter in Illinois, and there made a thorough examination of
the 12 cars, working the brakes and carefully watching their operation.
He expressed himself entirely satisfied with them, and ordered the
others to be finished in the same way, and all to be forwarded. This

