OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

JONES v. EAST TENNESSEE, VIRGINIA AND
GEORGIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 2a3. Argued April 4, 1S95. -Decided

April 8, 1M95.

The record showed that plaintiff' asked six instructions, of which the court
gave two, declined to give one, and declined to give the other three
except as covered by the general charge. The whole charge was contained in the bill of exceptions, which thus concluded: "To which refusal and charge of the court and the exclusion of evidence offered, and
to the action of the court in refusing a new trial, plaintiff excepted and
tendered this bill of exceptions, which was signed and sealed by the court
and ordered to be made a part of the record in this cause." Held, that
this exception was insufficient.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

it.

Henry I-. Jageesoll for plaintiff in error.

31%. -Leon Jozt~olnon, appeared for defendant in error, but
the court declined to hear him.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE: This was an action on the case to
recover damages for injuries received through the alleged
negligence of the defendant. Ten errors were assigned, two
of which relate to the exclusion of evidence. As to one of
these, it was properly admitted at the bar that the evidence
in question was not excluded, and that so much of the record
as showed the contrary was taken from the record of a former
trial of the case. As to the other, no exception to the action
of the court was preserved. The remaining errors assigned
relate to the refusal to give certain instructions requested by
plaintiff, and to parts of the charge. The record shows
that plaintiff asked six instructions, of which the court gave
two, declined to give one, and declined to give the other three
except as covered by the general charge. The whole charge
is contained in the bill of exceptions, which thus concludes:

LAST CHANCE MIIN. CO. v. TYLER MIN. CO.

683

Syllabus.

"To which refusal and charge of the court and the exclusion
of evidence offered, and to the action of the court in refusing
a new trial, plaintiff excepted and tendered this bill of exceptions, which was signed and sealed by the court and ordered
to be made a part of the record in this cause." This exception
was insufficient. Rule 4 ; Rogers v. ie -Marshal, 1 Wall.
644; Harvey v. Tyler, 2 Wall. 328; Insurance Co. v. Sea, 21
Wall. 158; Beaver v. Taylor, 93 U. S. 46; Block v. Darling,
140 U. S.234, 238.
Judgment affirmed.

LAST

CHANCE

MINING COMPANY
MINING COMPANY.

v.

TYLER

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
CIRCUIT.
No. 6-1.

NINTH

Argued March 6, 7, 1895. - Decided April 15, 1895.

When the course of a mineral vein is across a claim, instead of in the direction of its length, the side lines of the location of the claim become, in
law, the end lines, and the end lines become the side lines.
When the jurisdiction of a controversy by a court is unquestioned, and the
cause proceeds to final judgment, and no review is sought for, the
judgment is conclusive upon the parties to the suit as to the matters
decided, but not as to matters which might have been decided, but
were not.
In an action, brought under the provisions of Rev. Stat. §§ 2324, 2325, by an
adverse claimant to a part of a mineral claim as located, the plaintiff
alleged a priority of location, and rested his right to recover upon it.
The defendant answered, but subsequently and before judgment withdrew his answer, and amended his application for a patent so as to exclude the tract in controversy.
At the trial the defendant did not
appear, but the plaintiff introduced evidence, oral and documentary.
The court made a finding of fact that the tract in controversy had already been located by the plaintiff as a part of his mining claim when
the defendant located his claim upon it, and that, consequently, it was
not subject to location by the defendant. Upon that finding it was
adjudged that, by reason of the law and premises, the plaintiff was the
owner of the disputed tract, that he was entitled to the possession of it,
and that he recover possession of it from the defendant. Held,
(1) That it appeared by the record that the court had in that case
passed upon and determined the question of priority of location,

