OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

COLVIN v. JACKSONVILLE.
APPEAL FROM THE

OIRGUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRIOT OF FLORIDA.
No. 874. Submitted March 11, 1695. -Decided

April 1, 1695.

May.nard v. Hecht, 151 U. S. 324, affirmed to the point that, "Where an
appeal or writ of error is taken from a District or a Circuit Court in
which the jurisdiction of the court alone is in issue, a certificate from the
court below of the question of jurisdiction to be decided is an absolute
prerequisite for the exercise of jurisdiction here; and if it be wanting
this court cannot take jurisdiction."

Ox May 3, 1894, John II. Colvin, describing himself as a
citizen of the State of Illinois, filed a bill of complaint in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Florida, against the city of Jacksonville, a municipal corporation of the State of Florida, and one D. U. Fletcher, mayor
of said city, wherein, alleging that he was the owner of property, real and personal, to the amount of $50,000 within said
city and subject to municipal taxation, he prayed that the
defendants should be restrained from issuing and disposing of
bonds of the city to the amount of one million of dollars.
The grounds of relief stated in the bill were that, after the
qualified electors approved the issue of the bonds payable in
lawful money, the city council, by ordinance, provided that it
should be payable in gold coin; and that the law under which
the question of issuing the bonds had been submitted to the
electors was illegal and void, because repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. The bill was subsequently
amended and an answer was filed, denying that the complainant was a citizen of the State of Illinois and that he had
taxable property in the city of Jacksonville to the amount of
$50,000.
There was a motion for an injunction and the appointment
of a receiver, and on the 3d day of December, 1S94, the court
denied the motion for an injunction; and thereupon the coin-

COLVIN v. JACKSONVILLE.
Opinion of the Court.

plainant filed a motion and asked leave to further amend his
bill by joining as parties complainant the names of other
owners of property assessable by the city, so that the joint
liability of such owners and the complainant would exceed
$2000 for taxes, and thus remove the objection to the jurisdiction of the court that the amount involved in dispute did not
exceed the sum of $2000.
On December 4, 1894, the court denied leave to amend the
bill, and made a final decree dismissing the bill for want of
jurisdiction. Thereupon the complainant prayed for an appeal
to the Supreme Court, which was allowed by the District
Judge.
.Mr. II. Bisbee for appellant.
.Mr.John C. Cooper for appellees.
a brief for same.

-Mr. A. W. Cockrell filed

M . JUSTICE SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It is claimed on behalf of the appellant that the appeal may
be sustained in this case because it is one in which the question
of the jurisdiction of the court below is in issue, and thus
within section five of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891.
But that section provides that "in such case the question
of jurisdiction alone shall be certified to the Supreme Court
from the court below for decision," and this record does not
disclose any such certificate.
Accordingly no course is left open to this court but to dismiss
the appeal for want of jurisdiction. Any discussion of this
question of practice is rendered unnecessary by the full treatment it received in the recent case of -Maynard v. Hecht, 151
U. S. 324, wherein it was held that in the instance of an appeal
upon the question of jurisdiction under the fifth section of the
act, a certificate by the Circuit Court presenting such question
for the determination of this court is explicitly and in terms
required in order to invoke the exercise by this court of its
VOL. CLVu-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

appellate jurisdiction, and that the absence of such certificate
is fatal to the maintenance of the appeal. See likewise Shields
v. Coleman, ante, 168.
A2 2peal dismissed.

STEVENS'S ADMINISTRATOR v. NICHTOLS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF aISSOURI.
No. 769. Submitted March 18, 1895. -Decided

April 1, 1S95.

The denial by a state court of an application to amend a petition for the
removal of the cause to a Federal court is not the denial of a right
secured by the Constitution of the United States.
MOTION to dismiss or affirm. In January, 1881, the defendant in error as plaintiff commenced a proceeding in the Circuit
Court of Pettis County, Missouri, to procure the issue of executions against Robert S. Stevens and another as stockholders in
the Texas & Atlantic Refrigerator Car Company, against which
he had previously recovered a judgment. This proceeding
was based upon section 736, Rev. Stats. Missouri, 1879 (now
section 9517, Rev. Stats. 1889). The proceeding was removed
by the defendants to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Western District of Missouri. In that court upon
proper pleadings a trial was had resulting in a verdict and
judgment in favor of the plaintiff and against each defendant for a separate amount. Stevens brought the judgment
against him to this court by writ of error, but on examination
it was found that the petition for removal was defective, in
that it failed to allege the existence of diverse citizenship at
the time of the commencement of the proceeding as well as at
the time of the application for the removal. The case was,
therefore, sent back to the United States Circuit Court, with
instructions to remand it to the state court. Stevens v. .lichols,
130 U. S. 230. This order was carried into effect by the United
States Circuit Court. In the state court thereafter an application was made for leave to amend the petition for the removal

