OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

the action of the Commissioner of Patents in the particular
matter was denied by reason of the various provisions of the
statute applicable thereto, among others one providing for
an appeal from the decision of the Commissioner to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, whose decision, as
expressly declared, (see. 49141, Rev. Stat.,) "shall govern the
further proceedings in the case." This special provision for an
appeal to a judicial tribunal, with a declaration as to the effect
of the decision of such tribunal, was held to be conclusive so
far as respects proceedings in the department. But the difference between the two cases is obvious. There is no special
provision for an appeal from the decision of the local land
officers as to the matter of settlement and improvement;
nothing, therefore, to take the case out of the general grant of
power to the Commissioner of the General Land Office and
the Secretary of the Interior to control all matters in respect
to the sale and disposal of the public lands.
It is unnecessary to pursue this discussion further. The
conclusions of the Supreme Court of the State of Washington
were correct, and the judgments are
Affi'rmed.

RALLI v. TROOP.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 46. Submitted April 27, 1894. - Decided April 1, 1895.

The scuttling of a ship by the municipal authorities of a port, without the
direction of her master or other commanding officer, to extinguish a fire
in her hold, is not a general average loss.
If the cargo in the hold of a ship moored in a port takes fire, and the port
authorities come on board with fire-engines, take charge of her, pump
steam and water into the hold, and move her and put her aground, without any objection by the master; and the master successfully removes
part of the cargo, and desires, and believes it to be prudent and feasible,
to remove more; but the port authorities forbid and prevent his doing
so, because of the danger of increasing the fire, and themselves ex-

RALLI v. TROOP.
Statement of the Case.
tinguish the fire by scuttling the ship, whereby she becomes a wreck, not
worth repairing; the loss of the ship is not a subject of contribution in
general average against the owners of the cargo, although the court is
of opinion that the measures thken by the port authorities were the best
available to save the cargo from greater loss.

THIs was a libel in admiralty, filed May 16, 1889, in the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York, by the charterers against the owners of the
British bark J. W. Parker, of St. John, New Brunswick,
alleging that pursuant to a charter-party, dated October 25,
1885, the libellants on February 16, 1886, loaded on the bark
in the port of Calcutta, to be carried to the port of New York,
at a certain rate of freight, a full cargo, consisting, among
other things, of 7592 bales of jute butts, and received from
her master bills of lading therefor, agreeing to transport the
jute to the port of Boston; that on the same day "fire broke
out, and said bark was thereby so badly damaged as to become
unseaworthy, and her said voyage was thereupon broken up
and abandoned by the respondents;" that afterwards 552
bales of the jute were delivered to the libellants at Boston
from a steamship; that the respondents failed and neglected
to deliver the remaining bales, and by their agent, the master
of the vessel, sold and delivered them at Calcutta, and received
and held the proceeds of the sale, and refused, on demand, to
pay them to the libellants, whereby the libellants were damaged to the amount of $22,000, the value of the undelivered
jute.
The respondents, in their answer, claimed a contribution in
general average. Admitting that the master sold the jute,
and that they received and held the proceeds, they alleged
the following facts: "In accordance with the terms and provisions of the charter-party, a cargo of jute had been laden on
said bark at Calcutta, and on February 18, 1886, said vessel
was ready for sea. Flames broke out in the hold of said bark
about 10 A.M. from causes unknown, but presumably from
spontaneous combustion of the jute in the bales, and said bark
and cargo were in great danger of destruction and of becoming a total loss. Immediately upon discovery of the fire, the

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

officer in charge of the J. W. Parker sent for the crews of the
neighboring vessels to assist, and under his supervision and
direction a quantity of water was poured down the forward
ventilator and fore hatchway, after which those openings were
tightly covered with a sail, and all ventilators closed. ILater
the engines of the port came to assist, and their hose, charged
with fire-extinguishing chemicals, were let into the hold through
holes cut in the deck. Other sacrifices and measures were
taken against the common danger, which resulted. in saving
652 bales of jute uninjured, although the residue of said cargo
was so much damaged that the same was condemned and
sold. The 552 bales aforesaid were forwarded by steamer to
Boston, and there delivered to the libellants."
The respondents further alleged that they executed an
average bond; that an adjustment of general average was
made, which showed that the proceeds of the sale of cargo at
Calcutta amounted to $20,752.83, and that the balance due to
the owners of cargo was $7420.48, which they were ready to
pay to the libellants, and had deposited in the registry; and
denied any other liability to the libellants.
The District Court held that the respondents were entitled
to a general average, and confirmed the adjustment, and
entered a decree in favor of the libellants for said sum of
$7420.48, and interest, for the reasons stated in its opinion in
37 Fed. Rep. 888.
The libellants appealed to the Circuit Court, which made
the following findings of facts:
"1. Libellants, who constituted the firm of Rlalli Brothers,
of New York and Calcutta, on October 25, 1885, chartered
the British bark J. W. Parker to load jute and saltpetre for a
voyage from Calcutta to New York.
"2. The vessel accordingly proceeded to Calcutta, and,
while moored in the river there, was fully laden by libellants
with '7592 bales of jute butts and 1062 bags of saltpetre, for
which the master signed the usual bills of lading, undertaking
to deliver said cargo at Boston.
"3. On the morning of February 18, 1886, a port pilot
came on board and took charge of unmooring, preparatory to

RALLI v. TROOP.
Statement of the Case.

taking the bark to sea. All the hatches had been tightly
covered the night before. As the anchor chain was hove in,
it was necessary for a man to go into the chain locker forward
to stow the chain. To reach the locker, the fore hatch had
to be opened. Thence one could go through a narrow passage, about three feet wide and three feet high, between the
jute bales, to the chain locker, which was about eight feet
forward of the hatch. Ernest Edwards, an able seaman, who
had been several months on the bark, took a globe lantern,
which did not have a lock, but in which the lamp was screwed
into the body of the lantern, and, by the mate's orders, went
through the fore hatch into the chain locker to stow the chain.
This was between 9 and 10 o'clock A.M. A few minutes afterwards, he was heard to scream. At the same time, smoke
was seen coming out of the ventilators. The men who tried
to rescue him were driven back by the smoke in the fore
hatch. Edwards was suffocated. His body was afterwards
found in the chain locker.
"4. Thereupon the second officer of the bark caused an
alarm to be sounded by ringing the vessel's bell, and from
sixty to seventy men from the crews of the neighboring
vessels came to his assistance. These men brought buckets
with them; water was poured from the buckets into the fore
hold. A force-pump on the bark, and another force-pump
brought from a ship near by, were both playing large streams
of water down the hold. After half an hour of this work, the
hatches were covered with wet sails and tarpaulins, but the
pumps were kept playing into the chain lockers.
"5. Between 11 and 12 o'clock, and while both force-pumps
were still being steadily worked, the port authorities came
with fire-engines, and took direction of the vessel; and on
the return on board of the master he found the port authorities in charge. The port fire-engines, charged with fire-extinguishing chemicals, were placed through holes cut in the
deck. During the night the fire-engines continued pumping
in steam; and in the morning the fore hatchway was opened,
and six hose were played on the fire in the fore hold, but, as
this seemed to increase the fire, the hatches were put on

OCTOBER TER.M, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

again. The port authorities then moved the ship, and put
her aground. In the forenoon, the captain removed 552 bales
of jute from the bark, and desired to remove more; but the
port authorities objected, and forbade it, because of the
danger of increasing the fire. During that day the port
authorities pumped water in the ship; and during the night
and following morning the fire was extinguished by the vessel
being scuttled. The master believed that it was prudent and
feasible to discharge more cargo at the time he was prevented
from doing so by the authorities. The measures taken by
the mate before the port authorities took charge of the ship,
and those subsequently taken by the port authorities, were
the best available to extinguish the fire, and to save greater
loss upon the cargo.
"6. The fire was communicated to the said cargo by the
lamp carried by the seaman Edwards while on his errand to
the chain locker; but whether the occurrence happened by
the accidental breaking of the glass of the lantern, or whether
by his act in removing the lamp from the lantern, or whether
by the lamp becoming unscrewed, or how the occurrence took
place, cannot be ascertained. Jute or jute butts in bales is
very inflammable cargo, and a lamp or lantern in which the
flame is exposed cannot safely or prudently be carried through
such a narrow passage as Edwards had to pass. At the time,
there was in force a regulation of the port of Calcutta, which
had been duly promulgated by the proper authorities, as follows: ' Rule 30. INo person shall smoke, or use naked lights
of any description, in the hold or between decks of any vessel
lying in the port. Closed lanterns, secured by a lock and key,
and in charge of an officer of the vessel, shall alone be taken
between decks and into the hold.' Neither the master nor
the officers of the bark had any notice of this regulation.
"7. The jute had been packed in the bark's hold as closely
as the compressed bales could be forced together by screws.
The effect of the water poured on the jute was to expand it,
and spring up the decks, break the hatch coamings, and draw
out the timbers. The raising of the decks and starting of the
beams was observed early in the morning of the day after the

RALLI v. TROOP.

391'

Statement of the Case.

fire. The swelling continued even after a portion of the cargo
was removed. The J. W. Parker became a wreck, not worth
repairing.
"8. The master, when the port authorities allowed him to
resume charge of the vessel, acting for the best interests of all
concerned, proceeded to save the residue of the cargo that
remained in the vessel. By the outlay of about $8000 for men
and lighters, to get the damaged jute out of the bark, and for
repacking it in condition for sale, he was able to land the same
in godowns or warehouses. He consulted the firm of Turner,
Morrison & Co., who were agents of the underwriters on cargo,
and followed their directions as to landing the cargo before
sale. Surveys were then had, and the cargo was condemned
and sold as unfit to go forward, and realized on such sale
$20,752.83. The ship was also condemned as unseaworthy,
and was sold for 8000 rupees, equal to about $2716.24.
"9. The said master, second officer, and a seaman of said
bark, duly made and extended, under oath, a protest against
the said fire, and against the said actions of the said port
authorities in depriving the master of his said command, and
in refusing to permit of the discharge of cargo after it had
been commenced, and in causing the said vessel to be stranded
or scuttled, and in allowing the tidewater to rise over her
deck.
"10. On March 8, 1886, the owners of the bark J. W.
Parker offered to turn over all the cargo to the libellants, if
they should sign an average bond. This offer was made in
New York, and was declined.
"11. The 552 sound bales of jute were transshipped by the
captain, and were delivered to libellants' agents at Boston.
An average bond was then executed by libellants, by which it
was provided that the general average should be adjusted by
Jacob R. Telfair, an average adjuster at the port of New York.
This was in pursuance of the following clause of the charterparty: 'All questions of average to be settled in accordance
with York-Antwerp rules and the established usages and laws
of the port of destination, to be stated by average adjusters
appointed by charterers' agents and approved by owners.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

"12. On December 7, 1886, a general average adjustment
was made up in accordance with the York-Antwerp rules and
the usages of said port. The libellants presented to their
adjuster various claims for their disbursements, which were
allowed as general average, as were also certain disbursements, by the underwriters upon the cargo.
"13. By the adjustment as made up as aforesaid, it was
found and stated, after allowing the general average due to the
vessel, that the libellants, as owners of the jute, were entitled
to an average contribution of $5335, and to the further sum
of $1283 for the loss of their saltpetre, together with the
sum of $290.51 for advances and profits upon their charterparty, and $227.76 for certain disbursements of Ralli Brothers
incurred in connection with said average adjustment. The
owners of the vessel were willing to abide by this adjustment,
but libellants or their underwriters declined to accept the same.
"14. Some months afterwards this action was begun. The
respondents thereupon paid into court the full amount found
due to libellants and to their underwriters by said adjustment,
and gave security for the residue of libellants' demand.
"15. The District Court having made a decree sustaining
said average adjustment, but condemning respondents in interest upon the sum of $5335 as the contribution due for the
loss on the jute, also in the sum of $77.89, the amount of the
clerk's fees on respondents' deposit, the respondents thereupon
paid into that court the further sum of $286.S6, making the
full amount of the decree of the District Court."
The charter-party and the protest were made parts of the
findings of facts. But so much of either as is material to
the decision of the case is stated in those findings.
The Circuit Court made the following conclusions of law:
"1. The extinguishing of the fire at Calcutta was a general
average act, and the water damage so incurred was a general average sacrifice, for which contribution is due from all
interests thereby benefited.
"2. An average bond having been given by the libellants,
and the loss being adjudged a proper subject of general average,
and no errors being shown in the adjustment, the libellants

RALLI v. TROOP.
Opinion of the Court.

are entitled to a decree for the balance stated by the adjustment as aforesaid, and for no more.
"3. The respondents are entitled to their costs in this court."
The decree of the District Court was thereupon affirmed,
.and, on February 5, 1890, the libellants appealed to this court.
The case was argued here on the 19th and 20th of March,
1894. On the 23d of the following. April an order was made
restoring it to the docket for reargument; or, if counsel
desired, for resubmission on or before April 27, 1894, on the
briefs already filed or additional briefs. On that day it was
accordingly resubmitted by the same counsel.
.M'. Sidney Ghubb for appellants.
-Mr. IHarringtonPutnam,for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE GRAy, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The law of general average, coming down to us from remote
antiquity, is derived from the law of Rhodes, through the law
of Rome, and is part of the maritime law, or law of the sea,
as distinguished from the municipal law, or law of the land.
The typical case is that mentioned in the Rhodian law preserved in the Pandects of Justinian, by which, if a jettison of
goods is mad6 in order to lighten a ship, what is given for the
benefit of all is to be made good by the contribution of all.
Cavetur ut, si levandce navis gratidjactus mereium factus est,
omnium contributionesarciatur,quod _pro onznibus datum est.

Dig. 14, 2, 1, 1.
Another case of general average, put in the Pandects, and
the only one, beside jettison, mentioned in the Judgments of
Oleron, or in the Laws of Wisby, is the cutting away of a
mast to save ship and cargo. Dig. 14, 2, 1, 4; Oleron, arts. 8,
9; Wisby, arts. 7, 11, 14.
The distinction between voluntary and compulsory sacrifice
is well illustrated by another case stated in the Pandects,
recognized in the earliest English case on general average,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

and approved in all the books, in which money voluntarily
paid by the master to ransom the ship and cargo from pirates
is to be contributed for; but not so, as to goods or money
forcibly taken by pirates. Dig. 14, 2, 1, 5 ; Hicks v Palington,
(32 Eliz.) Moore, 297.
In the courts of England and America, general average has
not been restricted to the -cases put by way of illustration in
the Rhodian and Roman laws; but it has never been extended
beyond the spirit and principle of those laws.
In the earliest case in this court, Mr. Justice Story, in delivering judgment, stated the leading limitations and conditions, as
recognized by all maritime nations, to justify a general contribution, as follows: "First, that the ship and cargo should
be placed in a common imminent peril; secondly, that there
should be a voluntary sacrifice of property to avert that peril;
and, thirdly, that by that sacrifice the safety of the other
property should be presently and successfully attained."
Columbian Ins. Co. v. AshbSy, 13 Pet. 331, 338.
In the next case which came before this court, Mr. Justice
Grier, in delivering judgment, defined these requisites, somewhat more fully, as follows: "In order to constitute a case of
general average, three things must concur: 1st. A. common
danger, a danger in which ship, cargo and crew all participate; a danger imminent and apparently Iinevitable,' except by
voluntarily incurring the loss of a portion of the whole to save
the remainder. 2d. There must be a voluntary jettison,jactus,
or casting away of some portion of the joint concern for the
purpose of avoiding this imminent peril, _periculi imminentis
evitandi cansa, or, in other words, a transfer of the peril from
the whole to a particular portion of the whole. 3d. This
attempt to avoid the imminent peril must be successful."
Barnard v. Adams, 10 lHfow. 270, 303.
There has been much discussion in the books as to whether
the right to a general average contribution rests upon natural
justice, or upon an implied contract, or upon a rule of the
maritime law, known to and binding upon all owners of ships
and cargoes. But the difference has been rather as to forms
of expression, than as to substantial principles or legal results.

RALLI v. TRtOOP.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Justice Clifford, speaking for this court, stated, in several
cases, as the basis of general average, that natural justice
requires that where two or more parties are engaged in a
common sea risk, and one of them, in a moment of imminent
peril, makes a sacrifice to avoid the impending danger, or
incurs extraordinary expenses to promote the general safety
of the associated interests, the loss or expenses so incurred
shall be assessed upon all in proportion to the share of each
in the adventure. McAndrews v. Thatcher, 3 Wall. 348, 366 ;
The Star of Hope, 9 Wall. 203, 228; -Fowlerv. 1?athbones, 12
Wall. 102, 114; Hobson v. Lord, 92 U. S. 397, 404. That the
doctrine applies only where something, which is part of the
common adventure, is sacrificed solely for the benefit of
the rest of the adventure, is apparent in those cases. In
.McAndrews v. Thatcher, it was held that there could be no
contribution for expenses incurred after the master had abandoned the stranded ship, and had left her in charge of the
agent of her underwriters; because, as the court said: "Complete separation had taken place between the cargo and the
ship; and the ship was no longer bound to the cargo, nor the
cargo to the ship. Undoubtedly the doctrine of general average contribution is deeply founded in the principles of equity
and natural justice; but it is not believed that any decided
case can be found, where the liability to such contribution has
been pushed to such an extent as that assumed by the plaintiffs." 3 Wall. 372. In The Star of Hlope, and in Fowler v.
1athbones, the general average allowed was for the loss of the
vessel by stranding by the voluntary act of the master. See
-Emery v. Hluntington, 109 Mass. 431, 436. And in HEobson v.
Lord, the contribution allowed was for wages and provisions
of the crew while assisting in repairing the injuries suffered
by the vessel from such a stranding.
In Wright v. Marwood, in which it was held by the English Court of Appeal that a jettison, by the master, of cattle
carried on deck, though proper and necessary for the safety
of the ship, did not give a right to general average, Lord
Justice Bramwell said: "It is not necessary to say what is the
origin or principle of the rule; but, to judge from the way it is

OCTOBER TERMr, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

claimed in England, it would seem to arise from an implied
contract inter se to contribute 'by those interested.'" The
judgment, however, was put upon the ground that, whether
the rule was treated as arising from implied contract, or as a
matter of positive law, it was subject to an exception in the
case of goods loaded on deck, unless a deck cargo was customary. 'TQ. B. D. 62, 67.
In Burton v. Englis]h, in the same court, in which the charterparty stipulated that the ship should be "provided with a deck
load, if required, at full freight, but at merchant's risk," and
the last words were held not to exclude the right to a general
average contribution for a necessary jettison of timber carried
on deck, Lord Justice Brett, (since Lord Esher, Master of the
Rolls,) in answering the question, "By what law does the right
arise to general average contribution ?" said: "I do not think
that it forms any part of the contract to carry; and that it does
not arise from any contract at all, but from the old Rhodian
laws, and has become incorporated into the law of England as
the law of the ocean. It is not as a matter of contract, but in
consequence of a common danger, where natural justice requires
that all should contribute to indemnify for the loss of property
which is sacrificed by one in order that the whole adventure
may be saved. If this be so, the liability to contribute does
not arise out of any contract at all, and is not covered by the
stipulation in the charter-party on which the defendants rely."
129 Q. 3. D. 218, 220, 221.
In the same case, Lord Justice Bowen, with characteristic
clearness and felicity of expression, said of the same question:
"In the investigation of legal principles, the question whether
they arise by way of implied contract or not often ends by being a mere question of words. General average contribution is
a principle which comes down to us from an anterior period of
our history, and from the law of commerce and the sea. When,
however, it is once established as part of the law, and as a portion of the risks which those who embark their property upon
ships are willing to take, you may, if you like, imagine that
those who place their propeity on board a ship on the one side,
and the shipowner who puts his ship by the quay to receive

RALLI v. TROOP.
Opinion of the Court.

the cargo on the other side, bind themselves by an implied
contract which enibodies this principle, just as it may be said
that those who contract with reference to a custom impliedly
make it a portion of the contract. But that way, although
legally it may. be a sound way, nevertheless is a technical way
of looking at it. This claim for average contribution, at all
events, is part of the law-of the sea, and it certainly arises in
consequence of an act done by the captain as agent, not for
the shipowner alone, but also for the cargo owner, by which
act he jettisons part of the cargo on the implied basis that contribution will be made by the ship and by the other owners.
of cargo. He makes the sacrifice on behalf of one principal,
whose agent of necessity he is, on the implied terms, if you
like to call it so, that that principal shall be indemnified afterwards by the rest." 12 Q. B. D. 223.
As the right to general average may be considered as resting not merely on implied contract between the parties to the
common adventure, but rather on the established law of the
sea, in the light of and subject to which all owners of ships.
and cargoes undertake maritime adventures, so the authority
of the master may be treated as resting either on implied
contract of the parties, or on the duty imposed upon him by
the law, as incident to his station and office, to meet thenecessity created by an emergency which could not be foreseen.
or provided for, and to prevent the property in his custody
and control from being left without protection and care.
Sir William Scott, speaking of the powers and duties of themaster, said: "Though in the ordinary state of things he is
a stranger to the cargo, beyond the purposes of safe custody
and conveyance, yet in cases of instant and unforeseen and
unprovided necessity, the character of agent and supercargo
is forced upon him, not by the immediate act and appointment
of the owner, but by the general policy of the law; unless
the law can be supposed to mean that valuable property in
his hand is to be left without protection and care. It must
unavoidably be admitted, that in some cases he must exercise
the discretion of an authorized agent over the cargo, as well
in the prosecution of the voyage at sea, as in intermediate,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

ports, into which he may be compelled to enter." ie illustrated this by the case of jettison to be contributed for in
general average, by the case of ransom, and by the case of
sale of perishable cargo in a port of necessity, and added:
"In all these cases, the character of agent respecting the
cargo is thrown upon the master, by the policy of the law,
acting on the necessity of the circumstances in which he is
placed." Tlie Gratitudine,3 0. Rob. 240, 257, 258, 260.
In the case of The Hornet, reported as Zawrence v. lfinturn, 17 How. 100, in which the question was whether a
certain jettison of goods was lawful as against their owner,
Mr. Justice Curtis, delivering the judgment of this court,
spoke of the authority of the master in the threefold aspect,
as "imposed on him by the nature of the case," as "derived
from the implied consent of all concerned in the common
adventure," and as "intrusted to him by the law," saying:
"The nature of the case imposes on the master the duty, and
clothes him with the power, to judge and determine, upon
the facts before him, whether a jettison be necessary. He
derives this authority from the implied consent of all concerned
in the common adventure. The obligation of the owners is
to appoint a competent master, having reasonable skill and
judgment and courage; and they are liable, if through his
failure to possess or exert these qualities, in any emergency,
the interest of the shippers is prejudiced. But they do not
contract for his infallibility, nor that he shall do, in an
emergency, precisely what, after the event, others may think
would have been best. If he was a competent master; if an
emergency actually existed, calling for a decision, whether
to make a jettison of a part of the cargo; if he appears to
have arrived at his decision with due deliberation, by a fair
exercise of his skill and discretion, with no unreasonable
timidity, and with an honest intent to do his duty, the jettison
is lawful. It will be deemed to have been necessary for the
common safety, because the person, to whom the law has
intrusted authority to decide upon and make it, has duly
exercised that authority." 17 How. 100, 109, 110. See also
Dupont v. Vance, 19 How. 162, 166, 1'70.

RALLI v. TROOP.
Opinion of the Court.

In former times, when merchants voyaged with their wares,
their consent was held necessary to a jettison ; and the captain
was also required to consult with his officers, or with some of
his crew, then, perhaps, more nearly his equals than in later
times. But, even then, the final decision rested with the
captain; for, as Emerigon said, "The captain is master. He
is obliged to take advice; but the law does not oblige him to
submit himself blindly to that advice, if it is bad, or if, under
the circumstances, it appears to be bad." Emerigon on Ins.,
c. 12, sect. 4, ยง 3; sect. 40, ยง 3; The Nimrod, 1 Ware, 1,
13-15.
At the present day, since voyages are longer, and merchants
seldom go with their goods, there is the greater reason that
upon the captain, selected for his skill and courage, and for
his fitness to command the whole adventure, and to decide
promptly and justly in cases of emergency, and better acquainted than any one else with the qualities and condition
of the ship, and with the nature and stowage of her cargo,
should rest the authority and the duty, in case of imminent
peril, first taking such advice as he sees fit, to determine
finally, so far as concerns the mutual relations of those interested in the maritime adventure, the time and the manner
of sacrificing part of the adventure to secure the safety of the
rest.
In the leading case of Columbian Ins. Co. v. Ashby, already cited, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Story, said:
"A consultation with the officers may be highly proper, in
cases which admit of delay and deliberation, to repel the imputation of rashness and unnecessary stranding by the master.
But if the propriety and necessity of the act are otherwise
sufficiently made out, there is an end of the substance of the
objection. Indeed, in many, if not most, of the acts done on
these melancholy occasions, there is little time for deliberation
or consultation: What is to be done must often, in order to
be successful, be done promptly and instantly by the master,
upon his own judgment and responsibility." 13 Pet. 343,
S44.
In The Star of Hove, already cited, this court said: "From

OCTOBE1R TERAI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the necessity of the case, the law imposes upon the master the
duty, and clothes him with the power, to judge and determine
at the time whether the circumstances of danger in such a case
are or are not so great and pressing as to render a sacrifice
of a portion of the associated interests indispensable for the
common safety of the remainder. Standing upon the deck of
the vessel, with a full knowledge of her strength and condition, and of the state of the elements which threaten a
common destruction, he can best decide in the emergency
what the necessities of the moment require to save the lives of
those on board and the property intrusted his care." 9 Wall.
230, 231.
If the master does not exercise reasonable skill and judgment and courage in sacrificing goods for the benefit of the
adventure, the master and the owner of the ship are each
liable to the owner of the goods sacrificed. Barnard v.
Adams, 10 How. 270, 304; awrence v. Minturn, 17 How.
100, 110, above quoted.
After a voluntary sacrifice of part of the adventure, and a consequent escape of the rest from imminent peril, the owner of
the ship, or in his absence the master as his agent, has the duty
of having an adjustment made of the general average, and has
a maritime lien on the interests saved, and remaining in his
possession, for the amount due in contribution to the owner
of the ship; and the owner of goods sacrificed has a corresponding lien on what is saved, for the amount due to him.
Cutler v. Rae, 7 How. 729, 731, 732; Dupont v. Vance, 19
How. 162, 168-171; Strang v. Scott, 14 App. Cas. 601, 606,
607 ; 3 Kent Com. 244.
Whether the master is considered as acting under 'an implied contract between the owners of the vessel and the shippers of the cargo, or as the agent of all from the necessity of
the case, or as exercising a power and duty imposed upon him
by the law as incident to his office - whatever may be considered the source of his authority - the power and the duty
of determining what part of the common adventure shall be
sacrificed for the safety of the rest, and when and how the
sacrifice shall be made, appertain to the master of the vessel,

RALLI v. TROOP.
Opinion of the Court.

magister navis, as the person intrusted with the command
and the safety of the common adventure, and of all the interests comprised therein, for the benefit of all concerned, or
to some one who, by the maritime law, acts under him, or succeeds to his authority.
In case of the master's death, disability or absence, no
doubt, the mate or other chief officer of the vessel may succeed to the authority of the master, in this as in other
respects. The Ann C. Pratt,10 N. Y. Leg. Obs. 193; 1 Curtis, 340, and 18 How. 63.
In Pi'ice v. NT oble, 4 Taunt. 123, in which a necessary jettison, made after a privateer had captured the ship, had taken
out her captain and crew, except the mate and two men, and
had put a prize master and crew on board, was held (the ship
having been recaptured by the mate, and carried into a British port) to be a ground for contribution in general average,
the jettison was made, as the report states, "with the assistance and approbation of the mate;" and the prize master
and crew, as the court noted, "had so much better an opinion
of the judgment of the mate, than of their own, that they
consulted him and intrusted him with the navigation, and the
stores seem to have been thrown over by his own individual
direction." And Lord Tenterden so understood that case, saying that it was there decided "that the shippers of goods were
liable to contribution for stores necessarily and by the advice
of the mate thrown overboard, after the ship was captured,
and while in possession of the enemy; for the capture, without condemnation, did not devest the property of the owners
while a spes recuperandi remained." Abbott on Shipping,
(11th ed.) 528.
A German commentator has suggested that, if a peril should
be encountered while a pilot has command of the vessel, a
case may be supposed in which the pilot might order a sacrifice in contradiction to the master, without depriving the
sacrifice of the character of a general average loss. Ulrich,
Haverei Gesetze, 6. But no judicial decision has been found,
which recognizes a right in the pilot to make a jettison or
other sacrifice. The reason for requiring a vessel to take a
VOL. CLVii-26

OCTOBER TER-M, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

pilot is his familiar acquaintance with particular waters. "His
duty," said Mr. Justice Story, speaking for this court, "is
properly the duty to navigate the ship over and through his
pilotage limits, or, as it is commonly called, his pilotage
ground." Thie Hope, 10 Pet. 108, 123. To the pilot, therefore, temporarily belongs the whole conduct of the navigation
of the ship, including the duty of determining her course and
speed, and the time, place and manner of anchoring her.
Cooley v. Board of Wfrardens, 12 How. 299, 316; The Ch'ristiana, 7 Moore P. 0. 160, 171; Tle City of Cambridge,L. R1.
5 P. C. 451. But the master still has the duty of seeing to
the safety of the ship, and to the proper stowage of the cargo.
For instance, the duty to keep a good lookout rests upon the
master and crew. The lena, L. R. 1 P. 0. 426. And it has
been held by Dr. Lushington, in the English High Court of
Admiralty, that, although a pilot is in charge, the trim of the
ship is within the province of the master; The Argo, Swabey,
462; as well as the duty, if two vessels are entangled together,
to cut away part of the rigging of his vessel, when necessary,
in order to avoid a collision, or to lessen its effect; because the
vessel, the judge said, " was not under the orders of the pilot
for this purpose; she was only under the pilot's directions for
the purpose of navigation; and the master, in a case of this
description, is not to wait for the pilot's directions, which
would tend to create great confusion .and delay." The -)Iassachusetts, 1 W. Rob. 371, 373. Rigging so cut away by the
master would seem to be a subject of general average, as between the vessel and her cargo. Lowndes on Average, (4th ed.)
109, 110; 1 Parsons on Shipping, 351.
The authority of the pilot, as regards general average, was
not touched by the decision of this court in Thze China, 7
Wall. 53, by which a vessel, in charge of a pilot whom she
had been compelled by law to take on board, and brought by
his negligence into collision with another vessel, was held,
upon a libel in rem, to be liable in damages to the owners of
that vessel. That decision proceeded, not upon any authority
or agency of the pilot, derived from the civil law of master
and servant, or from the common law, as the representative of

RALLI v. TROOP.
Opinion of the Court.

the owners of the ship and cargo; nor upon the law of contribution in general average as between them; but upon a distinct principle of the maritime law, namely, that the vessel, in
whosesoever hands she lawfully is, is herself considered as the
wrongdoer, liable for the tort, and subject to a maritime lien
for the damages. '7 Wall. 68. As said by MIr. Evarts, in his
argument for the libellants, "This theory treats the faults of
conduct in the vessels navigation as imputable to the vessel
itself, and discards as immaterial all considerations touching
the aajustment among the navigators, or between them and
the owners, of the personal fault or personal responsibility
of the misgovernment of the vessel." 7 Wall. 56. And, as
observed by this court, in another case decided at the same
term, cases of general average "certainly are not cases of tort."
Te Eagle, 8 Wall. 15, 23. It is worthy of notice, also, that
the responsibility of the vessel for torts does not include her
cargo. The lMalek Adhel, 2 How. 210, 235-237; The Victor,
Lushington, 72; TDie Flora,L. R. 1 Ad. & Ec. 45, 48.
But if a general average loss could be held to arise from an
act of a pilot, without or against the order of the master of
the vessel, it could only be because the pilot, by the maritime
law, and by reason of his nautical skill and experience, temporarily took the place of the master, and was specially charged
with the command and the safety of the whole maritime
adventure, and of that adventure only. However it might be
with a pilot, there is no case, in England or America, before
the one at bar, in which a sacrifice made by a stranger, in no
way connected with the navigation of the ship, or with the
control or the care of the ship and cargo, as a distinct maritime adventure, has been held to give a right to contribution
in general average.
There can be no general average, unless there has been a
voluntary and successful sacrifice of part of the maritime
adventure, made for the benefit of the whole adventure, and
for no other purpose, and by order of the owners of all the
interests included in the common adventure, or the authorized
representative of all of them. The safety of any property, on
land or water, not included in that adventure, can neither

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

be an object of the sacrifice, nor a subject of the contribution.
For example, from early times and in all countries, the
master has been required, upon arrival of the ship in port, to
make, with some of the crew, a protest, upon oath, that the
jettison was made for the safety of the ship and lading, and
for no other cause. Oleron, art. 8; Wisby, art. 20; 1 !falyne,
(3d ed.) 113; Beawes, (4th ed.) 148; 2 -olloy, c. 6, ยง 2; Marsh.
Ins. (5th ed.) 433 ; Abbott on Shipping, (11th ed.) 526.
The first edition of Arnould on Marine Insurance, indeed substantially following 2 Phillips on Insurance, c. 15, sec. 2,
(2d ed.) 96 - contained this paragraph: "If, with a view to
the general safety of ship and cargo, it becomes necessary to
damage and destroy another ship, or any part thereof, the loss
thereby incurred must, it seems, be made good by a general
average contribution. Thus, if a number of ships are lashed
together and one takes fire, and the crews of the others unite
in scuttling the burning ship for the safety of the rest, the loss
of the ship so sunk is said to be a general average loss, to
which all those saved thereby must contribute; and the law
is the same if a crew, for the safety of their own ship, cut the
cable of another." 2 Arnould on Ins., pt. 3, c. 4, (1st ed.) 895,
896. This is not laid down absolutely, but only as "it seems,"
and " is said."
The authorities there cited, as to contribution for one ship
taking fire and scuttled to save neighboring ships, are Casaregis,
disc. 46, no. 45; Ordinance of Bilbao, c. 20, art. 21; and 2
Azuni on Maritime Law, c. 3, art. 2. Casaregis states the point
as a doubtful one, and the authorities to which he refers are
conflicting, and more or less influenced by local law or custom.
The Ordinance of Bilbao was a peculiar and local ordinance,
apparently not in accord with the general law of Spain. 2
SMagens, 400; Stevens and Benecke on Average, (Amer. ed.)
166 ; Gregorio Lopez, ad Partidas, pt. 7, tit. 15, 1. 12, note 2.
And Azuni, speaking by way of illustration only, treats the
right to destroy, and the duty to make contribution, as alike
in the cases of a burning ship on the sea, and of a burning
house upon land.

RALLI

. TROOP.

Opinion of the Court.

But the law of general average, in England and America,
is limited to property included in a maritime adventure; and
has no application to other property, on land, or to contracts
relating to such property. In Welles v. Boston Ins. Co., 6
Pick. 182, sometimes cited as a judicial application of general
average to insurance of buildings or their contents against fire,
there was nothing of the kind. That was an action on a
policy of insurance against fire on a stock of goods, the owners
of which, upon the breaking out of a fire in the neighborhood,
and with the consent of the insurance company, and in order
to save the goods and the building containing them, procured
blankets, wet them, and spread them on the outside of the
building, whereby the building and goods were saved, and
the blankets rendered worthless. The insurance company
having admitted its liability for such proportion of the value
of the blankets as the amount of its insurance on the plaintiffs'
goods bore to the whole value of their goods and building, the
court had no occasion to pass and did not pass upon that,
saying only that, for a proportion of the sacrifice made by the
plaintiffs, "they are equitably, if not legally, entitled to
recover." The only claim in controversy was the claim of
the plaintiffs to recover the whole value of the blankets, or at
least to a contribution from neighboring buildings insured
by the same company; and this claim was disallowed by the
court.
By our law, indeed, either public officers or private persons
may raze houses to prevent the spreading of a conflagration.
But this right rests on public necessity, and no one is bound
to compensate for or to contribute to the loss, unless the town
or neighborhood is made liable by express statute. 2 Kent
Com. 338, 339; Bowditch v. Boston, 101 U. S. 16; Taylor v.
Plymouth, 8 Met. 462; The John Perkins, 21 Law Reporter,
87, 97; The James P. -Donaldson,19 Fed. Rep. 264, 269.
Another instance of a right founded on necessity is the case
of The Gravesend Barge, or HMouse's case, decided and reported by Lord Coke, in which it was held that in a tempest,
and to save the lives of the passengers, a passenger might cast
out ponderous and valuable goods, without making himself

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

liable to an action by their owner. 12 Rep. 63; S. C. 1 Rol.
R. 79; 2 Bulstr. 280.
The suggestion of Arnould, in the passage above cited, that
a ship, whose crew, for her safety, cut the cable of another
ship, must contribute in general average for the value of the
cable, is directly contrary to the opinion of Labeo, preserved
in the Pandects, and approved by Emerigon. Labeo scribit,
si cum vi ventoramt navis imopulsa esset in funes anchorarum
alterius, et nautce funes prcecidissent,si 'ullo alio modo, nisi
preeisisfunibus,explicaTe sepotiit,nullarm actionem dandan.
Dig. 9, 2, 29, 3 ; Emerigon on Ins., c. 12, sect. 14, ยง 5.
In the case of a collision between two vessels, by the fault
of both, the maritime law everywhere, by what has been
called ',usticum judichm, apportions equally between both
vessels the damages done to both. Te Catharine,17 How.
170; The .N7ortA Star, 106 U. S. 17; Te _Max .Aforr'is, 13T
U. S. 1. But if the collision, without fault on the part of
either vessel, is caused by inevitable accident, as by the one
being driven by a storm against the other, then, although by
the law of some European countries the loss is apportioned,
yet by our law, as by the laws of Rome and of England, each
vessel must bear her own loss, and, as said by Mr. Justice
Story, "it is not the subject of apportionment, or contribution,
or of general average in any form." Peters v. Marren Ins.
Co., 3 Sumner, 389, 394; Thte Iashington, 14 How. 532,
538; The Tohn Fraser,21 How. 184, 194.
In the later editions of Arnould, by Machlachlan, the paragraph above quoted has been doubtingly retained, and finally
omitted, and the following propositions laid down: "The
.singular law relating to this subject, adopted and observed
by all the maritime peoples of Europe, and now also of America," "is unknown to us, except in connection with seafaring
adventure." "When the danger is of a total loss of the common adventure, so imminent and conclusive as in the view of
a judicious and skilled mariner to admit of but one alternative,
and that the alternative of a sacrifice, say of part of the
whole, the making of such sacrifice is justified in fact, becomes
a duty of the master as agent of all, and is a general average

RALLI v. TROOP.4

.1

407

Opinion of the Court.

act in law." "In order to its being a general average act, it
must have been done for the common adventure." 2 Arnould
on Ins., pt. 3, c. 4, (3d ed.) 782; (5th ed.) 813, 814, 820, 832.
Mr. Justice Shee, in a note to Abbott on Shipping, after reviewing the statements of many continental writers upon the
subject, concludes: "Upon the whole, it is impossible, consistently with the opinion of Lord Tenterden, and with the
doctrine of all the writers on maritime law, whose opinions
have not been warped by the exceptional legislation or practice of the countries in which they have written, to recognize
a rule respecting ship's expenses more comprehensive than
the following one: Expenses voluntarily and successfully incurred, or the necessary consequences of resolutions voluntarily and successfully taken, by a person in charge of a sea
adventure, for the safety of life, ship and cargo, under the
pressure of a danger of total loss or destruction imminent and
common to them, give, the ship being saved, a claim to general average contribution." Abbott on Shipping, (11th ed.)
537, note. In Harrison v. Bank of Australasia,L. R. 7 Ex.
39, 48, that statement was quoted as laying down the true
rule, although there was a difference of opinion as to whether
the facts of the case came within it. See also Robinson v.
Price, 2 Q. B. D. 91, 94, 295.
The general maritime law is in force in this country, so far
only as it has been adopted by our own laws and usages. The
Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 572; The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24,
29; Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397,
444.

Three important decisions in the courts of the United States
directly support the position that, in order to give a right to
contribution in general average, the sacrifice must have been
made for the safety of the common adventure, and for no other
purpose. The MHary, 1 Sprague, 17; The John Perkins, 3
Ware, 89, and 21 Law Reporter, 87; The James P. onaldson,
19 Fed. Rep. 264, and 21 Fed. Rep. 671.
In The Mtary, in the District Court of the United States for
the District of Massachusetts, Judge Sprague, a most eminent
admiralty judge, held that a voluntary sacrifice, made for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

general benefit of the whole adventure, and also for the particular benefit of the cargo, was not a subject of general average. 1 Sprague, 19.
In Tie John Perkins, in the District of M1assachusetts, two
schooners, the John Perkins and the Wyvern, having accidentally been enclosed in a large and dangerous field of ice,
and being in great peril, and the crews of both vessels having
left them and escaped to the shore, except one Nickerson, who
remained on board the Wyvern, which was at anchor, he, perceiving the John Perkins drifting towards the Wyvern, and to
prevent a collision, cut the Wyvern's cable, and thus prevented
the destruction of both vessels; and a libel was filed by him,
and by the master, in behalf of the owners, officers and crew
of the Wyvern, claiming salvage, and also damages, or else a
contribution in general average, for the loss of her cable and
anchor. Judge Ware in the District Court, and Mr. Justice
Curtis in the Circuit Court on appeal, both held that neither
the claim of salvage nor that of general average could be sustained; and Mr. Justice Curtis, reversing in this respect only
the decision of Judge Ware, held that there could be no recovery in ,damages for the value of the cable and anchor.
3 Ware, 89; 21 Law Reporter, 87.
2r. Justice Cuirtis declared that the right of contribution in
general average had never been, so far as he was aware, and
could not be, extended beyond those who had voluntarily embarked in a common adventure; and therefore decided that
the cutting of the cable of the one vessel by her crew, to avoid
or escape an apprehended collision with the other vessel, made
no case for contribution in general average. After saying,
"It is certainly true that such a claim, when viewed theoretically, has an equity very similar to, if not identical with, that
on which the famous Rhodian law was founded, and out of
which the more modern doctrines of the law of general average have grown," he added, "At the same time, it is quite
clear that the Roman law never applied the principle between
mere strangers," and cited the opinions of Labeo and of
Emerigon, above referred to, as being upon "the precise case
under consideration, except that the cable is cut by the mari-

IRALLI v. TROOP.
Opinion of the Court.

ners of the other vessel, which can scarcely weaken the claim."
He further observed that in Duont v. Vance, 19 How. 162, as
well as in Lawrence v. -1inturn, 17 How. 100, both cited
above, this court "considered that the master, in case of necessary voluntary sacrifice to escape peril, was acting as the
authorized agent of all concerned in the common adventure,
and so bound all by his act, a principle which could hardly
apply between mere strangers." After referring to other
authorities, he said that in Sturgis v. Cary, 2 Curtis, 382, 384,
he had declared that he did not consider the right to recover
a general average contribution as arising from a contract, but
from "a principle of natural justice, that they who have received a common benefit from a sacrifice voluntarily made by
one engaged in a common adventure, should unite to make
good the loss which that sacrifice occasioned;" and concluded
as follows: "But I never entertained a doubt, that from
the relation of the parties to a common adventure, the law
would imply a contract for the purpose of a remedy; nor did
I then suppose that it would be implied between strangers,
who were not united in a common adventure by one or more
contracts of affreightment. The ancient as well as the modern codes of sea laws proceed upon the assumption that the
master, representing all the aggregate interests by holding
that office, has the rightful power to judge upon the sacrifice
-of one of the interests which he thus represents, for the benefit of the others. But they afford no ground for the position
that he may judge and act for mere strangers, whose property
has not been confided to his care. In my opinion, the only subjects bound to make contribution are those which are united
together in a common adventure, and placed under the charge
of the master of the vessel, with the authority to act in emergencies as the agent of all concerned, and which are relieved
from a common peril by a voluntary sacrifice made of one of
those subjects. Consequently, I must reject the claim for general average." 21 Law Reporter, 97, 98.
That judgment of Mr. Justice Curtis clearly shows that
in his opinion there could be no general average, except upon
a voluntary sacrifice of part of the common adventure, for

OCTOBER

TERlf, 1894.

Opinion of the Court.

the benefit of the adventure alone, and made by the owners
of the interests engaged in that adventure, or by the master
representing them all; and therefore the cutting of the cable
of one vessel to avoid an impending collision with another
vessel driven by a storm, would not be a subject of contribution between the two vessels, whether the cable was cut by
the vessel to which it belonged, or by the other vessel.
In Tle James P. Donaldson, in the Eastern District of
Michigan, Mr. Justice Brown, then District Judge, and Mr.
Justice Matthews, each fully approved and strongly relied on
that judgment, and on the principle which governed it, although they differed as to the application of the principle to
a claim of general average against a tug for the abandonment
of her tow of barges, with the intention, and with the effect,
of losing the tow and saving the tug.
In the District Court, Judge Brown said: "It is true there
are in this case many of the elements which go to entitle the
barges to a general average contribution, as stated in the
leading case of Barnard v. Adams, 10 low. 270; still I
know of no case wherein the principle of mutual contribution
has been extended beyond the ship, her boats, tackle, apparel,
furniture, and cargo. I understand the law of general average
to be an outgrowth of the law maritime as applied to the
carriage of goods by sea. It is never applied to cases of a
voluntary sacrifice of property upon land, when made to preserve the property of others from a greater loss." "Indeed,
the cases have gone so far as to hold that the parties themselves who commit an act of depredation for the public safety
are not liable in trespass." After referring to a number of
authorities, he stated his conclusions as follows: "From this
review of authorities, it is quite apparent that the doctrine of
general average contribution arises from the peculiar relations
existing between the ship and her cargo." "The law of
general average is confined to those cases wherein a voluntary
sacrifice is made of some portion of the ship or cargo for the
benefit of the residue, and it has no application to a contract
of towage." 19 Fed. Rep. 269, 270, 272.
In the Circuit Court, on appeal, Mr. Justice Matthews,

RALLI v. TROOP.
Opinion of the Court.

after citing the passage, above quoted, from the first edition
of Arnould on Insurance, said that "it must be admitted that
no judicial precedent to that effect has been found in the decisions of either English or American courts; and that the case,
as put, lacks the necessary element of a common interest,
united by consent of several owners, delivered by the authorized act of a common agent, from an imminent peril threatening the whole, by the voluntary sacrifice of a part." And
he reversed the decision of the District Court solely because,
as he thought, the tug and the barges were not strangers to
each other, but by the contract of towage were bound together
and interested in a common adventure, and the master of the
tug had charge of the navigation of the whole tow for the
voyage and for the purposes of that navigation, and, to meet
its exigencies, was invested with authority to act for all. 21
Fed. Rep. 676, 678.
This summary of the grounds of the two opinions delivered
in The James P. Donaldson sufficiently shows that both proceeded upon the fundamental principle in general average,
that the sacrifice must be made solely for the benefit of the
common adventure, and that the interests of strangers to that
adventure neither contribute nor are contributed for.
Doubtless, acts necessary to save the common adventure
from an impending peril, or from its consequences, may either
be done by the master and crew themselves; or else the
master of the ship, or the owner, if present, may, in a proper
case, avail himself of the aid of other private persons, or of
public authorities, and necessary and reasonable expenses paid
for such aid may be a subject of contribution in general
average. The Star of Hope, 9 Wall. 203, 227, 234 ; Gage v.
-Libby, 1d: Allen, 261, 269; R-ose v. Bank of Australasia,(1894)
App. Cas. 687.
In this country, when a ship is on fire, damage caused to
goods in the hold by water, either poured down from above,
or let in by scuttling the ship, by the master, or under his
order and direction, for the purpose of saving ship and
cargo, has long been considered a subject of general average.
Columbian Ins. Co. v. Ashby, 13 Pet. 331, 340; 1 Parsons on

OCTOBER TERAI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Shipping, 365; and many cases cited below. In such a case,
at one time, the practice of English adjusters was to allow
only the damage done to the ship by cutting holes in her to
admit the water, but not the damage done by the water to
the ship or cargo. Lowndes on Average, (4th ed.) 68. But
.that practice was changed, in deference to the opinion of the
Court of Queen's Bench, (although any expression of opinion
upon the point was avoided in the Exchequer Chamber,) in
Stewart v. TVest India Co., (1873) L. R. 8 Q. 13. 88, 362. And
the law of England in that respect has since been settled in
accordance with our law. Mtitecross Co. v. Savill, (1882) 8 Q.
B. D. 653.
By Rule 3 of the York-Antwerp Rules of 1877, adopted
while the law of England upon that question was unsettled,
and referred to in the charter-party of the J. W. Parker,
"damage done to a ship and cargo, or either of them, by
water or otherwise, in extinguishing a fire on board the ship,
shall be general average; except that no compensation be
made for damage done by water to packages which had been
on fire." All those rules, like the Glasgow Resolutions of
1860, and the York Rules of 1864, relate only to the subjects
of contribution in general average, and do not touch the
question by whom the voluntary sacrifice must be made.
Lowndes on Average, (4th ed.) appx. U.
The Resolutions of the International Congress at Brussels,
in 1888, while they likewise include, among the things considered as subjects of general average, "damage caused to the
ship, and to the goods not injured by the fire, as the result of
extinguishing a fire taking place on board," lay down, in the
first article, as the leading principle of general average, _es
avaries communes sont les dipenses extraordinaireset les sacriftcesfaits volontairementpar le capitaine ou d'aprs ses ordres,
opour le hien et le salut commun du navire et du chargementwhich may be rendered in English: "General average is an
extraordinary expenditure or a sacrifice voluntarily made by
the captain or pursuant to his orders, for the common good
and safety of the ship and cargo." Actes du Congr6s International de Droit Commercial de Bruxelles, (1888) pp. 418, 4:19.

RALLI v. TROOP.
Opinion of the Court.

In none of the cases cited by the appellees, was property,
sacrificed to put out a fire, by direction of others than the
master or mate of a ship, adjudged to be a general average
loss.
In Nraick v. Hirues, 25 Penn. St. 366, in which a fire had
broken out on a steamboat lying at a wharf, it was by
direction of her officers, that steam and water were poured
into the hold by means of her own apparatus and hose, and
that she was afterwards scuttled. In Heye v. lTorth German
-loyd, 33 Fed. Rep. 60, and 36 Fed. Rep. '705, also, the fire
was extinguished by the officers and crew only. In Gregory
v. Orrall, 8 Fed. Rep. 287, the floating fire-engines used in
putting out the fire were apparently employed by the master
and under his control. In ]ielson v. Belmont, 5 Duer, 310, 322,
and 21 N. Y. 36, the fire-engine companies were hired by the
master of the ship, and the question controverted was whether
a valuable part of the cargo, previously put by him on board
another vessel, was liable to contribute.
In Tlie Roanoke, 46 Fed. Rep. 297, and 53 Fed. Rep. 270,
in the District Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Wisconsin, although the fire department took part
in extinguishing the fire, everything was done by the direction
and with the approval of the master. Judge Jenkins, in
overruling exceptions to the libel, said: "It was a selection by
the master for sacrifice of that which by the act must necessarily be destroyed." "The master must be presumed to have
designed the consequences necessarily resulting from the act
directed." "The objection that the act was that of the
municipal authorities, without direction or concurrence on the
part of the master, is ill sustained in point of fact. The protest discloses that the alarm was given, and the fire department called into action, by the master of the vessel. The
action of the firemen was therefore by his procurement. Subsequent flooding was the direct act of master and crew."
46 Fed. Rep. 299, 300. And his decision on the merits was
based upon this postulate: "The master is made the agent,
in the law, of the vessel, of the cargo, of the parties owning
the cargo and owning the vessel, and given the discretion in

OCTOBER TERI,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

time of emergency to subject the one to loss for the preservation of the other." 53 Fed. Rep. 271. His opinion was
approved and adopted by the Circuit Court of Appeals, without further discussion of the question. 18 U. S. App. 407.
The opinion of Judge Hanford in The Rapid Transit, 52 Fed.
Rep. 320, contains only a very brief and general statement
of facts, and is rested on the authority of the first opinion of
Judge Jenkins in The Roanoce.
In Whitecross Co. v. Savill,. 8 Q. B. D. 653, in the English
Court of Appeal, a fire which had broken out in the hold of
a ship, while she was lying at a wharf in her port of destination, was extinguished by pouring water into the hold, pursuant to the orders of the master, and it was the consequent
damage to the cargo from his act that was held to be a general average loss. Lord Coleridge said: "It must be shown
that an imminent peril existed, and that the master, deliberately and for the sake of preserving the adventure, sacrificed
that in respect of which contribution is claimed." 8 Q. B. D.
659. And Lord Justice Brett said: "If there is an imminent
danger, and if the captain sacrifices part in order to save the
rest of the adventure, a claim for a general average contribution arises." "It has been said that the defendant's vessel
might have been scuttled; but the expense of raising and
repairing her would have entitled her owners to a general
average contribution; and because an apparently alternative
mode of proceeding existed, the captain cannot be said to have
acted unreasonably." 8 Q. B. D. 662, 663.
The members of a fire department, or other persons, under
the command of municipal officers of a port, and not under the
employment and direction of the master of the ship, are simply executing a public duty, and are not acting, by any implication of contract or of law, for or in behalf of the owners of
the ship and cargo. The .Mary F1rost, 2 Woods, 306; The
Cherokee, 31 Fed. Rep. 167, 170 ; IFamsutta.Mills v. Old Co7ony Steamboat Co., 137 Mass. 471.
Considering how ancient and universal is the law of general
average, how frequent the occasions for invoking it under
every variety of circumstances, and how diverse the opinions

RALLI v. TROOP.
Opinion of the Court.

which have been expressed in regard to its application and
extent, it is significant that the learned arguments of counsel,
supplemented by further researches, have disclbsed no commercial code, no opinion of a commentator, and no judicial
decision, supporting a claim to contribution in general average
for the destruction of ship or cargo by the municipal authorities of a port, without the direction of the master or other
commanding officer of the ship. That being so, it is difficult
to see how the parties to a maritime adventure can be considered either to have contracted to contribute to such a loss, or
to be subjected by the law, without their consent, to the duty
of so contributing.
The first and only case, so far as we are aware, in which a
claim of general average was ever made, in any court, for the
destruction of vessel or cargo by act of the municipal authorities of a port, without the order or concurrence of the master
or commanding officer of the vessel, was in the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in lFamsutta .Hills v. Old Colony
tea bnoat Co., (1884) 137 Mass. 471. In that case, a steamship with her cargo having just arrived in the port of New
Bedford, and lying at a wharf near other vessels and near
buildings, a fire broke out in her hold. The chief engineer of
the fire department of the city went to the vessel with firemen and fire-engines, and, acting entirely on his own judgment, without any orders or directions from, or conference
with, the officer in charge of the vessel, ordered holes to be
cut in her, through which water was poured by the engine
into the hold until the vessel sank. The mate and crew were
present, but rendered no assistance in extinguishing the fire;
and no objection to the use of the water was made by the
mate, or by the master, when he arrived. What was done
was necessary to extinguish the fire, which, if allowed to burn,
would have spread to the neighboring vessels and buildings.
A claim of general average was made against the owner of
the steamship by an owner of cotton on board, damaged by
the water poured into the ship by the fire department.
The court, speaking by Mr. Justice Field, since Chief Justice of Massachusetts, admitted that, "although the steamship

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

was at her wharf, the maritime adventure was not at an end;
the ship was still bound to the cargo for its safe delivery; and
the cotton, on account of which the suit has been brought,
was undischarged ;" and that "it must be considered that it
is now established that damage to unburnt portions of the
cargo, caused by water intentionally used to extinguish a fire
in a ship, is of the nature of a general average loss." 137
Mass. 472.
Yet the claim of general average was disallowed, because
the fire was not extinguished by the master or by any person
in charge of the steamship or her cargo, but by the chief engineer of the fire department of the city, acting not as the
agent of the owner of the ship, but under his own public
employment, vesting him with authority over all property
within the municipality, the burning of which was dangerous;
and the essential requisites of a general average loss were
stated as follows: "To constitute a general average loss,
there must be an intentional sacrifice of a part of the property, for the purpose of saving the remainder from a common
peril, or extraordinary expenditures must be incurred for the
purpose of saving the property in peril. The authority to
determine when a sacrifice should be made, and what property shall be sacrificed, rests with the master or other person
lawfully in command of the ship. His right to sacrifice the
property of other persons than the shipowner is derived from
necessity, whereby, in circumstances of great peril, he becomes
the agent of all persons whose property in the common
adventure is in peril. If this property is injured or destroyed
by strangers to the ship and cargo, who are not employed by
the master or other person in command, it is not a general
average loss. This is evident, if the act of the stranger is a
tort; but we do not see that it makes any difference in principle, if the act of the stranger is justifiable, on the ground of
public or paramount right. The distinction between a fire
put out by the authority of the master, or other person in
command, and one put out by public authority, without
regard to the will of the master, we think, is sound. When
a ship has been brought to a wharf, so far as it has become

RALLI v. TROOP.
Opinion of the Court.

subject to municipal control, if that control is exercised, we
think that it stands no differently from any other property
within the municipality, over which the same control has
been exercised; and that the general maritime law does not
cover the reciprocal rights and obligations of the parties to
the maritime adventure, so far as the consequences of this
control are concerned, but that they are to be determined by
municipal law." 137 Mass. 473, 474.
The case at bar comes to this court by appeal from the
Circuit Court under the act of February 16, 1875, c. 77, ยง 1,
by which that court is required to state its findings of facts
and its conclusions of law separately, and the jurisdiction of
this court is limited to the determination of the questions of
law presented by the record. 18 Stat. 315. The findings
of facts by the Circuit Court are conclusive, and cannot be
added to or qualified, by referring to the evidence taken in
the cause, or to the opinion of that court, or of the District
Court. The Annie Iindsley, 104 U. S. 185, 187; Sun Ins. Co.
v. Ocean Ins. Co., 107 U. S.485, 500; The Gazelle, 128 U. S.
474, 484; TIe City of -Yew York, 147 U. S.72, 76.
The leading facts found by the Circuit Court are as follows:
The vessel, when the cargo in her hold took fire, was moored
in the port of Calcutta, and near other vessels, as is shown by
the finding of fact that, as soon as the mate sounded the
alarm of fire, "from sixty to seventy men from the crews of
the neighboring vessels" came to his assistance, bringing their
buckets with them, as well as a force-pump "from a ship
near .by,"and poured water into the hold. Afterwards, the
port authorities came with fire-engines, and took the direction
of the vessel, and were found by the master, when he returned
on board, in charge of her. The port authorities pumped
steam and water from their engines into the hold, and moved
the vessel from her moorings and put her aground. The
master does not appear to have objected to their taking charge
of and moving the ship, and any objection on his part would
have been futile, for it was clearly within their powers as conservators of the port. The master successfully removed part
of the cargo, and desired, and believed it to be prudent and
VOL. cLV -- 27

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

feasible, to remove more.

But the port authorities forbade

and prevented his doing so, because of the danger of increasing the fire, and, acting upon their own judgment, extinguished the fire by scuttling the vessel, whereby she became
a wreck, not worth repairing. The master, being then permitted by the port authorities to resume charge of the vessel,
saved the rest of the cargo in a damaged condition.
If the course desired and proposed by the master had been
followed, the injuries, either to the cargo or to the ship, or to
both, might have been different from those caused by the
measures taken by the port authorities; and the difference in
the property sacrificed might have affected the adjustment of
contribution in general average.
The Circuit Court, indeed, has found, as facts, that "the
measures taken by the mate before the port authorities took
charge of the ship, and those subsequently taken by the port
authorities, were the best available to extinguish the fire, and
to save greater loss upon the cargo." -But it is not found
whether the motive and purpose of the port authorities was
to save this vessel and her cargo, or to save other vessels and
property in the port; whereas, in order to constitute a general
average, the sole object of the sacrifice must appear to have
been to save this vessel and cargo. Moreover, by the law of
general average, the question what measures were the best and
most prudent, the most feasible and available, to extinguish
the fire, or, in other words, what part of the maritime adventure should be sacrificed, and in what manner, for the safety
of the rest of the adventure, was to be determined by the
master at the time of the emergency; and his determination,
faithfully and reasonably made, was, so far as affects the
right of mutual contribution between the parties to the adventure, not to be overruled by the municipal authorities at the
time, or by the court long afterwards.
The result of the principles above stated, confirmed by the
authorities above referred to, may be summed up as follows:
The law of general average is part of the maritime law,
and not of the municipal law, and applies to maritime adventures only.

RALLI v. TROOP.
Opinion of the Court.

To constitute a general average loss, there must be a voluntary sacrifice of part of a maritime adventure, for the purpose,
and with the effect, of saving the other parts of the adventure
from an imminent peril impending over the whole.
The interests so saved must be the sole object of the sacrifice, and those interests only can be required to contribute to
the loss. The safety of property not included in the common
adventure can neither be an object of the sacrifice, nor a
ground of contribution.
As the sacrifice must be for the benefit of the common
adventure, and of that adventure only, so it must be made by
some one specially charged with the control and the safety of
that adventure, and not be caused by the compulsory act of
others, whether private persons or public authorities.
The sacrifice, therefore, whether of ship or of cargo, must be
by the will and act of its owner, or of the master of the ship,
or other person charged with the control and protection of
the common adventure, and representing and acting for all the
interests included in that adventure, and those interests only.
A sacrifice of vessel or cargo by the act of a stranger to
the adventure, although authorized by the municipal law to
make the sacrifice for the protection of his own interests, or
-of those of the public, gives no right of contribution, either
for or against those outside interests, or even as between the
parties to the common adventure.
The port authorities are strangers to the maritime adventure, and to all the interests included therein. They are in
no sense the agents or representatives of the parties to that
adventure, either by reason of any implied contract between
those parties, or of any power conferred by law over the
adventure as such.
They have no special authority or special duty in regard
to the preservation, or the destruction, of any vessel and her
cargo, as distinct from the general authority and the general
duty appertaining to them as guardians of the port, and of
all the property, on land or water, within their jurisdiction.
Their right and duty to preserve or destroy property, as
necessity may demand, to prevent the spreading of a fire, is

OCTOBER TERMIf 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, JJ.

derived from the municipal law, and not from the law of the

sea.
Their sole office and paramount duty, and, it must be
presumed, their motive and purpose, in destroying ship or
cargo, in order to put out a fire, are not to save the rest of a
single maritime adventure, or to benefit private individuals
engaged in that adventure; but to protect and preserve all
the shipping and property in the port, for the benefit of the
public.
In the execution of this office, and in the performance of
this duty, they act under their official responsibility to the
public, and are not subject to be controlled by the owners
of the adventure, or by the master of the vessel as their
representative.
In fine, the destruction of the J. W. Parker by the act of
the municipal authorities of the port of Calcutta was not a
voluntary sacrifice of part of a maritime adventure for the
safety of the rest of that adventure, made, according to the
maritime law, by the owners of vessel or cargo, or by the master
as the agent and representative of both. But it was a compulsory sacrifice, made by the paramount authority of public
officers deriving their powers from the municipal law, and the
municipal law only; and therefore neither gave any right of
action, or of contribution, against the owners of property benefited by the sacrifice, but not included in the maritime adventure, nor yet any right of contribution as between the owners
of the different interests included in that adventure.
MR. JUSTICE JAcKsoN, now absent, took part in the decision
of this case, and concurs in the opinion of the court.
.Decree P'eversed, claim of general average for loss or damage by the acts of theport authorities disallowed, and case
remanded to the Circuit Court for frther'proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
MR.

JUSTICE

BRowN, with whom concurred MNi.

JusTICE

HARLAN, dissenting.

I am compelled to dissent from the opinion of the court in
this case. I find myself unable to escape the conviction that

RALLI v. TROOP.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, JJ.

a person who has lawful possession of a vessel, and exercises
the authority of a master over it, either by appointment or
consent of the owner, or by operation of law, is to be considered the master _pro hac vice, and competent to bind the
vessel or her cargo by all acts within the scope of his apparent authority.
There is in this case a failure to find an important fact,
namely, whether the action of the port authorities was taken
in the interest of the ship and cargo alone, or in the interest
of other neighboring property exposed to the conflagration.
In the opinion of the court it is assumed that the barque was
moored near to other vessels, from the fact found by the
Circuit Court that as soon as the mate sounded the alarm of
fire, "from sixty to seventy men from the crews of the neighboring vessels came to his assistance," bringing their buckets
with them, as well as a force-pump "from a ship near by,"
and poured water into the hold. That appears to me very
slender evidence upon which to base the opinion that the
action of the port authorities was dictated mainly by a desire
to prevent a general conflagration, especially in view of the
fact that the District Judge in his opinion, which under our
rules is sent up with the record in the case, states that "if it
appeared in this case, or if the evidence warranted the inference that their measures were adopted in. view of any actual
or supposed danger to the port, or to other ships, and that
they acted differently than if the common benefit of the ship
and cargo alone were considered; in other words, if there was
any sacrifice of the ship and cargo for the supposed interest
of other property, I should consider the case not one of general average. But there is no evidence to warrant any such
inference. This ship was far from shore, and apparently
threatened no other property. The circumstances do not
indicate that there was any conflict of interests between the
ship and the shore; or that the port officials in any degree
designed to sacrifice, or did sacrifice, any interest of the cargo
to the safety of other property. There was no occasion and
no motive for their doing so. The most that can be inferred
is that there was some difference of judgment between them

OCTOBER TE10(, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, Jj.

and the master as to the amount of exposure it was prudent
to permit to the smouldering fire; and in case of a difference
of judgment, the determination must rest upon those upon
whom the law for the time being imposes the responsibility
of action; in this case, the port officials." He further finds
that "the port officials were by law in command while the
ship was on fire; that the purpose of the act of sacrifice was
the common good of the ship and cargo alone; that the circumstances indicate that there was not in this case any interest of the port, or of other vessels, that in the least influenced
the port officials in their action, or the smallest sacrifice of the
ship or cargo in reference to any outside interests."
It may be true that the facts here stated, not being incorporated in the findings, are not such as can be considered by
us upon appeal to this court; but speaking for myself, I think
the case should have been remanded for a further finding upon
this point, since it is quite possible these facts might be considered as having a bearing upon the result. The opinion,
however, is put upon the broad ground that the sacrifice must
not only be for the benefit of the common adventure, but
must be made by some one specially charged with the control
and safety of that adventure, and must not be caused by the
compulsory act of others, whether private parties or public
authorities. To this I am unable to give my assent.
No authority is cited in support of this proposition except
the single case of the ]amsutta -Hills v. Old Colony Steam
Boat Co., 137 Mass. 471, in -which it appeared that the steamship was lying at a wharf, " near other vessels, and near buildings," when a fire broke out in her hold, and that what was
done was necessary to extinguish the fire, which, if allowed to
burn, wduld have spread to the neighboring vessels and buildings. The opinion of that court, though perhaps broader in some
of its statements than the circumstances of the case called for,
carefully distinguishes between cases where action is taken for
the protection of the vessel and cargo alone, and those wherein
action is taken for the supposed benefit of the public. In delivering this opinion, Mr. Justice Field said "that it was necessary to do what he" (the chief engineer) "did, not only for

RALLI v. TROOP.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, JJ.

the purpose of saving the ship and cargo, but for preventing
the spread of the fire to buildings and other property in the
city.
.
. No one has a right to have his property burn,
if thereby the property of others is endangered. . . . In
taking possession of property for the purpose of extinguishing a fire that threatens to spread to other property, the chief
engineer does not act as agent of the owner, but under a
paramount right. If, indeed, the fire does not endanger the
property of others, he may act merely as the agent of the owner;
but if the safety of other property is imperilled, he must act
under his public responsibility." While this case is distinguishable from the one under consideration in the particular above
stated, its general statements have not escaped criticism. At
the annual meeting of the British Association of Adjusters the
case was commented upon by the president as "much at variance with our law," that is, the law of England.
I see no reason for criticising the case of the John Perkins,
and none for changing the opinion expressed by me in the case
of the James P. Donaldson. But it seems to me they have
only the remotest analogy to the case under consideration.
The first case involved the power of the custodian of a ship,
who for the time being represented the master, to bind another
ship to contribute to the sacrifice of the cable and anchor of
his own ship. The second case involved the right of a tow to
recover compensation in general average for a sacrifice made
by the master of another ship, namely, the tug by which she
was being towed, in casting off her tow line and suffering her
to go ashore. In each case there was an attempt to extend
the law of general average beyond the ship and cargo engaged
in the particular adventure.
A case which seems to me to be more closely allied in principle to the one under consideration is that of The China,
7 Wall. 53, in which this court held, contrary to the English,
but conformably to the continental, authorities, that a vessel
was liable for the consequences of a collision through the negligence of a pilot taken compulsorily on board, although it was
admitted that, if the action had been at common law against
the owner, and probably also in personam in admiralty, there

OCTOBER TEIR,

1894.

Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, JJ.

could have been no recovery, as a compulsory pilot is in no
sense the agent or servant of the owner. The opinion must
necessarily rest upon the ground that the vessel is in some
sense herself a principal, and any one having lawful command
of her is, for the time being, her agent, for whose conduct she
is herself responsible both in contract and in tort. The principle of the case is, that a person who is exercising the authority of a master by operation of law is to be considered as
nasterpro ac viee, and as invested with authority as such.
While the master is, under ordinary circumstances, undoubtedly the person to direct that the sacrifice should be
made, it was held in Price v. 2oble, 4 Taunt. 123, that a
jettison made by a prize crew put on board of a British ship
was a proper subject for a general average contribution.
This was an action by the owners of a ship, which had been
captured by a French privateer, and put in charge of a prize
master and a part of the privateer's crew, against the owners
of the cargo for a general average contribution caused by
throwing overboard certain anchors, cables, and other stores.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs subject to the
question whether, under the law, they were entitled to recover. The argument made in behalf of the defendants was
that "every person who puts goods on board a ship, tacitly
contracts to intrust their safety to the discretion of the master
of the ship, and to abide by his judgment of the necessity of
sacrificing a part of the ship or cargo for the preservation of
the rest, and, in case of such necessity, to contribute accordingly; but the sacrifice in this case made is not dictated by
the master and mariners of the ship, but by strangers, to
whom the respective owners of ship and cargo have never
delegated the like discretion." Sir .Tames M ansfield held the
objection to be untenablo, and refused to set aside the verdict,
though the mate, who must have been their prisoner, and
hence without authority, appears to have concurred in the
action of the prize crew.
That damage done by pumping in water, or by scuttling
and sinking the ship and extinguishing a fire, is a subject of
general average contribution is now too well settled both in

RALLI v. TROOP.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, JJ.

England and in this country to be longer a question of doubt,
although the practice was formerly the other way. There is
no disagreement upon this point. That there must be a common danger in which ship, cargo, and crew all participate;
that the sacrifice must be necessary, or at least made in the
exercise of a reasonable judgment that it was necessary; and
that it must be voluntary, is also admitted. But whether the
water be pumped in by the crew, or by a fire-engine stationed
on shore, is quite immaterial, as was held in 27elsorm v. Belmont,
5 Duer, 10; S. 0. 21 N. Y. 36; Gregory v. Orrall, 8 Fed.
Rep. 287; Te Roanoke, 46 Fed. Rep. 297; S. C. 53 Fed.
Rep. 270, and 59 Fed. Rep. 161; Stewart v. West India &c.
Steamship Co., L. R. 8 Q. B. 88.
But if the master be engaged in extinguishing a fire by
pumping in water, and the damage thereby done subjects the
property saved to a general average contribution, I fail to see
why he should lose his right to such contribution, if the port
authorities, acting under a local ordinance, interfere and take
possession of the vessel, and do exactly what he was engaged
in doing, but more efficiently and expeditiously. It was for
the interest of all parties that the fire should be extinguished
as quickly as possible, and if the port authorities had more
efficient means for such purposes than the master, and therefore interfered to assist him, it seems to me he should not lose
his right to contribution. His loss was no greater than it
would have been, if the port authorities had not interfered.
The damage to the cargo was evidently much less, so that the
shippers were obviously benefited by such interference. Under
such circumstances it appears highly inequitable that they
should set up a defence which they would not have been able
to assert, if their loss had been greater.
If it be true, as assumed in the opinion of the court, that
the right to a general average contribution arises, not from
the contract of the parties, but from operation of law and
upon principles of natural justice, it seems an anomaly to say
that one who is in possession of tle vessel by act of law is
not in a position to make a sacrifice, out of which a right of
contribution shall arise. The consequences of the rule an-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, JJ.

nounced by the court might, under certain circumstances, be
so inequitable as at once to challenge its soundness. Suppose,
for instance, the master had nearly succeeded in extinguishing
the fire before the port authorities had arrived, and, against
his protest, had assumed charge of the vessel. Under such
circumstances, he would clearly be entitled to contribution
from such of the cargo as he had already saved, but how
would it be possible to distinguish between that and such as
might have been saved after the port authorities took possession? In saying that the sacrifice must have been made by
the act of the master, the law evidently intends not that the
word "master" shall be taken in its technical sense, but that
the act must be that of one in authority, and must be the
result of the judgment of some one competent to judge and
with authority to act, as distinguished from the hasty and
arbitrary or timorous action of the crew or of a passenger,
who have no authority to bind the vessel.
Suppose, for instance, a vessel and cargo be discovered
abandoned at sea and derelict, and be taken possession of by
salvors, who, for the purpose of saving the property, throw
overboard a portion of the cargo. Can it be possible that
the value of the property so jettisoned should not be estimated in the salvage expenses, and be contributed for by the
property thus saved? There can be no question that, under
such circumstances, the salving vessel would be entitled to
remuneration, but the logical .result of the opinion of the court
in this case is that the owner of the property thrown overboard would lose its entire value, because the salvors are not
agents of the owners of the vessel, and are strangers to the
adventure.
In this case there is no finding that the port authorities
took charge of the fire against the will of the master or mate,
but upon his return on board the master found them in
charge. There is no finding that he made objection to this.
The only disagreement between him and the port authorities
seemed to arise from the fact that the master, after having
"removed 552 bales of jute from the barque, desired to remove more; but the port authorities objected and forbade it,-

LUTCHER v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

because of the danger of increasing the fire." But this was
evidently a disagreement as to a minor particular, and there
is an express finding that "the measures taken by the mate
before the port authorities took charge of the ship, and those
subsequently taken by the port authorities, were the best
available to extinguish the fire and to save greater loss upon
the cargo." There seems to have been no objection at the
time to the port authorities moving the ship and putting her
aground, although the master subsequently incorporated an
objection to such action in his protest. In fact, the District
Judge states that "the master did not object to the scuttling," and that the chief difference between them was with
respect to keeping the hatches open longer for the purpose of
removing more of the cargo, to which the officials objected, in
consequence of the increased draft of air serving as fuel to
the flames.
The opinion of the court tends, in every such emergency, to
put the master and local authorities in antagonism, to give
rise to unseemly conflicts between them, and to prevent the
master from availing himself of their superior facilities for
extinguishing fires. It seems to me there is no distinction in
principle between a sacrifice made by a master and one made
by authority of law, provided the common safety of the ship
and cargo be the object of their action.
I am authorized to state that MR. JUSTICE HARLAN concurs
in this dissent.

LUTCHER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 21. Submitted April 5, 1895. - Decided April 8, 1895.

For the reasons stated in the opinion of the court it is held, (1) that this
court has no jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Circuit Court in
this case, and (2) that the writ of error was brought too late.

