OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES
IN CHAMBERS

SPENKELINK v. WAINWRIGHT

ET

AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY OF EXECUTION

No. A-1016. Decided May 22, 1979
An application for stay of execution of a death sentence for murder imposed

by a Florida court is denied. This Court on three earlier occasions has
refused to review determinations by the state courts and by lower federal
courts in habeas corpus proceedings that there was no federal constitutional error in the process by which applicant was sentenced to death.
And it appears unlikely that four Justices of this Court would vote to
grant certiorari either to hear the constitutional claims previously presented by applicant or to review the denial in federal habeas proceedings
of his new claim that the State's failure to accord him adequate notice
of the aggravating circumstances alleged as the basis for seeking the
death penalty denied him rights secured by the Eighth and Fourteenth
Amendments.
MR. JUSTICE REENQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

This application for stay has come to me by reason of the
unavailability of MR. JUSTICE PowELL. On December 20,
1973, following a trial and jury verdict, applicant was sen-

tenced to death pursuant to the Florida statute that we upheld
in Proffitt v. Florida,428 U. S. 242 (1976), for a murder committed in February 1973.

On applicant's appeal, the Supreme

Court of Florida affirmed both the conviction and sentence,
Spenkelink v. State, 313 So. 2d 666 (1975), and this Court
denied certiorari. 428 U. S. 911 (1976). Applicant next
sought executive clemency from the Governor of Florida,
but his request for that relief was denied on September 12,
1977, and at the same time the Governor signed a death warrant setting applicant's execution for 8:30 a. m. on September 19, 1977. The following day, applicant filed a motion
1301

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

442 U. S.

for collateral relief in the Florida trial court that had convicted him; this motion, too, was denied, the Supreme Court of
Florida affirmed its denial, Spenkelink v. State, 350 So. 2d
85 (1977), and we again denied certiorari. 434 U. S. 960
(1977).
One day after he filed his petition for collateral relief in
state court, however, applicant filed a petition for federal
habeas corpus in the United States District Court for the
Middle District of Florida, which transferred the case to the
Northern District of Florida. That court stayed the execution and scheduled an evidentary hearing for September 21,
1977. At that time a hearing was held, which lasted from
the late morning into the evening and produced over 300 pages
of testimony. On September 23, the District Court dismissed
the petition and ordered that the stay of execution previously
issued by it terminate at noon on September 30. But the District Court also granted applicant a certificate of probable
cause to appeal, and the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
then stayed applicant's execution pending its decision of his
appeal.
On August 21, 1978, a panel of the Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit affirmed the judgment of the District Court.
Spenkelink v. Wainwright, 578 F. 2d 582. In an opinion
comprising 39 pages in the Federal Reporter, the Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit dealt at length with all of
applicant's claims, which had previously been rejected by the
United States District Court and by the Supreme Court of
Florida. It affirmed the judgment of the District Court, and
we again denied certiorari on March 26, 1979, with MR. JUSTICE
BRENNAN and MR. JUsTIcE MARSHALL dissenting on the basis
of their views set forth in Gregg v. Georgia,428 U. S. 153, 227,
231 (1976). 440 U. S. 976.
According to the application now before me, the Governor
of Florida again denied executive clemency on Friday, May 18,
1979, and signed a death warrant authorizing the execution of

SPENKELINK v. WAINWRIGHT
1301

Opinion in Chambers

applicant on Wednesday, May 23, 1979, at 7 a. m., e. d. t.
On Monday, May 21, applicant filed a petition for a writ of
habeas corpus in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Florida requesting the court to stay his
execution pending consideration and final determination of
the petition. According to the applicant, the only point he
seeks to preserve in his application to me for a stay is that
under this Court's decision in Presnell v. Georgia, 439 U. S. 14
(1978), "the failure to accord petitioner adequate advance
notice of the aggravating circumstances alleged by the prosecution as the basis for seeking the death penalty" denied applicant rights secured to him by the Eighth and Fourteenth
Amendments to the Constitution of the United States. In
Presnell, supra, this Court held that the "fundamental principles of procedural fairness" enunciated in Cole v. Arkansas,
333 U. S. 196 (1948), "apply with no less force at the penalty
phase of a trial in a capital case than they do in the guiltdetermining phase of any criminal trial." 439 U. S., at 16.
Cole, in turn, had held that "[t]o conform to due process of
law, petitioners were entitled to have the validity of their convictions appraised on consideration of the case as it was tried
and as the issues were determined in the trial court." 333
U. S., at 202.
This claim was submitted to and denied by the District
Court for the Northern District of Florida on Monday, May
21, 1979. The District Court simultaneously entered a second
order refusing certification of the appeal under both local
and statutory rules, and denying a stay of execution pending
appeal. Today, a panel of the Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit has, by a divided vote, denied applicant a certificate
of probable cause, a certificate for leave to appeal in forma
pauperis,and his motion for a stay of execution.*
*In light of the extensive scrutiny applicant's claims have received in the

courts below, I decline to take the extraordinary step of granting a certificate of probable cause authorizing an appeal to the United States Court

of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit from the District Court's judgment.

1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

442 U. S.

Throughout these many hearings, appeals, and applications,
there has been virtually no dispute that substantial evidence
supported the jury's verdict that applicant was guilty of
first-degree murder, or that the Florida state trial judge
had ample basis for following the jury's recommendation that
the death penalty be imposed. The Supreme Court of Florida
in its opinion affirming applicant's conviction stated:
"As more fully set out above the record shows this crime
to be premeditated, especially cruel, atrocious, and heinous and in connection with robbery of the victim to
secure return of money claimed by Appellant. The aggravating circumstances justify imposition of the death
sentence. Both Appellant and his victim were career
criminals and Appellant showed no mitigating factors to
require a more lenient sentence." 313 So. 2d, at 671.
The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in affirming the
denial of federal habeas relief, said:
"On February 4, 1973, petitioner John A. Spenkelink,
a 24-year-old white male and twice convicted felon, who
had escaped from a California correctional camp, murdered his traveling companion, Joseph J. Szymankiewicz,
a white male, in their Tallahassee, Florida motel room.
Spenkelink shot Szymankiewicz, who was asleep in bed,
once in the head just behind the left ear and a second time in the back, which fragmented the spine, ruptured the aorta, and resulted in the victim's death.
[Spenkelink] then recounted a cover story to the motel
proprietor in order to delay discovery of the body and
left." 578 F. 2d, at 586.
When I granted an application for stay of execution as
Circuit Justice in Evans v. Bennett, 440 U. S. 1301 (1979),
I referred to the oft-repeated rule that a Circuit Justice must
act as surrogate for the entire Court when acting on a stay
application. Even though he would deny the application if

SPENKELINK v. WAINWRIGHT
1301

1305

Opinion in Chambers

he were to consider only his own views as to its merits, he is
obligated to consider the views that each Member of the
Court may have as to its merits, and if he believes that four
Members of the Court would vote to grant certiorari to review
the applicant's claims, he is obligated to grant the application,
provided it meets the other requirements for a stay. In
Evans, supra, although I would not have voted to grant certiorari to consider applicant's claims, I was satisfied that there
was a reasonable probability that four other Members of the
Court would have voted differently. I therefore granted the
application pending referral to the next scheduled Conference
of the full Court.
In this case, by contrast, I have consulted all of my colleagues who are available, and am confident that four of them
would not vote to grant certiorari to hear any of the numerous
constitutional claims previously presented by applicant in
his three earlier petitions for certiorari to this Court. It devolves upon me, however, as a single Justice, to answer as
best I can whether four Members of the Court would grant
certiorari to consider applicant's new claim that his death
sentence was imposed in violation of our opinion in Presnell v. Georgia. The easiest way to find out, of course,
would be to have the necessary copies of applicant's papers
circulated to all eight of my colleagues in order to obtain their
firsthand assessment of this contention at the next regularly
scheduled Conference of the Court on Thursday. Even if I
were only marginally convinced that there were four Justices
who might vote to grant certiorari in order to hear this claim
presented, in view of the fact that applicant's life is at stake,
I would probably follow that course. But evaluating applicant's "new" claim as best I can, it does not impart to me
even that degree of conviction. As I understand it, he contends that Presnell, which required that a state appellate court
affirm a capital sentence on the same theory under which it
had been imposed by the trial court, be extended to require

1306

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

442 U. S.

that the defendant receive some sort of formal notice, perhaps
in the form of a specification in the indictment or information,
of each and every one of the statutorily prescribed aggravating circumstances upon which the prosecution intends to rely
for the imposition of the death penalty. I do not believe that
four Members of this Court would find that claim either factually or legally sufficient to persuade them to vote to grant
certiorari in order to review its denial in the federal habeas
proceeding.
Applicant has conceded in his memorandum of law in support of the present federal habeas action that "defense counsel
could properly have been expected to know that the State
might seek a death sentence on the grounds that the offense
was (1) committed by a defendant previously convicted of a
felony involving the use or threat of violence or (2) committed
by a defendant under sentence of imprisonment." Application, Exhibit B, p. 10. But the memorandum goes on to
state that "a homicide caused by a single gun shot wound to
the heart is not self-evidently 'especially heinous, atrocious,
or cruel.' And it was not until the sentencing hearing itself
that petitioner was appraised that the State would seek the
death penalty on this ground." Id., at 11.
Cole v. Arkansas, which Presnell simply extended to the
sentencing phase of a capital trial, was after all decided in
1948, and was not then thought to embody any novel principle
of constitutional law. Applicant concedes that there was adequate notice at the sentencing stage of the hearing for the
State to seek the death penalty on two of the statutorily defined aggravating circumstances, and the fact that it has
required six years for him to discover that he did not have
adequate notice as to the other grounds upon which it was
sought, and was thereby prejudiced, tends to detract from the
substantiality of his contention.
Applicant has had not merely one day in court. He has
had many, many days in court. It has been the conclusion of

SPENKELINK v. WAINWRIGHT
1301

1307

Opinion in Chambers

the Supreme Court of Florida that the death sentence was
imposed in accordance with the requirements of Florida law
as well as those of the United States Constitution, and it has
been the conclusion of the United States District Court for
the Northern District of Florida and the Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit that there was no federal constitutional
error in the process by which applicant was sentenced to death.
Three times this Court has refused to review the determinations of these state and federal courts. I do not believe
that the claim presented in the present application would be
any more successful than the claims presented in the preceding
three petitions for certiorari. The application for stay of
execution of John A. Spenkelink, presently scheduled for
Wednesday, May 23, 1979, at 7 a. m., e. d. t., is accordingly
Denied.

OCTOBER TERM, 1978
Opinion in Chambers

442 U. S.

SPENKELINK v. WAINWRIGHT ET AL.
ON REAPPLICATION FOR STAY OF EXECUTION

No. A-1016. Decided May 23, 1979
A reapplication for stay of execution of a death sentence under a Florida
murder conviction, following the denial of earlier applications, see ante,
p. 1301, is granted until further action by the entire Court.
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL.

John A. Spenkelink, who is scheduled to be put to death
at 7:00 a. m. on May 23, 1979, has applied to me for a stay

of his execution.

MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST

and MR. JUSTICE

have both denied the application, and the pertinent
facts are set forth in MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST'S opinion, ante,
p. 1301. Given the Court of Appeals' divided vote on whether
to grant a certificate of probable cause, the irrevocable nature
of the penalty to be imposed, and the ability of the full Court
to consider this case within 36 hours at our regular Conference,
I believe it appropriate to grant the application for a stay
until further action by the entire Court.
Granted.
STEVENS

