DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

648

Snow at a?. v. BiL et al.

THOMAS A. SNOW AD

.IVER PALMER, MANAGERS OF'THE OCEAN

Tow-BOAT COMPANY, CLAIMANTS AND OWNERS OF. TH]f
TOW-BOAT "STAR,"

AND

OLIVER PALMER,

STEAM
APPELLANTS, V.

CHARLES HILL ET AL., OWNERS OF THE SHIP "OCEAN QUEEN,"
AND GEORGE LAW, MARSHALL 0. ROBERTS, AND BOWES R.
MCILVAINE,'TRUSTEES OF THE UNITED STATES MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY, CLAIMANTS AND OWNERS OF THE STEAMSHIP
"CRESCENT CITY."
Where a tow-boat was descending the Mississippi river with a vessel fastened to
each side, and another at the stern, and a collision ensued between one of the'
vessels thus lashed and an ocean steamer ascending the river, the evidence shows
that the latter was in fault, and must pay for all the damage.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana, sitting in admiralty.
On the night of the 5th November, 1852, a collision occurred
at about midnight, in the Mississippi river, at a point .about
twenty miles below the city of New Orleans, between the
steamship Crescent City and the ship Ocean Queen, then in
tow of the steam tow-boat Star.. The Crescent City was at the
time ascending the river, bound for New Orleans. The towboat Star was descending the river, having in tow, on her
starboard side, the ship Charles and Jane, on her larboard
.ide the ship Ocean Queen, and astern the brig Telegraph.
The ships on either side of the tow-boat were firmly lashed to
the latter, their bows projecting some distance beyond those
of the tow-boat-the brig was about forty fathoms astern. The
effect of the collision was to cause damage to both the colliding
vessels-and to ihe ship Ocean Queen, to such an extent as to
compel her to return to New Orleans, take out her cargo, and
there undergo extensive repairs.
..
The owners of the Ocean Queen libelled both the tow-boat
Star and the steamship Crescent City. The owners of the
Crescent City libelled the Ocean Queen and the tow-boat Star,
to recover the damages they had sustained. The owners of
the tow-boat Star libelled the steamship Crescent City, for the
damageh she sustained in the collision.
The cases were by consent consolidated and tried together.
The cause having been brought to a hearing before' the Hon.
T. H. MaCaleb, judge of the District Court, on the 4th March,
1854, he pronounced a decree declaring that the collision was
attributable to the improper position in the river and the bad
management of the tow-boat Star; and he ordered a reference
to a commissioner, to ascertain and report the amount of damage sustained by the Ocean Queen.

544

SUPREME COURT.
Sfow et al. v. Hil et al.

On the 18th May, 1854, the report of the commissioner was
confirmed, and a decree was made in favor of the owners of
the Ocean Queen against the stipulators of the tow-boat Star
for $19,465.79, with interest from the 10th January, 1853, and
costs.
The libel against the Crescent City was dismissed, with costs.
On the 25th May, 1852, the Ocean Tow-boat Company appealed to the Circuit Court, from the decree in favor of the
owners of the Ocean Queen.
On the 8th June, 1854, the owners of the Ocean Queen appealed to the Circuit Court, from that part of the decree of the
18th May which dismissed the libel against the Crescent City,
with costs.
In November, 1854, these appeals were argued before the
Circuit Court; and on the 18th June, 1855, a decree was made,
affirming that of the court below, in favor of the owners of the
Ocean Queen, against the tow-boat Star, for the aforesaid sum
of $19,465.79, with interest from the 10th January, 1853, and
costs.
It further ordered the United States Mail Steamship Company to pay the costs of the action of the owners of the Ocean
Queen against the Crescent City.
It was referred to a commissioner to ascertain the entire
damage arising from the collision, and to apportion it between
the United States Mail Steamship Company, claimant of the
Crescent City, and the Ocean Tow-boat Company, claimant of
steamboat Star, according to the admiralty rule, where there
has been mutual fault, each company to bear its own costs.
On the 29th of June, 1855, the Ocean Tow-boat Company
appealed to this court from this decree.
The owners of the Ocean Queen appealed to this court from
so much of the decree of the Circuit Court as discharged the
owners of the Crescent City from liability to them.
In November, 1857, the commissioner made his report of
the entire damages occasioned by the collision to the several
vessels, and the parties to the several actions, by their respective proctors, having filed their written consent to the entry of
a decree, confirming the report, on the 21st November, 1857, a
final decree was entered in the said actions in favor of Charles
Hill and others, owners of the Ocean Queen, against Thomas
A. Snow and Oliver Palmer, managers of the Ocean Towboat Compauy, and Oliver Palmer, their surety, the sum of
$19,465.79, with interest at the rate of five per cent. per annum, and costs of suit.
It further decreed that the Ocean Tow-boat Company, upon
the payment of the said last-mentioned sum, should recover

DECEMBER TERM,' 1857.
Snow d at. v. "HZet at.

from the United States Mail Steamship Company, and Arnold
Harris and Frederick-Fisher, their sureties, the sum of $9,732.89,
the one-half of the amount of the damages sustained by the
Ocean Queen, with interest, at the rate of five per cent., and
one-half of the costs of the suit.
There were other points in the decr'ee, 'which need not be
mentioned.
There were then three appeals pending before t1lis court, viz:
CHARES ILLET AL., n(PLEADED WITH THE STEAMSHIP CRESCENT CITY,

CHARLE
HILLadis.}

OGEAm.Tow-BoAT Comi!ANY.
CHARLES HILL ET AL.
V.

THE UNITED STATES i&M

STEAMSHIP COiwMsY.1

adr.}
THE UNITED STATES STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
- The cases were finally narrowed down, to the one which is
at the caption of this report, and which was argued by MIr.
CusWing on behalf of the Ocean Queen, Ir. Cutting on behalf
of the Crescent City, and Mr. Bejarninon behalf of the Ocean
Tow-boat Company, owners of the Star.

,The arguments upon both sides were chiefly drawn from-the
evidence in the case, which'was somewhat contradictory. A
summary of that portion of it upon which the judgment was
based, will be found in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Justice McLEAIT delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in admiralty from the Circuit Court-for
tbe eastern district of Louisiana.
Hill and others, as claimants, in their libel, state that the
Ocean Queen, being duly enrolled, registered, and equip*ed,
left the port of Iew Orleans on a voyagie to Liverpool, England, having a cargo of about 2,780 bales of cotton; that on
the 5th of N{ovember, 1852, about half past nine o'clock, P.
M., under the'tow of the tow-boat Star on the larboard side,
the ship Charles and Jane on the starboard, and a brig in tow
astern, were proceeding down the river Mississippi for the
Balize; that at about' midnight on the same evening, twenty
miles below:New Orleans, the -steamship Crescent City, then
ascending the river, came in collision with the Ocean Queen
on her larboard bow, cutting her to the bends, breaking her
planking, timbers, and knees, and so injured the ship as to.
VOL. XX.-

85

546

SUPREME COURT.
$now et al. v.Hill elal.

disable her frqm the prosecution of her voyage, and compelled
her to return to New Orleans to refit; and that the costs of
repairs and expenses amounted to the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars; and a lien on the Crescent City and the Star, for
the above sum, is jointly and severally claimed.
The answer of the United States Mail Steamship Company,
a body corporate, owner, says, the Crescent City was ascending
the Mississippi river to the port of New Orleans, and was at a
point in the river just below the English Turn, when, at about
midnight, the pilot and crew discovered a tow-boat, which
proved to be the Star, with the Ocean Queen and two other
vessels, a short distance in front, and close to the eastern bank
of the river; that there was not sufficient room to pass between
the tow and the bank; that the tow-boat and her tow were out
of the usual course of vessels descending the river, and that
the Crescent City was in her proper position; that the Ocean
Queen had not a light set in her rigging or elsewhere, visible to
those on board the Crescent City; that the tow-boat failed to ring
her bell or stop her engines and float, in the manner pointed
out by law; that the Crescent City had slowed her engines on
approaching the tow-boat, and receiving no signal that she
was descending the river, put the helm of the Crescent City
to the starboard, so as to pass outside of and clear of the Star
and her tow; that she was heading to the western bank of the
river, and as they approached her the Crescent City stopped
her engines, and then backed, and was backing when the Ocean
Queen and the tow-boat Star ran into the starboard bow of the
Crescent City, striking her about twelve feet from her stern,
and causing great damage.
That the pilot, officers, and crew, of the Crescent City, managed their boat with great care and skill; that the collision
was caused by negligence and want of care of the tow-boat
Star and the Ocean Queen, in not keeping their proper position
on the river, in not ringing their bell, &c.
The answer of the Tow-boat Company to the libel was filed,
denying the allegations it contained, and charging the fault on
the Crescent City.
As the decision of the court must be governed by the evidence, it is not important to refer to the other pleadings in the
case.
David Kelly, a witness, after describing the tow-boat and
the other vessels fastened to her, as stated in the libel, said,
when they started from New Orleans the Ocean Queen had
one of her own men at the helm; afterwards- the Star sent a
man who took charge of it. They proceeded down the river,
as near the middle as possible. In about an hour, one of the

-DECEMBER TEIMS, 1857.
Snow et al. v. Hill el al.

men from the tow-boat Star came on board and set the wheel
again. They continued about the middle of the river until
twelve o'clock at night. At this time the witness was on the
lookout, when he saw the Crescent City ascending the river at
a great distance. The tow was about the middle of the river, a
little nearer the western than the eastern shore. The night was
clear, so that one could see all over the river. Witness stood on
the forecastle, forward, waiting for the Crescent City, supposing that she would keep clear of them, as there was plenty of
room on the larboard side; but she approached so near that
witness hailed her, and the tow-boat stopped her engines and
rang her bell, but to no purpose; the Crescent City did not
alter her course; she came so close that witness could see all
over her forecastle forward, where her lookout should have
been, but he saw no one on the lookout. -He staid in his position until the Crescent City struck the ship Ocean Queen on
her larboard bow. Witness then jumped off the forecastle and
ran aft, but returned in a few minutes, and saw, for the first
time, one or two men on the forecastle of the Crescent City.
She struck the Ocean Queen on her larboard bow, and stove
everything in forwvard; carried away the laiboard cathead entirely, so that the anchor went down the full length of the
chain, and parted all the fastenings of the Ocean Queen to the
tow-boat, carried away the guards of the Star, an[ bent her
smoke-pipe. The tow-boat brought the Ocean Queen back to
the city. The witness was the only person on watch on the
Ocean Queen. There were no lights hung out on the vessel,
but he supposes her lights in the cabin must have been visible
through the windows. Witness knew the river well; took
particular notice, and is confident, when the Crescent City approached the tow, it was about the middle -of the river. The
Star did not alter her course. When he first saw the Crescent
City, she was about half a mile distant; when he first hailed her,
she was about four or five times her length from the tow.
Witness thinks, when the Crescent City struck, she was going
ahead fast. The tow-boat Star stopped her engine, and rang
her bell; her light hung between the smoke-pipe and her forward fires.
John Marston was standing on the deck of the Ocean Queen
when he first saw the Crescent City; she was about five times
her length. off. The night was clear, and he could distinctly
see both shores. The tow-boat was heading down the river,
as near the middle of it as possible. She was running about
seven knots an hour; he thinks the Crescent City was running
some eight or ten knots an hour when she struck the Ocean
Queen. There were two signal-lights on the Star.
.

SUPREME COURT.
Snow et al. v. Hill et al.

Henry Crowell, a witness, was on the deck of the Ocean
Queen; saw the Crescent City half a mile off; as she approached, he hailed her. The tow was in the middle of the
river, rather nearer to the western than the eastern shore; of
this he is confident. Richard Matthews was master of the
Ocean Queen. The night was clear and starlight; could see
both shores. The Ocean Queen was nearer the western than
the eastern shore. Soon after the collision, she drifted to the
western shore.
Henry J. Whitney was master of the tow-boat; he has been
engaged in that business eight or ten years; heard the bell
ring; came immediately on deck; ran aft, and directed the
hawser of the brig to be let go, in order that he might back.
The tug was near the middle of the river, nearest to the western
shore. He is positive as to this fact.
Witness has heard Captains Disney, Chapman, Brown, Laplace, Phillips, and others, say that Captain Foote, the pilot
of the Crescent City, is not considered as a pilot, and especially
among masters of tow-boats. Peter Curran was pilot of the
Star, and on duty when the collision occurred. The Star had
her full complement of men; was nearer to the western than
the eastern shore. On seeing the Crescent City coming, he
rang the bell to stop the engines; then rang the big bell hard,
three or four times. The Crescent City seemed to come towards them, on the larboard side, till she got nearly abreast
the ship's bow; then she hauled, as witness thought, nearly
square across, until she hit the ship between the cathead and
the stern, and hove her over on the guards of the tow-boat,
which were broken. The bow of the Ocean Queen was a little
ahead of the tow-boat. Witness watched the lights of the
Crescent City when she turned her bow westward. At that
time she was about a mile and a half from the tow. She appeared to be heading all the time westward, till she came
abreast of the Ocean ueen, when she seemed to turn suddenly, as if she had her helm hard a-starboard to turn towards the
western shore.
Asa Payson corroborates the above witnesses as to the tow
bein- in the middle of the river, and the direction taken by
the arescent City across the river.
Foote, the pilot of the Crescent City, says he was aseending
the river as near the eastern bank as it was prudent and usual
to run. •He descried the tow-boat, being on the lookout, from
the top of the pilot-house; there was a man onithe watch forward, Mr. Ranshaw, and also one on the deck. When he first
saw the light, it was about a point on his port bow. He told
the man- at the helm there was a tow ahead, and to keep close

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

549

Snow et al. v. Hill etal.

in to the eastern bank, for that was his position. As he approached the tow, an order to slow the engines was given, and
at the same time witness said there was a tow ahead, either
bound up or at anchor. The engines were slowed. The
wheelsman said he could see no opening between the tow and
the shore. Witness then directed him to put his helm to the
starboard, and go outside of the tow. As soon as.witness perceived the tow was descending the river, the engines were ordered to be stopped and backed. This order was obeyed, but it
did not prevent the collision. The Crescent City was not going
with force when the collision occurred. Captain Davenport appeared just after the'collision, when the bows of the boats were
still together. This was, he thinks, about twice the length of
the boat from the eastern bank. He is confident, when he first
saw the tow, it was not in the middle of the river. If he could
have seen between the tow. and the eastern shore, he should
have kept negr the shore; but not seeing an opening, he took
a western direction, which was his proper course.
Several witnesses were examined who were on -board the
Crescent City, all of whom, more or less, corroborated the impression of the pilot, that they were very near the eastern shore,
and that between the tow and that shore there was not room
for the Crescent City to pass.
From what has been stated in the pleadings and testimony,
it will be seen that in 'this, as in other cases of collision,
the theories of the respective partids are in conflict. Both
cannot be true; and if either be so to the extent claimed, the
right and the wrong are established.
The claimants allege that the Ocean Queen in charge of the
steam tow-boat Star, with two other vessels, was descending
the river Mississippi, about twenty miles below New Orleans,
being near the middle of the river, rather nearer to the western
than the eastern bank, was run into by the Crescent' City, and
injured as described.
Some eight or ten witnesses called in behalf of the claimants-some of them experienced pilots, and well acquainted
with the river-being on board the Star tow-boat, or one
of the boats fastened to it, and several of them witnessed
the collision, a part of whose testimony is above stated, and
they all conduce to establish the allegations in the libel. They
show that the tow-boat was in her proper course in the middle
of the river, or rather' nearer to the western than the eastern
shore, and this all the witneses admit was the usual and proper
course. They also show that the Star had lights, and that there
was no want of care in her management. Her course down the
middle of the river was continued, and on the approach of.the

SUPREME COURT.
Snow et al. v. Hill et al.

Crescent City, so as to threaten a collision, the hawser which
fastened the brig to the stern was thrown off, so that the towboat might back; the engines were stopped, and the approaching boat was hailed, the bells rang, and the Star was inclined
still further to the western shore. More than this could not
be done, nor required of the tow-boat with her towage. Being
in her right position, the Star had no reason to apprehend a
collision until the danger became imminent. And when this
was apparent, nothing more could be done by the tow-boat
than was done. It would be a strange rule of navigation to
require a boat descending in the middle of a river, more than
twenty-four hundred feet in width, to keep out of the way of
a vessel ascending the river close to the shore, a thousand feet
from the descending boat, which should change its course to a
direction across the river, out of its proper course, and with
the view of crossing the bow of the descending boat. No
stronger case could be put or imagined, to show fault in the
ascending boat.
The theory of the Crescent City is unreasonable, and is unsustained by the evidence. It was ascending, as alleged, the
eastern shore of the river, as near to it as could safely be navigated, until the light of the tow-boat was discovered, which
was directly ahead, and so close to the shore as not to give
room for the ascending boat to pass between it and the shore.
This is untrue, if the facts be true as to the position of the
tow-boat.
The position of the tow-boat is proved by experienced pilots
and river men, well acquainted with the river for many years,
and whose character for truth has not been questioned. They
say that they could see both shores, and that from their knowledge of the river they cannot be mistaken.
To counteract this proof, there is nothing but the statements
of the pilot of the Crescent City, who is proved to be ignorant
and incompetent, and two or three witnesses on board that
vessel, who .were not shown to have a knowledge of the river.
The-pilot directed the helm to the starboard, with the view of
passing the tow on the western side. And this course was continued until the collision occurred, by striking the larboard bow
of the Ocean Queen. This bow was a little in advance of the Star.
Whilst one or two of the witnesses speak favorably of Foote,
the pilot, the greater number speak of him as ignorant of his
duties, and not fit for a pilot. And in addition to this, it
seems, he was not acquainted with the river. This is shown
to some extent, as he seems to have relied more on the opinion
of the man at the helm, than on his own knowledge and j udgment.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

551

Snow et at. v. Hill et al.

The place of collision, as appears from a survey of the river,
is 2,420 feet Wide; and if the tow was in the -middle of the
river, there were twelve hundred and ten feet between the tow
and the eastern shore, which afforded room for three vessels to
pass abreast, of the capacity of the Crescent City.
The statement of Foote is conclusive against his theory. He
starboarded his helm, to pass the western side of the tow. His
approach was seen by those on board the Star and the other
vessels connected with her, some time, and preparations were
made to avoid the collision. This shows that Foote' was mistaken as to the position of the tow, and this mistake was fatal.
Whether it resulted from his ignorance of the course of the
river, or of his duties as a pilot, or from both, is immaterial.
It shows, that the Crescent City was in fault, as the colliding
vessel..
It is alleged that the Ocean Queen had no lights, and that
on the approach of the Crescent City.the Star did not stop her
engines and float, as the statute of Louisiana requires of the
descending boat. The 'Ocean Queen was passive, following in
the tow of the Star; her lights were not required to be hung
out. The tow-boat Star was responsible for her safe navigation, so far as skill and knowledge of the river were concerned;
but it was not responsible for the wrongs of other boats, which
could not, reasonably, be avoided.
The statute of Louisiana referred to, we think, is not in the
case; from the facts proved, its requirements could have had
no application.
The Ocean Queen was bound to a foreign country; the
Crescent City was carrying on an intercourse between New
Orleans and the Atlantic States. The agency of the tow-boat
did not change the character of the commerce in which the
vessels were engaged. The Ocean Queen was propelled by
steam, and whether the power be located in the tug or in the
ship, can be of little or no importance. It was subject to the
admiralty jurisdiction, and to the rules applied to vessels having the same motive power.
The Circuit Court decreed against the Tow-boat Company
in solido, the sum of $19,465.79 damages, with interest thereon
at the rate of five per cent. per annum from the 10th of January, 1853, till paid, and costs of suit; and that the. Tow-boat
Company, upon the payment of the above sum, shall have and
recover from the Mall Steamship Company, &c., $9,732.89,
the one-half of the sum decreed as above.
In this decree we think there is error. The tow-boat was
not in fault. Her equipments and crew were such as the law
required, and the usage of the service. In nothing did the

SUPREME COURT.
Hlolcombe v. AcKusick et al.

tow-boat fail, which in the least conduced to the disaster. The
Crescent City was wholly in fault, and the decree for the damages suffered by the Ocean Queen should have been against the
colliding boat. The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore
reversed, and the cause is remanded to that court, with directions to enter a decree for the above damage against the Mail
Steamship Company, their sureties, &c., and also the sum of
two hundred and eight dollars and ninety-seven cents for the
damage done to the tow-boat, and also for costs.

WILLIAM HOLCOMBE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JoHN McKusIcK,
JONATHAx E. McKusicK, CHRISTOPHER CARLE, HORACE K.
McKINSTRY, ELIAS McLEAN, AND JOSEPH1 C. YORK.
Where there was a demurrer to some parts of a replication, and a motion to strike
out other parts, still leaving in the replication some essential allegations, a judgment upon the demurrer and motion to strike out was not such a final judgment
as can be reviewed by this court.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Minnesota.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr.Bradley for the plaintiff in error, upon
which side there was also a brief filed by Mr. Brisbin and Mr.
Stevens, and by Mr. Gashing and Mr. Gillet for the defendants.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Minnesota.
The suit in the court below was brought to recover damages
for wrongfully entering the plaintiff's dwelling-house at Stillwater, Minnesota Territory, and doing great injury to the same,
removing it from its foundations, damaging and destroying the
personal property therein, &c.
The defendants, in their answer, set forth an act of the Legislature of the Territory of Minnesota, incorporating the city
of Stillwater, and conferring upon the municipal authorities
the usual powers for the well government of the inhabitants
thereof; the organization of the government of the city under
its charter, and the election of its officers, and, among others,
that one of the defendants, J. E. McKusick, was elected marshal. The answer set forth, also, an ordinance passed by the
city council, in pursuance of authority given by the charter,
which, among other things, provided for the removal of ob-

