486

SUPREME COURT.
Inqraham et al. v. Dawson dt al.

The sixteenth section of each township could not, it is true, be
specifically designated and possessed anterior to a survey of
the public lands; but the right to that sedtion and its appropriation existed in contract or pledge by virtue of the ordinance
and the laws of the United States, and the right of possession
and enjoyment was matured by the execution of the surveys.
It cannot be supposed that this right, so important, was destroyed or impaired by an agreement for temporary occupancy,
made without reference to any survey oi division of the lands,
made, too, without legitimate authority; nor can such right be
affected by any ordinary allowance of pre-emption, because the
pledge of the Government is pre-existing, is express, and therefore paramount.
The State of Michigan was admitted into the Union under
the pledge given her by the general land system of the -United
States; her right to the sixteenth section of each township was
under that pledge fully recognised. It could not therefore,
consistently with good faith, be displaced by an arrangement
irregular in its origin, and temporary in its character, in its
tendencies and operation conflicting with a preceding, general,
and beneficial system of policy. INo effectual adversary rights
could grow out of such an arrangement. Upon the views
herein expressed, I am in favor of an affirmance of the judgment in this cause, not merely on the ground that this cause
is essentially the same with that already decided between these
parties, as reported in the 18th of Howard, p. 173, but also because the opinion of this-court upon the law and the facts of
the last-mentioned cause commands-my entire approbation.

ALFRED INGRAHAM AND GEORGE READ, ASSIGNEES IN TRUST OF
THE GRAND GULF RAILROAD AND BANKING COMPANY, APPELLANTS, V. HENRY S. DAWSON, ADMINISTRATOR OF MOSES
GROVES, DECEASED, JOSIAH STANSBROUGH, AND JOHN R. MARSHALL.
Where there were proceedings in a State court between a bank, one of its creditors,
and one of its debtors, and the bank having failed, assigned its assets to trustees, who intervened in the dispute between the other two parties, the judgment
of the State court against the inter~enors must be considered final, and a bill
fi'ed by them in the Circuit Court of the United States must be dismissed.
If there were irregularities in the proceedings of the State court, it was for that
court to correct them, had complaint been made at the proper time.

THI- was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana.

-DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

487

Ingraham et al. v. Dawson et al.

The facts in the case are fully stated in the opinion of the
Circuit Court, which the reader will find referred to in the
opinion of this court, as constituting a part of the statement
of this report. It is therefore transcribed from the record, and
was as follows:
Opinion of the Circuit Court.
The facts of this case are, that in May, 1841, the Grand Gulf
Railroad and Banking Company, of Grand Gulf, Mississippi,
recovered two judgments against Moses H. Groves, for the
aggregate sum of twenty-two thousand six hundred and thirtyeight and forty-three hundredths dollars, with arrears of interest and costs.
Prior to this event, the bank bad suspended'specie payments,
and in February, 1842, made a general assignment of its effects to the plaintiff, Ingraham, and one Lindsay, (of whom
the plaintiff, Read, is the assignee or successor,) to be collected
and appropriated-ist, to the expenses of the trust; 2d, to pay
off judgment creditors; 3d, to indemnify and save harmless
the sureties or guaranties of any engagement for the bank;
and 4thly, to make an equal distribution among the remaining
creditors.
The trustees accepted their appointment, and in 1842 notified
the curator of the debtor, Groves, (H. H. Groves,) that these
judgments had been assigned to them.
In the month of June, 1843, the defendant, John R. Marshall, a bill holder of the bills of the Grand Gulf Banking
Company, commenced two suits by attachment in the District
Court of the parish of Madison, against that corporati6n; upon
the bills of the bank, and recovered a judgment 'upon the two
suits, (which, during their progress, had been consolidated,) for
the sum of four thousand three hundred and ninety-five dollars, with arrearages of interest and costs.
The sheriff (among other property) attached the two judgmeits against Groves by an entry of the fact upon the attachment, and by notice to H. H. Groves, administrator.
The Grand Gulf Banking Company appeared to the said suit,
and defended it, and Ingraham and Read intervened, claiming
through their assignment the property attached, and "opposing the plaintiff's demand to claim the property attached."
To the interventioA Marshall answered, denying the authority of. the bank to make an assignment, and averring that the
assignments were fraudulent and void, designed to favor a
portion of the creditors, and insisted upon the right of the attaching creditor to dispose of the effects seized, notwithstanding
the assignment.

488

SUPREME COURT.
Ingraham et al. v. Dawzon et al.

A suspensive appeal was taken, immediately after the signature of the judgment, to the Supreme Court of the State, by
the bank and the assignees, (intervenors,) and a judgment of
aflirmance was rendered in that court. This was entered upon
the minutes of the District Court for Madison, in November,
1845. In December thereafter, an execution issued to the
sherif, and, in due course of law, these judgments were sold,
in April, 1846, at public sale, when Marshall, the plaintiff, became the purchaser. iHe transferred his title to his codefendants
by a public act, in February, 1847.
To a full understanding of the facts and arguments, it is
proper to set forth the proceedings in the Circuit Court of
Claiborne county, Mississippi, to enforce a forfeiture of the
charter of the bank. In September, 1845, a judgment of partial forfeiture was entered, reserving the right to sue, and collect debts, with a view to the settlement of the affairs of the
bank; and on the 17th April, 1846, a final judgment in that
court, forfeiting the whole charter, was entered.
This was suspended by appeal, and a Urmed in the Supreme
Court, in 1848, shortly before this suit was commenced.
This suit wascommenced to enforce the rights of the assignees,.
under their assignment, to the judgments rendered against
Groves in 1841. The jurisdiction of chancery is asserted as a
consequence of the destruction of the legal character of the
corporation, and upon the allegations, that the judgment of
Marshall was obtained with a full notice of the title of the assignees, and that the parties whoclaim those judgments have
acted fraudulently and collusively in obtaining a title to them
through the action of the courts of Louisiana.
The jurisdiction of the court was supported by my predecessor in this court in 1850, in determining the demurrer to
the bill.
The case then rests upon the respective titles exhibited in
the bill and answers. There is no support for the allegations
of fraud or collusion in the evidence. The only questions to
be considered are, whether the proceedings upon the attachment of Marshall divest the title of the bank to the judgments
in favor of the defendants, and whether the plaintiffs have confirmed that title by their conduct at the sale.
The bank and the intervenors were parties to the proceedings and judgment of the attaching creditor. They appeared
for their respective interests in the subject of the suit, and
contested the validity of the creditor's claim to his debt and
satisfaction from the property. Whatever judgment was rendered in that suit is conclusive upon them.
The judgment entry recites that a jury was empanelled,

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

489

-11nrahamet al. v. Dawon el qZ.

the evidence closed, the case argued, the junry retired to deliberate upon their verdict, returned into court with their verdict,
which was read, agreed to, and ordered to be recorded. "
The verdict is for the plaintiff, against the defendant, for his
debt and interest. It proceeds to declare that the intervenors
have established no evidence of their claim to the property as
set forth in their petition. Thereupon the court gives judgment, that the plaintiff recover of the defendant his debtfand.
interest, specially setting out the items composing both.
"It is further ordered, that the property, rights,-and credits
attached be sold, according to law, to satisfy the judgment and
cost of suit; and that the plaintiff have a preference and privilege thereon; and that the demand of the intervenors be rejected, with cost of suit."
This, it was said, was "done and signed in open court, this
9th May, 1844, after overruling the motion for a new trial.
E. R. MILLsoN, Judge."

It will hardly be contended that this is not a final'judgment
on the merits, conclusive between the parties. (Keene v. MeDonough, 8 La., 187.) The phrties who are now before this
court; were parties to the record in that suit. The plaintiffs
here, were there, claiming to have a better title to the money,
due upon the judgments of Groves, than Marshall, the attaching creditor, by virtue of their deed of assignment from the
bank., The bank was before the court, affirming the title of
their assignees; Groves was before the court as a stockholder;
Marshall was before the court, claiming his preference. This
preference is declared, the judgments are ordered to be sold,.
and the claim of the plaintiff is dismissed. It is the title of
Marshall and his assigns, under this judgment, that is now impeached, and impeached as inferior to the claim then rejected.
All the conditions required by the code to give force to this
judgment, as a res judicata, appear here, (C. C., 22, 65.) But
the plaintiff insists that this is not the judgment rendered in
the cause. He produces evidence to show that the entry on,
the minutes contains the-words "as in case of nonsuit," after
the words of rejection of the intervenors' claim, and with the
addiiion of those words, there is no resjudicata.
The authorities of the Code of Practice of the decisions of
the Supreme Court are clear, that the minute entry is not a
judgment. The Supreme Court will not entertain an appeal
from a judgment which has not been transferred to the book
of judgments, and signed by the judge; and the courts of original jurisdiction are not authorized to issue an execution upon
such an one.

490

SUPREME COURT.
Ingraham et al. Y. Dawson et al.

The judgment entries on the minutes do not form res judicata. They cannot be looked to to impeach, vary, or in anywise to affect the judgment, signed by the judge, in any collateral proceedings. (The State v. McDonald, 17 La. R., 485;
Ex parte Nichall, 4 Ran., 52; 1 Am., 206; 3 Am., 62.) Considering the records of the District Court of Madison only,
there can be no question tba the only operative judgment is
that I have first described.
The question which arises upon the record of the Supreme
Court is one of more difficulty. In the transcript placed before
that court, upon the appeal of the intervenors and the bank,
the judgments were copied from the minute entry, and the signature of the judge superadded. It appears there, that the claim
of the plaintiff (intervenors) was rejected with costs, "as in case
of nonsuit," and no mention is made of the refusal of a new trial.
In the Supreme Court, the case was disposed of upon its
merits. The court does not notice the objections to the rejection of the evidence of the intervenors, (the deed of assignment,) upon which their title depended, and without which the
title of the assignees must necessarily fail, on their intervention
in the District Court. The Supreme Court takes no notice of
the fact that the assignment was not admitted as evidence upon
the trial in the District Court. It treats the assignment as a
part of the evidence, and allowed the plea of prescription against
the claim of the attaching creditor to impeach it, to be filed in
that court. It is difficult to refer the opinion to the case made
on the record.
It may be, as is suggested at the bar, that the case was submitted with a knowledge of the condition of the judgment in
the District Court, and with a view to a decision on the merits;
or that the Supreme Court regarded the words "as in case of
nonsuit," added to a judgment, when there had been a trial
and vei diet, without s gni]cance; or that the coftrt, finding there
had been a trial, a condemnation of the property attached to
be sold, and the preference and privilege of the creditors declared, supposed them sufficient to modify the import of those
words, and that it understood the judgment to conclude the
parties, at least to the extent of this debt, leaving the rights
unimpaired as to other parties. I should have great difficulty
with the case, were there no other circumstances to affect it.
The general rule in Louisiana is, no matter what form of
action or proceeding, whether by petition, or exception, or in-

tervention, the question may have been presented, if the same
question once judicially decided between the same parties be
again agitated, it is sufficient to create the presumption resulting from the thing adjudged, and forms a complete bar.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

491

Ing'raham et al. v. .Dawson e al.

Plecque v. Perrett, 19 Lou., 828. I agree that "the reasons
for the Judgment" given by the Supreme Court. and spread
upon the record, in accordance with the Code of Practice, (art.
909,) are not to be taken as the judgment. Butwhen the import of the judgment is equivocal or ambiguous, the opinion
is important in determining -the limits of the res judicala.
(Plecque v. Perrett, 19 Lou., 828; 5 Am., 200; 3 Am., 202; 6
Ala. IR., 141.) But, to determine the value of the title of the
respondents, we must not confine our observation to the record
of the Supreme Court.
The Code of Practice prohibits the issuing of an execution
upon judgments from that court; whether the judgments there
be of affirmance or reversal, the execution is devolved upon the
court of original jurisdiction. It directs that the judgments
shall be recorded in the court of original jurisdiction before
they are executed' and the order to record-the judgment must
he moved' for in open- court, by the party desirous of execution,
and after that an order for execution may be obtained from that
court. (Cod. Pr., 615, 617, 618; 619, 623.)
These-acts were performed in this case. The record from
the Supreme Court consisted of the opinion, such as I have'
described it, where the merits of the title through the assignment are carefully examined, and pronounced insufficient to
defeat the attachment, and concluding with the announcement
that "the judgment of the District Court is therefore affirmed
with cost," and thereupon an order for execution was made by
the District Court.'
NWnat was then the condition of the record of the District
Court? The original judgment for the, attaching creditor
against the bank and intervenors, finding a debt, condemning
the property attached to be sold, declaring a preference and
privilege in favor of the creditor, and rejecting the claim of the.
assignees, bearing the signature of the judge, was there, and
from that an appeal had been allowed.
Then, there was an ppinion vindicating that jud-gment, by a
careful examination of the assignment of the banK, and pronouncing its invalidity as against the attaching creditor. Then
came the confirmatory order, which the District Court could
refer to nothing but the judgmen above described, and finally
the order of execution.
There was nothing to indicate a variance between the rans~ript in the Supreme Court and the legal entry of judgment
in the District Court. 'No inquirer could apply the confirmator 'order to othet than this judgment.
Upon this condition of the record, the execution under which
the sale was made was levied, the property appraised and sold.

SUPREME COURT.
Ingraham et al. v. Dawson et al.

The seizure notice to the defendant's attorney and the appraisement were within the legal delays, and the sale, after the
return day of the execution, was permissible. (Dorsey v. Carrolton Bank, 5 Am., 237; Rowley v. Kemp, 2 Am., 361.) The
inquiry remains, what title did the purchaser take by the sale
and conveyance of the sheriff? The purchaser is not bound
to look beyond the decree, when executed by a conveyance, if
the facts necessary to give the court jurisdiction appear on the
face of the proceedings, nor to look further back than the order
of the court. If the jurisdiction was improvidently exercised,
or in a manner not warranted by the evidence before it, it is
iot to be corrected at the expense of the purchaser, who had a
right to rely upon the order of the court as an authority emanating from a competent jurisdiction. (10 Pet. S. C. R., 450,
478.) The defendant, Marshall, was a creditor, pursuing what
he considefed to be his legid right, what the courts had pronounced to be a legal right, to satisfaction for his debt from
judgments standing in the name of his debtor upon the records
of the court where his suit was commenced. By his purchase,
he cancelled his debt against the defendant, and assumed the
burden of paying the costs of the suit. T have no evidence of
fraud or collusion in the sale, or of any inadequacy of price.
But there is evidence that the sale was open and public, and
fairly conducted. :Nearly a year after, he conveyed to other
purchasers. They were required to see the judgment on the
records of the District Court, and there was nothing there, except what inspired confidence inthe title they undertook to
purchase. They saw an absolute and unqualified judgment,
rejecting the claim of the dssignees of the bank, and condemning the effects attached to sale. They saw no entry to annul
or modify that judgment, but, o the contrary, one affirming
it in all its parts, with reasons of its propriety, convincing to
the highest court of the State.
The questions, whether the attachment had been legally levied, or whether the property seized was a subject for the satisfaction of the attaching creditor's demand, were involved in
the issues tried, and the order for an execution of the judgment was given after a review of all the claims of the bank or
its assigns. -Thesubject for sale were judgments on the records
of the court that gave the order, and all persons entitled to
oppose it were before the court. The purchaser was entitled
to make the purchase, with an assurance that his title would
be respected.
INor were the purchasers advised, by any act of the assignees,
that there was peril in the act of purchase, or that the sale was
_a derogation of their rights.

DEOMBER TERM, 1857.

•.

498

Ingrahad et al. w. Damaon et af.

The evidence is satisfactory that the principal assignee was
at-the sale, and before, and at the time' encouraged purchasers
to buy. The assignees were interested in this, for the claim
of the attaching creditors was a charge upon the assets that
might come to their hands, and its payment was a diminution
of the debts they were required to pay.
Three years elapsed from the entry of the unconditional and
unexplained order of affirmance of the judgment of the District Court, upon the records of the District Court, before this
suit was commenced. No effort was made during that time
to harmonize the conflict in the various and discrepant entries
in the courts of original and appellate jurisdiction, by direct
applications to them.
No effort has been made by the assignees to enforce the judgments they claim in the court where they were rendered, and
which has assumed to dispose of them, nor to correct the irregularities of the officers of which they now complain.
The titles which have been granted under the orders of the
court, and the acts of the officers, are impeached in a court of
an independent and separate organization, and in a collateral
proceeding.
The attempt is made, not by an application to the ordinary
jurisdiction *of the court, but to its extraordinary powers,
powers which dd not become active against conscience or pubic convenience, and when there has not been good faith-and
reasonable diligence.
My conclusion' is, that the plaintiffs have not made such a
case as authorizes, the interposition of a court of equity for
their relief.
The record shows a final judgment of the court of original
jurisdiction against their title. That Upon their own appeal
an erroneous transcript of that judgment was- carried to the
Supreme Court, and is to be found there with the rest of the
case. But that this was not carried to the book of records of
the Supreme Court, nor copied into its opinion, nor recited in
its final order, nor do the reasons for the judgment in the Supreme Court depend upon its restricted language of the judgment exhibited in the transcript, nor dbes the decretal order.
of the Supreme Court recite or relate to it.
But the opinion of the court depends upon a judgment, suchas existed on the record of the District Court, and the confirmatory order was addressed to that judgment.
This opinion and this confirmatory order were spread upon
the records of the District Court, and form the basis of the
executory orders and proceedings. Rights have attached under
those proceedings and orders, not only without opposition, but

SUPREME COURT.
Ingraham et al. v. Daw8on et al.

withthe solicitation and consent of the plaintiffs.

This court

does not feel at liberty to disturb them, by an inquiry into the
supposed errors or irregularities which may be found in the
various entries and proceedings of the State tribunals.
Bill dismissed with costs.
J. A. CAMPBELL,
(Signed)
Assoc. Justice-S. C. U. S.
It was argued in this court by fr. Slrawbridge and Mr. Reverdy Johnson for the appellants, and by Mrh. Benjamin for the
appellees.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit, by bill in equity, that was prosecuted in the
eastern district of Louisiana, by Ingraham and Read, as assignees in trust of the Grand Gulf Railroad and Banking Company, against Dawson, administrator of Moses Groves, John
R.Marsfiall, and Josiah Stansbrough. The cause was pending
in the court below for several years, and in its various details
is complicated, but the point presented for our consideration is
a narrow one.
According to the practice in Louisiana, the Circuit Court
delivered a carefully-prepared opinion on the final hearing
there, setting forth the facts and reasons why that court dismissed the bill. The opinion will be found in the preceding
report of this cause. We briefly restate the facts on which
our judgment proceeds:
In May, 1841, the Grand Gulf Bank recovered two judgments azainst Mvoses Groves, in the District Court of the parish of iadison, in the State of Louisiana, amounting in the
aggregate to more than twenty-two thousand dollars. Groves
died without having satisfied those judgments, and the-assignees by this bill seek to enforce payment of the debt from
the estate of Groves, in the hands of his administrator.
The Grand Gulf Banking Company having failed, in Feb.ruary, 1842, assigned its assets in trust to Ingraham and Lindsay, including the two judgments against Groves. Lindsay
afterwards died, and Read is his successor. This is the title
relied on by the complainants. The defence set up depends on
the validity of a sale of said judgments by legal process against

Groves.
Marshall was the owner of a large amount of bank notes put
in circulation by the Grand Gulf Company. In June, 1843,
he instituted a suit against the bank on these notes, by attaching the judgments the bank had recovered against Groves,
(and also judgments against: other persons.) The suit was

DECEMBER TERM,- 1857.

495.

Ingraham et al. v. Dawon et al.

prosecuted in the District Court of the parish of Madison, in
Louisiana. To this proceeding the present complainants, Ingraham and Read, as assignees of the bank, intervened and
set up their title by the assignment of the judgments, for the
purpose of defeating the attachment of Marshall, and of having their claim as rustees established as the better title. Marshall responded to this allegation of the -intervekors, that the
deed of assignment was void: first, because it was contrary to
the express law of Mississippi, prohibiting such assignments;
and secondly, that it was void, because it was made for the
purpose of defrauding a portion of the bank's creditors, and in
order to fayor others. The parties really contesting were Marshall and the intervenors. They went to trial before a jury on
the law and facts. The verdjct-found, first, that the debt was
due to Marshall from the bank; and, secondly, (says the record,) "we of the jury find the intervenors in the case have
established no evidence of their claim to the property, as set
forth in the petition."
The judgment recites that the verdict was in favor of the
plaintif, Marshall, and against the defendants and intervenors;
declares the amount due to the plaintiff; adjudges a preference and privilege upon the property, rights, and credits attached; orders them to be sold, according to law, to satisfy the
plaintiff's judgment. "And it is further orderbd and decreed,
that the demand of the intervenors be rejected with costs."
This judgment was' affirmed in the Supreme Court of Louisiana on appeal, prosecuted on the part of the bank and the
intervenors. The judgment as affirmed was duly entered in
the District Court, which proceeded to execute the same.
The bill seems to have been founded on the supposition that
the intervention was rejected, and the intervenors nonsuited
in the District Court; and' that therefore they were not concluded, and at liberty to pursue their claim on the deed of
assignment made to them by the Grand Gulf Bank.
The assumption that the intervenors were nonsuited in the
State court is founded on a supposed record furnished to the
complainants by the clerk of the District Court, which probably
might bear this construction; but it appears that no such record exists in that court, and that a copy pf a memorandum, kept
in a book to refresh the memory of the cleik from which the
record signed by thb judge was made, is the writing relied on'
The memorandum has no value in this cause. The judgment
above recited defeated the assignment set up by the complainants in their petition of intervention, an~t in terms 'bound the
property attached; nor could a court of the United Skates, in
a suit by bill in equity, call in question the informalities'.f

'496

SUPREME COURT.
Sigerson v. Mathews.

any exist, that may have occurred in executing the judgment
of the State court. It was the duty of that court to correct any
misconduct or mistake on the part of the sheriff in conducting
the sale of the judgments, had complaint been made in time
and proper form.
We concur with the Circuit Court, that the bill must be dismissed, and so order.

JOHN SIGERSON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. EDWARD MATHEWS.
Where the endorser of a promissory note, in conversation with the agent of the
holder, before its maturity, dispensed with a presentation of the note and demand of payment, and promised to pay it, or provide for its payment, at maturity, he could not, when sued, set up as a defence that the note was not presented
foi payment, and demand made therefor when it was due, and that no notice of
its dishonor was given.
If, after the maturity of the note, the endorser promised the agent of the holder to
pay the same, having, at the time of making such promise, knowledge of the
fact that the note had not been presented for payment, and no demand made
therefor, or notice of non-payment, he could not, when sued, set up as a defence
awant of such demand or notice.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Dourt of the United States for the district of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Cushing and MWr. Gillet for the plaintiff
in error, and by Mr. Blair for the defendant.
The points made by the counsel for the plaintiff in error
were the following:
.First. The note in question was not an accommodation note,
made for the defendant.
The evidence shows that there could be no pretence that the
note in question was made for the accommodation of the defendant; but that it was, in fact, a regular business note, taken
by defendant on the sale of real estate, without security. And
that when, at a subsequent day, the property was re-deeded,
and the remainder of the notes given up, the defendant credited
this particular note on another debt (account) due him from
James Sigerson, the maker. When it was given, and when it
was transferred, the defendant must have confidently expected
that it would be paid by the maker. When he took back the
property, and credited the note to the maker, he clearly relied
upon its being paid by the maker,,or he would not have given
him credit for it until he had actually taken it up, or he have
been discharged from it as endorser.

