DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

235

White et al. v. .BurnIde.

SAMUEL A. WmE, WILLIAM M. COOKE, CHAMBERS ETLER,
JoHN H. BADWnq, HENRY J. HUCK, As ADMINISTRATOR OF
HERMAN H. RODGERS, AND IN HIS OWN RIGHT, JOHN P.
O'BRIEN, OLIVER H.

STAPP, AND THOMAS ROOKE, PLAINTIFFS

IN ERROR, v. ALBERT T. BURNLEY.
In the present case, the land granted in Texas was alleged to be within the emyrasario contract of De Leon. After proof that many of the documents upon the
subject were destroyed in the revolution, the court left it to the jury to decide
whether or not the land was thus situated. This ruling was correct.
The fact that the surveyor included more land than was called for, does not avoid
the grant. Whatever the State might do to annul it, third parties have no right
to consider it void.
A grantee having been compelled to leave Texas, there was no eviaence of hid
voluntary and final abandonment of the country. As'there was no evidence.
the jury could not express an opinion upon the subject.
Nor was there any evidence which would justify the court in leaving it to the
jury to decide whether or not this grantee was an alien enemy when he made a
conveyance, he being then a resident of Louisiana. The mere fact of his being
a Spaniard was not sufficient for an inference that he was an enemy of Texas.
The averment in the deed that he was a citizen of Mexico was not sufficient.
Where a deed of land in Texas was executed in Louisiana, and recorded'in a notary's books, a copy of it which had been compared with the original by a witness
who was aciuainted with the handwriting of the notary (being dead) and the
subscribing witness, was properly admitted in evidence. It was also admitted
as a record of another State.
In order that the statute of limitations shall begin to run, the defendant, claiming
under a younger title to land which conflicts in part with an elder title, should
have been in actual possession of the part which was overlapped by the elder
title.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the district of Texas.
It was an action of trespass, to try title brought by Burnley
against the plaintiffs in error, in the District Court of the
United States for the district of Texas, to recover a league of
land, situated in Calhoun county, of that State.
Upon the trial, Burnley traced his title in this manner:

1. A document purporting to be the original testimonio, in
Spanish, of a colonial grant in the colony of Martin De Leon,
made by Fernando De Leon, commissioner, to one Benito
Morales. The date of it was 11th ApI, 1835.
. 2. A deed from Benito Morales to Leonardo Manso, dated
27th May, 1835.
3. Conveyance from Manso to Peter W. Grayson, dated 6th
April, 1886. This deed was executed in the parish of St.
Landry, Iiotiisiana, before Pierre Labiche, a notary of that
place.
4. Conveygince from the ex'ecutors of Grayson to Burnley
and Jones, dated 22d of May, 1844.
The second and fourth of these deeds were given in evidence
without objection. The first and third were 9bjected to.

236

SUPREME COURT.
Wite et al. v. .Burnley.

The objection to the original grant constituted the subject
of the first bill of exceptions. The defendants, by their counsel, objected to its admission, on the ground that the want of
authority in the commissioner of the colony to make the grant,
appears upon the face of the grant itself, viz: that it appears
therein that it includes more than one sitio or league of land,
which was the limit of his authority; and thereupon, the court
expressing a willingness to hear testimony as to law and usage
on this subject, evidence was produced on both sides, when the
court allowed the grant to be read in evidence to the jury. To
this ruling the defendants excepted.
* The plaintiff then proceeded with the deduction of his title,
and read the deed from Morales to Manso, without objection.
The next step in his title was the deed from Manso to Grayson,
which was executed in Louisiana. What was offered in evidence
to be a copy taken from a notary's books, and
began purported
in this way:
"Be it known that this day, before me, Pierre Labiche, notary
public in and for the parish of St. Landry, duly commissioned
and sworn, personally came and appeared Leonardo Manso,
citizen of the Republic of .Mexico, who declared," &c., &c. This
deed was certified in such a manner as to induce the counsel
for the defendants to agree as follows:
"I admit the sufficiency of the certificates to the foregoing
deed as conformably to the act of Congress, March 27th, 1804,
waiving want of notary's seal, &c.; but do not admit that the
deed could be certified under that law.
"GEORGE
"ALLEN

W.

PASCHALL,

S. HALE,
"Attorneys for Reuss S. Bendewald."
There was also offered the deposition of a witness that he
had examined the deed on file, a certified copy of which was
paraphed by him; that he was acquainted with the notary's
handwriting, &c., &q.
To the aNmission of which copy of said deed of conveyance
the defendants by their uounsel objected, on the following
grounds, that is to say-First.Because it was not executed in accordance with the
then existing law of Texas in this, to wit:
1. That it did not appear that it was executed before any
notary or other officer authorized by law to take and authenticate public instruments.
2. That it does not appear that the foreign notary, before
whom it purports to have been passed and executed, made out

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
White et al. v. Burnley.

and delivered to the interested party at the time a testmonio, or
second original, as by the then existing law was required.
Secondly. Because the protocol or first original should be
produced, or satisfactorily accounted for, before said copy,
which is secondary evidence, can be admitted.
Thirdly. Because, if any testimonio or second original was
ever in fact issued, its absence is not accounted for.
Fotrl'dy. Because the. showing that the protocol, or first
original, is in the office of a notary in the parish of St. Landry,
in the State of Louisiana, is not satisfactorily accounting for
the non-production of the original.
_9fthly. Because the notary's office in the State of Louisiana
is not, quoad the original paper, a public office within the meaning of the act of Congress of March 27, 1804, entitled "An
act supplementary to an act entitled 'An act to prescribe the
mode in which the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings, in each State, shall be authenticated, so as to take effect
in every other State.'
Sixthly. Because the notary's office in the State of Louisiana
is not, quoad the original paper, a public office within the true
intent and meaning of the rule of the common law.
Seventhly. Because it is not proven in accordance with the
rule and principle of the common law) in this, to wit:
1. That the witness, Guy H. Bell, does not prove that it is
an examined copy, compared by him with the original.
2. That the witness, Guy H. Bell, does not state his means
of knowledge of the handwriting of the witness, John Simons,
nor that he was acquainted with his handwriting.
3. That the said witness, Guy H. Bell, does not state his
means of knowledge of the handwriting of Pierre Labiche, the
notary; and
4. That all proof relating to the handwriting of the notary,
Pierre Labiche, is irrelevant, inasmuch as he was not an instrumental, assisting, or subscribing witness, to said original paper.
Bihthly. And to the deed itself it was further, objected, that
.~
as by the law
it has neither instrumental
nor assisting witnesses,
.of Texas, in force at the time, was required,
Vinthly. That the deed of conveyance shows upon its face
that it was executed upon the 6th of April, in the year 1836,
by Leonardo Manso, reciting therein that he was a citizen of
the Republic of Mexico, to Peter W. Grayson, reciting therein
that he was a citizen of Texas, late a portion of said Republic
of Mexico; and.the fact being judicially known to the qcurt
that said Republic of Mexico And said Republic of Texas were
I then engaged in an open and public war with each? other, the
i
*&aid deed of conveyance vvaT and idi'herefor void.

SUPREME COURT.
White et al. v.Burnky.

But the court allowed the deed to be read, and this constituted the defendant's second bill of exception.
The plaintiff then, proceeding with his title, proved the will
of Peter W. Grayson, deceased, with the probate thereof, and
the grant of letters testamentary to the executors, who conveyed to Buruley and Jones the undivided three-fourths interest in and to all the lands conveyed by Leonardo Manso to
Grayson. A. deed from Jones to Bfurnley completed the plaintiff's title.
The third bill of exception by the defendant related to the
introduction of certain depositions de bene esse by the plaintiff,
which need not be further noticed.
The plaintiff then rested.
The defendants then offered a vast mass of evidence, which
it is impossible to specify minutely. Their line of defence was
this:
1. That the grant contained within its alleged boundaries
a much greater amount of land than the grant called for, viz:
fifty millions and upwards of square varas, being over two
leagues, instead of one; and that there was not over a laber
of marsh and water on the tract.
2. That the empresario De Leon had no right to grant the
locus in quo, because it was not within the jurisdiction of his
empresa, and because he, De Leon, had never had the consent
of the Federal Executive to his colonizing the coast leagues.
Upon this point, the plaintiff offered rebutting evidence.
3. That White had resided upon his own head right ever
since 1842, had laid off a town there, and the other defendants
held under him.
The defendants offered other matters in defence, which will
be sufficiently explained by the rulings of the court below
upon those points which formed the basis of the decision of
this court. There were twenty-nine prayers made to the court
by the counsel for the plaintiff, all of which were granted;
twenty-four prayers by the counsel for the defendants, which
were refused, and nine instructions given to the jury by the
court, at the instance of the defendants. Instead of inserting
all this voluminous matter, the reporter prefers to take up in
succession the points decided by this court, and to show what
were the rulings of the court below or refusals upon those
points.
The first proposition decided by this court is the following,
viz:
"The land granted was alleged to be within the empresario
contract of DeLeon. After proof that many of the documents

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
White

239

al. v. .Burnhy.

upon the subject were destroyed in the revolution, the court
left it to the jury to decide whether or not the land was thus
situated. This ruling was correct."
Upon this point, the rulings of the court below were as follows:
The court refused the following instructions, asked by the
defendants, viz:
3d. That the official acts of the various authorities of Coahuila and Texas, and of the Vice President of Mexico, show
that the controversy between Power and Hewetson and De
Leon, as empresarios, only related to such conflict as existed betweenthe calls of their respective grants, between the Nueces and
Lavaca rivers, and the documents showing the decisions of the
respective Governments in relation to their controversy being
Alaman's dispatch of. December 23d, 1831, and Letona's dispatch of March i0th 1832, are to be understood in no other
.way than as intending to place De Leon in possession of such
lands as were embraced within his two contracts, (the first of
the date of April 18th, 1824, the other his augmentation contract of April 30th, 1829,) and said dispatches and .the law did
not authorize the political chief of the department of Bexar to
enlarge or extend those grants, or embrace within De Leon's
colony any portion of the coast leagues not properly embraced
within his said contracts; and anyputting DeLeon in possession
beyond this, would have been without authority, and would
not change or enlarge the true boundaries of De Leon's empresa.
4th. That after the national colonization decree of August
18th, 1824, and the State colonization decree of March 24th,
1825, and the instructions to the commissioners of the 4th September, 1827, the State had no right to extend to De Leon the
right to colonize any portion of the coast leagues without the
previous consent of the Federal Executive of Mexico, nor could
the commissioners of colonies give possession to any colonist
settled, or intending to settle, within the ten littoral leagues,
unless the persons interested had presbnted the commissioner
a special order of Government, wherein the approbation of the
National Government to ,such grant had been manifested.
And thereupon, if the jury believe, from the evidence, that De
Leon had not the consent of the Federal Executive to colonize
below the calls of his grant of 1824, as defined by himself in
his letter of February 1st, 1825, and agreed to by the Government of Coahuila and Texas, and as shown by the decree of
said Government through Gonzales on the 6th of October,
1825, do not embrace the lands in controversy, then there was
no-authority in the commissioner to make the grant, unless the

240

SUPREME COURT.
White et al. v. Burnley.

plaintiff has affirmatively proven a special order of the Government, wherein the approbation of the National Government to
make the grant had been manifested; and in the absence of
such proof, the jury will find for the defendant.
5th. That the report of the Government of Coahuila and
Texas transmitted to the President of Mexico, dated October
2d, 1826, in which it is stated that the littoral leagues lying between the Guadalupe and Lavaca rivers were vacant, is prima
facie evidence of the truth, and the contrary can only be established by proving that the lands so comprehended were the
property of individuals, corporations, or towns not subject to
colonization.
6th. That the consent of the Repubhlic of Mexico in favor of
Power and Hewetson's colonizing said littoral leagues between
the Guadalupe and Lavaca rivers, expressed in his dispatch of
the 22d April, 1828, and the contract between Power and
Hewetson, and the Government of Coahuila and Texas on the
11th of June, 1828, gave to Power and Hewetson the legal
and exclusive right to colonize said lands, except so far as they
were already the property of individuals, corporations, or
towns. And if De Leori'a contract of 18th April, 1824, conflicted with any portion of said lands embraced within Power
and Hewetson's contract of April 22d, 1828, the law only gave
him preference to the extent of said conflict, and the political
chief of the Department of Bexar could not divest Power and
Hewetson's right beyond this conflict, nor vest it in De Leon.
And therefore it will be the duty of the jury to ascertain from
the evidence the lower boundary of De Leon's contract or
rant of 1824; and if they find that the land in controversywas
elow said lower line, then there was -no power in the commissioner of De Leon's colony to make the grant, and they
must find for the defendants.
But the court gave the following instructions asked by the
defendants, viz:
1. That if the jury believe, from the evidence, that the
land in controversy was not embraced within the boundaries
of Martin De Leon's colonial contracts of April 18th, 1824, or
of his augmentation contract of April 80th, 1829, then there was
no authority in the commissioner of De Leon's colony to extend the title, and it is null and void.
2. That, in determining the boundaries specified in these
contracts, the jury will examine the calls in said contracts and
documents themselves, and then determine for themselves
whether tle witnesses acquainted with the calls in the grants
proved that the land in controversy was without these boundaries; and if so, then they will find for the defendants.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Whie d al. v. .BurneV.

3. That the evidence of the witnesses as to the acts of the
political chief of Bexar can only be understood as proving
such acts as he could lawfully do; but in so far as it proves
acts beyond the authority transmitted to him, and the law
arising out of the documentary evidence before the jury, such
evidence is to be disregarded.
The court also gave the following instruction asked by the
plaintiff:
7th. That if the jury believe from, the evidence that there
was a controversy between the empresarios Power and Hewetson on one side, and Martin De Leon on the other, each claiming a grant including the land in controversy, and that this
controversy was decided by the Supreme Executive of Mexico
in favor of De Leon, and that decision was carried into efFect
by the authorities of the State of Coahuila and Texas, and
thereby a boundaiy assigned to the colony of De Leon which included the land herein sued for, such settlement of the con-troversy will be received as binding and conclusive, and the
grant claimed by plaintiff cannot be held invalid, either for
want of the approval of the Supreme Executive authority of
Mexico, or as being without the jurisdiction of De Leon's
colony.
The second proposition decided by this court was this:
"The fact that the surveyor included more land than was
called for, does not avoid the grant. Whatever the State
might do to annul it, third parties have no right to consider it
void."
Upon this point, the defendants prayed the court to instruct
the jury as follows:'
1. That the colonization laws of Coahuila and Texas did
not authorize the commissioner of De Leon's colony to extend
to Benito Morales a title for more than one league of land, (a
league being twenty-five millions of square varas;) and the
title being upon its face for fifty millions square varas, it was
from the beginning null and void, and gives no right to recover.
2. That even if there was authority of law to include the
excess of twenty-five millions square varas in the area, and
exclude it from the computation because such excess was covered with salt bays as expressed in the grant, yet if the jury
believed from the evidence that the reasons were false, .and
that there was in fact a great excess of land (over and above
twenty-five millionis square varas) which was not covered with
water or salt bays, the grant was void because of the excess,
and the jury will find for the defendants.
But the court refused to give these instructions, and gave
VOL. XX.

16

SUPREME COURT.
White et al. v. Burnley.

to the jury the following instructions, at the instance of the
plaintiff:
1. That at the date of the grant under which plaintiff
claims, both by the general law and the colonization law, saline bays, extending from the gulf or the large bays, could not
properly be included in a arant to a colonist, such bays, though
embraced in the lines of tlie survey, would properly have been
deducted from the computation of the area of the grant, and
the plaintiff's grant on its face is not invalid on tha.t account.
2. The statement made in the survey contained in plaintiff's
grant, that half of the survey was covered with saline bays, is
primafacie to be taken as true at that time.
8. Any change which may have taken place pince in the
country includea in the lines of the survey, will not affect the
validity of the grant.
4. Although the jury should believe that the grant when
surveyed did not contain an entire league covered by saline
bays, yet if they believe that the statement in the survey was
caused by the mistake or neglect of the surveyor, it will not
vitiate the grant; and in order to render the grant invalid on
this ground, the jury must believe from the evidence that
there was intentional fraud committed by Benito Morales, the
grantee.
The third proposition decided by this court is this:
"A grantee having been compelled to leave Texas, there
was no evidence of his voluntary and final abandonment of
the country. As there was no evidence, the jury could not
express an opinion upon the subject."
Upon this point, the court instructed the jury as follows, at
the request of the plaintiff:
11th. That if the jury believe~from the evidence that Leonardo Manso was a native Spaniard, who emigrated to Mexico
in his youth, and before the revolution by which Mexico was
separated from Spain, and adhered to the cause of Mexican
independence, and became a citizen of the Republic of Mexico,
and then emigrated to and acquired the land in controversy in
De Leon's colony, in order that there should have been an
ipso facto forfeiture of said land, on the ground of abandonment
of the country by said Manso, under the colonization law, it
must be proved, to the satisfaction of the jury, that prior to the.
declaration of independence'of Texas, on the 2d of March, 1836,
the said Manso abandoned and left the country, and became
domiciliated in a foreign country, without the intention of returning to Texas, or any other part of Mexico; and if his leaving the country was intended to be temporary, and with the
design of continuing his allegiance as a Mexican citizen, and

DEOEM3ER TERLM, 1857.

248

ite etal. v.Burnly.

returning either to Texas or some other part of Mexico, it was
no abandonment of the country within the meaning of colonization laws, and did not divest his right to his land.
12th. If the jury believe from the evidence that Manso was
forced to leave the country by the public authorities, on account of his being a Gauchapin, and his doing so was not voluntary, it was no abandonment of the country within the
meaning of the colonization laws, and did not divest his right
to his land.
13th. That the burden of proof is on the defendants, to show
a final and complete abandonment of Mexico, prior to the 2d
of March, 1836, on the part of Manso, in orher that an ipso
facto forfeiture of his land under the colonization laws should
be made out, and the facts on which it is sought to disfranchise
a party, and to divest his title to property, ought to be clearly
and conclusively established.
The fourth proposition decided by this court was this:
"Nor was there any evidence which would justify the court
in leaving it to the jury to decide whether or not this grantee
was an alien enemy when he made a conveyance, he being
then a resident of Louisiana. The mere fact of his being a
Spaniard was not sufficient for an inference that he was an
enemy of Texas. The averment in the deed that he was a
citizen of Mexico was not suicient."
The ruling of the court below upon this point was follows:
The following instructions were asked by the defendants'
counsel:
. 7th. It appearing on the face of the conveyance from Leonardo Manso to Peter W. Grayson, that it was made on the 6th
day of April, A. D. 1886, between the said Manso, a citizen
of the Republic of Mexico, and the said Grayson, a citizen'of
the Republic of Texas, the States of Mexico and Texas being
then engaged in an open and public war with each other, the
said conveyance is absolutely null and void, and passed no
right of property from the grantor to the grantee therein.
8th. That the contract being in relation to land between
citizens of countries then at war with each other, the fact that
;t was made in the United States, a neutral country, does not
take the case out of the rule, but it draws after it all the consequences of the laws of war, and is as void as though it had
been made in Texas or Mexico.
9th. That the sale from Manso to Grayson being, as expressed. in the deed, between citizens of Mexico and Texas,
countries then at war with each other, the contract was contrary to the laws of war goverfiing belligerents, was forbidden
by the organic law of Texas, the criminal law of England

244

SUPREME COURT.
White et al. v. Burnley.

which it had adopted, its public policy, good morals, and the
duty of Grayson as a citizen of Texas, and was therefore void.
11th. That if Manso had. resided in Texas when the revolution commenced, in 1835, he had the right to make his election,
whether he would adhere to his allegiance to Mexico, or adopt
the new State of Texas; and the fact of his election is to be
determined by his subseqiuent acts of declaring in the deed
that he was a citizen of Mexico, and by his soon after returning to Mexico, and residing permanently there.
12th. That Grayson and those claiming under him in privity
of estate, are estopped by the recitals of citizenship in the deed;
and no proof of temporary residence in a neutral country, even
if it had been made, could be allowed to contradict their own
solemn act.
But the court refused to give these instructions, and gave
the two following sets, the
first being asked by the defendants,
and the second by the plaintiffs:
The defendants asked the following, which were granted:
4th. It appearing on the face of the conveyance from Leonardo Manso to Peter W. Grayson, that it was made on the 6th
day of April, A. D. 1836, between the said Manso, a citizen
of the Republic of Mexico, and the said Grayson, a citizen of
the Republic of Texas, the said States of Mexico and Texas
being then engaged in open and public war with each other,
the said deed of conveyance is absolutely null and void,
passed no right of property from the grantor to the grantee
therein, unless the jury should find from the evidence that the
said Leonardo Manso was, at the time of making said conveyance, domiciled in the State of Louisiana, where said conveyance was executed.
5th. That to constitute a domicil requires an union, or joint
operation of act and intention, residence in a particular place
with the design of remaining there permanently, In attaining
a just conclusion on the question of domicil, the chief point
to be considered is the intention to remain in the particular
place or country; if it sufficiently appears from the evidence
that the said intention of removing from' one place to another
was to make a permanent settlement at the latter place, or for
an indefinite time, that is, without looking to a departure from
thence at any future time, when any particular business shall
have been accomplished, the person may then be said to be
domiciled in the country or place where he is residing; unless,
therefore, the jury find from the evidence that Leonardo Manso
was residing in the State of Louisiana on the 6th of April,
1836, with the intention to remain there permanently, or for
an indefinite time, as above explained, he cannot be said to

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
White et al. v. Burnkey.

have been at the time domiciled in Louisiana so as to render
the conveyance made by him on that day to. Peter W. Grayson,
a citizen of Texas, legal and valid.
And the plaintiff asked the following, which were granted:
8th. That if the jury believe from the evidence that Leonardo
Manso was a native Spaniard, who emigrated to Mexico in his
youth, and before the revolution by which Mexico was separated from Spain, and adhered to the cause of Mexican independence, and became a citizen of the Republic of Mexico, and
in the year 1888, or before that time, emigrated to Martin De
Leon's colony in Texas, settled in said colony, was received as
a colonist and domiciliated therein, and thenceforward until the
date of this conveyance remained either in Texas or in Louisiana, without having re-established his domicil in any other part
of Mexico, then the said Leonardo Manso was not, up to the
date of said deed, an alien enemy to Texas, and his deed to
Grayson is not invalid on that ground.
9th. That if Manso's domicil, at the date of his conveyance
to Grayson, was either in Texas or Louisiana, and the jury do
not believe from the evidence that he had taken up arms or
engaged in the contest against Texas, his mere election to consider and calling himself a citizen of Mexico, would not make
him an alien enemy, so as to render his said deed invalid on
that ground.
The ffth proposition decided by this court is the following:
"Where a deed of land in Texas was executed in Louisiana,
and recorded in a notary's books, a copy of it which had been
compared with the original by a witness who was acquainted
with the handwriting of the notary (being dead) and the subscribing witness, was properly admitted in evidence. It was
also admitted as a record of another State."
The ruling of the court below upon this point was as follows:
The plaintiff asked the court to give the following instructions to the jury, which the court gave, viz:
16th. The conveyance from Manso to Grayson, executed in
Louisiana before a notary public in conformity to the law prevailing in civil law countries, does not require further proof
of delivery to the party, as the making the agreement before a
.notary, its reduction to vriting, and making a protocol of such
writing, includes delivery.
17th. If the jury find from the evidence'that the deed from
Manso to Grayson was made in Louisiana before a notary public, and was executed by the parties, and left with him to become a record of his office, further evidence of the delivery of
the said dded is not necessary.
The last proposition decided by this court was the following:

SUPREME COURT.
White et al. v. Burnley.

"In order that the statute of limitations shall begin to run,
the defendant, claiming under a younger title to land which
conflicts in part with an elder title, should have been in actual
possession of the part which was overlapped by the elder title."
Upon this point the court below gave the fbllowing instruction to the jury, at the request of the plaintiff.
18th. Though White, and those claiming under him, may
have had more than three years' adverse possession on his third
of a league claimed in this action, yet if said third of a league
survey conflicted in part only with plailtiff's grant, and there
was not an actual adverse possession within the interference
of the surveys for three years or more before the commencement of this action, the defendants will not be entitled to the
bar of the fifteenth section of the act of limitations.
The verdict and judgment were for the plaintiff, and the
defendants brought the case to this court by writ of error.
It was submitted on printed argument by Mr. Reagan for
the plaintiffs in error, and argued by i11'. Bibb and Ar. Huqhes
for the defendants. There was also upon that side a brief filed
by Mr. Ballinger.
The analysis of the rulings of the court below has occupied
so much room, that the points and arguments of counsel must
be omitted.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
.This suit was brought and tried in the District Court of
Texas, to recover a league of land lying in that State, fronting
in part on Matagorda bay, east of the mouth of the Guadalupe
river, and purporting to be in Martin De Leon's colony or empresa.

1. The first objection made on the trial, was to the introduction of the grant offered in evidence, on the ground that the
land did not lie in the colony, and therefore the officers of the
same wanted jurisdiction, and had no power to grant to Benito
Morales, under whom Burnley claims. If the premises were
true, the conclusion would certainly follow. (McLemore v.
Wright, 2 Yerger's Ten. R.)
It is a historical fact, established as such by the decision of
the Supreme Court *ofTexas, in the case of De Leon v. White,
(9Texas R., 598,) that the ernpresario contract of Martin De
Leon was so amended by order of the General Government of
Mexico as to include the littoral leagues along the coast of the
Mexican gulf, including that portion thereof where the land in
dispute lies.
It is not only established by the history of the country; but

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

247

WAite et al. v. Burney.

here, it was also proved by witnesses,, after proof had been
made to the court, that many of the documents of the mpresa
had been destroyed by the soldiers of the Texas army during
the revolutionary struggle. The court left it4thie jury to determine whether the land lay in the empresa of 'Martin De Leon,
and they so found. In doing this, we think there was no error
committed as against the, defendant.
2. The next question appears on the face of the grant. All
the steps leading to the grant, with one exception, are regular.
The quantity of land that the lines of survey include, is equal
to two leagues, whereas only one league is called for; and the
reason the surveyor gives in his certificate of survey for the
excess is, that he included in the survey a bay of the ocean,
which was not subject'to grant, a quantity equal to a league.
This statement was proved to be untrue-almost entirely.
The grant contains two leagues and more of fast land; and for
this reason it wa§ insisted at the trial that it was fraudulent
and void. But the court charged the jury to the contrary,
with several qualifications. These we deem to have been useless; as our opinion is, that a regular grant (that is, a corEpleted title, made by those exercising the proper political power
to grant lands) is not open to this objection, by an opposing
claimant setting up a younger title; and we understand, that
on this principle the well-c6nsidered cases of Hancock v.
McKinney, (7 Texas,) and of Swift v. Herrera, (9 :Texas,) proceed. Such is the settled doctrine elsewhere. (Overton v.
Campbell, 5 Hayw. Ten. ZR.)
How far the Government of Texas might interefere by "due
course of law," (that is, by a suit in its name and behalf,) is a
question for that Government t6 decide. Owen v. Rains's
Lessee (5 Haywood's Ten. R., 106) is to the efi~t that it can
only be done by suit.
To hold that this grant was void, because the surveyor returned an excess ii his survey, without any evidence that the
orantee participated in the matter, as is the case here, would
e an alarming doctrine through a'wide-spread portion of the
United States. No instance is recollected where the State has
interfered by suit to reform a land patent for excess of quahtity. The consideration of more or less of excess, to constitute
a primafacie case of fraud, would give a latitude of discretion
to the judicial department over the executive and granting
power, inconsistent wvith the independence of the latter in this
liranch of administration. Under the Spanish and Mexican
Governments, the judiciary had no authority to interfere at all
in any case. The political department retained to itself all the
power to reform or to annul titles.

248

SUPREME COURT.
White et al. v. Burnley.

But where the executive authority intervenes, and calls on
the courts of justice to aid "in the due course of law," no collision between the two departments can occur.
That a case of excess sufficiently gross could arise to justify
a proceeding by suit on the part of the State of Texas, to reform a Spanish grant, we do not doubt. (United States v.
Hughes, 11 How., 552.) But the question here is not of reform; it is of original nullity.
What was the condition of Morales's title? He applied for
a league of land as a colonist; his petition was granted, and a
survey ordered. The surveyor made return of his survey to the
commissioner, who in effect exercised the granting power in
De Leon's colony. The lines of thc survey call for other adjoining tracts, and their corners previously made. On the
faith of this survey, the commissioner proceeded to extend the
title to Morales. It is probable that no actual survey was
made on the ground; and hence it happened that the surveyor's certificate stated that more than one-half of the boundary shown on the plat was covered by water, and not subject
to grant. Of this matter, the surveyor and the commissioner,
as the judge of land distribution, had jurisdiction; it was their
duty to act justly between the Government and the grantee.
The commissioner acted by extending the title of possession,
and thus yested a full title in Morales. No one at that time
had any right to complain, if the Government was content; it
has so far acquiesced, and younger grantees are bound by that
acquiescence.
There is not the slightest evidence that Mforales had any
knowledge that the statement made by the surveyor in his certificate of survey was untrue; and therefbre the grant as to
him is not void, and could only be voidable in part, if it could
be reformed at all.
3. Morales conveyed to Manso, who was a citizen of Texas,
residing in De Leon's colony when resistance to the Central
Government of M1exico was first agitated by the inhabitants of
Texas.
All Spaniards were ordered to leave the country bythe party
which eventually proved successful; and Manso, being a Spaniard, left and went to Louisiana; and it is insisted that this
forced removal was an abandonment of the country, and a forfeiture of his land, according to the colonization laws of Coahuila and Texas. Manso took no part in the revolutionary
movement, quietly left, and resided in Louisiana from the fall
of 1834 up to the time'when he conveyed to Grayson, in April,
1836. Such was the only proof of his acts, so far as they affect
this controversy.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

•249

-'White et al. v. Burney.

The evidence did not warrant any charge from the court
on the ground.of abandonment of the country by Manso. The
case of Hardy v. De Leon (5 Texas R.) is conclusive on this
ground of defence. To hold otherwise, would violate the entire doctrine laid down in the case of McMullin v. Hodge, (5
Texas R.)
There must be some evidence on which a charge to the jury
is founded, otherwise it cannot be lawfully given. As there
was no evidence from which an abandonment could be found
by the jury, an instruction on the subject could only mislead.
(Chirac et al. v. Reinecka, 2 Pet., 625.)
In the next place, we are of the opinion that there was no
evidence introduced on the trial below which could have warranted the court to give any instruction to the jury destructive
of Grayson's title, on the supposition that Manso was an alien
enemy at the time of conveying, and therefore had no capacity
to convey.
When one nation is at war with another nation, all the subjects or citizens of the one are deemed in hostility to the subjects or citizens of the other; they are personally at war with
each other, and have no capacity to contract. Here Manso
was a citizen of Coahuila and Texas, when .he was forced to
leave his country, and continued away, subject to the same
coercion, until after independence was declared by Texas,
March 2d, 1836. The Constitution of Texas was adopted
March 17th, 1836; by the tenth section of which it is provided,
that "all persons (Africans, &c., excepted) who were residing
in Texas on the day qf the declaration of independence shall
be considered citizens of the Republic, and entitled to all the
privileges of such." Manso conveyed to Grayson in April,
afterwards. There was a suspicion (he being a Spaniard) that
he sympathized with the federal authorities of Mexico, and
might take sides with the enemies of Texas; but this record
affords no proof that he did so, up to the time when he conveyed to Grayson; nor is there any proof showing that he had
abandoned his domicil in Texas, which he was forced to leave
some sixteen months before independence was declared; nor
is it of any consequence, whether he did, or did not, become
domiciled in Louisiana, if he was not an alien enemy to the
Republic of Texas, and to her citizen Grayon, the grantee;
as an alien friend can convey his lands situate in a foreign
Government; and: that the title is defeasible, is nothing to the
purpose in this case.
It is again insisted that Manso, after her conveyed to Grayson, removed to Mexico, and that this must be taken as evidence that he was an alien enemy when independence was

250

SUPREME COURT.
White et al. v. Burney.

declared. The Texas courts hold that forcing a party to leave
the country should not operate to his prejudice. (Hardy v.
De Leon, 5 Tex. R.) And.this court held, in the case of Mcilvane v. 4Coxc's lessee, (4 Cra., 216,) that a citizen of iNew Jersey did not forfeit his citizenship by joining the British army
during our revolutionary war, and that his heirs took by descent, although their ancestor continued to reside abroad. Nor
did the expression in the deed that Manso was a citizen of
Mexico establish alienage, as the State might claim his citizenship, notwithstanding.

To this effect is Coxe's case; and Wvhich

is followed by the doctrine maintained in Ingle v. The Trustees
of the Sailors' Snug Harbor. (3 Peters R.)
4. The conveyance from Manso to Grayson is dated April
6, 1836, and was executed before a notary public in Louisiana.
It embraced seventeen leagues in all, including the one in dispute. It was a civil-law conveyance, made in a notary's book,
and a copy furnished to the grantee, as a second original. This
copy was offered in evidence. In December, 1836, the Legislature of Texas enacted, that "the common law of England,
as now practiced and understood, shall, in its application
to juries and evidence, be followed and practiced by the courts
of this Republic." The conveyance had two attesting witnesses
to it, besides the signature of the notary. To let in the copy,
it was proved by a witness that he had examined the original
on file on the notary's book; that the copy was a true one;
that the notary before whom the conveyance was executed was
dead; that the witness knew his handwriting, which was genuine; that he, the witness, was well acquainted with the handwriting of John Simonds, one of the subscribing witnesses to
the act of- sale, who was also dead, and that the signature of
Simonds was genuine.
The original of the conveyance from Manso to Grayson remained in the archives of the notary in Louisiana, and consequently could not be produced, and the copy was of necessity
offered. This is according, to the case of Watrous v. McGrew,
(16 Tex. R., 512.) We are of opinion that the paper offered
was sufficiently proved to be admitted on common-law principles.
The copy from the notary's books was also duly authenticated, according to the act of Congress of 1804, as a record of
another State. The Supreme Court of Texas held, in the case
of Watrous v. McGrew, that as the sixth article of the Constitution of Texas of November, 1835, creating a provisional
Government, had recognised the civil code and code of practice of Louisiana; and as the ordinance of January 22, 1836,
(Hart. Dig., 321,) had adopted, "in matters of probate the laws
and principles in similar cases in the State of Louisiana," the

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

251

White et al. v. .Burnisy.

courts of Texas must recognise the Louisiana laws, and the
proceedings under them, in cases of c6nveyances executed by
notarial act in Louisiana; and on this ground the copy of the
conveyance then before the court was admitted in evidence,
being in ill its features a copy of a record like the present.
5. The remaining question is, whether 'the defendants are
protected by the act of limitations of three years? They
pleaded, specially, that they, and those under whom they claim,
have been in adverse possession. of the premises sued for under
color of title for three years next before the commencement
of this suit; and that the plaintiff's cause of action accrued more
than three years next before the commencement of said suit.
The fifteenth section of the act of 1841 (Hart. Dig., 729)
declares that every suit to recover real estate as against any
one in possession under title, or color of title, shall be instituted within three years next after the cause of action shall have
accrued, and not afterwards.
The defendants had both title and color of title, as required
by the act; and they, or some of them, had .been in actual pos:
session of their lands, more than three years before this suit
was commenced.
The younger title, owned and occupied by the defendants,
lapped over one side of the grant to Morales, and to this interference the dispute extends. But no one of the defendants had
-been in actual possession of the disputed part for three years
when the suit was brought.
The act of 1841, section 15, requires suit to be instituted
within three years "next after the cause of action shall have
accrued." And we think it too plain for reasoning or authority to make it plainer, that, until the land of the plaintiff was
trespassed upon, this action of trespass, to try title, could not
be maintained. Such are the decisions of the elder States on
statutes havinog corresponding provisions. (Trimble v. Smith,
4 Bibb Ky.; logue v. McKee, 8 Mfar. Ky.; Talbot v. McGarock, 1 Yer. Ten. R., 262.)
We have endeavored carefully to follow the doctrines of the
Supreme Court of Texas in this opinion, because we are bound
to follow the settled adjudications of that State in cases affect"ing titles to lands there.
On the effect of excess of quantity in a grant, and on the three
years' act of limitations, we had no direct guide, and therefore
have expressed our independent views on these questions.
For the reasons here stated, it is ordered that the judgment
of the District Court be affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.

