208

SUPREME COURT.
Chaffee v. Hayward and Day v. Hayward.

out the manner in which it shall be brought before us, we have
no power to dispense with the provisions of the law, nor to
change or modify them.
Upon this ground, the case isnot legally before us, and must
be dismissed for wiant of jurisdiction.

EDWIN M. CHAFFEE, TRUSTEE OF HORACE

H. DAY, PLAINTIFF IN
H. DAY, PLAIN-

HORACE
ERROR, V. NATHANIEL HAYWARD.
TIFF IN ERROR, V. -NATHANIEL HAYWARD.

By the judiciary act of 1789, no civil suit shall be brought against an inhabitant
of the United States by an original process in any other district than that
whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the time of serving
the writ.
This provisioni of law is not changed by any subsequent process act, or by the law
giving jurisdiction to Circuit Courts in patent cases, without regard to citizenship.
Therefore, where a suit was commenced for an infringement of a patent right, and
process was served by attaching the property of an absent defendant, this was
not sufficient to give the court jurisdiction.
The defect of an irregular citation (being signed by the clerk of the court, and not
by the judge who allowed the writ of error) is cured by an appearance in this
court; so that a motion to dismiss the writ, when made at the term succeeding
that at which the appearance was entered, comes too late.
THESE

cases were brought up, by writ of error, from the Cir-

cuit Court of the United States for the district of Rhode Island.
At an early day of the term, Mr. Pitman, counsel for the defendant in error, moved to dismiss the writs of error upon the
ground stated below, and filed the following affidavit in support of the motion:
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES, NO. 5L; DEC. TERM, 1857.

.Edwin .1 Chaffee, Trustee of Horace f. Dal, Plaintiffin Error,
v. Nathaniel Hayward.
The defendant in error in this cause moves that this cause
be dismissed, the citation herein having been signed by the
clerk of the Circuit Court, and not by the judge, as required
JosE'llh S. PITMAN.
by law. By his attorney,
I, Joseph S. Pitman, of the city and county of Providence,
and State of Rhode Island, &c., attorney at law, on oath say,

that I am and have been associated with Charles S. Bradley,
Esq., in the defence of the above cause; that he is the junior
counsel in said cause; that he left the city of Providence for
Europe on the first or second day of December, 1856; that we

DEO MBER TERM, 1857.

209

Chaffee v. Bayward and Day v. Rayward.

had no consultation respecting the management of said cause
before his departure, Mr. Bradley expecting to return by the
first of March, 1857; that after his departure I caused an appearance to be entered in said cause, and did not file a motion
for the dismissal of said cause at the last term, because I did
not wish to decide on the expediency of that motion without
consultation with him; that I expected he would return in
season for such consultation, either before the court adjourned,
or that I should have opportunity to make that motion after
consultation with him at an adjourned term of this court, which
I supposed would be held as at the December term, 1856; that
to my surprise this court adjourned about the seventh day of
March, and the opportunity was lost, as Mr. Bradley did not
return to this country until the twenty-fourth of March, 1857.
JOSEPH S. PITMAN.
RHODE ISLAND DISTRICT, 8.

Clerk's Office, Circuit Court of the United States.
On this nineteenth day of December, A. D. 1857, came the
above-named Joseph S. Pitman, and made oath that the foregoing statements are true. Before me.
[SEAL.] Witness my hand and official seal, at Providence.
HENRY PITMAN,

Clerk Circuit Court U. S., -R. L Dist.
Upon which motion Mr. Chief Justice TA-NEY delivered
the opinion of the court.
In this case, a judgment in favor of the defendant in error
was rendered in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
district of Rhode Island, at its June term, 1856. The plaintiff
sned out a writ of error on the 27th of October, 1856, returnable to the December term of this court then next following;
but the. citation to the defendant was signed by the clerk of
the court, and not by the judge who allowed the writ of error.
In pursuance of this writ of error, the record was filed here
and the case docketed on the 24th of November, 1856; and on
the 4th of December the defendant appeared by counsel in
this court.
A motion has been made at the present term to dismiss the
because the citation is signed by the clerk and not by the
case,
jude.
IT citation is, undoubtedly irregular in this respect, and
the defendant in error was not bound to appear under it. And
if a motion had been made at the last term, within, Areasonable time, to dismiss the case upon this ground, it would Jiwe
VOL. XX.

14

SUPREME COURT.

210

Chaffee v. Hayward and Day v. Hayward.

been dismissed. But the appearance of the party in this court,
without making a motion to dismiss during the first term, is
a waiver of any irregularity in the citation, and is an admission that he has received notice to appear to the writ of error.
This point was decided in the cases of McDonogh v. Millaudon, 3 How., 693; United States v. Yulee, 6 How., 605; and
Buckingham et al. v. McLean et al., 13 How., 150. And these
cases have been recognised and affirmed in the case of Carroll
et al. v. Dorsey et al., decided at the present term.
Indeed, any other rule would be unjust to a plaintiff in error,
and is not required for the protection of the defendant. The
latter is not bound to appear, unless he is legally cited, except
for the pui:pose of moving to dismiss. lie knows, or must be
presumed to know, whether the notice Which the law requires
has been served on him or not. And if the objection is made
at the first term, the plaintiff, by a new writ and proper citation, might bring up the case to the succeeding term. But if
the defendant does not, by motion at the first term, apprise
him of the irregularity of his proceeding in this respect, and
of his intention to take advantage of it, the plaintiff is put off
his guard by the defendant's appearance; and if the motion is
permitted at the second term, he will be delayed an entire
year in the prosecution of his suit, whenever it is the interest
of a defendant in error to delay and harass his adversary.
An affidavit has been filed by one of the counsel for the defendant in error, stating that he is the junior counsel in the
case, and that he did not make the motion at the last term,
because the senior counsel was absent in Europe, and the
deponent did not wish to decide on the expediency of the molion to dismiss without consulting him; that he expected him
to return before the term ended, but the court adjourned sooner
than he anticipated, and the senior counsel did not return until
the court had finally adjourned to the next term.
The facts stated in this affidavit cannot influence the decision of the motion. The absence of one or of all the counsel
employed by one party, in pursuit of other business, furnishes
no ground for delaying a case in this court, without the consent of the adverse party.
The motion comes too late, and is therefore overruled.
DAY
v.

No. 52.

HAYWAIRD. I

The motion to dismiss in this case stands on the same ground
with that of Chaffee, trustee of Day, v. Hayward, just disposed of; and must, for the reasons assigned in that case, be
also overruled.

DECEMBER TERM,-1857.
Chaffee v. Hayward and DJay v. Hayward.

When the case came up for argument, it was submitted on
printed argument by Mr. Jenckes for the plaintiff in error, and
argued orally by Mr. Bradley and Mr. Pitman for the defendant.
Mr. Jenc7es made the following points:
-PointE The Circuit Court for the district of Rhode Island,
having jurisdiction of the subject-matter, may issue its process
in the same form, and the process itself may be served in the
same manner, as process issuing from the Supreme Court of
that State for any cause of action within its common-law jurisdiction.. (Process Act of May 8th, 1792, sec. 2, Stat. at L.,
1276.)
If the service was good by the laws of that State as they
were at the date of the passage of the process act, then it is
good under the laws of the United States.
1. The form of the writs in these cases and the modes of
proceedings to bring- the defendant before the court, were
strictly in accordance with the law of Rhode Island. (Public
Laws of Rhode Island, Digest of 1844, pp. 110, 113, 115.)
The statute law of Rhode Island regulating attachments on
original writ was the.same in 1789 as in" 1855. (See Digest of
1767, p. 12; Digest of 1798, p. 201.) In all the statutes authorizing attachments of personal'property, the same provision is
found which is contained in the Digest of 1844, p. 118, sec. 3:
"W9hen any attachment is made in manner aforegaid, the sam
shall be sufficient to bring the cause to trial." Neither in the
case of attachment of personal property, nor of real estate, (p.
115, sec. 11,).is there any provision made for personal service on
the defendant. 'In the case of personal estate, a copy of the
writ must be left at the defendant's usual place of abode, (p.
113, sec. 8,) and, in the case of real estate, with the person in possession of the land, and with the clerk of the town where the
land lies, (p. 115, sec. 11.) Such service (see. 3, p.-11 3 ) is expressly declared sufficient to bring the cause to trial. In case of
real estate, the execution runs against the property attached,
(see. 11, p. 115.)
2. The 'above-cited statutes of Rhode Island show that the
service of the process in a case in the Supreme Court of that
State, made in the same manner as in this case, would have
been sufficient to compel the attendance of the defendant,
for the purpbse of giving that court jurisdiction of the cause,
and to form the basis of. a judgment by default in case of his
* non-appearance.Point I The eleventh sectibn of the judiciary act of 1789
does not prohibit the taking of jurisdiction. over this 'cause.

212

SUPREME COURT.
Chaffee v. Hayward and Day v. Hayward.

The provisions of that section apply to the cases of jurisdiction founded on the citizenship of the parties. There is no
reference in that section to. suits at common law in which the
Circuit Courts have jurisdiction over the parties by reason of
their exclusive jurisdiction over the subject-matter. Most of
the cases decided under that statute were cases where the jurisdiction depended solely on the citizenship of the parties, and
were within the letter of the prohibition. (Picquet v. Swan, 5
Mason, 561; Richmond v. Dreyfous, 1 Sumner, 131; Toland
v. Sprague, 12 Peters, 300.)
The case of Day v. The :Newark India Rubber Manufacturing Company, 1 Blatchford, 628, was rightly decided, inasmuch
as the mode of proceeding adopted In the commencement
of that suit had not been adopted by the Circuit Court in
New York; and it is submitted that it was not necessary to
construe the eleventh section of the judiciary act as extending
to a class of cases not referred to in that statute, and in which
the jurisdiction does not depend on citizenship.
It is submitted that the Circuit Court inRhode Island takes
jurisdiction of cases under the patent laws, in the same manner that the Supreme Court of that State takes jurisdiction of
any transitory action, and may use the same process to compel the appearance of the defendant, that could have been
used by the State court at the date of the passage of the process. act.

An objection to this view, taken by Mr. Justice Story in
Picquet v. Swan, is, that the process act was not intended to
enlarge the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts as defined by the
judiciary act. This objection is not tenable in a patent cause,
because the jurisdiction of the court is enlarged. by the patent
laws, and the process acts are to be applied for the purpose of
carryino into effect the jurisdiction so conferred, as well as that
foundea on citizenship.
Point III. This is a case of attachment of specific property,
real and personal, which, by the Rhode Island statute at the
date of the process act, is made a sufficient service to bring the
cause to trial, and therein differs fiom all the cases decided
under the eleventh section of the judiciary act, which were
cases of foreign attachment. In Picquet v. Swan there was an
attempt to attach the real estate of the defendant, but this attempted service was declared, by Judge Story, "defective and
nugatory." -The statute of Rhode bsland in effect declares
that a defendant is to be found in that State for the purposes
of the jurisdiction of its courts, by his visible personal and real
property, which can be seized and levied on by the sheriff.
The decisions of the courts of the United States, in cases where

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

218

Chaffee v. Hayward and Day v. Hayward.

the jurisdiction rests exclusively on citizenship, declare that a
defendant is not found in a district where one of his debtors
resides. There is no conflict in maintaining both propositions.
If specific property cannot be attached when the owner resides out of the district, then an assignee under the bankrupt
laws would be deprived of his remedy against a debtor of the
bankrupt, in the Circuit Court of the district where his property
might be found, although that court has jurisdiction of the
subject-matter of the suit.
So, also, it would be impossib]e to commence a suit at law
against an American residing abroad, for infringing a patent
for a product by sales in this country, although he mighthave
here warehouses full of goods.
Point ITT. If the dictum in Toland v. Sprague, "that even
in case of a person being-amenable to process inpersonam, an
attachment against his property cannot be issued against him,
except as a part of or together with process to be served upon
his person," is to be established as a rule for the service of
process from the courts of the United States in all cases, then
it is not possible to obtain security for a debt by attachment
on original process from the Circuit Court in the district of
Rhode Island.
An attachment cannot be made on original writ, if the debtor
be within the marshal's precinct. He can attach goods and
chattels only when he "cannot find the body of the defendant
wvithin his precinct," (Dig. of 1844, p. 113, see. 3;) and real
estate can be attached only when "the defendant's body or personal estate cannot be found within the State," (p. 115, sec. 11;
Dig. of 1857, pp. 438, 439, sees. 4, 5, 15.) No provision is
made in either case for personal service on the defendant... A.
copy of the writ is to be left at his last and usual place of
abode,
if he has any in the State, and, if not, notice is to be
given by
advertisement. But the form of the writ is such that
if personal service can be made, no attachment can be made,
and, when an attachment is made, no personal service is required or expected.
Many judgments have been rendered in the Circuit Court of
Rhode Island, in suits commenced by attachment against citizens of Rhode Island who have been absent, in the belief that
the process of that court was to be served like the process of the
State courts, and with like effect. Property has been sold,*
and titles to real estate have passed, upon sales made on executions issued on judgments obtained by default. A decision
against the validity of such attachments would not .only unsettle the titles to property thus acquired, but would deprive
suitors in the Circuit Court of the United States for that dis-

214

SUPREME COURT.
Chaffee v. Hayward and Day v. Hayward.

trict of the most valuable portion of their remedial process
against their debtors.
The counsel for the defendant in error referred to the following authorities:
No civil suit can be brought in a Circuit Court against the
defendant in any district whereof he is not an inhabitant, or is
not found at the- date of the alleged service of the writ. (Judiciary act of 1789, sec. 11, Stat. at Large, vol. 1, p.,79; HolIingsworth v. Adams, 2 Dallas, 396; Pollard v. Dwight, 4 Cranch,
424; Picquet v. Swan, 5 Mason, 85, 48, 50; Richmond v. Dreyfous, 1 Sumner, 181, 132; Harrison et al. v. Rowan et ux., 1
Pet. C. C. R., 489; Toland v. Sprague, 12 Pet., 300, 828, 330;
Com. and R. R. Bank of Vicksburg v. Slocumb et al., 14 Pet.,
60; Levy v. Fitzpatrick, 15 Pet., 171; Louisville R. R. Co. v.
Letson, 2 How., 556, 557; Herndon v. Ridgway, 17 How., 424;
Sadlier v. Fallon, 2 Curtis, 579, 581.)
The law has been equally well settled in relation to service
of process in patent suits. (Horace H. Day v. The Newark
India Rubber Manufacturing Co., 1 Blatch., 629; Saddler et
al. v. Hudson et al., 2 Curtis, 6.)
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The question of law decided below, and which we are called
on to revise, arises on the following facts: On the twenty-second day of October, 1855, the plaintiff in error sued out a writ
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Rhode Island
district, against Nathaniel Hayward, styling him as "of Colchester, in the State of Connecticut, commorant of Providence,
in the State of Rhode Island," for the recovery of damages
alleged to have been sustained by the plaintiff in error, by
reason of an alleged infringement of a patent right claimed by
said plaintiff.
On the same day, the marshal of the Rhode .Island district
made return on the writ, that "for want of the body of the
within defendant to be by me found within my district, I have
attached," &c., (enumerating certain real estate lying in the city
of Providence, in the State of Rhode Island,) and a still further
return of having made further service of the writ, by attaching
all the personal estate of the defendant in the India rubber factory of Hartshorn & Co., and in the store or warehouse iNo. 7,
Dorrance street stores, &c., and "have left true and attested
copies of this writ, with my doings thereon, with the city clerk
of the city of Providence, and with John Sweet and William
E. Himes, they being in possession of the premises, the defendant hiving no known place of abode within my district."
At the November term of the court, a declaration was filed,

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

215

Chaffee v. Hayward and Day v. Hayward.

containing the allegations of citizenship of the plaintiff and defendant, and that the defendant was commorant of Providence,
as in the writ; and at the same term the defendant, in his owh
proper person, pleaded to the jurisdiction of the court, that he
was at the time of the pretended service of the writ, and is, an
inhabitant of the district of Connecticut, and not an inhabitant
of the district of Rhode Island, nor was he at the time of the
pretended service of the writ within the district of Rhode Island; "praying the judgment of the court, whether it can or will
take cognizance of the action against him.
To this plea the plaintif, by his, attorney, filed a general
demurrer, on which the cause was heard, and at the June term
the court overruled the demurrer and dismissed the case for
want of jurisdiction; upon which, the plaintiff sued out a writ
of error.
By the eleventh section of the judiciary act of 1789, it is provided, "That no civil suit in a Circuit or District Court. shall
be brought against an inhabitant of the United States by any
original process in any other district than that whereof he is
an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the time of serving the writ."
It has been several times held by this court as the truei con-.
struction of the foregoing section, that jurisdiction of the person of a defendant, (whois an inhabitant of another State,) can
only be obtained, in a civil action, by service of process on his
person, within the district where the suit is instituted; and
that no jurisdiction can be acquired by attaching property of a
non-resident .defendant, pursuant to a State attachment law.
The doctrine announced to this effect, in the case of Toland v.
Sprague, in 1888, (12 Peters, 327,) has been uniformly followed
since, both by this court and at the circuits. (15 Pet., 171; 17
How., 424.)
It is insisted, however, for the plaintiff, that these rulings
were had in cases arising where the jurisdiction depended on
citizenship; whereas, here the suit is founded on an act of Congress conferring jurisdiction on the Circuit Courts of the United
ktates in suits by inventors against those who infringe their
letters patent, including all cases, both at law and in equity,
arising under the patent laws, without regard to citizenship of
the parties or the amount in controversy, and therefore the
eleventh section of the judiciary act does 'not apply, but the
process acts of the State where the suit is brought must govern;
and that the act of Congress of May 8th,. 1792, so declares.
The second section of that 4ct provides, that the forms and
modes of proceeding in suits at common law shall be the same
as are now used in the Federal courts, respectively, pursuant

SUPREME COURT.
Day v. Union India Rubber Company.

to the act of 1789, ch. 21, known as the process act of that
year.
This act (sec. 2) declares, that until further provision shall
be made, and except where by this act "or other statutes of the
United States is otherwise provided," the forms of writs and executions, and modes of process in suits at common law, shall be
the same in each State, respectively, as are now used or allowed
in the Supreme Court of the same. This was to be the mode
of process, unless provision had been made by Congress; and,
to the extent that Congress had provided, the State laws should
not operate.
Now, the only statute of the United States then existing, regulating practice, was the judiciary act of 1789, (ch. 20,) which
is above recited. The eleventh section is excepted out of and
stands unaffected by the subsequent process acts, and is as
applicable in this case as it was to those where jurisdiction depended on citizenship. It applies in its terms to all civil suits;
it makes no exception, nor can the courts of justice make
any.
The judicial power extends to all cases in law and equity
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States,
and it is pursuant to this clause of the Constitution that the
United States courts are vested with power to execute the
laws respecting inventors and patented inventions; but where
suits are to be brought is left to the general law: to wit, to the
eleventh section of the judiciary act, which requires personal
service of process, within the district where the suit is brought,
if the defendant be an inhabitant of another State.
This case, and that of Day against Hayward, depend on the
same grounds of jurisdiction, and were both correctly decided
in the Circuit Court; and the judgment in each is affirmed.

HORACE

H.

DAY,

V. THE UNION INDIA RUBBER
COMPANY.

APPELLANT,

The party defendants in the present suit have as much right to manufacture various articles of India rubber under Chaffee's patent, as the licensees in the case
of Hartshorn v. Day, 19 How.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York.
The case is stated in the opinion of. the court.
It was argued by Mr.ClarenceA. Seward and Mr.Jenckes for

