DECEMBER. TERM, 1857.
Vniwe States V. Fon8at.

THE UmEV STTES, APP.LLANTS, v. CHiALES FossAi.
Where a petitioner files a claim tQ land in California before'the board of copmmissioners created by Congress, the intervention of rival claimants is a practice not
to be encouraged.
Where there is no natural boundary or descriptive call for the termination of lines
of a tract of land, and the quantity of land callbd for in the grant is " one league
of the larger size, a little more or less," the survey must only include a league.
The words "a little more or less" must be rejected.
The grant is for one league of land, to be taken within the southern, western, and
eastern boundaries designated therein, and to be located at the election of the
grantee or his assigns, under the restrictions established for the location and.
survey of private land claims in California by the Executive department of
this Government.
[MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE TANEY, BEING INDISPOSED, DID NOT SIT IN THIS CASE-]

Tuis was an appeal froni the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
Fossat claimed an interest of three-fo'arths in the tract of
land granted to Justo Larios by Governor Alvarado, on the 1st
of August, 1842. The, mesne conveyance need not be stated,
as the only dispute in this court related'to the location of the
land.
In rune, '1842, Larios presented a petition .to the Governor,
stating that he had previously preseted'one in 1836, and another in 1840, both of-which were lost. He stated that he had
purchased a house upon the premises, and resided there since
1836. Whereupon, the following grant was issued:
Juan B. Alvarado, 0onstitutional Governor of the Californias:
Whereas the citizen Justo Larios has asked, for his own
benefit and that of his family, the land known by the name of
the Capitancillos, bounded by the sierra, by the Arroyo Seco,
on the side of the establishment of Santa Clara, and by .the
rancho of citizen Jos6 R. Berreyesa, which has for boundary a
line running from the junction of the Arroyo Seco and Arroyo
de los Alamitos, southward to the sierra, passing by the eastern
base of the small hill situated in the centre of the caniada, the
necessary
having been taken and inquiries made, according to thesteps
laws and regulations on this subject,- by virtue of
the powers conferred upon me, in the name of the Mexican
nation I have granted him the said land, declaring it his property by these presents, subject to the approval of the Departmental Assembly and to the following conditions:
1st. He may enclose it without injury to the passes, roads,
and servitudes; he -may.enjoy it freely and exclusively, using

414

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Fo8sat.

or cultivating it as may best suit him, and within one year he
shall build a house, and it shall be inhabited.
2d. He shall solicit the proper judge to give him juridical
possession, in virtue of this decree, by whom the boundaries
shall be marked out, and he shall put on the boundaries, in
addition to the landmarks, some fruit trees or useful forest
trees.
3d. The land herein referred to is one league of the larger
size, a little more or less, as is explained by t~ie map accompanying the espediente. The judge who shall give the possession
shall have it measured, in conformity to law, leaving the surplus which remains to the nation, for the purposes which may
best suit it.
4th. If he should violate these conditions, he shall lose his
right, and liable to be denounced by another.
Wherefore I order that this title, being held firm and valid,
shall be registered in the book of adjudications of vacant lands,
and delivered to the person interested, for his protection and
other purposes.
Given in Monterey, tfie 1st of August, 1842.
,The reporter will endeavor to give the reader an idea of
the locality without a map, which it would be difficult to make.
Let him imagine himself standing upon a range of hills or
sierra about three thousand feet above tide. Looking to the
north, he sees another range of hills about half as high as the one
upon which he stands, and running nearly parallel therewith.
The two ranges are connected together by a spur, running from
one to the other, and from either side of this spur springs flow,
which, running down ravines to his right and left, find their
way around the lesser hills in front. Upon his left hand, the
spectator may be supposed to trace the Arroyo Seco, which is
Larios's boundary on that side; and upon his right he may see
the marked line which had been mutually agreed upon by
Larios and his neighbor Berreyesa as the separating line between them, and which constituted Larios's boundary upon that
side. Thus standing at one end of a narrow parallelogram, the
spectator may see the two lines upon his right and left.1ooking
indefinitely into the distance for the closing line.
In this state of things, two questions arise:
1st. Which is the sierra where the tract of land begins? Is
it the range of hills upon which we have supposed the spectator
to stand, or the lesser range in front, called "Lomas Bajas."
2d. How far does tne tract run in the direction where no
boundary is given? Does it run as-far as the dividing line is
laid down between Larios and Berreyesa, or does it stop- where

DECEMBER TERM, 1857..

415

Uited States v. Fosaat.

the quantity of land called for in the grant is obtained? The
board of commissioners adopted the former rule, and therefore
continued the tract up to the Arroyo Seco, which was the ter-mination of the'boundary line between Larios and Berreyesa.
It may not be easy for the reader to apprehend precisely the
different decisions hereafter referred to, because the points of
the compass did not exactly correspond with thos6 heretofore
mentioned in the general view which a spectator is supposed
to take fiom the top of the sierra.
The decree of the c6mfnissioners was as follows:
Dbecree.
CHARLEs FoSSAT v. THE UNITED STATES.

In this case, on hearing the proofs and allegations, it is
adjudged by the commission that the claim of the said petitioner is valid, and it is therefore decreed that the same be confirmed.
The land of which confirmation is hereby made is a portion
of the place known by the name of Los Capitancillos, situated
in Santa Clara county, and the same which was formerly occupied by Justo Larios, and the portion thereof hereby confirmed
to the petitioner is bounded and described as follows, to wit:
On the south, bounded by the sierra; on the north, by the
Arroyo Seco; on the west, by the middle of the ridge of the
low hills running north and south, (which hills lie at the westera end of said rancho los Capitancillos,) and the said division
line being the same line of division adopted in a partition of
said rancho, made by William Wigins, and John B. Weller,
and James M. Jones, as will appear by their deeds of partition

recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds for Santa Clara
county, in liber "C" of deeds, page 458; and on the east, by
the place knovn as the rancho of the citizen Jose R. Berreyesa,
which has for loundary a line running from the junction*of
the Arroyo Seco and Arroyo de los Alamitos, southward- t6
the sierra, passing by the eastern base of the small hill situated
in the caffada.
The said.premises containing three-fourths of a square league
of land, a little more or less; reference to be had to the grant
of said rancho to said Justo Larios, and to the map which constitutes a part of the espediente, which are on the file in this
case.

ALPHEUS FELCH,
-THO1PSON
CAMPBELL,
-

-

-

R.

AUG. THOMPsoN,

Commissioners.
Filed in office, February 28, 1854.
-

(Signed),

GEo. FISHER, Secretary.

416

SUPREME OOURT.
United Statea v. .Fosat.

The United States appealed from this decision to the District
Court of the United States for the northern district of California.
In that court there were a number of depositions and plats
filed.
In August, 1857, that court passed the following decree, by
which it will be seen that the tract of land was ordered to begin
at the higher range of hills, and to run as far as the boundary
line reached which had been adopted by Larios and Berreyesa:
Transcriptfrom -Board of Commissioners, No. 340.
THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. CHARLES FOSSAT, APPELLEE.

STATED TERM, JUNE, 1857.
On appeal from the final decision of the board of commissioners to ascertain and settle private land claims in the State
of California.
-Decree.
This cause came on to be heard at a stated term of the court,
on appeal from the final decision of the board of commissioners to ascertain and settle the private land claims in the State
of California, under the act of Congress approved on the 3d of
March, A. D. 1851, upon the transcript of the proceedings and
decision of the said board of commissioners; the papers and
evidence on which the said decision was founded, the petition
of the appellants and answer of the appellee, and tho further
evidence given in this court, by leave of the court, and it appearing to the court that the said transcript has been duly filed
according to law, and the appellee in open court confessing
error in the said decision of the board of land commissioners,
in this, that it does not describe in a manner sufficiently definite the boundaries of the tract of land intended to be confirmed to the claimant; and consenting that the said decision
be reversed, and such decree be entered in this court as may
be lawful and proper upon the whole evidence; and counsel
for the respective parties having been heard, it is by the court
hereby ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the said decision
of the board of land commissioners be, and the same is hereby,
reversed.
And the court now proceeding to render a new decree in the
premises, it is further hereby ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
that the ~rant made to Justo Larios, from whom the appellee,
Charles I ossat, derives his title, is a good and valid grant to
said Larios of the place known by the name of Los Capitancillos, situated in the present county of Santa Clara, and formerly occupied by the said Justo Larios, and bounded and
described as follows, _to wit: On the south by the main sierra,

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

417

United Stats-v. FoRsat.

on a spur of which sierra is, situated, as shown in evidence, a
certain well-known and conspicuous live-oak tree, or encino,
and a portion of which sierra is separated, as shown in evidence,
by the stream called the Arroyo de los Capitancillos, from the
range of.hills called Cuchilla de la Mina, or Cuchilla de ]a
Mina de Luis Ohabolla, in which are situited the quicksilver
mines known as the Guadalupe, San Antonio, aud ewAlmaden mines; on the west by the Arroyo Seco, -on the side of the
establishment of Santa Clara, the said Arroyo Seco being the
continuation of the same stream above designated as the Arroyo de los Capitaucillos; on the east by a line running from
the junction of a certain other rivulet called Arroyo Seco, and
the Arroyo de los Alamitos, southward to the aforesaid main
sierra, passing by the point or part of the, small hill-situated in
the centre of the canada which is designated, in the espedientes
and grants of Justo Larios and Jose -Reyes Berreyesa, as La
Falda de la Loma, and crossing the range of hills designated
above as the Cuchilla de la Mina, or Cuchilla de !a Mina de
Luis Chabolla, and in which are situated the said Guadalupe,'
San Antonio, and New. Almaden mines, and which is the same
range of hills designated Lomas Bajas on the diselo, or map,
in tle aforesaid espediente of Jose Reyes Berreyesa, the said
eastern line herein described being intended to be the same
line agreed upon as the line of division between the lands of
Justo Larios and Jos6 Reyes Berreyesa, as expressed in the
respective espedientes and grants of said Justo Larios and Jos6
Reyes Berreyesa, and delineated by the dotted line on the said
diseno, or map, in the espediente of Joa6 Reyes Berreyesa; in
the location of said line, reference to be made to the description thereof in the said espedientes and grants, and the delineation thereof on the said diseno, or map, in the espedi6nte of
Jos6 Reyes Berreyesa; which espedientes, grants, and disefio,
or.map, are on file and in evidence in this case; and the northern boundary of said tract of land granted to Justo Larios .being the same which is shown in the dise-io, or map, contained
in the espediente of Justo Larios, which is on file and in eviddnce in this case, the said tract of land containing one
sa
n s'quare
league, more or less.
And it is likewise further ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
by the court, that the'claim of the appellee to a portion of the
said described tract of land is a good and valid claimi and that
the said claim be, and the same is hereby, confimed.
* The land of which confirmation is hereby made to the ap"peliee is the whole of the tract of land described above, and
which was granted to Justo Larios, with the exception of the
two adjacent parcels thereof lying at the westerly end of said
VOL. xx.

27

418

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Fossat.

tract, and claimed by the Guadalupe Mining Company, and
which were conveyed to the said Guadalupe Mining Company
by the two instruments of writing which are on file and in evidence in this case, and marked, respectively, "Exhibit M" and
"Exhibit P;" the line dividing the land intended to be confirmed hereby to the said Charles Fossat, from the land of the
said Guadalupe Mining Company, being the same which is expressed in said exhibits to be the eastern line of the tracts thereby
severally conveyed, and the same which is more particularly
designated as the eastern line of the lands of the Guadalupe
Mining Company by the survey made by John La Croze, whose
deposition, with the field notes of said survey attached, is on
file and in evidence in this case, and delineated on the map of
said survey, certified by John C. Hayes, U. S. Surveyor General, which is also on file and in 'evidence, marked "Exhibit I
M," attached to the deposition of John La Croze, to which
exhibits, map, deposition of John La Croze, and field notes,
reference is made for a more fall description of the said line,
which is the western line of the land hereby confirmed to the
OGDEN HOFFMAX,
said appellee, "Charles Fossat.
U. S. Dist. Judge.
August 17, 1857.
The United States appealed from this decree to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Gilleti and Hr. Reverdy Johnson for the
United States, with whom were the Attorney General and Mr.
Rockwell, and by Mr. Badger azd M2fr. Bayard for the appellee,
with whom were Hr. Carlisle and Mr.Stanton.
It is not possible to do more than merely state the points
assumed by the counsel. The arguments from geographical
considerations and those founded on authorities must necessarily be omitted.
It has already been mentioned that the two questions which
arose in the case were1st. Whether more land could be given than the quantity
called for in the grant.
2d. Where was the sierra at which the location was to begin?
Upon the first branch, the counsel for the United States made
the following points:
I. The decree of the District Court confirming this claim to
the entire amount included in the boundaries of the tract, without regard to the quantity, is erroneous.
II.By the law in force in Mexico when this grant was made,
and for a long time prior to that time, a grant like the one in

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

419

United States v. .Fosat.

question was regarded as a grant of a certain quantity of land
within the bdundaries named, to be ascertained by measurement and separated from the residue of the tract, which residue
or surplus continued to be the property of the nation.
III. This clause requiring the survey, and that the surplus
shall remain to the nation, is embraced in most of the California grants, and has received an almost uniform construction by
all the tribunals which have been called upon to adjudicate
upon these claims. The decision of the commissioners has been
uniform, that a grant like the present was only a grant "ofa
quantity of laud to be ascertained by measurement, and not a
grant by metes and bounds. The same has been the decision
of the Circuit Court, and in most eases by the District Court,
and these decisions of the commissioners and District Court
have been sustained by the Supreme Court of the United States
in the cases which have been to that court, although the question was not expressly raised in these cases, nor does it appear
that the counsel or court doubted it.
IV. In this very case of Fossat, the commidsioners in their
opinion regard the grant in this case as one of quantity, and
only for one league.
V. Such we claim is the rule according to the law governing
the case, yet these views are, we think, strengthened by the
principles which prevail at common law in relation to public
grants generally, and especially as to the construction of a grant
like the one in question.
VI. It is true, as a general rule at common law, that inconveyances between individuals, monuments and definite boundaries are to control in preference to quantity, where the difference of quantity named in a deed does not greatly vary from
the amount included within the boundaries, especially when
the words "more or less," or "be the same more or less," are
used; but this rule does not prevail where the boundaries are
not definite, or where the excess or deficiency is large. NTor
would the rule apply where the grant was from the Government, nor in a case like the present, where the words are, "a
little more or less."
VIL The rule in relation to the survey of confirmed claims
under the statute, and the practice adopted by the executive
department of the Government, show that the decree of the
District Court is erroneous. (9 Stat. at L., 633.)
On the second branch of the subject, the counsel contended
that this grant was void for uncertainty, and could not be loeated. They also contended that the location should not commence at the highest range of hills, which we have seen was
on the extreme south.

420

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Fowsat.

The southern boundary. The grant calls for the sierra. In
the disefio, the only ranges of hills or mountains shown are the
Lomas Bajas on the north, and a range on the south, designated as Sierra del Encifio.
It is in proof, and not denied, that between these two ranges
is a valley called the Cafiada de los Capitancillbs, in which was
the house of Justo Larios, and that the eastern and western
boundaries being defined, this part of the cafiada contained
about one square league.
There is no evidence whatever of any possession or occupation by Justo Larios of any land beyond these limits.
This embraced the whole of the cafiada between the eastern
and western boundaries of this rancho.
The western portion of the same cafiada was the rancho of
Berrevesa, which was by a grant of a similar kind, with a
descri'ption by metes and bounds in the body of the grant, but
limited to one league, and which he himself described as a
rant of "one league only." We claim on behalf of the United
tates that this canada was alone granted-that it is bounded
on the south by the highland, and only highland in that direction, represented on the disefio; that either as the sierra mentioned in the grant, or the Sierra del Encifio as named in the
disefio, it was clearly designed as the southern boundary of
the tract.
The claimants contend that there is at a point much further
south a live oak, an encifio, at a considerable elevation, which
is more properly called Sierra del Encifio; and that the hills
or mountains lying north of it, and on which are the New
Almaden mines, are included in the grant. We will examine
this question of boundary in reference to the language of the
grant alone. 2. In connection with the disefio or map of Justo
arios. And 3. In view of any evidence connected with the
claim of Berreyesa.
I [The counsel then went into a minute examination of these
several points.]
The counsel for the appellee had to establish the three following points:
I. That the land of Larios had to begin at the range of high
hills, (where we placed the spectator in the beginning of this
report,) instead of the lesser range of hills.
II. That it had to run as far as the boundary line which had
been established between Larios and Berreyesa.
III. That by the insertion of the words "a little more or less"
in the grant, it was intended that the grantee should not be
confined to a league.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

421

United Sttea v. Fossat.

1. At the time when Larios obtained his grant, he presented
a map or disefio upon which were depicted, in a very rough
-way, the boundaries of the land lie was soliciting. Upon this
map there was a representation of hills, marked Sierra del
Encino, or Sierra of the Live Oak, and upon the plat introduced
upon the argument there was marked the'locality of a large
oak tree, which some of the witnesses said could be seen for
many miles off.
2. Upon this point the remarks of the counsel were as follows:
A corresponding grant to Berreyesa had been made on the
20th of August.
he boundaries of this grant are as follows:
"A part of the place called Cafiada-de los Capitancillos,
bounded on the north by the Low Hills (Lomerias Bajas) in the
vicinity of the plain of the town of Sai Jose; on the south
.bythe mountain, (sierra;) on the east by the'Laurel-tree Hills,
(Lomerias del Laurel;) and on the vest by the rancho of the
citizen Juato Larios, which has for a boundary the angle which
the Arroyo Seco (Dry Creek) forms with that 6f the Aklhmetos'
(Little Poplar's) direction; southward the eastern base of the
low hill. situated in the centre of the valley, (cafiada,) until,
reaching the sierra."
On comparing these grants, it appears that the sierra is called
for as the boundary of both-the Pueblo Hills form the northern boundary of both. The division line between them is
described in both grants as beginning at the same point, the.
junction of the Arroyo'Seco with the Alametos, and extending
southward until reaching the sierra, passing the eastern slope
of the lometa or small hill in the centre of the caniada. The*
rancho of one is called for in the other's grant as its abuttal.
The division line extending from the junction of the Alametos
with the Arroyo Seco, until reaching the sierra, is in Berreyesa's
grant declared to be the boundary of Larios's rancho, while in
Laros's grant the same line is designated as the boundary of
Berreyesa's rancho.
Both ranchos had exactly the same boundary on the south, the
southern boundary of both being the same sierra, named in the
disefio of one Sierra Azul, and by the other, Sierra del Enci-no.
8. As to the quantity of land which was conveyed by the
grant, there is room only to insert the two first points, which
were as follows:
In the District Court, the counsel for the lNew Almaden Company sought to limit the quantity to the exact measure of one
square league, and no more. By the official survey, the quantity within the boundaries confirmed by the court is one league
and a fraction of about three-fourths of a league.

422

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Fosat.'

The point made by the New Almaden Company rests upon
the following condition annexed to the grant:
"2. The land herein referred to is one league of the larger
size, a little more or less, as is explained by the map accompanying the espediente. The judge who shall give the possession shall have it measured, in conformity to law, leaving the
surplus which remains to the nation, for the purposes which
may best suit it."
To this point it is answered:
1. The direction to the judge to "lhave it measured in conformity to law, leaving the surplus which remains to the
nation," is a formal direction, accompanying most, if not all,
California grants, and does not in this case limit or define any
precise quantity. This direction is annexed to grants, whether
there be or be not any surplus, and it does not import that any
surplus will remain.
The surplus to be left to the nation is what remains after
"it," viz: "the land herein referred to" shall be measured.
But the "land referred to" is one league of the larger size, a
little more or less, as-is explained by the map accompanying
the espediente. No exact quantity is expressed in the condition, but reference is made to the espediente as explaining
what has .been granted and is to be measured. The condition
therefore expresses an indeterminate quantity, to be made certain by measurement according to the boundaries defined in
the grant itself, in connection with which the condition is to
be interpreted, and by the map to which reference is made.
The words "a little more or less" following the words "one
league of the larger size," repel the idea that exactly one league
and no more was intended; for if that exact quantity was
meant, the words "a little more or less" would not have been
added.
In every California case decided by the Supreme Court, it
has been held that the subsequent conditions could not defeat
the precedent grant. And although a limitation of quantity
clearly expressed may restrict prior terms of larger import, yet,
in the absence of clear expression, such restriction is not to be
imposed. It is a fundamental rule of construction, that a consistent and reasonable effect is to be given, if possible, to all
the words of a written instrument. The addition of the words
"a little more or less," implies some meaning in the grantorfor explanation of that meaning, distinct reference is made by
the condition itself to the disefio. The grant, then, is for land
not limited to an exact quantity by the condition, but "as is
explained " in the disefio. The grantor used words having
some meaning, and referred to a particular document to ex-

-DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
United States T. Fossat.

plain, and which does explain, that meaning consistently with
the boundaries specified in the body of the grant; the words
therefore cannot be rejected, nor the condition construed as
if they were stricken out.
In the case of The United States v. Larkin et al., 18 How.,
561, the Supreme Court *held that "the plan or sketch in the
espediente, in connection with the description given in the grant,
furnishes all the materials essential to determine the boundaries." That creeks, hills, and mountain ranges, exhibited on
the maps or disefio, and referred to in the grant, are adequate
monuments, and define boundaries of California grants with
sufficient certainty, was decided in Pedrorena's case. (19

How., 865.)
No principle of law is better settled, than that designated
boundaries called for in a grant control iii general the quantity
of land that passes by the grant.
Of the multitude of cases on this point, reference to a few
only need be made. "Where the boundaries of land are
1lxed,'known, and unquestionable monuments, although neither
courses nor distances, nor the computed contents, correspond,
the monuments must govern." (6 Mass., 131; 2 Mass. Rep.i
880; 5 Pick. Rep., 135; 6 Wheat., 582; 8 Wend., 183; 1 U.
S. Dig., Bound., 474, and cases cited.)
"Where a deed describes land by its admeasurement, and at
the same time by known and visible monuments, these latter
shall govern. "(4 U. S. Dig., Bound., and cases cited; Cleveland v. Smith, 2 Story, 278; Nelson v. Hall, 2 McLean, 518.)
"In locating lands, well-ascertained natural or artificial
boundaries are to prevail over course, distance, and quantity;
and although the boundaries included 136,000 acres instead
of 14,900, the number called for by the deed, the boundaries
were held to govern." (Sturgeon v. Floyd, 3 Rich, 80.)
An illustration of this rule is furnished by an early decision
of the Supreme Court of the United States, Lodge's Lessee v.
Lee, 6 Cranch, 237, where a grant of an island by name, superadding courses, distances, and quantity, which were found to
exclude a part of the island, was held to pass the whole island,
without regard to the courses, distances, and quantity, called
for by the deed. (6 Cranch, 237.)
But it is deemed needless to multiply authorities upon a rule
of law so well establihed.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellde presented to the board of commissioners, appointed under the act of Congress of the 3d March, 1851, (9
Stat. at L., 632, ch. 41,) to settle private land claims in Cali-

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Fossat.

fornia, a claim for three-fourths of a league of land, known as
part of the Cafiada de los Capitancillos. He produced to the
board satisfactory evidence of the authenticity of a grant from
the Governor of California, bearing date in 1842, to Justo
Larios, for a parcel of land having that name; also that Larios
had occupied, improved, and cultivated it, conformably to the
conditions of the grant; that in 1845 he had sold it to a person
from whom the appellee deduced his title to an undivided
three-fourths interest, and that his share had been set apart to
him by a valid conveyance. The board pronounced in favor
of the validity of the grant, and rendered a decree of confirmation in favor of the claimant for land included in specific and
well-defined boundaries, but adding as a part of the description
the quantity that was embraced in them. It is somewhat
doubtful whether the board designed to impose a limitation to
the claim for the quantity thus declared. From this decree
the United States appealed to the District Court. In that
court the appellee confessed that the decree of the commissioners was erroneous, because it did not describe in a manner
sufficiently certain the boundaries of the tract of land intended
to be confirmed to the claimant, and consented that the decision should be reversed, and such decree be entered in the
District Court as might be lawful and proper upon the whole
evidence.
The claimant proceeded to examine a number of witnesses
to identify the locative calls of the grant to Larios, and produced documentary evidence from the archives disclosing the
circumstances under which the grant was asked for and obtained,- in order to determine with exactness the subject on
which it was designed to operate. He also procured a survey
zfrom the surveyor general of California, to exhibit the extent
and description of the land included in the claims of those
who now.represent the rights of Larios. Much counter evidence was adduced under the direction of private and adversary claimants, to whom the law officers of the (Government
of the United States in California seem to have committed
the preparation of the case on the appeal to the District
Court, and who were allowed to maintain, in the name of
the United States, the alternative of the issue tendered by the
claimant.
The District Court confirmed the claim of the appellee to
land limited by specific boundaries, and ascertained those
boundaries, as they exist on the land, with precision. Under
this decree, the grant to Larios includes seven thousand five
hundred and eighty-eight and ninety-huridred-ths acres.
It is the opinion of the court that the intervention of adver-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

425

United States v. Fonsat.

sary claimants in the suit of a petitioner, under the act of 3d
March, 1851, for the confirmation of his claim to land in California, is a practice not to be encouraged. The board of commissioners was instituted by Congress to obtain a prompt
decision on the validity of private land claims, to enable the
(4overnment to distinguish the public land from that which
had been severed from the public domain by Mexico; and that
it might fulfil the obligation assumed at the ti 'me of the cession
of California, to secure and protect the property of its inhabitants. The jurisdiction of the board of commissioners in the
first instance, and the appellate jurisdiction of the courts of
the United States, are limited to the making of decisions on
the validity of the claim, preliminary to its location and survey
by the surveyor general of California, acting under the laws
of the United States. This officer is required to survey and
to furnish plats of the claim that may be confirmed.
In reference to interfering and conflicting claims, he is authorized to decide by adopting the lines agreed to by the
claimants; and in the absence of an agreemeht, to follow the
rule of justice. The acts of Congress provide, that neither the
decisions of the commissioners, nor of the District or SupremeCourt, nor of the surveyor general, nor the surveys or patents
made in pursuance of them, shall preclude a legal investigation
and decision, by the proper judicial tribunal, between parties
having such interfering claims; and provision is made in the
act of 3d March, 1851, for a contest of the right of the confirmee before the issue of the patent, but after the location and
survey; and a patent.under the act is only conclusive between
the United States and the claimant, and does not affect third
persons. (9 Stat. at L., 631, ch. 41; 4 Stat. at L., 492, ch.
116, sec. 6.) The language and policy of-these -enactments
limit a controversy like the present to the United States and
the claimant.
We concur in the opinion of the board of commissioners
and of the District Court, that affirms the validity of the grant
of the Governor of California to Justo Larios, afid the regularity of the conveyances, through which the claimant deduces
his title.
The papers in the record show, that in 1842 the proprietors
of adjacent ranches in the valley de los Capitancillos (Larios
and Berreyesa) had a dispute concerning the location of their
line of separatioii, which was carried before the public author-.
ities for settlement; that Larios, after the adjustment of the
controversy, represented to the Governor that, since 1836, he had occupied his place in the cafiada under a purchase from a
former proprietor; that the records of his title had been-lost,

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Fosat.

and that he desired to obtain a grant which would declare his
right. This petition was accompanied by a sketch of the property, and its contents were represented to be one league, a little
more or less. The Governor made the necessary order for the
issue of the grant, in conformity to the prayer of the petition, and
the grant itself was issued in August, 1842. Inthe grant, the
Spetition for the land known as Capitancillos-bounded by the
sierra, by the Arroyo Seco on the side of the establishment of
Santa Clara, and by the rancho of the citizen Jose R. Berreyesa, which has for boundary a line running from the junction
of the Arroyo Seco and Arroyo de los Alamitos, southward,
to the sierra, passing by the eastern base of the small hill situate in the centre of the cafiada-is recited; and the Governor
granted it to Larios, to be his property, subject to the approval
of the Departmental Assembly, and to the performance of four
conditions. The second and third of these conditions are:
"2d. He shall solicit the proper judge to give him judicial
possession, in virtue of this decree, by whom the boundaries
shall be marked out, and he shall put on the boundaries, in
addition to the landmarks, some fruit trees or useful forest
trees.
"3d. The land herein referred to is one league of the larger
size, a little more or less, as is explained by the map accompanying this espediente. The judge who shall give the possession shall have it measured, in conformity to law, leaving the
surplus which remains to the nation, for the purposes which
may best suit it."
The southern, western, and eastern boundaries of the land
granted to Larios are well defined, and the objects exist by
which those limits can be ascertained. There is no call in thegrant for a northern boundary, nor is there any reference to
the diseffo for any natural object, or other descriptive call, to
ascertain it. The grant itself furnishes no other criterion for
determining that boundary than the limitation of the quantity,
as is expressed in the third condition. This is a controlling
condition in the grant. The delivery of judicial possession,
an essential ceremony to perfect the title in the land system
of Mexico, was to be accommodated to it. The disefio presented by the donee to the Governor, to inform him of his
wants, represents the quantity to be one league, a little more
or less. This representation is assumed to be true by the
Governor, and it forms the basis on which his consent to the
petition is yielded. He prescribes to the officer to whom he
confided the duty of completing the title, to measure a specified quantity, leaving the surplus that remains to the nation,
as preparatory to the delivery of judicial possession to the

DECEMBER TERM, 1857

427

Suydama v. Wliamn d al.

grantee. The obligation of the United States to this grantee
will be fulfilled by the performance of the executive acts, which
are devolved in the grant on the local authority, and which
are declared in the two conditions before cited. We regard'
these conditions to contain a description of the thing granted,
and, in connection with the other calls of the grant, they enable us to define it. We reject the words "a little more or
less," as having no meaning in a system of location and suirvey
like that of the united States, and that the claim of the grantee
is valid for the quantity clearly expressed. If the limitation
of the quantity had not been so explicitly declared, it might
have been proper to refer to the petition and the diselo, or to
have inquired if the name Capitancillos had any significance
as connected with the limits of the tract, in order to give effect
to the grant. But there is no necessity for additional inquiries. , The grant'is not affected with any ambiguity. The intention of the Government of California is distinctly declared,
and there is no rule of law-to authorize us to depart from
the grant to obtain evidence to contradict, vary, or limit its
import.
The grant to Larios is for oneleague of land, to be taken
within the southern, western, and eastern boundaries designated therein, and which is to be located, at the election of
-the grantee or his assigns, under the restrictions established]
for the location and survey of private land claims in California
by the executive department of this Government. The external boundaries designated in the grant may be declared by
the District Court from the evidence on file, and such other
evidence as may be produced before it, and the claim of an
interest equal to three-fourths of the land granted is conifrmed

to the appellee.
The decree of the District Court is reversed, and the cause
is remanded to that court, with directions to enter a decree
conforming to this opinion.
JAMES H. SUYDAM, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM H. WILLIAMSON, DAVID R. WILLIAMSON, MARY A. WILLIAMSON, ISABELLA WILLIAMSON, CATHERINE B. WILLIAMSON, CHARLOTTE

A. WILLIAMSON,

RUPERT
AND BAYARD CLARKE.

J. COCHRAN, ISABELLA M. COCHRANE,

Rulings of the court below, in admitting or rejecting evidence, can be brought to
this court for revisiop only by a bill of exceptions.
Every special verdict, in order to enable the appellate court to act upon it, must
find the facts on which the court is to pronounce the judgment according to law,
and not merely state the evidence of facts. In this manner it becomes a part of
the record.

