DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

3

IFynn v. Morris et al.

as valid as if the grantor or vendor had the legal estate or interest at the time of sale or conveyance."
Now, this case was tried in the court below, on the 8th of
June, 1849, and this section of the act of 1833 had been construed by the Supreme Court of Illinois, as to its application
to the conveyance in question, in the. case of Frisby v. Ballance; decided in that court in: 1845, and reported in 2d Gilman, 141. It was held in that case that the fee in the premises inured under the statute to Underhill and his assigns.
This construction of the statute was therefore a settled rule of
roperty at the time of the decision of this case in the court
elow, which that court was bound to follow; and having so
decided, there was certainly no error in the decision at the
time it was made.
But it is argued, that though the decision of the Circuit
Court was in accordance with the established construction of
the statutes of Illinois, and the rules of property as then declared by her highest tribunal, yet that it has become erroneous, because of a change of the law since that tine, by a decision of the Supreme Court of the State in 1853, in the case
of Frink v. Durst, (14 Illinois, 305,) by which the case of
Frisby v. Ballance was overruled and reversed. It is true
that the same conveyance and the same statute were in question in the last case, and have received a contrary construction to that which had governed such conveyances hs a rule
of property for more than eight years.
If the judgment of the Circuit Court in this case had been
given since the last decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois,
this court might have been compelled to decide whether they
considered themselves bound to follow the last decision of that
court, or at liberty to choose between them. But, however
the latter decision may have a retroactive effect upon the titles
held under the deed in question, it cannot have that effect
upon the decisions of the Cikcuit Court, and make that erroneous which was not so when the judgment of that court
was given. It is therefore affirmed,- with costs.

ROBERT

HI. WYN, EXECUTOR AND DEvrsIE oF WLLiAm WYNN,
B. MORRIS ET AL.

DECEASED, PLAINTIFF Iw ERROR, V. CHARLES

In the present case, the complainant and appellant did not derive his title to the
land in dispute from any statute of the United States; and therefore this court has
no jurisdiction over the matter by virtue of the 25th section of the judiciary act.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the

SUPREME COURT.
Wynn v. Morris et al.

State of Arkansas, by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted on printed arguments, by Mr. Tike for the
plaintiff in error, and by Hr. Watkins and Mr. Bradley for the
defendant.
The arguments upon both sides were directed almost entirely
to the merits of the case; the question ofjurisdiction was made
by the counsel for the defendant in this manner:
If the decision of the court below had been against the right
claimed by Mrs. Taylor, under the act of Congress of the 29th
of May, 1830, she would have had a right of appeal, but Wynn
would not; although the case might be said to involve the
construction of that act, because, confessedly, he does not claim
any right under it.
The decision being in favor of the right, there is no ground
left for the appellate jurisdiction of this court to rest upon,
unless the plaintiff can make it appear that the decision of the
court below involved the construction of the act of September
4th, 1841, and was against a right claimed under that act for
of Arkansas.
State
lands to the
granting
But, according
to the
case made by the bill, the State does
not and cannot claim any title to this land under the act of
1841. Whether the plaintiff ever acquired any right to it from
the State or under the selection, is purely a question of contract, or of private grievance, as between him and the State.
True, he must trace his title back to the act of 1841. But in
that sense, every disputed land case might come up to this
court, as all titles are more or less remotely derived from the
United States.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The complainant filed his bill in a State Circuit Court in
Arkansas, to enjoin Morris from executing a writ of possession
founded on a recovery by an action of ejectment for the northwest quarter of section 18, in township 16, south of Red river.
Wynn alleges that the whole of the quarter section was cultivated by him, and had been for years before the inception
of Morris's title, and that he, Wynn, claimed title to the land
through the State of Arkansas, and that Morris had obtained
a legal title in fraud of Wynn's superior right in equity.
Morris claims through Keziah Taylor. In 1829-and in 1830,
when the occupant law of that year passed, she was a widow,
and cultivated a small farm on the land in dispute; she sold-

DECEM'BER TERM, 1857.

5

Wyrnn v. Horris et al.

out her possessions there in the latter part of 1830, left the
country secretly, and settled permanently in the Mexican province of Coahuila and Texas, and there she remained without
returning to Arknsas until December, 1842, when she nade
,her appearance, proved her cnltivation in 1829, and her continuing possession in May, 1830,'in the
form prescribed
the
entered thebyland,
act of that year, had her pre-emption allowed,
and sold it to Morris. She got a patent in 1844.
The reason why Mrs. Taylor did not efiter the land at an
earlier
day and
was,within
that the
No.the16date
wasofnot
surveyed
until 1841,
one township
year befre
her entry.
Wynn
seeks
a
decree
on
the
ground
that
procured
M 3rs.
Taylor to enter the land for Morris's M¢orris when
she
had no right of pre-emption, because of thebenefit,
abandonmdnt of
her possesion for more than ten years.
The register
andofreceiver
heldthey
thatrefused
vested
a preference
by the act
of entry was
1830, and
to investigate
the
fact of abandonment. This opinion was concurred in by
the
Commissioner of theGeneral Land Office. And, to correct
-

this
alleged
error,prayed;
the bill was
filed.
refused
the relief
adjudged

The State Circuit Court
that
Mrs. Taylor obtained

abrvalid
title to the
the possession.
land, and decreed damages against W ynn
detaining
From this decree he

appealed
to the Supreme Court of Arkansas, where the decree
the
Circuit Court was affirmed, and to that decree yin of
prosecutes his writ of eanror out of this court; and.the first question
herm is, whether we he ejurisdiction to re-examine and reverse
or affirm the decree of the State courts. This can only
done in a case where is drawn in question the constrnction be
of
a statute of the United States, &c., and the decision is against
the tile set up or claimed under the state by the losing pay.
If
ynn
had oStates,
title, ofan
course
he could
of the
claim
United
under
law
cananot
comenot
here
under
thea25th
section of the judiciary act of 1789, merely t draw in
iquestion the decree which dismissed his bill.
To this effect are the cases of Owings v. diorwood's lessee,
(5 Wetynn
Cra., 844;)
Henderson.v.
How.,
sets up
a pretensionTennessee,
of claim to(10the
land 811.)

in dispute
through the State of Arkansas, which State was authorized
to
locate 500,000 acres of land by acts of Congress passed in
1841 •
and 1842; and the corpainant insists that he had made a contract with e State,
th rough her locating agent, Charles E.
Moore, who was actin under instructions from the Governor
of said State, to the efiect that he, the complainant, should be
allowed to purchase the land from the State at two dollars per
acre. But the State did not locate this quarter section, nor

6

SUPREME COURT.
Garland v. Wytnn.

had it an interest in it at any time; so that the title was outstanding in the United States till Keziah Taylor made her
entry.
The complainant, Wynn, having no interest in the land but
a naked possession, not protected by an act of Congress, we
order that his writ error be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

JOSIAH GARLAND, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ROBERT H. WYNN,
EXECUTOR AND DEVISEE OF WILLIAM WYNN, DECEASED.
Where several parties set up conflicting claims to property, with which a special
tribunal may deal, as between one party and the Government, regardless of the
rights of others, the latter may come into the ordinary courts of justice, and litigate the conflicting claims.
Therefore, in a case where the register and receiver of public lands have been
imposed upon by ex varte affidavits, and the patent has been obtained by one
having no interest secured to him in virtue of the pre-emption laws, to the destruction of another's right who had a preference of entry which he preferred
and exerted in due form, but which right was defeated by false swearing and
fraudulent contrivance brought about by him to whom the patent was awardedin such a case, the jurisdiction of the courts of justice is not ousted by the regulations of the Commissioner of the General Land Office.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Arkansas, by writ of error issued under the 25th section of the

judiciary act.
It was submitted on printed arguments, by Mr. Bradley and
31r. Watkins for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Pike for the
defendant in error.
The controversy referred to the northeast quarter of section
18, in township 16 south, range 25 west of the fifth principal
meridian, south of Red river, in the county of Lafayette.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
The bill was filed by Wynn, who alleged that he would have
got a patent but for Garland's proving a pre-emption right in
the land, under the act of 1830, to exist in Hemphill. After
various proceedings, the Circuit Court (State court) decreed
against Wynn. The Supreme Court of the State reversed this
decree, and ordered Garland to convey the land in question to
Wynn, upon payment of two hundred dollars, with interest;
or in case of neglect, that the decree should stand as a conveyance, &c.
From this decree, Garland appealed to this court.
The principal points of law involved in the argument were:
1st, whether or'not Wynn could interpose between the United

