280

SUPREME COURT.'
Atusina et al. v. Cavazos et al.

making any decision or holding any plea in the cause; and
that the removal of it from one point to another within the
district was an useless as it was an irregular and illegal act.
Thirdly. It must be presumed, that knowing himself to be
thus disqualified, he could have no legitimate power to retain
the cause under his own control for several years ;-that such a
retention might. be oppressive as it was illegal; and that his
only power was that which' the law imposed upon him as a
duty, the power of an immediate removal of the cause, upon
its institution, to a tribunal exempt from disqualifications which
he knew existed with reference to himself. It may truly be
thought to have been a mistaken and unfortunate course in
those to whom the interests of the district judge were confided,
that they did not seek, nay, challenge and insist upon investigation, rather than exclude it under the stress of a formula in
pleading, the applicafion of which was of doubtful propriety, if
not irregular in this case. By a different proceeding, they
might have met directly charges openly alleged, and might
have removed implications, to which the suppression of inquiry
may have imparted a semblance of truth.
Upon the considerations hereinabove stated, and with a view
to the more thorough investigation as to the law and the facts
of this cause than the record before us has disclosed, it is my
opinion that the judgment of the Circuit Court should be
reversed, and this qause remanded to that court for a new
trial to be had therein.

Ex

PARTE IN THE MATTER OF JACOB MUSSINA AND ANGELA
GARCIA LAFON DE TARNEVA, ET AL. APPELLANTS, V. RAFAEL
GARCIA CAVAZOS AND WIFE, ET AL.

A rule laid upon the district judge of the State of Texas, to show cause why a
mandamus should not be issued for him to allow an appeal in a certain case;
but upon an examination of the case, the mandamus refused.

ON motion for a rule on the Hon. John C. Wafrous, judge
of the District Court of the United States for the eastern district of Texas, to show cause, &c.
Mr. Benjamin, of counsel for the said Jacob Mussina and
Angela Garcia Lafon de Tarneva, appellants as aforesaid, and
two of the defendants in the above-entitled cause, moved the
court for a rule on the Hon. John C. Watrous judge of the
District Court of the United States for the eastern district caf
Texas, requiring him to show cause, on the first -Monday of

DECEMBER 'TERM, 1857.

281

f Amina et al. v. Cavazos et a.

February next, why a peremptory writ of mandamus should
not issue, directing him to allow the appeal of the said defendants from the final decree rendered against them-in the aboveentitled cause, and to grant all 'such legal orders as may be
necessary to enable said defendants to bring said appeal regularly befbre this court. On consideration whereof; it-is now
here ordered by the court that a rule on the Hon. John C.
Watrous, judge of the Di'strict Court of the United States for
the eastern district of Texas, requiring him to show cause, on
the first Monday of February next, why a peremptory writ of
mandamus should not issue for the purposes above stated, be,
and -the same is hereby, granted. And it is further ordered,
that a copy of this rule be forthwith served on the said district
judge.
.December 24, 1857.
A copy of this rule wis served upon Judge Watrus, when
he filed the following answer:
In answer to a rule recently made by this court, requiring,
me to show cause why a peremptory writ of mandamus shoula
not be issued, commanding me to allow the appeal of Jacob
Mussina and Maria Angela Garcia de Tarneva, two of the
defendants in a cause heretofore mentioned, in the District
Court of the United States foe. the district of Texas, I most
respectfully state that I am now ready to allow said appeal,
anT always have been. That I have never been disposed to
oppo.e or hinder it. My desire has always been that my decision in the case should be revised by this honorable court,
where, if it was right, it would be affrmed, and where any
error into which I may have fallen will be at once detected and
reformed. Some tine before the 15th day of January,. 1857,
Mr. Daniel D. Atchison, of Galveston, stated to me at chahhers that he wished to take an appeal for Mussina, in the Cavazos case. I asked him whether the time limited for taking
appeals had expired or not. He said that it had not. I then
replied, "Mr. Mussina has a right to the appeal, and I will
give it to him, as a matter of course. Call it up in the courthouse at any time when the opposing counsel is present, and.
I will fix the amount of the bond and perfect the appeal." It
has been my practice, whenever it is convenient, to hear both
sides as to the amount of the bond. The opposing counsel, Mr.
Hale, resided in Galveston-his office is but a very short distaice from the court-house. The court at the time of-the application was in session, and Mr. Hale was in daily attendance
upon.it. Nqotice might have beeA served upon him very easily,at any time. If notice had been served upon him, I should

282

SUPREME COURT.
Mussina et al. v. Cavazoq el al.

have proceeded without his presence and perfected the appeal.
But I was never informed that Mr. Hale had notice of the application. No citations were ever presented to me for signature-no bond for my approval.
I have no recollection that the application was ever renewed
to me, either in open court or at chambers. The conversation
which occurred at my office, between Air. Atchison and myself, as above stated, is the only one of which I have any remembrance. I do not say that the appeal was never brought
to my notice in open court, but I do say, that if it ever was,
I do not remember it.
The session of the court continued for several weeks, and I
believe months, after the application of M r. Atchison was made
to me. M'Kr. Hale was in almost constant attendance upon the
court in attention to his business, and it would have been very
easy for MKr. Atchison to present the matter to the court when
Mr. Hale was present. If he had done so, I should, without
the least hesitation, have proceeded to do anything necessary
to perfect the appeal. If he had stated that he could not procure the attendance of Mr. Hale, or could not wait further for
his attendance without injury to his client, I should have proceeded to act on the application at once. The intervention of
this court is entirely unnecessary, as I am ready at any moment,
when requested, to proceed to approve a proper and sufficient
appeal bond, and to sign a proper citation; and even if I should
not be satisfied with the bond which might be presented to
me, and should refuse to approve it, the parties affected by
such refusal could at once obtain their appeal from any of the
judges of this court, either during the term or afterwards. I
submit, therefore, that the rule should be discharged.
23, 1858.
Washington, Jan.

In support of this answer I beg leave to refer to several affidavits received since it was written, and which accompany
JOHN C. WATROUS.

it.

February1, 1858.
District Court of the United States, -Eastern District of Texas, at
Galveston.
RAFAEL GARCIA CAVAZOS ET AL. V. CHARLES STILLMAN ET AL.

In Chancery, No. 41.

I, Joseph E. Love, deputy clerk of the District Court of
the United States for the eastern district of Texas, at Galveston, make oath and say: That, on the 13th day of January,
A. D. 1857, Daniel ID.Atchison, Esq., brought into the clerk's

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

283

Atuuina et al. v. Cavazos et al.

office of said court a paper purporting to be a petition of Jacob
Mussina and others, to join in an appeal theretofore taken in
the above-entitled cause. Affiant believes that this was in
the afternoon of said day, and the endorsement of filing
made on that day is in my handwriting. I was present
when the petition was presented to Judge Watrous by Mr.
Atchison. His honor asked him if the five years allowed
by law for taking an appeal had expired? Mr. Atchison
replied, "No." Judge Watrous then replied,- as near as
I can remember, -in these words: "Certainly, sir, I will
grant your request, and any day you will get the opposing
counsel and come to me, I will fix the bond and perfect the
appeal." It was my duty to be in court whilst it was in session, and I was there during the greater part of the time. F.
J. Parker officiated in the absence of the clerk and myself.
To the best of my remembrance and belief, no application for
appeal in said cause was made in open court, from the 13th to
the 16th of January, inclusive. I believe I was in court, on
J. E. LoVE.
those days,. all the time it was in session.
United Slates District Courtfor the Eastern -Districtof Texas.
CxrT-zos ET AL. v. STILLMTA

ET AL.

In CAancery, No. 41.

I, James Love, clerk of the United States District Court,
sitting at Galveston, state, on oath, that it appears from the
Qinutes of the court now before me, entered in my own handwriting, that I was in court from the 19th to the 20th January,
1857, inclusive; that during that time, whilst I was in court,
to the best of my recollection and belief, no application was
made, in open court, by D. D. Atchison, or any other, fbr appeal in the above cause, on any of those days. I further state,
that I was not in court all the time of its session on the days
named, but was never absent without leaving one or both of
m deputies, F. J. Parker and Joseph E. Love, with strict injunctions that one of them should always be at the clerk's
table. The court opened at 10 A. M., at 2 P. M., with an'
uniformity I have not seen equalled. I usually left court beJAmEs LovE.
tween 11 and 12 o'clock.
In the United Sate District'Courtfor the -EasternDistkct of Texas.
CAVAZoS ET AL. V. STILLMAN XT AL.

In Chancery, No. 41.

I, F. J. Parker, state, on oath, that I was present at the
January term of the United States District Court for the eastern district of Texas, sitting at Galveston, on each of the days
from the 13th to the 16th of Sanuary, 1857, inclusive; that during
that time no application was made in open court. from any

SUPREME COURT.2tasina et al. v. Cavazos et al.

source, for an appeal in said chancery cause, No. 41, or for any
other action relating to the same, while I was present in court.
I further state that, at the said term of said court, I was acting
as deputy clerk of the same for James Love, the clerk of the
court, at Galveston, and that it was my custom always to be
p resent during the absence of the said James Love, or J. E.
Love, his deputy; and that, to the best of my recollection, I
was never absent from court when one or the other of the said
gentlemen were not present.
F. J. PARKER.
In the United States District Court, -Eastern -Districtof Texas,
Galveston.
CAVAZOS ET AL. V. STILLMAN ET AL.

Chancery, Ao. 41

I, J. A. HI. Cleveland, state, on oath, that I am deputy marshal, and have been since the appointment of Ben. McCulloch
as marshal of the district of Texas, in 1853; and that, as such
deputy marshal, it is my duty and my business to be present
each day when the court is in session, and I can safely say that,
to the best of my knowledge, I have never been absent a day
when it was my duty to be present in court.
I attended regularly the January term, 1857, every day, and
I never saw nor heard of any petition for an appeal in the above
case until I received, a few days ago, from Mr. Hale, a document, the affidavit of Mussina fbr mandamus, which was copy,
as he wrote me, filed by Mussina in the Supreme Court of the
United States, and which said copy of affidavit he, the said
Hale, wrote me to hand to Judge Watrous.
I am positively certain that the attorney for Mussina did
not at any time during the January term, 1857, present or
read any such paper in open court. From the fact that this
case was an important one, and much clamor raised against
Judge Watrous about it, I have been particular in noticing all
the action taken by counsel in court in relation thereto, and
thus the reason why I am so positively certain as to the statement above made.
J. A. H. CLEVELAND.
Subscribed and sworn to before me, this fourteenth day of
January,' 1858.
F. J. PARKER, U. S. Commissioner.
United States -DistrictCourt for the -Districtof Texas.
CAVAZOS ET AL. V. STILLMAN ET AL.

in Chancery, No. 41.

I, Jo.eph E. Love, deputy clerk of the United States District Court for the eastern district of Texas, do, upon oath,
depose and say, in addition to my affidavit of this date, previously made and sworn to before F. J. Parker, commissioner, etc.,

285

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Huisna et al. v. Cavazos et al.

at the request of Ebenezer Allen, of counsel for the plaintiffs
in the above-entitled and numbered cause, that I have this day
carefully examined the minutes of the court for the entire
month of January, 1857, and find that they contain no entry
whatsoever in the said cause, of or relating to any proceeding
had therein, either upon the said petition 6f appeal mentioned
in the affidavit of Simon Mussina, filed in the Supreme Court
of the United States, at the December term thereof, 1857, (as
appears by a copy of said affidavit, duly certified by William
Thomas Carroll, clerk of said court, which I have read,) or
upon any other matter whatsoever pertaining to said cause.
And I further say, that if any action had' been taken or proceeding had in said cause, in open'court, upon said petition,
or touching the matter thereof in any manner whatsoever, the
same would have been entered at the time, and would now
J. E. LovE..
appear upQn the said minutes.
Sworn to and subscribed before me, this fourteenth day of
F. J. PARKER,

January, A. D. 1858.

U. S. Commissionerfor the Eastern District of Texas.
_District of Texas.
R:AFAEL GAECL& CAVAZOS ET AL. V. CHARLES STILLMAN ET AL.

n Chancery, at Gal-

Veston.

I, John S. Jones, make oath and say, that I was crier of the
District Court of the United States for the eastern district of
Texas, at Galveston, during the January term, 1857, of said
court; that during the most of the time said suit was pending
in said court, I was deputy clerk thereof, and was familiar with
said cause, and that but little transpired in the progress of said
cquse, of any importance, with which I was not familiar.
I further say that said cause was one of deep and exciting
interest, and that circumstances attending said cause drawing
attention especially thereto.
And I further say, tihat from the 1st to the 15th of January,
1857, I was but rarely absent from said court during its sessions, and that I have no recollection of any application having
been made in open court, during the time aforesaid, for an appeal in said cause, nor do I believe that such application could
have been made and refused by the court without my knowledge. I further say, that I am personally acquainted with some
of the parties, and am well acquainted with almost every counsellor who from time to time was eng ged in said cause.
JOHN S. JONES.

SUPREME COURT.
.3ussinaet at. v. Cavazos et at.

Sworn to and subscribed before me, this 14th day of January,
F. J. PARKER,
A. D. 1858.
U. S. Commissionerfor the Eastern -Districtof Texas.
United States -DistrictCourt for the -Districtof Texas-now the
United Slates -DistrictCourtfor the Eastern -Districtof Texas.
CAVAZOS ET AL.

V. STILLMAN ET AL.

In Chancery, Nro. 41.

On motion of J. P. Beqjamin, of counsel for Jacob MAussina
and Angela Garcia Lafon de Tarneva, two of the defendants
in the above-entitled cause, ordered that the Hon. John 0.
Watrous, judge of the District Court of the United States for
the eastern district of Texas, show cause on the first Monday of
February next why a mandamus should not issue, directing
him to allow the appeal of said defendants from the final decree
rendered against them in the above-entitled cause, and to grant
all such legal orders as may be necessary to enable said defendants to bring said appeal regularly befbre this court.
United States -DistrictCourtfor the Di.triei of Texas.
CAVAZOS ET AL. V. STILLMAN ET AL.

In Chaucer,.NVo. 41.

Simon Mussina, being duly sworn, deposeth that le is the
agent of Patrick C. Shannon, Jacob Mussina, and Angela Garcia Lafon de Tarneva, three of the defendants in the abeveentitled cause, and is intrusted by them with the care and protection of their interests in said suit; that said suit was instituted in the District Court of the United States, having and
exercising the powers and jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of Texas, on the 12th day of January, 1849, and that a final decree was rendered in said cause,
a-ainst said three defendants and other co-defendants, by the
eon. John C. Watrous, judge of said court, on the 15th day
of January, 1852, and that an appeal was taken from said final
decree by said Shannon on the 30th July, 1856, which appeal
is now pending in this honorable bourt; that at the last term
of this honorable court, to wit, in the month of December,
1856, this affiant retained the services of counsel for the argument of.said cause in this court in behalf of said Shannon, and
that, on examination of the record, this deponent was advised
by said counsel that the said appeal had been taken irregularly,
and would be dismissed for this, to wit, that the said final decree was joint against the several defendants in said suit, and
that the co-defenjdants of said Shannon had not joined in the
appeal, nor been notified to join; that thereupon this deponent,
being desirous to perfect said appeal in behalf of said Shannon,
and also desirous to make said Jacob Mussina and Angela

DECEMBER TERM, i857.-

287

M3ussina el a. v. Cavazos et al.

Tarneva joint appellants with him, did, prior to the expiration
of five years from the date of said final decree, to wit, in the
month of January last, (1857,) and sevdral days before the
fifteenth day of said morth, cause to be presented to the said
Tudge Watrous, in chambers, a petition of appeal in: the name
and behalf of said Jacob Mussina and Aiigela Tarneva from
said final decree, and in said petition -prayed for a citation of
all parties in interest, to the end that said co-defendant, Patrick 0. Shannon, might join in said appeal, and that all the
other co-defendants might also join or refuse to join in said
appeal; and said petition of appeal further contained an offei
to'give such appeal bond as might be required by saidl Judge
Watrous; as the whole will more fully appear by reference to
a duly-certified copy of said petition of appeal, hereunto appended as part of the affidavits, marked A.
And this afflant doth further depose, that the said honorable
judge declined at the time of said presentation of said-petition
to aTilow said appeal, or to order the other parties in interest to
be cited, or to fix the amount of or approve any appeal bond
but declared that he would consider the subject, and report his
decision to the attorney who signed said petition of appeal;
that after the lapse of some days, without any decision having
beei. given as promised by said judge, he was again requesteA
in open court, and prior to the said fifteenth day of January
.last, and by the said attorney who had signed said petition of
appeal, to allow said appeal and grant said order of citation,
and approve an appeal bond as aforesaid; but said Judge Watrous again declined to allow said appeal or grant any order in
the premises, saying he would fix the amount of bond to be
given by petitioners when the opposite counsel should be in
court; and this deponent further saith that the said John C.
Watrous, judge as aforesaid, hath not yet allowed said appeal,
but declines and neglects to allow the same, or to grant any
order for citations as aforesaid, or to approve any appeal bond,
so that, without the aid and interposition of this honorable
court, the said Patrick C. Shannon, Jacob Mussina, and Angela Garcia'Lafon de Tarneva, are utterly without remedy in
the premises, and without the means of exercising their legalright of having said final decree examined and revised on appeal in this honorable court.'
SIMoN MussExA.
Sworn and subscribed in open court.
"WM. Tios. CARROLL, Clerk
Sqpreme Court of the United States.
-December 24, 1857.

-

SUPREME COURT.
Afussina et at. v. Cavazos et al.

United States of America, District of Texas.
CAvAzos ET AL. V. STILLMAN ET AL.

In Chancery, .No. 41.

To the Honorable John C. Watrous, Judge of the United States
District Courtfor the District of Texas.
The petition of Jacob Mussina and Angela Garcia Lafon de
Tarneva, who are defendants with Patrick C: Shannon in the
above-entitled and numbered cause, and in which said cause a
final decree was rendered in this court on the 15th day of January, 1852, being the highest court in which a decision could be
had; that the real estate disposed of by said decree, and the
property there set forth, was of more than two thousand dollars
in value; that the decision and. decree of your honorable court,
rendered in the above-entitled and numbered cause, was adverse
to the right title, &c., of petitioners, and that it so appears of
record; that said Patrick C. Shannon, the co-defendant of petitioners, having prayed an appeal to the United States court from
the decision of your honor, petitioners referring to the petition
of said Shannon, and the appeal bond filed in said cause by the
said co-defendant, now comes and prays your honor to allow
your petitioners to join and unite with your co-defendant in
said appeal from the decree rendered as aforesaid by your honor,
and that all parties in interest be cited, &c., and for'such orders
as may be necessary in effecting said appeal; and petitioners
are ready to tender such bond for costs, &c., as may be required,

&c., by this honorable court.

JAco

MussInA,

ANGELA LAFON DE TARNEVA,

By their Attorney, DANIEL D. ATcHISoN.
United States of America, Eastern District of Texas.
I, James Love, clerk of the District Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Texas, certify the foregoing
to be a true copy of the original-purporting to be a petition
for appeal to the 'Supreme ourt of the United States in the
case No. 41 in chancery, wherein Rafael Garcia Cavazos and
others are complainants, and Charles Stillman and others are
defendants, by Jacob Mussina and Angela Garcia Lafon de
Tarneva.
In testimony whereof I hereunto set my hand and affix
SEAL. I-the seal of said court at the city of Galveston, this eighth
day of July, A. D. 1857.
JAmEs LOVE, Cle k.
Mr. Justice McLEA.N delivered the opinion of the court,
A motion was made at this term for a rule on the district
judge of Texas to show cause why a mandamus should not be
issued, commanding him to allow an appeal in the above case.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

289

Hiuaina el al. v. Cavazos et al.

This rule was granted on the affidavit of Simon Mussina, as
agent for a part of the defendants.
In his answer the judge says, "I am now ready to allow the
appeal, and always have been; that some time before the 15th
day of January, 1857, Mr. Daniel Atchison, of Galveston,
stated to him, at chambers, that he wished to take an appeal
for Jacob Nussina in the above case, and that the judge inquired whether the time limited for taking appeals had expired,
and was informed it had not. The judge then replied, "Mr.
Mussina has a right to an appeal, and I will allow it as a matter of course, when the opposing.c6unsel shall appear, and I will
fix the amount of the bond." It is his practice to allow-appeals
in the presence of counsel. Mr. Hale, the counsel for the defendants, lives in Galveston, near to the place where the court
was held, and was daily in court. INo application seems to have
been made in court on the subject of the appeal; no citation was
presented to the district judge; no bond for his approval. The
conversation with Mr. Atchison, at the chambers of the judge,
respecting the appeal, is all that was.said to him on the subject.'
Ifit were mentioned in open court, he has no recollection of it.
The clerk of the court, the deputy clerk, the crier, the marshal of the United States and his deputy, who were in attendance on the court, all corroborate, on oath, the statement of
the judge, and say no application was made in open court for
the appeal; and no entry on the docket is found of such an
application. From the certified copy of the petition for an
appeal, it does not appear to have been filed, or that an entry
of it was made on the docket.
A party wishing an appeal should make an application for
its allowance in open court, or to the judge at his chambers,
and should name his securities. And the bond should be prepared for the approval of the judge, and the citation for his
signature, unless the appeal was prayed in open court and entered upon the record. It appears the decree in question was
entered jointly against several defendants, and that an appekil
by Patrick C. Shannon only, *rho was one of the defendants,
was taken. Simon Mussina, on whose oath the rule was entered, was agent for Jacob Mussina, Angela Garcia Lafon
Tarneva, who were also defendants, and he desired that these
persons might be allowed an appeal, and also the other defendants, so as to remove the case to thq Supreme Court. At
this time, the cause was pending in the 'Supreme Court,'on
the appeal taken by Shannon. That appeal was irregular, as
less than all the defendants in a joint decree cannot appeal
without a summons and severance in the court below, And
this was not done on Shannon's appeal.
VOL. xx.

19

290

SUPREME COURT.
Sikby et al. v. Foote.

The regular mode of proceeding would have been to dismiss
the appeal in this court, pray for another appeal in the court
below, and for a summons and severance, so that the defendants desirous of an appeal might take it, without the concurrance of those defendants who were opposed to it. Iad the
appeal been prayed in open court, and entered upon the record,
the judge below might well have refused it, as the legal steps
for its allowance were not taken. Under such circumstances,
it was the duty of the judge to act in the presence of the opposing counsel. (Owings et al. v. Kincannon, 7 Peters, 899;
Todd et al. v. Daniel, 16 Peters, 521.)
Whether an application might not have been made to this
court to correct the irregularity of the appeal, is not before us
under the rule for the mandamus. The writ is refused.

HORACE C. SILSBY ET AL., APPELLANTS, V. ELISIIA FOOTE.
Where an appeal from a decree is taken within ten days from the rendition of the
decree, it is in time to operate as a supersedeas; and so, also, if taken within ten
days after the decree is settled and signed.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern district of New York, sitting as a court
of equity.
There were two cases upon the docket, with precisely the
same caption, one numbered 54, and the other 106. ,
The case in question was the one numbered 106, which it
was moved to dismiss, for the following reasons:
And the said appellee comes into court at the December
term thereof, 1857, and moves the said court to dismiss the
appeal in this cause, docketed as No. 106 at the said term,
upon the ground that there had been previously taken by the
said appellants an appeal from the same portions of the decree
made below, which are appealed from in this cause, and which
prior appeal~ is still pending and undetermined in this court;
and such motion will be made upon the records filed in this
cause, and in cause No. 54 on the docket for December term,
1857.

R. H. GILLET,

December 18, 1857.
Of Counselfor Appellee.
Mr. Gillet's argument was as follows:
Foot.sued Silsby and others in equity in the Circuit Court
for the northern district of New York, for violating his patent.
A final decree was rendered therein on the 28th day of August,
1856. On the 4th of Septemuber thereafter, the defendants, by

