DECEMBER TERM, 857.

541

Whyte v. Gibbea et aL, Cibbem et aL v. Whyte.

was disposed of in the case when before us on the merits, and
was not reserved for the hearing on the adjustment of the
accounts before the court below, on 'the coming down of the
mandate. (17 How., 257..)
An objection has been made by the counsel for-the appelperlant, Williams, inrespect to the order of the court below,
mitting a supplemental answer. We suppose this question
rather a matter of practice than otherwise, resting in the discretion of the court below, and as a matter of convenience
preparatory to the taking- of the account before the master.
The answer-and, for aught we see, the object in viev might
as well have been attained by-a petition to the court; stating
the facts-was put in for the purpose of bringing to the notice
of the court the matters relied on in the adjustment of the accounts, and by way of charges to be deducted from the amount
claimed. The proceeding enabled the court to give in advance
directions to the master in making the settlement, and thereby
narrow the grounds of controversy before him, and facilitate
the hearing. It could work no prejudice to either party, foi
no claim by way of abatement of the account thus set up in the
answer or petition should be allowed by the court, but -what
was pertinent to the subject of examination before the master.
Upon the whole, we are satisfied the decree of the court below was right, and ought to be affirmed.
* Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.

WILLIAM PINKNEY WHYE, ADMINISTRATOR DE B30NIS N~ON OF
'JOHN GOODING, DECEASED, APPELLANT, V. ROBERT M. GIBBES
AND CHARLES OLIVER, SURVIVING EXECUTORS OF ROBERT OLI.VER, DECEASED; AND ROBERT M. GIBBES AND CHAR*LES OLIVER,
SURVIVING EXECUTORS OF ROBERT OLIVER, DECEASED, APPELLANTS, V. WTLMIAM PINKNEY WHYTE,. ADMINISTRATOR DE
BONIS NON OF JOHN GOODING, DECEASED.
Where the defendant appeared to a bill in chancery, and defended the suit, and no
want of jurisdiction appeared in the record, and then the complainant died, an
objection that the defendants were citizens of another State comes too late when
made to a bill of revivor, which- iar.nly a contiiiuance of the suit.
Moreover; a plea to the jurisdictin -comes too7l.te after a mandate has gone down
-from this-court to the court below.

-THESE -erd cross appeals from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District 6f Maryland, and were argued
together with the preceding-cage by the same counsel.

542

SUPREME COURT.
Whyte v. Gibbes et al.

GbbMe et al. v. Whyte.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of Maryland.
The case in principle is similar to the case of Williams v.
The Executors of Robert Oliver, in which the opinion has just
been delivered, with the exception of a question made upon a
bill of revivor.
The suit was originally brought by John Gooding, jun., administrator de bonis non of the estate of John Gooding, sen.
After the determination of the cause by this court, reversing
the decree below, and sending it back with directions to enter a
decree .for the complainant, and to take an account, the complainant died. Thereupon, Whyte, the present complainant,
was appointed administrator de bonis non, and filed a bill
of revivor of the original suit, and presented a petition to
the court, praying that, as the defendants were residents of
the city of lcw fork, the subpcena may be served upon the
counsel of the defendants in the original suit, which was
granted. The defendants appeared, and filed an answer to the
bill of revivor under protest, and insisted that the court had
not jurisdiction of the original suit, as the complainant in that
suit was a citizen and resident of Virginia, and the defendants
were residents of New York. There does not appear to have
been any order of the court upon the question presented in
this answer; but the cause proceeded before the master, where
it was pending at the time of filing the bill of revivor and answer to the same.
The point is now taken, that as it appears the defendants
were citizens and residents in New York at the time of the
filing of the original bill, and also the bill of revivor, the court
below had no jurisdiction in the case.
The answer to this objection is, that no want of jurisdiction
appeared on the face of the original bill, and the'defendants
appeared and defended the suit; and, as the bill of revivor is
but a continuance of that suit, the residence of the parties at
the time it was filed is altogether immaterial.
This question arose in the case of Clarke v. Matthewson et
al., (12 Peters, 164,) and was decided in conformity with the
rule above stated.
In respect to the other objection, that the court had not jurisdiction in the original suit, we may add, in addition to what
we have said, it comes too late after the mandate has gone
down to the court below. (3 How., 413.)
The decree of the court below affirmed.
Mr. Justice GRILER dissented.

