10&

SUPREME COMIYW.
The Commercial Bank of Manchester v. Buckner.

There is no other specification of fraud, and the general
charges of fraud, unaccompanied by a statement of the facts
constituting the fraud, have no effect or influence.
We are of opinion that there is no error in the record, and
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota Territory is
affirmed.
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF MANCHESTER, COMPLAINANT
APPELLANT, v. HENRY S. BUCKNER.

AND

The Circuit Court of the United States has no power to entertain an original bill
brought by a creditor, who has come in and proved his debt against the bankrupt, for the purpose of annulling or vacating a discharge and certificate in
bankruptcy, obtained in the District Court upon imputations of fraud, done in
contemplation of bankruptcy by the bankrupt; or to give relief, either at law or
in equity, in a suit brought by a creditor who had proved his debt under the
commission, who had assented to the bankrupt's discharge and certificate, and
who had taken a dividend out of the bankrupt's estate.
The District Court, which passed the decree in bankruptcy, can take cognizance
of such a case.
Whether or not such a bill could be filed by a creditor who had not come in and
proved his debt, and who was not a party to the decree in bankruptcy, is a question which the court does not now decide.
Nor has the Circuit Court the power, under its general jurisdiction over frauds, to
give relief either at law or in equity, in a suit brought by a creditor who had
proved his debt under the commission, had assented to the bankrupt's discharge
and certificate, and had taken a dividend out of the bankrupt's estate.
A demurrer only admits facts which are well pleaded.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
It was a bill filed -by the bank upon the equity side of the
Circuit Court, against Buckner, under the circumstances fully
detailed in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Day for the appellant, and by Mr. Bejamin and Y!r. Bayard for the appellee.
Mr. Day filed an elaborate printed argument, consisting of
more than one hundred pages. Of the several points of the
case included in this argument, it is necessary to omit the discussion of the following propositions, viz:

1. Are the charges of fraud sufficient to invalidate the discharge in bankruptcy?
2. The equity side of the court has jurisdiction over the case,
upon the ground of its general jurisdiction over frauds.
3. Whether the case made by the bill is of such a nature and
character as to give equity jurisdiction.
4. Nor does the fact that the fraud from which relief was

DECEMBER TERMK, 1857.

109

The Commercidal Bank of Manchesterv. Buckner.

sought, is fraud in obtaining a judgment in discharge in bankruptcy, at all militate or vest the chancellor of jurisdiction.
Mr. Day then sustained the right of the Circuit Court to
interpose in this case, upon the ground that the discharge in
liankruptcy should be treated as a nullity.
True, a court of equity does not presume to direct or control
a court of law; but, it considers all the equities between the
parties, and acts upon the person of the party seeking against
good conscience to avail himself of an advantage which, under
all the equitable circumstances of the case, it is against conscience for him so to do, and restrains or deprives him of such
advantage. (20 Conn. R., 556; 2 St. Eq., sees. 875, 194; 1
Atk., 630; 1 Sch.'and Lef., 205-'6; 2 P. Wm., 424; 2 Ves.
jun., 135; 3 P. W., 395.)
And so, even at law, (notwithstanding the general rule that
no court, except an appellate one, has authority or power to
set aside the judgmenit of another court of competent jurisdiction, for error or irregularity,) where the main object, as in
this case, is not to annul the judgment of another court, but
simply to avoid the effect of such judgment when it is set up
as a bar, by replying that it was obtained by fraud, the party
has a right to show, in any court, that the judgment was obtained by fraud and imposition, and thus indirectly to treat it
as a nullity. (2 La. R., 139-40; 11 ib., 521; 25 Vt. R., 339; 2
Kernan's Ra.,
165, and auth. cited; 3 Cranch's 1., 300, 307-'8,
310-211; 3 Foster's N. H. I., 535; 3 Sum., 604; Shedden v.
Patrick, 28 Eng. L. and Eq. R., 56, and the numerous cases
cited by counsel on page 60; 72 Eng. C. L., 513; 15 J. R., 121;
6 Pet., 729-30; Don v. Lipman, 5 Clark and Finn. R., 1, 20,
21; St. Couf. L., sec. 603.)
For if such be not the law, then a party would be allowed
to profit by his own fraud, "a position altogether inadmissible."
(Per Thompson, C. J., in Borden v. Fitch, 15 J. R., 121.)
But, be ,this as it may on general principles, yet, according to
the express provisions of the bankrupt act, it is competent for
any court to treat the discharge and certificate, when interposed
as a barrier to prevent a recovery on a pre-existing demand, as
null and void, whenever the fraud is shown. (5 U. S. Stat.,
443-'4; 8 Ired. N. C. R., 142; Mabry et a]. v. Herndon, 8 Alab.
R., 848, 864; 11 Humphrey's R., 289; 3 Dess. R., 269-'70; 3
Cranch R., 300, 307; 9 Ga. R., 9, 14, 15; 15 Alab. Ra., 553-'4;
2 Zab. I., 541; 25 Vt. R., 339. See also Robt. Fraud. Cony.,
520; 1 Dall., 380 1 Bin. R., 263; 3 Har. and J., 13; 6 ib., 82;
5 Bin. R., 247.)
Fraud vitiates everything into which it enters. It is like
the deadly and noxious simoom of aid and desert climes. It

110

SUPREME COURT.
The Commercial Bank of Manchester v. Buckner.

prostrates all before its contaminating touch, and leaves death
only and destruction in its train. No act, however solemn,
no agreement, however sacred, can resist its all-destroying
power.
All acts into which fraud enters are nullities.
Neither a bonafide debt nor an actual advance of money will
sustain a security infected with fraud. (Per Sandford, Chancellor, 2 Sandf. Ch. R., 631.)
In the case of Downer v. Rowell, (25 Vt. R., 339,) the Supreme Court of Vermont, in construing the bankrupt act,
says: "The statute in effect declares, that in case the discharge
and certificate were superinduced by fraud, they may be impeached on that ground, as being null and void."
And if a judgment is null and void, it is the same thing as
thougha it had never been rendered, and is "unavailable for any
purpose," (Per Thompson Oh. J., in Borden v. Fitch, 15 J. R.,
140; 11 S. and Mar. R., 464; 11 La. R., 533; 11 Eng. Ch. R.,
448-'9;) and may be collaterally disallowed and disregarded.
j Slocum v. Wheeler, 1 Day's Con. R., 429, 449; 6 How. Miss.
,., 285; 8 Sm. and Mar. R., 519.)
Such being the law, then, there can be no ground for saying
that the discharge and certificate should have been annulled
by a direct action, instituted for that purpose, in the bankrupt
court. (2 Kernan's ER., 166; 8 Alab. R., 855, 864.)
Indeed, it has been held, by high authority, that the District
Court never had any jurisdiction to entertain such a proceeding.(Mabry et al. v. Herndon, 8 Alab. R., 855.)
But if it could be shown, or was conceded, that the bankrupt act gave such jurisdiction to that court, yet, as the act has
been unconditionally repealed, with no saving clause in the
repealing act, except for the purpose of finally completing and
determining causes then pending, the District Court is clearly
without any jurisdiction for such a purpose. (4 Seld. R., 265.)
For the law is well settled, that whenever a statute from which
a court derives its jurisdiction is repealed, the jurisdiction of
the court is gone, even as to suits then pending, except so far
as it is expressly saved by the repealing act, and that the
original act conferring jurisdiction is to be regarded as though
it had never existed. (Dwarris on Stat., 676; Miller's Case, 1
Win. Blak. R., 451; 4 Yeates R., 394; 5 Cranch, 281; 11 Pick.,
350; 21 Pick., 373; 1 Hill, 324; 5 Blackf. R., 195; 15 Con.
R., 242; 4 Humph. R., 427; 4 Seld. R., 265, 269.)
No action of nullity, then, was or could by any possibility
be necessary t6 entitle the complainants to recover, either at
law or in equity, on their original demands.
Nor was it at all necessary to apply to the District Court

D1ECEMBER TERM, 1857.

111

2%he
Commercial Bank of Mfanchester v. .Buckner.

for leave to impeach the discharge and certificate. Chief Justice lRuffin, in 8 Ired. R., 142, says it is the duty of the court
"to hold a discharge obtained by fraud as ineffectual and void,
whenever the fraud shall appear. The remedy of the creditor
is not an application to the court of bankruptcy, upon the gTonfd
of fraud newly discovered, but by replying the fraud of the
bankrupt to the plea of discharge, so as thereby to avoid the
bar." And the same doctrine is laid down by the Supreme
Court of Alabama, in 8 Alab. R., 864.
In Sims v. Slocum, (8 Cranch, 800, 807,) Chief Justice Marshall says: "When the person who has committed the fraud
attempts to avail himself of the act, so as to discharge himself
from a previously-existing obligation, or to acquire a benefit,
the judgment thus obtained is declared void as to that purpose.
And in Mabry et a]. v. Herndon, (8 Alab. R., 856-77,) Chief
Justice Collier, also, -in an elaborate opinion, said: "Thus we
see, that although the statute contemplated a boon to the debtor,
viz: a release from indebtedness, it exacted, on his part, perfect integrity in yielding up everything that was liable to his
debts. Ift
this was not done, but something was wilfully withheld to which the creditors were entitled, the fact of concealment is-denounced as a fraud; and upon its being made known,
the court was required to refuse its sanction to the bankrupt's
discharge. And if the proceedings are formally consummated
by a final decree, and a certificate conseaiuent thereupon, it is
competent for any court of judicature, -upon the fraud being
established, to treat the certificate as a nullity." (See also
Mitf. Eq. Pl., 239.)
The Supreme Court of Tennessee, in the case of Gupton v.
Connor, (11 Humph. R., 289,) well says: "If the fraud appear
pending his suit against his creditors, no decree of discharge
could be made. t it appear afterwards, its effect is to annul
and destroy the discharge and certificate, as though they had
never been obtained."
And in Cogburn & Powell v. Spence" & Elliott, (15 Alab. R.,
558-'4,) the Supreme Court of Alabama very truly remarks:
" The bankrupt act does not intend, nor in any manner undertake to restrain a creditor who has a cause of action against a
bankrupt, from sueing him, although the bankrupt may have
obtained his final certificate of discharge. It only gives the
bankrupt a complete defence against the cause of action when
sued. That the, whole scope of the act was to furnish the
bankrupt with a complete defence to suits brought against him,
is still more apparent from the fact that the certificate is not a
bar, if the debt is of a fiduciary character, or if the discharge

SUPREME COURT.
The Commercial Bank of Mfanchester v. Buckner.

be obtained by fraud. The act, therefore, only intends to arm
the bankrupt with a perfect defence against all debts discharged
by the cdrtificate obtained in pursuance of the act. The creditor may, however, sue on his demand; otherwise, he could not
dispute the bonafid.s of the certificate, and the bankrupt must
rely on his certificate in bar of the suit."
Chancellor Desaussure, too, in Lowe v. Blake, (3 Dess., 269,
270,) in relation to an insolvent discharge, uses this strong and
forcible language: "That in case there was any fraud or concealment in obtaining this discharge, this court is not bound
to give effect to the discharge obtained in any other court.
That it is essential to the jurisdiction of this court to detect
fraud, and. to prevent its having its intended effect; and even
formal judgments at law cannot resist its all-searching power;
and when the frauds on which they have been obtained are
exposed, sach judgments are decreed to be nullities. If the
discharge was obtained by fraud or concealment, it was a mere
nullity, like every other judgment or sentence of a court obtained by fraud or surreptitiously."
So in. Card v. Walbridge and others, (18 Ohio, 411, 423,)
which is a case directly in point it being a bill to subject certain property to the payment of certain debts, and to have the
certificate of bankruptcy declared void, as having been obtained
in fraud of the law, the court, in sustaining the jurisdiction, says:
"The great question in the case is one of fraud, which has to
be established before the complainant can proceed one step in
his cause, and comes within the original powers of a court of
chancery."
"The appropriate remedy," (says Chancellor Walworth, Alcott v. Avery, 1 Barb. Ch. R., 347, 352,) "of the complainant in
this court, where he wishes to contest the validity of the defendant's discharge subsequent to the decree, and to obtain satisfaction of the decree out of subsequently-acquired property, is
to file a supplemental bill, stating the obtaining of the decree,
the alleged or pretended discharge of the defendant, under the
bankrupt act, subsequent to such decree, and the fraud of the
defendant which renders the alleged discharge invalid; and
praying that the decree may be carried into full effect against
the defendant and his property, notwithstanding his pretended
discharge." (See also 9 Ga. R., 9, 14.)
The counsel for the defendant thus stated the point on which
the decision of the court turned:
1. The District Court has exclusive jurisdiction to impeach
the decree of discharge in bankruptcy, or recall the certificate.
It may adjourn any point arising in any case in bankruptcy to

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

113

The CommerciaZ Bank of Manchester v. Buckner.

the Circuit Court, but the latter has no jurisdiction of an original bill to annul or avoid the decree of the District Court, as
prayed for in this suit, though the Circuit Court would, as well
as a State court, have jurisdiction to inquire into the validity
of the discharge if pleaded in bar and impeached for fraud, or
its effect if a subsequent express promise of payment by the
bankrupt were alleged.
The bankrupt proceedings are in the nature of proceedings
in rem, and not subject to collateral .inquiry in another than the
court which decreed the discharge. (Bankrupt Law of 1841,
sees. 4 and 6, 5 Stat., 444; Shawhan v. Wherrit, 7 How., 649;
N. Am. Ins. Co. v. Graham, 5 Sandf., 197.)
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The decision which we are about to give would not be satisfactory, unless it'shall be preceded by a statement of the facts
of he case as they. aie disclosed by the pleadings. We shall
adopt that which was given- by the counsel who argued the
cause, with but little alteration or addition.
The appellants allege, in their bill, that during the years 1841
and 1842, the defendant, Henry S. Buckner, together with M.
B. Hamer, who died in 'April, 1842, and Frederick Stanton,
were partners in trade, doing commercial business in New Orleans, under the firm of. Buckner, Stanton, & Co., Buckner
beiug the resident partner there; and in Natchez under the
firm of Stanton, Buckner, & Co., Stanton conducting it; and
at Yazoo city under the firm of M. B. Hamer & Co., Hamer
being the resident partner at that place. The three firms were
distinct and separate, and kept their books and accounts accordingly. It is alleged that the three firms and the three members
of them became hopelessly insolvent in the year 1841, and that
they continued to transact business together until Hamer's
death; that after his death the two survivors carried on the
business of the three firms until their bankruptcy. On the
21st July, 1842, Stanton filed his petition in the United States
District Court for the southern district of Mississippi, both individually and as a member of the three firms, 'was decreed a
bankrupt on the 8th November, 1842, and received his certificate of discharge on the 21st February, 1843. On the 18th
July, 1842, Buckner made a similar application to the District
Court in New Orleans, was decreed a bankrupt on the 5th September, 1842, and received his certificate of discharge on the
5th December, 1842. It is also said that their applications for
their discharges in bankruptcy were made by Buckner and
Stanton in concert, with a view to future business.
It appears at the time of these applications they were indebted
I voL. xx.
8

114

SUPREME COURT.
The Commercial Bank of Nanchester v. Buckner.

to the appellants in the sum of $49,020.14, besides interest,
on twelve promissory notes and on one bill of exchange, all
which had become due in January, 1842. Three of them were
payable on or before the 6th January, 1839; three others on
the 3d April, 1839; four on or before the 3d March, 1841; and
the last in the month of January, 1842, six months before Buckner filed his petition in bankruptcy. Buckner acknowledged
the indebtment in his schedule filed with his petition in bankruptcy. The complainants proved a portion of their claim in
the bankruptcy proceedings of Stanton. It is admitted that
they received a small dividend from the assets of the firm; but
they aver they did so in ignorance of the frauds upon the bankrupt law, committed by Tuckner and Stanton, of which they
knew nothing until the year 1853, when they discovered the
frauds. And they further allege that they would not have
proved their claim, nor have'received a dividend, if they had
known the frauds; and they assert that the certificates of discharge are null and void, by reason of the frauds.
It is then stated in the bill that the three firms had existed
before 1837, in which year they suspended payment, buttbat
they never recovered from their embarrassments, though they
had resumed business. It is again alleged that their affairs
were hopeless in 1841, and that executions on judgments obtained against Stanton as a member of the firm were in that
year returned nulla bona.
That all the indebtment of the firms which made them insolvent was due prior to the 1st March, 1842, at which time the
frauds began. That then, Buckner and Stanton had agreed
that they would take the benefit of the bankrupt law, and, in
conteml-,Iation of doing so, committed the fraud stated in the

bill.
Tn elve different charges of fraud are specified, all of them
being payments to preferred creditors, in fraud of the general
-reditors-contrary to the provisions of the act of the 19th
August, 1841. No charge of any other fraud is made, except
a transfer of some property in New Orleans, upon the understanding that Buckner was to have the right to redeem it on
payment of the debt, and that the arrangement had secured
for him an ultimate profit, in fraud of creditors. They also
say, that it was because of the fraud of Buckner and Stanton
in concealing a knowledge of the facts from them, that they
were induced to believe the discharges valid; and so they did
not proceed to enforce their, claims at law or in equity, but that
they had found them out only within two years. How or from
what source they had made the discovery they do not state distinctly, though to support the charge they file an exhibit of

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

If5"-

The Commercial Bank of Nancheter v. Buckner.

notes discounted for Stanton, Buckner, & Co., by the Commercial Bank of latchez, which were applied to their credit, and
a list of protested notes of Stanton, Buckner,, & Co., taken up
by them in May, 1842-two months before Stanton filed his
petition in bankruptcy. Two letters from Stanton to Stephen
Duncan-one of them dated at Nfatchez, on the 14th August,
1842, and the other on the 14th September, 1842-are made
exhibits; both relate to the affairs of the firm, and to particular
transactions of them, which the appellants allege were frauds
committed by Stanton and Bucknerj, in giving preferences to
certain creditors, in contemplation of bankruptcy. And they
'farther declare, that since the bankruptcy of Stanton and Buckner, the books of Stanton, Buckner, & Co., had, by some means,
passed into the possession~of Buckner; that if produced, the
fraudulent preferences which had been made would be shown,
and that they would also disclose other fraudulent preferences
made by Stanton for himself and the firm of Stanton,'Buckner,
& Co., in: the spring and-summer of 1842, in contemplation of
bankruptcy.
The bill is .closed with a prayer that the first decree of the
District Court, discharging Buckner, should be declared void
and of no validity, as fai as the rights of the complainants, as
set forth in the bill, could be affected by it, and that Buckner
should be perpetually enjoined from setting it up against their
rights; and that Buckner should be adjudged to pay them the
original sum due by him, with interest thereon; to which is
added a -pray.er for general relief.
The defendant demurred to the bill, and, for causes of demurrer, says:
I That the said complainants have not, by their said bill,
made such a case as entitles this court to entertain jurisdiction
of this cause under the Constitution and laws of the United,
States.
IT. That the said complainants have not, by the said bill,
made such a case as entitles this court.to entertain jurisdiction)*
or grant relief in equity; the remedy of complainants, if any
'they, have, being at law, and not in equity.
II. That the said complainants having, by their own show"ingin said bill, made proof of their claims, *andreceived dividends thereon, in the bankruptcy proceedings which resulted
in the discharge of this defendant, are not permitted by law to
inipeach the validity of said discharge in manner and fQrm as
sought by said bill; and having been parties and privies to th6
judgment of discharge in favor of this defendant, ar6 forever
precluded in law from contesting the validity and effect of

116

SUPREME COURT.
The Commercial Bank of gancheterv. Buckner.

said judgment, on any such grounds as are alleged in said
bill.
IV. That the said complainants have not, by the said bill,
alleged any cause sufficient in law to authorize this court to
set aside the decree of discharge in bankruptcy in favor of this
defendant, rendered by the District Court of the United States,
as set forth in said bill.
V. That the said complainants, by the allegations of said
bill, show that the claims held by them, if they ever were due
to them by this defendant, have become discharged by lapse
of tine, and barred by the statute of prescription and limitation.
VI. That -the said complainants, by the allegations of said
bill, show such laches as by the principles and rules of equity
deprives them of any right to claim relief or remedy in this
court.
VII. That the said complainants have not, by the showing
contained in their said bill, made out a case entitling them to
relief either at law or in equity.
Wherefore this respondent demands the judgment of this
honorable court, whether he shall be compelled to make any
other or further answer to the said bill, or any of the matters
and things therein contained, and prays to be hence dismissed
with his reasonable costs in this behalf sustained.
(Signed)
BENJAMIN, BRADFORD, & FINNEY, Solicitors.
I certify that, in my opinion, the foregoing demurrer is well
founded in point of law.
(Signed)
J. T. BENJAMIN, of Counsel.
Henry S. Buckner, being duly sworn, deposes that the foregoing demurrer is not interposed for delay.
(Signed)
HENRY S. BUCKNER.
Sworn to and subscribed before me, this 1st of October, 1855.
(Signed)
J. W. GuRLEY, Commissioner.
The stating part of the bill of the complainants, their prayer
for relief, and the demurrer of the defendant, suggest that our
first point of inquiry in this case should be into the power of
the Circuit Courts of the United States to entertain an orioinal
bill, to annul or vacate a decree discharging a bankrupt, either
in whole or in part, for any of those frauds-upon the act of the
1st August, 1841, which would prevent the bankrupt from
receiving a discharge. No such jurisdiction is given by the
act to the Circuit Courts. The jurisdiction of these courts

DECEMBER TERMA

1857.

117

The Commercida Bank of Atanchater v. Buckner.

under the act exists in three cases: First, when a question has
been adjourned into a Circuit by the District.:Court, under the
6th section of the act. Second, by appeal, as that is given,
under the 4th section, to the bankrupt, when a majority of his
creditors in number and vafue, 'who shall have proved their
debts, shall file their written dissent from his discharge. Third,
the jurisdiction given to the Circuit Courts by the 8th section,
in suits by an assignee of the bankrupt, against any person
claiming an adverse interest, or by such person against the
assignee for property, or rights of property, transferable to or
vested in the assignee under the act. If we cannot find such
a jurisdiction in the Circuit Courts in the act of 1st August,
1841, it is in vain to look for it elsewhere, for the purposes for
which this bill has been brought.
The inquiry then must be, if the Circuit Court has jurisdi7tion, to annul the decree of the discharge given to the bankrupt by the District Court, for frauds, upon that act, which
would have prevented him from receiving a- discharge and
certificate. In other words, has not the District Court of the
United States, in which the bankrupt's discharge was given,
*andthat court only, the power to inquire, into frauds upon the
act discovered after the bankrupt has received his discharge,
with a view to annul it, and to give to his creditors, who have,
proved their debts, the benefit of the property he may have,
concealed, or the preferences he may have given, or transfers
of property he.may have made in contemplation of bankruptcy?
It seems to us that the jurisdiction given by the 6th section of
the bankruptact to the District Court is plenary and exclusive
for such a purpose. The words of the 6th section are: 'That
the District Court, in every district, shall have jurisdiction, in
all matters and proceedings in bankruptcy arising under this
act, and any other act which may hereafterbe-passed on the
subject of bankruptcy; the said jurisdiction to be exercised
summarily in. the nature of summary proceedings or equity,
'aid for this purpose the said District Court shall be deemed
always open. And the district judge may adjourn any point
or question arising in any case of. bankruptcy into the Circuit
Court for the district, in his discretion, to be there heard and
determined, and for this purpose the Circuit Court of such
'district shall be deemed always open. The jurisdiction hereby
conferred on the District Court shall extend to all cases and
c6ntroversies in bankruptcy arising between the bankrupt and
a'y creditor or creditors who shall claime'any debt or demand
under the bankruptcy; to all cases and controversies between
such creditor or creditors and the assignee of the estate, whether
in'office or removed;. to all cases and controversies between such

SUPREME COURT.
The Commercial Bank of Manchester v. Buckner.

assignee and the bankrupt; and to all acts, matters, andthin , to
be done under and in virtue of the bankruptcy, until the fina distribution and settlement of.the estate of the bankrupt, and the
clos6 of the proceedings in bankruptcy. And the said courts shall
have full authority and jurisdiction to compel obedience to all
orders and decrees passed by them in bankruptcy, by process
of contempt, and other remedial process, to the same extent the
Circuit Courts may here do in a suit pending therein inequity.
And it shall be the duty of the District Cburt, in each district,
from time to time, to prescribe suitable rules and reguiations,
and forms of proceedings, in all matters of bankruptcy; which
rules and regulations and forms shall be subject to be altered,
added to, revised, or annulled, by the Circuit Court of the
same district, and other rules and regulations and forms be
substituted therefor."
Our reflections upon this section as a whole, and particularly
upon that clause or sentence of it which extends the jurisdiction of the court to all controversies between the bankrupt and
a creditor, who shall claim any debt or demand under the bankruptcy-to all cases between creditors and the assignee of the
estate, whether the latter continues in office or has been removed, and to all controversies between the assignee and the
bankrupt-have brought us to the conclusion that it was meant
to give jurisdiction to the District Court, either at the suit of
the assignee or of the creditor, just in such a controversy as
the .complainants have made by their bill; with the powet in
the court, in a suit of either the assignee or the creditor, or
both combined, to inquire into the fraudulent preferences
alleged to have been given by the bankrupt in contemplation
of bankruptcy; and when they shall have been satisfactorily
proved, to revoke the decree of discharge which had been
given to him, to prevent it thereafter from being pleaded as a
bar to any suit which may be brought against him, for any demand which was provable under the act. Or the assignee
alone may sue the bankrupt and his accomplices in theDistrict Court, for any preferences he may have given to creditors
in contemplation of bankruptcy, to'recover the amount of such
preferences, as a part of the bankrupt's estate for distribution
among his creditors who have proved their debts under the
act, and with the additional object of revoking the bankrupt's
discharge by a decree of the court. In either suit for the latter
purpose, the assignees and the creditors who have proved their
debts under the act, may be the parties on the one side, and
the bankrupt and those who conspired with him to commit
the fraud upon the act, sh6uld be made parties on the other.
If it be intended only to recover the ainounts of fraudulent

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
The Commacia Bank, of,3anchester v. Buckner.

preferences', as a part of the bankrupt's estate, the assignee
may sue the bankrupt and those who have received them,_ or
the latter alone, giving to the bankrupt prior reasonable notice,
specifying in writing the fraud or concealment which it is the
object of the suit to investigate, so that he may be present at
the trial to defend himself; or to petition the court to be made
a party defendant to the suit, for the same purpose. And in
such a case, the jurisdiction of the District Court should be
exercised summarilyin the nature of summary proceedings
in equity, such being the direction in the sixth section of the
act, for all proceedings in bankruptcy under it.
These conclusions are verified into unquestionable
certainty,
bill.
bankrupt
by. considering in connection other parts of the
By the third section of it, the property of the bankrupt, of
every kind whatever, from the time of his discharge, by mere
operation of law, is deemed to be divested out of him, and becomes vested by force of the decree in the assignee who may
be appointed for the benefit of such of the bankrupt's creditors.
who have come in and proved their debts, for the purpose of
becoming distributees equally of the bankrupt's estate, to the
exclusion of all creditors who have not done so. Then, by the
second'section, the amount of preferences which may have been
given in contemplation of bankruptcy, are declared to be a part
of the bankrupt's estate. It i' the duty of the assignee to sue
for them, and the bankrupt who has made them, when they
have been proved, cannot be allowed a dischargeunder the pro=
visions-of the act. And that this disability to receive a discharge
was meant to apply prospectively to preferences which might
be given, and retroactively to such as had been given in contemplation of bankruptcy, or to such preferences, whether
given before the decree of discharge or after it, is manifest from
the whole language of the fourth section, particularly that part
which makes a bona fide surrender by the bankrupt of all his
property and rights of property, for the benefit of his-creditors,
one of the prerequisites of his being discharged from all of his
debts; and declares, that if the bankrupt shall be guilty of any
fraud or wilful concealment of. his property or rights of property, or shall have preferred any of his creditors, contrary to the
provisions of the act; or, if he admits a false and fictitious
debt against his estate, that he shall not be entitled'to such discharge or certificate. Further, the 5th section declares, that
no creditor or other person, coming in and proving his debt oi
other claim, shall be allowed to maintain any suit at law or in
equity therefor, but shall be deemed thereby to have waived all
right of action and suit against such bankrupt; which, while
it excludes such a creditor from bringing a suit at law or in

120

SUPREME COURT.
The Commercial Bank of Manchesterv. Buckner.

equity in any other court for his original debt, which had been
proved against the bankrupt, cannot be construed to mean
that he could not resort to.the District Court, which had been
deceived into granting the discharge, for the purpose of investigating the frauds which may have been committed by the
bankrupt before a discharge had been granted to him, but not
discovered until afterwards; and for the further purpose of
obtaining from the District Court an annulment of the discharge
which had been obtained from it by perjqry and fraud. In this
we do not differ from the counsel of the complainants, for much
of his argument was intended to show that the creditors of a
bankrupt are not without a remedy for frauds committed by
him, but not discovered until after he had received his certificate of discharge. That was the case of Haxton v. Corse, (2
Bar. Ch., 507,) decided by Chancellor Walworth. The chancellor's language is, that he could not conclude, "notwithstanding the general language contained in the fifth section of the
act, that the creditors who come in and prove their debts shall
not be allowed to maintain any suit at law or in equity therefor, and that the law-makers did not intend that the proving
of debts by creditors should be an absolute abandonment of
all claim against the future acquisitions of their debtor, if his
discharge was refused, or if it was void for any of the frauds
specified in the act." W¢e admit the principle, that creditors
so circumstanced have a. remedy, but not that they may use it
in any suit at law or in equity in the Circuit Court. The
bankrupt law has given to the District Court a plenary and
exclusive jurisdiction in all matters and proceedings in bankruptcy. We say plenary and exclusive jirisdiction in the District Court. This court has said so in Shawhan et al. v. Wherritt, (7 How., 643.) Besides, on the authority of the same case,
we say, as all the proceedings in all cases in bankruptcy are
made matters of record by the thirteenth section, that a party
to one of them cannot be permitted to impeach it collaterally in
another suit in another court, brought by him there to recover
from the bankrupt his original debt, whilst he continues to
occupy his relation to the assignee and the bankrupt, under
the discharge of the latter, as one of the creditor distributees
of his estate. The District Court has by the act plenary and
exclusive jurisdiction of the matter, and no other court can
annul the decree of the bankrupt's discharge, either partially,
for the benefit of a particular creditor, or wholly, to deprive
the bankrupt of its operation.
This we say, with direct reference to the parties in this suit,
who were parties to the decree of the bankrupt's discharge,
who proved their debts, and who have taken a dividend from

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
The Commercial Bank of Manchester v. Buckner.

his estate. We do not mean to say anything of the Circuit
Court's jurisdiction in a suit brought-by a creditoi who had not
come in and proved his debt, and who is not a party to the decree in
bankruptcy. These are points which will no doubt be well considered by counsel before a suit shall be brought; directly in
connection with the power given to such a creditor to impeach
the discharge, when the bankrupt shall plead it in bar of a suit.
But the manner of bringing such'a suit by such a creditor, how,
when, or in what court, it should be brought, we shall not de,ide until such a case shall be brought regularly here for adjudication.
We will now consider another point in the case, necessarily
arising from the frame of the bill, which was argued -by the
counsel for the complainants, with some earnestness. It is,
whether the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the subject-matterbf
the bill, on account of the frauds alleged against the defendant.
The complainants, in their bill, state minutely the original
indebtment of the bankrupt to them, particularize the fraudulent preferences he had given to other creditors in contemplation of bankruptcy, admit that they -were palties to the bankrupt's discharge, and had taken a dividend; and then they ask
for the intervention of the Circuit Court in equity, to set aside
the bankrupt's discharge as to them, because it had jurisdietion,
in cases of fraud; and that it vould adjudge, that the defendants shall pay to them their original debt, with interest, ou.
account of their ignorance of the frauds of which they complain, until within two years before they brought their bill.
And for the same cause they say, that they had not brought
their action at law upon their original cause of the defendant's
indebtment.
'The bill of the complainants, then, is a suit to recover from
the defendant the debt which they had proved in bankruptcy.
It has generally been thought, and has been frequently decided
judicially, that the fifth section of the bankrupt act was a bar
to a suit where a party proves his, claim and takes a dividend.
In England, though such suits were attempted in the earlier
administration of her bankrupt laws, such an action would not
be thought of now for a moment. The words of our -statute
are, "and no creditor or other person, coming in and proving
his debt or other claim, shall be allowed t3 maintain any suit
at law or in equity therefor,but shall be deemed thereby to have
waived all right of adtion and suit against such bankrupt; and
all proceedings already commenced, and all unsatisfied. judgments ah'eady obtained thereon, shall be deemed to be surrendered thereby.' How, then, can it be, that a creditor, coming in and proving his debt and receiving a dividend, can be

122

SUPREME COURT.
The Commercial Bank of ancheater v.Buckner.

allowed to sue the bankrupt for it afterwards, either at law
or in equity, when it ig declared, in positive and unmistakable
words, that if the creditor, before proving his debt, had commenced an action for it, or had obtained a j udgment for it, he
shall be deemed to have surrendered it, and to have waived all
right of action and suit, either in law or in equity, against such
bankrupt, for the debt which he has proved? It cannot be
done; and the disability of such a creditor to sue the bankrupt
is in perfect harmony with every other part of the statute of
the 19th August, 1841, and with all the rights of creditors
which are meant to be secured by it.
Moreover, the exclusion of such a creditor to sue the bankrupt, is sustained by all of the decisions in the courts of England upon the statutes of bankruptcy. "
Lord Hardwicke said, in ex parte Groome, 1 Atk., 119-when
such a right was claimed by a creditor upon a similar provision
in the statute of George If, chap. 30, see. 7, (by no means so
expressive as that just cited from the act of the 19th August,
1841)-" I think that the privilege of creditors to come in, and
of bankrupts to be discharged from debts, is coextensive and
commensurate, and very equitable, for it would otherwise make
an irregularity among the creditors; for a creditor whose debt
was due before the taking out of the commission shall, perhaps,
have more than five shilling; in the pound; and the creditor
whose debt was not- due till a second distribution shall come
in and have as much as the other creditor, and likewise have
a remedy open to him for the rest against the bankrupt."
Therefore a creditor shall not prove his debt, receive a dividend, and proceed afterwards in an action at law against the
bankrupt. In such cases in England, the creditor is put to his
election, whether he will come in and prove his debt, or pursue
his remedy at law. With us, he has the same privilege. In
exparte Goodwin, 1 Atk., 152, Lord Hardwicke said: "This
court will not suffer a petitioning creditor to arrest a'bankrupt,
and for this reason-because a commission of bankruptcy is
considered both as an action and an execution in the first instance; and after the petitioning creditor had laid hold of all
of the bankrupt's effects, it would be a great absurdity for the
same person to be permitted to arrest him likewise." Inregard
to the creditor having made an election, his Lordship ruled, in
ex parte Ward, 1 Atk., 153, that a petitioning creditor determines
his election by taking out a commission, and cannot sue the
bankrupt at law, though fora debt distinct from what he proved.
In ex parte Ward, 1 Atk., 153, it was also ruled that a petitioning creditor's right of election does not exist after the bankrupt has received his certificate; and when the creditor has

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

. 12a

Me Commercd Bank of Manchesterv. Buckner.

already proceeded at law, he is not at liberty to come in and
prove his debt under the commission, without relinquishing his
proceedings at law, unless by order of the great seal, for the
purpose of giving his assent or dissent to the certificate. In
Capon's case, 1 Atk., 219, Lord Hardwicke-declared, "it was
by no means to be done that a creditor was to receive a proportionable benefit under the commission, and still pursue the
bankrupt's person at law ;" and-he would not permit the creditor, in that case, who had proceeded at law after he had received two dividends, to assent to or dissent from the bankrupt's certificate, until he had refunded the dividends he had
taken under the commission. In Lindsay's case, 1 Atk., 220,
lie petitioned to be discharged from a commitment at the suit
of his creditor, Henkle, who had proved his debt. The Lord
Chancellor said the creditor must either waive his proof under
the commission, or make his election to proceed under it; but,
notwithstanding, if he elects to proceed at law, he may still
assent or dissent to the certificate.
In Dorvillier's case, his creditor had proved a debt for *800
under the commission, and being the majority in value of all
the creditors, had chosen himself assignee, as he had the right
to do under the statute. He brought an action at law for the
debt which he had proved against the bankrupt. The bankrupt, petitioned that his creditor should make his election to
proceed under the commission or to proceed at law. The Lord
Chancellor doubted whether, by choosing himself assignee,
was not making an election; but upon the creditor's having
elected to proceed at law, he.discharged him as a creditor under
the commission,-but still allowed him to assent or dissent to
the bankrupt's certificate.,
In Aylott v. Harford &Richards, bail of Lowe, 2 Blackstone's
Reports, 1-817, the creditor had proved his debt under the commission, and had voted in the choice for' assignees, and ha'
subsequently made an agreement with the bankrupt that he
should keep open his hotel for business., The bankrupt'abr
sconded. The creditor brought an action, against the bail of
the bankrupt, coIntending that, as Lowe had absconded, he had
forfeited the protection of his commission, and .that the bail
was to follow the fate of his principal. .De Gr6y,-!J. J.,,refused
to fix the bail, and said, there are pdme instances inl.whieh the
Court of Chancery permits a creditor to do Certain acts, sucb ,
as proving his debt and voting for ass'gnees, without ,binding
him to come under ,the 'commission and renounce his ]egaI
remedy. But the plaintiff has gone much further, especially
by the transaction of the 25th of August. He has made his
election, has acquiesced une r the, commission, and he shall

124

SUPREME COURT.
The Commercial Bank of Manchester v. Buckner.

not, on a subsequent unforeseen event, at the distance of twelve
months, desert the commission, and come on the bail by surprise. (White ex parte, 2 Ves. Rep., 9; 2 Bro. C. C., 114.)
These citations, then, show how the comprehensive equity
of Lord Hardwicke, upon an indefinite statute of George II,
anticipated the more perfect legislation of 49 George tl, c.
121, s.14, and that of 6 George 'v, c. 16, s. 59, upon the same
-subject.
The first provides, "that after the 29th June, 1809, it shall
not be lawful for any creditor, who has or shall have brought
any action or instituted any suit against any bankrupt in respect
of any demand which arose, prior to the bankruptcy, or which
might have been proved as a' debt under the commission, to
prove a debt under such commission for any purpose whatever,
or to have the claim of debt entered upon the proceedings
under such commission, without relinquishing such action, a
suit, and all benefit from the same; and that the proving or
claiming a debt under a commission by any creditor shall be
deemed an election by such creditor to take the benefit of
such commission with respect to the debt so proved or claimed
by him." The statute of George IV is, "that no creditor who
has brought an action or instituted a suit for a demand arising
prior to the bankruptcy, or which might have been proved,
shall prove a debt or enter a claim for it, without relinquishing
such action or suit, and all benefit from the same, the proving
a debt or entering a claim to be deemed an election." Our
statute is as comprehensive as either of those, and was taken
from them, though not expressed in the same words. Indeed,
the three are an embodiment of the decisions of the courts
which were made from Lord ITardwicke's time in the administration of the bankrupt law; and the construction of the
English statutes in their courts since has been in conformity
with the earlier decisions.
In Adames v. Bridge, (8 Bingh. Rep., 314,) in an action of
debt upon a bond, in which a rule nisi had been obtained 'to
stay proceedings commenced in 1831, it appeared by an affidavit that the defendant had been a bankrupt in 1816, and that
the plaintiff had elected to prove under the commission sued
out at that time. Tindall, C. J., ruled that plaintiff, having
proved under a commission of bankruptcy in 1818, was estopped
to sue for the same debt after the passing of 6 George IV, c.
16, though that repeals 49 George III, c. 121, and makes proof
of a debt an election not to sue. The Chief Justice added, the
fallacy in the argument is in considering the election to prove
as an incomplete act. It was a complete act to effect a discontinuance, and after such a lapse of time, the rule must be dis-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

125

Teller et al. v. Patten et al.

charged with costs. In some of its features, that case is not
unlike that which we have been considering.
Joseph ex parte (18 Ves., 340) establishes the same principle; also, Dickson, (1 Rose, 98;) Boslock's case, (1 Dea. and
Chit.,) the same. A like interpretation has been given to the
fifth section of the act of 19th August, 1841, by Chief Justice.
Tenney, (in 31 Maine Rep., 192) in the case of Humphrey and
Small, and by Mr. Justice Hardy, in the case of Buckner &
Stanton v. Calcote, (in 28 Miss., 390.) Both are able constructions of the statute of the 19th August, 1841, from the statute
itself, and they command our entire assent.
Our conclusions in this case are, that the Circuit Courts of
the United States have not jurisdiction to annul or vacate the
discharge and certificate in bankruptcy obtained in the District
Court, upon imputations of fraud done in contemplation of
bankruptcy by the bankrupt; or to give relief, either at law
or in equity, in a suit brought by a creditor who had proved
his debt under the commission, who had assented to the bankrupt's discharge and certificate, and who has taken a dividend
out of the bankrupt's estate. These conclusions relieve the
case of all difficulty, and make it unnecessary for us to discuss
any of the other points which were made by counsel on either
side in the argument.
We add a word more. It was frequently urged in the argument, by the counsel for the complainants, that the demurrerof the defendant was a confession of the frauds alleged in.the
bill, and that therefore the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to
give relief.
Our view of that demurrer is different. It is only a confeSsion of all facts well pleaded, but in this bill none were so; the
power of the court to give relief, and of the complainants to
bring a suit, either at law or in equity, for the original debtwhich they had'proved in bankruptcy, having been mistaken.
The dismission of the bill by the court below is affirmed..
* Mr. Justice XELSON concurs' in the result of the opinion
of the court in this case.

THOMAS W. SWINNEY, PLAINTIFFS IN
JAMES B. TELL-R Ai
ERROR, V. JONATHA T. PATTEN AND JOHN J. LANE.
Where the question before the jury was, whether or not one of the defendants was
a partner in a commercial firm, it was proper for the court to exclude the declarations made by the defendant in the absence of the plaintiffs.

