22

SUPREME COURT.
Bacon et al. v. Howard.

The remaining questions in the case relate to those arising
upon the survey and location of the premises in question. This
survey and location were made by the Government surveyor,
under -the direction of the alcalde and land commissioner of
the municipality, who was deputed by the Governor to cause
the land to be surveyed, and to convey the title in due form.
The counsel for the defendants claimed the right to inquire
into the regularity of this survey and location, and also into
the bonafides of the transaction.
It must be remembered that this is a suit at law to recover
the possession of the land in dispute; and that, although it
may be the course of practice in the courts of the State of Texas,
in a suit of-this description, to blend in the proceeding the
principles of law and equity, in the Federal courts sitting in
the State, the two systems must be kept distinct and separate.
This principle is fundamental in these courts, and cannot be
departed from. The court, therefore, in a suit at law, should
exclude the hearing and determination of all questions that belong appropriately and exclusively to the jurisdiction of a court
of equity. In a case calling for the interposition of this court,
uzan turning upon equitable considerations, relief should be
sought by bill in equity. Many of the cases at law coming
up from the District Court of this State are greatly complicated
and embarrassed, from the want of the observance of this distinction in the proceedings before it. In respect to the survey
and location in the case before us, we perceive no ground that
could warrant the court in going behind them in a suit at law.
They were made by the Government that granted the title, and
there is no ground, or even pretence, for saying that they were
made without authority; and hence, altogether void. If voidable, for' irregularity or other cause, the question was not one
for a court of law in ar action to recover possession, but for a
court of equity to reform any error or mistake. :(9 Peters, 632;
13 ib., 368-'9; 3 Wh., 212, 221; 7 How., 844.) We think a
satisfactory answer might be given to the several objections
taken to the survey and location; but we prefer to place it
upon the ground above stated.
The judgment of the court below affirmed.
JOHN BACON, ALEXANDER SYMINGTON, AND THOMAS ROBINS,
COMPLAINANTS AND APPELLANTS, V. VOLNEY E. HOWARD.
By the laws of the Republic of Texas, no action would lie on a foreign judgment,
and all actions of debt were prescribed in four years.
When about to foriii a Constitution, for the purpose of becoming a State of the
Union, the Legislature passed a-law permitting suits to be brought on foreign
judgments, but limiting them to sixty days when the judgment was of four years
standing and upward.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

23

Bacon et at. v. Howard.
The plaintiffs' bill attempted to avoi tihe effect of the last limitation as to their
judgment, which was more than four years old, on the ground that they lived
more than two thousand miles distant, and could not know of the passage of the
last act within time to prosecute their action.
Held, that the last-mentioned statute conferred a favor, and'was notyetrospective;
and that plaintiffs' action was barred, whether he knew of the act or not.
The Constitution of the United States does not restrain the right of each State to
legislate as to the remedy on suits on judgments in other States.

THis case was an appeal from the District Court of the
United States for the district of Texas.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It wis argued by Mr. H~ae for the'appellants, and Mr. Hughes
for the appellee.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The .complainants are assignees of a judgment obtained by
the Planters' Bank against the defendant, in the State of Mississipi. The charter of the bank has been forfeited. The complainants, as equitable owners of the judgment, demand payment by their bill. ' The judgment claimed' by them is dated
on the 19th of October, 1840, and their bill was filed on the
22d of October, 1850. Anticipating the defence of the statutes
of limitation of Texas, the bill avers. "that, at the time of
passage of the act of Congress of the :Republic of Texas, approved June .28th, 1845, entitled 'An act to authenticate foreig at judgments, and to limit suits the
thereon,'
the defendants
in Philcomplainants
resided i. San Antnio, Texas, and
adelphia-more than 2,000 miles apart; and that Vomplainants
could not, according to the regulr course of the mails, and
with any reaso able diligence, have learned the passage of said
act, and caused suit to be instituted upon the judgment within
sixty days after its passage." The, respondent has demurred
to'the bill, and assigns as a cause of demurrer, among other
reasons, "That the complainants, by thbir own showing, are
barred by the first section of an act entitled ' An act of limitations,' approved February 4, 1841, and also by the fourth section of the act referred to in the bill.".
If this allegation be found correct, it will be unnecessary to
niotice the others.
On the 10th of January, 1841, the Legislatuie of the Republic of Texas enacted, "That no suit, proceeding, judgment or
decree, shall be brought, piosecuted, or sustained, in any court
or judicial magistracy of this Republic, on any judgment- or
decree of any court or tribunal of any foreign nation, State, or
Territory," &c. "But this provision is in no degree to affect
the validity or obligation of contracts, engagements, or pecuni-

24

SUPREME COURT.
Bacon et al. v. Howard.

ary liabilities, originating abroad, or the original evidence, testimony, or proof, to establish the same," &c.
On the 5th of February, 1841, "An act of limitations" was
passed, the first section of which, after prescribing shorter
limitations for other causes of action, declares that "all actions
of debt grounded on any contract in writing shall be commenced and sued within four years next after the cause of such
action, and not after." ,
Without criticising the peculiar expressions used in these
acts, it is obvious that their policy and object was to bar the
prosecution of any claim for money or property at farthest in
four years fvom the time when the right of action first accrued.
Now, the original caus6 of action, on which the judgment in
question was obtained, must have existed or accrued at the
latest on the 19th of October, 1840, when judgment was entered thereon in the court of Mississippi. Counting from that
date, the action would have been barred on the 19th of October, 1844. But assuming that the time-did not commence to
run till the 17th of March, 1841, when the act of 5th February,
1841, is said to have iaken effect, the action was barred on the
17th of March, 1845.
On the 28d of June, 1845, the Congress of the Rapubli gave
-their consent to the annexation of Texas to the United States,
and the Convention which formed the Constitution of the State
met on the 4th of July of the same year.
It would seem that doubts and apprehensions were entertained that, when Texas became a State of the Union, that
section of the Constitution of the United States which prescribed that full faith and credit should be given to the judicial
proceedings of each State might have the effect of reviving the
claims of creditors in other States, on which judgments had
been obtained. To obviate this anticipated difficulty, an act
was passed on the 28th of June, 1845, "To prescribe the mode
of authenticating foreign judgments, and to limit suits thereon." The fourth section of this act provides: "That all foreign judgments, decrees, and adjudications, upon which suit
shAll be brought in the courts of this Republic, should the
same be of four years' standing and upwards, shall be forever
barred and prescribed, unless sued on in sixty days from and
after the passage of this act; those under four and over two
years, unless sued on in six months; and those under two
years, unless sued-on in one year: Prord, the original cause
of action shall remain unimpaired, and may be sued on at the
election of the creditor, subject to prescription." .
At first view, this act might be accused of making a very
curt limitation, and to be retrospective in its operation. But

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

25

Bacon el al. v. Howard.

when it is recollected that it gives a new form of remedy before
denied, and that it only continues the rule of limitation .to
which the cause of action was already subject, and in fact gave
a further grace to the creditor, he has no right to complain.
Giving the complainant in this case the most favorable construction of the act of. limitations of 1841, his cause of action
was barred on the 17th of March, 1845. The act of June,
1845, took away no existing right, but extended the time till
the 27th of August of the same year. It is, therefore, not retrospective in its operation. It. confers a favor, though it be a
small one. The complainants may have failed to take advantage of it, for the reasons set forth in the bill. But the
Legislature has not seen fit to make any saving in the act
in favor of distant creditors, and the court cannot interpolate
it. The Republic of Texas had the power to prescribe such
rules to its own courts as best suited their condition, and their
policy cannot be mistaken. Its accession to the Union had no
effect to annul its limitation laws, or revive rights of action
prescribed by its previous laws as an independent State. It is
true, any legislation which denied that full faith and credit
which the Constitution of the United States requires to be
given to the judicial proceedings of sister States would be ipso
facto annulled after the annexation, on the 29th of December,
1845. Thereafter, the authenticity of a 3adgment in another
State, and its effect, aye to be tested by the Constitution of the
United States and acts of Congress. - But rules ot prescription
remain, as before, in the full power of every State. There is
no clause in the Constitution which restrains this right in each
State to legislate upon the remedy in suits on judgnients of
other States, exclusive of all interference with their merits.
The case of Mc-lmoyle v. Cohen (13 Peters, 812) leaves nothing
further to be said on this subject.
The 20th section of the 7th article of the Constitutiono'f the
State of Texas exhibits the extreme solicitude of her citizens
to prevent any misconstruction of their cherished policy on
this subject.
It declares that "the rights of property and of action which
have been acquired under the Constitution and laws of the
Republic of Texas shall not be divested; nor shall any rights
or actions which have been divested, barred, or declared
null and void, by the Constitution and laws of the Republic of
Texas, be reinvested, revived, or reinstated, by this Constituti6n, but the same shall remain precisely in the situation Which
.they were-before the adoption of this Constitution."
The complainant's cause of action had been twice barred
before annexation, and this section of the new Constitution

26

SUPREME COURT.
Chrizt Church v. The County of.Philadelphia.

leaves no room to question the policy of their laws as to a revival of rights once forfeited by laches.
In- ease like the present, where the complainant has been
compelled to have recourse to a court of chancery, because the
Union Bank no longer exists, in whose name the action of law
coul l be:sustained,he is, of course, subject to the same rules
of prescription as if he were in a court of law.
We are of opinion, therefore, that complainant's cause of
action is barred by the statutes of Texas, and that the matters
set forth in the bill to avoid their effect are insufficient.
The jiudgment of the District Court of Texas is therefore
affirmed, with costs.

THE RECTOR, CHURCH WARDENS, AND VESTRY, OF CHRIST CHURCH,
TIM CITY OF PHILADELPHIA, IN TRUST FOR CHRIST CHURCH
HOSPITAL, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THE COUNTY OF PHILADEI,-

Whre.it does not appea either by express averment or by a necessary intenduent
from any matter stated in the case, nor does any entry on the record of the cause
in the Supreme Court of the State show, that any of the questions of which this
court is entitled to take cognizance under the terms of the 25th section of the
judi.iary act, arose in the cause aid were actually decided by that court, the
.Writ of error must be dismissed, for the want of jurisdiction.

THIs case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Pennsylvania, by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section ,of the judiciary act.
As the decision of the court was, that the record did not
show any ground of jurisdiction -underthe 25th section of the
judiciary act, it will be proper to state what that record was.
The acts of 1833 and 1851 are recited in the opinion of the
dourti, and need not be repeated.

The rector and church wardens were assessed f 9 r taxes upon
several pieces of property, amongst which was the following:
Lower Delaware ward, No. 8 Cherry street, Hospital lot, &c.,

$126.
They paid the tax upon the whole assessment, including the
above, under protest, and then brought an action in the State
court to recover the amount so paid. The court decided in
favor of the defendants. Upoia being carried to the Supreme
Court of the State, that court reversed the judgment of the
court below, so far as respected the tax upon the Hospital lot.
The rector and church wardens, believing that the whole of
the property ought to be exempted from taxation, brought the
case to this court. The question which they intended to raise

