DECEMBER TERM, 1857

427

Suydama v. Wliamn d al.

grantee. The obligation of the United States to this grantee
will be fulfilled by the performance of the executive acts, which
are devolved in the grant on the local authority, and which
are declared in the two conditions before cited. We regard'
these conditions to contain a description of the thing granted,
and, in connection with the other calls of the grant, they enable us to define it. We reject the words "a little more or
less," as having no meaning in a system of location and suirvey
like that of the united States, and that the claim of the grantee
is valid for the quantity clearly expressed. If the limitation
of the quantity had not been so explicitly declared, it might
have been proper to refer to the petition and the diselo, or to
have inquired if the name Capitancillos had any significance
as connected with the limits of the tract, in order to give effect
to the grant. But there is no necessity for additional inquiries. , The grant'is not affected with any ambiguity. The intention of the Government of California is distinctly declared,
and there is no rule of law-to authorize us to depart from
the grant to obtain evidence to contradict, vary, or limit its
import.
The grant to Larios is for oneleague of land, to be taken
within the southern, western, and eastern boundaries designated therein, and which is to be located, at the election of
-the grantee or his assigns, under the restrictions established]
for the location and survey of private land claims in California
by the executive department of this Government. The external boundaries designated in the grant may be declared by
the District Court from the evidence on file, and such other
evidence as may be produced before it, and the claim of an
interest equal to three-fourths of the land granted is conifrmed

to the appellee.
The decree of the District Court is reversed, and the cause
is remanded to that court, with directions to enter a decree
conforming to this opinion.
JAMES H. SUYDAM, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM H. WILLIAMSON, DAVID R. WILLIAMSON, MARY A. WILLIAMSON, ISABELLA WILLIAMSON, CATHERINE B. WILLIAMSON, CHARLOTTE

A. WILLIAMSON,

RUPERT
AND BAYARD CLARKE.

J. COCHRAN, ISABELLA M. COCHRANE,

Rulings of the court below, in admitting or rejecting evidence, can be brought to
this court for revisiop only by a bill of exceptions.
Every special verdict, in order to enable the appellate court to act upon it, must
find the facts on which the court is to pronounce the judgment according to law,
and not merely state the evidence of facts. In this manner it becomes a part of
the record.

428

SUPREME COURT.
Suydam v. Williamson et al.

Where there is a bill of exceptions, the writ of error does not operate only upon
that part of the record. Wherever an error is apparent on the record, it is open
to revision, whether it be made to appear by a bill of exceptions, or in any other
manner.
Where there is no dispute in regard to the facts, and consequently no necessity
for any ruling of the c6urt in admitting or rejecting evidence, the case may be
brought before an appellate cop "fby a special verdict or an agreed statement of
facts.
But in such a case, the previous rulings of the court upon questions of evidence do
not come before the appellate court, unless brought up by a bill of exceptions.
A bill of exceptions may include in its scope the rulings of the court as to the
admissibility of evidence, which a demurrer to evidence cannot do.
A demurrer to evidence makes the evidence a part of the record.
So where oyer of any instrument is prayed, or there is a demurrer to any part of
the pleadings.
A writ of error operates only upon the record, and brings it into this court.
Therefore, where a paper was filed in the court below after the writ of error was
issued, which paper, purporting to contain all the evidence, both admitted and
rejected, was signed by the judge and certified to be correct by the counsel of
the appellee, and concluded as follows: "A verdict was then, by direction of the
court. taken for the plaintiffs for the premises claimed, subject to the opinion of
the court upon the questions of law, with liberty to turn this case into a special
verdict or bill of exceptions," this paper cannot be considered a part of the record.
A special verdict requires the presence and assent of the court, and a bill of exceptions must always be signed and sealed by the judge.
In this ease, the paper is merely a report of the judge who presided at the trial,
and as such must be disregarded by this court.
Under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary aot, where the jurisdiction of this
court is not shown upon the record, the writ of error must be dismissed; but
under the twenty-second section, if no error appears upon the record, the judgment of the court below must be affirmed.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district'of New York.
It was an action of ejectment brought by-the defendants in
error against Suydam to recover two lots of ground in the city
of New York. On the part of the defendants in error, it wa
contended that every material question in the case was adjudged
by this court in the cases of Williamson v. Berry, 8 Howard,
495; Williamson v. The Irish Presbyterian Congregation, 8
Howard, 565; and Williamson v. Ball, 8 Howard, 566. The
counsel for the plaintiff in error alleged that this case was unlike those in several important particulars. But as the decision
of this court turned altogether upon the manner in which the
case had been brought up, it is only necessary to state so much
of it as will illustrate the point of practice.
The record showed a declaration in ejectment, a plea of not
guilty, issue joined, suggestion of the death of some of the
plaintiffs and substitution of their heirs, empannelling of a jury,
their verdict of guilty against Suydam, the case held under a
curia, the judgment for the plaintiffs with costs, and a prayer

429

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Suydam v. Williamwn et al.

for a writ of possession, which was granted. Judgment signed
R. E. STLEwLL,
this 6th day of December, 1854.
.Deyuty Clerk.
Then came the following:
Circuit Court United States, Southern D1strict of New York.
WILLUnMA H. WMLLLMSOX ET AL. V. JAMES H. SUYDAM.

This is an action of ejectment for two lots in the sixteenth
ward of the city of New York. The declaration is in the usual
form; the plea is not guilty. Either party may refer to the
pleadings as part of this case.
The'plaintiff gave in evidence an exemplified copy of the
will, &c., &c., &c.
The plaintiffs thereupon rested.
The defendants' counsel then proved the acts of the Legie.
lature, the deed'of Clement C. Moore, the petitions to the
Legislature and to the chailcellor, the master's reports, the
orders of the chancellor; the-extracts from the journals of the
two Houses, of which copies are hereto annexed; these were
all objected to by the plaintiffs' counsel, and were read subject
to the objection.
The defendants' counsel then offered in evidence a deed from
Thomas B. Clarke to Peter McIntyre, of which the following
is a copy, &c., &c., &c.
The plaintiffs' counsel then offered to prove1st. That the acts of the Legislature were -not for the benefit
of the infants, but for the benefit of Thomas B. Clarke merely.
2d. That the orders of the chancellor had the effect to take
the proceeds of their future interest in the property sold, and
to apply the same to the father's debts, without giving them
any benefit, by support-or otherwise, out of the interest of the
life estate in other parts of the property.
'3d. That under the acts and orders he actually aliened the
lot on Broadway and all the southern moiety of'the Greenwich property, excepting two lots, and that none of the children received any benefit from such alienation.
4th. That nearly the whole of the property mentioned in the
acts of Legislature was mortgaged or conveyediby Thomas B.
Clarke for old debts; that no proceeds were ever invested-or
secured, or ever received, from the grantors or -mortgagees.
5th. That so far from providing for the children or protecting the estate, he suffered a large portion -of the northern
moiety to be sold, for assessments, -and was proceeding to dis- t
pose of the same moiety for twenty-one years, when, on ti
81st of March, 1826, a bill -was filed against him on behalf:the children, and an injunction issued.
-

430

SUPREME COURT.
Suydam v. William on et al.

6th. That on the death of his wife he broke up housekeeping,
and ceased to live with his children; that the plaintiff was Mrs.
Williamson; was, from the death of her mother, in August,
1815, supported and educated entirely by one of her aunts;
and that, after about two years from the mother's death, the,
other children were supported and educated by their friends,
and were entirely neglected by their father.
The defendants' counsel objected; the objection was sustained. The plaintiffs' counsel excepted.
A verdict was -then, by direction of the court, taken for the
plaintiffs for the premises claimed, subject to the opinion 6f
the court upon the questions of law, with liberty to either party
to turn this case into a special verdict or bill of exceptions.
SAMUEL R. BETTS: [L. s.]
Endorsed: 127, Circuit Court, southern district New York.
Williamina H. Williamson et al., agt. James H. Suydam.-Cr.
case.-Jas. L. Sluyter, plaintiffs' attorney.
Filed this 29th January, 1855.
Then followed a transcript of other papers in the case. The
writ of error was dated 18th December, 1854.
This was the state of the record upon which the case was
brought up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. .Ellinqwood for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Fk!d for the defendants; but as their arguments were upon
the merits of the case, they are omitted in this report.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of :New York.
The view we have taken of this case, as it is exhibited in
the record, renders an extended statement of the facts entirely
unnecessary. It was an action of ejectment brought in the
court below to recover the possession of a certain parcel of
land, with the appurtenances, situated in the sixteenth ward
of the city of New York, and described as lots sixty-four and
sixty-five, according to a certain map made by George B. Smith.
The declaration, which was in the usual form, was filed in the
Circuit Court for the southern district of New York on the
15th day of August, 1845, and the defendant, James H. Suydam, appeared, by his attorney, and pleaded that he was not
guilty of unlawfully withholding the premises claimed by the
plaintiffs, as was alleged in the declaration, and tendered an
issue, which was duly joined by the plaintiffs. During the

DEOCEM3ER TERM, 1857.
Suydam v. Wliamon el al.

pendency of the suit, and before the trial, two of the plaintiffs,
eing the two first named in the declaration, died, and the
cause was regularly revived in the name of the survivors and
the heirs of those deceased. At the adjourned session of the
Circuit Court held at the city of New York on the first Monday of October, 1849, the parties went to trial on the general
issue, and the jury returned a general verdict in favor of the
plaintiffs; after the verdict, the cause was continued, as the
record states, until the first Monday of October, 1850, and
"the same day is given to the parties to bear the judgment of
the court," and on that day the judgment -was rendered on the
verdict for the plaintiffs, that they do recover against the said
James HI. Suydam the possession of the said premises according to the said verdict of the jury, and for their damages, costs,
and charges; and a writ of possession was duly issued, directed
to the marshal of the district. All these proceedings were in
the usual course of judicial adtion, And were duly and formally
entered on the record of the suit, and consequently furnish no
ground of complaint whatever on the part of the present plainti who was the defendant in the court below. The declara-"
tion ebntained on its face a good cause of action, and the general. issue and joinder were regularly filed in the cause, and
were entirely suicient to make up a valid issue between the
parties to the surt; and the veN'dict, which was strictly formal
and legal, was in every respect responsive to the issue formed.
It appears that the jury found, in the very words of the issue,
that the defendant was -guilty of unlawfully withholding the
premises claimed by the plaintiffs, as alleged in the declaration;
and the judgment followed the verdict,'and was founded upon
it, for the premises as they were set forth and described in the
pleadings. Every step in the cause, from the filing of the declaration to the issuing of the writ of possession, was in exact
conformity to the most approved practice and precedents in
the Federal courts.
We do not understand that the pleadings or the regularity
of the proceedings are in any manner calved in question, except as the foundation of a judgment, which it is insisted was
erroneous, for reasons altogether aside from. any connection
with mere matters of form. The real controversy between the
parties has reference more especially to the right of possession,
and consequently extends to the title of the premises described
in the declaration, and necessarily involves the principal questions which were presented to this court at the December term,
1850, in the case of Williamson et al. v. Berry, 8 How., 495;
and we regret that the facts of the case, and the rulings of the
court-below, are not now exhibited in a manner to justify this

432

SUPREME COURT.
Suydam v. Williai on e al.

court in giving the subject a re-examination with the aid of
the additional light which has been thrown upon it by the
elaborate and very able discussion at the bar; and the more so,
as it appears that a case depending upon the same evidences
,of title has since fhat time been before the Court of Appeals
of the State of iNew York, where a conclusion was reached
widely different from the one expressed by this court on the
former occasion, in the answers given to the questions then
submitted for its consideration. The difficulty, however, in
the way of any such examination at this time, is insurmountable, for the reason that the record does not contain either a
bill of exceptions, special verdict, or an agreed statement of
facts. Some of the questions discussed at the bar might have
been satisfactorily presented in a special verdict, or by an
agreed statement of facts, while in respect to others, apparently
regarded as important, such as the rulings of the court in admitting or rej ecting evidence, it is proper to remark that they
could only be brought to this court for revision by a bill of
exceptions. Such rulings are never properly included in a
special verdict, any more than in an agreed statement of facts.
A special verdict is where the jury find the facts of the c-se,
and refer the decision of the cause upon those facts to the
court, with a conditional conclusion, that if the court should
be of opinion, upon the whole matter thus found, that the
plaintiff has a good cause of action, they then find for the
plaintiff; and if otherwise, they then find for the defendant;
and it is of the very essence of a special verdict, that the jury
should find the facts on which the court is to pronounce the
judgment according to law, and the court, in giving judgment,
is confined to the facts so found; and every special verdict, in
order to enable the appellate court to act upon it, must find
the facts, and not merely state the evidence of facts; so that,
where it states the evidence merely, without stating the conclusions of the jury, a court of error cannot act upon matters
so found. In practice, the formal preparation of such a verdict
is made by the counsel of the parties, and it is usually settled
by them, subject to the correction of the court, according to
the state of facts as found by the jury, with respect to all particulars on which they have passed, and with respect to other
particulars, according to the state of facts which it is agreed
they ought to find upon the evidence before them. After the
special verdict is arranged, and it is reduced to form, it is then
entered on the record, together with the other proceedings in
the cause, and the questions of law arising on the facts found
are then decided by the court, as in case of a demurrer; and
if either party is dissatisfied -with the decision, he may resort

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

483

Suydam v. Tilamsod't al.,

to a court of error, where nothing is open for revision, except
the questions of law inferentially arising on the facts stated in
the special verdict; and we here remark, for the purpose of
illustration, that it is not so much because the proceeding is
denominated a special verdict, that the party by virtue of it is,
authorized to invokd the aid of a revisory tribunal, as it is because it has the effect to incorporate the facts of the case into
the record, which otherwise would have rested in parol, &nd
therefore could not have been reached on a writ of error; and
the same remark applies to a bill of exceptions, which is a still
more comprehensive method of enlarging the record by incorporatin'g into it not only the facts of the case, but the rulings
of the court in admitting and rejecting evidence, and the instructions given to he jury; and after it is signed, sealed, and
filed in he case, it becomes a part of the record, and the matters therein set fdrth can no more be disputed than those contained in any other part of the same record, and are alike subject to revision in a court of-error. It is a mistake, however,
to suppose that in such cases the writ of error operates only
on the bill of exceptions. Such i's never the fact, unless the
whole record is set forth in the bill of exceptions; as the, operation of the writ of error addresses itself to the record as an
entirety, and not to any separate portion of it as distinct from
the residue; and when the cause is removed into the appellate
court, any error apparent in any part of the record is within
the revisory power of such tribunal. The rule is, that whenever the error is apparent on the record, it is open to revision,
whether it be made to appear by.bill of exceptions, or in any
other manner. (Bennet v. Butterworth, 11 How., 669; Slacupl
v. Pomeroy, 6 C(ranch, 221; Garland v..Davis, 4 How., 131;
Cohen v. Virginia, 6 Wheat., 410.)
* When a party is dissatisfied .yth the decision of his cause
in al inferior court, and intends'to seek a revision of the law
applied, to the case in a superior jurisdiction, he must take
care to raise the questiohs of law to be revised, and put the
facts on the record for the information'of the appellate tribunal; and if he omits to do so in any of the methods known to
the practice of such courts, he must be content to abide the
consequences of his own neglect. Evidence, whether written
or oral, and whether given to the court or to the jury, does not
become a part of the record, unless made so by some regular
proceeding at the time of the trial and before the rendition of
the judgment. Whateyer the error may be, and in whatever
stage of the cause it may have occurred, it must appear in the
record, else it cannot be revised in a court of error exercising
jurisdiction according to the course of the common law. Abill
VOL. xx.
28

SUPREME COURT.
Suydam v. Williarmon et al.

of exceptions undoubtedly is the safest method, as it is the
most comprehensive one in its operation; and where the facts
are disputed, and cannot be arranged except from evidence admitted under the ruling of the court as to its admissibility,
oftentimes it becomes the only effectual mode by which all the
rights of the complaining party can be preserved. On the
other hand, where there is no dispute in regard to the facts,
and consequently no necessity for any ruling of the court in
admitting or rejecting evidence, the same purpose may be
safely accomplished by a special verdict, or, according to the
rule established in this court, by an agreed statement of facts.
(United States v. Ellason, 16 Pet., 291; Stimpson v. Railroad
Company3 10 How., 329; Graham v. Bayne, 18 How., 60.)
Where the facts are with6ut dispute, and agreed between the
parties, a statement of the same may be drawn up and entered
on the record, and submitted directly to the court, for its decision, without the intervention of a jury; or a general verdict
may be taken, subject to the opinion of the court upon the facts
so agreed; and in either case, the aggrieved party may bring
error after final judgment, and have the questions of law, arising upon the facts thus spread upon the record, re-examined,
as in the case of a special verdict. (Faw v. Bordeau, 3 Cran.,
174; Brent v. Chapman, 5 Cran., 358.)
It should be observed, however, that the rulings previously
made by the court, in admitting or rejecting evidence during
the progress of the trial, are no more revisable on a special
case, as it is called, when the verdict is taken subject to the
opinion of the court on an agreed state of facts, than where
the agreed statement is submitted directly to the court, without
the intervention of the jury; and for the obvious reason that,
in the one case as much as in the other, the foundation laid
for the action of the revisory tribunal is based upon the consent of the parties to the suit, and consequently the action of
the appellate court must be confined to the facts as they
were agreed, and as they appear in the record of the case.
(Arthursv.Hart, 17 How., 6; Bixler v. Kunkle, 17 S. and R.,
310.) At one time an attempt was made to introduce a different practice into this court; but it was distinctly disclaimed,
and has never been sanctioned in writs of error to any of the
Circuit Courts in States where the proceedings are according
to the course of the common law. (Shankland v. The Corporation of Washington, 5 Pet., 390.)
In that case, it was agreed by the parties that the question
of the admissibility, competency, and sufficiency of the evidence to maintain the action, should be submitted to the court,
and that, in considering the evidence, the court should draw

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Suydam v. Wtiiamson et al.

from it, so far as it was admissible and competent, every inference of fact and law which it would have been competent
for a jury to have drawn from it; and that agreement was appended to an agreed statement of facts, on which the case was
submitted to the determination of the Circuit Court in this
District. Subsequently, it was brought into this court on a
writ of error for revision, and was heard and determined upon
the matters properly exhibited in the record; but this court,
in giving judgment, took occasion to characterize the agreement as an unusual one, and denied that it was competent for
parties to impose any such duties on this court, and expressly
declared that the case was not to be drawn into precedent.
Whenever the parties to a pending suit desire to place the facts
of the case upon the record, so as to secure the riglit to have
the law arising on the facts revised on a writ of error, they
must adopt some one of the methods already suggested to effectuate that purpose, as there are no other effectual methods
'by which it can be accomplished.
Other modes are known to the practice of this court, by
which the evidence produced against a party may in certain
cases be put on the record either in whole or in part, according
to the circumstances, so as to secure the right to have the
questions of law arising upon it revised on a writ of error; but
every proceeding of that kind is either so limited in its application or so tied up- by conditions, that they are seldom of
much practical importance, and are only referred to on the
present occasion to confirm the proposition already advanced,
that no ancillary step~in the cause is of any avail to a party as
laying the foundation to support a writ of error, any farther
than it has the effect to place on the record what otherwise
would rest in parol. Formerly it was considered that a party
might always demur to the evidence produced against him, as
a matter of right; and while that was so, a demurrer to evidence
was equally effectual with a bill of exceptions to the extent of
its operation. (4 Chit. Gen. Prac., 7; 2 Inst., 427.) The bill
of exceptions was always the more comprehensive remedy, because it extended, as it still does, not only to the facts in the
case, but also to the rulings of the court in admitting or-rejecting evidence, and to the instructions given to the jury upon
its legal effect. A demurrer to the evidence, while its operation in one respect is nearly the same as that of the bill of exceptions, in another is very different. It extends only to the
evidence produced, as the term imports, and has no effect at
all upon the rulings of the court by whiclh it was received;
and as a necessary consequence, where the error of the court
consists in having admitted improper evidence, the effect of a

SUPREME COURT.
Su,.dam v. Willlamson et at.

demurrer to it would be to waive the objection to the ruling,
instead of laying the foundation to correct the error. (Bulkely v. Butler, 2 Barn. and Cress., 434.) A demurrer to evidence
is defined by the best text writers to be a proceeding by which
the court in which the action is depending is called upon to
decide what the law is upon the facts shown in evidence, and
it is regarded in -general as analogous to a demurrer upon the
facts alleged in pleading. When a party wishes to withdraw
from the jury the application of the law to the facts, he may,
by consent of the court, demur in law upon the eyidence, the
effect of which is to take from the jury and-refer to the court
the application of the law to the facts, and thus the evidence
is made a part of the record, and is considered by the court as
in the case of a special verdict. A mere description of the
proceeding is sufficient to show that it is the evidence, and
nothing else, that goes upon the record. Since it was determined that a demurrer to evidence could not be resorted to as
a matter of right, it has fallen into disuse; and as long ago as
1813, it *as regarded by this court as an unusual proceeding,
and one to be allowed or denied by the court in the exercise
of a sound discretion under all the circumstances of the case.
(Young v. Black, 7 Cran., 565; United States Bank v. Smith,
11 Wheat., 172; Fowle v. Common Council of Alexandria, 11
Wheat., 322.)
Another method -bywhich certain evidence may be incorporated into the record at the nisi prius trial is by oyer, which
occurs where the plaintiff in his declaration, or the defendant
in his plea, finds it necessary to make a profert of a deed, probate, letters of administration, or other instrument, under sea],
and the other party prays that it may be read to him, which
in such a case cannot, as a general rule, be denied by the
court; and the effect of the proceeding, in certain cases, is to
make the instrument a part of the pleadings, and, consequently, to place it within the operation of a writ of error, which, in
every case where the proceeding is according to the course of
the common law, brings up the whole record; and in all these
cases, as well as in the one -first named, it is because the evidence, whatever it may be, is made a part of the record by the
proceeding, that the questions of law arising upon it become a
proper subject of revision on the writ of error. (I Chitt. on
Plead., 10th Am. ed., 431; 1 Tidd. Prac., 3d Am. ed., 586.)
And the same effect is produced and the same object is attained
when the defendant demurs to the declaration, or When either
party demurs to a material portion of the pleadings on which
the cause depends; and so it must have been understood by
this court in Gorman et al. v. Lenox, 15 Pet., 115, where it

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Suydam v. JWiliamon et al

was held, in accordance with the principle here advanced, that
the action of the Circuit Court of this District, in sustaining a
demurrer to a plea of performance in a suit on a replevin bond,
was the subject of revision on a writ of error; and the, ru
adopted in that case was undoubtedly correct, as the effect of
the demurrer was to make the error apparent in the record;
and when that is so, it becomes thesubject of revisidn just as
much as when it is made to appear by a bill of exceptions or a
special verdict.
We have now adverted to the several methods acknowledged
by courts of error, by which 'matters resting in parol at the
trial in the subordinate tribunal may be put on the record, so
as to lay a proper foundation for a revision of the legal questions arising out of them in the appellate court, and there are
no others which can be recognised in this court in cases where
the proceedings are required to be.accordingto the course of
the common law. (Dougherty v. Campbell,'1 Blackf., 24; Cole
v. Driskell, 1 Blackf., 16.)
A writ of error is an original writ, and lies only when a paity
is aggrieved by some error in the foundation, proceedings, judgment, or execution, of a suit in a court of record, and is defined
to be a commission, by which the\judges of one court are authorized to examine a record upon which a judgment was given
in another court, and, on such examination, to affirm or reverse;
and it was expressly held by this court, in Cohens v. Virginia,
(6 Whea., 410,) that the writ of error operated upon, the record,
and that its effect, under the judiciary act, was to bring it into
this court, and submit it to i re-exaffiination; and it is also
laid down by the best writers on pleading, that nothing will
be error in law that does not appear on the face of therecord,
for matters not so appearing are not supposed to have entered
into the consideration of the judges. (Steph. on Plea., 121.)'
The writ of error in this case was issued on the eighteenth
day of December, 1854, and on the twenty-ninth day of January, 1855, an additional paper was filed, which in the transcript is denominated the "case, " and is the one which furnished, all the materials for the .discussion at the bar. It
purports to contain all the evidence introduced at the trial in
the court below, as well that given by the defendant as tbA
given by th6 plaintiffs, and certain offers of proof on the part
of the plaintiffs, which were objected to by the defendant, and
excluded by the court. This mass of evidence, with the exhibits,' filling .sixty pages of the transcript, h'as respect, bn the one
side or the other, to the title and right of possession to the
premises described in the declaration, and comprises all the
evidences of title, which were before this. court on the Toriher

438

SUPREME COURT.
Suydam v. Williamson et at.

,occasion; and, in addition thereto, certain' admissions of the
parties and other parol evidence. It is now drawn up in the
form of a report of the judge who presided at the trial, and is
signed by him, and is under seal; and, as we understand the
endorsement, is certified to be correct by the counsel of the
plaintiffs. The conclusion of the report is as follows:
"A verdict was then, by direction of the court, taken for
the plaintiffs, for the premises claimed, subject to the opinion
of the court upon the questions of law, with liberty to either
party to turn this case into a special verdict or bill of exceptions."
Whatever might have been the right of the parties under that
report, it is too plain for argument, that no one connected with
its preparation could have regarded it eitlier as a special verdict
or a bill of exceptions. All that it professed to do was to give
either party the liberty to turn the case into one or the other
of those forms of proceeding; and it is a sufficient answer to
any pretensions under the report to say, that the change has
not been made; that, for some reason unknown to this court,
the right to make the change, if such it was, has never been
exercised; and that it is now presented here in the form in
which it was prepared when it is too late to make the alteration. And we also say, that this court cannot so far depart
from the settled practice and regular course of proceeding as to
give an effect to-the paper which .neither its contents nor terms
would warrant; nor can we attempt to do for the plaintiff in
error what it was his duty to have done at the trial, and before
the writ of error -was sued out; nor are we prepared to admit
that the option given to turn the case either into a special verdict or a bill -of exceptions could have been exercised by either
party under the concluding portion of that report, withodt the
assent of the judge who presided at the trial, and irrespective
of his authority. On the contrary, we conclude that, "where
a case shall be made with leave to turn the same into a special
verdict or bill of exceptions, the party shall not be at liberty
to do either, at his election, but the court may, if they think
proper, prescribe the one which he shall adopt." (Conk. Trea.,
8d ed., p. 444.)
Nothing less than the presence and assent of the court, we
think, can give any legal validity to a special verdiet; and in
respect to a bill of exceptions, it must always be signed and
sealed by the judge, or else it would be a nullity. (Phelps v.
Mayer, 15 How., 160.) A special verdict ought always to be
settled under the correction of the judge who presided at the
trial, and, whether prepared at the time or subsequently, it
should be filed as of the term when the trial took place. (Tur-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

439

Suydam v. Williamson etal.

ner v. Yates, 16 How., 14; Sheppard v. Wilson, 6 How., 275.)
The necessary- fiect of the proceeding, where the verdict is
taken subject to the opinion of the court, would be t6 postpone
the preparation of the special verdict till after the parties were
heard, and the opinion given; and to that extent the delay is
allowable, though we are by no means prepared to admit that
it may be done after the cause has been removed into this court.
The result is, we have come to the conclusion, on this branch
of the case, that the paper in the transcript denominated the
"case" must be considered me~ely as a report of the judge who
presided at the trial; that it is not a part of the record, and,
consequently, must be wholly disregarded by this court, in determining whether the judgment of the court below ought to
be reversed or affirmed. Raving come to that conclusion, it
becomes'unnecessary to notice any of the rulings of the court
in admitting or excluding evidence, as no part of that report
can be taken into consideration. The question whether the
report of a judge who tried the cause was a part of the record,
came u .directly before this court, in Ingle v. Coolidge, 2Whea.,
863; and, after a deliberate consideration, the court unanimously determined that it did not. It was a writ of error to
the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. The record
showed that the jury found a general verdict for the original
plaintiff, and the cause was then continued, as the record stated,
"for the opinion of the whole court upon the law of the case,
as reported by the judge who tried the same, and at a subsequent term judgment was rendered for the plaintiff upon the
verdict. Wh6n the record was brought into this court, the
report of the judge was annexed to the writ of error with the
other proceedings and exhibits in the cause, and this court, in
speaking of the report, said: It is not like a special verdict, or
a statement of facts agreed of record, upon which the court is.
to pronounce its judgment. -The judgment was rendered upon
a general verdict, and the report is mere matter in pais to regulate the discretion of the court as to the pr6priety of granting
relief, or sustaining a motion for new trial.
Other cases have been decided by this court, ascerting the
same general principle, that nothing can be considered upon a
writ of error except what appears upon the record; and one in
particular, which, in that point of view, bears a very close analoo-y to the case underconsideration. We allude to the case of
6inor v. Tillotson, (2 How., 892,) which was a writ of error to
the Circuit Court of the eastern district of Louisiana, under
the twenty-second section of the judiciary act. A mass of evidence in that case was received from both parties, consisting
of concessions and grants under the Spanish Government, inter-

SUPREME COURT.
Suydam v. Wihiamson et al.

mediate conveyances, documents showing the proceedings in
regard to the title under the laws of the United States, and
paroi testimony; and the cause was submitted to the court
under an agreement that those documents, proceedings, andparol testimony, constituted all the evidence on which the cause
was tried, and that the agreement was "made for a, statement
of the facts in the case." This court then said, it seems to have
been supposed that the agreement of the coubsel that the evidence in the cause should be considered as a statement of facts,
was a sufficient ground for a writ of error on whicV a revision
of the legal questions might be made, and intimated, very
strongly, that if it were so, it would be to require the court to
try the cause on its merits, and emphatically declared, "this is
never done on a writ of error, which issues according to the
course of the common law." And so also it was held in Leland et al. v. Wilkinson, (6 Pet., 317,) that the private laws
of a State, and special proceedings of the Legislature of a
State, in regard to the sale of the estate of a deceased person
for his debts, could not be considered, unless they were found
in the record; and in Williams v. Norris, (12 Whea., 117,) it
was determined that neither depositions nor exhibits, of any
description, constitute "any part of the record on which the
judgment of an appellate court is to be exercised, unless made
a part of it by a bill of exceptions, or in some other manner
recognised by law."- These cases, we think, have a strong
tendency to support the proposition, that the paper, in the
transcript denominated the "case," cannot be regarded as a
part of the record; and if not, then it is clear that itcannot be
considered on the present occasion, irrespective of the fact that
it was not filed till more than a year after the writ of error
issued, which of itself is decisive:of the point that it cannot
be considered.. (Williams v. Norris, 12 Whea., p. 120.)
It is. certain, therefore, that there is no error in the record;
and the only remaining question is, what disposition ought
to be made of the cause, under the circumstances of the
case?
An important distinction exists in respect to writs of error
issued under the twenty-second sectiQn of-the judiciary act,
from those issued under the twenty-fifth section of the same
aut, which it becomes necessaryfo notice-in this connection,
in order to maintain a writ of error to this court from a State
court within the twenty-fifth section of that act, it must appear
on the face of the record that some one, at least, of the questions stated in that section did arise in the State court, and
that the question was decided in the State court, as required in
the section; and if it does not so appear in the record, then

DECEMBER TERM, 1857

441

Suydam v. Wilhiamron et al.

this court has no jurisdiction of the case, and in that eventthe
writ of error must be dismissed, as this court, under those circumstances, has no power either to reverse or affirm the judgment brought up for revision; and such was the state of the
record in ITglee v. Coolidge, and accordingly the writ of error
was dismissed. The writ of error, however, in this case issued
under the twenty-second section of the judiciary act, in respect
to which a different rule prevails, as will be seen by attending
to the language of the act. That section provides, in effect,
that final jYudgments in a Circuit Court brought there by original process may be re-examined, and reversed or affirmed, in
this court, upon a writ of error; and where the cause is brought
into this court upon a writ of error issued under that section,
and all the proceedings are regular, and no question is presented in the record for -revision, it follows, by the express
words of the section, that the judgment of the court must be
affirmed. Beyond question, the ±ecord in this case exhibits
every fact required by the section to give this court jurisdiction of the cause, and in strict compliance with the terms of
the act. The action was originally brought in the Circuit
Court for the southern district of New York, and the record
shows a sufficient declaration duly filed in court-a proper
and valid issue between the parties-a perfect finding by the
jury upon the issue joined, arid a regular judgment on the
verdict, which was final, unless reversed; and certainly these
are all the requisites of a record, according to the requirements
of the twenty-second section of the judiciary act, to entitle aparty to retain the judgment which has been given in 'his
favor. (Minor et al. v. Tillotson, 1 How., 287; Stevens v.
Gladding, 19 How., 64; Lathrop v. Judson, 19 How., 66.)
It is only when the special verdict is ambiguous or imperfect,
or when it finds only the evidence of facts, and not the facts
themselves, or finds but a part of the facts in issue, and is
silent as to others, that this court can regard the finding as a
mistrial, and order a venire de novo. (Barnes v. Williams, 11
Wheat., 415; Carringtou v. Pratt, 18 How., 63; Prentice v.
Zane, 8 How., 484.)
When the record exhibits such a state of facts, it is then
competent for this court to remand the cause for a new trial,
in order that the finding of the jury may be perfected. The
record itself in such a case shows the impeyfection which
it is the purpose of the new trial to remedy, and it constitutes
the basis of the action of the court in giving the order to. send
the cause down to a rehearing. No such imperfection appears
on this record. On the contraiT, the record shows a perfect
finding of the jury, and, on a careful inspection of fhe tran-

442

SUPREME COURT.
Brown v. Wiley et al.

script, we are unable to discover error in any part of the proceedings.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed,
with costs.
TAYLOR BROWN,- PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. LEROY M. WILEY,
HUGH R. BANKS, WILLIAM G. LANE, HENRY VAN DERZEE,
AND EDWARD H. LANE, MERCHANTS, TRADING UNDER THE NAME
AND STYLE OF L. M. WILEY & Co.
Where a bill of exchange was drawn in proper form and protested for non-acceptance, parol evidence of an understanding between the drawer and the party in
whose favor the bill was drawn, calculated to vary the terms of the instrument,
was not admissible.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the district of Texas.
Wiley & Co. were citizens of New York, and Brown a citizen of Texas.
The cause of action was the following bill of exchange:
$2,359.26.
SHREVEPORT, iliareh 23, 1854.
On or before the 1st of May next, 1855, please pay to order
L. M. Wiley & Co. twenty-three hundred and fifty-nine and

twenty-six one hundredths dollars, for value received, and
charge same to my account, without further advice.
TAYLOR BROWN.

Messrs. Campbell & Strong, merchants, New Orleans.
By W. L. MCMURRAY.

This draft was presented and protested for non-acceptance
on the 10th of June, 1854, more than ten months before the
time when it was payable; and it appeared from the record
that the suit was instituted against the drawer in February,
1855; nearly three months before the maturity of the bill.
The petition, as amended, contained the usual averments of
the drawing of the draft, its presentation for acceptance, protest, and notice of dishonor.
The defence was, that there were two bills of similar character, except thaLt one was payable in May, 1854, and the other
in May, 1855; and that it was agreed by the parties that the
second should not be presented for acceptance until the first
was taken up. These pleas were, on motion of the plaintiffs'
counsel, stricken out.
The cause then came on for trial, and the defendant offered
evidence to prove these facts, the result of which is stated in
the following extract from the bill of exceptions:

