SUPREME COURT.

558

Irvine v. Marshallet al.

JoHN

R. IRVINE,

APPELLANT, V. WILLIAm

R. MARSHALL

AND

THiOMAs BARTON.
At a sale of public lands in a Territory, an agent who purchased for another must
account, as trustee, to his employer, although the statutes of the Territory have
abolished all resulting trusts.
The United States, being the owner of the public lands within the States and Territories, have the right to say to whom, in what mode, and by what title, they
shall be conveyed.
It promotes the public sales, that agents should be allowed to attend and purchase,
under the usual responsibility of agents or trustees.
The control, enjoyment, and disposal, by the United States, of their own property,
is independent of the locality of such property, whether it be situated in a State
or Territory; nor are the contracts of the Government with respect to subjects
within its donstitutional competency, local, or confined in their effects and operation strictly to the sites of the subjects to which they relate.
Although a certificate may be the subject of bargain and sale, yet the United
States can take care that the conveyance shall be made to him who is in good
faith their vendee.
The jurisdiction of the courts of the United States as courts of equity is ample to
enforce the performance 6f trusts under both tuu. Constitution and laws.
The United States can declare by Congress what the law shall be with respect to
the public lands, and enforce that law through the judiciary department.
Although the officers of the land department may in practice, and as a rule of convenience, have received the certificate of purchase as evidence of title, yet neither
that practice nor the certificate itself can control the power either of the United
States or of this court, to adjudge or to confirm the title to the land to the true
owner.

THIS was an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Minnesota.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Cooper for the appellant, and by 3Mr.
Bradley for the appellee, upon which side there was also filed
a brief by Mr. Brisbin and Mr. Stevens.
Mr. Justice DANTEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The proceedings in this cause, though in form somewhat
anomalous and peculiar, may be regarded as presenting substantially the case of a bill for the specific performance of a
contract; a demurrer to the relief sought by that bill, a decree
(or what in the proceedings is called a judgment) sustaining
the demurrer, although there is no express or formal direction
or order for a dismission of the bill; and a general affirmance,
by what is styled the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
Territory, of the 'de~ision of the District Court.
The appellant, in'his complaint in the District Court of the
Territory, alleges, that at a sale of public lands which occurred
the year 1854, at the land
on the 11th day of September, in'
office at Stillwater, in the Territory of Minnesota, in pursu-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

559

Irvine v. Hareha et al.

ance of the proclamation of the President of the United States,
the appellee, Marshall, as the agent, and with the funds and
under the authority of the complainant, and of the appellee,
Barton, purchased for them the southwest quarter of section
number seven, in township number twenty-eight north- of
range twenty-three west, in the county of Ramsey, containing.
one hundred and sixty acres, at the price of one dollar ana
twenty-five cents per acre, making an aggregate of two hundred dollars for the entire purchase; the certificate for which
purchase was, with the assent of the complainant and Barton,
issued in the name of their said agent, Marshall. That notwithstanding the equality of interest in the land in the complainant and Barton, and the fact that the price was furnished
by them in equal portions, viz:, one hundred dollars by each
of these parties, the appellee, Barton, has claimed the entire
tract of land; and the agent, Marshall, in consequence, or under the pretext of this pretension, refuses to convey to the
complainant his rightful portion, viz: one full undivided moiety
of these lands.
The bill next charges, that Marshall is about to convey the
whole of the land to Barton, in fraud of the complainant's
rights, and concludes With a prayer that Marshall may bb enjoined from executing such a conveyance to Barton, and may
be compelled td convey .to the complainant his full undivided
lialf-part of the land, in conformity with the terms and objects
of the purchase; it contains also a prayer for general relief.
To this complaint there was no answer; but the record of the
District Court discloses the following entries:
" Territory of Minnesota, county of Ramsey. District Court,
second district. John R. Irvine against William R., Marshall
and Thomas Barton. Then came the .defendants, by their
attorney, and demur to the complaint of the plaintiff herein,
and specify the following grounds of demurrer:
"First. The complaint does not state on its face facts sufficient to constitute a cause of actiQn.
"Second. The complaint alleges that the defendant, Mar-.
shall, purchased the land mentioned -therein, in trust'for the
plaintiff and the defendant, Barton. To trust arises or can
grow oat of the facts stated.
"Third. Admitting that a trust could-arise upon the facts,
the complaint does not show the plaintiff entitled to the relief sought, inasmuch as it does not specify the nature of the
trust.
"Fourth. There is a defect of the parties defendants; it does
not appear that the defendant, Barton, has any interest in the
event of the action.. It 'does not appear that the defendant,

560

SUPREME COURT.
Tr-vine v. Aarahall et al.

Barton, has any interest 'in the event of the suit, adverse to
the plaintiff.' "
Next follows the decision, judgment, or decree, by whichsoever of these titles it may be appropriately designated, in these
words: "There is no allegation in the complaint that the conveyance was taken without the knowledge or consent of the
complainant, nor that the purchase was made in violation of
some trust. The complainant does not therefore bring himself within the provisions of sec. 9, p. 202, of the revised statutes, and the demurrer must be sustained. See also sec. 5, of
the same chapter. I do not discover any defect of parties,
The plaintiff has twenty days to amend, so as to bring his
complaint within the provisions of sec. 9 referred to, if he shall
be advised that the facts will warrant it."
There having been no amendment of the pleadings in the
District Cciurt, either proposed or allowed, the decision of that
court must be regarded as final between the parties upon the
case, as disclosed on the face of the record; and that decision
having been taken by appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory, the following transcript is certified
as containing the
cause:
proceedings of the latter tribunal in this
"July 15, 1856. John R. Irvine, appellant, v. Marshall and
Barton, respondents. This cause having been argued and submitted, after due consideration of the matters at issue herein,
it appears to the court that in the order and judgment thereon
in the court below, there is no error. It is therefore ordered
that said judgment be in all things affirmed, with costs to
respondents."
The omission in this latter decision of any statement of the
particular grounds on which it has been placed, and the general reference made by it to the -opinion of the District Court,
not showing the principles and the authority on which the
judgment of affirmance has been rested, lead necessarily to an
examination of the opinion of the District Court as the true
test of conclusions, adopting that opinion and relying upon it
for their support. In such an examination, it would be unnecessary, and even irregular, to consider any points not ruled
by the inferior court; as whatever has not been adjudged or
passed upon by an inferior tribunal, cannot be embraced in a
general judgment, either of affirmance or reversal, upon an
appeal fr-om its opinion.
The points intended to be ruled by the District Court, and
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Minnesota, if sought for
solely upon the face of the judgments of those courts, or even
with the aid of the references to the Territorial statute furnished by the former judgment, it might be difficult to dis-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

561

Irvine v. Marhallet at.

cover. Connecting those references, however, with the sevepth
and eighth sections of the -statutes of Minnesota, (Rev. Stit.,
pp. 202, 203,) we may perceive in the decisions of these Territorial courts the d~sign to assert and establish the following
positions, viz: Thatin every instance of a grant or purchase,
or of an agreement for the purchase of lands for a valuable consideration, in which the price or consideration shall be paid by
one person, and the conveyance or the contract for title shall
be to another, no use or trust shall result in favor of the person
by whom such payment shall be made, but the title and possession shall vest exclusively in the person named as the alienee
in such conveyance or agreement. - The position ,asserted by
the couit of Minnesota, in interpreting their statute, must be
understood as broadly as it has just been stated, or it has no
application to the case before us. It is a denunciation of everything like an equitable title or lien, or a resulting trust, with
the exceptions contained in the eighth and ninth sections of
the statute, of the interests of creditors of the equitable claimant, of instances in which the alienee or agent shall, without
the knowledge and consent of him who paid the consideration,
have taken the conveyance in his own name; or shall, in violation of some trust, have purchased the lands with moneys
belonging to another person.
The authority'and effect of the Territorial laws of Minnesota upon subjects within the legitimate bounds or cognizance
of that Territorial Government, no person; it is presumed, will
be disposed to questidn; but it seems equally clear that to
Tespect the rights and interests which come not within the
scope of that authority, but which are created by the Constitution and laws of the United States, imposes a duty as sacred
as any which enjoins upon a State or Territory the obligation
to protect and -maintain-whatever of power may justly belong
to it. And it cannot without extravagance be supposed, that
to secure these proper and necessary ends, the Territory should
assume the powei to control the acquisition or transmission of
property never belonging to, and not dcquired from, herself;
to which, therefore, she ould annex no conditions, 'much less
conditions which might impair the interests of the citizens of
every State, and'of every State collectively in the Confederacy,
and even of the United' Stateg, and render utterly worthless,
and incapable of-being disposed of, subjects in which the Territory has no legal right or -property whatsoever. It cannot be
denied that all the.lands in the Territories, not appropriated by
comapetent authority before ihey .were .Acquired, are in the
ilrst instance the exclusive property of the United States, to be
disposed of to such persons, at such timesp, and in such modes,
VOL. 'XX.

6

562

SUPREME COURT.
Irvine v. Marshallet al.

and by such titles, as the Government may deem most advantageous to the public fisc, or in other respects most politic.
This right has been uniformly reserved by solemn compacts
upon the admission of new States, and has heretofore been
reconised and scrupulously respected by sovereign States
within which largeportions of the public lands have been comprised, and within which much of those lands is still remaining. Can this right co-exist with a power in a Territory (itself
the property of the United States) to interpose and to dictate
to the United States to whom, and in what mode, and by what
title, the public lands shall be conveyed? If a person desirous
Of purchasing shall depute an agent to attend a sale of public
lands, and if at such sale payment be made by the agent with
the funds of his principal, and both agent and principal shall
present themselves at the General Land Office, and mutually
request a patent to be issued to the true owner, can it possibly
be thought within the competency of a Territorial Legislature,
either upon the, suggestion, or upon proof of the fact, that a
certificate of purchase was given to the agent in his own name,
to interpose, and say to the Federal Government, you shall not
make a title to this person whom you know, upon the acknowledgment
of all concerned, is the true and bonafidepurchaser of the land, and
ifyou do we will vacate that title? Is it not for the increase of
the revenue that the-sales of the public lands should be as extensive as possible, and is it not obviously promotive of this
end, that persons who can attend and bid at those sales by agent
or attorney only, as well as those who can attend them in person, should have the power to purchase; and would not an
inhibition of this privilege operate to restrict the salbs of the
public lands, and thereby injure the revenue of the Government? And cui bono, should this mischief be permitted? Simply to favor a visionary innovation for the destruction of resulting trusts and equitable titles, a class of titles resting upon the
essential elements of all honest titles, truth and justice, and coeval with the very rudiments of equity law. And this innovation, too, to be extended not merely to cases which from
contestation or from defective proof might be uncertain or hazardous, but to instances which shall forbid to persons willing
and proffering the fulfilment of their duty, the power to do so.
The power of being honest, a power surely not sd often exerted
as to merit being repulsed as obtrusive and ungracious.
1st. It has b~en argued that the subject of this controversy
is situated within the limits of the Territory.
2d. That it is property, and may pass as such by devise or inheritance.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

563

Irvine v. Harshall ef al.

8d. That in some of the States and Territories, actions at law
may be maintained on these certificates.
4th. It is asked under what head of jurisdiction, in the absence of express and particular statutory provision, the courts
of thb United States can recognise or enforce a resulting trust
like that in the present case. The fallacy of the conclusion
attempted from the first of the positions jiist stated, consists in
the supposition, that the control of the United States over property admitted to be their own, is dependent upon locality, as
to the point within the limits of a State or Territory within
which that property may be situated. But as the control, enjoyment, or disposal of that property,.must be exclusively in the
United States, anywhere and everywhere within their own
limits, and within the powers delegated by the Constitution, no
'State, and much less can a-Territory, (yet remaining under the
authority of the Federal Government,) interfere with the regular, the just, and necessary powers of the latter. Another
error, inhereift' in the same position, is seen in the supposition
that the contracts of the Government with respect to subjects
within its constitutional competency are also local, confined in
their effect and operation strictly to the situs of the subjects to
which they relate. The true principle applicable to the objection just noted, and by which that objection is at once obviated, we hold to be this: That within the provisions prescribed
by the Constitution, and by the laws enacted in accordance
with the Constitution, the acts and powers of the Government
are to be interpreted and applied so as to create and maintain
a system, general, equal, and beneficial as a whole. By this
rule, the acts and the contracts of the Government must be
understood As referring to and sustaining the rights and interests of all the members of this Confederacy, and as neither
emanating from, nor intended for the promotion of, any policy
peculiarly local, nor in any respect dependent upon such policy.
The system adopted for the disposition of the public lands
embraces tile interests .of all the States, and proposes theequal
participati6n therein of all the people of all the States.- -This
system is theref6re peculiarly and exclusively the exercise of a
Federal power. The theatre of its accomplishment is the seat
of the Federal Government. The mode of that accomplish-ament, the evidences or miuniments of right it bestows, are all
the work of Federal, functionaries alone. Are these things
in any degree compatible with the claim to prescribe to the
United States the modes or the extent in which they may dispose of their own property, or with a denunciation of a forfeiture.as the consequence of a departure from such a pretension?

SUPREME COURT.
Irvine v. Marshall et al.

With regard to the positions, that the right acquired by a
purchase of a certificate,' bona fide made, is property in the
vendee, even before the emanation of the patent, and that some
of the States have permitted suits at law to be instituted on
certificates of purchase, (as several have permitted such suits
on other equitable titles,) it is not perceived that the concession
of either or both of these positions can in any degree impair
the right of the United States to contract upon their own terms
for the sale of their own property, or diminish their obligation
in the fulfilment of their contract in good faith, to convey to
their vendee the subject for which he has paid them. There
certainly can exist nowhere a power to compel them to convey
to any person, and much less to require of them the perpetration of a fraud in behalf of one in whom no shadow of a
valid title is shown; and who, by the pleadings in this cause
it is admitted, has acted dishonestly; whose admitted dishon.
esty indeed is the alleged and the sole foundation of the claim
of the defendants.
When the engagements or undertaking of the United States,
with respect to property exclusively and confessedly their own,
from a period anterior to the existence of the Territorial Government, shall have been consummated; when the subject,
and all control over it, shall have passed from the United
States, and have become vested in a citizen or resident of the
Territory, then indeed the Territorial regulations may operatq
upon it; but whilst these remain in the United States, or are
aThcted by their rights, or powers, or duties, those rights, duties, or powers, tan in no wise be influenced by an inferior and
subordinate authority.
With regard to th r. fourth objection, of a.want of jurisdiction
ifn the courts of the United States, in the absence of express
statutory provisions, to recognise and enforce a resulting trust
like that presented by the present case, it is- a sufficient response to say, that the jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States is properly commensurate with every right and' duty
created, declared, or necessarily implied, by and under the
Constitution and laws of the United States. Those courts are
created courts of common law and equity; 'and under whichsoever of these classes ofjurisprudence such rights or duties may
fall, or be appropriately ranged, they are to be taken cognizance
of and adjudicated according to the settled and known principles of that division to whicl they belong.
By the language -bf the Constitution it is expressly declared,
(art. 3d, sec. 2, clause 1,) that the judicial power of the United
8tates-shall extend to all cases in law and equity arising under
4he Constitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties

DEUEMBER TERM, 1857.

'565

Irvine v. Harhall d al.

made under their authority. By the statute which organized
the judiciary of the United States, it is provided, that the Circuit Courts shall have jurisdiction of suits of a civil natur'e "at
common law or in equity." (Vide.1 Stat.'at L., p. 78, seqtion
11.) In the interpretation of these clauses of the Constitution and the statute, this court has repeatedly ruled, that by
cases at common law are to be understood' suits in,.which
legal rights are to be ascertained and determined, in contradistinction to those where equitable rights alone are recognised, and equitable remedies are administered.- (Vide Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Pet., 447, and Robinson v. Campbell, 3
*Wheaton, 212.) That by cases in equity are to be understood suits in which relief is sought according to the principles and practice of the equity jurisdiction, as established in
English jurisprudence. (Wide the case of Robinson v. Campbell, just cited, and the United States v. Howland, 4 Wheaton,
108.) Here, then, is an exposition botl of the Constitution
and laws of the United States, with reference both to the jurisdiction and powers of their courts, and to the instances in which
it is their duty to exercise those powers; and the inquiry forces
itself upon us, who shall or can have the authority to delrive
them of those powers and that jurisdiction ? or can those e6urts,
consistently with their duty, refuse to exert those powers and
that jurisdiction for the protectiou of rights arising under the
Constitution and laws, in the acceptation in which both have
been interpreted and sanctioned?
With respect to resulting trusts, and the jurisdiction and
duty, of the courts of the United States to enforce them;the.
opinion of this court has been emphatically declared; and so
declared in a case of peculiar force and appositeness, because
it related to the acts of.an agent in the entry and survey of
laids, and is in its principal features essentially the same with
the cause now under consideration. We allude to the case of
Massie v. Wafts, reported in the 6th -vol. of Cranch, p. 143.
This was a suit in equity in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Kentucky, to compel the conveyance
of land from an agent to his principal, upon the round that
the agent had -withdrawn an entry on lands made in the name
of his principal, had .caused an entry and iurvey to be made in
his own name, and had thereby obtained a legal title to this
land. In decreeing the relief sought, by the complainant, this
court, expounding the law by the Chief Justice, (pp. 169, 170,)
said: -"If Massie (i. &, the agent) really believed that the'entry
of O'Neal; (his principal,) as ma.de, could not be surveyed, it
-was his duty to amend it, or-tb place it elsewhere. But if in
this he was mistaken, it would be dangerous in the eitreme-

-

566

SUPREME COURT.
.rvine v. Marshall et al.

it would be a cover for fraud which could seldom be removed,
if a locator alleging difficulties respecting a location might
withdraw it, and take the land for himself. But Massie, the
agent of O'Ncal, has entered the land'for himself, and obtained
a patent in his own name. According to the cleai'est and bestestablished principles of equity, the agent who so acts becomes a
trustee for his principal. He cannot hold the land under an
entry for himself, otherwise than as a trustee for his principal."
This -exposition of the equity powers of the courts of the United
States as applicable to resulting trusts-a power inseparable
from the cognizande over frauds, one great province of equity
jurisprudence-is 'onclusive.
With respect to the power of the Federal Government to
assert, through the instrumentality of its appropriate organs,
the administration of its constitutional rights and duties, and
with regard to such an assertion as exemplified in the management and disposition of the public lands, and the titles thereto,
the interpretation of this court has been settled too conclusively to admit of controversy.
In the case of Wilcox v. Jackson, reported in the 13th of
Pet., p. 498, which presents an instance of an attempt to control, by the authority of the laws of the State of Illinois, the
effect and operation of a right or title derivable from the United
States to a-portion of the public lands, this court thus emphaticallydeclare the law: "It has been said that the State of flinois has a right to declare, by law, that a title derived from
the United States, which by their laws is only inchoate and
imperfect, shall be deemed as perfect a title as if a patent had
issued from the United States; and the construction of her
own courts seems to give that effect to her statute. That State
has an undoubted right to legislate as she may please in regard
to the remedies to be prosecuted in her courts, and to regulate
the disposition of the property of-her *citizens,by descent, devise, or alienation. But the property in queation was a part
of the public domain of the United States. Congress is invested by the Constitution with the power of disposing of and
making needful rules and regulations respecting it. Congress
has declared, as we have said, by its legislation, that in such a
case as this, a patent is necessary to complete the title. But
in this case no patent has issued; and therefore, by the laws
of the United States, the legal title has not passed, but remains
in the United States. Now, if it were competent for a State
Legislature to say, that notwithstanding this, the title shall be
deemed to have passed, the effect would be, not that Congress
had the power of disposing of the public lands, and prescribing
the rules and regulations concerning that disposition, but that

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Irvine v.

56r

"arahallet al.

Illinois possessed. it. That would be to make the laws of Illinois paramount to those of Congress in relation to a subjpct
confided by the Constitution to Congress only; and the practical result in this very case would be, by force of State legislation, to take from the United States. their own lands, against
their own will and against their own laws. We hold the true
principle to be this: that whenever the question in any court,
State or Federal, is whether a title to land which was ounce the
roperty of the United States has passed, that question must
e resolved by the laws of the United States; but that whenever, according to those laws, the title shall have'passed, then
the property, like all other property in the State, is subject to
State legislation, so far as that legislation is consistent with.
the admission, that the title passed anid vested according-to the
laws of the ,United States."
It has been argued, that it is the practice of the officers of
the land office to receive the certificate of purchase, as presenting upon its face the only evidence of title, and that those officers will recognise no other evidence of title but this certificate.
Of the practice or the opinion of the officers of the land department, no evidence is exhibited upon this record. But
supposing these to be in accordance with the above suggestion,
they could by no means control the action or the opinion of
this court in expounding the law with reference to the rights of
parties litigant before 'them; and this they must do, in accordance with their own convictions, uninfluenced by the opinions
of any and every other department of the Government. The
reception of the certificate of purchase as evidence of title may
be regular and convenient as a rule of business, but.it has not
been anywhere established as conclusive evidence, much less
has it been adjudged to forbid or exclude proofs of the real
and just rights of claimants. It is mere justice to the officers
of the land department, to presume that they would respect
the interpretation of the Constitution and laws promulged
by those who are appointed to be their expositors; but upon a
supposition, or even upon a conviction of the converse of this,
the path of duty here is plain and direct, and must be followed
without hesitancy or deviation. The judgment of the Supreme
Court of Minnesota is reversed with costs, and this cause is
remanded to that court, with instructions that it be remitted to
the District Court, with permission to the defendant to answer
over to the complaint of t.he plaintiff; and in the event of a
refusal or.failure of the defendant so to do, with direction to
the DistriCt Court to render a judgment in favor of the plaintiff, in conformity with the law, as ruled by this court in this
cause.

-

568

SUPREME COURT.
Irvine v. .Harhallet d.

Mr. Justice CATRON, Mr. Justice GRIER, and Mr. Justice CAMPBELL, dissented, and concurred with Mr. Justice
NELSON in the following. dissenting opinion:
Mr. Justice NELSON:
In this case, Marshall bought at the request of Irvine and
Barton a quarter section of land, at a land sale in Minnesota
Territory, for which two hundred dollars was paid, and a patent
certificate given to him in his name. One hundred dollars of
the money was furnished by Irvine, and one hundred by Barton, and the land according to the arrangement was to be held
in trust by Marshall, for their benefit. Barton, for some reason
not explained, afterwards claimed the whole instead of an undivided half of the section, and demanded a conveyance of the same
from Marshall, the trustee. Irvine afterwards applied to the
trustee for a conveyance of his undivided half, which was refused, in consequenze of the previous claim of Barton to the
'whole section. This suit is.brought by Irvine, against Marshall, the trustee, to compel him to make the above conveyance.
The court below, on a demurrer to the complaint which
contained the facts substantially as above stated, gave judgment for the defendant, refhsing to compel the execution of
the conveyance.
The question. presented would be a very plain one at common or equity law upon the doctrine of trusts as administered
by courts unaffected with any local legislation. The facts
would present the case of a resulting trust for the benefit of
the persons who had furnished the purchase-money, and the
trustee compelled to convey accordingly the interest belonging
to-the respective parties.
But the Legislature of Minnesota have passed a law modifying the doctrine of uses and-trusts, and especially in respect
to resulting trusts of the character in question. It has provided, that when a grant is made for a valuable consideration to one person, and the consideration paid by another,
no trust shall result in favor of the person paying the consideration, but the title shall vest in the- person named as
grantee, subject only to two exceptions: 1. In favb'r of the
creditors of the person paying the consideration money; and
2. When the person taking the conveyance in his own name
shall have taken it without the knowledge or consent of the
party paving the consideration, or when the trustee shall have
purchased, in violation of his trust, with moneys belonging to
another person. (R. S. of Minnesota, pp. 202, 203, sees. 7, 8, 9.)
It is admitted that the present case does iot fall within either

DECEMJBER TERM, 1857.

569

Irvine v. MfarhaU el a!.

of the exceptions, and on this ground the relief in the court
below was denied.
This provision in the laws of Minnesota will be found
adopted in several of the States. This precise modification of
a resulting trust was incorporated into the laws of the State
of Nqew York as early as 1830, and from which, as is said, it
was taken and engrafted in the statutes of this Territory.
The object of the change is to prevent secret and fraudulent
conveyances of property, with the view of defrauding creditors.
A common and successful contrivance for this purpose, is by
placing the title of the property in the name of a third person, while the whole of the beneficial interest is in another,
thereby concealing it from the breditor, and embarrassing his
remedy against the property of the debtor.
The provision is designed to deter parties from engaging in
this contrivance, by subjecting the property, thus concealed in
the name of another, to the peril of being claimed and held by
him as his own. The question is one of State policy, in regulating the terms and conditions of holding and disposing of thie
property within the State, so as to encourage open and frank
dealing with the same, and to prevent concealed and covenous
trusts as a cover for defrauding creditors. It may be wise or
unwise; that we suppose is a question with which courts have
nothing to do, as the power of a, State to regulate the subject
is unquestionable, and in this respect the power in the Territory is the same.
It is insisted, however, that the nature or character of, the
property in question, impressed upon it by the law 6f Congress
providing for and regulating the sales of the public lands, takes
it Out of the system of municipal law which, it must be admitted, governs and controls parties in dealing with property in
general in the States and Territories. If this be so, it 6onsgtitutes certainly a very important *exception;.for it is, perhiaps,
not hazarding too much in saying that in the new States, and
in the Territories for many years after their organization, the.
largest portion of the real property owned and cultivated by
the inhabitants is held and enjoyed under a title similar to
that in question, namely, a patent certificate. And we ihayg,
I think, in respect to property in this predicament, ask, under
what system of laws is it to be held and regulated, if the municipal laws of the State are to be set asidef It is true, the
laws of Congress provide for and regulate the sale of the public
lands, and, in doing so, provide for this inchoate title to be
given to the purchaser, on paying the purchase-moiiey. And,
if any one undertakes to questoig this title, the law of Congress
is called in as the highest evidence of it. Thus far the law of

SUPREME COURT.
Irvine v. laral

et al.

Congress operates, of whatever nature or character that may
be. But beyond this, Whether A or B owns this inchoate
title, whether A has made a good sale and transfer of it to
another, or such a one as the municipal law will give efflect to,
are questions which do not concern the law of Congress or the
Federal authorities. They are questions arising purely under
the municipal laws. Whether the original purchaser who has
received the certificate has himself settled on the section under
it, or whether he has transferred it to another settler, are questions in which the Federal Government has no interest. They
belong to the State within which the lands are situate. Indeed, the land department so determined at an early day, and
in case of a dispute as to the ownership of the certificate, it
gives the patent to the person named in it, leaving the parties
to settle their disputes in the courts of law. The question in
this case- is not whether a title has been derived from the
Federal Government under the act of Congress-that title is
admitted, indeed it is that which gives value to the right in
dispute-the question is, ,who has acquired the right to the
property, after the title has been acquired from the Government; in other words, who owns this inchoate title secured
by the patent certificate? That is a question depending upon
local law. The point was well put by Judge Barbour, in delivering the opinion of -the court in Wilcox v. Jackson, (13
Pet.,-517.) "We hold," he observed, "the true principle to be
this: that whenever the question in any court, State or Federal,
is, whether the-title to land which had been once the property
of the United States has passed, that question must be resolved
by the laws of the United States; but that, whenever according to those laws the title shall have passed, then that property,
like all other property in the State, is subject to State legislation, so far as that legislation is consistent with the admission
that the title passed according to the laws of the :United States."
. Now, it is upon this principle that the lands held under the
patent certificate have become property in the State, and subject to its legislation, that they are subject to judgment and
execution against the owner; to conveyance by deed or devise;
to descend to his heirs at law on his decease, or to sale by a
court of probate to pay his debts. And it may well be asked,
if the title is thus subject to the municipal laws concerning
judgr ents and executions, deeds of conveyance, devises, of
descent, and of administration in the probate court, how the
title cal be exempt from the law of trusts? The general principles o. equity can no more be invoked in respect to them
than in r:'spect to either of the other matters referred-to, when
they havu been the subject of regulation by the local- law.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

57t

Sam~pion et al. v..Peasiee.

That law then becomes the rule of property to govern them,
the same as it governs the inheritance, or any other lawful
disposition made of it. We do not see the reason or propriety
of setting aside the local law in respect to this clasz of property
as to trusts, while it is admitted to regulate every other legal
disposition made of it; and I must theref'ore, for the reasons
given, dissent from the opinion of the majority of the court.

GEORGE R. SAMPSON A D LEwis W. TAPPAN, DOING BUSINESS
UNDER THE STYLE AND FIRM OF -SAMPSON & TAPPAN, PLAINTIFFS
IN ERROR, V. CHARLES H. PEASLEE,: COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS.
By the eighth section of the act of Congress passed 9n the 30th of July, 1846, (9
Stat. at L., 42, 43,) it is declared that if the appraiged value of imports which
have actually been purchased shall exceed by ten per centum or more the value
declared on the entry, then, in addition to the duties imposed by law on the
same, there shall be levied, collected, and paid, a duty of twenty per centum ad
valorem on such appraised value.
The true construction of this section is, that the additional duty 'of twenty per
centum is to be levied only upon the appraised-value, and not upon charges and
commissions added to it.
The day of the sailing of a vessel from a foreign port is the true period of exportation of goods. The Secretary of the Treasury so directed it to be done, as he
bad a right to do by law; and this cpurt concurs with, him in this, as being a
correct exposition of the statute.
.Where an importationwas alleged to be an unit, but divided into two invoices for
the sake of convenience, and entered of different values, each invoice must stand
upon its own footing; and the whole cannot be gveraged, so as to avoid the additional duty which is levied upon one invoice taken by itself.
Where an examination made by the merchant appraiser was such as is usually made
in buying and selling hemp in bales, and was satisfactory to the merchant appraiser, it was not open to the importer to show that he adopted a mode of examination.insufficient to detect fraudulent packing.or diversities in the qualities of
the different parts of the importation.

THis'case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the.district of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

was argaed by _Mr. Griswold and 2Wr. 1?everdy Johnson for
"It
the plaintiffs in error, and 'by Vl!r. Black'(Attorney General)
for the defendant.

Mir. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion pf the court.
This case has been brought to this cofhrt by a writ of error
fiom° the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of
'Massachusetts.

It is an action for money had and ,received. It was sued out
by the plaintiffs agaist the defendant, the collector of customs

