DECEMiBER TERM, 1857.

261

U. . v. Pacheco, U. S. v. Henshy, U. S. v. Bidwell, and U. S. v. Sunot et al.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANT, V. JUANA S. DE PACHECo.
UNITED STATES, APPELLANT, V.

SAMUEL J.

THE

THE
THE UNITED

HENSLEY.

UNITED STATES, APPELLANT, V. JOHN BIDWELL.
STATES, APPELLANT, V. ANTONIO SUNOT ET AL.

As the act of Congress passed on the 3d of 'March, 1851, does not specify the time
within which an appeal must be made to this court from the District Courts of
California, the subject must be regulated by the general law respecting writs of
error and appeals. Eituer party is at liberty, therefore, to appeal from such a
decree within five years from the time of its rendition.
Under the sixty-third rule of this court, au appellee in a case from California may
docket and dismiss according to that rule; but a new appeal may be taken at
any time within five years, or it may be that the record may be filed by the appellant at the same term at which a certificate or record had been filed by the
appellee, and the case dismissed.
After a case has been thus docketed and dismissed at the instance of an appellee
who is a claimant of land, if a patent should be taken out, it will still be subject
to be reviewed by this court at any time within the five years above mentioned.

THESE four cases are put together, because they were all covered by one decision of the court. They were cases-from California.
In the first, Mifr. Crittenden moved to dismiss the appeal.
1st. Because it was not taken during the term at which th
decree was rendered.
2d. To docket and dismiss pursuant to the sixty-third rule
of court.
fr. Crittenden offered with his motion a duly-certified transcript of the record; from which it appeared that the decree of
the District Court confi'ming the grant was made on the 22d
September, 1856, and that the United States appealed therefrom
at the next stated term, t6 wit 24th March,- 1857.
UNITED STATES)
H ENSaEY.J

In this case, 31r. Blair moved to docket and dismiss pursuant to the sixty-third rule of this court, accompanied by a
duly-certified transcript of the record; from which it appeared
that the decree of the District Court, confirming the grant, was
made 5th July, 1855, and that the United States appealed therefrom on the said 5th July, 1855.
UNITED STATES)

BIDW'ELL.

J

Mr. Blair moved to docket and dismiss pursuant to the sixtythird rule of court, accompanied by a duly-certified transcript

SUPREME COURT.
U. S. v. Pacheco, U. S. v. Hensley, U. S. v. 3idwell, and U. S. v. Sunot et al.

of the record; from which it appeared that the decree of the
District Court, confirming the grant, was made on the 16th of
July, 1855, and that the United States appealed therefrom on
the said 16th of July, 1855.
U.,IT2D STATES)
SUXOT ET AL.

J

_71r. Blair moved to docket and dismiss pursuant to the sixtythird rule of court, accompanied by a duly-certified transcript
of the record; from which it appeared that the decree of the
District Court, confirming the grant, was made on the 14th of
January, 1856, and that the United States appealed therefrom
on the 24th of March, 1857.
The opinion of the court refers to the first-mentioned case,
because the first reason given by .11'. Crittcndenwas peculiar to
that case; the second reason was common to all the cases.
Mr. Chief Justice TANE Y delivered the opinion of the rourt.
A motion has been made to docket and dismiss this case.
It appears, by a certified copy of the record in the District
Court of the United States for the northern district of California, that a decree was passed by that court on the 22d of September, 1856, confirming the title of ]acheco to certain lands
therein mentioned. No appeal was taken by the United States
at the term at which the decree was made, but an appeal was
entered at the next succeeding term, in March, 1857.
Pacheco by his counsel now moves to docket and dismiss the
case, upon two grounds: 1st. Because the appeal was not taken
at the term at which the decree was rendered; and, 2d. If the
appeal might legally be taken at the succeeding term, yet no
transcript of the record was filed here within the first six days
of the present term of this court.
The first question raised by the motion depends upon the
construction of the act of Congress of March 3, 1851, which
authorizes an appeal to this court in cases of this description.
The act gives the right in general terms to the party against
whom the judgment is rendered; and does not limit the time
within which the appeal shall be made; nor refer to any particular act of Congress by which the time shall be regulated.
It must therefore be governed by the judiciary acts of 1789 and
1803, which regulate writs of error and appeals to this court
from inferior tribunals. And by these acts the party may take
his appeal at any time within five years after the passing of
the decree by the inferior court. The appeal in question was
therefore made in time;. and this motion cannot be maintained
on that ground.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

263

U. S. v. .Pacheco, UT.S. v. Hensley,-U. S. v. Bidwell, and U. S. v. Sunot et aL.

The second reason assigned in support of the motion depends
upon the sixty-third rule of this court. Under this rule, the
appellee in a case from California is entitled to have the case
docketed and dismissed, if the transcript of the record is not
filed in this court within the first six days of the term next
ensuing such appeal; provided the decree of the court below
was rendered sixty days before the commencement of the said
term of this court.
As we have already said, the decree was rendered in September, 1856, and the appeal taken in March, 1857. Consequently
in this case to file a transcript
of the
the duty
itofwas
theappellant
first six days of the present term. This
within
the record
was not done. And it appears that no transcript of-the record
has yet been filed by the appellant. The appellee is therefore
entitled to have the case docketed and dismissed under the
rules above mentioned.
It is true he has not filed the certificate mentioned in the
rule, but has filed a full transcript of the record. But the transcript shows all of the facts which the clerk by the -rule is required to certify; and it has always been held by the court to
be equivalent to the certificate which the rule prescribes.
It is proper, however, to add in order to prevent mistake on
this subject, that the only 6ffict of docketing and dismissing a
case under this rule, is to enable the party to proceed to execute his judgment in the court below. It removes the bar to
further proceedings in that court, which the appeal created,
and does nothing more. And after the case has been docketed
and dismissed, the party against whom the decree was rendered, may still, at any time within five years from the date
of the decree take a new appeal in the inferior court; and if
he files the transcript of the record in this court within the
first six days of the-term next ensuing his appeal, the appeal
will be valid, and the case as fully before this court, for examination and revision, as if it had been brought here at the first
term. The act of Congress authorizes the appeal at any time
within five years, and the period allowed by law cannot be
shortened by any rule or practice of a court. Nor was it intended to be diminished by the rules in question. And when
an appeal is taken in the court bel6w, if the appellee desire a
speedy and final decision ot the controversy, it is in his power
to bring the case up tq the next succeeding term of this court.
Indeed, it sometimes happens, under this rule, that the court
permits the transcript of the record to be filed by the appellant, and the case docketed for argument, at the same term at
-which it had previously been docketed and dismissed on the
motion of the appellee. And where the appellant satisfies the

264

SUPREME COURT.
Spencer v. Lapsey.

court that the omission to file the transcript within the first
six days was not owing to any fault or negligence on his part,
the court has always allowed him to file it at the same term,
and docket the appeal for trial, without putting him to the expense and delay of another appeal.
It follows, from what we have said, that although the case
before us must be docketed and dismissed, yet this will not
prevent the United States from filing a transcript at the present term, and docketing the case for argument, if they can
show that the delay has not arisen from any fault or negligence on their part. And if they fail to do so, they may yet
take another appeal at any time within five years, and bring
here the decree of the District Court for examination and revision. And if the appellee, after the case is docketed and
dismissed, proceeds upon the decree of the District Court, and
obtains a patent for the land, his title will still be subject to
the decision of this court, if the Government shall hereafter
brino' up the case within the time limited by law.
Ve have deemed it proper on this occasion to enter into
this full explanation of the rule of court referred to, on account of the multitude of appeals which must unavoidably
come up from the District Courts of California, and -which, in
some shape or other, may be brought before this court, upon
motions to dismiss.

ELIPHAS SPENCER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOHN W.

LAPSLEY.

The judge of the District court of the United States in Texas had power to order
the record of a suit in which he was interested to be transmitted to the Circuit
Court of the United States in Louisiana.
A plea in abatement, filed in connection with pleas in bar, was irregular; and the
refusal oi the court below to allow the plea to be filed is not subject to the review of this court.
A contract for the sale of eleven leagues of land in Texas, issued before the
revolution, and subsequently located within the colonizing grant of Austin and
Williams, with their consent, and certified by the Secretary of State, was good
without the signature of the Governor.
So far as the land was within the colonizing grant of Robertson, his consent was
not necessary, the term of his grant having expired.
Where no organization of a colonial grant had taken place by the introduction of
settlerg, the land not occupied was open for public sale, with the consent of the
empresario, and the alcalde was a proper person to put the purchaser in possession.
That the survey was made before the order of survey was directed to the surveyor,
was not fatal to the grant. Any preliminary defects were cured by the patent.
The fairness of the grant cannot be investigated at law, at the instance of a third
party.
A power of attorney, authenticated before a regidor, proved by the handwriting
of the regidor and the assisting witnesses, held sufficient.

