506

SUPREME COURT.
Selden v. Mers et aL.

pants to seat themselves on them, and who abandoned them
as soon as the land was entered under their pre-emption rights,
and the speculation accomplished. Nothing could be more
easily done than this, if contracts of this description could be
enforced. The act of 1830, however, proved to be of little
avail; and then came the act of 1838, (5 Stat., 251,) which compelled the pre-emptor to swear that he had not made an agreement by which the title might inure to the benefit of any one
except himself, or that he would transfer it to another at any
subsequent time. This was preliminary to the allowing of his
entry, and discloses the policy of Congress, but it has no application in this cause, as this claim was founded on the act of
1834.
The contract preceding the entry made by Butler with Murrill was merely void; and so were the agreements of Wood
and Dickson for the float before its location. But after the
land was entered by Butler, he had power to affirm, his contract of sale at his option, by conveying the land, and which
sale bound Butler, and concludes Marks.
We order that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana be affirmed, with costs.

FRANCIS SELDEN, APbELLANT, V. LAWRENCE MYERS, PHILIP PIKE,

WALTER LENOX, AND JAMES C. MOGuIRE.
A person dealing with an unlettered man who can neither read nor write, and
taking from him a promissory note for the payment of money and a deed for
property, in trust, to secure the payment, is bound to show, when he seeks to
enforce them, that they, or the material parts of them, were read and fully explained to the party before they were executed, and that he fully understood
their meaning and effect.
If this fact is established by positive and unimpeached testimony, parol evidence
cannot be received, to show that the contract was different from that expressed
in the writings, or that nothing was at that time due from the party who executed the instruments.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States for the District of Columbia.

It was a bill filed by Selden, under the circumstances particularly stated in the opinion of the court. The Circuit Court
dismissed the bill, and Selden appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Coxe and MAIr. W~ebb for the appellant,
and by .Mr. Bradley for the appellees.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

50T

Seldm v. Hyere etal.

As this was a case depending entirely upon testimony, where
no general principle of equity jurisprudence was involved, the
arguments drawn from that testimony are'omitted.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court for the District of
Columbia.
It appears that the appellant, for some years before the execution of the instruments hereinafter mentioned, kept a restauraut in the city of Washington, and had considerable dealings with Lawrence Myers & Company, who are merchants in'
New York, and who, from time to time, had supplied him-with
liquors for the use of his restaurant. On the 31st of December, 1846, the appellant gave his promissory note for $1,246.68
to Lawrence Myers & Company, payable with interest on the 1st
of January, 1849, for value received; and on the same day he
executed a deed to Walter Lenox, of the city of Washington,
which recites that he is indebted to Lawrence Myers and Philip
Pike, of the city of New York, trading under the name of Law:
rence Myers & Company, in the sum of $1,246.68, for which
sum they held his promissory note, dated the 81st of Decem'
bdr, 1846, drawn to the order of the said Lawrence Myers &
Company, payable on the 1st of January, 1849, and that the
appellant was desirous to secure the payment of the said debt,
*andall interests and costs that may accrue thereon; and then
proceeds to convey certain real property in the city of Washington to the said Lenox, in trust; that in case the appellant
should fail to pay the said debt, or any part thereof, or any
proper costs or charges that may accrue thereon, then, at the
request of the holders of the said note, due and unpaid, to sell
the said premises, (or such part thereof as the trustee may deem
necessary to pay so much of the debt as shall be then unpaid,)
in such manner, after such notice, at such time and tlace, and
upon such terms and conditions, as the trustee shall deem most
convenient for the interest of all concerned, and convey the
same in fee simple to the purchaser.
This deed was -duly acknowledged by Selden, according to
law, before two justices of the peace for the county of Washington, and recorded among the land records of the county.
Some years after the expiration of the credit mentioned in
these instruments-that is to say, in 1858-the trustee, at the
request of Lawrence Myers & Company, adveitised the.premises to be sold on the 18th of July in that year; and thereupon
Belden filed this bill to obtain an injunction to stay the sale.
The bill states, that in 1845 the appellant had a settlement
of accounts with Lawrence M'ers & Company; and after the

SUPREME COURT.
Sdden v. Myers et al.

settlement, Myers, in order to enable him to carry on his business, agreed that the company would make advances to him
from time to time in goods or money, as he should need them,
provided he would give them his note for $1,246.68, payable
on the 1st of January, 1849; that he accepted the proposition,
and thereupon executed the promissory note above mentioned;
and afterwards, at the request of Myers, executed the deed of
trust
Lenox.
. Thetobill
further charges, that it was the distinct understanding of the parties that advances should be made to the amount
set forth in the note; but that only a small advance of about
two hundred dollars had afterwards been made, and that sum
diminished by sundry payments made by appellant; that the
property conveyed by him in trust was of much greater value
than the amount of the note; that be can neither read nor
write; and when he executed the deed, did not know that the
whole of said property was included, and was under the im'pression that it conveyed only a portion of it.
The bill further charges, that Lawrence Myers & Company
persuaded him to execute the deed with the intention to defraud him, and since its execution had refused to make advances to him in money or goods; that the west half of the lot
conveyed in trust was advertised for sale by the trustee, and
if the sale was allowed to proceed he would be injured and
defrauded.
The members of the firm of Lawrence Mfyers & Company,
and Lenox, the trustee, and McGuire, the auctioneer, were
made parties defendants to the bill.
The answer of Lawrence -Myers, who answers separately,
denies that the note was given for the purpose stated in the
bill, and states that it was given upon a settlement of accounts
for goods before that time sold to the appellant, and for the
amount which the appellant acknowledged to be then due;
that the deed was executed voluntarily, and with full knowled-e of its contents, and after it had been read and explained
to lim, and denies all fraud charged in the bill.
The respondent also denies that the property conveyed was
more than sufficient to pay the debt; that the east half of it
had been previously mortgaged, and had since been sold to pay
that debt, and the remaining half is not more than sufficient
to pay the debt due to the defendant. He admits that the appellant is entitled to a -credit of $119.70, with intereft from the
11th of September, 1845, on account of so much money received
on a note of a certain William Walker, assigned by the appellant to Lawrence Myers & Company.
The answer of Philip Pike, the other partner in the firm, is

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

509

,Sden r. Hyenr, et al.

substantially the same with that of Myers, as far as he has
knowledge. But he was not in Washington when the note
was taken and the conveyance made, and hid therefore no personal knowledge of that transaction.
And the answer of Lenox, the trustee,. states that be prepared the deed, at the request and accordifig to the instructions
of Lawrence Myers; that Selden and Myers. met together. at
his office,'on or about the day of the date of the.deed; that he
laid the note and deed before the parties; that he cannot charge
his memory that the entire deed, word for word, was read to
the parties, but avers that the description of the property conveyed, and the nature and purport of the deed, were mad&known
and explained to each of the parties, and so much read as was
necessary for that purpose; that the transaction was the subject of conversation between theparties in his presence; and
that Selden showed a clear knowledge of its character and purpose, and that it was declared by both parties that-it was a settlement between them of past dealings and accounts; and that
the note and deed were prepared -by him, and strictly conformed to the views of both parties, as made known to him by
each of them. They were not signed in his presencebut taken
away by Myers, in company with Selden. And he denies all
fraud and deceit charged in the bill.
Testimony was taken on both sides. On the part of Selden
several witnesses were examined, who state that, from conveysations between Selden and Myers, at which they were present;
about the time when the note and deed were executed, or
sh6rtly before the advertisement for the sale, they understood
that Selden owed nothing- to Myers & Company when they.
were given, and that they were intended to secure future supplies which Myers & Company were to furnish. But none of
these witnesses were present when they were executed, and
none of them know whether they were or were not read and
explained to the parties before they were signed. And, certainly, parol testimony is altogether inadmissible to show that
the contract was different from the one reduced to writing,
unless it can also. be shown that the party was fraudulently
deceived and misled as to'the contents of the written instruments.
It is true that Selden is an unlettered man, and can neither
read nor write. He makes his mark to the instruments he
executed; and, dealing with such a person, it is incumbent on
Myers & Company to show, past doubt, that he fully understood the 6bjeet and: import of the writings upon which. they
are proceeding to charge him; and if they had failed to'do so,
the above-mentioned testimony offered by the appellant, as to

SUPREME COURT.
Seiden V. My-*r ci al.

the state of the accounts between them at the time, would have
furnished strong grounds for inferring that he had been deceived, and had not understood the meaning of the written
instruments he signed. But the testimony offered by Myers
&Company is conclusive on this point. Lenox, who was necessarily made a defendant in these proceedings, was, by consent
of parties, examined as a witness on the part of Myers & Company, and in his testimony he confirms the statement made in
his answer in every particular. He proves that the parties
were together at his office; that they talked of their accounts
while there, and that Selden admitted that the balance due
from him at that time to Myers & Company was the amount
for which the note was given. He says, "I read so much of
it (the deed) to the parties as explained its object, the amount
of the note, and the description of the property, and the purposes; and it was admitted by both parties that it was right,
and.received from me as such by them together, and they left
my office for the purpose of exdcuting it." The testimony of
this witness is not impeached, nor his statement of facts contradicted by any witness for the appellant, and is therefore a
decisive answer to the allegations in the bill of the appellant.
Nor is there any -ground fbr supposing that Selden, in his
ignorance of accoun ts, was deceived or imposed upon as to the
balance actually due. The accounts of the dealings between
the parties up to that time have been produced by Myers &
Company, and proved to be correct by the clerks who were at
that time in their employment, and whose duty it was to keep
them; and these accounts show that the balance then due was
the amount for which the note was taken.
In this view of the subject, it is unnecessary to examine particularly the testimony of the different witnesses produced by
the complainant. They no doubt speak to the best of their
recollections; but every one knows how liable a party is to be
led into mistakes who hears casual conversations about accounts
in which he has no interest, and hdw liable they are to be mistaken, when some years have elapsed, both as to the particular
time when the conversation took place and the precise language used by the speaker. And the strong probability is,
that theconversations of which they speak, and in which they
understood Myers to admit that he had been paid, related to
the small transactions which took plact after these instruments
were executed; for it appears that liquors were supplied by
Myers & Company after this settlement, and for which Selden
made some payments; and this account, it appears, was not
adjusted and balanced when the property was advertised for
sle, and there was some controversy about it. The deposi-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

511

Ahl v. .Thnson.

tions of these witnesses were taken many years after the instruments of writing were executed, and after these conv~ersations
are supposed to have passed, and the accuracy of their recollection in such a matter can hardly be relied on as to'time or
language; and they, as well as Selden, who is an unlettered
man, and incapable of keeping accounts; and who does not
appear to have had any regular books kept by a clerk, would
most likely have but a'confused Tecolledtion of these conversations, and might, without any evil intention, confound what
had been said in relation to dealings subsequent to the note
with conversations which passed 'at the time it was executed.
And"this view of the subject is strengthened by the fact, that
although Selden states in his bill that he had a settlement with
the company of all accounts at that time standing unsettled between him and the firm, he does not state that nothing was
found due from him on that settlement, nor does he say that
the balance against him, if any, was paid. Hi statement of a
settlement is no doubt true; hut it is evident from the testimony that, upon that settlement, the sum claimed by Lawrence
Myers & Company was-found to be due, and the note and deed
given to secure it.
gVe see no reason, therefore, for disturbing the decision of
the Circuit Court dismissing the bill; and the decree must be
affirmed, with costs.

JOHN i..Amn',

APPELLANT, v. ROSWELL B. JOHNSON.

'Where there was a contract for the sale of a lot of ground, partly on time, and the
vendee entered into possession; and the vendor fdid not formally'de .and the
payment of the balance When due, but merely said he was ready to make a deed
when the money was paid; and after the time of payment had elapsed, the vendee made a tender of the sum due, which the vendor refused to receive; these
and other circumstances show that time was not of the essence of the contract,
and the vendee was entitled to relief upon a bill for a specific performance of the
contract.

THIS was an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Minnesota.
It was a bill filed by Ahl, under the circumstances stated in
the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mfr. Cooper for the appellant, and Mr.
Bradey for the appellee.
The principal point in the case was, whether time was of
the essence of the contract. Mr. Cooper contended that it
was not:

