DECEMBER TERP2,

1857.

45

fudgins et al. v. Kemp.

ROBERT HeUDGIrS, JoHN L. ITuDGINs, ELLIOTT W. HUDGINS, AND
REBECCA P. HUDGINS, EXECUTRIX OF ALBERT G. HUDGINS,
DECEASEDP APPELLANTS, V. WYNDHAM KEMiP, ASSIGNEE IN

BANKRUPTCY OF'JOHN L. IfUDGINS.
Deeds of large tracts of land made by. a grantor when deeply in debt, and when
suits were pending against him, and who shortly afterwards petitionecl for the
benefit of the bankrupt act, the possession and occupation of the land continuing
the same after the sale as before, and tht consideration money one-half only of
the actual value, held to be fraudulent and void as against creditors.
Exceptions to the master's report.respecting rents and profits not having been
taken in the court below, they cannot be sustained in this court.

THIS was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the eastern district of Virginia. The bill was
originally filed in the Circuit Court by Edmund Christian,
general assignee in bankruptcy in said district, on the 19th of
May,1845; and upon his death,Wyndham Kemp was appointed
assignee, on the 12th of May, 1852, by the District Court.
After that, Kemp prosecuted the suit.

On or about the 17th of.February, 1843, John'L. Hudgins
filed his petition in the District Court of the United States for
the eastern district of Virginia, praying that he might have thebenefit of the act of Congress of August 19, 1841, to establish
a uniform system of bankruptcy throughout the United States,
and that he might be deemed and declared a bankrupt under
said law; and the usual proceedings having been taken upon
said petition, the said John L. Hudgins was, on the 20th May,
1843, duly adjudged and declared to be a bankrupt; and Edmund Christian, the general assignee in bankruptcy in said
district, was thereuponi duly appointed, by said court, the assignee in bankruptcy of said John L. Hudgins.
Other proceedings were had in the District Court, which it
is not material here to mention.
On the 17th of May, 1845, the following points and questions
were adjourned to the Circuit Court for decision:
1. Is the allegation of the objectors to the discharge of the
bankrupt, that the deed executed by 'aid John L. kudgins,
bearing date the 1st day of March, 1842, to Elliott W. Hudgins,
conveyhig all the rest of his laud in York, not conveyed by a
previous deed of 6th September, 1889, is a fraudulent deed
vithin the meaning of the bankrupt law, sustained by the evi'dence in this cause? )
2. Is the allegati6n of the objectors, that the deed. executed
by said John L, Hudgins to Houlder Hudgins, dated 19th
July, 1842, stating a consideration of $4,000, is a fraudulent
deed within the meaning of the bankrupt law, sustained by
the proofs?
ed

46

SUPREME COURT.
Hudgins et al. v. Kemp.

3. Is the deed of the 21st February, 1842, in which John L.
Hudgins conveys to Robert Hudgins, for an alleged consideration of $5,000, his tract of land in Matthews county, proved
to be a fraudulent deed within the meaning of the bankrupt
law?
4. Are the allegations of the objectors, that the petitioner
concealed himself and his effects, so as to prevent the execution of process, and the deeds aforesaid were made for the
purpose of eloigning and removing his property so as to defraud
his creditors, shown to be true?
5. Whether it is proved that the said John L. Hudgins has
not made a true and faithful schedule of all his estate and property, nor a full and true statement of all the debts due hirfi?
6. Finally, whether the petitioner, on any or all of the above
grounds, ought to be refused a discharge from his debts?
On the 19th of May, two days after the above questions had
been adjourned to the Circuit Court, the assignee filed his bill
in that court, alleging that the conveyances above mentioned
were fraudulent and void, and praying that they might be set
aside. The proceedings which took place thereupon are set
forth in the opinion of the court.
On the 27th of June, 1855, the Circuit Court passed its final
decree, confirming the report of the master, and ordering
the property in question to be sold by the assignee. From this
decree the defendants appealed to this court.
The case was argued by lXr. Lyons and 1r. Johnson for the
appellant, and by Mr. Robinson and 31r. Patton for the appellees.
This being a case where much of the arguments was employed in the examination and comparison of evidence, only
the points raised upon each side can be mentioned.
For the appellants:
I. There is no proof of any fraud upon the part of Robert
Hudgins, but, on the contrary, the proof is clear and unquestioned, that he paid the cash price which his deed calls for, to
John L. iudgins, which, with the charges upon the property,
amounted to its full value. Neither is there any proof of fraud
in this transaction by John L. Hudgins.
II. There is an abortive attempt at such proof. But if it
were shown by the clearest proof that John: L. Hudgins bad
acted with the most covinous and fraudulent design in making
his conveyance, that design would not affect Robert Hudgins,
unless it was shown that Robert Hudgins participated in it, or,
at the least, had knowledge of it. A purchaser of property

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

47

Hugbu et al. v. Kemp.

for valuable consideration can never be.affected, and have his
title destroyed, because the vendor sold from a base motivethe motive to defraud his creditors--at least, unless he have
z
knowledge of the'motive.
lI[. Because a sale of property for valuable consideration,
even by an insolvent, is not in fact.or law a fraud upon any
creditor who is merely a creditor at large, the fraud, if any be
committed, consisting in the concealment or misapplication of
the money arising from the sale; and no purpose was manifested or even entertained to defraud, any judgment ,creditor,
because the deed upon its face conveyed the property subject
to the rights of the judgment creditor. "
IV. Whether the deed was void as to creditors or not, it was
good between the parties to it, and no decree should have beein
rendered, vacating the deqd, and directing a sale of the property,
until an account'had been taken of the debts, for the purpose
of ascertaining whether there were any unpaid and recoverable; and if; upon the report-of such account, it appeared that
there were such debts, the defendant, Robert Hudgins, had a
right to redeem his land by paying them, or so much of the
land might then have been sold as would satisfy them. It was
error to s.ell the whole land, without first ascertaining that there
were debts sufficient to absorb it, and without allowing the
defendant the privilege of redeeming it. I
*V. Because the judgment creditors had no right to do more
than extend the lands, unless it was shown, as it was not, that
the profits would not in a reasonable 'time' extinguish the
debts. But they had no right, because by prbof of their debts
before the commissioner the lien of the judgment was extinguished.
VI. It was error to charge Robert Hudgins with rents and
profits prior to the filing of the bill against him. Up to that
time, he held and claimed the property as his own, as a purchaser. for valuable consideration; and the utmost that the
plaintiff .could claim of him, would be the right of a judgment
creditor, and his right to rents and profits is never extended
retroactively beyondthe filing of the bill; and in this case the
error and injustice of the rule which has been applied to the
defendant is most remarkable and obvious.. The plaintiff
charges that the conveyance to the defendant was fraudulent,
and therefore he claims the right to recover of him the rent of
the property in one case, and the profits in another, upon the
ground that hehas actually enjoyed the..property in the one
case, and received the profits in the other; and yet the plaintiff
has taken testimony that the defendant did not occupy the
property for which rent is charged, but John T. Hudgins did;

48

SUPRE ME COURT.
Hudyins et al. v. Kemp.

and that is ielied upon as evidence of the fraud. Now, it cannot be true that he did not occupy it, and therefore merely
pretended to purchase it, and therefore has been guilty of a
fraud, and yet he did occupy it, and therefore is not guilty of
u fraud, yet the decree practically affirms both.
And in respect to the profits. The defendant is charged
with profits which there is no proof that he received.
VII. The plaintiff is seeking to recover debts, if he has- any
right at all, which were due primarily by Thomas Hudgins,
for which John L. Hudgins was security. Thomas Hludgins,
by his deed of the day of -,
conveyed a large amount
of property to trustees, for the benefit of those creditors, giving
them priority over the other creditors who are also secured by
the said conveyance. The creditors accepted the conveyance,
and took under it. The court should have required them to
account forthe property conveyed by that deed, before it authorized them to take the property of John L. Hudgins, if the
property in question was his, and still more, before it authorized them to take the property from another, who claimed it
as purchaser for valuable consideration, and certainly held it
by a title valid against John L. Iudgins.
The property thus conveyed may have been sufficient to
satisfy all the debts, and they may have been paid; the answers express the belief that they have been; an account of
the trust fund could only determine the point. By accepting
the deed, and taking under it, the creditors assumed the responsibility of fairly accounting for the property conveyed;
they cannot use, or hold subject to their use, the property of
Thomas Hudgins, and yet claim that-of John L. Hudgins, or
his vendor, for the same debts.
VIII. The decree, which is final, takes no notice of the
rights of Robert Hudgins, as against John L. Hudgins, and
makes no provision for the restitution to him of the surplus
which might remain of the proceeds of the sales of the property after satisfying the debts, although there may be such
surplus; and if there shall be, Robert fludgins is certainly entitled to it, because his title, if not good against the creditors
of John L. Hudgins, is good against every one else.
IX. The court did not pass upon the exceptions to the depositions, and therefore admitted the testimony excepted to.
The following authorities were relied upon in the argument:
Shirley v.. Lorg, 6 Rand., 736; Davis v. Turner, 4 Gratt.,
422; Blow v. Maynard, 2 Leigh, 29; Fones v. Rice, 9 Gratt.,
568; Ex parte Christy, 3 How., 292; Pettiplace v. Sales, 4
Mason C. C. R., 312; Hapkerk v. Randolph, 2 Brack. R.,
132; Randall v. Philip, 3 Mason 0. C. R., 378; Gregg v. Sayre,

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

49

fud ins et al. v. Kemp.

8 Pet., 244; Clough v. Thompson, 7 Gratt., 26; 1 Story Eq.,
p. 864; 1 Story Eq., 588; Dorr v. Shaw 4 John. Ch. R., 17;
Smith v. Burton, 13 Pet., 464.
For the appellee:
1. The decree is right, and ought to be affirmed. The deed
from Robert Hudgins to John L. Hudgins. was contrived of
fraud, with intent to defraud the creditors of the said John L.
Mudgins of their lawful debts, and was therefore properly'set
aside in toto, under the Virginia act in 1 R. C., 1819, p. 872,
C. 101, § 2; Ohamberlayne, &c., v. Temple, 2 Rand., 395;
Garland v. Rives, 4 ib., 282; Shirley v. Long, 6 ib., 785, and
other cases cited in 1 Rob. Pract., old ed., 512, .554; and under the bankrupt act of 1841. Sands, &c., v. Codwise, &e., 4
Johns., 559, also 582 to 600; Codwise v. Gelston, 10 ib., 517;
Arnold, &c., v. Maynard, 2 Story, 852; Hutchins v. Taylor,
&c., 5 Law Reporter, 289; Cornwel]'s appeal, 7 W. and S., 811;
McAllister v. Richards, 6 Barr, 183., For the assignee is not
only vested by the law with all the rights of the bankrupt,
but'with the rights of creditors also. He may set aside a
fraudulent conveyance of the bankrupt, which the bankrupt
himself could not do. McLean v. Lafayette Bank, 8 McLean,
189, 587; McLean v. Malane, &c., ib., 199; McLean v. Johnson, &c., ib., 202 ; Everett v. Stone, 8 Story, 456 ; Peckham -c.
Burows, ib., 544; Freeman v. Deming,. 8 Sandford's Oh. R.,
882; Shauhan, &c., v. Wherritt, 7 How., 627; Buckingham,
&c., v2.'cLean,

13 ib., 170

2. There is no error as to the rents and profits. An account
of rents and profits was decreed from the time of the act of
bankruptcy, in'Sands, &c., v. Codwise, &c., 4 Johns.,.589, 600.
On the same principle, it was proper here to decree rents and
profits from the filing of the petition; for "the act of bankruptcy in England is tantamount to a filing 6f the petition
under our statutes." McLean v. Malane, &c., 8 McLean, 200.
Th. pendency of the petition is 'constructive notice.thereof to
the grantee in the deed. Morse v. Godfrey, &c., 3 Story, 391.
If there was, before that time, a right in-Robert Hudgins to"
let'the avails or annual income be expended at his' discretion,
without responsibility to any one, there could be no such right
fterwards, (4 Johns., 588.) Under the-volunary system, the
assignee derives as much right to rents and profits from the
petition and decree, as he derives under the involuntary system from the act of bankruptcy and the decree.
8. Even if the decree of the Circuit Court were set aside,
there should.be a decree against Robert udgins for the purchase-money
unpaid at the time of the bankrupt's
'4
VOL. xx. remaining

50

SUPREME COURT.
Hudginr et al. v. Kemp.

petition, and the land held subject thereto, as well as to the
liens of the judgment creditors of John L. Hudgins.
Mr. Justice NELS(N delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal'from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States-for the eastern district of Virginia.
The bill was filed in the court below by the assignee in
bankruptcy of John L. Iudgins, against Robert Hudgins and
others, to set aside the conveyance of a large real estate
charged to have been made by the bankrupt to the said Robert,
in fraud of his creditors and.of the bankrupt law of the 19th
August, 1841. The deed of conveyance purports to have
been executed on the 21st February, 1842, but was not recorded till the 8th August following; and conveyed, for the
alleged consideration of $5,000, three tracts of land-one
tract of one hundred acres, one of nine hundred, and another
of seventy acres-being, in the aggregate, one thousand and
seventy acres, situate in the county of Mathews, State of Virginia. The bankrupt's place of residence was upon one of
the tracts. The deed of conveyance contained a clause that
thelands should be subject to any judgments that then bound
them by operation of law. John L. Hudgins, the grantor,
was heavily in debt at the time of the execution of the deed,
and judgments to a large amount were soon after recovered
against him. Executions were issued upon these judgments,
and the defendant endeavored, by various ways and contrivances, to conceal his person and property from the reach of
them. This was in the spring and summer of 1842.
On the 17th February, 1843, John L. Hudgins presented
his petition to the District Court for the benefit of the bankrupt act, annexing thereto a schedule of his debts and property-the debts exceeding $12,000; property none, except a
contingent interest in a deed of trust by T. Hudgins, for the
benefit of creditors. On the 20th May, 1843, the petitioner
was declared a bankrupt, and on the 19th September following
an order was made, providing for the creditors to show cause,
on a given day, why the petitioner should not have granted
to him a certificate of discharge from all his debts. The
creditors appeared, and resisted the discharge. Much testimony was taken on their behalf, tending' to establish the
fraudulent transactions of the bankrupt with Robert Hudgins
and others, which aie now relied upon to set aside the deed
in question. The opposition to granting the discharge resulted in the District Court adjourning several questions ot
law and fact to the Circuit Court, for its decision. What disposition was made of them in that court, we are not advised.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

51

•Hwuqdm et al. v. Kemnp.

The defendant, Robert Hudgins, in order to prove the payment of the purchase-money of the lands conveyed in the deed
of the 21st February, introduced two receipts from John L.
Hudgins-one for. $3,055, dated 6th August, 1844; the other,
12th August, same year, for $1,425-and proved the execution
-of the same by.witnesses, who counted the money and saw it
paid.
The several tracts of land conveyed were worth, as testified
to by witnesses, over $10,000, double the amount of the purchase-money. The possession and occupation of the same,
subsequent to the sale, seems not to have been changed. Indeed, John L. Hudgins, in his receipt of the payment of the
$1,425, 12th August, 1844, describes the land as being the
same as that upon which he resides, and has resided for years.
He and his sons have cultivated and improved the arable land,
cut and sold timber from the woodland, since the sale to the
defendant, Robert, the same as before, the latter apparently
exercising no control or acts of ownership over the property.
In the fore part of July, 1842, some four months after the
alleged conveyance, John L. Hudgins made application to certain individuals to borrow a considerable sum of mdney, to relieve himself from judgments and executions then pressing
upon him, and proposedgiviu a deed of these same lands, in
trust to the lenders, as security for the loan. The writings
'were prepared with a view to carry into effect this arrangement, and the defendant was present, assenting to it, without
disclosing that a conveyance had already been made to him.
A good deal of other evidence was given in the case, bearing
more or les3 upon the question of fraud, which it is not material to recite, and which will be found in the record.
The court below, on the 18th May, 1848, decreed that the
deed of John L. Hudgins, the bankrupt, to Robert, his brother,
of the 21st February, was fraudulent and void as against credI trs, and appointed the assignee in bankruptcy a receiver, to
take possession of the property, and directed that a master
should take an acc6unt of the rents ad profits from the petition in bankruptcy to the time when the receiver took possession. The master subsequently reported the" amount at the
sum of $2,820.26, and on the 27th June, 1855, a final decree
was entered. The cause is now before this court, on an appeal
from this decree.
It was scarcely denied on the argument, and, indeed, could
not be, that John L. Hudgins, the bankrupt, had been guilty
of a frauidulent contrivance to hinder and defraud his creditors
* on the execution of the conveyance in question; but it has
been strongly urged that Robert, the grantee, was not privy to

52

SUPREME COURT.
fudgins et al. v. Kemp.

the fraud, and hence was a bona fide purchaser for a valuable
consideration. We shall not, therefore, deem it material to
refer to any portion of the mass of evidence in the case, except
so far as it bears upon the connection of the grantee with this
question of fraud.
The answer of the defendant to the bill is not very satisfactory. The bill charges that the deed, though it bears date 21st
February, 1842, was really executed on or about the 2d of July
following, the time -it was put on record; and that it was antedated in pursuance of the fraudulent purpose charged against
the parties. The answer does not notice or deny this allegation. Again, the bill charges that the deed was not delivered
at the time -it bears date; nor, in fhct, delir'ered at all to the
grantee in any other way than the putting of it on record by
the grantor himself. This charge is not noticed or denied;
neither is the allegation denied, that the grantee remained in
the possession and enjoyment of the property after the conveyance, the same as before. And this averment, besides being
thus virtually admitted, is fully established by the proofs in
the case.
The consideration or purchase-money agreed to be given for
the three tracts of land conveyed was less than one-half the
value, as proved by uncontradicted testimony. The deed contained a clause, that the lands should be subject to any judgments that were then a lien upon them; and it was urged, on
the argument, that these judgments should be taken into the
account, on fixing the amount of the purchase-money. But
the answer is, that it does not appear, from any evidence in the
case, that judgments existed against John L. Hudgins at the
date of the deed. We have examined the proofs attentively,
and find none; nor have any been referred to in the briefs of
the counsel. It also appears that Robert, the grantee, some
four months after the date of his deed, and when the title to
the lands in question was in him, if the conveyance had been
really made at its date, was present, and participated in a
negotiation for a loan of money to' John L. Hudgins, and
which was to be secured by a deed from him of these very
lands, in trust, to the persons advancing the money.
The conduct of the defendant, Robert, in this instance, furnishes the foundation for a strong inference, either that the
deed had not then been executed and delivered, or, if it had
been, that the grantee held it for the use and benefit of John
L. iudgins, the grantor. In either view, the fact affords a
well-founded suspicion of the bona fides of the transaction between the parties.
In respect to the payment of the purchase-money, of which

DEOEMBER TERM, 1857.

53

Hudgins et al. v. Kemp.

very formal proofs have been given of the principal part of it,
the effect in support of the conveyance is very much impaired
by the fact that John L. Hudgins, in the schedule of his estate
alinexed to this petition in bankruptcy, 23d :February, 1843,
takes no notice of this indebtedness to him, by Robert, the
grantee, and the truth of the schedule is verified under oath.
This was a year and two days after the date of the deed, and
when the purchase-money was unpaid, if the facts are true, as
insisted by both the parties subsequently, upon the question
of payment. They now admit this did not take place till
August, 1844., No attempt has been made to account for or
reconcile this inconsistency, if not worse, on the part of John
L. Hudgins. Without pursuing the examination of the proofs
in the case further, We will simply say, that after the fullest
consideration of the facts -in the case, we are satisfied with
the conclusion arrived at by the court below upon this
question.
But it is insisted that, admitting the conveyance to be void
as it respects the creditors of John L. Hudgins, the court below erred in ordering a sale of the property, without having
first ascertained the debts of the bankrupt, and permitting the
grantee in the deed to redeem on paying them, or directing
only so much of the land to be sold as would be sufficient to
pay the debts.
The answer to this is, that the defendant, Robert Hudgins,
made no offer to pay the debts on ascertaining the amount,
and, for aught that appears, the whole of the property will be
no more than sufficient to pay the liabilities of the bankrupt.
If there should, by chance, be any surplus, it belongs to the
court in bankruptcy to dispose of it. Wtiether it should go
to the bankrupt or to his grantee, will be for that court to detennine.
It is also insisted, that the court below erred in decreeing
the rents and profits of the lands in controversy'against the
defendant, Robert Hudgins, for the reasons that it is not shown
that he was in the possession and enjoyment of the same; and,
also, that the court erred in decreeing these rents and profits
from the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, instead of from
-the decree declaring John L. Hudgins a bankrupt.
The short answer to each of these objections is, that no such
exceptions were taken-to the report of the master, and are
therefore not properly before us. That was the time and place
to have presented these questions, and the omission precludes
any question here on the matter.
The decree of the court below affirmed.

