SUPREME COURT.
Bank of Washington et al. v. State of Arkansas et al.

Same v. Same.

no such contract can be implied from the law, nor can this
court inquire whether the law operated hardly or unjustly upon
the parties whose suits were then pending. That was a question for the consideration of the Legislature. They might have
repealed the prior law altogether, and put an end to the jurisdiction of their courts in suits against the State, if they had
thought proper to do so, or prescribe new conditions upon which
the suits might still be allowed to proceed. In exercising this
latter power, the State violated no contract with the. parties;
it merely regulated the proceedings in its own courts, and limited the jurisdiction it had before conferred in suits when the
State consented to be a party defendant.
Nor has the State court, in the judgment brought here for
review, decided anything but a question of jurisdiction. It
has given no decision in relation to the validity of the contract
on which the suit is brought, nor the obligations it created, or
the rights of parties under it. It has decided, merely, that it
has no right under the laws of the State to try these questions,
unless the bonds given by the State are filed. The plaintiff
refused to file them pursuant to the order of the court, and the
case was thereupon dismissed, for want of jurisdiction in the
court to proceed further in the suit. There is evidently nothing in the decision, nor in the act of Assembly under which it
was made, which in any degree impairs the obligation of the
contract, and nothing which will authorize this court to reverse
the judgment of the State court.
The writ of error must therefore be dismissed, for want of
jurisdiction in this court.
The two cases of William A. Platenius, administrator of
James Holford, against the State of Arkansas,'in covenant,
are the same in all respects with the one above decided, and
must also, for the same reasons, be disesissed for want of jurisdiction.

THE PRESIDENT AND DIRECTORS OF THE BANK oF WASHINGTON,
AND HENRY S. AND FREDERICK S. HOLFORD, ADMINISTRATORS
OF JAMES HOLFORD, DECEASED, P AINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THE
STATE OF ARKANSAS, AND HENRY L. BRIsCoE, SNDFORD-O.
FAULKNER, AND JAMES H. WALKER. SAME v. THE STATE OF
ARKANSAS AND THE BANK OF THESTATE OF ARKANSAS.
A bill in chancery, purporting -to be a crass bill, filed under the same law of Arkansas which was mentioned in the preceding case of Holford's Administrator
v. The State of Arkansas, comes under the decision in that case, and must be
dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this court.

531

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Bank of Washington et al. v. State of Arkar~as et al.

Same v. Same.

THESE two cases depended upon the same principle, and a
report of the first winllapply equally to the second.
It was brought up from the Supreme Court of the State of
Arkansas by a writ of error issued under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by .r. _Pike for the plaintiffs in error, and by
Mr. Hempstead for the defendants.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity, brought in the Chancery Court of
the State of Arkansas, to recover the money due on or which
had arisen from, certain bonds issued by the State, to which
the complainants claimed to be entitled. The bill is drawn
out very much at length, and states particularly the bonds and
contracts on which the complainants are proceeding, and also
certain laws and acts of the State, which the bill alleges impaired the obligation of these contracts, and were fofbidden by
the Constitution of the United States. It is unnecessary, however, to state at large the contents of
the bill, or the particular contrasts and bonds to which it refers, because the decision of the State court dismissing the bill
has no relation to the validity of these contracts, -or to -the
rights and obligations which they created. The bill was dismissed by the State court upon-the same ground with the common-law actions above mentioned; and the appeal to this court
must be disposed of upon the principles upon which we have
dismissed the writs of error.
The bill was filed in November, 1854, and in February, 1855,
the attorney for the State moved the court to dismiss it, unless
the bonds upon which the complainants were proceeding were
forthwith filed according to the provisions of the act of December, 1854. The complainants put in written objedtions to the
motion, and finally refused to file the bonds. The court overruled the objections as. insufficient, and dismissed the bill.
. The complainants call their bill a cross bill. The bill filed
by the State, and which gave rise to this, is not set forth in full
in the transcript. The appellants in their bill refer to it, and
.state that it was filed by the State for itself and in behalf of all
the creditors of the Real Estate Bank; and that it claims for
the State a'right to share with other creditors of the bank in
certain assets of the bank in the hands of trustees, although
the bonds issued, by the State, which furnished the capital for
the. bank,'had not been- paid; .nd many of these bonds were
held by the appellants, who were creditors of the bank as well
as of the State.

582

SUPREM E COURT.
Barton v. Forsyth.

But this is not a cross bill in the chancery sense of the words;
the complainants, according to their own statement, were not
defendants in the suit brought by the State. They cannot,
therefore, file a cross bill, nor be regarded as defending themselves in that form of proceeding against the suit of the State.
Their bill is evidently a suit against the State and others, to
enforce the payment of money due on certain contracts made
by the State, and the State is made a party defendant in the
suit. And for the reasons assigned in the aforegoing cases at
common law, the judgment of the State court dismissing the
bill is not open to revision here. Like the cases at common
law, it was-dismissed by the State court for want of jurisdiction to proceed further, after the passage of the act of December, 1854.
The appellants have not sought to come in under the bill filed
by the State for itself and all the creditors of the Real Estate
Bank, and to share with the State the assets in the hands of
the trustees, who are assignees of the bank. iNor, indeed, could
they do so upon the allegations made in their bill; for they do
not claim a common interest with the State in the fund they
are pursuihg, but an adverse interest, and deny the right of
the State to share in it, and could not, therefore, come in and
associate themselves as complainants with the State in its creditor's bill -when they denied that the State was a creditor of
the fend.

The laws and proceedings on the part of the State may have
operated harshly and unjustly upon the appellants. But it is
not the province of this court to decide that question. Those
who deal in the bonds -and obligations of a sovereign State are
aware that they must rely altogether on the sense of justice
and good faith of the State; and that the judiciary of the State
cannot interfere to enforce these contracts without the consent
of the State, and the courts of the United States are expressly
prohibited fiom-exercising such a jurisdiction.
The case must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this
court; and the case of the Bank of Washington et al. against
the State of Arkansas, and the Bank of Arkansas, being confessedly an original bill, must be disposed-of in like manner.
JAME§ BARTON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ROBERT FORSYTH
Where there was an affidavit made, after verdict and judgment, that the affiant
was the real party in interest, and prayed to be substituted for, or admitted with,
the defendant, and the court overruled the motion, an exception to this ruling
will not bring up'the points which were raised at the trial; nor will it bring up
'lie ruling upon the motion.

