DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

467

.Roberts v. Cooper.

But the equitable as well as the legal considerations involved
in the cause, are to be 6onsidered. The effect of the judgment
is to adjust the legal and equitable claims of the parties to the
subject of the suit.
The subject of the suit is not merely the amount of rent
claimed, but the title of the respective parties to the land under the contract. The contract shows that the matter in dispute was valued by the parties at eight thousand dollars.
(Bennett v. Butterworth, 8 How., 124.) We think this court
has jurisdiction. Judgment affirmed.

ENOCH 0. ROBERTS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JAMES M. COOPER.
This court again decides, that after a case has been brought here and decided, and
- a mandate issued to the court below, if a second writ of error is sued out, it
brings up for revision nothing but the proceedings subsequent to the mandate.
The deposition of an officer of the General Land Office, as to the opinions an
practice prevailing in that office, cannot be read to the jury as proof of the law,
although it might have influence with the court in explaining the law to the
jury. !
The ancient English doctrines respecting maintenance or champerty have not found
favor in the United States; and in Michigan (where the land lies which is involved in the present controversy) its application to sales, by one out of possession, has been annulled.
Although, in that State, an agreement to carry on a suit upon condition of receiving a share of the 'proceeds might be void, yet the rule would not apply to a
transfer of the legal estate to one, in trust for himself and the other stockholders
in a corporation. .

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Michigan.
It was the same case which was before this court at December term, 1855, and is reported in 18 Howard, 173.
A venire de novo having been ordered, the case came up
again for trial, on the circuit, in June, 1856. The result was
a verdict and judgment in favor of Cooper, the lessor of the
plaintiff in the original action.
The bill of exceptions stated that an agreed state of facts,
dated Washington city, April 17th, 1854, signed by S. F. Vinton for plaintiff, and Truman Smith for defendant, with all
the papers therein referred to and thereto annexed, was read
in evidence to the jury, a true copy of which statement, with
the papers thereto annexed, is hereto appended.
And there-yvas also put in evidence, and read 'to the jury, a
staternent and stipulation, dated June 24th, 1856, and signed
by S. F. Vinton for the plaintiff, and T. Romeyn for the defendant, together with the papefrs therein referred to and at-

468

SUPREME COURT.
Roberts v. Cooper.

tached thereto, a true copy of which statement, with a copy of
all the papers thereto annexed, is hereto appended. The plaihtiff objected to the reading. of the deposition of John Wilson,
and the court excluded the same from the jury, to which ruling
the defendant excepted.
The defendant then produced and offered to prove a deed of
release from Alfred Williams and wife to the Minnesota Mining Company, dated June 20th, 1856, covering the lands in
controversy; and further offered to prove, in conniection therewith, that at the time when the said Cooper obtailed the deed
of the premises in controversy from Alfred Williams, the Minn esota Mining Company was in actual and open possession of the
same, claiming title under their patent from the United States,
and that the said Cooper knew of such claim. and occupancy
before and at the time of his purchase, and of said conveyance;
that he obtained said title from Alfred Williams, he being the
naked trustee of John Bacon, and that all the negotiations for
the said purchase, and the purchase itself, were had between
said Cooper and Bacon, the said Williams acting under the
directions and for the benefit of said Bacon, and having or
claiming no personal interest in said lands; that said purchase
and conveyance were made for the following purpose, namely:
That said Cooper should hold the same in trust for a corporation known as the National Mining Company, all of whose
stock was held by said John Bacon; and by the conditions of
said sale, the said Cooper was to receive, and did receive, with
said conveyance, six-tenths of the stock aforesaid, and the said
Bacon was to retain, and did retain, four-tenths of said stock.
That the said Cooper purchased said stock, and took said conveyance, with a full knowledge of the claims and occupancy
of the Minnesota Mining Companiy, and with the intention of
prosecuting the title purchased by him, by legal proceedings
in this court against the Minnesota Mining Company, for the
benefit of the iational Mining Company; and that before said
conveyance was delivered to him by said Williams, the said
Cooper, in conjunction with the said Bacon, applied to counsel
in the city of Detroit, to employ such counsel in the litigation
aforesaid, which was to be had with the Minnesota Mining Company-to which evidence the plaintiff objected, and the court
excluded the same-to which the defendant excepted.
The bill of exceptions tthen stated sundry prayers offered by
the-defendant upon points which were covered by the decision
of this court in 18 Howard, and which it is not thought necessary to 'insert.
The defendant further requested the court to charge the jury,
that if. when said Williams conveyed to said Cooper the pren-

)DECEMBERTERM, 1857.

469

RobertA v. Cooper.

ises in question, the-said Minnesota Mining Company was in
actual and open possession of said lands, claiming title thereto
under their patent, the said conveyance was void in law against
the said company and all claiming under them; which instructions the court refused to give, and to this ruling the defendant excepted.
Upon these exceptions the case came up to this court, and
was argued by Mr. Truman Smith and Mr. 1?everdy Johnson for
the plaintiff in error, and ihir. Vinton for the defendant.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error made the following,
points:
I. The plaintiff in.error, whb was the defendanht below, should
have a rehearing accorded to him on the whole case, irrespective of the former decision.
1. The statute of Michigan gives to the defendant in ejectment an opportunity for a new trial before he is dispossessed.
(Mich. Rev. Stat., 492.)
On a revision of the case, the party is to be heard at large,
both as to the law and fact. Besides, in this case, the former
verdict and the intermediate rulings were all in favor of the'
defendant below; and therefore it might well happen that he
did not (as the fact was) introduce all the evidence at his com.mand, nor take all the' available grounds of defence.
2. In this case, the court was obliged to deal With questions
arising under the acts of Congress, -which treat of a peculiar
subject in a new and special manner, and therefore it could
not, avail itself of the aids of familiar practice and analogous adjudication, usually at command in disposing of cases
arising under our land laws, and often throwing much light on
the path to, satisfactory results. The court, on the former occasion, without knowing, or having any means of knowing,
what had been the contemporaneous construction of the act of
March 1st, 1847, and what had been the uniform action and
course of the Executive in carrying that act into effect, could
only look to the terms in which it is conceived; and as it is,.
to some extent at least, wanting in perspicuity, it is no matter
of surprise that a contrariety of opinion should have existed on
the bench, or that the court should have arrived at conclusions
with some difficulty and hesitation. The new lights alluded
to now appearing, on the deposition of the late Commissioner
Wilson, and the court being informed that all these lease titles
stand. on precisely the same footing, it can hardly fail to realize the propriety of giving the 'act of March 1st a careful reexamination, before it adopts as irreversible a construction

470

SUPREME COURT.
Roberts v. Cooper.

which must subvert numerous titles, and involve in ruin millions of capital. The circumstance that there are numerous
properties to be deeply affected by the judgment of the court,
where the parties interested have no opportunity to be heard,
constitutes a strong reason for according to the plaintiff in
error a rehearing, without prejudice-thus realizing one of the
principal objects of the statute alluded to.
8. On -acareful analysis of the record, it will be found to
involvea. Two questions arising out of objections, made on the former hearing by the present plaintiff in error, to the title of the
defendant in error, based on the compact with Michigan for
school lands, or rather on the terms in which that compact is
expressed; which objections stand on this record precisely as
they stood before; and which, having been fully considered
and disposed of adversely to the present plaintiff, are not now
renewed.
b.A question arising out of an objection made by the same
party to the title of the present defendant, based on the laws
of the State of Michigan, which will be renewed for the purpose of submitting acts of the Michigan Legislature that escaped notice on the former hearing, and have, it is conceived;
a most important bearing on the matter in issue.
e.A question on the construction to be given to the compact between the United States and Michigan, relative to school
lands, insisted on by the defendant in error at the former hearing, and constituting an objection to the title of the Minnesota
Mining Company, which was, impliedly at least, overruled by
the court, and will doubtless be now renewed; therefore the
subject must be re-examined by us (the counsel for the plaintiff in error.)
d. A question on the construction to be given to the acts of
Congress of March 1'st, 1857, and September 26th, 1850, which
the defendant in error contended, and which a majority of the
court held, to be fatal to the title of the plaintiff in error. This
question will be re-examined in connection with new and very
material facts, appeAring on the record, which change, it is conceived, the whole aspect of the case. It will be insisted, that
if there be anything in this objection, neither the Minnesota
Mining Company nor the defendant in error have any title
to the lands in dispute, that they remain and are public land,
and consequently the defendant in error cannot recover.
e. A,question on the admissibility of the evidence offered by
the plaintiff in error on the trial'below, to show that the deed
by which the defendant in error derived title was void, by reason of a champertous agreement made by and between him

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

471

Roberta V. Cooper.

(the defendant in error) and John Bacon, in equity the owner
of the property in dispute.
f. A question as to the regularity of the verdict and judgment below, and whether the former should not be set aside,
and the latter reversed, for reasons which appear of record.
4. The circumstance that the court was not full on the former occasion, and that ther6 was a divided opinion, in connection with the vast interests'at stake, constitute strong reasons
why there should be a rehearing without prejudice.
[The second, third, fourth, and sixth points are omitted, as
being covered by the decision in 18th Howard. The fifth referred. to that part of the bill o. exceptions which involved the
charge of champerty.]
It is difficult to condeive a more aggravated case of champerty. Hence we insist that the deed from Williams and wife
to Cooper, executed at the request of Bacon, in performance
of this corrupt agreement on his part, was utterly void; and
that therefore the evidence was clearly admissible.
Before the enactment of the revision of 1846, by the Legislature of Michigan, it was held, in conformity with the principles of the common law, by the courts of that State, that a
grant of land is inoperative and void, if, at the time of the'
grant, such landis in the actual possession of another, claiming under a title adverse to the grantee. (1 Doug. Rep., 19,
88; Buckner's Lessee v. Lawrence; ib., 546, 566; Stockton v.
Williams, Walker's Oh. Rep., 260; Godfrey v. Desbrow.)
But by the revision of 1846,-tit. xiv, ch. 65, sec. 7, the.Legislature enacted, that "no grant' or conveyance of land, or interest therein, shall be void,, for the reason that, at the time of
the execution thereof, such lands shall be in the actual possession of another claiming adversely." By this provision, the
Legislature undoubtedly abolished s'o much of the common
law of the State as inhibited the purchase,. under the circumstances named, of disputed titles; but it is submitted that they
did not abrogate the common law on the subject of ehamperty.
It is believed that the .following remarks, to evince the invalidity of the deed from Williams and wife to Cooper, will not
be deemed inappropriate:
1. What is champerty at the common law? "It is," says
Lord Coke, (in his Com. on Litt. Ins., 368 b,) "to maintain to
have a part of the land, or anything out of the land, or part of
the debt, or other thing in plea or suit; and this is caripiparda, or champer e. The circumstance that the champertous
agreement is a verbal one makes no difference; for Fitz. lNat.
Brev., 171, A, says, that 'the writ of champerty lieth where a
man, by covenant or agreement, made by writing or by word,

472

SUPREME COURT.
Roberts v. Cooper.

agreeth to have a part of the thing, or land, or debt, which' is
in suit, that shall be recovered if the party recover, to maintain and aid him in the action and in the manner for which be
sueth.' (a.) 'Then he who is grieved shall have this action
against him who maintaineth the suit for the same intent.'"
The author then proceeds to give the form of the writ which
is not material to the argument, and therefore is omitted.
"Champerty is the most odious species of maintenance." (Gomyns, Dig., tit. Maintenance, A 2.) "If he who maintains
another is to have, by agreement, apart of the land pr debt, &c.,
in suit, it is called champerty," (ib.;) "or if he agrees to have a
rent or other profit out of the land," (ib.,) "though the agreement be by -parol or deed." (Ib.) Blackstone, in his Com.,
vol. 4, p. 135, speaks of these champertors as "the pests of civil
society,. that are perpetually endeavoring to disturb the repose
of their neighbors, and officiously interfering in other men's
quarrels, even at the hazard of their own fortunes ;" and he
adds, they "were severely animadverted on by the Roman law."
2. Champerty is an offence at the common law, irrespective
of the old English statutes on the subject. (Com. Dig., tit.
Maintenance, A 2; 4 Kent. Com., p. 449; Story's Eq. Com.,
sec. 1048; 3 Greenl. Ev., sec. 180; 1 Russell on Crimes, 180;
3 Vesey, jr., 449, Wallis v. The Duke of Portland; 11 Mass.
Rep., 549,-Sweet v. Poor; 5 Pick. Rep., 348, Brinley v. Whitney; ib., 353, per Parker, C. J.; 9 Metc. Rep.,.489, Lathrop v.
Amherst Bank; 22 Wend. Rep., 403, Small v. Mott; ib., 405,
406, per Walworth, Ch.; 1 Ham. Rep., Ohio, 132, Key v. Vattier; 13 ib., 175, Weekly v. Hale; 4 Litt., 417, Rust v. Larne;
5 Alour., 416, Brown v. Beauchamp; 3 S. and M. Rep., 130,
Sessions v. Reynolds.)
8. Champerty is malum in se at the common law, and was so
held to be by Bracton before the enactment of the statutes; (3
Edward I, ch. 28, and ch. 83; and 28 Edw. I, ch. 11, per Walworth, Ch., 22, Wend. Rep., 406.) That learned Chancellor,
after denouncing champerty as the worst specres of maintenance, and after admitting that the revised statutes of New
York had in a general degree abrogated the law of maintenance, adds: "I do not think, however, that an agreement actually champertous, as when a stranger to the subject of litigation,
who has no interest therein in law or equity, or in expectancy
by the ties of blood or affinity, agrees to assist in embroiling
his neighbor in litigation, or in carrying their suits through
the diftgrent courts after they are commenced, upon a stipulation that he shall receiye a share of the fruits of the -litigation
as a reward for his mischievous interference, can be enforced
in courts of justice."

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

473

Bobertm-v. Cooper.

4. The courts in this country have uniformly pronounced
against the validity of all contracts or transactions tainted
-with champerty. In Massachusetts, 11 Mass. Rep., 549, Sweet
v. Poor; 5 Pick. Rvp., 848, Brindley v. Whiting; 9 Metc. Rep.,
489, Lathrop v. Amherst Bank; in New York, 2 Sand. Supr.
Ct. .Rep., 141, Satterlee v. Frazer; 5 John. Oh. Rep., 44, Arden
v. 15atterson; 22 Wend. Rep., 403, Small v. Mott; in Ohio, 1
Ham. Rep., 132, Key v. Vattier; in Kentucky, 8 B. Mon. Rep.,
488, Thompson v. Warren; in Alabama, 9 Ala. Rep., 755, Byrd'
v. Oden; 17 ib., 206, Elliott v. MoOlelland; 24 ib., 472, Wheeler
v. Pounds; in Mississippi, 7 S. and M., 130, Sessions v. Reynolds; 11 ib., 249, Doe v. Ingersolls; in Tennessee, 11 Humph.
Rep., 189, Wilson v. Nance; 10 ib., 342, Morrison v. Draderick; and in Illinois, 11 Ill. Rep., 558, McGoon v. Ankeny. In
Dishler v. Dodge, 16 How. Rep.- S. C. *U. S., 622; ib., 632,
683 645, where Dodge, the defendant in error, treasurer, and
tax collector of Cuyahoga county, Ohio, had distrained the
amount due for taxes from certain banks in bank notes, and
had deposited such notes with the Cleveland Insurance Com-,
pany, and where the banks had subsequently united in a written and absolute transfer of these notes to the plaintiff in error,
who brought replevin, it was held by two of the justices of this'
court (Catron and Daniel) that the transactiqn was "disreputable," and the transfer void for champerty. But if, in place of
making an absolute sale, the banks had transferred the notes
on an express agreement that Dishler should institute an action,,
prosecute it to consummation, and divide the results as in this,
case, would not the whole court have united in pronouncing
the transfer corrupt, and the title thus attempted to be acquired
a nullity? It was precisely because the transfer was absolute,
and the banks had, or were-to have, no remaining interest, that
the majofity of the court upheld the transaction.
5. Champeriy being deemed immoral, and at the common
law rendering all .contrdcts. or transactions tainted therewith
null and void,, it is to be presumed flat the common-law rule
on that subject obtains in-the State of Michigan. "But if
maintenance or champB#ty -says Oh. J. Parker, (1 Pick. Rep.,.
417, Thurston v. Pereival,) is malum in se, or an offence at
common law, it is to be presumed, without any statute, that
the same law is in force there;" that is to say, in the State of
New York. 'But we -are not left to presumption in this case;
for the Supreme Court of Michigan--have held expressly that
the common law is in force in that State, except so far as it is
repugnant to or inconsistent with its Constitution or statutes.
(2 Doug. Rep., 184, Stout v. Keyes; ib., 515, Rue High, appellant; ib., 528, per Wing, J.) And they have particularly recog-

474

SUPREME COURT.
RobirtM v. Cooper.

nised and enforced the common law, on the subject of maintenance and champerty, in that State. (1 Doug. Rep., 19; ib.,
38, Buckner's Lessee v. Lawrence; ib., 566, Stockton v. Williams.)
6. The statute of Michigan, Rev., 1846, tit. xiv, ch. 65, sec.
7, p. 263, did no-more than remove the illegality of a conveyance when there was-an adverse possession. It did not touch
the illegality of an agreement tainted with champerty, nor
make a deed, executed in conformity with such agreement,
valid. The statute merely allows a grantee, in a caqe of adverse
possession, to recover, in his own name, what the law, as it previously stood, permitted him to do, in the name of his grantor.
( Doug. Rep., 546, Stockton v. Williams; 5 Pick. Rep., 348,
Brinkley v. Whiting; 8 B. Mon. Rep., 368, Ring v. Gray; 11
Humph. Rep., 189, Wilson v. Nance.)
7. The authorities show that the offence of champerty is quite
'distinct from that of the illegality of buying a title in a case of
adverse possession. This distinction is recognised in this country, both in statutory enactments and by the decisions of the
courts. Thus, in Ohio, it is held that a conveyance of land,
in the adverse possession of another, is not void, (15 Ohio Rep.,
156, Cressinger v. Welch;) but that the aid of the courts will
not be given to sanction and enforce champerty or other contracts, contrary to public justice and to the peace and happiness of the community. (1 Ham. Rep., 132, Key v. Vattier.)
There can be no champerty without an adverse possession; but
in Michigan there may be a sale or conveyance where there is
an adverse possession, either with or without champerty. In
the latter case, the deed is made valid by the statute referred
to, and in the former it is void at the common law. In England, and in most of the States of this Union having laws
against buying disputed titles, the question of champerty can
hardly arise as in this case; but the statute of Michigan, having enabled a party disseized to convey notwithstanding, we
now find a champertor in court, invoking the judgment and
process of the court to consummate the illegality. Will the
court aid him? In ordinary cases, the champertor merely contracts to pay or contribute to the expenses -of a lawsuit commenced, or to be commenced, in the name of the party with
whom the arrangement is made, in consideration of a share of
the proceeds; but Blackstone, in his Commentaries, (4 vol., p.
135,) says, "that, in our sense of the Ford," champerty "signifies the purchasing of a suit, or right of suing;" and then he
adds: "No man should purchase any pretence to sue in another's right." Quoted and approved by Catron, J., in 16
How. Rep. S. 0. U. S., 633.) "I am not aware," says the

DECEMBER. TERM, 1857.

475

Roberts v. Coqper.

learned judge, "that this, as a general rule, has been disputed.'
Certainly not, if the case involves a division of proceeds; and
-this is exactly what Mr. Cooper has done. The law of chainperty does not require an obligation to pay the costs of the suit,
or a contribution in cash to the expenses of the litigation, to
constitute the-offence; but professional dr any other aid, in
consideration of having a part of the subject or thing i controversy, is sufficient. (Vide opinion of Green, J., Backus v.
Byron, Appendix B.) In this case, Cooper has made himself
liable for all the costs, and assumed all-the expenses, by taking
a deed of the propert-y, and instituting a suit in his own name.
.Surely the court will not hold that a champertor can elude the
imputation arising in the case, by taking a conveyance and
making himself plaintiff in a lawsuit which he prosecutes on
-shares. Champerty will have free course in Michigan if that
can. be done. The pains and penalties inflicted by the laws of
that State on champerty, as a crime at tl-e common law, (vkde
opinion of Green, J., Backus v. Byron, Appendix B,) will amount
to nothing.
8. The principles here indicated are fully sustained by a recent decision of the Supreme Court of Michigan, (vide Backus
v. Byron, Appendix B.) The opinion given by Judge Green
recognises and establishes the foilowing propositions:
1. That-the common law-on the subject of champerty is in
'full force in Michigan, and makes all contracts tainted with it
void.
2. That it is not necessary to constitute the offence, that the
party should obligate himself to pay the taxable costs of a suit,
or to contribute to the expenses of the litigation in cash.
3. That champerty as a crime At the common"law is to be
visited with pains and-penalties under and by virtue of a statute of that State. (Revision 1846, tit. xxx, ch. 161, see. 22.)
-The learned judge'was the revisor of the statfites of 1846,
and is likely to know whether the Legislature intended to set
aside or abrogate the law of champerty. Thepositions assumed
in Backus v. Byron are 'so ably reasoned and so thoroughly
sustained by authority, that it will be superfluous to add another word on -the general subject. (For many authorities,
both English and Americm, not hereinbefore qu6ted, see the
opinion of Judge Green.)
9. If there ever was a case calling for a rigorous application
of that law, it is this. The Minnesota Mining Company were
in -possession of the premises in good faith, relying on the construction given- to the act of- 1847 by the authorities of the
United States, without -the slighest-suspicion that Michigan
could or would advance pretensions under the school-land
-

476

SUPREME COURT.
Roberts v. Cooper.

compact, and had made costly improvements on the same,
when such premises were put up at auction at Lansing, behind
their backs, and bid in for a song. Cooper must have been
cognizant of all the facts. He knew the situation of the property, and that the claims of Bacon would meet with stern resistance. With his eyes open, after having consulted counsel,
he deliberately entered into a copartnership of champerty with
Bacon, and now asks the interposition of this court to enable
him and his associate to realize the object and end of the corrupt arrangement. What is particularly aggravating in the
case is, the certainty that Bacon could not secure his unjust
acquisition by a suit in the name of Williams. His recent
deed to the Minnesota Mining'Company evinces pretty clearly
what the course of the latter would have been, on being informed of the true character of the transaction. He would
have arrogated equitable powers, and done j ustice to the parties.
10. If the deed from Williams to Cooper was void for champerty, then we have a perfect title, (even though we are overruled on other points,) by reason of the deed from Williams
and wife to the company, of June 26, 1856, and it is submitted
that the testimony offered should have been admitted, and the
judgment below should be reversed for its exclusion.
The counsel for the defendant avoided a reargument of the
points decided in 18 Howard, but upon the new matter made
the following points:
Taking these facts in detail, the first question presented is,
whether the deed from Williams to the Minnesota Mining
Company was properly rejected.
This deed from Williams bears date since his deed to Cooper,
and since the decision of this court affiriniig the validity of
Cooper's title. The record also shows that Williams was a
naked trustee of the legal title, and conveyed to Cooper, at the
request of Bacon, who was in equity-the owner of the land.'
The subsequent conveyance, therefore, of Williams, without
authority from Bacon, to the Minnesota Mining Company,
who well knew the fact of the prior conveyance to Cooper, and
the relation Williams sustained to the title, was in law a fraudulent act of both grantor and grantee, and could pass no title
if his former deed was valid, and had conveyed the land to
Cooper. (City of New Orleans v. De Armas, 9 Pet., 236;
United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet., 738.)
A grant is an extinguishment of the right of the grantor,
and therefore he and all claiming under him are always estopped by the grant. (Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87; "Terrett
v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43; Pollard's Lessee v. Hogan, 3 How., 212.)

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
RPber

477

v. Cooper.

2. The next fact offered in proof in connection with said
deed from Williams to the Minnesota Mining Company was,
that said company when Cooper purchased was in possession
of the land, claiming title to it, and that he before and at the
time of the purchase knew of such claim And occupancy. .
It is iot necessary to consider waether at common law a
deed would be void for maintenance which conveyed land in
the adverse possession of another, since the statute law of Michigan
recognises
the validity of such conveyance. •
0 Theexpressly
following
provisions
having a bearing on-that subject
will be found in the laws of Michigan:
"Conveyances of land or any estate or interest therein may
be made by deed signed and sealed by the person from whom
the estate or interest-is intended to pass, being of lawful age,
or by his lawful agent or attorney, and acknowledged or proved,
and recorded, as directed in this chapter, without any other
act or ceremony whatever." (Revised Code of 1846, p. 262.)
"No grant or conveyance of lands or interest therein shall
be void, for the reason that at the time of the execution thereof
such lands shall be in.the actual possession of another claiming.
adversely." (Page 268.) And at page 4490, title Ejeotment, is
the following provision:
,'It shall not be necessary for the plaintiff to prove an actual
entry under title, nor actual receipt of any, profits of the premises demanded, but it shall be sufficient for im to show a right
to the possession of such premises at the time of the commencement of the suit, as heir, devisee, purchaser, or otherwise."
From these enactments it is plain that the possession of the
Minnesota Mining Company, under claim of title and Cooper's
knowledge of it when he purchased, cannot affect the validity
of Williams's conveyance to him.
A short time prior to their passage, and which no doubt gave
rise to them, the courts of Michigan had decided that a conveyance of land held adversely was void. (Buckner's Lessee
v. Lawrence, 1 Doug. Mich. Rep., 88; Godfrey v. Desbrow,
Walk. Mich. Ch. Rep., 266; Root v. Chapin, same vol., 79;
Hubbard v. Smith, 2 Mich. Rep., 212.)
. 3. The remaining fact offered in proof in this connection
was, that.2Bacon, being the owner in equity of the land, sold it
to Cooper in trust for the National Mining Company, and that
Williams, his trustee, by his direction, conveyed it to Cooper
in trust for said company; and that he, Bac6n, was also the
owner of the whole capital stock of said National Mining Company, six-tenths of which he sold and transferred fo Cooper,
retaining the other four-tenths;. and that when -he took the
conveyance of the land, he intended to bring suit against the

SUPREME COURT.
oerts v. Cooper.

Minnesota Mining Company for the beniefit of the National
Mining Company; and before the conveyance was delivered to
him by Williams, he, in conjunction .with Bacon, applied to
counsel to employ such counsel in such suit.
When the statute allowed a purchaser to take a conveyance
of land in the adverse possession of another claiming title, it,
as incident thereto and by necessary intendment, gave to the
purchaser a right to use all lawful means to obtain possession.
There are various lawful means of doing this, and by suit is
one of them, which, in such case, is by far the most common.
It would be going a great length to hold that he must not, at
the time he makes the purchase, intend to use this means;
that if he have such intention,the purchase will be void; that
the intention to sue must be formed at some time subsequent
to the conveyance. It is deemed a sufficient reply to this to
say, that no such condition is found in the law which allows
the conveyance to be made. -Such condition would have rendered the statute almost a dead letter, and given rise to a contest about the intention of the purchaser in almost every case.
The Legislature must have well known that in most cases
where land was in the possession of another claiming title, the
occupant would contest his right by law; and, as a general
thing, that the purchaser would be obliged to establish his
claim in that way. It is therefore reasonable to presume, that
if the Legislature intended to impose such restriction on the
conveyance, it would have been expressed in plain language.
But it may be said, in reply, that it was not the intention
of the Legislature to license champerty.
Champerty is a species of maintenance; and if it be understood to embrace a conveyance of land held adversely by another claiming title, then the answer is, that to that extent it
has been rendered lawful in Michigan; but if it be understood
in its original and primitive sense, as being "a bargain with a
plaintiff or defendant to divide the land or other matter sued
for between themf they prevail at law, the champertor to
carry on the party's suit at his own expense, " it will be'admitted that it was not the intention of the Legislature to

liaense it,
This presents the question, do the facts which the plaintiff
in error offered to prove, amount to such a bargain? Was it agreed that Cooper should divide the land, in case
the suit prevailed? and if so, with whom? This is the first
essential ingredient in ehampe'rty.
That he was not to divide it with Wiljliams, the grantor, is
certain, nor with Bacon, who was the equitable owner and real
vendor, because the conveyance transferred the whole interest

DECEMJ3ER TERM, 1857.
Robtrts v.

479

ooper.

in the land, both legal and equitable, to Cooper, in trust for
the corporation called the National Mining Company. There
was no agreement o'r pyomise that, in case the suit prevailed,
or in any other event, either Cooper or the corporation should
convey or give back to Bacon anypart of the land.
Suppose Cooper, by direction of the National Mining Company, had, instead of bringing suit, immediately after he -conveyance to him, sold and transferred the land to a stranger,
would any promise to or agreement with Bacon have been
violated? and if so, what promise?
Was there any agreement that, if the land was recovered,
there should be a division of it between Cooper and the corporation for which he held it in trust? There was no proof
of the kind offered. He held the naked legal title, an4 the
corporation held the whole beneficiary interest in the land.
In case of recovery, the whole beneficiary interest would belong
to the corporation, and it could at any time compel him to
convey the legal title to the company. I a word, he sues
just as every other trustee sues, for the sole and exclusive benefit of the party owning the equitable estate.
gain
a total absence of a barThere
then, inorthe
thatisCooper,
anyproof
one offered,
else, should
divide the land sued
for carthe
same
as
a
consideration
any
part
of
for, or receive
rying on the litigation, and that essential ingredient of chainperty is therefore wantiig.
Another essential ingredient to make a case of champerty
.is, that Cooper should have agreed to bring and carry on the
suit, and that, too, at his own expense. (4 Black. Com., 135.)
He did not agree to do either of these things. The proof
offered was, that he purchased the land in trust for the Kational. Mining Company, and took the conveyance with the
intention of prosecuting the title for the 6enefilt of that corporatien, and not for his own benefit. Was that intention obligatqry upon him? Was he not at liberty to carry it out or not,
athis.pleasure? Did the proof offered show that he bargained
to prosecute the suit at his own expense? Not at all.
Every trustee bas a right, and it is oftentimes his duty, to
sue in behalf of his beneficiary. In such case, unless there is
roof to the contrary, the presumption is, the expense is borne
by the beneficiary; and. in this case the presumption as well
as-the fact is, that the expense is paid by the corporation.
Does the fact that Cooper owned a part of the stock in the
corporation make the case on that account, so far as this question is concerned, any way different from what it would be if
he held the title in trust for the corporation, and owned none
of its stock?
-

480

SUPREME COURT.
Robert& v. Cooper.

The individual members or stockholders of a corporation
are entirely distinct from the artificial body endowed with corporate powers. They may contract with each other, sue or be
sued, as individuals; and for these purposes the members and
the corporation are regarded by law as strangers to each other.
In a word, they are wholly distinct beings. The one is a
natural person, the other an artificial invisible being, which
(with its faculties and capacities) is created by law. (Dodge
v. Woolsey, 18 How., 344, note; Curran v. State of Arkansas,
15 How., 308; Waring v. Catawba Company, 2 Bay., 109;
Pierce v. Partridge, 3 Met. Mass., 144; Hill v. Manchester
Water Works, 5 Adol. and Ell., 866; Dunstone v. Imperial
Gas Company, 3 Bac. and Adol., 125; Geer v. School District, 6 Vermont, 187, 18 Vermont, 405; Marine Bank of Baltimore v. Beays, 4 H. and Johns., 888; Angell and Ames on
Corp., secs. 193, 390; 5 Ohio, 205.)
It follows, as a necessary consequence from these principles,
that the fact that both Cooper and Bacon held stock in the
National Mining Company, for whose benefit the conveyance
of the land was made to Cooper, had no more influence, either
in law or equity, upon the operation and legal effect of the
grant, than if that stock had been held by a total stranger to
the sale of the land.
If a party who carries on a suit has any interest, legal or
equitable, or possibility of interest in the land which is the
subject of the suit, there is no ground for the charge of maintenance. In other words, where there is a privity of estate,
direct or indirect, present or remote, maintenance is justifiable.
(Wickham v. Conklin, 8 John., 227; Wallis v. Pactland, 3
Ves., 503; 2 Ralls. Abr., 115; Bacon's -Abr., title Maintenance,
letter B.)
It is not deemed necessary to make futher comment on the
subject of champerty.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court,
Cooper, the plaintiff below, brought- this action of ejeatment
to recover a part of section No. 16, in township 50 north, range
39 west,,lying within the mineral district south of Lake Superior, in the State of Michigan. He claimed under the State of
Michigan, and the defendant for the Minnesota Mining Company, under a right of pre-emption from the United States.
The case was tried in the Circuit Court, and a verdict and
judgment rendered for the defendants. On a writ of error to
this court, the judgment of the court below was reversed, and
the record remitted for further proceedings, in pursuance of
the judgunent of this court. The report of the case in 18 How,

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

481

Robert8 v. Cooper.

ard, 173, exhibits a full statement of the facts, and of-the questions of law arising thereon, as decided by the court, which it
is unnecessary to recapitulate. On the last trial, the CircuitCourt was requested to give ifistructions to the jury contrary
to the principles established by this court on the first trial, and
nearly all the exceptions now urged against the charge are
founded on such refusal. But we cannot be compelled on a
second writ of error in the same case to review our own decision on the first. It hasobeen skttled by the decisions of this
court, that after a Case has been brought here and"decided, and
a mandate issued to the court below, if-a second writ of error
is sued out, it brings up for revision nothing but the proceedings subsequent to the mandate. N one of the questions which
were before the court on the first writ of error can be reheard
or examined upon the second. To allow a second writ of error
or appeal to a court of last resort on the same questions which
were open to dispute on the first, would lead to endless litigation. In chancery, a bill of review is sometimes allowed on
petition to the court; but there would be no end to a suit if'
every obstinate litigant could, by repeated appeals, compel a
court to listen to criticisms on their opinions, or speculate of
chances from changes in its members. (See Sizer v. Many,
16 How., 173; Corning v. Troy Iron Company, 15 How., 466,
Hiimely v. Rose, 5 Cranch, 515; Canter v. The Ocean Insurance Company, 1 Pet., 511; The Santa Maria, 10 Wheaton,
431; Martin v. Hunter, 1 Wheaton; and Sibbald et al. v. United States, 12 Pet., 488.)
We can now notice, therefore, only such errors as are 'alleged to have occurred in the decisions of-questi6ns which
were peculiar to the second trial.
I. The first of these is an exception to the refusal of the
court to permit the deposition of John Wilson to be read to
the jury. This exception, though not waived, has not been
much pressed, and cannot be supported. The deposition refers -to no facts relevant to the issue. It tended to show. that
some of the officers of the land office and the Attorney General
had expressed opinions on the questions of law arising in this
case, different.from- those expressed in the opinion of this court.
The practice of the land office and the opinions of the Attorney General may form very persuasive arguments to the court,
but cannot be read as evidence-to the jury of what the law is,
or ought to be. It is the province of the court to instruct the
jury as to the principles of law affecting the case, and counsel cannot appeal to a jury to decide legal questions by reading cases to them, or giving in evidence the opinions of'public
officers.
VOL. XX.
31

482

SUPREME COURT.
Roberts v. Cooper.

I. The only other exception to be noticed is founded on an
offer of testimony overruled by the court, and an instruction
refused, involving the same question. The evidence offered
and overruled is as follows:
"The defendant then produced, and offered to prove, a deed
of release from Alfred Williams and wife to the Minnesota
Mining Company, dated June 20th, 1856, covering the lands
in controversy; and further offered to prove, in connection
therewith, that at the time when the said Cooper obtained the
deed of the premises in controversy from Alfred Williams, the
Minnesota Mining Company was in actual and open possession
of the same, claiming title under their patent from the United
States, and that the said Cooper knew of such claim and occupancy before and at the time of his purchase, and of said
conveyance; that he obtained said title from Alfred Williams,
he being the naked trustee of John Bacon, and that all the
negotiations for the said purchase, and the purchase itself,
were had between said Cooper and Bacon, the said Williams
acting under the directions and for the benefit of said Bacon,
'and having or claiming no personal interest in said lands; that
said purchase and conveyance were made for the following
purpose, namely: that said Cooper-should hold the same in trust
for a corporation known as the National Mining Company, all of
whose stock was held by said John Bacon; and by the conditions of said sale, the said Cooper was to receive, and did receive,
with said conveyance, six-tenths of the stock aforesaid, and the
said Bacon was to retain, and did retain, four-tenths of said stock.
That the said Cooper purchased said stock and took said conveyance with a full knowledge of the claims and occupancy of
the Minnesota Mining Company, and with the intention of
prosecuting the title purchased by him, by legal proceedings
in this court against the Minnesota Mining Company, for the
benefit of the National Mining Company; and that before said
conveyance was delivered to him by said Williams, the said
Cooper, in conjunction with the said Bacon, applied to counsel
in the city of Detroit to employ such counsel in the litigation
aforesaid, which was to be had with the Minnesota Mining
Company."
The deed to the Minnesota Mining Company was for portions of the land not demanded in this suit, and by itself was
not relevant. The purpose and object for which this testimony
was olered is not stated; but it could have no relevancy, unless to show the title to the plaintiff below to be void, because
purchased and obtained with full knowledge of an adverse pOssession, and support the following instruction, which was refused by the court:

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Robert* v. Cooper.

"The defendant further requested the 6ourt to charge the
jury, that if', when said Williams conveyed, to said Cooper the
premises in question, the said Minnesota Mining Company was
in actual and open possession of said lands, claiming title thereto
under their patent, the said conveyance was void in law against
the said company and all claiming under them; which instructions the court refused to give, and to this ruling the defendant excepted."
As the court had excluded the testimony offered to support
this point of defence, the defendant could not exp6ct that it
would be submitted to the jury without evidence. We have
therefore to inquire whether the testimony offered and overruled by the court ought to have been received'to establish the
defence of maintenance or champerty.
In this country, where lands are an article of commerce,
passing from one to ,inother with such rapidity, the ancient
doctrine of maintenance, which makes void a conveyance for
lands held adversely, is in many States entirely rejected. In
some it has been treated as obsolete by the courts;: in others
it has been abolished by statute; while with some it appears
to have found more favor.
The ancient policy, which prohibited the sale of pretended
titles, and held the conveyance to a third person of lands held
adversely at the time to be an act of maintenance, was founded
upon a state of society which does not exist in this country.
The repeated statutes which were passed in the reigns of Edw.
I and Edw. III against champerty and maintenance, arose from
the embarrassments which attended the administration of justice in those turbulent times, from the dangerous influence and
oppression 6f men n. power. (See 4 Kent Coim., 477.)
The earlier decisions of the courts of Michigan seem to have
adopted this antiquated doctrine as a part of the common law
in that State. But so far as concerns its application to sales
by one out of possession, the Legislature have annulled it. The
Revised Code of 1846 (page 262) eiacts that "no grant or conveyance of lands, or interest ther in, shall be void for the reason that at the time of the execudion thereof such lands shall
be in the actual possession of another claiming adversely."
From this enactment it.is plain that the possession of the
Minnesota Mining Company, under claim of title, and Cooper's
knowledge of it when he purchased, cannot affect the validity
of the deed of Williams to him. Although the testimony,
which is the subject of this exception, was evidently offered
with a view only to raise the -question as above stated, the
counsel for the plaintiff in error. have endeavored to maintain
in this court that the court below ei red in rejecting it, because

484

SUPREME COURT.
Roberta v. Cooper.

if received it would have shown the contract between Cooper
and Bacon, and the deed from Wilson, to be void for champerty.
This offence seems to have been originated by the statutes
passed in the time of.Edw. I and Edw. III. (See 15 Viner's
Abr., 149, tit. Maintenance.) It is defined (Hawkins's P., 84)
as the "uInlawfuI maintenance of a suit, in consideration of an
agreement to have a part of the thing in dispute, or some profit
out of it;" and by Chitty as "a bargain to divide the land (campum partire) or thing in dispute, on condition of his carrying
it on at his own expense." In some States these statutes are
held to be obsolete. But it seems that the case of Backus v.
Byron (4 Mich. Rep., 535) has declared that they still retain
their force in Michigan. That was an action by an attorney
against his client on a contract, by which the attorney agreed
to carry on a suit for a share of the land in case of success, and
in case of failure to have nothing.
But in this case there was no offer to prove that Cooper had
agreed to carry on the suit in consideration of receiving a share
of the land in case of success; on the contrary, the offer was
to show that he "purchased stock" in a mining corporation;
that the legal title to the land was conveyed to him in trust for

himself and the other stockholders; and as a consequence of
the legal title being vested in him, the suit was necessarily
brought in his name. It needs no argument to showthat such
a transaction has none of the characteristics of champerty, and
that the court below was right in rejecting testimony which
would not, if admitted, tend to show a valid defence, and was
therefore wholly irrelevant.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed,
with costs.
Mr. Justice DANIEL:
Whilst I concur entirely in the conclusion just declared by
the court, that the case now decided is in its features essentially
the same with that of Co( )er v. Roberts, formerly before us,
and reported in the 18th of [toward, p. 173,; I am unwilling to
place my own opinion upon the fact of the identity of the two
cases, irrespective of the reasons or principles on which the
former o those cases was determined. That case was elaborately discussed by counsel; was, as the opinion of the court
evinces, deliberately considered; the theory avd objects of the
system adopted by the Government for the distribution of
public lands carefully examined, correctly expounded, and
properly sustained by the decision. In the reasoning of the
court, the cherished objects aimed to be secured by that theory,
viz: the advancement of "religion, morality, and knowledge,"

•DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

485

'Roberts v. Cooper.

as indispensable for the existence of good government, and for
the happiness of mankind; the obligation for the maintenance
of schools and the means of education as necessary for the ends
proposed, as declared in the third article of the ordinance of
1787, are prominently and correctly set forth as guides in the
interpretation and application of the policy and system of the
Government in .disposing of the public domain, It seems
scarcely to admit of rational doubt, that it was in pursuance
of this policy, and as deemed best calculated for its successful
accomplishment, that in the surveys made or to be made of
the public lands, the sixteenth section of every township, being central, (and therefore more than any other section could
be,) connected with the several interests of the township, was
appropriated for the use of schools. Admitting these to be
;fhe policy and theory of the Governmeht, designed as it has
been declared to lay the foundation of social and political good,
it would seem to follow that nothing short of the highest aid
most overpowering public considerations, or an absolute inability or want of power, should be permitted to defeat or in any
degree to control them. Surely speculations for private emolument, and still less such as might be attempted through the
exercise of irregular or doubtful authority, should not be permitted to affect them.
The power vested in the President to reserve from sale such
portions of land as he should deem necessary for publc uscs,
may be classed as one of those paramount considerations, constituting a public or national necessity, reaching even to the
defence of the country by fortifications or arsenals. In the same
category may be placed the sanctimony of the rights of property and possession existing and vested in territories anterior
to their acquisition by the tnited States; rights guarantied by
treaty stipulations.

In the same light may be viewed the witl.-

holding temporarily from hale lands in which were minerals
and salit springs. All these restrictions or reservations are exceptions merely, and should be carried no farther than their
terms
expressly or necessarily require. They can with no propriety be regarded as forming in themselves a system; much
less as overturning a system designed to be as far as practicable general and uniform, and proclaimed from its origin to
'be founded in wisdom and in a solemn sense of public gof.d,
and as such to be foatered and sustained. Every new State
has come and will come into the Unio4 relying on the faith of
this pledge; and even upon the concession of a power in the
Government to violate that pledge, such a violation could be
referred to no principle of.justice, and should therefo e never
be imputed but upon proofs the most positive and unequivocal.

486

SUPREME COURT.
Inqraham et al. v. Dawson dt al.

The sixteenth section of each township could not, it is true, be
specifically designated and possessed anterior to a survey of
the public lands; but the right to that sedtion and its appropriation existed in contract or pledge by virtue of the ordinance
and the laws of the United States, and the right of possession
and enjoyment was matured by the execution of the surveys.
It cannot be supposed that this right, so important, was destroyed or impaired by an agreement for temporary occupancy,
made without reference to any survey oi division of the lands,
made, too, without legitimate authority; nor can such right be
affected by any ordinary allowance of pre-emption, because the
pledge of the Government is pre-existing, is express, and therefore paramount.
The State of Michigan was admitted into the Union under
the pledge given her by the general land system of the -United
States; her right to the sixteenth section of each township was
under that pledge fully recognised. It could not therefore,
consistently with good faith, be displaced by an arrangement
irregular in its origin, and temporary in its character, in its
tendencies and operation conflicting with a preceding, general,
and beneficial system of policy. INo effectual adversary rights
could grow out of such an arrangement. Upon the views
herein expressed, I am in favor of an affirmance of the judgment in this cause, not merely on the ground that this cause
is essentially the same with that already decided between these
parties, as reported in the 18th of Howard, p. 173, but also because the opinion of this-court upon the law and the facts of
the last-mentioned cause commands-my entire approbation.

ALFRED INGRAHAM AND GEORGE READ, ASSIGNEES IN TRUST OF
THE GRAND GULF RAILROAD AND BANKING COMPANY, APPELLANTS, V. HENRY S. DAWSON, ADMINISTRATOR OF MOSES
GROVES, DECEASED, JOSIAH STANSBROUGH, AND JOHN R. MARSHALL.
Where there were proceedings in a State court between a bank, one of its creditors,
and one of its debtors, and the bank having failed, assigned its assets to trustees, who intervened in the dispute between the other two parties, the judgment
of the State court against the inter~enors must be considered final, and a bill
fi'ed by them in the Circuit Court of the United States must be dismissed.
If there were irregularities in the proceedings of the State court, it was for that
court to correct them, had complaint been made at the proper time.

THI- was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana.

