DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
.Beers v. State of Arkansas.

52T

1Plateniucv. Sta e of Arkansas. Same v. Same.

7th. That in consequence of delay in receiving, many of the
hogs died, to the great loss of plaintiff.
8th. That defendant returned false weights of these fourteen
hundred, and cut off parts before weighing.
9th. The plaintiff also sets up athird contract for five hundred hogs, which were delivered, and avers the same delay and
consequent injury to plaintiff; aiad the same frauds in weighing, &c..
T1o this catalogue of grievances the defendant, in his answer,
pleads thirty-three distinct denials of the averments in the petition. A jury was called to try these thirty-three issues, and
found a verdict for plaintiff, and assessed his damages.
N1o exception was taken on the trial to the admission or rejection of evidence; no error is alleged in the charge of the
court; and a regular judgment was entered on the verdict.
The only bills of exception were to the iefusal of the court
to grant a continuance and change the venue; both of which
were matters of discretion in the court below, and not the subject of review here.
The cavils to the sufficiency of -the plaintiff's statement,
under the name of a'special demurrer, were overruled by the
court below, and justly, because the code permits a demurrer
only when the petition "by a fair and natural construction does
not show a substantial cause of action." As we have already
shown, it contains a dozen.
The judgment of the court below is affirmed, with costs.

JOSEPH D. BEERS, usE OF WILLIAM A. PLATENIUS, AS ADMNIsTRATOR OF JAMES HOLFORD, DECEASED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
v. THE STATE OF ARKAN AS. WILLIAM A. PLATENIUs; ADMINISTRATOR OF JAMES HOLFORD, DECEASED, PLAINTIFF IN:
ERROR, V. THE STATE OF ARKANSAS. WILLIAM A. PLATENI-

-us, ADMINISTRATOR

.OF JAMES HOLFORD, DECEASED, PLAINTIFF

IN ERROR, V. THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
Under the Constitution of the State of Arkansas, the Legislaturq passed a law allowing the State to be sued.
According to this law, a suit wa's brought upon some of the State bonds; and
whilst the suit was going on, the Legislaturepassed another law, requiring the
bonds to be filed in court, or the suit to be dismissed.
The suitor refusing to file his bonds, the suit was dismissed; and the case was
carried to the Supreme Court of the State, where the judgment" was affirmed.
The case, being brought to this court under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
The permission to bring the suit was not*a contract whose obligations were impaired
by the passage of the subsequent law.

SUPREME COURT.
Beern v. State of Arkansaa.

Plateniusv. State of Arkansa8. Same v. Same.

THESE three cases depended upon the same principle, and
are therefore classed together. The report in the first-named
case will apply to them all. It was a case which was brought up
from the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas, by a writ of
error, issued under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Pike for the plaintiff in error, and by
Mr. Heinpsteadfor the defendant.
Mr. Chief Justice TAiNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of covenant, brought in the Circuit Court
for Pulaski county, in the State of Arkansas, to recover the
interest due on sundry bonds issued by the State, and which
the State had failed to pay according to its contract.
The Constitution of the State provides, that "the General
Assembly shall direct by law in what courts and in what
manner suits may be commenced dgainst the State." And in
pursuance of this provision, a law was accordingly passed; and
it is admitted that the present suit was brought in the proper
court, and in the manner authorized by that law.
The suit was instituted in the Circuit Court on the 21st of
November, 1854. And after it Was brought, and while it was
pending in the Circuit Court, the Legislature passed an act,
which was approved on the 7th of December, 1854, which provided, "that in every case in which suits or any proceedings
had been instituted to enforce the collection of any bond or
bonds issued by the State, or the interest thereon, before any
judgment or decree should be rendered, the bonds should be
produced and filed in the office of the clerk, and not withdrawn
until final determination of the suit or proceedings, and full
payment of the bonds and all interest thereon; and might then
be withdrawn, cancelled, and filed with the State treasurer, by
order of the court, but not otherwise." And the act further
provided, that in every case in which any such suit or proceeding had been or might be instituted, the court should, at
the first term after the commencement of the suit or proceeding, whether at law or in equity, or whether by original or
cross bill, require the original bond or bonds to be produced
and filed; and if that were not done, and the bonds filed and
left to remain filed, the court should, on the same day, dismiss
the suit, proceeding, or cross bill.
Afterwards, on the 25th of June, 1855, the State appeared
to the suit, by its attorney, and, without pleading to or answering the declaration of the plaintiff, moved the court to require
lim to file immediately in open court the bonds on which the

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
.Beerv v. State of Arkana.

Platenumv. State of Arkana.

Same v. Same.

suit was brought, according to the act of Assembly above
mentioned; and if the same were not filed, that the suit be
dismissed.
Upon this motion, after argument by counsel, the court
passed an order directing the plaintiff to produce and file in
court, forthwith, the bonds mentioned and described in the declaration. But he refused to file them-, and thereupon the court
adjudged that the suit be dismissed, with costs. This judgment was afterwards affirmed in the Supreme Court
of the State, and this writ of error is brought. upon the lastmentioned judgment.
The error assigned here is, that the act of December 7,1854,
impaired the obligations of the contracts between the State
and the plaintiff in error, evidenced by and contained in each
of the said bonds, and the endorsement thereon, and was therefore null and void, under the Constitution of the United States.
The objection taken to the validity of the act of Assembly
cannot be maintained. It is an act to regulate the proceedings
and limit the jurisdiction of its own courts in suits where the
State is a party defendant, and'nothing more.
It is an established principle of jurisprudence in all civilized
nations that the sovereign cannot be sued in its own courts, or
in any other, without its consent and permission; but it may,
if it thinks proper, waive this privilege, and permit itself to be
made a defendant in a suit by individuals,-or by another State.
And as this permission is altogether voluntary on the part of
the sovereignty, it follows that it may prescribe the terms and
conditions on which it consents to be sued, and-the manner in
which the suit shall be conducted, and may withdraw its consent whenever-it may suppose that justice to the public requires it.
Arkansas, by its Constitution, so far waived the privilege of
sovereignty as to authorize suits to be instituted against it in
its own courts, and delegated to its General Assembly the
power of directing in what courts, and in.what manner, the suit
might be commenced. And if the law df 1854 had been passed
before the suit was instituted, we do not understand that -ny
objection, would have been 'madeto it. - The objection is, that
it was passed after this suit was instituted, and contained regulations with which the plaintiff could not conveniently comply. But the prior ]aw Was not a contract. It was an ordinary
act of legislation, prescribing the conditions upon which the
State consented to waive the lrivilege of sovereignty. It contained no stipulatfon that these regulations should not be modimied afterwards, if, upon experience, it was found that further
provisions were necessary to protect the -public interest; 'and
VOL. XX.

34

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of Washington et al. v. State of Arkansas et al.

Same v. Same.

no such contract can be implied from the law, nor can this
court inquire whether the law operated hardly or unjustly upon
the parties whose suits were then pending. That was a question for the consideration of the Legislature. They might have
repealed the prior law altogether, and put an end to the jurisdiction of their courts in suits against the State, if they had
thought proper to do so, or prescribe new conditions upon which
the suits might still be allowed to proceed. In exercising this
latter power, the State violated no contract with the. parties;
it merely regulated the proceedings in its own courts, and limited the jurisdiction it had before conferred in suits when the
State consented to be a party defendant.
Nor has the State court, in the judgment brought here for
review, decided anything but a question of jurisdiction. It
has given no decision in relation to the validity of the contract
on which the suit is brought, nor the obligations it created, or
the rights of parties under it. It has decided, merely, that it
has no right under the laws of the State to try these questions,
unless the bonds given by the State are filed. The plaintiff
refused to file them pursuant to the order of the court, and the
case was thereupon dismissed, for want of jurisdiction in the
court to proceed further in the suit. There is evidently nothing in the decision, nor in the act of Assembly under which it
was made, which in any degree impairs the obligation of the
contract, and nothing which will authorize this court to reverse
the judgment of the State court.
The writ of error must therefore be dismissed, for want of
jurisdiction in this court.
The two cases of William A. Platenius, administrator of
James Holford, against the State of Arkansas,'in covenant,
are the same in all respects with the one above decided, and
must also, for the same reasons, be disesissed for want of jurisdiction.

THE PRESIDENT AND DIRECTORS OF THE BANK oF WASHINGTON,
AND HENRY S. AND FREDERICK S. HOLFORD, ADMINISTRATORS
OF JAMES HOLFORD, DECEASED, P AINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THE
STATE OF ARKANSAS, AND HENRY L. BRIsCoE, SNDFORD-O.
FAULKNER, AND JAMES H. WALKER. SAME v. THE STATE OF
ARKANSAS AND THE BANK OF THESTATE OF ARKANSAS.
A bill in chancery, purporting -to be a crass bill, filed under the same law of Arkansas which was mentioned in the preceding case of Holford's Administrator
v. The State of Arkansas, comes under the decision in that case, and must be
dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this court.

