DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

461

Stinson v. Dousman.

a circumstance connected with other facts from which fraud
may be inferred. But if the secrecy supposed amounted to
absolute fraud, yet the court could not have so pronounced in
this case, as there'was evidence controverting the supposition
of secrecy, which the court could not properly take from the
consideration of the jury.
The fifth and sixth charges were, that the jury were to determine the facts as to the possession after the sale; and that,
if a sale is made by a party; and the vendor remains in possession, it is ordinarily a badge of fraud, and requires explanation; and under the sixth they left the case to the jury, to
determine whether the sale was in good faith and for an honest
purpose; which instructions were, as we think, correct, aid in
accordance with the general doctrine on the subject.
A decision on a motion for a.new trial, being addressed to
the discretion of the court, is no ground for a writ of error.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

JAMES STINSON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.

HERCULES L. DusmAN.

Where there was a covenant to sell laud upon condition that the purchase-money
should be paid in instalments, and other acts done by the covenantee, in failure
to perform which, rent was to be charged, and the covenantee failed to execute
his contract, the rent was justly chargeable.
The Territory of Minnesota having abolished the court of chancery, the excuses
of the defendant must be judged of as if it was a case in chancery, the statute
having so directed. But in this case, time would be held to be an essential
consideration inthe contract by a court of equity, and the excuses for non-performance are insufficient.
The equitable as well as legal considerations being involved in the case, and the
amount of property large, this court can take jurisdiction, although the amount
of rent is less than one thousand dollars.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Minnesota.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Cooper for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Cushing and Mr. Gillet for the defendant.
The principal question in the case was, whether or not time
was of the essence of this contract as to the payment of the
first instalment. -Uponthis point, the counsel for the plaintiff
in error admitted.that:-','While time is material, it was not so far of, the essf.nce of
such a contract as this, as to authorize Dousman to declare it,
void, especially when it wAs manifest that there was neither

462

SUPREME COURT.
,Stiron v. Dousman.

wihal laches, negligence, nor want of ability, on the part of
Stinson to perform the contract. In such a case, equity always
affords relief. (2 Story's Eq. Jur., secs. 775, 776, 776 note,
777, 1314, 1315, 1316, 1319; Taylor v. Longworth, 1 McLean,
402, 403; same, 14 Pet., 170; Brashear v. Gratz, 6 Wheat.,
528; Bank of Washington v. Hagner, 1 Pet., 464; 1 Fontblanque's Eq., 31 and 32, note; Newland on Contr., ch. 12,
p. 238.)
Upon the question of time, the counsel for the defendant in
error
. At said:
law, the time of performance is a material part of a contract; non-performance, at the very day, is always to be held
as a breach. There is no other rule applicable, except the one
named in the contract.
In equity, the same rule applies where, in the agreement, the
parties evidently contemplated that time would be material,
and influence their action or interests. In the present case,
the parties not only looked to the possibility of the non-performance according to the letter of the agreement, but they
made an express agreement providing for that contingency.
They did not leave the law to determine the consequences of
a default, but made a law' for themselves on that subject, by
an express provision in the body of their agreement. Instead
of providing that the performance might be made at a future
day, and a compensation in damages for the delay, the parties
provided that, in case of default in making payment, or insuring, or paying taxes, the plaintiff might waive the contract
of sale, and accept the defendant as his tenant, from the date
of the agreement to the time of the election by the plaintiff to
avoid the contract. There is no case for the law to act upon;
nothing has occurred unprovided for in the contract. The law
cannot step in and act upon a case, and declare what shall be
done by the parties, when they had, by their agreement, determined for themselves.
[The counsel then quoted the cases of Hipwell v. Knight,
and Secombe v. Steele, and continued:]
In the present case, it clearly appears affirmatively that the
parties regarded the time an essential element in their agreement, because they made a special provision to meet that very
contingency. They arranged that the plaintiff might elect to
annul the contract, if it was not literally fulfilled. No other
reason can be assigned for that provision. Without it, the
plaintiff could only have sued upon the agreement to recover
the purchase-money and interest by way of damages. Before
suit, the defendant might have avoided the strict rule of law,

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Sliton v.Douaman.

by tender, and resorting to equity to relieve from his default;
but after suit, that relief would not have been open to him.
In the present case, the parties stipulated for an additional
privilege in behalf of the plaintiff. They.made a provision
for a change in the cbntract, by which the original agreement
to sell was converted, by the action of the plaintiff, into a lease,
with a specified rent. The plaintiff availed himself of this provision on the occurrence ofthe default by the defendant, as he
had .the legal and equitable right to do.
Hence, if it be true, under the laws of Minnesota, (Laws
of March 3, 1853, p. 20, secs. 5, 6,) which we controvert, that
the defendant can meet a legal claim by setting up an equity,
there is nothing in this case .to authorize any such defence,
because there is no such equity in favor of the defendant which
he can set up.
' [Other points Were made upon both sides, but the above was
the principal one upon which the decision of the court turned.]
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was commenced in the District Court of the United
States for Ramsey county, Minnesota, by Dousman, to recover
of Stinson four hundred and eighty-one and sixteen one-hundredths dollars, as the rent of a parcel of-land in the city of St.
Paul, under a written contract, executed in February, 1854,
by those persons. In that contract, Dousman covenanted- to
sell and convey to -Stinson the same land for the sum of eight
thousand dollars, which was to be paid, with interest at the
rate of ten per cent. annually, in three instalments; the first
instalment of two thousand dollars, and interest, was to be paid
the 1st of September, 1854... The vendee was-required to keep
the buildings insured,, and engaged that the. policy in case of
loss should inure to the benefit of the vendoir; and also agreed
to pay all the taxes accruing from May, 1853. The contract
concltides with an express condition, ."that in case of failure
by the vendee to perform either of the covienants on his part,
the vendor was at liberty to declare -the contract void, and
thereupon to recover, by distress or otherwise, all the interest
which shall have accrued upon the contract U. to the day of
declaring the contract void, as reut for the use and occupation
of the premises, and to take immediate possession there6f; toregard the person or persons in possessiQn at the time as tenant
or tenants holding without permission, and to recover all damages sustained by unnecessary destruction of timnber or trees
growing on the premises, or by holding over without permission."
'
" .yendee p#id.thie entire purchseIt was ggreed,
that if the

464

SUPREME COURT.
Stin8on v. Douman.

money, or secured it to the satisfaction of the vendor, he should
have a deed at any time after the payment of the first instalment. Contempotaueously with the execution of the contract,
under the seals of the parties, the vendee gave his promissory
note for the first instalment. This instalment was not paid
according to the note or contract; no insurance was effected
on the property within the terms of the agreement before September, 1854; nor were the taxes on the lot paid before that
date.
On the 14th of September, 1854, the plaintiff notified the
defendant that the contract of sale was annulled, and he should
claim as rent the amount of interest that had accrued on the
price stipulated for the property, and demanded immediate
possession of the premises, under the conditions of the contract.
The object of this suit is to recover that sum as rent.
The stiftute law of Minnesota provides, "that all equities
existing at the commencement of any action in favor of a defendant therein, or discovered to exist after such commencement, and before a final decision, shall be interposed, if at all,
by way of defence to the action, by answer or supplemental
answer in the nature of a counter claim, and issue taken thereon, by a reply or supplemental reply thereto, and be determined as other issues in such actions;" and that, "when the
party prosecuted has equities, claims, or demands, which could
heretofore only be enfbrced by cross-action or cross-bill, the
same shall be interposed by way of answer in the nature of a
counter claim,' and the plaintiff may reply thereto and put the
same in issue; and if the same be admitted by the plaintiff, or
the issue thereon be determined in favor of the defendant, he
shall be entitled to such relief, equitable or otherwise, as the
nature of the case demands, by judgment or otherwise. The
court of chancery and the right to institute chancery suits are
abolished in the Territory. (Acts of Minnesota, 1853, ch. 9,
sec. 5, 6, 14.) The answer of the defendant is framed not
opl'to pfiesent a legal defence against the claim preferred in
the petition, but also to obtain a decree affirmative of the continuing validity of the contract of sale.
He alleges that the note executed for the first instalment of
the purchase-money was accepted and received by the plaintiff
for that instalment. That, to provide for the punctual payment
of the note, he sent to the agents of the plaintiff, who held, and
were authorized to.collect it, a draft on a merchant of responsibility for its full amount, under a reasonable expectation and
belief that the money would be paid. That this draftwas presented at the office of the drawee by the agents of the plaintiff,
at a time when he was absent, and that his clerk, through mis-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

465

Sinsn . .Dousman.

take or error, declined to pay it; that, as soon as he heard of
the dishonor of the bill, he made other arrangements for the
payment of the first instalment by a bill oii bankers in New
York, and that this bill was ofired to the plaintiff before the
date of his notice to the defendant. That he has tendered the
money and interest to the plaintiff, and his tender has been
refused, and he now deposits the money in court for his use.
He farther answers, that the buildings on the lot have been covered by a suitable policy of insurance, but the amount of the
loss, if any, was not payable to the plaintiff. That there was
a mistake in the contract relative to this stipulation, which
needed amendment, and that he deferred the transfer of the
policy till the correction was made. That he is now willing
to *assignthe policy to the plaintiff.
He answers, that since the notice of the plaintiff he has attempted to pay the taxes in arrear, but that he had been forestalled by him; that .he is ready to pay the amount of taxes
paid by the plaintiff into court. The defendant claims that
the plaintiff has sustained no injury from any delay on his
part, and that he is able and willing ta fulfil his contract.
The District and Supreme Oourt of Minnesota decided that
the answer was not sufficient, and judgment -wasentered for
the plaintiff. The admissions of the answer exhibit a case of
default on the pait of the defendant in respect to hisperformance of the covenants in the contract of sale. The technical
rule, that "accord and satisfaction is no bar to an action for
debt certain, covenanted to be paid," is, perhaps, inapplicable
in a system like that contained in the code of Minnesota; and
it is probably true, that a debt by covenant may be discharged
there by a simple contract or agreement. But the answer of
the defendant does not show that the promissory note given
for the first instalment of the purchase-money was designed to
be a substitute for the covenant, and was taken in discharge
of the debt created by it. Nor can we suppose that the plaintiff intended to release the condition which formed so important
a part of his security. The contract and the note bear date of
the same day, relate. to the same subject, and are consistent
with each other. The evidence must .be very explicit and unequivocal, to lead to the conclusion that the one was designed
to impair or alter the-effet of the other.
The excuses rendered by the defendant for his non-payment
of the taxes due upon the property, and his failure to insure
the buildings for the security of the plaintifl; are insufficient.
The record discloses a ease of inattention and neglect on the
part of the defendant, which authorized the plaintiff at law to
annul the contract.
VOL. XX.
S0

SUPREME COURT.
Stinson v. Dousman.

The question arises, whether his answer affords any ground
for equitable interposition in his favor. In respect to contracts
for the sale of land, a court of equity, in general, does not exact
from the parties a punctual performance of their engagements,
to entitle them to its aid in obtaining a specific performance.
If the contract is silent in respect to the condition of time, or
fails to indicate a distinct purpose of the parties to make it an
essential consideration, and where no circumstance exists to
manifest its importance, it is the habit of the court to relax
the stringency of the rules of legal interpretation on that subject, and to decree performance, and direct compensation, even
in cases where there has been inattention or neglect. (Secombe v. Steele, 20 How., sup.; Roberts v. Berry, 3 De G.,
M., and Gord.) But if the parties have declared in their contract that time is a material consideration, and have agreed
that their rights shall depend upon a scrupulous fidelity to
their engagements, it does not belong to that court to make
another law for the parties. Where it plainly appears that
the sale is conditional, and its completion is dependent upon
the fulfilment of any of the terms with punctuality by either
party, a court of equity, in general, will not interpose to relieve
the party in default, on the principle that time is not of the
essence of the contract.
In the case before us, the contract recites, that the vendor,
in consideration of one dollar, part of the purchase-money
thereafter mentioned, and then actually paid, and upon the
express condition that the defendant do well and faithfully
perform the covenants and agreements thereafter mentioned,
a~reed to execute and deliver a deed of conveyance in fee simple, &c.
To the terms of sale there is the condition, "Provided, always, (and these presents are upon this express condition,)
that in case of failure in the performance of either of the
covenants or agreements on the part of the vendee to be performed, the vendor shall have the right to declare this contract
void." The contract concludes with a minute description of
the relations and consequences that were to ensue from the
exercise, by the vendor, of the right he had thus reserved.
The contingency thus foreseen and provided for occurred.
The defendant failed to perform either term of his contract,
and his answer contains no valid excuse for his neglect.
The defendant in error objected, that the matter in dispute
was not of the value of one thousand dollars, and therefore
this court had no jurisdiction of the cause. The objection
might be well founded, if this was to be regarded merely as an
action at common law.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

467

.Roberts v. Cooper.

But the equitable as well as the legal considerations involved
in the cause, are to be 6onsidered. The effect of the judgment
is to adjust the legal and equitable claims of the parties to the
subject of the suit.
The subject of the suit is not merely the amount of rent
claimed, but the title of the respective parties to the land under the contract. The contract shows that the matter in dispute was valued by the parties at eight thousand dollars.
(Bennett v. Butterworth, 8 How., 124.) We think this court
has jurisdiction. Judgment affirmed.

ENOCH 0. ROBERTS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JAMES M. COOPER.
This court again decides, that after a case has been brought here and decided, and
- a mandate issued to the court below, if a second writ of error is sued out, it
brings up for revision nothing but the proceedings subsequent to the mandate.
The deposition of an officer of the General Land Office, as to the opinions an
practice prevailing in that office, cannot be read to the jury as proof of the law,
although it might have influence with the court in explaining the law to the
jury. !
The ancient English doctrines respecting maintenance or champerty have not found
favor in the United States; and in Michigan (where the land lies which is involved in the present controversy) its application to sales, by one out of possession, has been annulled.
Although, in that State, an agreement to carry on a suit upon condition of receiving a share of the 'proceeds might be void, yet the rule would not apply to a
transfer of the legal estate to one, in trust for himself and the other stockholders
in a corporation. .

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Michigan.
It was the same case which was before this court at December term, 1855, and is reported in 18 Howard, 173.
A venire de novo having been ordered, the case came up
again for trial, on the circuit, in June, 1856. The result was
a verdict and judgment in favor of Cooper, the lessor of the
plaintiff in the original action.
The bill of exceptions stated that an agreed state of facts,
dated Washington city, April 17th, 1854, signed by S. F. Vinton for plaintiff, and Truman Smith for defendant, with all
the papers therein referred to and thereto annexed, was read
in evidence to the jury, a true copy of which statement, with
the papers thereto annexed, is hereto appended.
And there-yvas also put in evidence, and read 'to the jury, a
staternent and stipulation, dated June 24th, 1856, and signed
by S. F. Vinton for the plaintiff, and T. Romeyn for the defendant, together with the papefrs therein referred to and at-

