SUPREME COURT.
McCormick v. Talcoti et al.

couraged; so that where the owner is present, no lien is acquired
by the material man; nor is any, where the vessel is supplied
or repaired in the home port. The lien attaches to foreign
ships and vessels only in favor of the carpenter who repairs in
a case of necessity and in the absence of the owner. It would
be a strange doctrine to hold the ship bound in a case where
the owner made the contract in writing, charging himself to
pay by instalments for building the vessel at a time when she
was neither registered nor licensed as a sea-going ship. So
far from the contract being purely maritime, and touching
rights and duties appertaining to navigation, (on the ocean or
elsewhere,) it was a contract made on land, to be performed
on land. .The wages of the shipwrights had no reference to a
voyage to be performed; they had no interest or concern whatever in the vessel after she was delivered to the party for whom
she was built; they were bound to rely on their contract. It
was thus held by the first Judge Hopkinson, in 1781, who then
declared, as respects ship builders, that "the practice of former
times doth not justify the admiralty's taking cognizance of
their suits." (Chilton v. The Brig Hannah, Bee's Admiralty
R., app., 419.) And we feel warranted in saying that at no
time since this has been an independent nation, has such a
practice been allowed. (Turnbull v. Enterprise, Bee's Adm.
R., 345.)
It is proper, however, to notice the fact that District Courts
have recognised the existence of admiralty jurisdiction in rem
against a vessel to enforce a carpenter's bill for work and materials furnished in constructing it, in cases where a lien had
been created by the local law of the State where the vessel
was built; such as Read v. The Hull of a New Brig, 1 Story's
1.,
244; and Davis & Lehman v. A New Brig, Gilpin's R.,
473; ib., 536; Ludington &King v. The Nucleus, 2 Law Jour.,
563. Thus far, however, in our judicial history, no case of
the kind has been sanctioned by this court. For the reasons above stated, it is ordered that the decree below be reversed, and the libel dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
CYRUS H. MCCORMICK, APPELLANT, V. WAITE TALCOTT, RALPH

EMMERSON, JESSE BLINN, AND SYLVESTER TALCOTT, SURVIVORS
OF JOHN H. MANNY.
The reaping machines made by Manny do not infringe McCormick's patent, either
as to the divider, the manner in which the reel is sbpported, or the combination
of the reel with a seat for the raker.
McCormick not being the original inventor of the machine called a divider, but
the patentee of only an improvement for a combination of mechanical devices,
could not hold as an infringer one who used only a part of the combination.

DEOEMBER TERM, 1857.

403

MAcformick v. Talcott etal.
The manner of supporting the reel in Manny's machine is not like that in McCormick's, and was )usedbefore McCormick's first patent.
With respect to the raker's seat, McCormick's patent was for a combination of the
reel with a seat arranged and located according to his description. But Manny's arrangement differs from McCormick's in principle as well as in form and
combination, and is therefore n6 infringement of McCormick's patent.

Tnis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the -United
States for the northern district of Illinois, sitting as a court of
equity.
The bill which was filed by McCormick alleged that the
defendants in error had infringed his patent for a reaping machie; called upon them for an account, and prayed for an injunction. The defendants denied the infringement, and claimed
a ricrht to construct their machines under letters patent granted
to ohn H. Manny. The Circuit Court dismissed the bill,
and McCormick appealed to this court.
McCormick's patents had been twice before this court, as
will be seen by referring to 16 Howard, 480, and 19 Howard,
96. The same claims, viz: the fourth and fifth of the patent
of 1845, were involved in the case in 19 Howard, and the remaining claim, viz: that relating to the seat of the raker, under the patent of 1847, was before the eourt in 16 Howard,
only that it now comes up under a reissued patent in 1853.
The reporter despairs of giving any intelligible account of
the argument in this case. The record was upwards of one
thousand pages of printed matter, of which seven hundred and
fifty pages were the depositions of witnesses; and the court
room was filled with models and drawings, introduced upon
either side, to which constant reference was made by the
counsel.
The case was argued by Mr. _overdy Johnson and 2rr. Dickerson for the plaintiff in error, and Hr. Stantonand Mr. Harding
for the defendants.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill charges the defendants with infringing two several
patents granted to complainant, for improvements in the ma.cineknown as McCormick's Reaper. One of these patents
bears date the 31st of January, 1845; the other on the 24th of
May, 1853, being the.reissue of a previous one, dated 28d of
October, 1847. The-defendants are charged with infringing
the fourth and fifth claims of the patent of 1845, and the second
claim of the reissued patent of 1853.
I. The first infringement charged is that of the divider, or
that part of the reaping machine which is defined "as an ar-

404

SUPREME COURT.

-

McCormick v. Talcott et a1.

rangement, or apparatus, for separating the grain to be cut
from that which is 'tobe left standing."
The claim is as follows: "4th. I claim the combination of
the bow L and the dividing-iron M, for separating the wheat
in the way described."
The description referred to is as follows:
"The divider K is an extension of the frame on the left side
of the platform, say three feet before the blade, for the purpose
and so constructed as to effect a separation of the wheat
to be. cut from that to be left standing, and t'iat whether
tangled or not. E is a piece of scantling, say three feet
long and three inches square, made fast to a projection of
the platform by two screw-bolts. To the point of this piece,
at K, is made fast by a screw or bolt a bow L of tough wood,
the other end of which is made fast in the hinder part of the
platform. at R, and it is so bent as to be about two and a half
feet high at the (left) reel-post, and about nine inches out from
it, with a regular curve. The dividing-iron M is an iron rod of
a peculiar shape, made fast to the point of the same piece E,
and by the same screw-bolt that holds the bqw L. From this
bolt this iron rises towards the reel S, at an 'angle of say 300,
until it reaches it, then it is bent so as to pass under the reel
as far back as the blade, and to fit the curve of it (the reel.)
From the-bolt in the point aforesaid, the other end of this iron
extends, say nine inches, along the inside of the piece E, where
it is held by another screw-bolt M, and where it has a groove
(or slot) in it to admit the other ends being raised or lowered
(turning on the point screw K as a pivot) to suit the height of
the reel. By means of the bow to bear off the standing wheat,
and the iron to throw the wheat to be cut within the powers
of the reel, the required separation is made complete."
The answer denies that the arrangement of the divider used
by defendants for separating the grain to be. cut from that
to be left standing is the same in construction or mode of
operation as that claimed by complainant, or a colorable evasion
of said claim, and avers that it is a different and distinct arrangement, invented by J. H-. Manny, after several years' experiments.
It would be a difficult task to make intelligible to the uninitiated the construction of a very complex machine, without the
aid of models or diagrams. But, for the purposes of the case,
the divider, although a component part of the great complex
machine called the reaper, may be considered by itself as a
machine, or combination of devices; attached to the reaper to
perform certain functions necessary to complete the whole operation. In order to ascertain whether the divider used by defend-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

405

HcCormkk v. Talcolt et al.

ants infringes that of the complainant, we must first inquire

whether McCormick was the first to invent the machine called
a divider,, performing the functions required, or has merely
improved-a known machine by some peculiar combination of
mechanical devices which perform the same functions in a better manner.
If he be the original inventor of the device or machine called"
the divider, he will have a right to treat as infringers all who
make dividers operating on the same principle, and performing
the same functions by analogous means or equivalent combinations, even though the infringing machine may be an improvement of the original, and patentable as such. But if the invention claimed be itself but an imprbvement on a known machine
by a mere change of form or combination of parts, the patentee
cannot treat another as an infringer who has improved the
original machine by use of a different form or combination
performing the same functions. The inventor of the first improvement cannot invoke the doctrine of equivalents to suppress all other improvements which are not mere colorable
invasions of the first.
That portion of a reaping machine called the divider or separator may be described as a pointed, wedge-formed instrument, which is attached by its. butt at that extremity of the
cutting apparatus which runs in the grain, in such manner
that its point projects in advance of the cutting apparatus, and
enters the standing grain. Its functions, whiere the grain stands
erect, are to divide it into two portions, one of which is borne
inwards' by the inner side of the wedge-formed implement
within the xanie of the cutting apparatus and of the reel, in.
case the machine is fitted with a reel; the other portion of the
grain is borne outwards by the outer side of the divider, so as
to be passed by that portion of the machine which lies behind
the cutting apparatus. -hen grain is inclined outwards, the
function of the divider is n6t only merely to divide the grain
into pottions, but also to raise up .the inclined stalks of the
grain, below which,the divider passes. - When the grain inclines inwards, the function of the divider is not only to divide
the mass, but also to raise up the inclined stalks of grain beneath which the divider passes, and to bear them outwads
without the range of the reel, if the machine has a reel, and of
the cutting apparatus.. When grain, in addition to being inclied, is also entanfgled, the divider not only separates and
raises the stalks, but also tends to disentangle them. The lower
face of a divider also performs the function of a shoe or runner,
to prevent the cutting apparatus from digging into the earth,
when, by any accidental movement of the machine, it would

406

SUPREME COURT.
Mco'rmick v.Talcotu et al.

otherwise do so. The divider also performs the function of
limiting or regulating the width of the swath, by raising up
and turning inwards those stalks of grain which, from their
inclination outwards, would otherwise escape the action of the
cutter; and by raising up and turning outwards those stalks
of grain which, from their inclination inwards, would otherwise be within the range of the cutter. All dividers' perform
these functions in a greater or less degree. The English patent
of Dobbs, in 1814, had dividers of wood or metal. The outer
diverging-rod rose as it extended back, and diverged laterally
from the point, to raise the stalks of grain inclining inwards,
and to turn them off from the other parts of the machine. The
patent of Charles Phillips of 1841 had a divider, shaped like a
wedge, performing the same function, thrining the grain aside
on both sides of the machine, and raising it up. Ambler's
machine had a triangular divider performing the same functions, as also the machines of Hussey, Schnebly, and that of
McCormick, patented in 1834 which is now public property.
The. present claim is for the combination of this bow with a
dividing iron of a certain form, and for nothing more. This
dividing iron is but a new form or substitute for that side of
the triangle or wedge which in other machines perf6rmed the
function of separating thQ inside grain, and raising it to the
cutters.
It is described in.the patent as having these peculiarities to
distinguish it from those that preceded it.
1. ft rises at an angle of about thirty degrees till it reaches
the reel.
2. It is curved under the reel.
3. It is made adjustable by means of a slot, s6 as to suit the
different heights of the reel.
Its function is to raise and support the grain along the inner
edge of the divider, at the maximum elevation consistent with
the employment of the reel. As a form or combination of devices it is new, and no doubt an improvement, and therefore
the proper subject of a patent. But as a claim for a combination of mechanical devices or parts, it is not infringed by one
who uses a part of the combination. Nor can it challenge other
improvements of the same machine, different in form or combination, as infringements, because they perform the same
functions as well or better by calling them equivalents. The
machine constructed under defendants' patent has a wooden
projection, somewhat in the form of a wedge, extended beyond
the cutting-sickles some three feet, and which, from the p6int
in front, rises as it approaches the cutting apparatus, with a
small curve (not approaching to an angle of thirty degrees) so

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

407

McCormick v. Talcoti e al.

as to raise the leaning grain. It has no dividing-iron, nor substitute or equivalent possessing the peculiar qualities of that
instrument.- It more resembles the wedges in use before McCormick's patent of 1845. As an improvement on former machines, it has some peculiarities of form and construction, but
it does not adopt the combination of comllainant's patent. " It
is a distinct improvement, probably inferior to McCormick's,
but certainly no infringement of his claim.
IL- The fifth claim-of complainant's patent of 1845, which
the bill charges the defendants with infringing, is as follows:
"5. I claim setting the lower end of the reel-post R behind
the blade, curving it at R2, and leaning it forward at top, thereby
favoring the cutting, and enabling me to brace it at top by
the front brace S, as described, which I claim in combination
with the post."
In the reaping machine of McCormick's original patent of
1834, he had placed the reel-post in front of the cutters. -This
position of the post interfered with the action of the reel in
drawing the grain to th cutters, especially in gathering tangled
-grain. In order to remedy this defect of his own machine, lie
set the post farther. back, and braced it as described.
Defendant does not support his reel by posts, as was done by
McCormick. He uses the horizontal reel-bearer connected by
a frame with the hinder part of the machine. This device for
supporting the reel was invented and used many years before
McCormick's first patent of 1834. It had no reel-post situated
as in his patent, and encountered none of the evils remedied
by the change in its position. This attempt to treat the earlier and better device used by defendant as an infringement of
a later device to obviate a difficulty unknown to the first, is an
application of the doctrine of equivalents which needs no far- ther

comment.

III. The bill charges defendants with infringing the second
claim of the reissued patent of 1853. This claim is as follows:
"2. And I also claim the combination of the reel for gat-hering the grain to the cutting apparatus, and depositing it on the
platform, with the seat or position for the raker arranged and
located as described, or the equivalent thereof, to enable the raker
.to rake the grain from the platform, and deliver and lay it on
the ground at the side of the machine as described."
If this claim be construed to include all machines which have
a reel and a raker's seat, it is void, for want of novelty. Hite,
Woodward, Randall, and Schnebly, had invented and publicly
used reaping machines which had reels, and a place for the
raker on the machine. But the true construction of this claim,
and the only one which will support Vus validity, is to treat it

SUPREME COURT.
McCormiac v. Takott et a .

as a claim for a combination of the reel with a seat "arraned
and located as described." And such was the construction
given to it by the defendant himself, when the Commissioner
bad refused to grant him a patent claiming the mere combination of a reel and a raker's seat, "because such a combination
was not patentable, the functions of each device having no
necessary connection with the other."
This arrangement for the location of a rak-er's seat was made
"by placing the gearing and crank forward of the drivingwheel, and thus carrying the driving-wheel further back than
heretofore, and sufficiently so to balance the rear part of the
-frame and the raker thereon."
By this device he obtained a place for the raker over the
finger-bar, just back of the driving-wheel, and at the end of
the reel, where he could have free access to the grain, and rake
it off the machine at right angles to the swath. It was by
limiting his claim to this arrangement, location, and combination, that the complainant obtained his patent; and without this construction of it, the claim is neither patentable nor
original.
The arrangement, combination, and location of the raker's
seat, by defendants, has been patented to Manny, as an independent contrivance, and distinct invention. The place for the
raker is obtained by a change in the shape of the platform, different from any' before employed. It differs from the complainant's device in principle as well as in form and combination. The raker's seat is on a different part of the machine,
where he may stand without destroying the balance of the machine, or tiltin-g it up. It requires no modification of the reel.
It requires no such combination or modification of parts of the
machine in order to find a place for the raker, which is an
essential part of complainant's claim.
It is subsiantially different, both in form and in combination,
fiom that claimed by the complainant, and is consequently no
infringement of his patent.
Concurring, as we do, in the opinion and decision of the court
below on these several points, the decree is affirmed with costs.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissenting:
In the opinion of this court just delivered I do not concur.
Protracted as the discussion by counsel in the case has been, the
real grounds for controversy between the parties are obvious, and
comprised within quite a limited compass. The unusual display of mechanical ingenuity, and the comment upon its progress exhibited in the conduct of this cause, whilst they evince
great zeal and industry, and may afford entertainment to the

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

409

HcCnmdck v. Talcott et al.

curious on such subjects, are in a great degree irrelevant to
and beside any legitimate inquiry which an adjustment of the
claims of the parties either imposes or warrants. In the decree of the court below, as well as in the arguments in this
court, it has been conceded, that the patent of the appellant is
strictly legal. This concession necessarily excludes, and in legal
acceptation concludes, all inquiry as to the right of the appellant
to the full benefit of his invention, either as an original or a
combination, and renders unnecessary, and irregular, and improper, any and every comparison between.that invention and
previous claims to discovery and improvement, having in view
the same results, and the same or merely equivalent modes of
producing them. This convession, therefore, narrows down
and confines the proper investigation before this court, as it
should have restricted thatbefore the Circuit Court, to the single
question, whether the machine complained of as an infringement, either in thecry, in construction, or in operation, was the
same with the improvement invented by the appellant, for the
benefit or the reard for which the law had given its guarantee? .This was the proper inquiry before the court below, is
the only regular inquiry here. All others connected with previous inventions were and must be irregular, and are excluded
and forbidden by the concession that the patent of the appellant
is legal and valid. To guide them in this, the only legitimate inquiry, this court has had before them a species of evidence of
all others best calculated to conduct them to the truth-evidence superior to, and unaffected by,the-interests or prejudices
of partisans, or by the opinions (the reveries, they may often
be called) of a class of men styled experts; men as often skilful and effective in producing obscurity and error, as in the
elucidation of truth. -To witnesses can testify so clearly and
so impartially as do the subjects (though muite) concerning
which a controversy about identity or dissimilarity is pending..
'These witnesses have been produced, and their testimony
eagerly and keenly scrutinized; and that testimony establishes,
in my judgment, with a force and certainty which no ingenuity
can either withstand or evade, that the machine put in operation'by the appellees is a palpable infringement of the rights
of the appellant; that in theory or principle, in structure, in
the modes of operation, and in the results proposed, it is essentially, and, with some insignificant and merely apparent diversity, formally identical, at least in one important particular, with
the invention-ecured by the Government to the appellant,
and admitted by the appellees,, and by the court, to have been
rightfuily and legally guarantied to him.
That portion of the machines put in operation by each of

410

SUPREME -COURT.
McCormick v. Tak1oCet al.

the parties to this controversy, and which constitutes the most
material subject of contention in this cause, consists of what
in the description and specification of the respective patents is
c !led a divider. The function and the value of this divider
are experienced in separating the stalks of wheat designed to
be immediately severed by the cutters, from those which do
not come within their immediate and regular operation, but
which it is desired should be left to the future or succeeding
action of the machine. It frequently happens, in fields of
luxuriant growth, that from high winds, heavy rains, and even
from its own weight, wheat is pressed down, and becomes in
rustic phrase lodged. In this condition, the stalks and heads
of the wheat, on both sides of a line described by the track of
a machine, will become entangled, and inclined in various and
opposite directions, accordingly as the momentum which displaces the natural position of the growing crops has been applied.
In such a condition of the wheat, any process by which a portion
of the crop should be torn apart from portions with which it
was intertwined, would prove highly detrimental, inasmuch
as it would necessarily increase the irregularity in the position
of the wheat not cut, and standing outside of the regular track
of the machine; and, by violently and rapidly rening apart
the tangled straw, would shatter and waste the grain in each
division, creating thereby a serious diminution in the yield or
product. In order to prevent these mischiefs by disentangling
the wheat, by separating that designed to be immediately
severed from that reserved for the succeeding action of the
machine, and by raising up the former, and bringing it within
the scope and operation of the reel and the cutters, was devised
an addition or appendage to the reaper, called the divider. The
importance of this appendage, both to the success of the reaper
and on account of its real utility in practice, cannot be with reason called in question. Its essential importance is sufficiently
evinced by the zeal and industry displayed, and the extraordinary expense which must have been incurred in this controversy.
The divider of McCormick may be thus substantially described:
A pointed instrument or structure, called by the patentee a
bow, form6d of strong hard wood, confined in front, and projeeting so far in advance of the cutters as to enter the wheat
in time to effect its preparation for the approach of the cutters.
This bow is extended in a curvilinear form on the outer side of
the machine, next the grain to be separated from the cutters,
and is gradually elevated from the point in front to a degree
increasing towards the rear of the machine, sufficient to disentangle the straw, and place it in a position proper for the sweep
or action of the returning machine. On the interior side of

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

411

Mc Cormck v. Talcott et al.

the machine, or that on which the grain is to be severed, the
divider of McCormick is constructed of a bar of iron, confined
at the same point with the wooden bow above mentioned as
operating externally; and this iron bar is capable of being so
adjusted gs to disentangle and raise the wheat separated from
that standing. on the exterior of the machine; and by a lateral
and angular direction given this adjustable bar, as well as by
its vertical extension, it embraces and secures the wheat on the
interior side of the machine, and presses it to the action of the
reel and the cutters.
Such as has been just described, I hold to be McCormick's
divider, and-such, too, its operation and effects. Let us now
compare them with the structure and operation of the structure complained of as an infringement, in order to ascertain
how far the rival claims of the parties are identical or diverse.
And this comparison will be most fairly and satisfactorily
accomplished, and the results most clearly established, by a
recurrence to that silent but irresistible testimony already referred to, the testimony of the machines themselves.
On Manny's machine, the divider on the exterior side, or
the side of the standing grain, is formed of a piece of timber
which, according as fancy shall dictate, may be denominated a
bow, or by any other appellation which may be preferred. This
piece of timber, like the divider of McCormick's machine, is
-confined in front, and penetrates the standing grain in advance
of the cutters. Like McCormick's divider, it rises obliquely
from the stationary point in front, towards the rear of the machine, to a degree intended to be sufficient to separate and
support the straw, and in the same manner diverges in an
angle suppoaed to be great enough to secure that separation,
and to prevent the breaking down of any portion of the straw
by being pressed to the earth, or by being torn away by the
machine in its progress. On the interior side or section of
Manny's divider, there is no adjustable iron bar or rod, as a
part of the divider; but for this is substituted a piece of timer or a board, connected and confifned in the front of the
machine with the.wooden fixture extended on the outside next
the standing grain; and from that point of connection this
substituted board is protracted in a diverging angle, and,to a
length corresp6nding exactly with those of McCormick's adjustable iron bar, and, like the latter, it is gradually curved to
a vertical elevation intended to be great enofigh to separate
and raise up the wheat designed to be immediately severed by
the cutters from that reserved for farther action of the machine.
The only differences between this fixture and the adjustable
bar of McCormick (and they are merely pretended and de-

412

SUPREME COURT.
cCormick v. Talcott et a.

ceptive) are these: that the former, instead of being of iron,
is made of wood; that instead of being movable or adjustable,
it is stationary; that it is broader on its lateral surface than is
that of the iron portion of McCormick's divider, and on that
lateral surface is somewhat curved. But these differences,
correctly apprehended, are mere disguises, and were indispensable to shelter the possession of property evidently pirated
from the rightful owner. Had the appellees openly taken
McCormick's iron instrument, adjusted it so that it could be
graduated in practice to the quality or height of the grain in
which the machine was to operate, and placed it at an angle
suited to the conducting of the grain within the action of the
reel and cutters, there would in so bold a piracy have been left
no ground, no pretext even, for contest or cavil. Hence the
effort at distinctions or differences attempted in the case. To
my mind, it.seems impossible not to perceive that they are entirely unfounded, and cannot for one instant conceal these
truths, viz: that the instrument or structure called a divider,
introduced and practiced by the appellees, is in theory or principle, in manner of its operation, in its e/Jects or results, and it
mnay almost be said in its minute constituent portions and formation, identical with the instrument invented by and patented
to the appellant, and therefore an infringement of the rights
guarantied to him by the Government.
Efitertaining this opinion, I must dissent from the decision
of the court in this cause, and declare it as my opinion that
the decree of the Circuit Court should be reversed, and this
cause remanded with instructions to reinstate the injunction
formerly awarded by the Circuit Court, and to direct an account between the parties. The only legitimate inquiry for
the court is this: whether the improvement of McCormick
called a divider, and the instrument claimed and put in operation by Manny, are essentially the same, or are essentially or
substantially different. All that has been said (and a great
deal has been said) about the comparative superiority or
inferiority of inventions or improvements previous to those
patented to McCormick, is wholly irrelevant, and out of this
cause; and is calculated only to confound and to divert the
attention from the only proper subject of investigation here,
which is the rightfulness of the claims advanced by the appellant and appellees in this cause, relatively to themselves, and
to no others.

