878

SUPREME COURT.
Sikbry et al. v. Foote.

it in making the public surveys; and also from the opinion,
subsequently confirming this construction and practice, by the
Secretary of the Treasury and Attorney General, as late as the
year 1837. The decision in Brown v. Clements was made in
the December term, 1844.
It is possible that some rights may be disturbed by refusing
to follow the opinion expressed in that case; but we are satisfied that far less inconvenience will result from this dissent,
than by adhering to a principle which we think uidsound, and
which, in its practical operation, will unsettle the surveys and
subdivisions of fractional sections of the public land, running
through a period of some twenty-eight years. Any one familiar
with the vast tracts of the public domain surveyed and sold,
and tracts surveyed and yet unsold, within the period mentioned, can form some idea of the extent of the disturbance
and confusion that must inevitably flow from an adherence to
any such principle. We cannot, therefore, adopt that decision
or apply its principles in rendering the judgment of the court
in this case.
The judgment of the court below is reversed, and the proceedings remitted to the court, to award a venire, &c.

HORACE C. SILSBY, WASHBURN RACE, ABEL DOWNS, HENRY
I-ENION, AND EDWARD MYNDERSE, APPELLANTS, V. ELIsHA

FOOTE.
Foote's patent declared good, for the combination of machinery used in "the application of the expansive and contracting power of a metallic rod by different
degrees of heat, to open and close a damper which governs the admission of air
into a stove, in which such rod shall be acted upon directly by the heat of the
stove or the fire which it contains."
The award by the Circuit Court of damages for an infringement of the patent
affirmed, by an equal division of this court; but the allowance of interest overruled.
Where a patentee claims more than he is entitled to, his patent may still be good
for what is really his own, provided he enters a disclaimer for the surplus without any unreasonable delay. In this case, the patentee was allowed to recover
damages for an infringement, but not to recover costs, agreeably to the provisions of the act of Congress of the 3d March, 1837.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern distrint of New York, sitting as a court
of equity.
In May, 1842; Foote obtained a patent for an improvement

in regulating the draught or heat of stoves.. The claim which
he made was this:

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Szisby et al. V. Foote.

'What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure byletters patent, is the application of the expansive and contracting
power of a metallic rod by different degrees of heat, to open
and close a damper which governs the admission of air into a
stove or other structure in which it may be used, by which a
more perfect control over thle heat is obtained than can be by
"a damper in the flue.
I also claim as my invention the mode, above described of
letting the heat of a stove, at any requisite degree by which
different degrees of expansion are required, to open or close
the damper.
I also claim, the combination above described5 by which the
regulation of the heat of a stove or other structure in which it
may be used, is effected; and I also claim as my invention the
mode above described of connecting the action of the metallic
rods with the damper, so that the same may be disconnected
when the damper shall have closed, and the heat shall conELISHA FOOTE, Jr.
tinue to rise, &c.
Afterwards, in March, 1847, he filed the following disclaimer:
To the Commissioner of -Patents:
The petition of Elisha Foote, of Seneca Falls, in the county
of Seneca and State of New York, respectfully represents, that
your petitioner obtained letters patent of the United States for
an improvement in regalating the draught of stoves, which letters patent are dated on the 26th day of'lay, 1842; that he has
reason to believe that through inadvertence and mistake the
claim made in the specification of said letters patent in the
folloving words, to wit: "What I claim as my invention, and
desire to secure by letters patent, is the application of the expansive and contracting power of a metallic rod by different
dqrees of heat-to open and close a damper, which -overns the
admisslon of air into a stove or other structure in which-it
may be used, by which a more perfect control over the heat
is obtained than can be by a damper in the flhe," is too broad,
ificluding that of ,whichyour petitioner was not the firstinventor.
Your petitioner, therefore, hereby eiters ,his disclaimer to
so much of said claim as.. extends the applicatin,of the expa n sive and contracting power of a metallic, rod. :y,difgerent degrees of heat to any -other uSe or purpose, than-thht ofregalating the heat of a stove, in which such rod shall be abted uipon,
directly by the heat of the stove, or the fire whiqh it contains;
which disclaimer is to operate to the extenit of the interest in
saijletters patent vested in your:petitioner, , ohas aid, ten

SUPREME COURT.
M78by et al. v. Foote.

dollars into the treasury of the United States, agreeably to the
requirements, of the act of Congress in that case made and
provided.
This did not apply to the whole of his claim, but only to a
part of it.
In 14 How., 218, will be found the report of asuit which
Foote instituted against some of the present appellants. The
judgment of the court below being affirmed by this court, that
suit was brought to an end.
On the 9th of October, 1848, Foote filed his bill on the
equity side of the Circuit Court against the present appellants,
complaining that they continued their infringement upon his
patent, praying for an injunction, an account, &c., &c. After
other proceedings were had in the case, Mr. Justice Nelson
(in vacation, viz: September, 1850) ordered an issue to be made
up at law upon the first and third points of the claim, the second and fourth not being drawn into controversy. In June,
1851, the trial at law took place, which resulted in a verdict
for the defendants.
Afterwards, the cause came before the court, on a hearing
of the pleadings and proofs, and case made upon the trial of
the feigned issues; and after hearing of counsel for the respective parties, the court, on the 29th day of August, 1853, directed
the following order to be entered:
In .Equity.
This cause having been heard on argument by counsel for
the respective parties on the pleadings and proofs, and upon
the case made since the trial of the feigned issue therein, and
the court having considered the same, and being of the opinion
that the complainant was the first and original inventor of the
application of the expansion and contraction of the inflexible
metallic rod to the regulation of the heat of stoves, as described
and claimed in his patent, adjudge and decree that the defendants have infringed the said patent in making and vending the
regulators of stoves, as charged in the said bill of complaint,
and that the said complainant is entitled to have a perpetual
injunction to restrain said defendants, their agents, servants,
and 'all claiming or holding under or through them, from making, vending, or using, or in any manner disposing of any
regulator or regulators of stoves, embracing the invention or
improvements described in said letters patent, namely, any
regulator in which the expansive and contracting power of an
inflexible metallic rod, which expansion and contraction, if
produced. by changes in the heat of the stove regulated, shall

DECEMBER TERM, -1857.
Sit&

•881

et a?. V.Foote.

be applied to the damper to. regulate the heat thereof, and this
notwithstanding the verdict of the jury upon the feigned issue,
heretofore rendered on the trial, of the same.
And it is further adjudged and decreed, that the cause be
referred to Augustus A. Boyce, Esq., the clerk of this court,
to ascertain and report the number 'of regulators for stoves
embracing the principle aforesaid that have been made, and
also the number sold by the said defendants, or either of them,
since the 28d day of March, 1847, and the damages complainant has sustained, or use and profits the defendants, or either
of them, have deiived by reason of such infringement, since
the time last aforesaid; and, upon the.coming in and c6nfirmation of the said report, that said .complainant have a decree
and execution for the amount found due to him. and'also for
the costs in this suit, to be taxed.
It appeared from the record that the court, on the trial of
the feigned issues, instructed the jury that the first claim of
the patentee was disproved by the prior construction of the"
Saxton stove, and that the patent must rest for its validity upon
the other claims.
In June, 1854, the master made his report, which .was very
voluminous. and to which both parties filed numerous exceptionsi s6me of which were overruled and others allowed by the
court. The result of some of the rulings made a further reference to the master necessary, when both parties expressed a
desire that the court should make the examination itself. This
was accordingly done, when the following decree was passed,
viz:
This court having accordingly made. such examination and
determination, it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
and this court; by virtue of the power and authority therein
vested, doth farther order, adjudge, determine, and decree, that
the said defendants are respectively liable to the said complainant for the sums of money hereinafter set forth, in the manner
hereinafter particularly mentioned, for theirprofits of the use
by the said defendants, or such of them as are hereinafter partieularly declared liable therefor, of the said invention of the
complainant, described and secured to him by letters patentgranted to the said complainant, as set forth in the bill of complaint in this cause, which use was unauthorized and an infringement and violation of the rights of the said complainant,
under the said patent; that is to. say, that the said defendant,
Horace C. Silsby, either severally or jointly with others of said
defendants, is liable for and chargeable with the sum of twenty-

SUPREME COURT.
,ilb el al. v. Foo&e.

three thousand six hundred and forty-four dollars and twentytwo cents ($23,644.22;) that of the said last-mentioned sum
the said defendant, Washburn Race, is in like manner liable
for the sum of eighteen thousand one hundred and eighty-two
dollars and six cents ($18,182.06;) that of the said first-mentioned sum the -said defendant, Edward Mynderse, is in like
manner liable for and chargeable with the sum of fifteen thousand nine hundred and sixteen dollars and twelve cents; and
that of the said first-mentioned sum the said defendant, Henry
Henion, is liable for and chargeable with the sum of three
thousand one hundred and fifty-four dollars and eighty-five
cents; and that of the said first-mentioned sum the said defendant, Abel Downs, is liable for and chargeable with the
sum of three thousand two hundred and sixty-seven dollars
and thirty-seven cents.
And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, and this
court, by virtue of the power and authority therein vested, doth
order, adjudge, and decree, that each of the said defendants
pay to the said complainant the sum~which such defendant is
above declared and decreed to be liable for and chargeable
with, and interest thereon, until such payment, or so much
thereof as shall be necessary, together with the sums previously
paid by the other defendants, to pay off and discharge the firstmentioned sum of twenty-three thousand six hundred and fortyfour dollars and twenty-two cents, and interest thereon, from
the entry of this decree; and the evidence in this cause not
enabling the court now to determine with precision the rights
of such defendants as between themselves, in respect to the
sums for which each of such defendants is liable to contribute
to the other, it is further ordered and decreed, that the sums
paid by or collected from the property of each defendant, under
this decree, shall be first -applied in payment and discharge
of the amount, if ay, for which said defendant is solely liabfe,
and next to the payment and discharge of such amount, if
-any, as the said defendant and the' least number of the other
defendants is liable, in such manner as to give to the said
complainant his just and full rights against each 'and all'said
defendants; and if any controversy or question shall arise in
respect'to the proper application of any moneys so paid or
collected, either defendant or*party may apply to this cout,
apon. affidavit and due notice to the adverse party in interest,
for instructions in respect to the application thereof, or the
stay of further executions against any single defendant, or any
portion of such defendants, on the ground that the whole sum
for which he .is hereby made liable has been paid by himself
and other defendants jointly liable therefor.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Si

3883

et a. v.Foote.

And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the
sAid defendants pay to the said, complainant his costs in this
suit, to be taxed, with interest thereon from-the taxation and
allowance thereof until paid, and that he have executions for
such costsl, and for the sums above decreed to be paid him as
aforesaid; but such execution against the defendants other
than the said defendants Horace 0. Silsby4 shall be only for
such costs, and the amount for which such defendants are
hereinbefore respectively declared to be liablb.
S. NELSON.

N. K. HA.
From this decree the complainant and respondents both appealed; but as the case of the respondents' appeal came on
first for argument, it only is noticed. Both-cases Were decided
together
The case was argued in this court by -Mr.Keller and Mr.
.Blatchford for the appellants, and by Mr. Foote in proper person for the appellee.
The counsel for the appellants directed their attention exclusively to the first claim of the patent, which was in fact the
only one involved in the controversy. They denied1. The validity of the patent.
2. Its novelty.
3. Its utility.
4. .The infringement and the liability of the .defendants
below.
'The principal objection to the validity-of the -patent was the
nature of the subject, which, it was contended, was exactly
,similar in its general character to the eighth claim of Morse,
-which this couit decided to be invalid. (O'Reilly v. Morse, 15
How., 62.)
On the subject of the novelty of the invention, the counsel
contended that the Saxton stove and Arnott improved stove
were both prior in point of time, and in both of them the principle of the expansion and contraction of a metallic rod was
applied to regulate a damper, by causing it to open and close
according to the heat of tht stove. But it is in vain to attempt
to follow the counsel for the appellants in the various branches
of their argument, which occupied nearly fifty pages of a
printed"brief.

Mr. Foote argued his own case, and thus explained his inventionz

884

SUPREME COURT.
Silby et al. v. Foote.

The complainant's invention consisted in the application of
the expansive and contracting power of an inflexible metallic
rod to regulate the heat of stoves. The great difficulty, in
making this application, arose from the indispensable necessity
of providing a detaching process. In the complainant's apparatus, after an increase of heat has entirely closed the damper,
should the temperature from any cause continue to rise, the
levers which communicate the action of the rod to the dampers
disconnect themselves from it, and are free to move on to any
extent to which the stove may be heated; and on the heat's
returning to the same point, they will reconnect themselves
with the damper and resume their appropriate functions. In
like manner, should the fuel burn out and the heat continue
to fall, after the damper has been fully opened, the levers will
become detached, until the temperature shall have been again
restored to the desired degree.
The office of a regulator is to produce an uniform heat; and
to attain this object, it is necessary to give such increase of
motion to the action of the rod, that a small change of heatsay from five to ten degrees-shall be sufficient to open or close
the damper. Then, slight variations from the desired point,
operating upon the damper, keep very nearly a uniform temperature, sufficiently so for all pfactical purposes. Were it
constructed otherwise, it might be a thermometer, to show the
degree of heat, but would not bg a regulator, to control it. But
the variations of temperature in a common stove exceed one
thousand degrees. And unless provision was made for excessive changes, the apparatus would destroy itself. It could not
be used for a stove regulator.
Several attempts had been made, previous to the complainant's invention, to apply the inflexible, rod as a regulator to
some other purposes, where it was subjected to such changes
only as take place in water, or atmospheric air, and where a
detaching process was not deemed to be essential. But we
have no evidence that such attempts were ever successful, or
were anywhere in practical use, or had ever been known beyond the books in which they are described. But to the stove,
with its excessive variations, it does not appear that any one
ever attiempted its application.
The efforts previously made to produce a stove regulator
were in a different direction. When two thin, flexible, and
elastic slips of metal, of unequal expansibilities, are soldered,
or otherwise attached together, a change of heat, affecting one
more than the other, produces a flexure or curvature of the
instrument. And as its elasticity enabled it to yield to any
excessive change, and obviated the necessity of a detaching

DECEMBER TERAM 1857.

885

Silsby et al. v. Foote.

process, its application to a stove was easy and apparent. But
an insuperable difficulty was found in its use. -When an elastic
piece of metal is bent and heated, it takes a new form, or, as it
is termed, "sets" into that position. The effect is gradual at
moderate. temperatures, and instantaneous at high. The instrument, besides, was necessarily made slight, in order to have
the requisite flexibility. And .although very useful for some
purposes, its application to stoves was but a series of unsuc-

cessful experiments.
All the difficulties were overcome in the complainant's application of the inflexible rod, and a really practical and effect-.
ual stove regulator was, for the first time, produced.
Mr. Justice IELSOIN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the northern district of New York.
The bill was filed in the court below by Foote against the
defendants for an alleged infringement of a patent for an improvement in regulating the draught or heat of stoves. Th6
bill, among other things, set out a trial at. law between the parties upon the patent, and a verdict for the plaintiff; that the
defendants since the trial and verdict continued their infringement, and had even increased the business of making and vendingthe complainant's stove regulators.
,
The complainant prayed for an account, and that the defendants be restrained by injunction from further infringements.
IThe defendants put in an answer, to which there was a replication. Afterwards feigned issues were ordered by the court,
to Iry the questions whether or not the patentee was the, first
and original inventor of the application of the exp.nsive nd
contracting power of the metallic rod, by different degrees of
heat, to open and close the damper which governs the admissien of air intoa stove; and, also, whether or not he was the
first and original inventor of the combination described in. his
patent, by which the regulation of the heat of a stove in which
it might be used was effected.

-

I

The jury, after hearing the proofs upon these issues, returned
a verdict in the negative. -Afterwards the cause came before
the court upon the pleadings and proofs, and the case made
upon the trial of the feigned issues; and after hearing the
arguments of counsel for the respective parties, held, that the
patent was valid, notwithstanding the verdict 6f the jury on
the feigned issues, and also that the defendants hadbeen guilty
of an infringement, and referred the cause-to a master, to ascertain, and report the profits which the defendants had derived
by reason of said infringement. A most voluminous record,
VOL. xx.

25

SUPREME COURT.
Si/bsy et al. v. Foote.

:f testimony was taken before the master, and on the 17th
June, 1854, he reported profits made by the defendants to the
amount of $2,650. Thirty exceptions were filed to the report
by the counsel for the complainant, and eighteen by the defendants, and were argued before the court. The view the court
has taken of the case here renders it unimportant to refer particularly or specially to the decision of the court below upon
each of these exceptions. After disposing of them, the court,
agreeably to an earnest request of the counsel that the cause
should not be again sent down to the master, but that the
court, upon the evidence before it, should ascertain the amount
of profits to which the complainant was entitled, entered upon
the inquiry, and, after a laborious and minute examination of
a record of some six hundred closely printed octavo pages of
proofs, found an aggregate of profits to the amount of $17,980.40,
and an aggregate of interest, averaged, of $5,663.82, making a
total of $23,644.22. And on the 28th of August, 1856, a final
decree was entered for the complainant against the defendants
for this amount, with the costs to be taxed.
The cause is now before this court on appeal.
The difference of opinion among the judges of this court in
respect to the amount of profits that should be allowed to the
complainant, precludes the delivery of any written opinion on
this branch of the case. The decree of the court below as to
the .amount, with the exception of the interest, is affirmed by
a divided court. A majority of the court are of opinion that
there was error in the allowance of interest on the profits
found for the complainant. That amount, therefore, which is
$5,663.82, must be deducted.
This court is also of opinion that the court below erred in
awarding costs of the complainant against the defendants.
The first claim of the patentee in his patent was disproved
by the prior construction and use of what is called in the case
the Saxton stove, and no disclaimer was entered according to
the requirements of the act of Congress 3d March, 1837. By
the ninth section of that act it is provided, that when a patentee
by mistake shall have claimed to be the inventor of more than
he is entitled to, the patent shall still be good for what shall
be truly and bona fide his own, and he shall be entitled to
maintain a suit in law or equity for an infringement of this
part of the invention, notwithstanding the specification claims
too much. But in such case, if jiidgment or decree be rendered for the plaintiff, he shall not recover costs against the
defendant, unless he shall have entered a disclaimer in the
Patent Oirce of the thing patented, to which he has no right,
prior to the commencement of the suit. There is also another

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Sik y et al. v. Foote.

condition, namely, that the plaintiff shall not be entitled to
the benefits of the section, if he has unreasonably neglected or
delayed to enter the disclaimer.
The Saxton stove was produced on the trial of the feigned
issues, after this suit had been commenced, and the question
has been in controversy from thence to the present time,
whether or not the arrangement, construction, and use of that
stove, had the effect to disprove the first claim in the complainant's patent. It would be going too far, therefore, under these
circumstances, to hold that the delay in entering the disclaimer was unreasonable within the meaning of the statute.
_Amajority of the court is of opinion the delay has not been
unreasonable within the meaning of the act, so as to defeat the
recovery.
According to our conclusions, the decree of the court below
is reversed as to the $5,663.82 interest, and also as to the costs
allowed the complainant, and affirmed as to the residue, without costs to either party in this court; and that the case be
remitted to the court below to enter a decree for th6 complainant against the defendants in conformity to this opinion, and
proceed to the execution of the same.
Mr. Justice DAIUEL and Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.
Mr. Justice DANIEL:
I concur entirely in the views expressed by my brother
GRIER in this cause. I have always regarded the patent of
the complainant void upon its face. I moreover consider
the decree of the Circuit Court inconsistent with the claim of
the complainant, unwarranted by any evidence in the cause,
and most unjust and oppressive in its operation-,
"
Mr. Justice GRIER dissenting:
Although I may occasionally zdiffer in opinion with the ma
jority of my brethren, my usual custom has been to submit to
their better judgment, without remark. But in this case I feel
constrained to protest against a decree which, in my opinion,
does great and manifest injustice to the appellants. In- doing
so, it is proper thatUI thus state my reasons as briefly as posgi-ble, without an attempt at their full vindication by a tedious
argument.
1. believe the patent of complainant to be -void on, it' face.
The first claim is-for the application of the.-"expansive and
contracting power of a metallic rod, by different degrees of,
heat, to open and close a damper which governs the admission
of air into a stove."

888

SUPREME COURT.
kilsby et al. v. Foote.

Now, this claim is faise in fact. The patentee was not the
first to make this application of the different degrees of expansion of metals to open and close a damper to a stove. The
evidence is clear, explicit, and uncontradicted. Moreover, a
jury has so found in an issue ordered in this case, and which
verdict does not appear to have been set aside, although it was
disregrarded in the decision of the case.
This claim, even if it were true in fact, is clearly void in law,
unless we agree to reverse the doctrine laid down by this court
in the case of O'Reilly v. Morse, with regard to the eighth
claim of Morse's patent. Besides, at the trial at law, the Circuit Court decided, -in 1848, that this first claim could not be
sustained. Yet, with ten years' judicial notice of this defect
in his patent, the patentee has never amended it, entered a
disclaimer, or attempted to avail himself of the privilege offered
to him by the statute to rescue it from this charge, so destructive to its validity.
At common law, a patent having this infirmity was absolutely void. The patent act of 1836, section 13, provides a remedy,
"where a patent is inoperative and void, by reason of a patentee's claiming in his specification as his invention more than
he had a right to claim, and when the error has arisen through
inadvertence or mistake."
In such a case, the patentee is permitted to surrender his
patent, and, on payment of a further sum, have his patent
reissued as corrected, But he was not permitted to recover
any damage for infringement which occurred before the date
of the reissued patent.
The patent act of 1837, section 7, gives a further*privilege
to the patentee of escaping the consequences of such a defect,
"where his patent is too broad," by permitting him to enter a
disclaimer, to be taken and considered as part of the original
specification. It does not subject him to the costs of a new
patent, nor to the forfeiture of antecedent damages, where the
disclaimer is made during the pendency of a suit, but gives the
defendant a right to object to its validity on account of unreasonable neglect and delay in filing it.
The ninth section of the same act provides for the case where
"the patentee, in his specification, has claimed to be the inventor of any material or substantial part of the thing patented,
of which he was not the first inventor, and provided it be distinguishable from other parts claimed in his patent. He is
permitted to sustain his action for such part as is bona fide his
own invention, forfeiting his right to costs where he has not
filed a disclaimer before suit brought. But no person, bringing any such suit, shall be entitled to the benefits of this sec-

.

*DECEMiBER TERMf, 1857.

889

Sals et ad. v. Foote.

tion, who sh.all have unreasonably neglected or delayed to enter
,
at the Patent -Office a disclaimer, as aforesaid."
Now, the irst claim of this patent does fiot come within the
category of the ninth section. It is not for "a material and
substantial part of the thing, distinguishable from other parts,"
but it is-the caie embraced in the seventh section, where the
claim is void, because it is too broad.
Here the claim is for a monopoly of the expansive power of
metals when applied to a stove, and this' expansive power is a
necessary agent in every claim for a combination in the patent,
The seventh section gives the patentee no right to recover
at all, unless a disclaimer has been filed before trial or judgment. But, assuming that the privilege given by the nintl
section be available to the patentee iir this case, has he brought
himself within the proviso? He has refused to avail himself
of the privilege tendered to himi bythe law, 'nd stands upon
his patent. Rotwithstanding the decision of the Circuit Codirt
against this claim in 1848; notwithstanding the decision of this
court in O'Reilly v.. Morse; notwiftstanding the verdict in
1853, declaring this claim false, no disclaimer has ever been
entered. The pendency of the suit coula be no reason, for the
acts contemplate a pending suit. I cannot consent, to say that
this is not a case not only of unreasonable delay, but of stubI
born rejection of the privilege offered by the law.
as
a
precebe
quoted
candot
v.
Morse
The case of O'Reilly
dent for this. There, Morse was admitted to be the original
inventor of the application of an-element of nature in his eighth
claim; but the court decided that it was void, because it was
too broad. Until that decision was read in court, the patentee
had not the least reason to suspecthis claim tb be invalid. The
decision was a surprise not only to him, but-many others more'
learned in the law, who had carefully examined this claim, and
advised the patentee that it was valid. In the piesent case, the
patentee disregarded the judgment of a Circuit Court, a verdict
of a jury, and judgment of this court,.all of whichwarned him of
the necessity of a disclaimer, many years before final judgment.
I cannot consent to annul the statute altogether, and allow
its benefits to a patentee who has stubbornly refused to submit
to the conditions on which they are-tendered.
H1. The interlocutory decree of the court-below does not
condemn the defendants for infringing the third claim of the
complainant's patent, on which alone it was decided ou'the
trial at law the defendant was liable, and on which it is now
attempted to justify this decree. What that decree is, must be
judged by the record, and not by any parol expldnaions or
contradictions of it.
-

SUPREME COURT.
Silsby et al. v. Foote.

The decree affirms1st. That the plaintiff was the first inventor of the application
of the expansion and contraction of the inflexible metallic rod
to the regulation of the heat of stoves.
2d. That any regulator in which the expansive and contracting power of an inflexible metallic rod, which expansion and
contraction is produced by changes in the heat of the stove
regulated, is applied to the damper to regulate the heat of the
stove, is embraced within the principle ofdthe invention claimed
in the patent.
3d. That the defendants have made and sold regulators enibracing that principle.
4th. That they must account for all regulators made and
sold by them, which embrace that principle.
This decree charges the defendant with the infringement of
the first claim of the patent, and is in confbrmity with the doctrines advanced in the charge of the court, on the issue tried
before them, where the court thus define the claim of the patent:
"Now, in this case, as I understand the claim of the patentee,
he claims the application of the principle of expansion and contraction in a metallic rod for the purpose of regulating the heat
of a stove. That is the new conception which he claims to
have struck out, and, although the mere abstract conception
would not have constituted the subject-matter of a patent, yet,
when it is reduced to practice by any means, old or new, resulting usefully, it is thesubject of a patent, independently of the
machinery by which the application is made."
Again speaking of the first claim, he says:
"That claim is not for any mode or method of applying the
expansion and contraction of the metallic rod to regulate the
heat of the stove, but it is for the conception of the idea itself"
The interlocutory decree says, therefore, in effect, that the
brass rod regulators, which the defendants admit in their answers that they made and sold, are infringements of the plaintiff's patent, because they embrace the principle of the application of the expansive and contracting power of an inflexible
metallic rod to the damper of a stove. And the master is directed to take an account of all regulators that fall within the
principle specified, no matter what their mechanical structure
is or how they may differ from the regulators of which the
plaintiff gives a description in his specification, and no matter
whether they embrace or not anything that the plaintiff claims
in either his second, his third, or his fourth claim. The plaintiff and the court below say, in effect, that they do not care for
any proof as to whether any claim of the patent but the first is
infringed; and that, as the defendants have been guilty of ap-

•DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

391

,Sibyet al. v. Foote.

plying the expansive and contracting power of an inflexible
metallic rod to open and. close the damper ofa stove in which
changes in the heat of the stove produce the expansion and
contraction, they must respond for all instances of such application.

-

The defendants are found guilty of infringing the first claim
of the patent alone. No testimony was pyoduced in the case
to show that the Race patent infringed the third claim, and this
fact was emphatically denied in the answer., Nor was the verdict and judgment at law put in evidence. And if it had been,
it is no estoppel in equity to the defendants' putting the truth
of that charge of the bill in issue in his answer. That verdict
and judgment is put into the bill, as laying a proper ground
for the granting of the preliminary injunction. Nor is it true,
as now asserte, that this court has decided the question in the,
case of Silsby 'v. Foote, 14 Howard, 225.
On that trial the cour. belowy had instructed the jury, "that
the defendants had not infringed the plaintiff's patent unless
they had used all the parts embraced in the plaintiff's combination," and submitted the question to the jury whether there
had been such infringement.
This instruction was adjudged by this court to be correct.-,
The question whether the verdict was correct was not before
this court, and could not have been decided.
The third claim which it is -now alleged to be infringed is as
follows:
"I also claim the combination above esribed, by which the
regulation of the heat of a stove or other structure, nhich it
..
I .........
may be used, is effected."
The law requires that a patent should "particularly specify
and point out the part, improvement, or combination, which
the patentee claims as his own invention."
This claim does not specify the combination claimed, otherwise than by reference to the body-'of the specification where
two distinct and complex combinations of numerous parts and
,
devices are set forth.
After a full and fair trial, the jury have found, on an issue
directed for that purpose, that the complainant was not the
'first and original inventor of the combinations set forth in this
claim. But assuming that the court may disregard this verdict, and, without setting it aside or ordering a new trial of
the issue, treat it as a nullity; and assuming, that without any
testimony whatever being offired in the case, the court may,
on view of the models, declare that the defendants' patent infringes that of complainant; and assuming the doctrine affirmed
by this court in Silsby v. Foote, and McCormick v. Manny,

392

SUPREME COURT.
i8lsby et al. v. Foote.

to be correct, "that defendant has not infringed plaintiff's
patent unless he has used all the parts embraced in plaintiff's
combination," I think it is clear to ocular demonstration that
the defendants have not infringed either of the combinations
claimed, unless we assert that all other combinations which
prod uce the same result are equivalents for the first-a sophism
which has just been rejected by this court in the case of McCormick v. Manny. A vindication or demonstration of the correctness of this conclusion could not be made intelligible unless
by a long recital from the specification, and an exhibition of
models or diagrams. The decree of the court below very properly does not assert or adjudge that defendants have used the
complex combination of complainant's specification in any of
its numerous parts save one-the expanding rod. On this point,
therefore, my objection to the affirmance of any portion of this
decree is, because it is founded on a claim admitted to be void
in law, and is sustained by presuming, contrary to the record,
that it was founded on a claim found by verdict in the case to
be void in fact, and without any proof of infringement save
ocular demonstration of the contrary.
III. But, assuming the verdict of 1848 between the present
complainant and some of the defendants to be conclusive as
an estoppel on all of them, notwithstanding the denial of the
answer and the evidence of our senses, yet that verdict was
between the complainant's patent and the Race patent, which
is called the "brass-rod regulator," then used by the defendants. It had no reference whatever to the "expander patent,"
afterwards used by defendants. There is no charge in the
bill that the combination of this last patent infringes the complainant's patent. There was no evidence offered to prove
such to be the fact. The master's report declares it not to be
an infringement of the combination of the third claim-it is
patent to the eyes of any one who will examine the models,
that it does not; yet, because it used the expansive power of
metals, the defendants are mulcted in the sum of $7,033 damages, not for invading the complainant's rights, but for evading
his patent by a patented invention for a different combination.
I forbear to make any further remarks on this enormity, because it is affirmed by the division of the court, and their opinion has, happily, not been compelled to defend it by argument.
As it is without precedent, so neither can it be cited as such
hereafter.
IV. Lastly, after a very long and laborious investigation,
the master has found that the profit of making and vending
the machine charged as an infringement, is ten cents on each
regulator. This finding of the report was excepted to by the

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

393

_Peo
pld, Ferry Company of Boston v. Beer et aZ.

complainant. The court overruled the exception and confirmed
the report on this point; and, nevertheless, assess the damage
at ten-fold the amount. By what process of reasoning or arifmetic, on what facts or what principle of law, this astonishing and ruinous decree is founded, it does not undertake to
explain. I can conceive of no other ground than that the
court have calculated the whole profit of the stove, as was
done in the case of Seymour v. McCormick, and overruled by
this court.
Believing, therefore, that the decree of this court, so far as
it affirms any portion of the decree of the Circuit Court, is not
only unsustained by evidence, but contrary to the law as heretofore established by this court, I cannot give my assent to it.

THE PEOPLE'S FERRY Co MPANY OF BOSTON, CLAIMA.S OF TiHE
STEAMBOAT JEFFERSON, APPELLANTS, V. JOSEPH BEERS AND

DAVID WARNER, ASSIGNEES

oF B. C. TERRY.

The admiralty jurisdiction of the courts of the United States does not extend to
cases where a lien is claimed by the builders of a vessel for work done and materials found in its construction.
Whether the District Courts can enforce a lien in such cases, where the law of the
State where the vessel was built gave a lien for its 'construction, is a questiopwhich the court does not now decide.
1
.
.
[MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TANEY, HAVING MEEN INDISPOSED-, DID NOT SIT IN TUIS CAUSE.]

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court, of the United

States for the southern district of New York.
"
The facts of the case are stated in the opinioh of the court.
It was argued by Mr. O'Connor for the appellants, and Mr.
Benedict for the appellees.
Mr. O'Connormade the following points:
First .Point.-A.contract to build and complete, a ship or vessel is not within the admiralty jurisdiction of the United States
courts, though it be intended to employ her in navigating the
ocean, and even though the employer bea citizen or inhabitant of some other State or country than that in which the
work is to be done; much less is a contract merely to construct
the hull of an intended vessel within that jurisdiction.
I. The Constitution and laws of the United States conferred
on the courts of the Union the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, as it existed at our separation from the parent State,
under a just view of :English jrisp udence.
.

