SUPREME COURT.
Hyde et al. v. Stone.

JOHN E. HYDE AND JOSEPH H. OGLESBY, TRADING UNDER THE
NAME AND STYLE OF HYDE & OGLESBY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,

v. HENRY L. STONE.
Where a suit was brought upon a bill of exchange in one of the State courts of
Louisiana, and by that court was transferred to another State court for the purpose of being connected with Certain proceedings in insolvency, and this transfer was pleaded in bar in the Circuit Court of the United States to the prosecution of the suit in that court upon the bill, the plea was not good.
The jurisdiction of the courts of the United States over controversies between
citizens of different States cannot be impaired by the laws of the States, which
prescribe the modes of redress in their own courts, or which regulate the distribution of their judicial power.
The insertion of the bill amongst the debts of the insolvent upon his schedule, is
evidence of the fact of notice; and the sufficiency of the evidence was a question
for the jury, and is not subject to review in this court.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
On the 2d of January, 1850, Stone, being then in New Orleans, purchased from Hyde & Oglesby a bill of exchange, of
which the following is a copy, with the notarial protest thereof.
NEw ORLEANS, January 2d, 1850.
Sixty days after sight of this second of exchange, first unpaid,
pay to the order of ourselves fifteen hundred dollars, value received, which place to account W. Barton, as advised.

$1,500.

HYDE & OGLESBY.

To P. Frothinghan, Esq., Boston.
Endorsed: Pay H. L. STONE.
HYDE & OGLESBY.
H. L. STONE,

By H. W. HERBERT, Att'y.
[Acceptance on face:] January 15, 1850.
PETER FROTHINGHAM.
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS,

Sqffolk, City of Boston, ss:

On this nineteenth day of March, in the year of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and fifty, I, Henry Clark, notary
public, by legal authority admitted and sworn, and dwelling
in the city of Boston, at the request of J. J. Loving, Esq.,
cashier North Bank of Boston, went with the original bill of
exchange, of which the foregoing is a true copy, to the counting-room, in this city, of Peter Frothingiam, the acceptor,
and presenting said bill to him, demanded payment thereof,

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

171

Hyde el al. v. Stone.

the time therein limited .and grace having elapsed, to which
he answered, that said bill would not be paid.
I sent noiice of the non-payment thereof to the drawers and
first endorsers, requiring payment of them, by mail, to New
Orleans.
Wherefore I, the said notary, at the request aforesaid, have
protested, and by these presents do solemnly protest, against
the drawers of said bill, and endorsers, acceptor, and all others
concerned therein, for exchange, re-exchange, and all costs,
charges, damages, and interest, suffered and sustained, or to be
suffered and sustained, by reason or in consequence of the nonpayment of said bill.
Thus done and protested, in Boston aforesaid, and, my notarial seal affixed, the day and year last written.
(Signed)
HENRY CLARK, [seal.]
IVotary -Public.
Stone brought suit upon this bill in the fifth District Courtof New Orleans, in March, 1853; whereupon, the defendants
filed an exception to the jurisdiction of the court, upon the
ground that they had previously made a surrender of their property to their creditors in the third District Court of New Orleans,
and that all proceedings were stayed against them. The exception Turther stated that the plaintiff was put upon their
schedule as a creditor; Wherefore they prayed that the suit of
plaintiff be transferred and cumulated with the insolvency
proceedings in the third District Court of New Orleans.
On the 31st of May, 1853, the fifth District Court sustained
the exception, and ordered the costs to be paid out of the mass
of property surrendered.
On the 1st of May, 1854, Stone brought his action in the
Circuit Court of the United States.
The defendants pleaded in abatement, that Stone was a citizen of.Louisiana, and therefore incompetent to sue in the
Federal court, and in bar that the question had become res
judicataby the maintenance of the exception in the fifth District Court. The case went to trial upon an agreed statement
of facts, whereof those recited above are the most material;
and at November term, 1855, the court gave judgment for the
plaintiff. The defendants brought the case to this court by a
writ of error.
It was argued by Mr. Benjamin for the plaintiffs in error,
- and Mr. Taylor for the defendant.
The argument of Mr. Benjaminupon the effect of the proceed.

SUPREME COURT.
Hyde et al. v. Stone.

ings in insolvency is omitted, because the court did not think
that question was raised by the record in the case. His point
with regard to the notice of the dishonor of the bill was thus
stated:
I. The defendants are discharged from responsibility as drawers and endorsers of the bill, by reason of the laches of the
holder, in failing to give notice of non-payment.
The law of Louisiana on this subject has reference exclusively to protests made by notaries of that State. (Acts of 1855,
p. 48.)
By the law merchant, it is clear, without citation or authorities, that the protest of a foreign bill of exchange is not legal
evidence of any other fact than that of presentment and refusal
to pay. A statement volunteered by the notary, that he put
into the post office a notice of protest to the drawer, is .not legal
evidence of the fact.
Even if the law of Louisiana were applicable to the case
under consideration, the evidence is insufficient. The protest,
as annexed to the petition, and made part of it, shows that it is
not such a protest as is alone permitted by that law to be received as proof of notice. It is not signed by two witnesses.
(McAfee v. Doremus, 5 How., 53.)
II. In the absence of proof of notice, an attempt is made to
fasten responsibility on defendants by proof of waiver of notice.
The waiver is said to result from the acknowledgment of the
debt set forth in the eighth article of the statement of facts.
To this presumption of waiver there are two fatal objections:
The first is, that it if nowhere stated at what date the acknowledgment was made. If the schedule of insolvency was
filed before the maturity of the bill, (and there is no proof of
the contrary,) it was still the duty of insolvents to place the
bill on their schedule as a debt due by them, and to put the
name of the holder, if known, in the list of creditors. (Bainbridge v. Clay, 3 Martin's U. S., 262; Deslix v. Schmidt, 18
Louisiana Rep., 466.)
The -second is, that an acknowledgment of the indebtedness,
if it ever can be considered to amount to a waiver of laches, is
confined to cases where the party making the acknowledgment
knew of the laches. The proof of his knowledge of the laches
must be clear, or no waiver will be presumed. (§tory on Notes,
sees. 362, 363, and notes; Story on Bills, sec. 320; Chitty on
Bills, p. 500, Am. edi., 1842; Thornton v. Wynn, 12 Wheat.,
183.)
In Louisiang, the doctrine is extremely rigid. (See the cases
and principles collected in Hennen's Digest, Verbo, Bills and
Notes, XL)

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

178

Hyd et al. v. Stone.

Mr. Taylor, for the defendant in error, made the following
points:
I. The judgment on the exceptions filed in the case in the
third District Court of New Orleans, in the State of Louisiana,
was not a final judgment, and is no bar to any other proceedings on the cause of action set up in the case.
!T. The fact that H. L. Stone, the plaintiff in the court
below, was a citizen of Massachusetts, proved on the trial, and
that the bill of exchange sued on was bought by him individually, and with his personal funds, as shown by the statement
of facts agreed to and signed by the parties, gave the Circuit Court of the United States jurisdiction. (Constitution
U. S.)
III. The defendant in error, II.L. Stone, performed no act
to make himself a party to the proceedings in insolvency in the
third District Court of New Orleans.
IV. The plaintiffs, in error are legally bound to pay H. L.
Stone the amount of the bill of exchange sued on, because,
first, legal notice of its protest for non-payment was given them;
and, second, they acknowledged itto be due and owing by them
in their schedule filed in the proceedings in their insolvency.
(Shed v. Brott, 1 Pick., 401.)
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error instituted his suit in the Circuit Court,
as the endorsee of a bill of exchange, payable in B6ston, of
which the plaintiffs in error were drawers, payees, and endorsers,
and which bears date at New Orleans.
The defendants answered the petition, and averred that the
plaintiff was a: citizen of Louisiana, and the said bill of exchange a Louisiana contract, and governed by the law of that
State. That the plaintiff resided in Louisiana when the defendants surrendered their property in insolvency in the third District Court of New Orleans, and to the proceedings therein the
plaintiff became a party. That, subsequently thereto, the said
plaintiff instituted a suit on the said bill of exchange in the
fifth District Court of that city; and, on an exception filed by
the defendants, -informing that court of those facts, the same
was sustained, and the said suit was transferred to the third
District Court of New Orleans, and made part of the aforesaid
insolvent proceedings therein; by which the right of plaintiff
to have and maintain this action in the Circuit Court is barred;
and the question has become resjudicata.
With this exception to the jurisdiction of the court, the defendants, filed a general denial of their indebtedness to the
plaintiff. The cause was submitted to the Circuit Court upon

SUPREME COURT.
Hyde et a?. v. Stone.

an agreed statement, and judgment was rendered for the plaintiff without the intervention of a jury.
From that statement it appears that the bill was duly protested for non-payment; and the notary in Boston certifies, "I
sent notice of the non-payment to the drawers and first endorsers, requiring payment of them, by mail, to New Orleans,
on the day of the protest." That the plaintiff has always been
a citizen og Massachusetts; that his family resided there, and
he had a commercial establishment there; that he .is a partner in a commercial establishment at N~w Orleans, and generally spent a portion of the winter months in that city, and
then returned to Massachusetts; and that this bill was purchased in the city of New Orleans, on his own account. It further appears that the plaintifi, before the commencement of
this suit, sued the defendant in the fifth District Court of New
Orleans, on this bill; that the defendant appeared and answered
that the fifth District Court had no jurisdiction, because the
defendant had made a surrender of his property to his creditors in the third District Court of New Orleans, which surrender
had been accepted, and all proceedings stayed against him; and
that the plaintiff was put upon his schedule as a creditor; and
he prayed that the suit of the plaintiff be transferred and cumulated with the insolvency proceedings in the third District
Court -in New Orleans; that thereupon the fifth District Court,
before the comnencement of the present suit, decreed that the
exception herein filed be maintained, and the costs paid out of
the mass of the property surrendered. It further appears that
the plaintiff performed no act to make himself a party to the
proceedings in insolvency :a the third District Court, and that
no notice of those proceedings had ever been served on him;
but that the bill of exehang' described in his petition was enumerated among his debts, and the firm of H. L. Stone & Co.,
of New Orleans, which was supposed to be the holder of the
bill, was placed on the schedule among the other creditors of
the insolvents.
The question whether a foreign bill of exchange, sold by a
merchant in New Orleans to a person who has a commercial
house there, but whose domicil is at the place where the bill
is payable, and where he resided when the proceedings in insolvency were instituted, is affected by them when he does not
make himself a par.ty to those proceedings, is not involved in
this case. The defendant did not plead the pendency of those
proceedings, or the decree of the third District Court, as a bar
to the present suit, or afford any proper description of them to
raise that question. The excepti6n of the defendant is, that
certain proceedings pending in the third District Court were

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

175

Hyde et al. v.Stone.

successfully pleaded in the fifth District Court of lNew Orleans,
as a cause for the removal of a suit commenced by the plaintiffs
against the' defendants in that court to the other, and that the
decision of the fifth District Court upon that plea ought to
preclude the plaintiff from maintaining this suit in the Circuit
Court of the United -States. But this court has repeatedly
decided that the jfrisdiction of the courts of the United States
over controversies between citizens of different States cannot
be impaired by the laws of the States, which prescribe the
modes of redress in their courts, or which regulate the distribution of their judicialpower. In many cases, State laws form
a rule of decision for the courts of the United States, and the
forms of proceeding in these courts have been assimilated to
those of the States, either by legislative enactment or by their
own rules. But the courts of the United States are bound to proceed to judgment, and to afford redress to suitors '6efore them,
in every case to which their jurisdiction extends. They.cannot
abdicate their authority or duty in any case in favor, of another
jurisdiction. (Suydam v. Broadnax, 14 Pet., 67; Union Bank
v. Jolly, Adm'r, 18 How., 503.)
It follows, therefore, that the decision of the fifth District
Court of lNew Orleans, transferring the suit, commenced by
the plaintiff on his bill against the de Endalts,-in that court,
and directing it to be cumulated with the proceedihgs in bankruptcy which were pending in another court of .the State, did
not disable the plaintiff fiom commencing a suit in the Circuit
Court, nor can it form a proper declinatory exception to its
jurisdic:.on.
The plaintiffs in error object, that the evidence before the
Circuit Court did not authorize the court to infer that they
had notice of the dishonor of their bill. The notary states that
he sent a notice to them, at New Orleans, on the day that the
protest was made.- In addition to this evidence, it is shown
that the bill, after its maturity, was enumerated among the
debts of the plaintiff in error, on the schedule that was returned
to the third District Court; and that they successfully pleaded
their return to the prosecution of a suit by the defendant in
error in another court. A plaintiff may prove, by admissions
of a defendant, that all the steps necessary to charge him as
an endorser or drawer of a bill of exchange have been taken.
Proof of a direct or conditional promise to pay after .abill
becomes due, or of a partial payment_ or of an offer of a composition, or of an acknowledgment of his liability to pay the
bill, has been held to be competent evidence to go to a jury,
of a regular notice of the dishonor of a bill, and to warrant a
jury in presuming that a regular notice had been given.

SUPREME COURT.
Leitensdorfer e4 al. v. Webb.

(Thornton v. Wynn, 12 Wheat., 183; Rogers v.Stevens, 2 T.
R., 713; Patterson v. Beecher, 6 J. lB. Moore, 319; Campbell
v. Webster, 2 M. G. Sc., 253; Union Bank v. Grimshaw, 15
La., 321; 3 Mort. N. S., 318.) The efilct of such evidence in
the particular case must be determined by the jury, and their
decision cannot be reviewed by an appellate court. In the
present case, the matter of fact was submitted to the Circuit
Court, and its determination on this subject cannot form the
ground of an exception here.
Judgment affirmed.

EUGENE LEITENSDORFER AND JOAB HOUGHTON,

PLAINTIFFS IN

ERROR, v. JAMES J. WEBB.
When New Mexico was conquered by the United States, it was only the allegiance
of the people that was changed; their relation to each other, and their rights
of property, remained undisturbed.
The executive authority of the United States properly established a provisional
Government, which ordained laws and instituted a judicial system; all of which
continued in force after the termination of the war, and until modified by the
direct legislation of Congress, or by the Territorial Government established by
its authority.
A suit brought in a court established by the provisional Government was properly
transferred to a court created by the act of Congress establishing the Territory
of New Mexico, the jurisdiction of which was fixed by a Territorial statute.
The laws of the provisional Government authorized an attachment against the
property of a debtor, in cases in which a party claiming to be a creditor, upon a
petition and affidavit, charged that his debtor had fraudulently disposed of his
property, so as to hinder, delay, or defraud, his creditors. By the same law, an
issue was directed to be tried upon the petition and affidavit of the plaintiff;
upon which issue, if the finding sustained the petition and affidavit, the plaintiff was authorized to proceed to the proof of his debt; if the finding was against
the charge in the petition, the attachment was to be dismissed. These proceedings with reference to the attachment are in their nature proceedings in abatement, and are not final as to the rights of the parties, and therefore cannot be
reviewed upon writ of error in this court.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, firom the Supreme
Court of the Territory of New Mexico.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Cushinq and -r.Gillet for the plaintiffs
in error, and by Mir. Polk for the defendant.
The counsel upon both sides argued the case upon its merits;
but as it went off upon a question of pleading, these arguments
are omitted.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought before this court upon a writ of error
to the Supreme Court of the, Territory of New Mexico.

