DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

581

Ex parts Ransom et al. v. City of Aew York.

Ex

PARTE IN THE MATTER OF FRANKLIN RANSOM AND "UZZIAH

WEEMAN v. THE MAYOR, ALDERMEN,
THE CITY OF NEW YORK.

AND

CbMMONALTY, OF

Where there -was an order of the Circuit Court to set aside a judgment upon payment by the defendant of the costs which had accrued up to that time, the

plaintiffs' counsel, by not insisting upon the payment of such costs, thereby impliedly waived the condition upon which the judgment was to be vacated, and
cannot proceed upon the judgment as being still in force.
Other circumstanfces-lead to the opinion that it was the understanding of both.
sides that the judgment should be vacated.
This court therefore overrule a motion for a mandamus directing the court below
to set aside the order vacating thejudgment, or for a rule to show cause why a
mandamus should not issue.

TRis was a motion made by Mr. Keller to issue to the CirJ
cuit Court of the United States for the southern district of
New York a peremptory writ of mandamus, commandingit
to carry into execution a judgment which had been entered
upon the records of the court, or to issue an alternative writ
of mandamus, commanding the judgment to be carried into
execution, or cause to be shown why it was not done.
There were numerous affidavits filed in the ease, to show the
course pursued by counsel, and arrangements between then;
but a brief statement of facts will serve to explain the'ground
upon which the motion rested.
On the 24th of December, 1856, a verdict was rendered in
the Circuit Court in favor of Ransom and Weeman, against
the corporation of New York, for twenty thousand dollars, and
one thousand four hundred and fifty-eight dollars anid twentyfive cents costs. The ground of recovery was the infringement
of a patent right. During the trial, several exceptions were
taken by the defendants to the rulings and charge of the court.
Notes were taken by reporters, and a memoraifdum stated, that
to set aside the verdict and'obtain a new trial this case was
made, with leave to convert the same into a bill of exceptions.
Things remained in this condition, without any very material
change, until the 12th of December, 1857, when the plaintiffs
entered up judgment for the amount of the verdict and costs.
On that day, the judge, in consequence of an affidavit, ordered
that, all proceedings in the suit should be stayed till the 15th
of December, and until the decision of any motion which may,
be then made, or at such other time as said court may direct,
to vacate any judgment which may be entered in this action,
and allow the defendants an opportunity to make a motion for
a new trial therein.
On the 19th of December, the .court, after argument, passed

SUPREME COURT.
Exzparte Ranom et al.v. City of NZew York.

an order to vacate the judgment on payment of the costs up to
that time, and that the defendants have leave to turn the case
into a bill of exceptions. The argument for a new trial was
directed to take place by the 9th of January.
A few days afterwards, the case was settled by the judge
who presided at the trial when the verdict was rendered.
When the argument came on for a new trial, the motion was
overruled, but leave was granted to the defendants to turn the
case thus settled into a bill of exceptions, in order that it might
come up to this court.
Thereupon the plaintiffs issued an execution upon the judgment, and placed it in the hands of the marshal for collection.
The defendants then moved that all proceedings founded on
the judgment of the 12th December be stayed, and that the
plaintiffs enter up a new judgment and file a new Judgment
record, so that the case might be brought to this court. The
plaintiffs alleged that the payment of the costs by the defendants up to the 19th of December was a condition precedent
to the vacating of the judgment; and as the costs were not
paid during the term of the court, the condition was not complied with, and the judgment was revived without any further
order of the court.
The court, on the 20th April, 1858, ordered that all proceedings founded on the judgment of 12th December be stayed;
that the plaintiffs be required to enter up a new judgment and
file a new judgment record, so that the case might, on such
new judgment, be brought up to this court.
In this state of things, the motion was made in this court
for a rule to show cause why a mandamus should not be issued,
to direct the court to set aside the order vacating the judgment.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion is made on behalf of the plaintifs for a mandamus
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district of New York, to compel that court to yacate an order in
the above cause, directing a judgment entered against the de-fendants on the 12th of December, 1857, of $21,458.21, to be
vacated. The judgment was entered upon a verdict rendered
for the plaintiffs in an action for the alleged infringement of a
patent for an "improvement in the mode of applying water to
fire engines, so as to render their operation more effective."
The judgment was entered in consequence of the stay of proceedings having expired, given to the defendants to make a
case on.' which to move for a new trial. Afterwards, on the
19th December, during the same term, an order was entered
on motion of the defendants, after hearing counsel on both

DECEM3ER TERM, 1857.

583

Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

sides, by Judge Ingersoll, then holding the court, vacating. the
judgment on the payment of costs that had previously accrued,
and alo upon t
ondition and
thatthe
the motion
case should be settled
made for a new
in a short time mentioned,

trial, with liberty to either party to turn the case into a bill of
exceptions, which right had beenmotion
reserved
at the inal. The
for a new trial heard
case was settled accordingly, the

and denied, a bill of exceptions settled and signed, agreeably
to the order of the 19th December, and filed in the office of
the clerk of said court. Since the motion for a new trial, and
the settlement of the bill of exceptions, the attorney for the
plaintiff has issued an execution on the judgment of the 12th
December, claiming it to be still in force, on the ground that
the condition had not been complied with in respect to the
payment of costs. A motion was subsequently made by the
defendants to set aside this execution and the judgment aforesaid unconditionally, *hich was granted by the court. The
present motion to this court is for a rule to show cause against
the court below, why a mandamus should not issue to vacate
this last order.
The*ground upon which the court below placed its decision
for setting aside the judgment ahd execution unconditionally,
is, that the attorney for the plaintis, by not making out his
bill of costs, procuring a taxation, and demanding them previous to the hearing of the motion for a new trial, thereby impliedly consented to waive this condition, and cannot afterwards set it up for the purpose of invalidating the order of the
19th December, vacating the judgment. We concur in this
view of the court, and we are also satisfied, from the course of
the proceedings preparatory to the motion for the new trial, the
hearing of that motion, and the turning of-the case into a bill
of exceptions with a view to a writ of error, it was the understanding of both parties that the judgment of the 12th December was to be considered as vacated, and that a new one be
entered for the plaintiffs, if a motion for a new trial was desired.
The court is of opinion, therefore, that the facts presented
upon this motion for a mandamus are not such as entitle the
plaintiffs to a rule to their cause, and it must therefore be denied.
JAMES L. AND SAMUEL L. TAYLOR, ADMINISTRATORS o' RoiERT
TAYLOR, DECEASED, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. INATiAN T. CARLRYL, WHO SURVIVED WILLIAM J. WARD.
Where a vessel had been seized under a process of foreign attachment issuing from
a State court in Pennsylvania, and a motion was pending in that court for an
order of sale, a libel filed in the District Court of the United States, for mariners

