1.98

SUPREME COURT.
Dean v. Mason et al.

pertinent to the issue, in cases and under circumstances where
they might be compelled to produce the same by the ordinary
rules of proceeding in chancery; and if a plaintiff shall thil to
comply with such order, it shall be lawful for the court, on
motion, to give the like judgment for the defendant as in cas-js
of nonsuit.
The transcript does not show that any motion was made for
an order upon the plaintiff to produce the books and papers
mentioned in the notice. It shows that a motion was made to
render a judgment of nonsuit for not complying with the
notice, and also a motion for a continuance of the case. But
the court is not authorized by the act of Congress to enter a
judgment of nonsuit upon the failure of the party to comply
with the notice. The notice is merely a preliminary proceeding, to enable the party to bring befbre the court the motion
for the order to produce; and when that motion is made, the
party called on has a right to be heard, and he is not bound to
produce the books and papers called for, until the court shall
order him to produce them, and is in no default unless he refuses or neglects to obey the order. The court were therefore
right in refusing to enter the judgment, when no order had
been moved for or granted.
And as regards the motion to continue the case, it has often
been decided by this court, that the refusal of an inferior court
to continue a case to another term cannot be assigned for
error here. Justice requires that the granting or refusal of a
continuance should be left to the sound judicial discretion of
the court where the motion is made, and where all of the circumstances connected with it, and proper to be considered,
can readily be brought before the court.
We think, therefore, that neither of the objections taken
here can be sustained, and that the judgment of the Circuit
Court must be affirmed.
WILLIAm

B.

DEAN, APPELLANT, V. INATHAN MASON ET AL.

-In suits for the infringement of a patent right, the rule of dam. - es is the amount
which the infringer actually realized in profits, not what he Ltiight have made
by reasonable diligence.
ikfter a bill is taken pro confesso in the Circuit Court, a motion to allow an answer to be filed is addressed to the discretion of the court; and from a refusal
so to do, an appeal does not lie to this court.
motion to dismiss the complainant's bill, upon the ground that he had parted
with his interest, was properly overruled, because such assignment was not made
until after the time when the computation of profits ended.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Rhode Island.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Dean v. fason et al.

Tha bill was filed by Nathan Mason, of the city of Providence, in said: district, planer of boards; Charles D. Gould, of
Albany, in the State of New York; William W. Woodworth,
of Hyde Park, in the northern district of New York, as he is
administrator of William.Woodworth, late of the city of New
York, gentleman, deceased; and as he is grantee of certain
exclusive privileges under and pursuant to an act of Congress,
as is hereinafter fully set forth; James G. Wilson, formerly of
the city of Philadelphia, and now of Hastings, in the State of
New York, gentleman; and Richard Borden, and Jefferson
Borden, both of the town of Fall River, and district of Massachusetts, against Dean, of the city of Providence.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr.Jenckes for the appellant, and by lr.
-Paynefor the appellees, upon which side there was also a brief
filed by 31r. B. 1. Curtis and Mfr. Payne.
Mr. Jenckes made the following points:
1st. The rule laid down by the court in both decretal orders,
for the computation of profits, is erroneous. It is not in accordance with the prayer of the bill, or with the rule of law in
such cases, as established by this court. The rule should have
been to take an account of the actual gains and profits of the
appellanti during the time his machines were in operation.
This point has received an express adjudication in this court.
"In a suit in equity for an injunction and account of profits
of a patented machine, the defendant is accountable only for
what profits he actually made, not for what by diligence and
skill he might have received." (Livingston et al. v. Woodworth et al., 15 How., 546.)
2d. The court below was in error in refusing leave to the
defendant to answer on the motion to set aside the decree pro
confTesso, and allow the defendant to answer.
3d. The court below should have dismissed the complainants' bill, upon the proof that they had parted with all their
interest in the subject-matter of the suit.
4th. The court below was in error in refusing leave for the
filing of a supplemental bill in favor of Baker & Smith.
They had clearly succeeded to the complainants' title, and
their proposed bill co~tains averments, verified by their oaths,
which. entitled them to the relief prayed for. The defendant
below had started his machines, and was using them to the
injury of the owners of the patent. No process of contempt
could be moved for by the complainant Mason, for he had
parted with his interest. The proposed parties complainant,

200

SUPREME COURT.
Dean v. Mason et al.

Baker & Smith, were entitled to the benefit of what had been
done, on the title which they had acquired. (Story Eq. P1., sees.
339, 349, 351; Calvert on Parties to Suits in Eq., pp. 99, 100.)
The fact that an interlocutory decree had been entered upon
Mason's title did not bar his grantees who had purchased that
title. A supplemental bill may be filed as well after as before
a decree. (Story Eq. P1., sec. 338.) In this case it was proposed
to be filed "in aid of the decree, that it might be carried fully
into execution."
If the supplemental bill had been filed, the defendant below
would have been entitled to answer both the original and supplemental bills, and his full defence to this suit would thus
have been made to appear. The hearing upon the decree
prayed for would have necessarily led to an inquiry into the
propriety of the decree sought to be enforced; and the court
below could then have followed the decision of this court in
Bloomer v. McQuewan, and dismissed the bill, as the Circuit
Court in the case of Perkins v. Fourniquet reversed its interlocutory decree after the adverse decision of this court in a similar case. (See 1 Barbour's Ch. R., 363, et seq.)
5th. These questions are all proper to be discussed on appeal. This point has received the direct adjudication of this
court.
"An appeal in equity brings up all the questions decided in
the court below to the prejudice of the appellant." (Buckingham v. McLean, 13 How., 150.)
The counsel for the appellees made the following points:
1st. With respect to the motion to strike out the decree pro
confesso, and allow the defendant to answer.
The decision of the motion to open the decree and allow an
answer to be filed, even when made at the proper term, rests
in the sound discretion of the Circuit Court, and is not subject
to re-examination here. Wylie v. Coxe, 14 How. R., 1, is directly in point. If further authorities are needful, The Marine
Insurance Company v. Hodgson, 6 Cranch, 206, where the
refusal of the Circuit Court to allow a plea to be filed, United
States v. Evans, 5 Cranch, 280, and Welch v. Mandeville, 7
Cranch, 192, where its refusal to reinstate the plaintiff, were
in question, show that this court cannot review such decisions
of the Circuit Court.
A reference to the nineteenth rule for the practice of the
Circuit Courts in equity will show how entirely the allowance
or refusal of this motion, if made in time, rests in the discretion of the Circuit Court.
2d. As to the motion to dismisg the bill.

-DECEMBER .TERM1,

1857.

Dean v. .fason et al.

Such a motion, based upon facts dehors the record, was
wholly irregular, and could not be allowed.
And it may be added that, even if regular, and the facts
upon which it was alleged to rest had been shown, they constituted no objection to a final decree.
A transfer of the title by each of the plaintiffs, pendente life,
cannot affect the rights of the defendant. (Eades v. Harris, 1
Young and Col. N. R., 280.) Certainly it could not do so in
this case; for the allegation is, that Masbn parted with his title
in April, 1852, (see page 122,) and the account of the profits
comes down only to the 29th of August, 1851. (See pages 56,
first paragraph; 101, fourth paragraph.)
3d. As to the interlocutory decree, by which the cause was
referred to the master to take an account.
We submit that the appellant cannot now take an objection
to that decree.
The nineteenth rule expressly provides, that a decree founded
upon an order taking a bill for confessed, shall be absolute at
the close of the terni at which the decree is entered. If this
defendant (who admits that he was actually cognizant of all
the proceedings, and that he intentionally allowed them to
take place) intended to object to a direction given to the master, he should have appeared and objected then, before the
proceedings were had in the master's office. At all events, he
might, ana should, when the master's report came on for confirmation, have taken his objection. Having suffered all these
opportunities to pass, he cannot now, for the first time, take.
the objection in the appellate court.
But if this court should think otherwise, we submit that
whatever error existed in the directions given to the master,.
it was cured by the proceedings which actually took place.
The appellant rendered an account to the master of hig receipts, and of the allowances he claimed. His account of his
actual receipts was not questioned, and was taken by the master as the basis of his report. The dispute arose upon the
allowances, the principal items of which were rents, fuel, labor,
carting, oil, and repairs. If the appellant had carried on the
business of planing only, these items would have been capable of being distinctly vouched, and liquidated. But in point
of fact, his planing business was carried on upon the same
premises, and by the same power and labor, which were used
for much other machinery. The expenses of the planing business were therefore not liquidated and distinct items.
They were necessarily to be arrived at only by estimates,
based on a view of the whole business, and of the proportionate
cost of this part of it. The master, therefore, went into an

SUPREME COURT.
Dean v. Mason et al.

examination of the entire cost of the several items of expense,
and of the just proportion of it which belonged to the planing
business.
It is difficult, without a perusal of both his reports, and of
the exceptions taken to them, and of the decrees of the court
.thereon, to obtain a correct view of hig action; but we submit
that such a perusal will show that no speculative rule of profits
was applied by him; that estimates were not resorted to, save
in reference to the expenses where they were absolutely necessary; and that the results of the proceedings before him were
these-that the appellant was charged only with what he admitted be actually received, and was allowed all, which, upon
a fair view of the evidence, it appeared he had actually expended in this part of his business. By reference to the items
stated by the master at the foot of page 55, and an examination of the preceding part of the report, in which he shows
how he arrived at each of those items, and also by reference to
his subsequent report, p. 98, as to some of them which he had
been required to re-examine, we submit it appears that the
balance which he reported was a balance of actual profits;
and that therefore it became wholly immaterial that he might
have found possible profits. So the appellant seems to have
considered; fbr at no time, nor in any form, did he object that
possible profits had been charged.
In McMicken v. Perin, 18 ifow., 507, where a bill was taken
pro con fesso, and at the same term a decree of reference was
made, it was objected that the master had not allowed to
the appellant the amount admitted by the bill to be due to him.
But as no exception had been taken to the master's report,
this court refused to reverse the decree. Certainly, it is not
more apparent on this record than it was on that, that the
master's report is erroneous; and if an exception was indispensable then, why not here?
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court for the district of
Rhode Island.
A bill was filed in this case by Mason et al., claiming to be
owners of a territorial right to the exclusive use of the Woodworth patent for planing boards, charging the defendant with
using three of the machines in the city of Providence, in violation of the complainant's right. The suit was commenced
the first year of the extension of that patent by Congress, and
the three machines which were sought to be enjoined were
those used during the first extended term of the patent, under a
license from its owners. A preliminary injunction was granted.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

203

Dean v. Mason et al.

At the June term, 1851, of the Circuit Court, a decree pro
confesso was entered against the defendant, and he was perpetually enjoined. The case was referred to a master, to take
an account of the profits or income derived by the defendant,
or which by reasonable diligence might have been realized by
him, from the use made of the three machines.
Exceptions were taken to the first report of the master, and
it was referred to him again under the same instructions.
Before the second report of the master, a motion was submitted to the court by the defendant to set aside the decree pro
confesso, and for leave to answer the bill, on the ground that
the Supreme Court in the case of Bloomer v. McQueen et al.,
14 Howard, 539, had held, in a case similar to this, that the
licensee's privilege continued under the extension of the patent
by Congress, the same as under prior extensions; but the court
refused the motion; consequently, the appeal does not bring
before us any question under the last extension of the patent.
At the November term, 1854, the master made his second
and final report, in which he stated the sum of $2,566.46 as
the amount of profits which the defendant, by reasonable diligence, might have derived from the use made by him of such
patented machines, and the sales of the products thereof, during
the period covered by the suit.
The decree was entered, on the report of the master, for the
estimated amount of profits which the defendant, with reasonable diligence, might have realized; not what, in fact, he did
realize. , This instruction was erroneous. The rule in such a
case is, the amount of profits received by the unlawful use of
the machines, as this, in general, is the damage done to the
owner of the patent. It takes away the motive of the infringer
of patented rights, by requiring him to pay the profits of his
labor to the owner of the patent. Generally, this is sufficient
to protect the rights of the owner; but where the wrong has
been done, under aggravated circumstances, the court has the
power, under the statute, to punish it adequately, by an increase of the damages.
The injury done is measured by the supply of planed boards
thrown upon the market, which lessens io much the demand. But, if the liability of an infringer is to be increased
by an estimate of the work he might do, with great diligence,
he will be more likely to exceed the estimate than fall below it.
This policy would increase the evil of the wrong-doer, without
benefit to any one. In Livingston et al. v. Woodworth et al., 15
How., 546, the true rule of damages in such cases is laid down.
It is contended the court erred in refusing leave to the defendant to answer, on the motion made at June term, 1853.

SUPREME COURT.
Carroll et al. v. Dorsey et al.

A motion to amend, or file an answer after default, is gen
erally addressed to the discretion of the court. Under some
circumstances, the court, for the purposes of justice, will go
great lengths in opening a default and allowing a plea to be
filed.. But this is done or refused by the court, in the exercise of
its discretion, which is not subject to the revision of this court.
In the case before us, the motion to file an answer was not
made until after the decree pro confesso had been entered, and
a reference made to a master for an account. This was more
than three years after the bill was filed. Whether the Circuit
Court refused the motion on the ground of delay, or a want of
merits in the cause assigned, does not appear; but it is sufficient to say, that on such grounds 'the decree cannot be reversed.
The motion to dismiss the complainant's bill, upon proof
that they had parted with all their interest in the subject-matter of the suit, was properly overruled. The allegation is, that
Mason parted with his title in April, 1852, and the account of
the profits is brought down only to the 29th August, 1851. The
right asserted in this action was not affected by the conveyance of Mason to Baker & Smith.
The refusal of the Circuit Court to permit a supplemental
bill to be filed by Baker & Smith, was, under the circumstances, a matter of discretion in the court; and it affords no
ground for the reversal of the decree. It is not perceived what
interest these assignees could have in a suit for an infringement of the patent, before their right accrued; and any attempt
to make them parties, with the view to benefit the defendants
in the pending suit, was unsustainable.
For the reasons assigned, the decree for damages must be
reversed, at the costs of the defendants in error, as founded on
an erroneous estimate; and the cause is remanded to the Circuit Court, with instructions to enter a decree for the amount
of the profits realized by the defendant from the wrongful use
of the patent.

C. FITZriUGH, ET AL., DEVISEES OF DANIEL
CARROLL OF DUDDINGTON, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. NICHOLAS

JANE CARROLL, MARIA

DORSEY, NOAH DORSEY, ACtHSAIH DORSEY, TRISTAM
HEIRS AT LAW OF ALFRED

IR.

S.

DORSEY,

DOWsON, DECEASED.

Although an irregularity in the citation may be cured by an appearance in court,
yet a defect in the writ of error, (such as not naming a return day for the writ,)
or an omission to file a transcript of the record at the term next succeeding the
issuing of the writ or the taking of the appeal, are fatal errors, and the case
must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

