DECEM3ER TERM, 1857.

583

Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

sides, by Judge Ingersoll, then holding the court, vacating. the
judgment on the payment of costs that had previously accrued,
and alo upon t
ondition and
thatthe
the motion
case should be settled
made for a new
in a short time mentioned,

trial, with liberty to either party to turn the case into a bill of
exceptions, which right had beenmotion
reserved
at the inal. The
for a new trial heard
case was settled accordingly, the

and denied, a bill of exceptions settled and signed, agreeably
to the order of the 19th December, and filed in the office of
the clerk of said court. Since the motion for a new trial, and
the settlement of the bill of exceptions, the attorney for the
plaintiff has issued an execution on the judgment of the 12th
December, claiming it to be still in force, on the ground that
the condition had not been complied with in respect to the
payment of costs. A motion was subsequently made by the
defendants to set aside this execution and the judgment aforesaid unconditionally, *hich was granted by the court. The
present motion to this court is for a rule to show cause against
the court below, why a mandamus should not issue to vacate
this last order.
The*ground upon which the court below placed its decision
for setting aside the judgment ahd execution unconditionally,
is, that the attorney for the plaintis, by not making out his
bill of costs, procuring a taxation, and demanding them previous to the hearing of the motion for a new trial, thereby impliedly consented to waive this condition, and cannot afterwards set it up for the purpose of invalidating the order of the
19th December, vacating the judgment. We concur in this
view of the court, and we are also satisfied, from the course of
the proceedings preparatory to the motion for the new trial, the
hearing of that motion, and the turning of-the case into a bill
of exceptions with a view to a writ of error, it was the understanding of both parties that the judgment of the 12th December was to be considered as vacated, and that a new one be
entered for the plaintiffs, if a motion for a new trial was desired.
The court is of opinion, therefore, that the facts presented
upon this motion for a mandamus are not such as entitle the
plaintiffs to a rule to their cause, and it must therefore be denied.
JAMES L. AND SAMUEL L. TAYLOR, ADMINISTRATORS o' RoiERT
TAYLOR, DECEASED, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. INATiAN T. CARLRYL, WHO SURVIVED WILLIAM J. WARD.
Where a vessel had been seized under a process of foreign attachment issuing from
a State court in Pennsylvania, and a motion was pending in that court for an
order of sale, a libel filed in the District Court of the United States, for mariners

584

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor el al. v. Carryl.

wages, and process issued under it, could not divest the authorities of the State
of their authority over the vessel; and of the two sales made, one by the sheriff
and one by the marshal, the sale by the sheriff must be considered as conveying
the legal title to the property, and the sale by the marshal as inoperative.
Where property is levied upon, it is not liable to be taken by an officer acting
under another jurisdiction.
The cases examined where conflicting claims against the same property are set up
under the laws of the United States and under State laws.
The process of foreign attachment in Pennsylvania is identical with that which
issues out of the District Court of the United States sitting in admiralty.
The admiralty jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, although exclusive
on some subjects, is concurrent upon others. The courts of common law deal
with ships or vessels as with other personal property.
In order to give jurisdiction in rem, the seizure by the marshal must have been
valid; and this was not the case when the vessel was, at the time of seizure, in
the actual and legal possession of the sheriff.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, by a writ of error issued under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act.
The facts of the case are particularly stated in the opinion
of the dourt.
It was argued by 21r. Cadwalladerand 31r. Hood for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. .Ecarts for the defendant.
The Reporter would be much pleased if he could place before his readers an extended report of the arguments of counsel
in a case of such importance and general interest to the profession as the present. But he is admonished by the size to
which the present volume has grown, that it has already reached
the customary limits of such a work; and all that he can do is
to present a brief sketch of the views of the respective counsel.
After examining the respective jurisdictions of the State and
admiralty courts, and the nature of the process and proceedings, the counsel for the plaintiffs in error deduced the following propositions:

1. That over all maritime liens for seamen's wages, the District Court of the United States has exclusive cognizance whenever invoked by the seamen, and the State courts have no jurisdiction over such liens.
2. Although a State court has no jurisdiction whatever over
a maritime lien, yet that court will afford to a seaman, if he
choose to resort to it, a remedy by personal action, against the
owner or master of the -vessel, on the contract for wages, or
perhaps by permitting him to intervene in a personal action,
already pending; but the cognizance-of the State court does
not attach, unless specially invoked by the seaman.
8. That the existence of one or more remedies for a seaman
to recover his wages in a State court, does not oust the cogni-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

585

Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

zance of the admiralty court over his lien against the vessel;
the seaman may pursue either of these remedies only, or both
together.
4. That the pendency of proceedings in foreign attachment
in a State court against the vessel, at the suit of a general
creditor of the owner, and the seizure and sale of the vessel
by the sheriff under such proceedings, do not oust the admiralty jurisdiction of the District Court of the United States
over liens for the wages of the seamen, if invoked by them,
nor prevent the admiralty court from enforcing such liens
against the vessel in specie, by proceedings in ren.
5. That the sale of a vessel, under a writ'or order of a common-law court, does not, under the general maritime law of
the United States, divest the lien of a seaman for his wages,
so as to prevent its enforcement against the vessel in specie,
by the District Court of the United States, under proceedings
in rem in the admiralty.
6. That a sale of a vessel under a writ or order of the District Court of the United States, proceeding in rem against a
vessel in the admiralty, not appealed from nor reversed, passes
to the purchaser a title to the vessel discharged of all liens and
encufnibrances whatever.
T. That where a vessel subject to maritime liens for seamen's
wages is seized by the sheriff under a writ from a State court,
an d subsequently a proceeding in rem is commenced in the admiralty to enforce these liens, it would be an usurpation of
admiralty jurisdiction by the State court, if, after being informed
of the existence of said liens and proceedings, the State court
ordered a sale of the vessel, as perishable and -chargeable, on
the ground, inter alia, of the accruing daily expenses of the said
mariners' wages.
. The proceeding under which the sale was ordered by the
State court was based not upon the simple allegation of perishableness, but upon an allegation of perishableness by reason
of ehargeableness; in other words, the sale was prayed and ordered because the subject was a -chargeable one. That which
was alleged to render her thus chargeable was mainly an accumulating liability for the very seamen's wages in question.
Without this liability, non constat, that any sale would have
been ordered. In correcter language, it is legally to be assumed, that without it there would have been no sufficient
chargeableness. For these wages, the lien had already attached
to the vessel by the proceeding in admiralty. Thus, in order
to render'the vessel saleable as chargeable, the subject of the
lien, which could constitutionally be enforced directly in the
admiralty alone, was by a usurpation of jurisdiction imported

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

into the proceeding in the State court, as the foundation of the
very proceeding in question.
This appears from the order of sale of the State court made
not under one alone, but under both of the foreign attachments,
and from the petition referred to in the order of sale of Robert
Bell, one of the plaintiffs in attachment, alleging the vessel in
question. to be "of a chargeable and perishable nature, from
the daily expense of wharfage, custody fees, mariners' wages,
and liable to deterioration in her hull, apparel, and furniture,
from exposure to ice, wind, sun, and weather."
8. The legal custody of the vessel claimed for the admiralty
in this case will not necessarily lead to conflict between the
United States and State courts and their respective officers;
but, on the contrary, will tend to prevent such conflicts, by
maintaining each in the legitimate exercise of its jurisdiction
and powers.
According to the English admiralty law, as recognised by Sir
John Jarvis, Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, when a vessel subject to maritime liens for seamen's wa es is seized by
the sheriff, under a writ of foreign attachment from a State
court, and subsequently a proceeding in rem is commenced in
the admiralty, to enforce the seamen's liens, the latter proceeding relates back to the time when the liens were created,
and in contemplation of law the legal custody of the vessel is
deemed to have been in the admiralty from the period when
the lien first attached, (Harmer v. Bell, 22 Eng. L. and Eq.
R., 72,) so far at least as may be necessary to protect these
liens. This legal custody of the admiralty is not incompatible
with, and does not necessarily interfere with, the possession of
the sherif, nor the proceedings in the State court. In such a
case, the sheriff may hold the vessel until bail be entered for
the owner, or until the owner's interest has been sold to satisfy
plaintiff's claim. But the proceedings in rem in the admiralty,
being known to the purchaser at the sheriff's sale, he will take
the vessel oum onere-and, on paying off the maritime liens,
will acquire a perfect title. On the other hand, if the admiralty sell the vessel whilst the proceedings in the State court are
pending, and the sheriff still in possession, the title of the
purchaser is good against all the world; but the surplus that
may remain out of the proceeds of the admiralty sale, after
payment of the liens against the vessel, would, on application
to that court, be Ordered to be paid to the sheriff, pr into the
State court.
In the case of the Royal Saxon, the purchasers at thesheriff's
sale mi-lYt have obviated the necessity of-a sale by the admiralty by satisfying the maritime liens. They could lfVe.dis-

DECGMBER TERM, 1857.

5.87

Tayfor e al. v. Carl.

charged the vessel from them by paying the holders, or, by
leave of the admiralty court, they could have paid into its
registry enough to satisfy them, being entitled to receive back
any surplus. In this way they couia have acquired a perfect
title; but they pursued neither course, nor did they bring the
matter in any form before the District Court of the United
States. The maritime liens therefore continued attached to
the vessel after the sheriff's sale, and until sold by the mar-'
shal, when Mr. Taylor became *thepurchaser.
If the doctrines laid down in this case by the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania, and on which the judgment of that court can
alone be sustained, are to be adopted as the maritime ahd admiralty law of the -United States, the privileged lien, heretofore supposed to belong to mariners, is in effect taken away.:
It will be in the power of a master or owner of. a-vessel, in
every case, to prevent seamen from aviiling themselves of their
lien.
This may be effected by proeuring a constable td seize the
vessel, and hold her in custody until she is about to sail, and
then release her.. It only requires a At fa. or attachment to
issue on a judgment confessed before a justice of the peace
for a small amount, to a real or pretended creditor; because,
according to the doctrine of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, there is no peculiar potency in admiralty process in rem,
against ships-"in substance, the proceeding by a justice of
the peace against a stray cow is exactly equivalent." (Record,
72; Taylor v. Carryl, 12 Harris, 261.) By the seizure of the
ship, therefore, whether by sheriff or constab~e, the whole custody of her is in -the State tribunal, (Record, 61, 77,) and any
action or decree afterwards by the admiralty, in order to enforce the mariners' lien against the ship, wouId be in-relation
to a subject over which it had no control, and would consequently be void." (Record, .61; Taylor v. Carryl, 12 HErris
269.4-_
R~ep:,
Judge
Wells in his .opinion delivered in
the case of the
Golden Gate, '(Newberry's Adm. Rep.; 296, 308; 5 Am. Law
out other
I58.,) ofpoints
Reg.,
of propeace, &c., the forceallowing
of theinconvenience'from
justices
prodcess
to the.155,
ceedings in temn. "If," days he, "'there is an average of fifty

of States
the peace
tccounties to each State, and twentyin justices
thirto
United
thenhaveand the
on~t, w.houl~d
each
to
maritime'jurisdiction,
courts f admiialty
one thousand
Reg.,
fiaw
say nothing f the couts of recoro, &c..'"(5
a er g
e 8an Am.
The~ ~ CutOf
158159.)
~t esrepeyvna hve c ide
f thht
he lw th S taeman
i ay c
enohrco
toi

588

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

enforce his maritime lien for wages against the proceeds of a
vessel sold by the sheriff. Although this be a doctrine unknown to the old common law, yet there would be no reason
to complain of it, if that court had not gone farther, and decided that the seaman's only remedy in such a case was inthe
State court, and that he had no longer a right to enforde his
lien in the admiralty. The State court undertook to define
the limits of the jurisdiction of the admiralty courts; and if it
has erred in this, it is the right and duty of the Supreme Court
of the United States to correct the error, and whilst asserting
the legitimate jurisdiction of the admiralty, to administer the
maritime law as it has been recognised and established by the
Constitution and laws of the United States. It is an important
function of this court to defend the lawful jurisdiction of the
admiralty, and the just efficacy of its process against judicial
as well as -legislative encroachment, among other reasons, because on these mainly depend the rights of seamen and others
having maritime liens.
In this case, the Supreme Court of the United States is not
called on to alter in any respect the municipal law of Pennsylvania, but simply to declare that the additional remedy allowed
to seamen by that law does not oust the admiralty of its exclusive jurisdiction, if the seamen prefer a recourse to it, rather
than to the remedies provided by the State law.
A reversal, therefore, of the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania will involve no victory of Federal over State
authority and power. It will concede to the admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction of the Federal courts nothing but what
the stanchest friend of State rights and the -most jealous adversary of Federal encroachment may safely concede, because
imperatively required for the safety and protection of a class
of men whose rights are specially protected by the commercial
codes, of every civilized nation, and by none more carefully
than by that of the United States; rights, in the maintenance
of which the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and her people
are as much interested as the people of any of the other States,
for the sake of those of her citizens (and they are very numerous) who have devoted themselves to the sea.
The third point of the counsel for the defendant was the
followin L :
Third Point. The judgment below on the merits of the controversy determined by it isfree from error.
I. The plaintiff below, by his purchase at the sheriff's sale,
acquired a good title to the barque "Royal Saxon."
1. By the process of foreign attachment, and the possession

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

589

Taylor el al. v. Carryl.

of the sheriff under that process, the barque was in the custody
of the law, to abide the result of the suit in which process issued. (Act Penn., June 13, 1856, sees. 48, 50; same, March
20, 1845, sec. 2; Morgan v. Whatmaugh, 5 What., 125; Serg.
For. Att., 1, 23.)
2. Its sale, pending the suit, as perishable property, was
regular, and by authority of a competent court having jurisdiction.
3. The judicial sale of property as berishable is, in the natare of the procedure, and from the same policy and necessity
which occasion the sale, a conversion or transmutation of the
thing itself, overriding every question of title and lien.
(1.) The right and power of such sale are not supported upon
any notion or determination of title, but wholly upon the condition of the thing sold.
(2.) The motive and effect of the sale are for the benefit of
the real title and of every valid lien, to save from perishing to
the owner and the lienor the-subject of his property or li6n.
(3.) To say the court has this right to sell the thing in its
custody, and exercises this right, and yet the buyer-at such
sale does not take the thing sold, but only the right, title, or
interest, of some particular person or persons, is insensible,
and subversive of the whole doctrine of sales by necessity.
(Foster v. Cockburn, Sir Thomas Parker's Exch. R., 70; jennings v. Carson, 4 Cranch, .26, 27; Grant v. McLaughlin, 4
Johns. R., 34; The Tilton, 5 Mas., 481, 482.)
(4.) The remedy of any party whose property has been, without right as against him, brought into this peril of litigation
which has necessitated, and so justified, its valid sale, is by
action against the suitor or the officer who has wrongfully subjected it tc this conversion, or by claiming upon the proceeds
of the sale, at his election.
I. The defendant below, by his purchase at the marshal's
sale, acquired no title to the barque.
1. When the attachment and monition issued in the admiralty suit, the barque was in the custody of the sheriff of the
county of Philadelphia, and so continued until after the order
I
for its sale as perishable.
The marshal, therefore, never had custody, nor the District
Court possession, of the barque, to support any jurisdiction to
sell as perishable. (The Robert Fulton, 1 Paine 0. 0. R., 625,
626; Hagan v. Lucas, 10 Peters, 403; Jennings v. Carson, 4
Cranch, 26, 27.)
2. The effect of a sale in admiralty, pending a suit, of property as perishable, is not at all strengthened or qualified by the
nature of the claim or lien prosecuted in the suit. -

590

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. r. Carryl.

Whether the cause of action be of one degree of privilege
or priority or another, the efficacy of the writ to the marshal is
the same, the custody of the court is the same, and the grounds
and effect of the special sale of the property in custody are the
same.
So, too, whether the cause of action fail to be supported in
the final decree is immaterial; the jurisdiction to sell, and the
title conveyed, depending on the court's possession of the suit,
and of the perishable property, and not at all on the event of
the suit. (Harmer v. Bell, the case of the Bold Buccleugh in
Privy
Council, 22 Eno-. L. and E.)
. 3. The
title of the defendant below, then, derives no special
validity from the peculiar privilege among admiralty liens accorded to wages.
The whole question is, between the two sales by the two
courts, as to which passed the title; if the cause of action in
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania had been for seamen's
wages, and the cause of action in the District Court had been
on a charter party, or bill of lading, the question of the effect
of the two sales would rest on the same considerations as under
the actual facts in the case.
III. The sale by the sheriff gave to the purchaser a title
discharged of all liens, which thereafter attached only to the
fund produced by the sale. This effect fbllows every judicial
sale of the res itself, (made by a court having jurisdiction,) and
the claim of seamen's wages has no exemption from this consequence.
1. The nature of the lien of seamen's wages subjects it to
this consequence.
It is neither ajus in re nor a jus ad rem; it gives no right of
possession, and is not displaced by change of possession-it is
a right of action to be enforced by judicial procedure, and with
(among others) the special remedy of being satisfied, by means
of such procedure, out of the ship. (The iNancy, 1 Paine 0.
C. R., 184; The Brig Nestor, 1 Sumn., 80; Ex parte Foster, 2
Story, 144; Harmer v. Bell, 22 Eng. L. and E. R., 72.)
Whatever prevents the judicial process (from whose vigor
alone the seamen's right of action is converted into a right of
possession or dominion over the ship) from reaching the ship,
ostpones or defeats, as the case may be, the enforcement of
is right of action against the ship.
If the ship be locally without the jurisdiction of the process,
this postpones or defeats the remedy.
If the ship, though locally within the jurisdiction of the process, -be withdrawn from its operation by a previous subjection
to the process of another jurisdiction, this postpones or defeats

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Taylor et aZ. v. Carryl.

the remedy. (The Robert Fulton, ut supra; Hagan v. Lucas,
same.)
A conversion of the ship into proceeds by a lawful exercise
of dominion over it, by paramount authority, or through judicial sentence, defeats the remedy against the ship, which, as it
were, no longer exists, in specie, to meet the remedy.
The familiar rule, that seamen's -claims attach for their satisfaction to the proceeds of such sales, proves that the ship is
discharged from their claims; otherwise the seamen would take
the purchase-money, produced by other interests than theirs,
to discharge claims still resting on the ship, and not included
in the purchase-money. (Presb. Corp. v. Wallace, 3 Rawle,
150; Sheppard v. Taylor, 5 Pet., 675; Brown v. Full, 2 Sumu.,
441; Trump v. Ship Thomas, Bee's R., 86; The St. Jago de
Cuba, 9 Wheat., 414, 419.)
Mr. Justice CAMiPBELL-dehvered the opinion of the court.
This. cause comes before this court by writ of error to the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, under the twenty-fifth section
of the judiciary act of the 24th September, 1789.
The, defendants (Ward & Co.) instituted an action of replevin in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, for the barque
oyal Saxon.
Upon the trial'of the cause at nisiprius,it appeared that the
barque arrived at the'port of Philadelphia in October, 1847, on
a trading voyage, and was the property of Robert McIntyre,
of Londonderry, in Ireland. In November, 1847, she was seized
by the sheriff of Philadelphia county, under a writ of foreign
attachment that was issued against her owner and another, at
the suit of McGee & Co., of few Orleans, from the Supreme
Court; and at the same time her captain was summoned as'a
garnishee. On the 15th January, 1848, those, creditors commenced proceedings in the Supreme Court to obtain an order
of sale, because'the barquewas of a chargeable and perishable
nature, suffering deterioration from exposure to the weather,
and incurring expenses of wharfage, custbdy fees, &c., &c. This
application was opposed by the captain of the barque, but was
allowed by the court on the 29th of January, 1848. The'ves.
sel was duly sold by the sheriff under this order, the 9th February, 1848, to the plaintiffs in the replevin, Ward & Co.
On the 21st January, 1848, while the writs of attachment
wre operative, and a motion for the sale of the' barque was
pending in the Supreme Court, the seamen on board the barque
filed their libel in the. District Court of the United States for
thpe eatern district of Pennsylvania, sitting in admiralty, for
the balances of wages due to them, respectively, up to that date,

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. (arryl.

and prayed for the process of attachment against the barque,
according to the practice of the court. This was issued, and,
on ihe same day, the marshal returned on the writ, "Attached
the barque Royal Saxon, and found a sheriff's officer on board,
claiming to have her in custody." The captain appeared to this
libel, and filed an answer admitting the demands of the seamen.
On the 25th January he exhibited a petition to the District
Court, in which he represented the pendency of the suits in attachment and in admiralty; that the barque was liable to him
for advances; that she was subject to heavy charges, and could
not be employed to carry freight; and therefore he, with the
approbation of the British consul, which accompanied the petition, solicited an order of sale for the benefit of all persons interested. This order was granted by the District Court, after
due inquiry, on the 9th February, 1848, and was executed the
15th of February, 1848, by the marshal of the court, at which
time the defendant in the replevin was the purchaser, who took
the possession of the vessel, and held her until retaken in this
replevin suit of Ward & Co. Upon the trial of the replevin
cause at nisi przus, the defendant solicited instructions-to the
jury, which were refused by the court, and the court instructed
the jury unfavorably to his title. From the instructions asked,
and the charge delivered, a selection is made, to exhibit the
questions decided. The court was requested to charge8. "That when the lien of a mariner for wages is sought to
be enforced in the admiralty by libel, and the marshal has attached the vessel under such proceedings, the vessel so attached
is in the exclusive custody of the admiralty until the claims of
the libellants have been adjudicated, or the vessel relieved by
order of the court, on stipulation or otherwise; and such exclusive custody exists, notwithstanding a previous foreign
attachment from a court of law served on the vessel by the
sheriff."

5. "That a foreign attachment is not properly a proceeding
in rem; but an attachment from the admiralty on a libel for
mariners' wages is in rem; and the legal possession acquired
by the sheriff, on service of the writ of foreign attachment, is
ended, superseded, or suspended, by the service of such attachment from the admiralty."
8. "That when, on the 21st of January, 1848, the Royal
Saxon was attached under the process issued on the libel for
mariners wages, she came by virtue of that attachment into
the exclusive custody of the court of admiralty; and such exclusive legal custody continued from the 21st January, 1848,
until the sale by the marshal, by order of that court; on the
15th February, 1848."

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

"593

Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

10. "That the legal pocession of the vessel being exclusively
in the admiralty court from the 21st January, 1848, till the
sale made, by order of that court, on the 15th February, 1848,
the sale by the' sheriff on the 9th February, 1848, gave no title
to the purchaser as against the sale by the marshal."
The court refused so to instruct the jury, but charged them:
"That the court of admiralty could not proceed against the
vessel while she remained in the custody of an independent
and competent jurisdiction; that the presence of the marshal
on the ship did ,not prove his custody, for the sheriff s officer
was there before him; that the marshal did not dispossess the
sheriff, but prudently retired himself, and informed the edurt
in his return that the vessel was in the custody of the sheriff;
that if the sheriff first took possession of the vessel, and maintained it until she was sold to the plaintiffs, they had the better
title; and that the fact of the eontinuing possession of the
sheriffwas for the jury." A verdict was returned, in favor of
the plaintifs, upon which a judgment was rendered in the Suof the
favor,
preme
in their
juryconfirming
at nisi prius.the opinion
judge asCourt
expressed
to the
The judgment of the District Court allowing the order of
sale proceeded upon the grounds: "That the suits in attachment in the Supreme Court applied to alleged interests in the
vessel, not to th6 vessel itself... The attachment creditor, if he
succeeds in.his suit, obtains recourse againstthe thing attached
just so far as his defendant 'had interest in it, and no farther.
The .rights of third parties remain in both cases unaffected.
The bottomrT creditor, residing,'it may be, in a foreign country,
is no party to either proceeding, and. loses none of his rights.
His contract was with the thing, not the owner, and it is therefore not embarrassed, and cannot be, by any question of contest of ownership. So, too, seamen, whoever owns the vessel,
or how often soever the, ownership may be. changed, wherever
she may go, whatever may befall her-so long as a plank remains of her hull, the seamen are her first creditors, and she
is privileged to them for their wages," &c., &c. ,
Again: "What interest in the ship," asks-the District
Court, "does the sheriff propose to dell? Not a title'to it,
but the defendant's property in it, whatever it may be. Not
so in the admiralty. Here the subject-matterof the controversy is the res itself. It passes into the custody of thA court.
All the world are parties, and the decree concludes all outstanding interests, because all are represented. Here they are
marshalled in theii order of"title and privilege. There is no
difficulty in allowing an arrest by the admiralty, notwithstanding the vessel or some interest i it. has passed into the.
vol. xx,
88

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

custody of the sheriff. He retains all his rights, notwithstanding the marshal's intervention. The proceedings against the
vessel, the thing, the subject of the property or title, may still
go on in the admiralty. The sheriff's vendee of the ship may
intervene there, as the defendant might have done in this court;
he may make defence to the proceeding there as the successor
to the defendant's rights, and may be substituted ultimately
before the judge of the admiralty as a claimant of the surplus
fund."
This cause has been regarded in this court as one of importance. It has been argued three different times at the bar, and
has received the careful consideration of the court. The deliberations of the court have resulted in the conviction that
the question presented in the cause is not a new question, and
is not determinable upon any novel principle, but that the
question has come before this and other courts in other forms,
and has received its solution by the application of a comprehensive principle which has recommended itself to the courts
as just and equal, and as opposing no hindrance to an efficient
administration of the judicial power.
In Payne v. Drew, 4 East., 528, Lord. Ellenborough said:
"It appears to me, therefore, not to be contradictory to any
cases nor any principles of law, and to be mainly conducive
to public convenience and to the prevention of fraud and vexatious delay in these matters, to hold that where there are
several authorities equally competent to bind the goods of a
party, when executed by the proper officer, that they shall be
considered as effectually and for all purposes bound by the
authority which first actually attaches upon them in point of
execution, and under which an execution shall have been first
executed."
This rule is the fruit of experience and wisdom, and regulates
the relations and maintains harmony among the various superior courts of law and of chancery in Great Britain.
Those courts take efficient measures to maintain their control over property within their custody, and support their officers in defending it with firmness and constancy. The court
of chancery does not allow the possession of its -receiver, sequestrator, committee, or custodee, to be disturbed by a party,
whether dlaiming by title paramount or under the right which
they were appointed to protect, (Evelyn v. Lewis, 8 Rare, 472;
5 Madd., 406,) as their possession is the possession of the court.
(Noe v. Gibson, 7 Paige, 713.) Nor will the court allow an interfering claimant to question the validity of the orders under
--hich possession was obtained, on the ground that they were
improvidently made. (Russell v. East AnglienR. Co., 3 McW.

DECEMBER TERM,, 1857.

• 595

Taylor et al. v. CarryZ.

and Gord., 104.) The courts of law uphold the right of their
officers to maintain actions to recover property withdrawn
from them, and for disturbance to them in the exercise of the
duties of their office.
But it is in this court that the principle stated in Payne ;.
Drew has received its clearest illustration, "andbeen employed
most frequently, and with most benignant results. It forms a
recognised portion of the duty of this court to give preference
to such principles and methods of procedure as shall .serve to
conciliate the distinct and independent tribunals.of the States
and of the Union, so that they may co-operate as -harmonious
members of a judicial system coextensive with the United
States, and submitting to the paramount authority of the same
Constitution, laws, and.Federal obligations. The decisions of
this court that disclose such an aim, and that embody the
principles and modes of administration to accomplish it, have
gone -from the court with authority, and have returned to it,
bringing -the vigor and strength that is always imparted to
magistrates, of whatever class, by the approbation and confidence of those submitted to their government., The decision
in the case of Hagan v. Lucas, 10 Pet., 400, is of this class. It
was a case in which a sheriff had seized property under valid'
process from a State court, and had delivered it on bail to abide
a trial of the right to the prbpdrty, and its liability to the execution. The same property was then seized by the marshal;
under process against the same defendant. This court, in their
opinion, say: "CWhere a sleriff has made a levy, and afterwards receives executions against the same defendant, he may
appropriate any surplus that shall remain, after satisfying the
first levy by the order of the court. But the same rule does
not govern when the executions, as in the present case, issue
from different jurisdictions. The marshal may apply moneys
,collected under different executions, the same as the sheriff.
But thiseannot be done as between the marshal and the sheriff,a most -injurious conflict of jurisdiction would ,belikelyftn
to arise between the Federal and the State courts -f e final
process of the one could be levied6n _pr r-which had been
taken on process of the other. The marshal or the sheriff, as
the case may be, by a levy acquires a special property in the
goods, and may maintain an action for them. But ifthe sam
goods may be taken in execution by the marshal and the sheriff, does
this s'pecialproperty vest'in the one or the other, or both of them? N{o
SUCH1 PASE CAN EXIST; property once levied on remains in the
custody of- the law, and is not liable to be taken by another
execution in the hands of a different officer, and especially by.
an officer acting under another jurisdiction." The prindiple

596

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et dl. v. Carryl.

-

contained in this extract from the opinion of the court was
applied by this court to determine the conflicting pretensions
of creditors by judgment in a court of the United States, and
an administrator who has declared the insolvency of his estate,
and was administering it under the orders of a probate court;
(8 How. S. C. R., 107,) in a.controversy between receivers and
trustees holding under a court of chancery, and judgment
creditors seeking their remedy by means of executory process,
(14 1H6w. S. C. k., 52, 368,) and to settle the priorities of executibn creditors of distinct courts. (Pulliam v. Osborn, 17
How., 471.)
In a case not dissimilar in principle from the present, the
principle was applied in fav6r of the Executive department,
having property in custody ivhose possession was disturbed by
a State officer under judicial process. An attachment from a
State court was levied upon merchandise impQrted, but not
enteredI.t the custom-house, and the validity of the levy was
the question involved. (Harmar v. Dennie, 3 Pet., 292.) The
court say: "From their arrival in port, the goods are, in legal
contemplation, in. the custody of the United States. An attachment of such goods presupposesa rigbht to take the possession and custody, and to -make such possession and custody
exclusive. If the officer attaches upon mesne process, he has
the right to hold the pbssession to atsver the exigency of the
writ. , The act of Congress recognises no such authority, and
asdmits of no such exerclse 'of right." To the ar'gument, that
the United States might hold for the purpose of collecting duties; and th sheriff might attach the residuary right subject
to the prior claim,.the court say:.. "The United States have
nowhere recognis~d or provided for a concurrent possession.or
custody by. any such officer."
A recognition of the same principle is to be found in Peck
v. Jenness, 7 How. S.C. R., 612: An act of: Cohgres had
conferred.on the courts of the United States pxclusive jurisdiction "of all. suits" and proceedings of bankruptcy," and had
provided that the act should not be held to impair or destroy
existing rights, liens, iaortgaoes, &c.; &o., 'on- the estate of the
bankrupt. •A District Court -ofthe United-States decided tha.
'its jurisdiction extended to, administer the en'tire bstate of the
bankrupt court, and that the liens on-the property, whether
judicial or consensual, mUst be 'asserted exclusively in that
court, and that all 6ther jurisdielions bad been. superseded.
This court denied tle pretension :of the. District Court, and
affirmed, ,,
That'*hefn acourt-has jurisdiction, it has a right to
decide 'eery question -which 6ccurs in! the cause r and when
the juriidiction 6f the- court and tlhe right of the plaintiff to

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

597

Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

prosecute his suit has once attached, that right cannot be arrested or taken away by proceedings in another'suit. Thes6
rules have their foundation not merely in comity, but in necessity; for if one may enjoin, the other may retort, by injunction, and thus the parties be without remedy, being liable toa process for contempt in one, if they dare to proceed .in the
other. Neither can one take property from the custody of the
other by replevin, or any other process, for this would produ6e
a conflict extremely embarrassing to the. administration of
justice."
The legislation of Congress, in organizing the judicial powers 6f theUnited States, exhibits much circumspection in avoiding occasions for placing. the tribunals of the States and of the
Union in any collision. A limited number of cases exist, in
which a party sued in a State ccurt may obtain the transfer of
the cause to a court of the United States, by an application to
the State court in which it was commenced; and this court, in
a few well-defined cases, by the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act of 1789, may revise the judgment of the tribunal of last
resort of a State. In all other respects the tribunals of the
State and the Union are independent of one another. The.
'

courts of the United States cannot issue' an injunction to stay

proceedings.in any court of a State," and the judiciary act pro-'
vides that "writs _of habeas corpus shall in no 'case extend to
prisoners in jail, unless where they are in custody under or by
color of authority of the United States, or are committed ifor
trial before some. court of the same, or are necessary to be.
brought into court to testify." "Thus, as the law now stands,"
say this court, 'an individual who may be indicted in a Circuit Court for treason against the United States is beyond the
power of the Federal courts and judges, if he be in custody
under the authority of a State." (Ex parte Dorr, 3 How. S.
C. R., 103.) And signal instances are reported in verification
of the above, statement. (Ex parte Robinson, 6 McLean R.,
T.is inquiry will not be considered as irrelevant to the question under the consideration of the court. The process of foreign attachment has been for a long time in use in Pennsylvania, and its operation is well defined, by statute as well as
judicial precedents. The duties of the sheriff, under that process, are identical with those of a marshal, holding an attach,jment from the District Court sitting in admiralty. "The
goods and chattels of, the defendant, in, the attachment, '(such
is the 'language of the statute,) in the hands of the garnishee,
shall, after such service, be bound by such writ, aud be in the
officer's power; and if susceptible of seizure or manual occu-

598

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

pation, the officers shall proceed to secure the same, to answer
and abide the judgment of the court in that case, unless the
person having the same shall give security. (Purdin's Dig., 50,
sec. 50; 5 Whar., 125; Carryl v. Taylor, 12.)
it follows, by an inevitable induction from the cases of laimar v. Dennie, 3 Pet., 299; iHagan v. Lucas, 10 Pet., 400; and
Peck v. Jenness, 7 How., 612, that the custody acquired through
the "seizure or manual occupation" of the Royal Saxon, under
the attachment by the sheriff of Philadelphia county, could not
legally be obstructed by the marshal, nor could he properly
assert a concurrent right with him in the property, uni ,ss the
court of admiralty holds some peculiar relation to the State
courts or to the property attached, which authorized the action
or right of its marshal. The relation of the District Courts, as
courts of admiralty, is defined with exactness and precision by
Justice Story in his Commentaries on the Constitution. He
Rays: "Mr. Chancellor Kent and Mr. Rawle seem to think that
the admiralty jurisdiction given by the Constitution is, in all
cases, necessarily exclusive. But it is believed that this opinion is founded on mistake. It is exclusive in all matters of
prize, for the'reason that, at the common law, this jurisdiction
is vested in the courts of admiralty, to the exclusion of the
courts of common law. But in cases where the jurisdiction of
common law and admiralty are concurrent, (as in cases of possessory suits, mariners' wages, and marine torts,) there is nothing in the Constitution necessarily leading to the conclusion
that the jurisdiction was intended to be exclusive; and there
is no better ground, upon general reasoning, to contend for it.
The reasonable interpretation," continues the commentator,
"would seem to be, that it conferred on the national judiciary
the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction exactly according to
the nature and extent and modifications in which 'it existed in
the jurisprudence of the common law. When the jurisdiction
was exclusive-, it remained so; when it was concurrent, it remained so. Hence the States could have no right to create
courts of admiralty as such, or to confer on their own pouTts
the cognizance of such cases as were exclusively cognizable in
admiralty courts. But the States might well retain and exercise the jurisdiction in cases of which the cognizance was previously concurrent in the courts of common law. This latter
class of cases can be no more deemed cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction than cases of common-law jurisdiction."
(3Story's Com., sec. 1666, note.)
In conformity with this opinion, the habit of courts of common law has been to deal with ships as personal property, subject in the main, like other personal property, to municipal

DECEMBER TERM, 185T.
Taylor et al. v.

599

Oarryl

authority, and liable to their remedial. process of attachment
and execution, and the titles to them, or contracts and torts
relating to them, are cognizable in those courts.
It has not been made a question here that the Royal Saxon
could not be attached, or that the title could not be decided in
replevin. But the District Court seems to have considered
that a ship was a juridical person, having a status in the courts
of admiralty, and that the admiralty was entitled to precedence
whenever any question arose which authorized a judicial tribunal to call this legal entity before it. The District Court, in
describing the source of its authority, says of the contract of
bottomry, that "it is made with the thing, and not the owner,"
and that the contract of the mariners is similar; -that the RES
"represents" in that court all persons having a right and privilege, while the rights of the owner are treated there as something incorporeal, separable from the res, and which might be
seized by the sheriff, even though the res might be in the ad
miralty. This representation is not true in matter of fact, nor
in point of law. Contracts with mariners for service, and other
contracts of that kind, are made on behalf of owners who incur
a personal responsibility; and if lenders on bottomry depend
upon the vessel for payment, it is because the liability of the
owner is waived in the contract itself. "In all causes of action,"
says the judge of the admiralty of Great Britain, "which may
arise during the ownership of the persons whose ship is pro
ceeded against, I apprehend that no suit could ever be maintained against a ship, where ,the owners were not themselves
,personally liable, or where the liability had not been given up."
(The Druid, 1 Win. Rob, 399.) And the opinion of this court
in The Schooner Freeman v. Buckingham, 18 Tow., 183, was
to the same effect.
In courts of 'ommon law, the forms of action limit- a suit
to the p6rsons whose legal right has been affected, and those
who have impaired or injured it. In chancery, the'number of
the parties is enlarged, and all are included who are interested
in the object of the suit; and 'as the parties are generally
known, they are made parties by name and by special notice.
In admiralty, all parties vho have an interest in the subject
of the suit--the res-may appear, and each may propound independentlyhis interest. The seizure of the REs, and the publication of the monition or -invitation to appear, is regarded
its equivalent to the particular service of process in the courts
of law and equity. But the REs is in no other sense than this
the ketresentative of the whole world. But it follows, that to
give jurisdiction in rem, there 'must have, been a valid seizure
and an actual control of the ship by the marshal of the court;

600

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor el al. v. Carryl.

and the authorities are to this effect. (Jennings v. Curson, 4
Cr., 2; 2 Ware's Adm. R;, 862.) In the present instance, the
service was typical. There was no exclusive custody or control of the barque by the marshal, from the 21st of January,
1848, to the day of the sale; and when the order of sale was
made in the District Court, she was in the actual and legal possession of the sheriff.
The case of the Oliver Jordan, 2 Curtis's R., 414, was one of
a vessel attached by a sheriff in Maine, under process from the
Supreme Court. She was subsequently libelled in the District
Court of the United States, upon the claim of a material man.
The District Court sustained the jurisdiction of the court. But
on appeal the exception to the jurisdiction was allowed, and
the decree of the District Court reversed. Mr. Justice Curtis
observed: "This vessel being in the custody of the law of the
State, the marshal could not lawfully execute the warrant of
arrest." In the case of the ship Robert Fulton, 1 Paine C. C.
R., 620, the late Mr. Justice Thompson held that the warrant
from the admiralty could not be lawfully executed under sim.ilar circumstances, and that the District Court could not proceed in rem. The same subject has been considered by State
courts, and their authority is to the- same effect. (iKeating v.
Spink, 3 Ohio R., N. S., 105; Carryl v. Taylor, 12 Harris, 264.)
Our conclusion is, that the District Court of Pennsylvania
had no jurisdiction over the Royal Saxon when its order of sale
was made, and that the sale by the marshal was inoperative.
The view we have taken of this cause renders it unnecessary for us to coiisider any question relative to the respective
liens of the attaching creditors, and of the seamen for wages,
or as to the effect of the sale of the property as chargeable or
as perishable upon them.
Our opinion is, that there is no error in so much of the record of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania as is .brought before
this court by the writ of error, and the judgment of the court
is consequently affirmed.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice WAYNE, Mr. Justice GRIER, and Mr. Justice CLIFFORD,-dissented.
Mr. Justice WAYNE, Mr. Justice GRIER, and Mr: Justice
CLIFFORD, concurred with Mr. Chief Justice TANEY in the
following dissenting opinion:
Mr. Chief Justice TIANEY dissenting:
I dissent from the opinion of the court. The prlnciple upon
which the case is decided is so important, and will operate so

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

60.1

Taylor d aL 7.'CarryL

widely, that I feel it my duty to show the gr.unds upon whibh
I differ. This will be done as briefly as IJan; for my object
is to state the principles of law upon whicl my opinion. is
formed, rather than to argue them at length.
The opinion of the court treats this controversy-as a conflict
between the jurisdiction and rights of a State court, and the
jurisdiction and rights of a court of the United States, as a
conflict between sovereignties, both acting by their own officers within the spheres of their acknowledged powers. In my
judgment, this is a mistaken view of the question.presented by
the record. It is not a question between the relative powers
of a State and the United States, acting through their judicial
tribunals, but merely upon the relative powers and duties of
a court of admiralty and a court of common law in the case'of
an admitted maritime lien, It is true that the court of admiralty is a court of the United States, and the cour of common
law is a court of the State of Pennsylvania. But the very
same questions may arise, and indeed have arisen, where.
both courts are created by and acting under the same sovereignty. And the relative powers and duties of a coirt of
admiralty and a court of common law can upon no sound
principles be different, because the ohe is a court of the United',
States and the other the court of a State. The same rules'
which would govern under similar circumstances, where the
procesd of attachment or afierifaiashad issued from a Circuit
Court of the United States exercising a common-law jurisdic-.
tion, must govern in this case. The court of admiralty and
court of common law have each their appropriate and prescribed sphere of action, and can never come in conflict, unless
one of them goes outside of its' proper orbit. 'And a court of
common law, although' acting under a State, has no right to
place itself within the sphere of action appropriated peculiarly
and exclusively to a court of admiralty, and thereby impede it
in the discharge'of the duties imposed upon it by the Constitution and the law.
There are some principles of law which have been so long
and so well established that it is sufficient to state them with6t referringito authorities..'
The lien of seamen for their wages is prior'and paramount
to all other claims on the vessel, and,must be firstpaid.
By the Constituttion and laws of the United States, the only
court that has 'jurisdiction over this lien, or authorized to enforce it, is the court of admiralty, and it is the duty of that
courtto do so.'
The seamen, as a matter of right, are entitledto the process
of the court to enforce payment promptly, in order that they

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

may not be lef penniless, and without the means of support
on shore. And the right to this remedy is as well and firmly
established as the riglt to the paramount lien.
No court of common law can enforce or displace this lien.
It has no jurisdiction over it, nor any right to obstruct or interfere with the lien, or the remedy wbich is given to the
seaman.
A general creditor of the ship-owner has no lien on the vessel. When she is attached (as in this case) by process from a
court of common law, nothing is taken, or can be taken, but
the interest of the owner remaining after the maritime liens
are satisfied. The seizure does not reach them. The thing
taken is'not-the whole interest in the ship. And the only interest which this process can seize is a secondary and subordinate interest, subject to the superior and paramount claims for
seamen's wages; and what will be the amount of those claims,
or whether anything would remain to be attached, the court
of common law cannot know until they are heard and decided
upon in the court of admiralty.
I do not understand these propositions to be disputed.
Under the attachment, therefore, which issued from the
common-law court of Pennsylvania, nothing was legally in the
custody of the sheriff but the interest of the owner, whatever
it might prove to be, after the liens were heard and adjudicated
in the only court that could hear and determine them. The
common-law process was not and could not be a proceeding
in rein, to charge the ship with the debt, for the creditor has
no lien upon her,' and the court had no jurisdiction over anything but the owner's residuum.
The whole ship could not be sold by them, so as to convey
an absolute right of 'property to the purchaser. And even
what was seizedwas not taken to subject it to the payment of
the debt, but merely to compel the owner to appear personally
to a suit brought against him in personam in the c6urt which
issued the process of attachment. It was ancillary to the suit
against him personally, and nothing more. The vessel would
be released from the process, and restored to him, as soon as -he
gave bail and appeared to the suit; and, she would be condemned and sold only upon his refusal to appear. But, according to the laws of the State and the practice of the common-law
court, twelve months or more might elapse before the vessel
was either sold or released from the process.
The question, then, is simply this: can a court of common
law, having jurisdiction of only a subordinate and inferior interest, shut fhe doors of justice for twelve months or more
against the paramount and superior claims of seamen for wages

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

603

Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

due, and prevent them from seeking a remedy in the. 'only
court that can give it? I think not. And if it can be done,
then the paramount rights of seamen for *ages, so long ind
so constantly admitted, is a delusion. " The denial of the remedy for twelve months or more after the ship has arrived is
equivalent, in its effect upon them, to a denial of the lien;
substantially and practically it would amount to the same
thing. And it is equally a denial of the right-of the court of
admiralty to exercise the jurisdiction conferred on it by'the,
Constitution and laws of the United States.
N'ow it is very clear, that if this ship had been seized by
process from a common-law court of the United States for a
debt due from the owner, the possession of the marshal under
that process would have been superseded by process from the
admiralty upon a preferred maritime lien. This I understand
to be admitted. And if it be admitted, I do not see how the
fact that this process was from a common-law court of a State,
and served by its own officer, can make any difference; for
the common-law court of a State has no more right to impede'
the admiralty in the exercise of its legitimate and exclusive
powers, than a common-law court of the United States. 'And
the sheriff, who is the mere ministerial. officer of the court of'
common law, can have no greater power or jurisdiction over
the vessel than the court whose process he executes. ,He seizes
what the court had a right to seize; he has no right of possession beyond it; and if the interest over which the court has
jurisdiction is secondary and subordinate to the interest over
which the admiralty has exclusive jurisdiction, 'his possession
is secondary and subordinate in like manner, and subject to
the process on the superior and paramount claim. It is the
process and the authority of the court to is'sue it that must
determine who has the superior right. And if the one is to
enforce a right paramount and superior to the other, it is perfectly immaterial whether the first process was served by a
sheriff or the marshal. Nor does it make any difference when
they are served by different officers of different courts. In the
case of the Flora, .1 Hagg., 298, the vessel had been seized by
a sheriff upon process from the Court of King's Bench. She
was afterwards, and while in possession of the sheriff, arrested
upon process from the admiralty on a prior maritime lien, and
was sold 'by the marshal while the sheriff still held her under
the conmof-lI v proces. The- sale by the marshal was held
to be validb'y the.King's Bench,. It is true, that the creditor
at whose suit the' .essel was seized by the, sheriff consented to
the-sale, and clained 'to come in for the surplus after paying
the maritime lien. But if the-marshal could not lawfully ar-

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

rest while she was in the possession of the sheriff, he could
not lawfully sell under that arrest, nor while the sheriff still
held possession, and no consent of parties would make it a
valid marshal's sale, and give a good title to the purchaser, if
the sale was without authority of law. The validity of these
proceedings was biought before the courts by the ship-owner,
and earnestly litigated. The Court of King 's Bench sanctioned
the sale, not upon the ground that the creditor consented to it,
but upon the ground that the marshal acted under a court of
competent authority, (see note 301,) and they refused to interfere with the surplus which remained after payment of seamen's wages, which had been paid into the registry of the
admiralty, even in behalf of the creditor who had seized under
their own process. The King's Bench do not seem to have
supposed there was any conflict of jurisdiction in the case, or
that their process or officer had been improperly interfered
with by the marshal, nor did the King's Bench hold that there
was any incongruity in the possession of the sheriff and the
marshal at the same time. On the contrary, it was conceded
on all hands that the possession of the sheriff was no obstacle
to the arrest by the marshal, nor any impediment in the way
of the admiralty, when exercising its appropriate and exclusive
jurisdiction, in enforcing claims prior and superior to that of
the attaching creditor. Is there any substantial difference
between that case and the one before us? I can see none.
Chancellor Kent, in his Commentaries, states the principle
with his usual precision and clearness, and in a few words.
In vol. 1st, 380, speaking of the lien for seamens" wages, he
says: "The admiralty jurisdiction is essential in all such cases,
for the process of a court of eommon law cannot directly touch
the thing in specie." And in my judgment the process of the
court of common law in this case did not touch the interest of
the seamen in the ship.
But it seems, however, to be supposed, that the circumstance
that the common-law court was the court of a State, and not
of the United States, distingnishes this case from that of the
Flora, and is decisive in this controversy. And it is said that
the Royal Saxon, being in possession of an officer of a State
court, un'der process from the court, she was in the possession
ofan officer of another sovereignty, and was in the custody of
its"law, and that no process could be served upon her, issuing
from the court of a different sovereignty, without infringing
upon the rights of the State, and bringing on unavoidably a
conflict between the United States and the State.
If, by another and different sovereignty, it is meant that the
power of the State is sovereign within its sphere of action, as

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

605

Taylor el at. v. Carryl.

marked out by the Constitution, of the United- States, and that
no court or officer of the United States can seize or interfere
with property in the custody of an officer of a State court,
where the property and all the rights in it are subject to the
control of the judicial authorities of the State, nobody willdispute the proposition. But if it is intended.to say that, in
the administration of judicial power, the tribunals of the States
and the United States are to be regarded as the tribunals of
separate and independent sovereignties, dealing with each in
this respect upon the principles which govern the comity of
nations, I cannot assent to it. The Constitution of the UnitedStates is as much a part of the law of Pennsylvania asits own
Constitution, and the laws passed by the General Government
pursuant to the Constitution are as obligatory upon-the courts'
of the States ad upon those of the United States; and they are
equally bound to respect and uphold the acts and procesK of
the courts of the United States, when acting within the scope
of its legitimate authority. And its courts of comrion law
stand in the same relation to the courts of admiralty, in thd
exercise of their judicial powers, as if they were courts of common law bf the United States. The Constitution and the-laws,
which establish the admiralty courts and regulate their jurisdiction, are a part of the supreme law of the State; and the
State could not authorize its common-law courts to issue any
,process, or its officers to execute it, which would impede or
prevent the admiralty court from performing the duties imposed
upon it, on exercising the power conferred on it by the Constittion and laws of the United States. The State courts have
not, and cannot have, any jurisdiction in admiralty and maritime liens, to bring them -into conflict with the courts of the
United States. This principle appears to me to rest on the
clear construction of the Constitution, and has been maintained
by eminent jurists.
Precisely the same question now decided came before the
Circuit Court of Massachusetts twenty years ago, in the case
of certain logs of mahogany, Thomas Richardson, claimant,
reported in 2d Sumn., 589; ,and also before the District Court
Qf the State of Maine, thirty years ago, in the case of Poland
et al. v. the freight and cargo of the brig Spartan, reported in
Ware's Rep., 143; and in both of these cases the point was
fully considered and decided by the court; and in both it was
held that a previous seizure under a process of attachment from
a State court could not prevent the admiralty from proceeding
in ren to enforce the preferred liens of which it has exclusive
jurisdiction.
In the case in the Circuit Court of Massachusetts' Mr. Justice

606

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

Story says: "A suit in a State court by replevin or by attachment can never be admitted to supersede the right of a court
of admiralty to proceed by a suit in ren, to enforce a right
against that property, to whomsoever it may belong. The
admiralty does not attempt to enter into any conflict with the
State court, as to the just operation of its own process; but it
merely asserts a paramount right against all persons whatever,
whether claiming above or under the process. No doubt can
exist that a ship may be seized under admiralty process for a
forfeiture, notwithstanding a prior replevin or attachment of
the ship then pending. The same thing is true as to the lien
on a ship for seamen's wages, or a bottomry bond."
I quote the words of Mr. IJustice Story, because he briefly
and clearly states the principle upon which the jurisdiction of
the respective courts is regulated, and upon which I think
this case ought to be decided. The Constitution and laws of
the United States confer the entire admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction expressly upon the courts of the General Government. And admiralty and maritime liens are therefore outside
of the line which marks the authority of a common-law court
of a State, and excluded from its jurisdiction. And if a common-law court sells the vessel to which the lien has attached,
upon cofidemnation, to pay the debt, or on account of its perishable condition, it must sell subject to the maritime liens,
and they will adhere to the vessel in the hands of the purchaser,
and of those claiming under him.'
Upon what sound principle, then, of judicial reasoning can
it be maintained, that although the process of a common-law
court cannot reach the maritime liens, yet, by laying hold of
some other interest, it can withdraw them from admiralty for an
indefinite period of time? It cannot issue its mandate to the
admiralty, not to proceed upon those liens; but, according ti
the present decision, it may take the lien out of its power and
out of its jurisdiction. I cannot be persuaded that a court
which, by the Constitution of the United States, has no jurisdiction over the subject-matter-that is, the maritime lien-can
directly or indirectly prevent or delay the court which, by the
Constitution, has exclusive jurisdiction, from fulfilling its judicial duty, or the seamen from pursuing their remedy, where
alone they can. obtain it.
But the decision of this court in the case of Hagan v. Lucas,
10 Pet., 400, it is said, is the same in principle, and must govern
the case now before us. If this were the case, I should yield
to its authority, however reluctant I might feel to do so. But
ii) my judgment the point decided in that case has no analogy
whatever to the questions arising in this

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

607

Taylor et al. v. Carryjl.

In the case of Hagan v. Lucas, a judgment had been obtained in the State court of Alabama against certain defendants, and an execution issued, upon which certdin slaves were
seized by the sheriff as the property of the defendants. Lucas, the*defendant in this writ of error, claimed the property
as b6longing to him; and, under a statute of Alabama, the
property.was restored to him by the sheriff; upon hi
bond for the forthcoming of the slaves, if it should be founa
that they were the property of the persofis against whom the
execution Was issued. And proceedings were thereupon'had, to,
try before the court the right of property, according to the provisions of the State law. , Pending these pr.ocpedings, a judgment was obtained in the District Court of the United States
aainst the same defendants, and an execution issued, which
t6h marshal levied on the same property that had been seized
by the sheriff, Lucas thereupon appeared in-court, and again
claimed the slaves as belonging to him, and at the trial exhibited- proof that the proceedings to try the right of property
under the sheriff's levy were still -pending and undetermined'
in the State court. Both the court below and this court held,
that under these circumstances the property could not be taken
in execution by the marshal upon process from the District
Court of the United States.
But what was the principle upon which that case turned?
and what resemblance has it to the questionswe are now called
on to consider?
Here were two courts of common law, exercising the same
jurisdiction, within the same territorial limits, and bth courts
governed by the same laws. •Neither court had any peculiar or
exclusive jurisdiction over the property in. question, nor of any
peculiar right or lien upon it. The State court had the same
power with the District Court to hear and decide any question
that might aris6 as to the rights of property of.any person, and
to protect any liens and priorities of payment to which the
property or its-proceeds were liable. In a.word, they were
courts of concurrent and co-ordinate jurisdiction over the subject-matter; and if the plaintiff in the District Court had any
preferred interest- in - the property, or any superior or prior
claim, he could have asserted that claim in the State court,
and have obtained there the sameremedy and the same protection of his rights, and as effectually and jspeedily, as -the
court of thd United States could have afforded him.
And this court, in deciding the case, did nothing more than
adhere to a rule which, I believe, is universally recognised by
courts of justice-.thit is, that between courts of concurrent
jurisdictioh,.the court that first. obtains possession of the con-

608

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

troversy, or of the property in dispute, must be allowed to dispose of ii finally, without interference or interruption from
the co-ordinate court. And this rule applies where the concurrent jurisdictions are two courts of the United States or two
courts of a State, or one of them the court of a State and the
other a court of the United States. It was no new question
when the case of Hagan v. Lucas came before this court; but
an old and familiar one, upon which courts of concurrent jurisdiction have necessarily uniformly acted, in order to prevent
indecorous and injurious conflicts between courts in the administration of justice. Indeed, this principle seems hardly
to have been disputed in that case. The arguments of counsel are not given in the report.' But, judging from the opinion
delivered by the court, the main question seems to have been,
whether the slaves were not released from execution by the
bond given by Lucas, and the bond substituted in their place.
The court, under the authority of a case decided in the State
court of Alabama, held that they were not released from the
sheriff's levy, and therefore applied the familiar rule in relation to courts of concurrent jurisdiction.
But how can the case of Hagan v. Lucas influence the decision of this? If Pennsylvania had an admiralty or any other
court with jurisdiction over mdritime liens, and the attaching
creditor had proceeded in that court, undoubtedly the same
principle would apply. But the State has no such court, and
can have none such under the Constitution of the United States.
The jurisdiction of the District Court is exclusive on that subject, and the line of division between that and the courts of common law is plainly and distinctly drawn. And when the District
Court proceeded to enforce the lien for seamen's wages, it interfered with no right which the creditor had acquired under
the process of attachment, nor with any right of property, subject to State jurisdiction; and when the District Court, acting
within its exclusive and appropriate jurisdiction, proceeded to
enforce the preferred and superior right of seamen's wages, it
claimed no superiority over the State court; it merely exercised a separate and distinct jurisdiction. It displaced no right
which the attaching creditor had acquired under the State process, nor in any degree lessened his security. Nor did it interfere with any right over which the State court had jurisdiction.
If the liens were paid without sale, his attachment still held
the ship. If she was sold, his right, whatever it was, adhered
to the surplus, if any remaineif after discharging the liens.
And if the State court passed judgment of condemnation in
his favor, he would be entitled to receive from the registry of
the admiralty whatever was awarded him by the State court,

DECEMBER TERM, -1857..

609

aylor et aL v. Carryl.

if there Was surplus enough after pa ing the superior and. pre.
ferred claims for maritime liens. Ican-see no conflict ofju.
risdiction; nor can there be any, if each tribunal confines itself
to its constitutional and appropriate jurisdiction.
But my brethren of the majority seem to suppose,.that the principle decided in Haganv. Lucas goes farther than Tunderstand it; and-that it has established the principle, that where
a ship, within the limits of a State, is attached by an officer of
aoState, under -process from a State court, no process can -be
served upon it from a District Court of the United States, while
it is held under attachment by the sheriff; and that the sherift ;
might lawfully repel the marshal, if he attempted to serve a
process in-rein, although it was issued by the Distiict Court of
the United States, to enforce a paramount'and a superior claim,
for which the ship was liable, and which the District Court
had the exclusive right to enforce, and -over which the State,
court had not jurisdiction.
I
I" I
If this be the principle adopted by this court, and be followed
out to its necessary and legitimate results, it must lead them
further, I am convinced, than they are -prepared to go.- For it
might have happened, that' after this vessel was seized by thesheriff; and while she remained in his possession, it was discovered that she was liable to forfeiture, or had incurred some
pecuniary penalty which was by law a lien upon her, and pro.
cess issued by the District Court to arrest her, in order to enforce the penalty or forfeiture. In such a case, no one, I presume, would think that the sheriff had a right to keep out the
marshal, and, prevent him from arresting the ship; nor would
such an arrest, I presume, be regarded as a violation of the
sovereignty of the State, nor an illegal interference with-the
process or jurisdiction of its courts, Yet if it beadmitted that
the maishal may under such process lawfully take possession
and control of the vessel, upon what principle of law does it
stand? Simply upon this: that the rights of the Ufited States
under the Constitution are paramount and superior to' the
right of-the attaching creditor. And as the'District Court has
exclusive jurisdiction fo decide upon them, and enforce them,
and the State coirt no jurisdiction over them, the State court
cannot lawfully interfere with the process of the District Court,
when exercising its exclusive jurisdiction to enforce and maintain this paramount and superior right.
But is not the claim for mariners' wages superior and-paramount to the claim of the general creditor, at whose suit the
attachment issued? Has not the District Court the exclusive
power to enforce and maintain this right, and, is, not the State
epurt-without jurisdiction upon the subject? It is true, that
VOL. xx.

39

610

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

the seaman's right is not regarded as of equal dignity and
importance with the rights of the United States. But if the
proposition be true, that after the vessel was seized by the
sheriff she was in the custody of the law of the State, and no
process from the District Court would authorize the marshal
to arrest her, although it was issued upon a higher and superior right, for which the ship was liable, and over which the
State court had no jurisdiction, the proposition must necessaIrily embrace process to enforce the superior and prior rights of
the United States, as well as the superior and privileged rights
of individuals; for the District Court has no right to trespass
upon the sovereign and reserved rights of a State, or to interfere unlawfully with the process of its courts, because the
United States are the libellants, and the process issued at their
instance. In this respect, the United States have no greater
right than an individual. And if the Royal Saxon might have
been arrested by the marshal to enforce the higher and superior right of the United States in the appropriate court, I can
see no reason why he might not upon the same grounds make
the arrest to enforce and protect the higher and superior right
to mariners' wages. I think it will be difficult to draw any
clear line of distinction between them, and, in my opinion, the
process may be lawfully executed by the marshal in either case.
I agree with the majority of my brethren in regarding it as
among the first duties of every court of the United States carefully to avoid trespassing upon the rights reserved to the States,
or interfering with the process of their courts when they are
exercising either their exclusive or concurrent jurisdiction in
the matter in controversy. And with the high trusts and
powers confided by the Constitution to the Supreme Court, it
is more especially its duty to abstain from all such interference
itself, and to revise carefully the judgments of the inferior
courts of the United States whenever that question arises, and
to reverse them if they exceed their jurisdiction. But I must
add, that while in my judgment this court should be the last
court in the Union to exercise powers not authorized by the
Constitution, it should be the last court in the Union to retreat
from duties which the Constitution and laws have imposed.
It has been suggested that this was a foreign ship, and the
seamen foreign seamen, and that they are not therefore embraced in the act of Congress which gives a lien upon the vessel for seamen's wages. But this provision of the law was
nothing more than an affirmance of the lien which was given
by the maritime law in England from the earliest period of its
commercial jurisprudence, and indeed by the maritime law of
every nation engaged in commercial adventures. And the

DEOEM BER TERM, 1857.
Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

English law was brought with them .by the colonists when
they migrated to this country, and was invariably acted on
by every admiralty court, long before the act of Congress was
passed.
It is true, that it is not in every case obligatory upon our
courts of admiralty to enforce it in the case of foreign ships,
and the right or duty of doing so is sometimes regulated with,
particular nations by treaty. But as a general rule, where
there is no treaty regulation, and no law of Congress to the
contrary, the admiralty courts have always enforced the lien
where it was given by the law of the State or nation to which
the vessel belonged. In this respect the admiralty courts act
as international courts, and enforce the lien upon principles of
comity. There may be, and, sometimes have been, cases in
which the court, under special circumstances, has refused to
interfere between the foreign seamen and ship-owner; but that
is always a question of sound judicial discretion, and does not
affect the jurisdiction of the court, and, like all questibns resting in the judicial discretion of the court below, (such as
granting or refusing a new trial, contiiiuing a case, or quash-.
ing an execution,) it is not a subject for revision here, and
furnishes no ground for appeal, or for impeaching the validity
of the judgment. The District Court undoubtedly had jurisdiction of the case, if in its discretion it deemed it proper to
exercise it.
Indeed, there appears to have been no special circumstances
brought to the notice of the court to induce it, upon international considerations, not to interfere. There was, no objection on the.part of the foreign ship-owner or master; but, on
the contrary, a general desire that the court should do so.
And certainly this circumstance was not even adverted to in
the State or District Court, and had no influence upon the
opinions of either.
It is perhaps to be regretted that this question of jurisdiction
did 'not arise between two courts of common law, but- has
arisen between the admiralty courts of the United States and
a common-law court of the State. I am sensible, that among
the highest and most enlightened minds, which have'been
nurtured and trained in the studies of the common law, there
is a jealousy of the admiralty jurisdiction, and that the principles of the common law are regard ed ad favorable to personal
liberty and personal rights, and those of the admiralty as tending in a contrary directibn. And under the influence .of this
opinion, they are apt to consider any restriction upon the
power of the latter as so much gained to the cause of free institutions. And as there is no admiralty jurisdiction reserved

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

to the States, and the administration of justice in their courts
is confined to questions of common law and chancery, the
studies and pursuits of the jurists in the States do not generally
lead them to examine into the history and character of the admiralty jurisdiction; nor to inquire into its usefulness, and
indeed necessity, in every country extensively engaged in
commerce. Their opinions are naturally formed from common-law decisions, and common-law writings and commentaries. And no one has contributed more than Lord Coke to
create these opinions. His great knowledge of the common
law, displayed in his voluminous writings, has made him a
high authority in all matters concerning the administration of
justice. And every one who in early life has passed through
the usual studies of the common law, feels the influence of his
opinions afterwards, in all matters connected with legal inquiries. The firmness with which he resisted the encroachments
of the Crown upon the liberty of the subject, in the reigns of
James I and Charles I, has added to the weight of his opinions,
and impressed them more strongly and durably upon the mind
of the student. But before we receive implicitly his doctrines
on the admiralty jurisdiction, it may be well to remember that
in the case of Smart v. Wolf, 3 T. R., 348, where the opinions
of, Lord Coke were referred to upon a question of admiralty
jurisdiction, Mr. Justice Buller said: "with respect to what is
said relative to the admiralty jurisdiction in 4 Inst., 135, that part of Lord Coke's work has been always received with great
caution, and frequently contradicted. lie seems to have entertained not only a jealousy of, but an enmity against, the
jurisdiction."
I need not speak of the weight to which thiis opinion is entitled, when judicially pronounced by Mr. Justice Buller in
the King's Bench, in deciding a well-considered case then
before the court.
Every one who has studied the history of English jurispru
dence generally, and who has not confined his researches to
the decisions of the common-law courts, and the commentaries
of writers trained in them, is aware that a very grave contest
existed for a long time, as to the relative jurisdictions of the
Court of King's l ench and the admiralty after the passage of
the statutes of Richard H, which are so often referred to. And
this controversy was continued with unabated zeal on both
sides after the passage of the statutes of Henry IV and Henry
VIII, on the same subject.
It is not my purpose to discuss the points on which the
courts differed. I refer to the controversy merely to show
thac the construction given to the English statutes by the

DECEM.BER TERM, 1857.

613

Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

King's Bench, and which finally narrowed so much the jurisdiction of the English admiralty, was earnestly disputed at the
time- by many of the most distinguished jurists of the day.
Indeed, the decisions of the King's Bench were by no means
uniform, and the opinions of common-law judges on the subject widely differed. This appears by the opinion of the twelve
judges, given to the King inCouncil, according to the usage
of the English Government at that period of its history, and
also by the ordinance of the Parliament in 1648, both of which
materially differed from the decisions made before and afterwards in the ]King's Bench. I refer to these opinions particuTarly because they show, past doubt, that the construction
placed upon the English statutes, now so confidently assumed
to have been the admitted one at the time, was, in fact, for
several generations, earnestly disputed by legal minds of the
highest order, and was at length forced on the admiralty by
the controlling power of the King's Bench; for, whatever jistice or weight of argument there might be on the part of the
construction of the admiralty judges, the power was in ithe
King's Bench. It exercised not merely the ordinary appellate
authority of a superior court, but it issued its prohibition, forbidding any other court to try a suit brought in it where the
judges of the King's Bench denied the jurisdiction of the in-.
ferior court, and claimed the right to have the case tried before
themselves.
How, and under what influences, such a power 'would be
exercised, from the reign of Richard If to that of Henry VIII,
we may readily imagine. It was a period when England was
divided by the rival claims of the houses of York and Lancaster to the crown, and was often convulsed by civil wars, not
upon questions of civil liberty or national -policy, but merely
to-determine which of the claimants should be their king; and
when the monarch who succeeded in fighting his way to the
throne framed his policy, and appointed the officers, civil as
well as military, with a view to maintain his own power, and
destroy the hopes of his adversary, rather than with any desire
to promote the liberties of the people, or establish an enlightened and impartial administration of justice in his courts. And
as the king was presumed to preside in -person in the King's
Bench, and the judges held their offices at his .pleasure, no
reader of history will doubt the temper and spirit in which
power was exercised.
But we are-notleft to conjecture on that subject. Thesame
efforts and means that were successfully used to break down
the court of admiralty, were also used at the same time, and
by the same men, to restrict the powers of the court of chart-.

614

SUPREM-E COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Carry.

cery, but not with the like success. And the same reasons
were assigned for it--that is, that it proceeded upon the principles and adopted the practice of the civil law, and had no
jury, and was on that account unfavorable to the principles
of civil liberty, whilst the proceedings at common law supported and cherished them. These hostile efbrts against the
chancery continued until the reign of James I, and were made
with renewed vigor in the time of Lord Ellesmere, who was
appointed Lord Keeper by Queen Elizabeth, and Chancellor
by James I.
A brief passage from the life of Lord Chancellor Ellesmere,
by Lord Campbell, will tell us how far the earlier decisions of
the Courts of King's Bench on the statutes of Richard II, Henry IV,and Henry VIII, which are so often pressed upon us,
ought to be respected as just interpretations of these statutes,
and also how far we ought to regard those judges as high and
impartial jurists, seeking only to maintain free institutions
when they give judgments restraining the jurisdiction of other
courts.
The passage I quote frpm Lord Campbell is in his 2d vol.
Lives of the Chancellors, 184, 185, London edition of 1845,
where, after stating that few of his (Lord Ellesmere's) judgments had come down in a shape to enable us to form an
opinion of their merits, but that they were said to have been
distinguished for sound learning, lucid arrangement, and great
precision of doctrine, he proceeds in the following words:
"The only persons by whom he was not entirely approved
were the common-law judges. He had the boldness to question and correct their pedantic rules more freely than Lord
Keeper Puckering, Lord Keeper Bacon, or any of his predecessors, had done, and not unfrequently he granted injunctions
against executions on common-law judgments, on the ground
of fraud In the plaintiff, or some defect of procedure by which
justice had been defeated. He thus not only hurt the pride
of these venerable magistrates, but he interfered with their
profits, which depended mainly upon the number of suits
brought before them, and the reputation of their respective
These jealousies, which begun so soon after his apcourts.
pointment,
went on constantly increasing, till at last, as we
shall see, they produced an explosion which shook Westminster
Hall to its centre."
We need nothing further to show what respect is due to the
opinions of judges actuated by such motives.
The legislation of England, however, in the present age,
when the principles of civil liberty and enlightened jurisprudence are better understood, shows that the' restrictions upon

-DECEMBER. TERM, 1857.
Taylor

a al. v.

615

Carryl.

the admiralty jurisdiction, imposed by the King's Bench, have
been found unsuitable to the wants of a great commercial people, and that the enlargement of that jurisdiction is not xegarded, at the present day, as adverse to the march of liberal
and free. institutions. And the decisions of the King's Bench
having been too firnly established, by repeated adjudications,
to be removed by judicial authority, Parliament interposed,

and by the statute of 3d and 4th Victoria, passed in 1840, restored to the court many of the most'important powers in civil
cases that had been wrested from it by the decisions in the
King's Bench. *The courts of common law proved to be far
less suited for such controversies. 'And it is no small evidence
of the soundness of the doctrines heretofore upheld by this
court, that with the powers restored by Parliament, the English admiralty now exercises nearly the same jurisdiction
which this court had previously maintained to be the appropriate and legitimate power of a court of admiralty. A syn6psis of the jurisdiction of the English admiralty, as -now established, is stated in 1 kent's Com., 371, 372, in the nbtes. But
it is proper to remark, that in stating in these notes the admiralty jurisdiction as recognised in !he United States, I think it
is stated too broadly-broader than this court has sanctioned;
for, as regards the jurisdiction in policies of insurance, I believe it has never been asserted in any circuit but the first, and
certainly has never been brought here for adjudication.
This brief review of the long contest in England, between
the Courts of King's Bench an the admiralty, seemed to be
necessary, as it shows past doubt that the efforts of the former
to take away the jurisdiction of the latter, and to compel the
suitors to seek redress in the King's Bench, did not arise from
any anxiety to preserve free institutions, and that the charges
made against the admiralty, of favoring despotic principles, and
usurping powers which did not belong to it, are without foundation. It shows, moreover, that the persevering encroachments of the King's Bench, and its unfarranted construction
of the English statutes, were constantly disputed and opposed
by enlightened jurists. The contest was carried on to a very
late period, with varying decisions, in the Court of King's Bench
itself, upon the subject, and no certain and definite line of jurisdiction in admiralty appears to have been fixed and established,
even at the period of the American Revolution, and indeed not
until the passage of the late act of Parliament.
And if we are to look to England for an example of enlightened policy in the Government, and a system of jurisprudence
suited to the wants of a great commercial nation, or a just and
impartial administration of the laws by judicial tribunals upon

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

principles most favorable to civil liberty, I should not look to
the reigns of Richard II, or of Henry IV, or Henry VIII, for
either. And I should rather expect to find examples worthy
of respect and commendation in the England of the present
day, in her statute of 3d and 4th of Victoria, in the elevated
and enlightened character of its present courts of justice, and
in their mutual respect and consideration for the acts and authority of each other, without any display of jealousy or suspicion.
As to the unfavorable tendencies of the admiralty jurisdiction, it is perhaps sufficient to say, that under the Constitution of the United States it has no criminal jurisdiction; nor
is the suitor without the protection of a trial by jury, if the
legislative body which creates the court and regulates its powers think proper to give the right. There is nothing in the
character and proceedings of the admiralty incompatible with
the trial by jury. And, indeed, it has already been given to a
certain extent by the act of Congress of 1845, and may at the
will of Congress be given in every case, if it is supposed the
purposes of justice require it.
I can therefore see no ground for jealousy or enmity to the
admiralty jurisdiction. It has in it no one quality inconsistent
with or unfavorable to free institutions. The simplicity and
celerity of its proceedings make a jurisdiction of that kind a
necessity in every just and enlightened commercial nation.
The delays unavoidably incident to a court of common law,
from its rules and modes of proceeding, are equivalent to a
denial of justice where the rights of seamen, or maritime contracts or torts, are concerned, and seafaring men the witnesses
to prove them; and the public confidence is conclusively
proved by the well-known fact, that in the great majority of
cases, where there is a choice of jurisdictions, the party seeks
hi remedy in the court of admiralty in preference to a court
of common law of the State, however eminent and distinguished
the State tribunals may be.
The opinions of Lord Coke, in all matters relating to the
laws and institutions of England, were deeply impressed upon
the English nation, and for a long time exercised a controlling
influence. But with the advance of knowledge, and a more
enlightened judgment in the science of government and jurisprudence, the courts of justice have not shut their eyes to
errors committed under the influence of prejudice or passion.
This is evident from the language of Mr. Justice Buller hereinbefore mentioned, by the respect shown to the jurisdiction and
authority of the admiralty in the case of the Flora, in 1st Hag.,
and by the recent act of Parliament, and I can see no good

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

617

Taylor et al. v. Carryl.

reason for fostering in the common-law courts of this country,
whether State or Federal, opinions sprhiging from prejudices
which arose out of the conflicts of the times, and which tend to
create jealousies and suspicions on their part, and produce discord instead of harmony and mutual good feelingin the tribunals of justice. These jealousies and suspicions of Lord Coke
undoubtedly grew out of the vehement conflicts, personal as
well as political, in which he was so prominently engaged
during all his lifetime. They have been discarded and disowned in the courts of the country from which we derived
them, and also emphatically repudiated by the stat. of 3 and 4
of Victoria.
And believing, as I do, upon the best consideration I am able
to give to the subject, that the decision and the principle upon
which the opinion of the court founds itself is inapplicable to
the case before us, and that if it is carried out to its legitimate
results it will-deprive the admiralty of power, useful, and indeed necessary, for the purposes of justice, and conferred on
it by the Constitution and laws of the United States, I must
respectfully record my dissent.

