DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
.HcFaul v. Ramqey.

fifth section of the judiciary act. The -record does not show
that it draws in question any treaty, statute, or authority, exercised under the United States; or the validity of any State
statute, for repugnancy to the-Constitution of the United States;
or the construction of any clause of the Constitution; or of a
treaty or statute commission held under the United States. It
is a mere questioirof boundary between two neighbors, both
admitted to have valid, rants from the United States. It is a
question of fact, depending on monuments to be found on the
ground, documents in the land office, or the opinion of experts
or surveyors appointed by the court or the parties. If the
accident to the controversy that both parties claim title under
the United States should be considered as sufficient to bring it
within our jurisdiction, then every controversy involving the
title to such lands, whether it involve the inheritance, partition, devise, or sale of it, may, with equal propriety, be subject
to the examination of this court in all time to come.
This question is not new; -it was decided in the case of McDonough v. Millaudon, 3 How., 693, where this court refused
to entertain jurisdiction to review the judgment of a State
court, ascertaining the boundaries between complete grants
under the French Government, as it did not call in question
either the construction or the validity of the treaty, or the title
to the land held'under it. (See also Kennedy v. Hunt, 7 How.,
593.)
It is therefore ordered that this case be dismissed for want
of jurisdiction.
ENEAS

McFAUL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JAMES C. RAMISEY.

Where the only bills of exception were to the refusal of the court to grant a continuance and change the venue, the judgment of the court below must be affirmed,
as these matters are not the subjects of review by this court.
The laws -of Iowa permitting a demurrer only when the petition by a fair and natural construction does not show a substantial cause of action, a demurrer to part
of the petition in this case was properly overruled.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the district'of Iowa.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. _Reverdy Tohnson and rf. _Reverdy Johnson, jun., for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Norris for the
defendant.
Mr. Justice GRIER deliv'red the opinion of the court.
Ramsey, the plaintiff below, instituted this suit in the Dis-

SUPREME COURT.
McFaul v. Ramsey.

trict Court of the United States for the district of Iowa.

The

parties have been permitted by that court to frame their pleadings, not according to the simple 'and established forms of
action in courts of common law, but according to a system of
pleadings and practice enacted by that State to regulate proceedings in its own courts. This code commences bv abolishing "all technical forms of actions," prescribing thd following
curt rules for all cases, whether of law or equity:
"Any pleading which possesses the following requisites shall
be deemed sufficient:
"1st. When to the common understanding it conveys a rea6onable certainty of meaning.
"2d. When, by a fair and natural construction, it shows a
substantial cause of action or defence.
I"If defective in the first of the above particulars, the court,
on motion; will direct a more specific statement; if in the latter, it is ground of demurrer."
If the right of deciding absolutely and finally all matters in
controversy between suitors were cbmmitted to a single tribunal, it might be left to collect the nature of the wrong complained of, and the remedy sought, from the allegations of the
party ore tenus, or in any other manner it might choose to adopt.
But the common law, which wisely commits the decision of
questions of law to a court supposed to be learned in the law,
and the decision of the facts to a jury, necessarily requires that
the controversy, before it is submitted to the tribunal having
jurisdiction of it, should be reduced to one or more integra
propositions of law or fact; hence it is necessary that the parties should frame the allegations which they respectively make
in support of their demand or defence into certain writings
called pleadings. These should clearly, distinctly, and succinctly, state the nature of the wrong complained of, the remedy
sought, and the defence set up. The end proposed is to bring
the matter of litigation to one or, more points, simple and unambiguous. At one time, the excessive accuracy required, the
subtlety of distinctions introduced by astute logicians, the introduction of cumbrous forms, fictions, and contrivances, which
seemed only to perplex the investigation of truth, had brought
the system of special pleading into deserved disrepute, notwithstanding the assertion of Sir William Jones, that "it was
the best logic in the world, except mathematics." This system is said to have come to its perfection in the reign of Edward III. But in more modern times it has been so modified
by the courts, and trimmed of its excrescences, the pleadings
in every form of common-law action have been so completely
reduced to simple, clear, and unambiguous forms, that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

525

merits of a cause are now never submerged under folios of special demurrers, alleging errors in pleading, which, -when discovered, are immediately permitted to be amended. This system, matured by the wisdom of ages, founded on principles of
truth and sound reason, has been ruthlessly abolished in many
of our States, who have rashly substituted in its place the suggestions of seiolists, who invent new codes and systems of
pleading to order. But this attempt to abolish all species, and
establish a single genus, is found to be beyond the power of
legislative'omnipotence. They cannot compel the human mind
not to distinguish between things that differ. The distinction
between the different forms of actions for different wrongs, re-,
quiring different remedies, lies in the nature of things; it is
absolutely inseparable from the correct administration of justice in common-law courts.
*Theresult of these experiments, so far as they have come to
our knowledge, has been to destroy the certainty and simplicity
of all pleadings, and introduceon the record an endless wrangle
in writing, perplexing to the court, delaying and impeding the
administration of justice. In the case of Randon v. Toby, (11
Howard, 517,) we had occasion to notice the operation and result of a code similar to that of Iowa. In a simple action on
a promissory note, the pleadings of which, acc6rding to common-law forms, *vould not have occupied a page, they were
extended to over twenty pages, requiring two years of wrangle,
with exceptions and special demurrers, before an issue could
be formed between the parties. In order to arrive at the justice of the case, this court was compelled to disregard the chaos
of pleadings, and eliminate the aerits of the case from a confussed mass of fifty special demurrers or exceptions, anddecide
the. cause without regard- to these contrivances to delay and
impede a decision of the real controversy between the parties.
In the case of Bennet v. Butterworth, (11 Howard, 667,) originating under the same code, the court wereunable to discover
from the pleading the nature of action or of the remedy sought.
It might, with equal probability, be called an action of debt, or
detinue, or repJevin, or trover,, or trespass, or a i11 in chancery. The jury and the court below seem to have labored
under'the same' perplexity, as the verdict was for $1,200, and
the'judgment'for four negroes. In both these cases this court
.have endeavored to imiess the minds of the'judges of the District aid Cirouit Courts of the United States with the impropriety of permitting thee experimental codes of pleading and
practice to be inflicted upon them. In the last-mentioned case,
the Chief Justice, in delivering the opinion of the court, says:
" The Constitution of the United States has recognised the dis-

526

SUPREME COURT.
IcFaul v. Ramsey.

tinction between law and equity, and it must be observed in the
Federal courts." In Louisiana, where the civil law prevails,
we have necessarily to adopt the forms of action inseparable
from the system. But in those States where the courts of the
United States administer the common law, they cannot adopt
these novel inventions, which propose to amalgamate law and
equity by enacting a hybrid system of pleadings unsuited to
the administration of either.
We have made these few introductory remarks before proceeding to notice the merits of the controversy, as developed
by the record, in order that the bar and courts of the United
States may make their records conform to these views, and
not call upon us to construe new codes and hear special demurrers or pleadings, which are not required to conform to any
system founded on reason and experience. To test such pleadings by the logical reasoning of the common law, after requi.
ring the party to disregard all forms of action known to the law
under which he seeks a remedy, would be unwarrantable and
unjust.
The plaintiff's petition sets forth his grievances in plain, intelligible form, if not with technical brevity and simplicity.
1st. He alleges a contract with defendant to deliver to him
eight hundred hogsf on or before a certain day; in consideration whereof, the defendant agreed to pay plaintiff $5.50 per
hundred pounds net. He avers that he did deliver according to
contract, at the time and place, the number of eight hundred
hogs; that defendant refused to receive over five hundred and
fifty of them, or pay for the remainder.
2d. He complains that defendant refused to receive and
butcher the hogs in accordance with the agreement, and, thus
caused by his delay, that the plaintiff was put to expense in
feeding the hogs, and exposed to a great loss in the net weight.
3d. That defendant did not make a true return of the 'net
weight, but defrauded plaintiff on that behalf
4th. That he slaughtered twenty-four more hogs than he
accounted for, and improperly cut off parts of others to reduce
their weight.
5th. The plaintiff alleges, in what might be called a second
count, another contract to deliver fourteen hundred hogs to
defendant, at $5.60 per hundred net.
He avers delivery according to contract, and charges defendant with delay in slaughtering them; causing great loss in the
weight, and expense to plaintiff in feeding them in the mean
while.
6th. He charges defendant with taking one hundred other
hogs of plaintifl, for which he refused to account.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
.Beers v. State of Arkansas.

52T

1Plateniucv. Sta e of Arkansas. Same v. Same.

7th. That in consequence of delay in receiving, many of the
hogs died, to the great loss of plaintiff.
8th. That defendant returned false weights of these fourteen
hundred, and cut off parts before weighing.
9th. The plaintiff also sets up athird contract for five hundred hogs, which were delivered, and avers the same delay and
consequent injury to plaintiff; aiad the same frauds in weighing, &c..
T1o this catalogue of grievances the defendant, in his answer,
pleads thirty-three distinct denials of the averments in the petition. A jury was called to try these thirty-three issues, and
found a verdict for plaintiff, and assessed his damages.
N1o exception was taken on the trial to the admission or rejection of evidence; no error is alleged in the charge of the
court; and a regular judgment was entered on the verdict.
The only bills of exception were to the iefusal of the court
to grant a continuance and change the venue; both of which
were matters of discretion in the court below, and not the subject of review here.
The cavils to the sufficiency of -the plaintiff's statement,
under the name of a'special demurrer, were overruled by the
court below, and justly, because the code permits a demurrer
only when the petition "by a fair and natural construction does
not show a substantial cause of action." As we have already
shown, it contains a dozen.
The judgment of the court below is affirmed, with costs.

JOSEPH D. BEERS, usE OF WILLIAM A. PLATENIUS, AS ADMNIsTRATOR OF JAMES HOLFORD, DECEASED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
v. THE STATE OF ARKAN AS. WILLIAM A. PLATENIUs; ADMINISTRATOR OF JAMES HOLFORD, DECEASED, PLAINTIFF IN:
ERROR, V. THE STATE OF ARKANSAS. WILLIAM A. PLATENI-

-us, ADMINISTRATOR

.OF JAMES HOLFORD, DECEASED, PLAINTIFF

IN ERROR, V. THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
Under the Constitution of the State of Arkansas, the Legislaturq passed a law allowing the State to be sued.
According to this law, a suit wa's brought upon some of the State bonds; and
whilst the suit was going on, the Legislaturepassed another law, requiring the
bonds to be filed in court, or the suit to be dismissed.
The suitor refusing to file his bonds, the suit was dismissed; and the case was
carried to the Supreme Court of the State, where the judgment" was affirmed.
The case, being brought to this court under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
The permission to bring the suit was not*a contract whose obligations were impaired
by the passage of the subsequent law.

