DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Markg v. Dickson et al.

JAMES MARIKS,.PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. MICaT.V

DICKSON AND

ELIZABETH M. DiCKsoN.
Ta May, 1830, Congress passed an act (4 Stat. at L., 420) which gave the right of preemption to settlers on the public lands, but made null and void all assignments
and transfers of tlie right of pre-emption prior to the issuance of patents. This
act was to remain in force for one year.
In January, 1832, anbther act was passed, (4 Stat. at L., 496,) supplementary to
the former, allowing certificates of purchase to be transferred, and patents to be
issued in the name of the assignee.
In June, 1834, another act was passed, (4 star. at L., 678,) reviving the act of
1830.
The'ttue construction of this act of 1834 is, not that it restored the prohibitory
clause of 1830, but that it revived the supplement, together with the original
act; and that, consequently, an assignment was good and legal before a patent
was issued.
But it was necessary to enter the land at the land office, before the right of assignment accrued; and, therefore, assignments made before such entry were assignments of floats, and void.
A power, however, although executed before the location, was sufficient to justify
an assignment made after the location, there being a tacit affirmance of the
power, when it might have been set aside.

THIs case wai brought up from the Supreme Court of Louisiana, by a rit of error issued under the twenty-fifth section of"
the judiciary act.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by -Mr.Benjamin for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr. Taylor for the defendants.

Mr. Bejamin made three points:.
I. The policy of Congress has been fixed and invariable, not
to allow the beneficent purposes of the pre-emption laws to be
defeated, nior its bbjects perverted to the profit of land speculators. Whetfier wise or unwise, this is the unmistakable
policy of thd law.
Under this point, Mr.Benjamin contended, that although the
deed from Butler's attorney was dated after the location, yet
the power to make it was executed before the location, whilst
the interest was yet nothing but a float; and that such an arrangementw~s a mere device to elude and evade the law. For
example: the power to sell, locate, and transfer, was executed
on 17th July, 1840. The location was made on the 8th August, 18'40. The deed to Dickson was executed on 25th Nfovember, -1840.
-Mr. Benjamin reviewed several acts of Congress and cases, to
show that suchi a device as this power, given prior to the location, was against the whole policy of the law.

502

SUPREME COURT.
.arks v. Dickson et al.

11. The court erred in determining that when Congress, in
1834, revived the act of 1830, it also revived that of 1832.
An opinion to that effect was given in 1835, by Mr. Attorney
General Butler, (2d Opinions, 701;) but no reasons are given
for it. He simply says, "that the revival of the original law
is to be considered as embracing the provisions engrafted
thereon by the supplementary act of 23d January, 1882."
It is submitted that this opinion is utterly untenable.
- It ipnot true that the act of 1832 engrafted any provision on
that of 1830. On the contrary, the act of 1832 was a partial
repeal of that of 1830.
The act of 1880 prohibited assignments of pre-emption rights
prior to issuance of patents. The act of 1832 repealed this
prohibition so far as to permit the assignment of certificates
of purchase or final rebeipts.
In 184,Congress re-enacts the law which prohibited assignments before issuance of patents. By what possible train of
reasoning can it be shown that this act of 1834 is also to be
controlled by that of 1882? The whole of the subsequent legislation shows the contrary. Every law since passed by Congress repeats the prohibition, as already shown.
The act of 1834 is to be construed just as.if the entire act of
1880 had been copied into it. If this had been done, would
any one pretend that the act of 1832 could control its interpretation ?
IIl. The act of 1832, however, can have no possible application to the case before the court. That act, in its very terms,
applies only to persons who purchased before its passage. It
says, in words, that "persons who have purchased under the
act of 1830," may transfer their certificates of purchase, and
patents may issue to assignees.
The act of 1830 had expired by its own limitation on the
29th May, 1831. Nobody who had acquired rights under it
could sell or assign before the issuing of the patents. On the
23d January, 1832, Congress, speaking of this expired law,
says that those who have purchased under it may assign their
certificates of purchase, notwithstanding the prohibition.
The law applied to a certain class of pre-existing cases.
When those cases were settled, the law was functus oftia'o.
Now, Butler was not a person who had purchased under the
act of 1830. His pre-emption was established in 1836, under
the act of 1884.
To apply the act of 1832 to his case, is to violate the language of the law, the rules of grammar, and the legislative intention as exhibited in long-continued and repeated expressions
of the will of Congress.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

503

Marks v. Dcban et al.

Mifr. Tay1or made the following points:
The judgment of the court of the first instance in Louisiana
was against the plaintiff, and in favor of the defendants. Upon
an appeal to the Supreme Court of that State, this judgment
was affirmed, on the ground that the revival of the act of 1830,
by the act of 19th of June, 1834, was "to be considered as embracing the provisions engrafted thereon by the supplementary
act of the 23d of January, 1832," "under the construction put
upon the Congressional acts on this subject by the Attorney
General of the United States;" for, say the court, "the officers of the Government appear to have uniformly acted On this
construction," and "this construction, it appears to us, expresses the manifest intention or will of the law maker."
The only point before the court for review upon the writ of
error to the Supreme Court of Louisiana in this case, is this:
Is there any error in the judgment of that court, based upon
this construction of the acts of Congress, under which the land
in controversy has been separated from the public domain, to
satisfy a right of pre-emption growing up in virtue of settlement and cultivation prior to the 19th of June, 1834?
The defendants say there is no error, becauseI. The act of the 29th of May, 1830, and the supplementary
acts of January 23d, 1832, and .July 14th, 1832, constituted but
one act; and any revival of the act of the 29th of May, 1830, in
the absence of any declaration to the contrary, would necessarily carry with it the supplementary acts. (Sedgwick on
Statute and Constitutional Law, pp. 247, 251, 255; 1st Cranch,
299.)
This view confirmed by the act of June 22d, 1838, which is
cited by plaintiff's counsel for a different purpose. And,
, :. -The administration of the land system of the United
States is vested in the Executive department of the Government, and the officers charged with the disposal of the public
domain under the authority of acts of Congress are required
and empowered to determine the construction of those acts so
far a it relates to the extent and character of the rights claimed
under them, and to be given, through their action, to individuals. This is a portion of the political power of the Govern.ment, and courts of justice never interfere with it. .(Cousin v.
Blanc's Ex., 19 How.,, 206, 209; 2 Pet., 253; 12,Pet., 511; 9
How., 154.)
.The decision of the Attorney General, and the action of the
Land Department for a long series of years in conformitywith
it, is conclusive as to the right of a pre-emptor to sell the land
embraced-in his entry before the issuing of the patent.
A diterent conclusion would unsettle a vast number of titles,

SUPREME COURT.
Harks v. Dickson ef al.

and oVerthrow rights acquired upon the faith of the settled
practice of the Land Department of the Government, dating
back to th6 spring of 1835; and for what? To give sticcess to
an operation by which one seeks to obtain an unjust advantage
over his neighbor, by dealing, with as full knowledge as was
ever yet disclosed to the observation of a court of justice, with
one who stands confessed as the perpetrator of an attempted
fraud.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause is brought here by a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, which, by its judgment, construed the acts
of Congress 6f 1830, 1832, and 1834, securing pre-emption rights
to actual settlers on the public lands.
The facts giving rise to the questions decided are these:
John Butler and Elkin T. Jones resided on the same quarter
section of land, lying in the parish of Claiborne, Louisiana;
and having duly proved their residence on the land, as required
by the acts of Congress, were allowed to purchase jointly at
the proper land office the quarter section on which they resided.
'Being entitled to additional land, Jones and Butler obtained
a certificate, known as a float, authdrizing them to enter a
quarter section. Butler sold his float to Murrill in 1837; Mur1839.
-rill sold to Wood in 1838, and Wood sold to Dickson ita
The land was located in August, 1840, in Butler's name, by
Bullard, who held a power from Butler to locate and sell it.
And in November, 1840, Butler, by his attorney in fact, Bullard, conveyed to William Dickson. In April, 1843, a joint
patent issued in favor of Butler and Jones for the quarter section. In 1851, Butler again sold.his undivided moiety of the
land to James Marks, and conveyed to him in due form. The
Supreme Uourt of Louisiana held, that the'assignment made
in Augrust, 1840, to William Dickson, was lawfully made, and

that iMarks had no equity to sustain his petition, in which he
demanded partition and possession. His petition was dismissed
in the State courts.
If the assignment of the entry to Dickson was valid, then
the judgment below must be affirmed; on the other hand, if
the assignment made by Bullard, as Butler's attorney in fact,
was mhde in violation of the acts of Congress, then it cannot
be set.up as a defence against the deed made to Marks in 1851.
This is the only qucstion that can be revised here on this writ
of error to the proceeding in the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
Its decision depends on the true meaning of the acts of Congress referred to.
The act of 1830 (sec. 3) provides.that All assignments and

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

505

Marbs v. Dikson et al.

transfers of the right of pre-emption given by that act, prior to
issuing of the patent, shall be null and void.
In 1832 a supplementary act was passed, which recites the
act of 1830, and declares that all persons who have purchased
under the act may assign and transfer their certificates of purchase, or final receipts, anything in the act of 1830 to the contrary notwithstanding.
The act of June 19, 1834, revived the act of 1830, and continued it in force for two years without referring to the act of
1832. If this act was made part of that of 1830, then the revival of the latter carried with it no incapacity in the preemptor to assign his certificate of purchase.
A difficulty arose in the General Land Office, as to the effect
of the revival of the act of 1830 by the act of 1834; and whether
the act of 1830, as revived; included the provision of the act of
1832. The Commissioner referred the matter to the Secretary
of the Treasury for his decision; and this officer presented the
questioni to the Attorney General for his official opinion, who
decided that the acts of 1830 and 1832 stood together as one
provision; and being revived by the act of 1834, the intention
of Congress was to confer on the purchaser the power to sell
before the patent issued.
This opinion was .given in March, 1835, and has been followed at the General Land Office ever since; and as Butler's
blaim originated under the act of 1834, it was governed at the
land office by that decision.
We think the construction then given was, in effect, the true
one. Before the prohibition was made by the act of 1830, the
purchaser, when he had obtained his final certificate, acquired
with it a right to sell the land he had purchased in all cases,
nor has that right ever been questioned by Congress, where
entries had been made in the ordinary operations of the land
office; so that the act of 1832 repealed the prohibition imposed
on those having a pre-emption, and placed those who purchased
under it on the footing of other purchasers.
The act of 1832 provided that patents might issue to assignees; but this provision does not'affect the present case, as
the transfer of the entry was valid, and bound Butler from its
.date, and vested his equitable title in Dickson and his heirs,
which was not defeated by the patent. Such would have been
the rights of the parties, had the prohibitory clause not been
passed, and so their rights stood after its repeal.
The object of the Legislature is manifest. It was intended
'to prevent speculation by dealings for rights of preference
before the public lauds were in the market. The speculator acquired power over choice spots, by procuring occu-

506

SUPREME COURT.
Selden v. Mers et aL.

pants to seat themselves on them, and who abandoned them
as soon as the land was entered under their pre-emption rights,
and the speculation accomplished. Nothing could be more
easily done than this, if contracts of this description could be
enforced. The act of 1830, however, proved to be of little
avail; and then came the act of 1838, (5 Stat., 251,) which compelled the pre-emptor to swear that he had not made an agreement by which the title might inure to the benefit of any one
except himself, or that he would transfer it to another at any
subsequent time. This was preliminary to the allowing of his
entry, and discloses the policy of Congress, but it has no application in this cause, as this claim was founded on the act of
1834.
The contract preceding the entry made by Butler with Murrill was merely void; and so were the agreements of Wood
and Dickson for the float before its location. But after the
land was entered by Butler, he had power to affirm, his contract of sale at his option, by conveying the land, and which
sale bound Butler, and concludes Marks.
We order that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana be affirmed, with costs.

FRANCIS SELDEN, APbELLANT, V. LAWRENCE MYERS, PHILIP PIKE,

WALTER LENOX, AND JAMES C. MOGuIRE.
A person dealing with an unlettered man who can neither read nor write, and
taking from him a promissory note for the payment of money and a deed for
property, in trust, to secure the payment, is bound to show, when he seeks to
enforce them, that they, or the material parts of them, were read and fully explained to the party before they were executed, and that he fully understood
their meaning and effect.
If this fact is established by positive and unimpeached testimony, parol evidence
cannot be received, to show that the contract was different from that expressed
in the writings, or that nothing was at that time due from the party who executed the instruments.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States for the District of Columbia.

It was a bill filed by Selden, under the circumstances particularly stated in the opinion of the court. The Circuit Court
dismissed the bill, and Selden appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Coxe and MAIr. W~ebb for the appellant,
and by .Mr. Bradley for the appellees.

