SUPREME COURT.
Gazzam v. Lessee of Elam P ill!ps el al.

in Swift v. Tyson, and in his valuable treatise on Bills of Exchange. (Stoddard ?J.Kimball, 6 Cush., 469; Story on Bills,
see. 192; Chicopee Bank v. Chapin, 8 Met., 40; Blanchard v.
Stevens, 3 Cush., 162; Atkinson v. Brooks, 26 Ver., 569; Allaire v. Hartshorne, 1 Zab., 665.) We think, however, that the
point does not arise in this case, for the reasons before stated,
and, consequently, forbear to express any opinion upon the subject. The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the
cause remanded for further proceedings, with directions to issue
a new venire.
CHARLES

W-'

GAZZAM, PLAINTIFF IN

ERROR, V. LESSEE OF

PHILLIPS AND MARY HIS WIFE, AND ASHBEY W.

ELAM

ETHERIDGE.

The decision of this court in the case of Brown v. Clements (3 How., 650) reviewed and controlled.

The quantity of.land granted to a patentee in pursuance of a pre-emption right

under the act of 29th May, 1830, must, in an action at law, be ascertained from
the description in the patent, and cannot be controlled by any supposed original

equity to the whole of a quarter section to which a claim might have been made

before the register and receiver.
Some latitude of discretion is allowed to the surveyor general under thq act of 24th
April, 1820, and the instructions of the land office, in the subdivision of fractional
sections containing more than one hundred and sixty acres; and he is not obliged,
absolutely, and under all circumstances, to lay off a full quarter or half quarter
section, thiough the fraction is capable of such a subdivision.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Supreme
Court of the State of Alabama.
The parties claimed under the same title* which were before
this court in the case of Brown v. Clements, reported in 3
How., 650. 'A diagram is there given, explanatory of the mode
in which the fractional section was divided between Stone and
Etheridge.
The present suit was an ejectment brought in 1850, by Phillips and Etheridge, who claimed under Etheridge's title against
Gazzam, who claimed under that of Stone.
The suit was brought-in the Circuit Court of the county of
Mobile, (State court,) where the verdict and judgment were
for the plaintiffs, in 1855. The charge of the judge to the jury
was in conformity with the opinion of this court in the case
of Brown v. Clements, accompanied with the remark that such
would not have been his charge, if it had not been for the decision of this court in that case.
In March, 1856, the Supreme Court of Alabama affirmed
this judgment, and Gazzam sued out a writ of error to bring
the case to this court.
The case of Brown v. Clements-was argued and decided in

DECE

E

TERM,1857.

373

Gazzam v. Legsae of ElaviT1hl1ps et al.

this court at the term which commenced in December term,
.1844. In the 24th vol. of Alabama Rep., new series, p. 854, containing the decisions of the Supreme Court at January term,
1854, there is the following opinion delivered by Chief,Justice
Chilton:
"Doe ex dem Brown and wife v. Clements and Hunt, Chilton,
C. J. This court'having rendered a judgment of affirmance
in this cause, it was taken by the plaintiff in error to the Supreme.Court of the -United States, where the judgment of this
court was reversed, and the cause ordered to be remanded' for
further proceedings. The judgment of reversal was rendered
in December, 1844, but the mandate or certificate of reversal
did not reach this court until recently, when the cause was
ordered to be placed upon the. docket, &c., &c.
"it is the duty of the clerk of the Supreme Court of the
United States to forward to this court the evidence -ofthe reversal of the judgment, in order that-the same may be disposed
of in conformity to the decision of that court, &c., &c.
"That
T
the failure of -the clerks to do their duty, in not
placing causes on the docket, slhall'work no prejudice to the
I - 1
parties, &c., &c."
Upon this matter,. the Reporter has received fom the clerk
of this court a communication, which will be f6und in a note.*
*Supreme

Court, Anited States, -DecemberTema, 1A44.

WILLtAx L. BROWN AND WI.x

v.

.

CLMMENT5 MND-EI*NT.

J

-In error to the Supreme Court of Alabama
-

1845, January 21. Judgment reversed, with costs.
1845, May 9. The clerk sent fee bill due by plaintiffs in error to their counsel,
(Mr. Sherman,) and'requested him to remit amount per draft. '

,1845, June 10. The clerk received a letter from Mr. Sherman, remitting a draft
for the amount due by plaintiffs in error, and requesting the clerk to send the
mandate "immediately forward, as the Supreme Court of this State is now in ses-

sion at Tuskaloosa," &c.
1845, June 10. The clerk sent the mandate per mail, addressed to "Charles E.
Sherman, 'Esq., or Clerk of the Supreme Court of Alabama," Tuskaloosa, Alabama.
1858, April 20. Mr. Sherman has thit date obtained a certificate from Hon. J.
Marion, Third Assistant Postmaster Gcnerili stating that on the 12th June, 1845,
there was mailed at Washington city a letter containing a mandate of the Supreme
Court United States, addressed as above, that the same was returned as a dead letter, and was sent to the Washington city post office on the 23d April, 1853, and
that on the 25th of said month it was delivered to Mr. Sherman.

The clerk of the Supreme Couri of the United States does not understand that
it has ever been considered his official duty to transmit.th . mandates of thid cout

to the courts below. It certainly has never been the practice. But, on the contrary, it has always been the practice for Ihe counsel -to attend to the remission
of their cases to-the courts whence they came, justin the same manner and td the.

same extent that they attend to bring them up here.

SUPREME COURT.
Gazzam v.Leaee of Elam Phfl! et al.

The case was argued in this court by Mr. 3T Little Smith for
the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Sherman for the defendants.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Alabama.
The suit was brought in the eourt below to recover the possession of some four acres of land in the city of Mobile.
The lessors of the plaintiff claimed title to the lot in dispute
as heirs of James Etheridge, and gave in evidence a patent
from the United States to their ancestor, dated 30th May,
1833, "for the southwest quarter section twenty-two, in township four south, of range one west, in the district of land subject to sale at St. Stephens, Alabama, containing ninety-two
acres and sixty-seven hundredths of an acre, according to the
official plat of the survey of the said lands returned to the
General Land Office by the surveyor general; which said tract
has been purchased by the said James Etheridge."' The above
is a literal extract from the description of the parcel of land in
the patent granted to Etheridge.
The defendant claimed under William D. Stone, and gave
in evidence a patent to him from the United States, dated the
1Tth December, 1832, "for the south subdivision of fractional
section twenty-two, same township and range, containing one
hundred and ten acres and fifty-one hundredths of an acre,
according to the official plat of survey of the said lands returned
to the General Land Office by the surveyor general; which said
tract has been purchased by the said William D. Stone." Etheridge gave notice to the register and receiver of his claim under
the act of 29th May, 1830, on the 28th January, 1831, and
produced his proofs. Stone gave notice of his claim to the
same section, 25th March, 1831, and furnished his proofs. The
claim and proofs in each case were received and fileq, but no
money was paid, nor certificates given, as the official plat of the
survey of the township had not then been received at the office.
-This plat was returned and filed in March, 1832. There were
private claims surveyed and laid down on the plat to this section, so- that the portion open to the two pre-emption claims
in question was confined to a fractional part of the section.
This fractional part-was divided according to the plat by a line
running north and south- through it, laying off in the west
subdivision ninety-two and sixty-seven hundredths acres, and
in the east one hundred and ten and fifty hundredths acres.
Etheridge purchased the west and-Stone the east subdivision.
The certificates of purchase ware given to both claimants
80th April, 1832. The one to Etheridge is for the southwest

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

375

Gazant T. Las of Rlam Phill!ps et al.

quarter of section twenty-two, containing ninety-two and sixtyseven hundredths acres, the quantity in the west subdivision,
at the rate of one dollar twenty-five cents per acre, amounting
to $115.43; the other to Stone is for the southeast subdivision
of fractional section.twenty-two; containing one hundred and
ten and fifty-one hundredths acres, the quantity in the east
subdivision, at the rate of.one dollar tiventy-five cents per acre,
•I
I
I
amounting to $138.13.
The sales in each case were made in conformity with the
subdivisions, as marked upon the plat of the surveyor general
then on file in the office, and to which all purchasers of the
public land had access, and which constituted the gui.deof the
register and receiver in making the sales.
The lessors of plaintiff also gave evidence showing that the
premises in question were within the southwest quarter section
twenty-two, computing the same according to the usual measurement of quarter sections, and thqt a full quarter might have
been laid off from the fraction, and claimed that the whole of
the southwest quarter had been appropriated to their ahcestor, Etheridge under the pre-emption act of 1830, which position was assented to by the court. The court also ruled that
the purchase and patent of Stone, under whom the defendant
claims, must be restrained to the fraction in the west part of
and that it gave
the southeast quarter of section twenty-two,
him no right to the land in the southwest quarter.
The effect of this ruling, when applied to the case, gave to
the heirs of Etheridge one hundred and sixty acres of the frac-.
tional section, in disregard of the official survey, the p~uichase,
and patent for only the ninety-two acres, and, reduced the
one hundred and ten which Stone purchased, aiid had a patent
for, to some forty-three acres.
The court is of opinion this ruling cannot be maintained.
For,'conceding for the sake of the argument that the plat by
the 'surveyor general of this section was made contrary to law,
the.ground upon which the decision is sought to be maintained,
and that Etheridge, under the pre-emption act of 1830, was
entitled to purchase the whole of the southwest quarter, and
to have itsurveyed and patented to him, yet it was not so sur-.
veyed, nor did he purchase, nor has he obtained a patent for
the same. On the contrary, he 'purchased and paid for the
west subdivision only of this fractional section, containing
mhety-two acres, and took out a patent for. the. subdivision.
Ana in addition to this, Stone, at the same time, purchased
the bast subdivision, as laid down on the. official plat, and has
received a patent for the same, and'iwhich includes the premises
in question.

SUPREME COURT.
Gazzam v. Lessee of Elam Phillips et al.

The patent to Etheridge, as we have seen, describes the land
granted as the southwest quarter, &c., containing ninety-two
and sixty-seven hundreths- acres, according to the official plt
of the survey of said lands returned to the General Land Office.
And the patent to Stone is equally specific in the description
of the parcel granted to him. The title, therefore, to the
premises in question, Wvas never in the ancestor of the
lessors of the plaintiff, but has been in Stone, and those holding under him, since the 17th December, 1832, the date of
his patent.
The case of the claim of Etheridge to the whole of this sout4west quarter, some years after the issuing of the patent to him
and Stone, was presented to the Commissioner of the Land
Office for correction. It was there elaborately examined by
the counsel for the applicant, and by the Commissioner of the
Land Office, and ultimately disposed of by the Secretary of the
Treasury, on the opinion of the Attorney General; that officer
maintaining the regularity of the survey, and of course confixing the grants to the subdivisions as laid down on the plat
referred to in the patents. But, as we have already said,
whether this view of the law be sound or not, it cannot control the question before us. The inquiry here is in respect to
the legal title, whether it was iu Etheridge or Stone, under the
descriptions of the land in their respective patents. Unless
we can hold that it passed to Etheridge under his patent, the
plaintiff must fail. And we have seen that, without disregarding the plainest terms used in the description of the tract, it is
impossible to arrive at any such conclusion. We deny, altogether, the right of the court in this action to go beyond these
terms, thus explicit and specific, and, under a supposed equity
in favor of Etheridge, arising out of the pre-emption laws, to.
the whole of the southwest quarter, enlarge the description in
the grant, or, more accurately speaking, determine the tract
and quantity of the land granted by this supposed equity instead
of by the description in the patent.
But, independently of the above view, which we think conclusive against the plaintiff, we are not satisfied that there was
any want of power in the surveyor general in making the subdivisions of this section according to the plat, and in conformity
with which the sales of the land in dispute were made.
The first section of the-act of 24th April, 1820, (3 U. S. St.,
p. 566,) after referring to the act of 1805, provides, "that fractional sections containing one hundred and sixty acres or
upwards shall, in like manner, as nearly as practicable, be subdivided into half-quarter sections, under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury,

DECEMBER TERI, 1857.

a77

Gazzam v. Lusee of lam Phill's et al.

but fractional sections containing less -than one hundred and
sixty acres shall'not be divided, but shall be Bold entire." - ,
The Secretary of the Treasury issued his.regulations to the
surveyor general, through the Commissioner of the Land Office,
on the 10th June following, in which he' directed that fractional sections containing more than one hundred and sixty
acres should be divided into half-quarter sections by north and
south or east and west lines, so as to preserve the most compact and convenient forms. The fractional section in question
was divided by a north and south line, according to these instructions. Under them, some latitude of discretion has been
exercised by the surveyor, general in the division of fractional
sections exceeding the quantity mentioned, regard being had
to convenient forms, and to avoid the subdivision of the public
domain into ill-shaped and-unsaleable fractions. The question,
as we have already seen, came again before the Secretary of
the Treasury in the case of Etheridge, before us in 1887, and
the construction first given, and also the practice of the surveyor general under it, confirmed. The surveys of the public
lands under this regulation had then been in operation for
some seventeen years, and has since been continued. Attorney General Butler, upon whose authority the Secretary of the
Treasury confirmed the survey of the fractional section in question, in a well-considered opini'on, observed, that "if Congress
had intended that fractional sections should, at all events, be
divided into half-quarter sections, when their shape admits the
formation of any such subdivision, I think they would have
said so in explicit terms, and that the discretionary power intrusted to the Secretary would have been plainly confined to
the residuary partsof the section; and further, that the clause
in the first section of the act of 1820, concerning fractional sections containing less than one hundred and sixty acres, (which
are not to be divided at all, but sold entire,) is decisive to show
that Congress, which passed the act, did not deem -it indispensable that regular half-quarter sections should, in all practicable
cases, be formed by the surveyors; on the contrary, it shows
,that they preferred a single tract, though containing more than
eighty acres, and though capable of forming a regular halfquarter,'to small inconvenient fractions." We entirely concur
in this construction of the act.
The only difficulty we have had in this case arises from the
circumstance that a different opinion was expressed *by a majority of this court in the case of Brown's Lessee v. Clements,
(8 Howard, p. 650.) That opinion differed from the construction of the act of 1820, given by the head of the land department, and disapproved of the practice'that had grown'up under

878

SUPREME COURT.
Sikbry et al. v. Foote.

it in making the public surveys; and also from the opinion,
subsequently confirming this construction and practice, by the
Secretary of the Treasury and Attorney General, as late as the
year 1837. The decision in Brown v. Clements was made in
the December term, 1844.
It is possible that some rights may be disturbed by refusing
to follow the opinion expressed in that case; but we are satisfied that far less inconvenience will result from this dissent,
than by adhering to a principle which we think uidsound, and
which, in its practical operation, will unsettle the surveys and
subdivisions of fractional sections of the public land, running
through a period of some twenty-eight years. Any one familiar
with the vast tracts of the public domain surveyed and sold,
and tracts surveyed and yet unsold, within the period mentioned, can form some idea of the extent of the disturbance
and confusion that must inevitably flow from an adherence to
any such principle. We cannot, therefore, adopt that decision
or apply its principles in rendering the judgment of the court
in this case.
The judgment of the court below is reversed, and the proceedings remitted to the court, to award a venire, &c.

HORACE C. SILSBY, WASHBURN RACE, ABEL DOWNS, HENRY
I-ENION, AND EDWARD MYNDERSE, APPELLANTS, V. ELIsHA

FOOTE.
Foote's patent declared good, for the combination of machinery used in "the application of the expansive and contracting power of a metallic rod by different
degrees of heat, to open and close a damper which governs the admission of air
into a stove, in which such rod shall be acted upon directly by the heat of the
stove or the fire which it contains."
The award by the Circuit Court of damages for an infringement of the patent
affirmed, by an equal division of this court; but the allowance of interest overruled.
Where a patentee claims more than he is entitled to, his patent may still be good
for what is really his own, provided he enters a disclaimer for the surplus without any unreasonable delay. In this case, the patentee was allowed to recover
damages for an infringement, but not to recover costs, agreeably to the provisions of the act of Congress of the 3d March, 1837.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern distrint of New York, sitting as a court
of equity.
In May, 1842; Foote obtained a patent for an improvement

in regulating the draught or heat of stoves.. The claim which
he made was this:

