DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

511

Ahl v. .Thnson.

tions of these witnesses were taken many years after the instruments of writing were executed, and after these conv~ersations
are supposed to have passed, and the accuracy of their recollection in such a matter can hardly be relied on as to'time or
language; and they, as well as Selden, who is an unlettered
man, and incapable of keeping accounts; and who does not
appear to have had any regular books kept by a clerk, would
most likely have but a'confused Tecolledtion of these conversations, and might, without any evil intention, confound what
had been said in relation to dealings subsequent to the note
with conversations which passed 'at the time it was executed.
And"this view of the subject is strengthened by the fact, that
although Selden states in his bill that he had a settlement with
the company of all accounts at that time standing unsettled between him and the firm, he does not state that nothing was
found due from him on that settlement, nor does he say that
the balance against him, if any, was paid. Hi statement of a
settlement is no doubt true; hut it is evident from the testimony that, upon that settlement, the sum claimed by Lawrence
Myers & Company was-found to be due, and the note and deed
given to secure it.
gVe see no reason, therefore, for disturbing the decision of
the Circuit Court dismissing the bill; and the decree must be
affirmed, with costs.

JOHN i..Amn',

APPELLANT, v. ROSWELL B. JOHNSON.

'Where there was a contract for the sale of a lot of ground, partly on time, and the
vendee entered into possession; and the vendor fdid not formally'de .and the
payment of the balance When due, but merely said he was ready to make a deed
when the money was paid; and after the time of payment had elapsed, the vendee made a tender of the sum due, which the vendor refused to receive; these
and other circumstances show that time was not of the essence of the contract,
and the vendee was entitled to relief upon a bill for a specific performance of the
contract.

THIS was an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Minnesota.
It was a bill filed by Ahl, under the circumstances stated in
the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mfr. Cooper for the appellant, and Mr.
Bradey for the appellee.
The principal point in the case was, whether time was of
the essence of the contract. Mr. Cooper contended that it
was not:

512

SUPREME COURT.
AM v. lohmon.

]EI. Because time in this case was not of the essence of the
contract, as is manifest from the contract itself, as well as from
the conduct of the defendant, in demanding the residue of the
money since the exhibition of his bill by the said complainant,
without ever pretending that he had a right to rescind the contract, or re-enter into possession of the said premises. (See
pages 13, 16, and 17. Taylor v. Longwood, 14 Pet. R., 174,
175; 3 lHor. Pa. ZR., 429, 438; 6 Wheat., 528; Wyson v. Morgan, 7 Ves., 202; Radcliffe v. Warrington, 12 Ves., 326; Irvine
v. Reminton, 2 Harris, 145; Decomp v. Feay, 5 S.and R., 323,
326;. 4 Adol. and Ellis, 599; 3 McLean, 148.)
Mr. Bradley contended that the parties meant to make time
of the essence of the contract: 1st. Because of the stipulations
in respect to the payment of the purchase-money. 2d. Because
of the purposes contemplated in the sale, &c.
IV. It was competent for the parties to make time of the
essence of the contract; and if that intention clearly appears,
a court of equity will not assist him who is in default. (Sugden on Vendors, ch. 8, see. 3, pl. 32 to 36 inclusive; see Note
2 to Hlarrington v. Wheeler, 4 Ves., 689; see cases collected
in note (a) same case, p. 686, American notes; Lloyd v. Collett, 4 Bro. Ch., 469, and American notes.)
• V. The facts that h went into possession and improved the
property, and paid part of the purchase-money, do not relieve
him from his default, if time was of the essence of the contract.
Nor do they aid in arriving at the intent of the parties.
Mr. Justice CLIFFOIRD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Minnesota, in.a suit in chancery to compel a specific performance of a written contract to convey a certain parcel of
land described in the bill of complaint, and. situated in the
village of Stillwater, and county of Washington, in that Territory. The bill was presented to the district judge at chambers, in the first place, where an order was passed for an injunction, and it-was then duly filed in the office of the clerk of the
District Court, and on the same day the writ of injunction was
issued, returnable to the District Court at the May term next
ensuing, and was duly served on the respondent. On the 29th
day of November, 1851, the respondent, by his solicitors, filed
his answer to the bill of complaint, and on the 30th day of
June, 1852, the complainant filed the general replication, and
testimony was subsequently taken by both parties, under a regular commission issued in pursuance of the order of the court.
After the testimony was taken, the temporary injunction was

DECEM3ER TERM, 1857.

518

Ai v. .Tohnson.

dissolved, and the cause was set down for hearing on the 6th
day of October, 1853, upon bill, answer, replication, and proofs;
and after the hearing, the District Court decided in favor of the
complainant,, and entered a final decree against the respondent
for a specific performance of the agreement set forth in the
bill of complaint. An appeal was taken by the respondent to
the Supreme Court of the Territory, and. the Supreme Court,
at the January term, 1856, reversed the decree of the District
Court, and entered a final decree against the complainant,
dismissing the bill, with costs; whereupon, the complainant
appealed to this court.
A brief statement of the pleadings will be sufficient to give
a clear view of the nature of the controversy between the parties to the suit. On the part of the complainant, it is alleged
that the respondent, being seized in fee simple of the parcel
of land described in the bill of complaint, entered into a treaty
with the complainant for the purchase of the same on the 15th
day of June, 1850, for the price of one hundred and ninety
dollars, with interest, to be paid on the 1st day of May, 1851,
and that he agreed to-accept that sum for the consideration;
and that an ag-reement inwriting was entered inio betwveen
them to that effect, and the bill of complaint sets frth the
agreement, which is of that date, and is signed and sealed by
the parties. By that agreement, the respondent eoktracted to
sell and convey the premises by deed of warranty providedthe complainant should pay him the sum of one hundred and
sixty-five dollars on the 1st day of October then next, or the
sum of one hundred and ninety dollars by the 1st day of May,
1851, and the complainant agreed to purchase and pay for the
premises in the manner, and to the amount spAcified. They
also thereby mutually agreed to build a wharf suitable for a
steamboat landing-the complainant on the land contracted for,
and the respondent on his lot adjoining-and it was stipulated,
between them that either party was to be at liberty to commence the building of the wharf on his own lot, but neither
was to be obliged to continue or complete it, unless the other
upon notice did the same in a reasonable time. And the complainant further alleges that the respondent delivered up the
possession of the premises to him about the time of the execution of the agreement, and that he has ever since remained in
the occupation of the same; that he paid the respondent sixty
dollars on the.2d day of July, 1850, in part performance of the
agreement; and the respondent, on the 7th day of September,
1850, endorsed on the agreement thirty dollars and thirty-three
cents more, in part performance of the same, being the amount
awarded to him as damages under a reference between te
VOL. XX.

83

514

SUPREME COURT.
Ahl v. T"ohnson.

parties of a claim he presented against the respondent on account of a misrepresentation made by him, at the time of the
execution of the agreement, in respect to the western boundary of the land; and that since he entered into the possession
of the premises, under the agreement, he has laid out large
sums of money upon the land, in erecting a valuable dwellinghouse, and in making other improvements thereon; and that
he has tendered to the respondent the whole sum of the balance
of the purchase-money, with the interest, and has always been
ready and willing to perform the agreement on his part, according to its terms, upon having a proper title made out, and
a proper conveyance executed to him of the premises therein
described; and that he has demanded the deed of the respondent, and he had hoped that he would specifically perform his
part of the agreement, as in justice and equity he ought to do.
And the bill of complaint charges that the respondent, combining and confederating with persons unknown, refuses to
perform his part of the agreement, and at times falsely pretends that he is entitled to more than the sum stipulated between the parties; and at other times, that the complainant
had not performed his part of the agreement, whereas it is
alleged he has performed his part of the agreement, and that
the respondent is entitled to no more than the balance due
and unpaid of the sum stipulated, and the interest thereon,
and that the whole of that sum, with interest, is now ready
and unproductive in the hands of the complainant; and that
he is seriously embarrassed and injured by reason of not having a good and sufficient title to the premises, which is contrary
to equity; and the complainant prays for discovery and general relief, and that the respondent may be decreed specifically
to perform the agreement upon being paid the balance so due,
with interest, and for an injunction to restrain the respondent
from conveying, transferring, or in any manner disposing of
the title to the premises.
The answer admits that the fee simple title was in the respondent at the time mentioned, and that there was a negotiation between the parties respecting the purchase and sale of
the premises, and that the agreement was made and executed
at the time it bears date, and that the complainant paid the
sum of sixty dollars, as alleged in the bill of complaint, but expressly denies that the respondent delivered the possession of
the same to the complainant, or that he ever consented to his
taking the possession in any manner, as is stated, unless he
should pay the purchase-money, with interest, except and save
for the purpose of building the wharf; and the answer also
denies that any misrepresentation was made respecting the

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
AhlZ v. Johnson.

western boundary of the lot, or that the respondent ever admitted that he made it, as is charged in the bill, or that the
complainant was ever injured by any representation made by
him in that behalf, though the answer admits that the complainant did. express some dissatisfaction with that boundary,
and that for. the purpose of cultivating and sustaining friendly
relations with.him, as a citizen and neighbor, in the same community where they resided, he did agree to refer the matter,
whether he ought to make any deduction from the price agreed,
and that the referees did determine that he should deduct the
sum of thirty dollars and thirty-three cents from the same;
and he further admits, that the complainant has made improvements upon the premises by erecting a dwelling-house thereon,
which has greatly enhanced the value of the same, but he denies
that any improvements were ever made by his consent, or that
the complainant had any right to make them, and 9lso denies
every allegation in the bill that the complainant.was ever ready
and willing to perform his part of the agreement, or that he
has performed or ever pftered to perform the same; On the
contrary, the answer avers the fact to be, that at the time the
purchase-money became due and payable, he called upon the
complainant, and demanded of him,the sum due, and told him
he was ready and willing to execute and deliver to him the deed,
upon being paid the'balance of the money, which he refused
to pay, alleging as an excuse that he had not the means. And
it is further avzerred, that the respondent at different times, afterwards, called upon the complainant, and informed him of
his ability and readiness to deliver the deed upon being so
paid, 'and urged the payment, which was refused on every occasion when the demand was made; and the respondent says
he has suffered great pecuniary embarrassment and injury in
his business, from the refusal of the complainant to perform
his part of the agreement. He admits, however, that the solicitor of the complainant, on or about the -first day of November, 1851, did demand the deed of him, and offered to pay him
a sum of money which the solicitor informed him was the
balance of the sum of one hundred and ninety dollars and interest at seven per cent.; but what sum of money was so offered he does not know, nor whether that money is now ready
in the hands of the complainant and uiiproductive, but he does
not believe such to be the fact; and he denies all manner of
fraud, combination, and confederacy.
There is not much dispute about the facts of the case, whether
we look to the testimony on the one side or the other. The
agreement was admitted in the answer, and was made, as is
alleged in the bill, on the fifteenth day of June, 1850, and it is

516

SUPREME COURT.
Ahdv. Johnson.

fully proved that the complainant shortly after entered into
the possession of the premises, and has continued in the possession of the same to the present time, and there is not an
intimation in the proofs exhibited in the case that the respondent ever demanded the surrender of the premises, or that he
ever manifested any intentiorf to rescind the agreement, except
so far as it arises from his refusal on the first day of November, 1851, to accept the balance remaining unpaid when it was
tendered to him by the solicitor of the complainant. On the
contrary, it appears from his own witness, William H. Morse,
that in the fall of 1851 he requested payment of the balance
then due and unpaid; and when the complainant replied to
his request, that he had a good many debts out, and as soon
as he could collect the money he would settle up with him, he
told the complainant he was ready to make him a deed whenever he was paid the balance due on the lot. The pre6ise time
when this conversation took place does not appear; but the
witness says he was in the employment of the respondent from
the twentieth day of October to the eighteenth day of November, 1851, and tlat within that time he heard the respondent
ask the complainant two or three times for the balance due on
that lot, and it was in some one of those conversations that he
told the complainant that he was ready to make the deed
whenever the balance was paid; and we infer from the testiniony of the witness, though it is not very clearly expressed
in the deposition, that the last interview between the parties,
when that remark was repeated, must have taken place only
a few days before the tender was made by the solicitor of the
complainant. Whether so or not, it is plain, as well from the
language of the request as from that employed by the respondent in reply to the reasons assigned by the complainant, why
he could not make the payment as requested; that the object
of the respondent on the occasion was more to hasten the action of the complainant, and prompt him to an early compliance, than to make any formal demand of the money with the
view to terminate the agreement, or to impair the right of the
complainant to make the payment at a future time. Such, unquestionably, was the impression -that the conversation at the
interview was calculated to produce upon the mind of the complainant; and considering all the circumstances under which
the interview took place, and the relation of the parties to each
other in respect to the matter now in controversy, we think it
was the only reasonable construction which could be put upon
the language used by the respondent, consistent with fair dealing on his part, and rectitude of intention; and that view of
the conversation derives strong confirmation in the fact that

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

517

Ahl v. lhnsonz.

the deed subsequently tendered to the complainant had not
then been prepared, and no allusion was made to a conveyance
on the part of the respondent, except in connection with the
promise of the complainant to settle and make the payment as
soon as he could collect the means.
Nothing further transpired between the parties, in respect to
the subject-matter of the controversy, till after the tender was
made by the solicitor of the complainan. There is not a word
of proof, other than what hds been mentioned, that has the
least tendency to show that the respondent, prior to the tender
made by the complainant, ever formally demanded the payment of the sum due as is alleged in the answer, or ever notified the complainant, or even intimated to him that he should
insist upon a rescission of the agreement, unless the payment
was made at the time, or in the manner specified, or that he
ever expressed so much as a wish that the possession of the
premises should be surrendered up because the payment had
not been made, or in any manner signified to the complainant
that he was unwilling that he should remain in possession, and
continue his occupation and improvement of the same, as he
had done, throughout nearly the whole period after the agreement was made. The proofs are clear and full that the complainant entered into the possession shortly after the agreement
was made, and that he had built a valuable dwelling-hbuse on
the premises, and if the wharf was not completed, he had at
least commenced the building, and made considerable progress in the work, and had otherwise made expenditures in
levelling and grading the grounds, and in various ways had
greatly improved the premises and enhanced their value, and
that all these improvements had been carried forward at large
expense, while the respondent resided in the same village, and
under circumstances which show, bdyond controversy, that he
must have had full knowledge of their progress, and daily opportunities to have manifested his dissent if he had desired to
do so, or if such had been his intention; and yet, he never expressed the slightest dissatisfaction while the works were progressing, or intimated to the complainant, so far as appears,
that in case he failed to make the payment at the time specified
in the agreement, he should claim that the improvements
had been made of his own wrong, and at his own risk, and
without aty liability, .on his part, to allow any compensation
either for the labor, materials, or money expended, in making
them. , On the contrary, he suffered the improvements to go
on, silently acquiescing in the right of the complainant to make
them, until they were nearly completed; and when the tender
was made by the solicitor of the complainant, and he found he

518

SUPREME COURT.
Ahlv. .Tohnon.

could no longer conceal his real position with respect to the
failure to make the payment at the time specified in the agreement, he then declined to accept the money, and refused to
execute the deed.
The tender on the part of the complainant was made by
Frederick R. Bartlett, his solicitor, on the 1st day of November, 1851, at Stillwater, where the land is situated, and in the
office of H. ]L. Morse, the solicitor of the respondent. A-sum
sufficient to pay the whole balance due, with interest, was
formally tendered on the occasion, and the deed demanded,
and the respondent notified that the sum so tendered would
be always in readiness to be paid by the solicitor, at his dwelling-house in Stillwater, where both parties resided. Accor4ing to the testimony of the solicitor, the respondent refused to
accept the money, and got up and went out of the office, and
did not take it, and did not offer to execute a deed; and it
does not appear that he gave any explanation whatever, as to
the grounds of his refusal. His omission to explain why he
refused to accept the money, which, not many days betbre, he
had requested the complainant to pay, indicates an inconsistency in his acts not altogether reconcilable with the idea that
the previous request for payment had been made in good faith,
or at a time and under circumstances when he either anticipated or desired that the complainant might be able to obtain
the money to comply with the request; and it is calculated
also to throw some light upon his subsequent conduct, in
selecting a moment to demand the money and tender the deed
to the complainant, when there is much reason to think that
he must have known that a compliance could not be expected,
on account of the absence of the solicitor, in whose hands the
money was deposited. He was then reminded by the complainant that the money had been deposited with his solicitor,
and informed that he was absent, and told that he must wait
until the solicitor returned. These facts are established by the
testimony of several witnesses introduced by the respondent,
and it is worthy of remark, that this attempt to demand the
money and tender the deed was not made till more than a year
after the bill was filed, and nearly six months after the respondent had formally answered to the suit. It occurred at the
dwelling-house of the complainant on the premises; and it appears, from the testimony of Elijah A. Bissell, that the respondent called upon the complainant at the time mentioned, and
told him that he understood that he, the complainant, had a
sum of money for him on the account of the lot, and that he
was ready to give him a deed of the premises, upon the receipt
of the money which he then demanded, and called the witness

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

519

AM v. rohnon.

to notice the same, and the witness put a private mark on the
deed, which isannexed to his deposition, and makes apart of
the case. According to the testimony of that witness, the
complainant said that the money which he was supposed to
have, had been paid away, but the witness admits that he referred to the money deposited.with his solicitor, as that which
wis designed to pay the respondent.
Three days afterwards the same thing was repeated, when
the complainant was called into the office of the solicitor of the
respondent, unattended by any friend or legal adviser, and a
second demand was made of him for the money, and the same
deed was again tendered. His explanation on this last occasion, as given in the testimony produced by the respondent, is
full and satisfactory, and we refer to it as affording a perfect
solution of the whole transaction. After, the demand was
made, he replied that he could not pay the money, as he had
not enough to pay his taxes; that he had left the money with
hig solicitor, who had once tendered' it to the respondent, and
that he ought then to have taken it; that his solicitor was now
away from home, and the respondent must wait until he returned. Three depositions were taken by the respondent to
establish this last demand, and each of the witnesses proves the
substance of this explanation, and we think it is not of a character to require any extended comment, as the transaction
speaks its own construction. More than a year before that
demand was made, the complainant had tendered the money
to the respondent, and deposited it in the hands of his solicitor,
and notified the respondent that it would always be in readiness to be paid Whenever he would accept it; and he well
knew that he had never asked for it, or m any manner signified his willingness either to receive the money or to execute
the deed. These considerations furnish a complete answer to
any supposed defence upon that ground, wholly irrespective of
any question which might otherwise arise, involving the rectitude of the transaction, or the motives of those who were concerned in making the demand, and consequently remove all
necessity for any farther remarks upon this branch of the case.
Looking to the whole evidence, we think it is satisfactorily
proved that more than half of the consideration was paid in
advance of the time when it fell due; that valuable improvements were made on the premises by the complainant,
under the agreement-' and that the possession of the premises was continued by him after the time elapsed for payment, with the knowledge and approbation of the respondent,
which, in some cases, has been held sufficient of itself to
entitle the party to relief, where, in all other respectsi. it

SUPREME COURT.
Al v. Johnson.

appeared that he was without fault.

(Waters v. Travis, 9

John., 466.)
Suppose it were otherwise; it can make no difference in this
case, as it also appears, and the proof on this point is equally
satisfactory, that the tender of the balance of the purchasemoney was duly made while the complainant was in possession of the premises, under the agreement, and before any act
had been done by'the respondent disaffirming it, or any notice
or intimation given by him that he did not intend to insist
upon its performance. Readiness to perform is distinctly
alleged in the bill of complaint, and is as distinctly denied in
the answer, and therefore it becomes important to inquire how
the fact was, according to the evidence in the case. What
occurred between the parties, in respect to the delay which
had ensued prior to the interview at the dwelling-house of the
complainant, does not appear by the testimony on either side,
and consequently it is reasonable to conclude that, so far as
that period is concerned, it was not the subject of dispute; and
it seems quite probable that it had been arranged by mutual
consent. That such was the fact, though not directly proved,
is clearly inferable, as well from the conduct as the conversation of the parties at the time the interview took place. They
met at the time in a friendly way, and the respondent asked
for the money, and in turn the complainant asked for some
forbearance till he could collect the means; and apparently it
was granted, without objection or any imputation of any prior
remissness. No demand was made of the money, or any intimation given, that if it was not paid immediately, the delay
would be regarded in any manner as impairing the right of the
complainant to make it at any time. It was a mere ordinary
request of a creditor to a debtor, and embraced not.only what
was due on the agreement, but also a balance due on account,
and was not intended as anything more than an offer to settle
and a request for payment, which applied quite as much to the
account as to the agreement; and there is good reason to infer
that the respondent himself had not been ready to execute the
title prior to that time, as he took occasion to inform the complainant that he was ready to make the deed when he was
paid; whereas, if the business had been delayed, contrary to his
wishes, there would have been no necessity for that notification. However that may have been, the circumstances we
think abundantly show that the delay, prior to that time, was
not the subject of complaint; and therefore it is dismissed
from any farther consideration. Time may be, and often is,
of the essence of a contract for the purchase and sale of real
property, so that courts of equity will not interfere in behalf

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
A M v. rohnaon.

of either party. It may be made so by express stipulations of
the parties, of'it may arise by implication from the nature of
the property, or the avowed objects of the seller or purchaser;
and even when it is not so, expressly or impliedly,.if the party
seeking redress has been guilty of gross laches, or has been
inexcusably negligent in performing -the contract on his part,
or if there has, in the mean time, been a material change in the
circumstances affecting the rights, interests, or obligations of
the parties, in all such cases courts of equity will in general
refuse to decree a specific performance, upon the plain ground
that it would be inequitable and unjust." On the other hand,
the general doctrine on this point is expressed in the maxim,
"that time is not of the essence of a contract in equity;" and
except in cases like those already mentioned, or in those of a
kindred character, courts of equity, as a general rule, have
always claimed and exercised the right to decree specific performance of agreements, in respect to the purchase and sale
of real property, in their discretion, and usually to a more liberal extent in favor of purchasers than those who contract to
sell such properties. (Taylor v. Longwood, 14 Pet., 174; 2
Story's Eq. Jur., sec. 771 to 776; Adams Eq., ch. 2, p. 268.) The authorities cited will suffice for the present occasion, as
the cause depends very much upon the facts exhibited by the
parties, and upon certain obvious principles of justice and
equity, universally admitted wherever courts of equity exist.
There was no negligence or delay of performance on the part
of the complainant prior to the tender of the money on the 1st
day of November, 1851, except what is reasonably and satisfactorily accounted fbr on the ground of acquiescence or waiver
on the part of the respondent; and after that time the fault
was entirely his own, and neither the rules of common justice
nor equity will allow him to take advantage of his own wrong.
He ban derive no benefit from his subsequent attempt to tender the deed, as it was then too late to impair the right of the
complainant to insist upon performance; and we attach no
importance whatever to his demand of the money, as he well
knew at the time that the amount was deposited in the hands
of the solicitor of the complainant, and that he could have it
the moment he returned.
It is a case'of clear equity on the part of the complainant.
He has been guilty of no negligence or fraud, and he was admitted into possession of the premises under the agreement,
and suffered to make valuable improvements, without any notice to desist; and now, when he cannot be made whole in any
other way, it is his right to insist that the agreement should

522

SUPREME COURT.
Moreland v. Page.

be performed, and a court of equity is the proper tribunal to
enforce his right.
On the whole case, we are of the opinion that the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Minnesota erred in the order and
decree made in this cause. The decree, therefore, of that court
is reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings,
with directions to enter a decree affirming the decree of the
District Court, with costs.

DAVID MORELAND, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JEREMIAH PAGE.
This court has not jurisdiction, under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act,
to review the judgment of a State court, -where the question involved merely
related to the proper boundary between two tracts of land, although the owners
of both had valid grants from the United States.

THis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Iowa, by a writ of error issued under the twenty-fifth
section of the judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Badger and Mr.Carlislefor the plaintiff
in error, and by Mr.Bradl for the defendant.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
In a court which is not bound by law to ignore all species
of actions, and use only the generic name, this would be called
an action of ejectment. Plaintiff's statement alleges that "he
is owner of certain adjoining quarter sections of land, and that
the northern boundary thereof is a line surveyed by Joel Baily,
as per diagram annexed, and that plaintiff claims the line A B
to be the true line, while defendant claims that the line C D is
the proper line between them. The defendant, by his plea or
answer, denies that A B is the true line, and avers that C D is.
On this issue the parties went to trial without a jury, and the
court decided in favor of plaintiff. But, on appeal to the Supreme Court of Iowa, the judgment below was reversed, and
judgment entered for defendant, establishing the line C D as
the true line between the respective patents, according to a survey made by Edward James, "a copy of a plat of which is on
file in the case, from the original deposited in the office of the
surveyor general."
We have searched this record in vain to discover any authority for this court to assert its jurisdiction to review the judgment of the State court under the power granted by the twenty-

