SUPREME COURT.
Fisher v. Haldeman et al.

dispute exceeds the sum or value of two thousand dollars, exclusive of costs, may be examined, and reversed or affirmed,
in the Supreme Court. But there shall be no reversal for
error in ruling any plea in abatement other than a plea to the
jurisdiction of the court, or such plea to a petition or bill in
equity, as is in the nature of a demurrer.
From this provision in the act of Congress it follows, that
the preliminary proceeding in the District Court of the Territory, being in its nature interlocutory, and designed to abate
the particular remedy by attachment only, and having no application to the plaintiff's right to a recovery of his demand,
or to the jurisdiction of the Territorial court, either as to the
parties or the subject-matter of the controversy, that proceeding comes not within the appellate or revisory power of this
court.
Upon the trial in chief, or upon the merits, there appears to
have been no question made, nor any point reserved upon the
law or the evidence; the record of this trial. presents simply
the finding of the jury, and the judgment of the District Court
upon that finding. The decision of the Supreme Court of the
Territory in sustaining the judgment of the District Court
must therefore be affirmed.
ISAAC M. FISHER, APPELLANT, V. JOHN HALDEMAN, JACOB S.
HALDEMAN, RICHARD J. HALDEMAN, AND ROBERT J. Ross,
EXECUTORS OF JACOB IALDEMAN, DECEASED, AND THOMAS
CHAMBERS, ADMINISTRATOR DE BONIS NON OF THOMIAS DUNCAN, DECEASED.
By the laws of Pennsylvania before the Revolution, a pre-emption right to islands
in the Susquehanna river could not be obtained by settlement.
The courts of that State have so decided, and thi- court adopts their decision.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
The bill was filed by Fisher, a citizen of the State of Delaware, against the appellees, claiming to be the equitable owner
of an island in the Susquehanna river, and alleging that the
appellees had become possessed of the legal title by a series of
frauds. The bill was quite voluminous, occupying upwards
of seventy pages of the printed record, and then there was an
amended bill of thirteen pages more. The substance of it, as
well as the other branches of the case, are stated in the opinion
of the court. In September, 1856, the Circuit Court dismissed
the bill, and the complainant appealed to this court.

DECEM3ER TERM, 1857.

187"

Fiher v. Haldeman et at.

It was argued by Mr. T-sher for the appellant, and by Mr. John
X. Read for the appellee.
The arguments of the respective counsel upon the point on
which the decision of the court turned were as follows:
.Mr. Fisher, in noticing the point that'the islands in the
Delaware and Susquehanna were reserved as the private property of the Penns, said, to meet the allegation of defendant,
that the islands in the rivers were the private property of the
Penns, without any warrant of appiopriation.
Windmill Island, in front of Philadelphia, is noticed. This
island was never surveyed for the Penns, nor for the Commonwealth.
It was applied ftr, July 1, 1849, by one Tatham, under the
act of 1806, and Tatham now holds it. (See Jones v. Tatham,
8 Har., 398-410.)
The island in the Allegheny river, claimed by the parties,
in the case of Hunter v. toward, 10 S. and R., 243, in which
his honor Judge Duncan gave the.opinion of the court, wad
claimed and is now held under the same act of 1806.
There are more than a hundred islands in the various rivers
of Pennsylvania which were never surveyed and returned for
the proprietaries, under their general warrant of October 13,
1760; and all islands not so surveyed and returned before the
4th of July, 1776, were confiscated to the Commonwealth, as
part of the general mass of the proprietary estate, under the
fifth section of the divesting act of 1779.
Islands were treated by the proprietary Government as open
to settlement and improvement long after 1760.
In the year 1770, William Dunn settled on the Great Island
in the West Branch-; and the island, one of the very best in
the river, is held under his settlement right to this day.
- The record of his title from the land office will be submitted.
at the hearing, under the agreement of counsel that all papers
from the land office shall be read on the appeal.
Previous to the year 1760, the proprietaries had granted
many islands in the Susquehanna river on common warrants
and common terms. Copies of these grants and the survey
on them are in the record.
SETTLEMENT RIGHT.-A first settler holds his allowance of
land, 800 acres, against the proprietaries, the Commonwealth,
and all subsequent settlers and warrantees. (Gilday v. Watson, 2 S. and R., 410.)
The actual settler has always been a favorite with the courts
and Legislature of Pennsylvania. (Emory v. Spencer, 11 Harris, 271.)

SUPREME COURT.
F sher v. .Haldmanet al.

Before the Revolution, a settler was entitled to take and hold
800 acres against proprietaries, warrantees, and other settlers.
It was an actual, personal resident settlement, with a manifest
intention of making it a place of abode, and the means of supporting a family, and continued from time to time, unless interrupted by the enemy. (Bonnet v. Devebaugh, 3 Binney,
184.)
The usage of the land office bound the proprietaries to grant
the land to actual settlers on the usual and common terms;
and should the proprietaries refuse to make the grant, chancery
would enforce it. (Ibid.)
The consent of the proprietaries, in whatever way shown,
was sufficient to vest an equitable title in a settler, which the
courts would protect. (Sergeant's Land Law of Pennsylvania, 37.)
Mr. Bead for the appellees:
The civil law which has pervaded continental Europe, and
which took its rise in a country were there was a tideless sea,
recognised all rivers as navigable which were really so; and
this liberal view was adopted by the founder of Pennsylvania,
whose province was intersected by large and valuable streams,
some of which are a mile in breadth. This gave to the proprietary the ownership of all the larger streams of the Corn•monwea]th, the riparian owner coming but to the low-water
mark. The river includes what is in th~e river, whether above
the water or under it. (Carson v. Blazer, 2 Binn., 473; Fisher
v. Carter, 1 Wallace, jr., 70.)
This policy was early developed in the instructions given
by William Penn, before he left England, to three commissioners for the settling of the colony, in which he said: "Let
no islands be disposed of to anybody, but let things remain
as they were, in that respect, till T come." (Hazard's An., 530.)
And in after-times the proprietaries appropriated them to their
own use by special warrants. Thus, from the first settlement
of the country, these islands were withdrawn from appropriation.
(1 Wallace, jr., 70.)
In Carson v. Blazer, 2 Binn, 477, decided on 2d June, 1810,
Chief Justice Tilghman said: "But the common-law principle
concerning rivers, even if extended to America, would not
apply to such a river as the Susquehanna, which is a mile wide,
and runs several hundred miles through a rich country, and
which is navigable and is actually navigated by large boats.
If such a river had existmd in England, no such law would ever
have been applied to it. Their streams, in which the tide does
not ebb and flow, are smnall.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

189

.Fherv. HaNeman et at.

"But there is another objection to the adoption of this principle. The common law gives to each proprietor one-halfof
the river adjoining his shore; and if this doctrine is applied to
the Susquehanna, every owner of the bank must own all the
islands nearest to that bank--a rght never contendedfor.
"The iommon-law principle is, in fact, that the owners of
the banks have no right to the water of navigable rivers. Now,
the Susquehanna is a navigable river, and therefore the owners
of its banks have no such right. It is said, however, that some
of the cases assert, that by navigable rivers are meant rivers in
which there is no flow or reflow of the tide. This definition
may be very proper in England, where there is no river of considerable importance as to navigation, which has not a flow of
the tide; but it would be highly unreasonable when applied
to our larger rivers, such as the Ohio, Allegheny, Delaware,
Schuylkill, or Susquehanna and its branches."
rilliam Penn, the proprietary and Governor of Pennsylvania in 1683, in speaking of the new city of Philadelphia,
uses this emphatic language:
"The situation is a neck of land, and lieth between two navigable rivers, Delaware and Schuylkill, whereby it bath two
fronts on the water-each a mile-and two from river to river.
Delaware is a glorious river; but Schuylkill being a hundred
miles boatable above the falls, and its course northeast towards
the fountain of Susquehanna, that tends to the heart of the
province, and both sides our own, it is like to be a great part
of the settlement of this age." (Lowber's Ordinances of the
City of Philadelphia, p. 289.)
In Hunter v. Howard, 10 Sergeant and Rawle, 245, decided
on 26th September, 1823, the opinion of the court, consisting
of Judges Gibson and Duncan, was delivered by Judg e Duncan, who had argued the case of Carson v. Blazer. Te court
say, "Islands in the great rivers of Pennsylvania, under the
provincial Government, were never the subjects of appropriation,
either by office right or settlement. The proprietaries appropriated them to their own use by special warrants. This, from the
consideration of the supposed superior nature, either from the
quality of the soil, or the benefit of fisheries. The State has
pursued the same poliy. When the land office was opened, on
the 8th April, 1785, for the sale of the residue of the waste
lands, shortly before purchased from the natives by the State,
it is provided, ' That all islands within the bed of the river Susquehanna, and of the east and west branches thereof, and of
the rivers Ohio and Allegheny (and Delaware,') are excepted
and reserved. And the said islands may be sold by special
order of the President or Vice President, in council, concerning

SUPREME CO1URT.
Fisherv. Haldeman el al.

each of them, by public sale or otherwise, for the best prices that
can be gotten-for the same (islands,) and all occupancy, and every
survey, claim, or pretence, for holding the same islands by any other
title, shall be utterly void."
(See 13th sec. act 8th April, 1785;
2 Smith's Laws of Pennsylvania, p. 822.)
"Thus," say the court, "from the first settlement of the
country, we see these islands were withdrawn from appropriation at the general prices of other land, but each was.to be
sold as an individual would sell his own land, for the best
prices. This act may be called the Magna Charta,the foundation of all titles to lands in that purchase."
"It has been modified with respect to islands; but still the
Legislature kept in view the gale of the islands at a full and
fair price, by the act of 6th March, 1793, (3 Smith's Laws, p.
93,) directing the sale of certain islands in the river Susquehanna. This act gave a pre-emption right to improvers for
three years, directed the board of property to ascertain the just
value, provided that the lowest price to be fixed by them shall
not be less than eight dollars per acre. Then came the act of
27th January, 1806, (4 Smith's Laws, p. 206,) which gives rise
to the present controversy, directing the sale of islands in the
rivers Delaware, Ohio, and Allegheny. This act gives the improver the right of pre-emption for three years, and makes
special provision how the value shall be ascertained: the officers of the land office shall appoint, on an application made for
an island, three disinterested men, who shall value the same
on their oaths, and shall certify the value to the secretary of
the land office, who shall thereupon issue a warrant to such
applicant, &c. The act declares that the pre-emption right
shall be vested in the actual settler or improver for the term of
three years; and that, after the expiration of that time, it shall
be lawful for the Commonwealth to grant such improved island
to the first who shall apply fbr the same, subject to the regulations and provisions contained in the act."
In Shrunk v. Schuylkill Navigation Company, 14 Sergeant
and Rawle, p. 71, decided on April 10th, 1826, after argument
by the ablest counsel of the day, Chief Justice Tilghman said,
(p. 79,) after enumerating the principal rivers of the State,
"Now, with us, it has never been supposed, from the earliest
times to the present moment, that the owners of land on the
bank had the right of property in the soil to the middle of the
river in front of their land; because if they had, they would
have a right to the islands also, contrary to universal opinion
and practice. These islands have never been open to applicants
under the common terms of office, either under the proprietary or
State Government, but have always been sold on special contract, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

191

Fisher v. ,Haldeman et al.

for hig er prices than common; whereas, the lands on the banks
of rivers have always been open to the public, on the usual
terms, and at the usual prices. For a particular account of the"
manner in which islands have been granted, I refer to the case
of Hupter v. Howard, 10 Scrgeant and Rawle, 243.
"As for the soil over which our great rivdrs flow, it has never
been granted to any one, either by William Penn or his successors, or the State Government."
In this very case, on the common-law side of the Circuit
Court., reported in 1 Wallace, jr., Rep.,, p. 69, under the name
of Fisher v. Carter, the late Judge Baldwin; one of the very
ablest land lawyers in the State, held, on the 8th November,
1843, that at no time in the history of Pennsylvania, neither
before October 13th, 1760, nor since, have islands in her great
rivers been open to settlement on the same terms with fast land
generally. They could- be settled only on agreed terms.
The case is worthy of attentive perusal, as all the evidence
contained in the present record, with the exception of some
immaterial matters, was before the court, passed upon by them,
and would have been .settled by the jury definitively, except
that the plaintiff suffered a ncnsuit. Judge Baldwin's tribute
to Chief Justice Tilghman is peculiarly just and appropriate.
(Page 83.)
T rr. -Read then referred to and commented upon the following cases-Johns v. Davidson, 4 Harris, 512, decided in 1851;
Jones v. Tatham, 8 Harris, 398, decided in April, 1853; Sergeant's Land Laws of Pennsylvania, 193, 194; Rundle v. Delaware and Raritan Canal Company, 14 How., 80; 1 Wallace,
jr., 274--and then traced the title of the appellees from 1760
down to the present time.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant filed his bill in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, claiming to. be
the equitable owner of an island in the Susquehanna river,
containing about seven hundred acres, and praying that the
respondents may be decreed to surrender to him the possession
of the same, to deliver up their deeds and muniments of title,
and account for the rents, issues, and profits.
In order to ascertain the questions involved in the case, it
will not be necessary to give an abstract of the bill or specify
the allegations of the answer. A brief statement of some of
the admitted facts and charges of the bill will suffice.
It commences the history of the case with the first charter
to and immigration of William Penn, the proprietor of Pennsylvania. But we-do not think it necessary to go farther back

192

SUPREME COURT.
Fi~her v. Haldeman et al.

than the year 1760. In that year, the proprietors, claiming that
the islands in the Susquehanna and other navigable streams
were their private property, had them surveyed and returned
as such.
About the year 1798, the persons under whom complainant
claims were found by the agent of the proprietors in possession
of the island, and claiming a right, from their long occupancy,
to a pre-emption right as settlers. They had occupied parts
of the island as far back as 1749 or 1750, some ten years before
the proprietors had surveyed it; and though not in possession
at that time, had afterwards returned. They were told by the
agent for the Penns, that they had no title, and if they wanted
a legal title they must purchase from the Penns, and that
islands never had been subject to be taken up by settlement,
as the other proprietary lands. These occupants refused or
neglected or were unable to purchase; and about the year
1800, Thomas Duncan purchased from the agents of the Penns.
Finding these occupants on the land, he told them they had
no title; that islands had never been open to pre-emption by
settlement, and that he was the purchaser from the Penns of
the legal title. He demanded the possession of them, offering
to pay them the value of their improvements, and for a release
of their claim. They accordingly released their claim, gave
up their possession, and received a consideration in money
from Mr. Duncan, of about twenty shillings an acre. Mr.
Duncan then took possession, and he and tlose claiming under him have had possession from that day to this, over fifty
years.
In Pennsylvania, occupants or settlers on land are never
considered as holding adversely to the proprietors, or to the
State, their successor. Where the land was subject to preemption in favor of settlers, those who had obtained an equity
by virtue of such a settlement or improvement, had a good
title as against subsequent purchasers. But until they paid
the purchase-money, and obtained- their patent or deed from
the proprietor, no length of possession authorized a presumption of the payment thereof, or of a grant as against the proprietors or State.
In order, therefore, to evade the effect of the release by the
occupants, and the surrender of their possession to Mr. Duncan, who held the admitted legal bill, the bill charges:
1. That Edmund Physic and John R. Coats, the agents of
the Penns, combined and conspired with Thomas Duncan to
defraud the settlers of their title to this island.
2. That this fraud consisted in the assertion that "islands
had never been subject to be appropriated as other proprietary

DEOEMBER TERM, 1857.

193

Fisher v. Haldeman et al.

lands, by settlement or location, but were treated as the private
property of the Penns, and, as such, sold by special contract
only."
8. That the persons in possession, believing such to be the
law, surxendered their possession and .released their claim,
whatever it might be, to Thomas Duncan, for the consideration
of twenty shillings an acre, which was much less than the full
value of the land.
4. That this representation, with regard to the custom or
traditionary law of the province of Pennsylvania, was not true,
and that Mr. Duncan must have known'it to be so; and therefore made a false representation of the law to the settlers.
5. That the falsehood of this representation was not discovered till 1822.
6. That suits were then instituted, in which the judgments
were against the title of plaintiffg, in consequence of erroneous
or unjust decisions of the courts.
Without noticing the objections to this bill on account of
staleness, and the defence that Haldeman is a purchaser foivaluable consideration-without notice, it is plain that the whole
foundation and superstructure of the case rests on this assumption, to wit: "That in 1749, by the law of the land, a preemption right to islands in the Susquehanna river could be
obtained by settlement." If this be not so, the plaintiff's case
falls to the ground, and the numerous other objections to this
bill need not be noticed.
Now, this is a question of fact, depending on the history and
traditions of the province of. Pennsylvapia, of which the decisions of her own courts are the best evidence, and conclusive
on this court. The order of survey of 1760, by which the
islands of the Susquehanna, and this among others, were appropriated to the private use of the proprietors, together with
the manors reserved, is itself prirnafade evidence that the proprietors never considered these islands as open to settlement
as other lands. And this inference is Aully confirmed by the
instructions given by William Penn, before he left England,
to the three commissioners for the settling of the colony, in
which he said: "Let no islands be disposed.of to anybody, but
let things remain as they were, in that-respect, till I come."
(Hazard's An., 530.)
The State of Pennsylvania, by what *as bdiled the "divesting
act," assumed, for a certain 6onsideration, all the proprietary
rights of the Penns over the colony, as distinguished from their
private rights of property, and pursued the same policy which
had been adopted by them as t6 islands in navigable rivers.
The act of 18th April, 1785, orders islands in the new purchase
13
VOL. XX.

194

SUPREME COURT.
Thompson Y. Selden et al.

to be sold for the best prices that can be gotten for the same,
and declares, "all occupancy and every survey, claim, or pretence for holding the same islands by any other title, shall be
utterly void."
The statute thus recognised and continued the rule as it was
found to have existed under the proprietary Government.
By the common law, fresh-water rivers do not come within
the category of navigable rivers, and the riparian owners had
a right to all the islands in the river, "ad medium filum aquer."
But such has never been the law in Pennsylvania: In the
case of Carson v. Blazer, (2 Binney, 473,) this peculiarity of
the traditionary law of Pennsylvania, difilring from the common law of England, was first recognised byjudicial authority.
The late Chief Justice Tilghman, speaking of the proprietary,
says: "No doubt he retained the entire right to the river, and
of everything in the river, in order that he might make such use

of it as would be most conducive to the public benefit." And
again, in Shrunk v. The Schuylkill Nav. Co., (14 S. and R.,
79,) he remarks: "These islands have never been open to applicants under the conimon terms of office, either under the
proprietary or State Government," and refers with approbation
to the case of Hunter v. Howard, (10 S. and R., 243,) which
decides that, "from the first settlement of the country, islands
in the great rivers of Pennsylvania, under the provisional Government, were never subjects of appropriation, either by officerioht or settlement." This doctrine has continued to be recognised as settled law in Pennsylvania for half a century. See
Fisher v. Carter, (1 Wallace, p. 69;) Johns v. Davidson," (4
Harris, 516.) It is treated as such in the learned work of
Judge Sergeant on the Land Laws of Pennsylvania, p. 193.
INor can any case be found in the reports or traditions of the
bar, which varies or contradicts this uniform course of decision.
It is through these sources alone that this court must seek for
a solution of the question; and finding the law so established
by the tribunals of the State, we are bound to acquiesce in and
follow their decisions.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with
costs.
GILBERT L. THOMPSON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM SELDEN, JOHN WITHERS, ROBERT W. LATHAM, AND LAWRENCE P.
BAYNE, DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE FIRM OF SELDEN, WITHERS,

& COMPANY.
The fifteenth section of the judiciary act of 1789 authorizes the Circuit Court, upon
motion and the notice thereof, to require a party to produce books or writings,
&c.- And if a plaintiff shall fail to comply with such order, it shall be lawful for

