DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

57t

Sam~pion et al. v..Peasiee.

That law then becomes the rule of property to govern them,
the same as it governs the inheritance, or any other lawful
disposition made of it. We do not see the reason or propriety
of setting aside the local law in respect to this clasz of property
as to trusts, while it is admitted to regulate every other legal
disposition made of it; and I must theref'ore, for the reasons
given, dissent from the opinion of the majority of the court.

GEORGE R. SAMPSON A D LEwis W. TAPPAN, DOING BUSINESS
UNDER THE STYLE AND FIRM OF -SAMPSON & TAPPAN, PLAINTIFFS
IN ERROR, V. CHARLES H. PEASLEE,: COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS.
By the eighth section of the act of Congress passed 9n the 30th of July, 1846, (9
Stat. at L., 42, 43,) it is declared that if the appraiged value of imports which
have actually been purchased shall exceed by ten per centum or more the value
declared on the entry, then, in addition to the duties imposed by law on the
same, there shall be levied, collected, and paid, a duty of twenty per centum ad
valorem on such appraised value.
The true construction of this section is, that the additional duty 'of twenty per
centum is to be levied only upon the appraised-value, and not upon charges and
commissions added to it.
The day of the sailing of a vessel from a foreign port is the true period of exportation of goods. The Secretary of the Treasury so directed it to be done, as he
bad a right to do by law; and this cpurt concurs with, him in this, as being a
correct exposition of the statute.
.Where an importationwas alleged to be an unit, but divided into two invoices for
the sake of convenience, and entered of different values, each invoice must stand
upon its own footing; and the whole cannot be gveraged, so as to avoid the additional duty which is levied upon one invoice taken by itself.
Where an examination made by the merchant appraiser was such as is usually made
in buying and selling hemp in bales, and was satisfactory to the merchant appraiser, it was not open to the importer to show that he adopted a mode of examination.insufficient to detect fraudulent packing.or diversities in the qualities of
the different parts of the importation.

THis'case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the.district of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

was argaed by _Mr. Griswold and 2Wr. 1?everdy Johnson for
"It
the plaintiffs in error, and 'by Vl!r. Black'(Attorney General)
for the defendant.

Mir. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion pf the court.
This case has been brought to this cofhrt by a writ of error
fiom° the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of
'Massachusetts.

It is an action for money had and ,received. It was sued out
by the plaintiffs agaist the defendant, the collector of customs

SUPREME COURT.
Sampson et aL v. Peaslee.

for the port of Boston, to recover the sum of $14,206.10, with
the interest thereon, which the plaintiffs allege was illegally
exacted from them ,bythe defendant in his official character,
and which was paid by them under protest, as the law permits
that to be done.
The aggreoate amount sued for is made by several items:
First, $1,624.25, being an amount of duty exacted on an
importation of Manilla hemp, over and more than the duty
on the value declared on the entry qf it. Second, the sum of
$12,067.60, for an additional duty of twenty per cent., exacted
under the eighth section of the tariff act of 1846, on the appraised
value of one of the invoices of the hemp; and the sum of $524.25
on another invoice of hemp, which the plaintiffs allege to be a
portion of the same importation.
The plaintiffs recovered in the Circuit Court the sum of
$1,022.75 damages and costs of suit, but being dissatisfied
therewith, and with the rulings of the court, have brought this
writ of error.
The plaintiffs were engaged in trade with China, Mlanilla,
and the East Tndies. They wrote to their agents in 'anilla,
in March, 1854, to purchase, and ship by the ship Telegraph,
four thousand bales of Manilla hemp. The agent bought the
hemp, and began to ship it on board of the Telegraph, from
lighters, on the 23dof June, 1854, the ship then being in the
roadstead, three or four miles from the shore. Each lighter received a permit from the custom-house to be laden and to leave
for the ship. The export duty to which the hemp was liable
became due and payable as each lighter was laden, and before
it could leave for the vessel. But when it is known that the
shippers are in good credit, the export duty is al) owed to remain
unpaid until the whole cargo has been shipped. In this instance,
the whole cargo had been shipped by the 29th June. On the
30th it was all on board of the ship and under deck, and a bill
of lading was signed for two thousand five hundred and twenty
bales of it. On the 1st July, a bill of lading was signed for
the residue of the cargo. On the 1st July, the hatches of the
ship were caulked down by noonday, and in the afternoon the
ship was cleared at the custom-house and ready for sea, but not
having the wind, did not sail; nor did she sail on the 2d July,
the master of the ship having objecter to do so on the Sabbath.
On Monday, the 3d, the ship went to sea.
The cargo was bought with Brown Brothers & Co.'s credit,
and paid for by bills on London. It is a common practice at
Manilla, when the shipment is large, to make of the whole two
or more invoices, it being difficult to negotiate a bill for a whole
cargo when it is of a large amount, as they frequently are, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

578
5

Sampson et al. v. Peawlee.

as this cargo was, the hemp alone having cost over $80,000.
When the cargo is divided into different invoices for the purpose of negotiating the bills by which it has been bought, the
invoices for the separate parts are sent with a bill of lading
with th3 bills intended to be negotiated.
The Telegraph's cargo amounted to more than $95,000. In
conformity with the practice, and for the purpose just mentioned, it was separated into two invoices. One of them contained two thousand five hundred and twenty bales of hemp,
and other merchandise, amounting to $58,772.69; it wag dated
June 80th, with bill of lading of the same date. The other
invoice was for fifteen hundred and twenty-eight bales, and a
quantity of loose hemp, amounting to $36,367.08; it was dated
June 80th, with bill of lading dated July 1.
On Sunday, July 2d, the day that the captain of the Telegraph refused to sail, the overland mail fr-om England arrived
at Manilla; it brought news of the war with Russia. :The consequence was, an immediate and material advatice in the market
price of hemp the next day, July 3d, that being the day when:
the Telegraph went to sea.
Upon the arrival of the Telegraph at Boston, the Ilaintiff'
entered her cargo;, a part fbr consumption, and the residue on
bond, each invoice being separately entered at the custom-house.
It was appraised by the United States appraisers at $11 per
picul, excepting eighty bales of red hemp and two hundred and
eighteen and sixty-two hundredths loose piculs, which were
appraised at $10.50 per picul. The collector, by the directions
of the Secretary of the Treasury, informed the merchant appraiser and the general appraiser that the cargo was to be
appraised with reference to what was its value at Manilla on
the day that the ship sailed, that day'being the pericd of its
exportation to the United States. The act under which that
drection was gi'ven is, "-That in all cases where there is or shall
be imposed any ad valorem rate of duty on any goods, wares,
or merchandise, imported into the United States, it shall be the
duty of the collector, within whose distiict the same shall be
imported or entered, to cause the actual market value or wholesale price thereof at-the period of the exportation to the United
States, in the principal markets of the country from which the
same shall have been imported into the United States, to be
appraised,estimated, and ascertained; and to such value or price
shall be added all costs and charges, except insurance, and including in every case a charge ibr commissions at the usual
rates, as the true value at the port where the same may be entered,
upon which duties sliall be assessed."
It also appears that the appraiser's valuation of the hemp

574

SUPREME COURT.
,Sampson et al. v. Peaslee

exceeded by ten per centum the value declared on the entry of the
2,520 bales, but it did not exceed by ten per centum the value
declared on the entry of the 1,528 bales. Nor did it exceed
by ten per centum the value of the aggregate of the two invoices, constituting, as the plaintiffs claimed, the importation
of 4,000 bales. An additional duty of 20 per centum was assessed on the appraised value of the 2,520 bales, also on the
charges and commissions.
Manilla hemp comes in bales about twenty inches square
by three feet in length, pressed hard together, is covered with
matting, and is bound closely with ratan bands at short distances apart.
The examination of the hemp for appraisement was made in
this wise. Slits were cut in the matting, which -covered the
bales that were examined, so that different parts of the outside
surface of the hemp could be seen, but the ratan bands holding the bales together were not cut. It is said, had they been
cut, the appraisers could have examined the inside of the bales.
The difficulty of binding the bales together again is the reason
given by the appraisers for not cutting the ratan bands.
Though slits were cut in the matting, the principal part of it
was not removed; the slits disclosed only small parts of the
surface of the bales, and no attempt was made to open the
hemp for the purpose of ascertaining its quality beneath the
exterior. In fact, no more than the surface was seen. However, the merchant appraisertestifies that the examination was such
as is usual in buying or selling hemp in bales.
Upon thisstatement of the case, the plaintiffs' counsel contended that the appraisement was illegal and invalid, and insufficient to negative or displace the value declared on the
entry, because the appraisers did not exercise any judgment
or discretion in regard to the period of the exportation of the hemp
to the United States, but merely obeyed the instructions of the
Secretary of the Treasury, to take the date of the sailing of the
vessel as the rule to guide them. And the court was asked to
instruct the jury accordingly. The court refused to do so, but
did instruct them, that if the period so prescribed by the Secretary was the true period of exportation, the objection was
untenable; and did further instruct the jury, that the date of the
sailing of the vessel from the foreign port for her destination in the
United States was the true period of exportation. The plaintiffs excepted to this ruling.
The plaintiffs' counsel then moved the court to instruct the
jury, that, upon the facts proved,.all the hemp imported was to
be taken to be one entire entry at the custom-house, for the purpose of declaring and appraising the value for the levy of duties.

I DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Sampewtk et al. v..Pealee.

The court refused, and did rule and instruct the jury, "that each entry was to be deemed as a separate transactionfor the purpose
of appraiserentand the assessment of duties thereon." To this
ruling the plaintiffs excepted.
Then the plaintiffs offered to prove that hemp was of various
qualities and values. That it was. impossible to determine the
qualities of all the packages by such an examination as was
testified to' by the merchant appraiser. That, for the last three
years or more, much of the Manilla hemp imported has been
"muzzled" in the bale, and that it was impossible to tell
whether it was so or not, without cutting the bands and removing all of the matting,'opening the bale, and examifling the
inside of it. That the outside of the bale sometimes appears
to be and is of good and current quality, while the inside of
it may be filled with refuse or inferior. That it is often so
tangled or "muzzled," as to render the bale from ten to twenty
per centum less valuable than if it were all of the same quality
as the outside of the bale. That, besides being muzzled, there
are usually three or more grades in the same bale, differing in
value from one to three cents per pound. That, in order to
determine the proportion of each, which makes up a bale, it
is necessary to see and compare its contents in the inside of it
with the rest. That it is the custom of the trade to make an
allowance-of from one to three cents per pound on all muzzled
or inferior hemp found on opening the bale after purchase.
But it was admitted that the examination made of the Telegraph's cargo, by the appraisers, was such as is usually made
on buying or selling hemp. Upon this the court ruled, that if
the examination made by the merchant a_"raisewas that usually
made in buying or selling hemp, and had been satisfactory to the
merchant appraiser,it was not open to the plaintiffs to show that he
adopted a mode of examination,for the levy of duties, insufficient to
detect fraudulen!packing or diversities in the qualities of the different
parts of a bale of hemp. To this ruling and instructions the
plaintiffs also excepted.
One other ruling of the court Was given upon the prayer of
the plaintiffs, to. which the defendant excepted. It was this:
that so much of the additional duty of 20 per centum as was
levied upon the charges and commissions, and paid by the plaintifh under protest, was unauthorized by law. This ruling of
the court is a correct interpretation of the eighth section of the
act of July 30th, 1846, 9 Stat. at L., 42, 43.' It declares, if
the appraised,value of imports which have actually been purchased shall exceed by ten per centum or more the value declared on the entry, then, in addition to the duties imposed by law
on the same, there shall be levied, collected, and paid, a duty

576

SUPREME COURT.
Sampson et al. v. Peadee.

of twenty per centum ad valorem on such appraised value. In
other words, .the twenty per centum ad valorem is to be on the
appraised value only, without being assessed upon the charges
and commissions.
We now proceed to the other points in the case to which
the plaintiffs excepted to the rulings of the court.
The first in order is, that the appraisement of the hemp was
illegal and invalid, and insufficient to displace the value declared on the entry, because the appraisers were instructed to
appraise and estimate the value of the hemp as of the 3d day
of July, the day of the sailing of the vessel; whereas they should
have estimated and appraised it at theperiodof actual shipment, or
date of bill of lading. The point is stated as it was made by the
counsel of the plaintiffs in his argument of the case in this court.
But whilst it comprehends one subject of the prayer of the
plaintiffs and the gist of the court's instruction, it omits a part
of the first, which we do not think it immaterial to notice, to
prevent in future the proposition which it involves, as to
the independence of the appraisers of the customs, from being
made again. The court was asked to instruct the jury, that
the appraisement in this instance was invalid and illegal, for
the reason that the appraisers did not exercise their judgment
and discretion in regard to the period of exportation, but that
they obeyed the instructions of the Secretary of the Treasury,
to take the date of the sailing of the vessel as the rule to guide
them. The court refused to give the instruetiion as it was
asked, but did instruct the jury, that if the period so prescribed
by the Secretary was the true period of exportation, the objection was untenable, and that the date of the sailing of
the vessel from the foreign port for her destination in the
United States was the true period of exportation. We concul
in the correctness of the instruction. Besides its having
been made the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury from
time to time to establish rules and regulations, not inconsistent
with the laws of the United States, to secure a faithful appraisal
of all goods and merchandise imported into the United States,
the collectors and other officers of the customs are directed to
,execute .the Secretary's instructions relative to the revenue
laws; and his decision is declared to be binding and conclusive
upon all of them, whenever a difficulty shall arise as to the
true construction of those laws. (Sections 23, 24, Stat. at
Large; 563.)
' The court's ruling, also, that the date of the sailing of the
vessel was the true period of exportation, is correct. The
Secretary's interpretation of the act of the 3d March, 1851, is
in conformity with the letter and spirit of it, and cannot be

DECEMBER TERM , 1857.

.577

Sampson et al. v. Peaslee.

controlled by different interpretations and instructions which
may have been given by his predecessors to the words, "at the
period of the exportation to the United States." Though, as
we have read the circulars of the Secretaries of the Treasury
in respect to those words in the revenue act, as to the time
when duties shall be assessed upon the Value of imports, we
do not perceive any difference in them, which may. not be
readily accounted for by the different acts. to which the instruction or direction to the collector was meant to le applied.
The same remark may be made of the-decisions made by this.
court, whenever it has been necessary for it to determine at
what date duties. should be assessed upon imported merchandise, subject to an ad valorem rate of duty.
SNor have we been able to bring ourselves to the conclsioningeniously put, and ably urged by the plaintiffs' counsel
here-that Congress, in passing the tariff act of March 3, 1851,
meant to use the words "period of exportation". in the sense
in which they had been understood by the Treasury Department in its construction of previous revenue acts, and as that
construction may have been sanctibned hy this court. There
had been uncertainties of opinion and in practice in the Treasury Department, and also in several ports of the United States,
in respect to the time when the dutiable value of imported
goods should be estimated. Some of the collectors made the
estimate at the date of the purchase, whenever that may have
been. Other collectors made their estimate at the date of the
shipment. Mr. Secretary Walker, in his circular of July 6,
1847, meaning to establish a uniform rule,' states the varying
practice, and directs the valuation to be made. "a the date of
the shipment." He says it is the true construction of the law,
long since declared by the Department-, and adopted generally
throughout the Union. He adds, that the proviso of the 16th
section of the det of August 30, 1842, is clear and emphatic
upon the subject, and prescribes the date, with reference, to
which the value is to be estimated, as the period of exportation
to the United States. But Mr. Secretary Meredith, three years
afterwards, in his .circular of the 5th July, 1850, eight months
before the act of the 3d March, 1851, was passed, observes,
that the appraisers had been restrained in the discharge of their
duties by the result of frequent appeals from their decisions.
And in order to secure a just, faithful, and impartial appraisal
of all goods, wares, and merchandise, imported into the United
States, he declares1. That the period of the exportation of merchandise is the
tune at which the value. of any article is to'be fixed by the appraisers.
VOL. XX.
37

578

SUPREME COURT.
Sampson et al. v. Peaslee.

2. That in ordinary cases the date of the bill of lading may be
regarded as the "period of exportation."
This court decided, in the cases Greely v. Howard, 10 How.,
225, and in Maxwell v. Griswold, 10 How., 242, in the year
1850, before the act of the 3d March, 1851, had passed, that
under the sixteenth and seventeenth sections of the tariff act
of 30th August, 1842, 5 Stat. at L., 563, the value of inerchan
dise at the time of procurement is to be ascertained, not its value
at the time of exportation. Congress, with these differences in
view, and particularly in consequence of the decision of this
court in the eases just before cited, passed the act of March 3d,
1851. This court in 1855, in Stairs et al. v. Peaslee, 18th
Howard, 521, 524, 525, in considering the act, uses this language, which is decisive of the time when the value of goods
subject to an ad valorem duty is to be estimated: "The language of this act of Congress is general, and embraces all importations of goods that are subject to an ad valorem duty, and
directs that their value shall be estimated and ascertained by
the wholesale price at the period of exportation to the United
States in the principal markets of the country from which they
are imported. The time and the place to which the appraisers
are required to look when making their appraisement are both
distinctly specified in the law, the time being the period of exportation, and the place the country from which they we'e
imported into the United States. It makes no reference to
their value in the country of production or the time of purchase. And as there is no ambiguity in the language of the
act, and it embraces all goods subject to an ad valorem duty,
the court would hardly be justified in giving a construction to
it narrower than its words fairly import." Though this extract was written with reference to the first point certified in
that case, which was, whether the act of the 3d March, 1851,
repealed so much of all former laws as provided that merchandise, when imported from a country other than that of production or manufacture, should be appraised at the market value
of similar articles at the principal markets of the country of
production and manufacture "at the period of the exportation
to the -United States," the court adds, that the law, taken by
itself, will admit of but one construction; and that is, the appraisement must be made by the value of the goods in the
principal markets of the country from which they are exported,
at the time of such exportation to the United States."
The case of Stairs v. Peaslee, considered in connection with
what this court had decided under the revenue acts in Greely
v. Howard, and in Maxwell v. Griswold, 10 How., 242, shows,
whatever may have been the practice in computing the time

DECEMB3ER TERM, 1857.

579

Sampson et al. v. Peaslee.

for the assessment^ of -duties, that this court viewed the act
of the 3d March, 1851, as having fixed the rule to be the time
or date of the exportation, as that might be shown by the day
of the vessel's sailing from the foreign port to the United
States. Indeed, from the phraseology of the act, without reference to preceding acts upon the same subject, or what had been
their construction, the same conclusion must be reached.
The word period has its etymological meaning, but it also
has a distinctive signification according to the subject with
which it may be used in connection. It may mean any portion
of complete time, from a thousand years, or less, to the period
of a day; and when used to designate an act to be done, or to
be begun, though its completion may take an uncertain time,
as, for instance, the act of exportation, it must mean the day
on which the exportation commences, or it would be an unmeaning and useless word in its connection in the statute..
The ruling of the. court upon the first prayer of the plaintiffs
is not subject to-the exception taken. We proceed to the second exception taken by the counsel of
the plaintiffs to the ruling of the court upon their prayer. It
was, that the court would instruct the jury, upon the facts
proved, that all the hemp imported by the plintiffs was to be
taken to be one entire entry, for the purpose of declaring and
appraising the value for the levy of duties.
iL'o facts in the case were proved, upon which such an instruction could have been given. The proof is, that the plaintiffs were purchasers in Manilla of four thousand bales of hemp,
which were put by them into two invoices for their own convenien ce; one containing two thousand five hundred and twenty
bales, the other one thousand five hundred and twenty, and a
quantity of loose hemp; the first valued at $58,772.69, the
second at $86,367.08, for each of which a separate bill of lading
was taken. The plaintiffs entered them separately at the custom-house, and they were separately appraised without any
objection at the time from the defendant. Bht it turned out, upon
the appraisement, that the appraised value of the first exceeded
by ten per centum the value of it declared upon the entry,
which made it liable, under the eighth section of the act of the
80th July, 1846, to the additional duty of twenty per centum
ad valorem on the appraised value. But the appraisement of
the second invoice of one thousand five hundred and twentyeight bales did not exceed by ten percentum the value declared
on the entry of it; nor did the appraised value of the two invoices, constituting the importation of four thousand bales,
exceed by ten per centum the aggregate of their separate values
declared in the entries of them.

580

SUPREME COURT.
,Sampson et al. v. Peaslee

:Now, the plaintiffs seek to be released from the twenty per
cent. additional upon the appraised value of the first invoice, because the second invoice was not subject to it, and because the
aggregate of the values of both, as declared upon the entries of
them, were not exceeded by ten per cent. upon the appraisement.
Upon such a state of facts, the court rightly instructed the
jur , that each invoice and entry was to be deemed and treated
as a separate transaction for appraisement, and for the assessment of duties.
An importer of merchandise is bound by the law to make
his entry at the custom-house according to his invoice, either
by himself, the consignee, or their agent, and not otherwise
than by invoice verified by oath, unless it shall be done conditionally, either under the tenth section of the act of March 1st,
1823, or under the second section of the same act, permitting entries to be made of imported merchandise, subject to ad valorem
duties upon appraisement without invoice. (3 Stat. at L., 729.)
When an entry has been made, it is conclusive upon the
importer as to the contents, and declared value of the invoice;
and for all of those consequences which the law may impose
upon the examination and appraisement of it, and for any deficiency or non-compliance with the revenue laws regulating the
entries of imported merchandise, or for any violation or substantial departure from directions which may have been given
by the Secretary of the Treasury for the entry and appraisement of foreign goods, and for the collection of duties upon
the same. See general regulations under United States revenue laws, by Mr. Secretary Guthrie, of February 1, 1857.
As to the third exception taken by the plaintiffs to the rulings
of the court, we think it was right in telling the jury, that if
the examination of the hemp made by the merchant appraiser
was such as is usually made in buying and selling the article,
and was satisfactory to the merchant appraiser, it was not open
to the plaintiffs to show that he adopted a mode of examination insufficient to detect fraudulent packing or diversities in
the qualities of the different parts of the bales of hemp.
The importance of this case in respect to the collection of
the revenue under the act of the 3d March, 1851, and under
the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury upon it, have
induced us to give to the different points in the case our mature consideration, and we are of the opinion that the judgment of the Circuit Court should be affirmed.
It is ordered accordingly, and that the appellants shall pay
the costs which have been incurred in the prosecution of their
writ of error.
Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.

