264

SUPREME COURT.
Spencer v. Lapsey.

court that the omission to file the transcript within the first
six days was not owing to any fault or negligence on his part,
the court has always allowed him to file it at the same term,
and docket the appeal for trial, without putting him to the expense and delay of another appeal.
It follows, from what we have said, that although the case
before us must be docketed and dismissed, yet this will not
prevent the United States from filing a transcript at the present term, and docketing the case for argument, if they can
show that the delay has not arisen from any fault or negligence on their part. And if they fail to do so, they may yet
take another appeal at any time within five years, and bring
here the decree of the District Court for examination and revision. And if the appellee, after the case is docketed and
dismissed, proceeds upon the decree of the District Court, and
obtains a patent for the land, his title will still be subject to
the decision of this court, if the Government shall hereafter
brino' up the case within the time limited by law.
Ve have deemed it proper on this occasion to enter into
this full explanation of the rule of court referred to, on account of the multitude of appeals which must unavoidably
come up from the District Courts of California, and -which, in
some shape or other, may be brought before this court, upon
motions to dismiss.

ELIPHAS SPENCER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOHN W.

LAPSLEY.

The judge of the District court of the United States in Texas had power to order
the record of a suit in which he was interested to be transmitted to the Circuit
Court of the United States in Louisiana.
A plea in abatement, filed in connection with pleas in bar, was irregular; and the
refusal oi the court below to allow the plea to be filed is not subject to the review of this court.
A contract for the sale of eleven leagues of land in Texas, issued before the
revolution, and subsequently located within the colonizing grant of Austin and
Williams, with their consent, and certified by the Secretary of State, was good
without the signature of the Governor.
So far as the land was within the colonizing grant of Robertson, his consent was
not necessary, the term of his grant having expired.
Where no organization of a colonial grant had taken place by the introduction of
settlerg, the land not occupied was open for public sale, with the consent of the
empresario, and the alcalde was a proper person to put the purchaser in possession.
That the survey was made before the order of survey was directed to the surveyor,
was not fatal to the grant. Any preliminary defects were cured by the patent.
The fairness of the grant cannot be investigated at law, at the instance of a third
party.
A power of attorney, authenticated before a regidor, proved by the handwriting
of the regidor and the assisting witnesses, held sufficient.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
,Spencer v. .Lapsey.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
It was an action of trespass to try title, brought by Lapsley
against Spencer, originating in the District Court of the United
States for Texas, which sat at Galveston, thence removed to
the District Court which sat at Austin, and thence removed
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The narrative of the facts of the case, and of the points which
successively arose upon the trial, is fully given in the opinion
of the court; and the statement of the points which were made
by the counsel who argued the case in this ciurt, renders it
unnecessary for the reporter to repeat them.
It was argued by 31r. Benjarnin for the plaintiff in error, and
j.Ar. Haqhes for the defendant, upon which side there was also
a brief by 31f'. Hale.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error, Lapsley, commenced this suit in
January, 1851, in the District Court of the United States for
Texas, against the plaintiff in error, Spencer, to recover a parcel of land, and damages for the ouster he had suffeied. At
the April term of the court, 1851, the defendant appeared and
demurred to the petition, assigning-lst. The desciription of
the premises is insufficient. 2d. The citizenship of the parties
is not specifically averred. 3d. There is no endorsement on
the petition, as thie statutes of Texas require.
With this demurrer, an answer containing pleas of not guilty,
the statute of limitations, and that the plaintiff claims under
a grant with conditions, and that the grant is fraudulent, and
the conditions were not performed, was filed. Subsequently
to the act of Congress of 3d March, 1851, (9 Stat. -at L., ch. 82,
sec. 6, p. 618,) this cause was transferred to the District Court
of Texas, held at Austin. No order of the court appears for
this transfer, and it is presumed. it was done by consent. The
defendants appeared to the cause at Austin, by attorney. At
the November term of that court, in 1854, the following order
was made by the District Court:
"This day came the plaintiff aforesaid, by his attorney, and
on motion of said plaintiff, by his attorney, the judge now presiding states and enters upon the record. that he ha. an interest
with the plfintiff in the land in controversy in this suit, which,'
in his opinion, renders it improper for him to sit in the trial
of the same; and, thereupon, the court upon further motion
orders, because there is no Circuit Courtof the United States

266

SUPREME COURT.

1Z$pencer

v. Lapaley.

in this State, that an authenticated copy of this order, and of
all the record and proceedings in this action, be forthwith certified to the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern
district of the State of Louisiana., at New Orleans, that court
being the most convenient of the United States Circuit Courts
in adjoining States."
The authority to make this order is supposed to be derived
from the act of Congress of the 3d March, 1821, (3 Stat. at L.,
ch. 51, p. 643,) which provides: "That in all suits and actions
in any District Court of the United States, in which it shall
appear that the judge of such court is any ways concerned in
interest, or has been of counsel for either party, or is so related
to, or connected with, either party, as to render it improper for
him, in his opinion, to sit on the trial of such suit or action, it
shall be the duty of such judge, on application of either party,
to cause the fact to be entered on the records of the court." He
was then required to order an authenticated copy of the record
to be certified to the most convenient Circuit Court of an adjacent State; which Circuit Court shall, upon such record being
filed with the clerk thereof, "take cognizance thereof, in the
like manner as if such suit or action had been originally commenced in that court, and shall proceed to hear and determine
the same accordingly; and the jurisdiction of such Circuit
Court shall extend to all such cases, so removed, as were cognizable in the District Court from which the same was removed."
The record was filed in the Circuit Court in Louisiana, in
April, 1855, and the cause was continued until the April term
of 1856, before it came to trial. In April, 1856, the defendant.
moved to dismiss the cause: 1st. Because the record shows
that the judge of the District Court for Texas, before the suit
was brought, had an interest in the land in dispute. 2d. Said
interest disqualified said judge from making an order in the
cause. 3d. That his orders were void. 4th. That the Circuit
Court at New Orleans had no jurisdiction.
It is quite unimportant to consider whether a judge can
make any, and if any, what orders, in a suit in which he is interested. This was much discussed in the Grand Junction
Canal Company v. Dimes, 12 Beav., 63; 3 H. L. Ca., 759. The
act of Congress proceeds upon an acknowledgment of the
maxim, "that a man should not be a judge in his own cause,"
and requires a judge found in that predicament, on the motion
of either party, to make an order for the removal of the cause
to another competent jurisdiction. No other order in this
cause was made by the district judge, and he was not authorized to act under the statute, except on motion, and when the
motion was made the order was entered. The entry on the

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Spencer v. Lapsley.

record by the judge imports verity, and his order authorized
the Circuit Court at New Orleans to take cognizance of the
cause.
The defendant obtained leave of the Circuit Court to amend
his answer the third term after the transfer. In the amendment, after adding to his pleas in bar of the action, he pleaded
that the apparent legal title was vested in the plaintiff by collusion between him and three other persons, who were citizens
of Texas, (one of whom was the judge of the District Court,) to
litigate and establish a fraudulent grant in that court, and that
these persons were the only persons interested in the said
grant. In so far as this statement contained any defence to
the action, it was comprehended in pleas already on file. As
a plea in abatement of the suit, it was open to the objections
that it was pleaded, without an affidavit, five years after pleas
in bar bad been filed, and which were undisposed of, and that
it was filed, in connection with other matter, in bar. Such
pleading was contrary to tre rule, and practice of the courts,
and was properly disallowed. (Shepperd v. Graves, 14 How.,
505; Bailey v. Dozier, 6 How., 23; Drake v. Brander, 8 Tex.,
351; Dallam - , 590.)
The defendant then applied for leave to file a formal plea in
abatement, containing the same allegations as those before
stated; and with this plea the defendant propounded thirtyone interrogatories to the plaintiff, to obtain evidence for its
support; aud also filed an affidavit, to the effect that he had
not discovered the facts pleaded at the time his plea of the
general issue had been filed in 1851. Bit the defendant made
no offer to withdraw his pleas in bar; nor did the affidavit
show when or in what manner his discovery was made; nor
why the application to file the plea and obtain the evidence
had not been made at an earlier date; nor why it was delayed
till a time when any allowance of it might operate a continuance, when the case had already been pending for a year in
the Circuit Court. The Circuit Court denied lie application.
This court has decided that such applications are addressed to
the judicial discretion of the inferior court, and its decision is
mot open for revision here. It has decided that the refusal of
an inferior court to allow a plea to be amended, or a new plea
to be filed, or to grant a new trial or*a continuance, or to reinstate a cause which has been legally dismissed, cannot be
questioned for error in this court. (Marine Ins. Co. of Alexandria v. Hodgson, 6 Cr., 206; Sims v. Hundley, 6 Howard

S. C. R., 1.)
A fortnight after these dilatory motions had been disposed
of, the cause was submitted to the Circuit Court on its merits.

S1UPREME COURT.
Spencer v. Layey.

The title of the plaintiff consists of a petition of Thomas De
La Vega and two other persons, addressed to the Government
of Coahuila and Texas, the 14th June, 1830, each to purchase
eleven leagues of vacant lands, under the twenty-fourth section
of the colonization law of Mexico. The Governor responded
to the petition, that "he concedes in sale to each one of the
petitioners the eleven leagues they solicit;" to be selected after
the commissioner of the Supreme General Government shah
have reserved a sufficiency of lauds to meet the debt of the
State. Ie orders the constitutional alcalde of the municipality
to which the lands selected may belong, to give the possession
of the leagues, to settle the class of the lands, so as to adjust
the price, and 'to despatch the corresponding title in form. No
further proceedings took place until May, 1832, upon this contract. At that date, one of the parties, for himself and the
others, represented to the Governor the facts contained, in his
former memorial, and the executive order; that no impediment
existed to the fulfilment of the contract, and that it might happen the parties would select lands within an empresario contract, and therefore prayed that either the alcalde before whom
they might present themselves, or in case that he'could not do
so, that the commissioner of surveys might peiform the acts
requisite to the delivery of possession and the perfection of
the title.
The Governor thereupon nominated the commissioner for
the distribution of lands in the empresa to which the lands
selected might belong, to perform the acts necessary; but, if
they did not belong to an empresa, that the first alcalde of the
respective municipality, or that most convenient, might act, so
that, according to law and the instructions, possession might
be given.
In the following year, (3d October, 1833,) Samuel M. Williams, professing to be attorney in fact for La Vega, presented
authenticated copies of the petitions and orders before mentioned to the alcalde of the municipality of San Felipe de
Austin, and solicited the location of his contract of purchase
upon lands at a designated point on the Brazos river, within
the colony of Austin and Williams, if they would consent, and
referred to the order of the 2d May, 1832, as -conferring an
authority for that purpose. The alcalde granted the prayer of
the petitioner, and directed that the consent of the empresarios
should be obtained, and that the surveyor of the colony should
survey the lands at the place designated, and should classify
them so that theprice might be settled. The empresario, Williams, consented for himself and as attorney for his partner,
and the surveyor returned the order of survey with a figurative

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
pencer v. Lapsky.

plan and notes of survey of the eleven. leagues. On the 4th
October, 1833, the constitutional alcalde despatched the title in
form, which contains a recital of the petitions, orders, consents,
and survey, the authority. conferred, the price settled, and the
investiture of the possession and property. The plaintifi on
the trial, connected himself with this grant by conveyances
which had been recorded, and as to which no question arose,
except in reference to a power of attorney from La Vega to
Williams, under which a deed had been executed in 1840 to
'Renard and Williams, in trust for Sophia St. John.
The defendant produced no documentary evidence of title,
and relied on a possession of some two or three years.
Nqo exception was taken in the Circuit Court to the introduction of the various public acts which constitute the evidence of a title in La Vega; nor was there exception to the
charge of the court which pronounced the evidence adduced
of its authenticity, competent. It may be proper to state that
the title, in the Mexican language, was authenticated from the
land office of Texas, and that the translation in the amended
record in this court was used in the Circuit Court for convenience only. But the sufficiency of those papers to vest a title
in the grantee, and their supposed want of conformity to the
laws of Coahuila and Texas, were much debated, and the
opinion of the court upon .them has been properly reserved for
the examination of this court.
The power of the Governor of those States to sell lands to
Mexicans, not exceeding eleven leagues in quantity, is unquestionable; and the petition and order in 1830, in connection
with the petition and order of May, 1832, are evidence of such
a contract. The proceedings in 1830 are sufficiently identified
by the statements and recitals of the papers dated in 1882,
even if we were to hold that the absence of the Governor's
signature to the first order is a fatal defect. But that petition
and the executive order are certified by the Secretary of State
as official documents; they were so treated by the Governor
and the constitutional alcalde, and th6 petitioners, in the subsequent proceedings. The Secretary of State is designated in
the Constitution of the confederate States to authenticate "all
laws, decrees, orders, regulations, and instructions, circulated
among the towns, or directed by the Governor to a particular
corporation 6r person," and that without this requisite they
shall not be obeyed or be productive of faith. At the present
term of this court, we have decided that a decree not signed by
the judge, but which is found in the record, and is certified by
the clerk, and which has been executed by the parties, cannot
be collaterally impeached for the want of the signature. (Se.

270

SUPREME COURT.
Spencer v. Lapsley.

combe v. Steele, supra.) And the courts in Texas have decided that titles in form, executed without the requisite number
of witnesses, are still valid, though there is a special requirement on the subject of the number of the witnesses in the law.
(14 Texas R., 189.) We do not feel authorized to deny faith
to the act certified by the Secretary of State as an official
paper, nor can we assume that the order certified did not receive the executive sanction.
The Circuit Court instructed the jury, "that the court was
required to take notice of the organization of the States of
Coahuila and Texas, and of the officers who were competent
to perform the duties imposed in the decree of the Governor,
upon the petition of La Vega.
The court charged, that there was no such organization of
the colonies of Robertson, or of Austin and WVilliams, as to
render it indispensable for the grantee to apply to a commissioner for distribution to perflet the grant of the Governor;
that those colonies were not empresas in the sense in which
that term ,vas used in that decree; and that having reference
to the location of the land and the situation of the parties, as
is shown by the evidence, the alcalde of Austin was a proper
officer for taking the measures requisite for the perfection of
the grant." The land described in the title was situated within
the limits of both the colonies before mentioned. The colonizaion contract of Robertson was granted in 1825; its execution was suspended in .1830; and it expired, by.limitation,
in 1831. and was not again renewed until 1834. The selection
of the lands was made after it had expired, and before it was
renewed. The history of this empresa has been judicially ascertained by the Supreme Court of Texas; and they have also
decided that lands in a colony thus situated might be sold
without reference to the empresario in such a contract. (Houston v. Robertson, 2 Texas, 1; Jenkins v. Chambers, 9 Texas,
167.)
The empresario contract of Austin and Williams was concluded in 1831, and included land embraced in the Robertson
colony. This land was excluded from their contract in 1834,
when Robertson's contract was renewed, and was restored in
1835. (Houston v. Perry, 5 Tex., 462.) No commissioner was
appointed for this colony until September, 1835. The contract
of an empresario obliged him to introduce colonists into a specific district. The colonist having a family was entitled to one
league of land, of a particular quality, for which he paid a small
sum to the Government. The empresario was paid five leagues
and five labers for every one hundred families introduced. Of
course, the excess of land within the limits of the colony, after

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

271

Spyencer v. Lapskye.

supplying the colonists and the empresario, remained to the
Government. The commissioner of distribution was an officer
of the Government, who superintended the fulfilment of the
contract by the empresario. He ascertained the character of
the colonists, allotted to them and the empresario their shares
of land, and for that purpose appointed surveyors, received
returns of survey, and executed the final titles. Usually this
officer was not appointed until colonists were introduced, and
a community was to be. formed. The sale of the land within
the limits of the colony might disturb the interest of the empresario or of the colonists, and hence reference of the contracts
of sale to the commissioner for execution. If there were no
colonists, and the empresario opposed no objectioi, there was
no reason why sales should not be made, nor was, there any
occasion for the services of a commissioner.
Sales of land could only be made to Mexicans, and no inquiries as to their character were required. We understand
the decisicdns of the Supreme Court of Texas to be, that the
alcalde was a competent and proper person to complete the
titles on a contract of sale, where no organization of the colony
had taken place. The case of Clay v. ftolbert, 14 Tex. R., 189,
resembles that before the court. The contract of sale is dated
in 1831. The commissioner or alcalde was ordered to put the
purchaser in possess- u, and to issue the corresponding titles.
The lands were select-d in the colony of Austin and WIlliams,
in September, 1838. Williams consented for himself and partner. The survey was returned by Johnson, the surveyor. The
alcalde, (Lesassier,) who officiated in this case, completed the
title. The Supreme Court of Texas determined the grant to
be valid. (Watrous v. McGrew, 16 Tex., 512; Ryon v. Jackson, 11 Tex., 374; Hancock v. McKenny, 7 Tex., 384; Jenkins
v. Chambers, 9 Tex., 167.)
The Circuit Court further instructed the jury, "that the
grant could not be defeated by proof that the principal surveyor
did not in person perform the work of making the surveys, or
because the survey was made before the order directed to the
surveyor by the alcalde was entered on the grant," and, upon
the whole case, that there was no such evidence of fraud in
the making of the grant which would serve to defeat it in this
action.
The charge of the court in reference to the survey, followed
adjudications of the Supreme Court of Texas and of this court,
in analogous cases. It was a .common practice in Texas for
empresarios and others to have their surveys completed in anticipation of the arrival of colonists, or the measures requisite
for the procurement of the final title. The return of such.sur-

272

SUPREME COURT.
Spencer v. Laysley.

veys by a surveyor, and their recognition by the commissioner
or alcalde, was treated as a substantial compliance with the
law. A surveyor might adopt the surveys of other persons.
Jones v. Menard, 1 Tex., 789; Howard v. Perry, 7 Tex., 259;
Horton v. Pace, 9 Tex., 81; Jenkins v. Chambers, 9 Tex., 167;
Doswell v. Lanzo, 20 How. S. C. R.)
In IHoofnagle v. Anderson, 7 Wheat., 212, this court say:
"It is not doubted that a patent appropriates land. Any defects in the preliminary steps which are required by law are
cured by the patent. It is a title from its date, and has always
been held conclusive against all those whose rights did not
commence previous to its emanation." In Boardman v. Reed,
6 Pet., 328, the defendants offered to prove that the lines were
not run by a qualified surveyor; that the plats and certificates
were made out by protraction, and had been surreptitiously returned to the register's office, and patents obtained.
The court said, "that at law no facts behind the patent can
be investigated. A court of law has concurrent jurisdiction
with a court of equity in matters of fraud; but the defects in
an entry and survey cannot be taken advantage of at law. The
patent appropriates the land, and gives the legal title to the
patentee." (White v. Burnley, 20 How.)
So, if we were to consider the discrepancy of one day between the date of the preliminary order and the date of the
certificate of the Secretary, and the absence of the Governor's
signature, and the fact that one empresario consents for himself. and as attorney for his partner, without adducing that
power; and that the officers do not affix to their names the
name of their respective offices; and that the survey must have
been made before the order, and probably by a deputy or other
person, as marks of irregularity or of malpractice, our Opinion
could not be affected. In Stevenson v. iNewman, 16 L. and
Eq., Baron Parke, in delivering the opinion of "he Court of
Exchequer Chamber, says: "The effect of ordinary fraud is
not absolutely to avoid the contract or transaction which has
been caused by that fraud, but to render it voidable, at the
option of the party defrauded. The fraud only gives a right
to rescind. In the first instance, the property passes in the
subject-matter," and "vests till avoided." And this court,
after a full review of the subject, in Field v. Seabury, 19 How.,
324, states the question and the answer applicable to this case.
The question was: "When a grant or patent for land, or a
legislative confirmation of title to land, has been given by the
sovereignty or legislative authority having the exclusive power
to make it, without any provision having been made in-the patent
or by the law to inquire into its fairness, as between the grant-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

273

Spencer v. Laysley.

or and grantee, or between third parties, .can a third party raisein ejectment the question of fraud as between the grantor and
grantee, and thus look beyond the grant?" The reply of the
court is, we are not aware that such a proceeding is permittted
in a court of law.
But we do not assert that the circumstances enumerated constitute evidence of fraud., We have seen that the preliminary
title is referred to, and recited in all stages through which it
passed, and by every officer whom the law appointed to superintend its perfection, and that the survey was in accordance
with the current and recognised practice of the country.
The title emanated from the State of Coahuila and Texas, a
quarter of a century ago, when Texas was a wilderness. Colonists from abroad -were invited, and a.league of land was offered to the colonist having a family, for thirty dollars. Mexicans were allowed to purchase eleven leagues of ordinary
grazing land fbr one hundred dollars the league; or of arable
land for one hundred and fifty dollars. These eleven leagues
were sold for less than twelve hundred dollars. Since that time,
two revolutions in the condition of that State have been accomplished, and a vast improvement in the political condition
of the country effected. The defendant entered upon the land
in dispute after the second revolution was terminated, and after
the burden and heat of the contest were over. He entered
without a color of title.. Neither the State of Coahuila and
Texas, nor the Republic of Texas, nor the State of Texas,.has
taken measures to cancel this grant, nor have they, conferred
on the defendant any commission to vindicate them from wroig.
He is a volunteer. .
The doctrines of this court do not favor such a litigant.
The remaining questions presented by the bill of exceptions
relate to the power of attorney from La Vega to Williams,
under which a conveyance to Menard and Williams, n trust
for Mrs, St. John, of Connecticut, was made in 1840.
The paper produced was the testimonio of an authentic act
passed before the regidor of the illustiious Ayuntamiento of
the city of Leona Vicario, and second alcalde in turn in it and
its jurisdiction, who, by reason of the sickness of the first a]calde, &c., and bears date in 1832. The donee of this power
located the land for La Vega, and solicited the final title in
1883, and conveyed the land in 1840. Its authenticity has
never been questioned by La Vega, so far as is shown by the
record.
The regidor is an officer known to the Spanish law, and to
the legislation of Coahuila and Texas, (1 Tapia Freb., p. 197,
sec. 10; Decrees 124, see. 6; 262, see. 11; Laws C. and T.;
VOL. xx.
18

274

SUPREME COURT.
Spencer v. Lapsiey.

Edwards v. James, 7 Tex., 883,) and was authorized to discharge the duties recited in the act. Evidence was adduced
to the handwriting of the regidor and the assisting witnesses;
besides, proof was made that two of them were dead, and the
other, beyond the limits of the United States. Considered as
the act of a foreign officer, without the support of this proof,
the Supreme Court of Texas, in Paschal v. Perez, 7 Tex., 348,
say: "Its admissibility and effect is by no means a settled question at common law, and on the principles of international jurisprudence. Whether the rules of evidence of the forum are
to be exclusively observed, or whether those of a foreign country are to have weight, was considered by Mr. Justice Story as
an embarr.assing question, and which was not settled. (Story's
Conf. Laws, 634.) But the court in that case, and in the case
of De Leon v. White, 9 Tex., 599, decide that a testimonio is sufficiently established by evidence of the handwriting of the officer, and the assisting witnesses. (8 Tex., 210.) The conveyance to the trustees, for the benefit of Mrs. St. John, an alien,
was not invalid, nor can the conveyance be impeached by this
party, or in this mode of proceeding.
The averment in the petition of the citizenship of the parties
corresponds to the form commonly used in the District Court
of Texas, and which has never been questioned in the various
causes which have heretofore been before this court from that
district.
We think that the allegation is sufficiently specific.
Judgment affirmed.
Mfr. Justice DANIEL dissenting.
I find myself constrained to differ with my brethren as to the
views they have taken of this case-views more accurate, perhaps, than my own; yet differing so materially from my apprehension of the law of the case as to impose, according to
that apprehension, the duty of endeavoring to explain what by
me is deemed its true aspect.
The difficulties and irregularities incident to the removal or to
the modification of pre-existing institutions by the introduction
and superior control of systems really or seemingly incompatible with the former, must necessarily involve the hazard of
error, and impress therefore the propriety of great caution with
respect to innovations to be adopted.
Wherever the obligation exists to harmonize portions of the
previous system with the creation and the exigencies of a new
regime, the safest, indeed the only safe guide, must be found
in the adherence to enlightened and generally-admitted principles, as a guaranty for the rights and duties deducible both

DEOEMBER TERM, 1857.
Spencer v. Lapslv.

from the past and from supervening institutions. In following.l
such a guide, Iam conducted to conclusions differing from those
which have been reached by the majority of this court in this
case.,
Conceding in its utmost extent a power in the colonial Governor or political head of Texas to make grants of land; conceding, too, for argument's sake, an entire exemption in the
plaintiff below from all obligation to produce the original of a
grant made by the competent officer; admitting, also, the sufficiency of a copy from the record, still I hold that a copy, in
order to become evidence, must purport upon its face to be"a
full and perfect copy, and must be verified by some competent
person. The grant, or the paper claimed to be a grant in this
case, is defective upon its face. In the first place, it is without date, and consequently can be identified or coincident as
to time with no document in this cause; it is not signed by any
person whomsoever, in the name or character of Governor, nor
by a deputy, nor by a person professing to be clothed with authority to sign such an instrument. In its structure, it commences by speaking in the first person, as if by the maker of
the grant, but breaks off before reaching the conclusion, and
is incorporated or converted into a certificate, dated June 13th,
1839, by Santiago del Vallee, signing himself a Secretary,
stating that so far as he has given this document, it is a true
copy. This certificate, then, is a confession, in terms, that the
entire act of the Governor is not given, but that the document
is incomplete. w
The rule of evidence is, with regard to copies, that they must
be complete, and must be properly authenticated. Records are
never allowed to be adduced in evidence, unless they are perfeet records. It is never permitted to garbld them, nor to read
parts of them, or extracts from them, as evidence. Yet here
we have a paper introduced as a record, as the act of the Governor, when the proof-relied on to sustain it conclusively shows
that the record, if it be one, is incomplete; that it in fact is
falsified by itself; and the act of the Governor, if it be his act,
is not permitted to speak for itself; but an attempt is made to
establish that act by a wholly distinct and independent decla.ration, by a person styling himself a Secretary.
Every foundation of the plaintiff's claim, so far as it is made
to rest upon this allpged grant, or on the verity of the copy,
must fail.
"This defect in the evidence appears to have been perceived,
and its force felt; and hence, perhaps, the effort at the removal or
remedy thereof, by the introduction of a petition bearing date
on the 2d of May, 1832, signed by Joseph Maria Aguirre, on

276

SUPREME COURT.
Spencer v. Laysley.

behalf of himself and the other parties to the former petition,
in which it is recited that the Government had conceded to
himself and his associates on sale on certain conditions, on the
14th of June, 1830, the leagues of land now asked for in this
renewed petition, (no quantity or number being set forth,) and
then further states, that the conditions on which th concession
here spoken of having been removed or fulfilled, it prays that
the proper officers may be appointed to survey the lands, and
to put the petitioners in possession. Following this petition,
is an order or decree of the same date with the petition, and
signed Letona, not styling himself Governor, nor assuming any
official designatios; but the order is certified by Santiago del
Vallee as being a copy from the archives in his charge, and
stating that he had been commanded to take this copy from
the archives by the disposition of the most excellent Governor.
Upon a recurrence to this petition of the 2d of May, 1832,
signed Jose Maria de Aguirre, and to the decree or order of the
same date, it will be perceived that neither of these papers contains any description or quantity of land. The petition has reference to an alleged grant as made on the 14th of June, 1830,
(nowhere shown;) the order or decree refers to some act or proceeding of the political chief of the Department of Bexar, (nowhere exhibited on this record,) of the 2d of June, 1830, which,
of course, cannot be identified with the alleged concession of
a different date, viz: of the 14th of June; and the prayer of
this petition of Aguirre and the order of Letona can by no
correct induction be received as curing the defects in the first
alleged grant, or as supplying the absence of date and of signature, by any official, of any denomination or of any grade of
power whatsoever.
But it has been supposed that these material defects have
been remedied by the act of Lesassier, purporting to put the
parties, or rather La Vega, one of them, into possession. To
this suggestion it may be replied, in possession of what? It
surely cannot be pretended that Lesassier had any rightful
authority to create or to originate or to authenticate a grant.
He could not determine the rights of claimaiits, nor decide upon
the extent of concessions made by the Government. He had
no judicial or discretionary powers touching these matters; he
was merely a ministerial and subordinate agent, to execute the
orders of his superiors; and accordingly it is seen that in his
account of his proceeding he has constant reference to the
orders and decrees, recognising these as the only authority for
his acting at all. His acts could have no effect whatever, either
to confirm or to invalidate those orders or decrees, and of course

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

277

,Senc r v. Lapeq.

could not supply any defect or insufficiency in their provisions,
or in the authentication of them.
This paper, purporting to be the act of Lesassier, is in itself
defective as to the proof of its verity; for it is not introduced
as a copy from a record, nor established upon proof of-the sig
nature thereto; nor upon the testimony of the assisting witnesses at its execution; nor is the absence of those witnesses
accounted for.
In the next place, with respect to the deduction of title from
La Vega, to whom it is said a grant was made by the Government, by the decrees just examinqd. The first step in the deraighment of this title is the paper styled the power of attorndy
from La Vega to Williams, dated May 5th, 1832. Thd authenticity of this paper rests upon no foundation of legitimate evidence. It cannot be considered as possessing the dignity and
verity of a record, nor of a copy from a record. It is not shown
that the laws of Texas required it to be recorded; and without'
such a requisition it could not be made in legal acceptation a
record, by the mere will or act of a private person. This paper
does not appear to have been placed on record, and if in truth
it had been recorded in a proper legal sense, still there is no
copy said to have-been taken from a record, or certified by any
legal custodian of the record or of the original document: This
paper is signed by Juan Gonzales, who certifies that it was
copied, not from the public archives, but from the original, witt
which he says that it agrees. This certificate is an assertion
that the document certified was not copied from a record-that
it is not the original, and that the certificate was not and did
not purport to be proof of the xecution of the original. Where,
then, is found proof of this instrument, with respect either to
its dignity as a record, as a copy from a record, or as to the
truth of its execution by the parties thereto? It has been seen,
then, that this document is neither a record nor a copy from a
record. *The language of the instrument and that of the certificate of Gonzales alike contradict any such'conclusion; the
certificate declares it to be a copy of a private paper, and
nothing more. The next inquiry pertinent to this alleged
power is as tQ any authority in Gonzales to certify copies of
records, and still more to certify copies of private papers in the
possession of parties-papers, the execution of which he did
not see--and by suctL certificate to conclude or prevent all
inquiry into the fact of their execution, or of the bonafids with
which they may have been prepared. Here there is no pretence
to proof ofexecution of the alleged power. The instrumentarywitnesses, as they are termed, the witnesses present at the execution of the instrument, (and in this instance there appear to

SUPREME COURT.
Spencer v. Lapsley.

,have been three,) were not called, nor was any reason assigned
for their absence; they seem not to have been even thought
of; and with respect to those who are called the assistant witnesses-the witnesses to the certificate of Gonzales-although
it is sworn by Iewetson that one of these witnesses was dead,
and the other, J. M, Morel, resided in Mexico, no effort by
commission or otherwise was made to procure his testimony, nor
was there proof of the impracticability of procuring it. The
irregularities connected with this alleged power of attorney
seem to me too glaring, and too obviously liable to gross abuse,
and tend too strongly to injury to the rights of property, to be
tolerated in courts governed by correct and safe rules of evidence.
The objections urged by the defendant below to the legality
of the documents above commented upon, and to their relevancy to the issue between the parties, appear to have been
substantially and sufficiently reserved in the fourth and iifth
bills of exception by the defendant, and satisfy me that those
documents should have been ruled out of the cause.
It seems to me that there was error in the instruction of the
court to the jury, that there was no fraud in the transactions
by which the alleged title to the land in controversy had been
obtained or transmitted to the plaintiff.
In this action, the plaintiff could succeed or should have
succeeded in virtue- of a legal, valid, perfect title, and none
other adverse possession, with claim of right, was title until a
clear, fair, honest, legal, paramount title in the plaintiff was
shown. If, therefore, the documents upon which the claim of
the plaintiff was based should ha-e been found to carry with
them, either upon- their face or in the manner of their procurement, any of the badges of fraud, this would have been a sufficient objection to their validity. A blemish, or a defect, or
an infirmity, in that necessaril 3 fair and legal title, by which the
possession of the defendant, presumed legal as against all but
the true and rightful claimant, could be displaced, would be
fatal. What were the circumstances attending the fabrication
or procuring of the documents relied on by the plaintiff, or the
manner in which they were transmitted to him, were, it seems
to me, subjects exclusively appropriate to the consideration
of the jury. The inquiry in this case was not one arising
solely upon the construction of written instruments; it embraced also the conduct of agents alleged to have been the
makers of those instruments; the discharge of these duties in
the exercise of powers ascribed to them; and the honesty and
good faith of those professing to have dealt with them, and to
have derived and to have transmitted rights founded upon

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Swencer v. Lapsley.

those transactions. These considerations, in connection with
the ifncongruities as to dates, and the apparent deviations from
regular official proceedings, and in the conduct of those through
whom the title is traced by the plaintift from what is usual,
appear to be inseparable from the inquiry of fraud in fact and
in intent, and should have been submitted to the jury, from
whom they were withdrawn by the instruction of the court.
It is unquestionably true, that in courts whose proceedings
are regulated by the rifles of pleading at the common law, matter in abatement is not allowed to be pleaded after pleading in
bar,.unless, indeed, the matter tendered in abatement shall have
arisen, or shall have dome to the knowledge of the pleader,
puis darrein continuance; and when such matter is allowed in
defence, all that has been previously relied on in bar is considered as relinquished. Such, however, has been represented
as not having been the rule adopted in Texas. There it- has
been said that a defendant may plead both in bar and in abatement. In this case, the matter tendered was accompanied by
an affidavit of its discovery since the issue in bar; but no evidence appears upon the record of an offer to withdraw the latter; nor am I aware of the necessity of a formal proffer to that
effect. The matter tendered in abatement should, if material,
be admitted; and where so admitted, the matter previously
relied on- in bar is by legal co'nsequence, and without any necessity for an express order upon the defendant, thereby waived.
It is true that the decision of the Circuit Court rejecting this
plea is not matter for reversal here, but the consent or acquiescence of the party in sheltering himself under an artificial
rule, in a controversy in which was impugned the good faith
of that party, is matter for regret, at least, and cannot be altogether indifferent in an inquiry seeking an examination into
the fairness of the transactions involved. The removal of this
cause from one portion of the district of Texas to another, in
neither of which the district judge, upon-the facts conceded as
known to him, was competent to take cognizance of it, we are
told may be presumed to have taken place by consent. Upon
what fact such a consent can be inferred, this record does not
disclose; and it is difficult to conceive any reason existing with
the defendant below for such consent. There are presumptions,
however, connected with this removal within the district, from
which there can be no escape.
First. It must be' presumed that the district judge was
c6gmzant ab initio of his acknowledged interest in the subject
in controversy.
Secondly. It must be presunied that he was also cognizant
of his absolute disqualification, by reason of that interest, from

280

SUPREME COURT.'
Atusina et al. v. Cavazos et al.

making any decision or holding any plea in the cause; and
that the removal of it from one point to another within the
district was an useless as it was an irregular and illegal act.
Thirdly. It must be presumed, that knowing himself to be
thus disqualified, he could have no legitimate power to retain
the cause under his own control for several years ;-that such a
retention might. be oppressive as it was illegal; and that his
only power was that which' the law imposed upon him as a
duty, the power of an immediate removal of the cause, upon
its institution, to a tribunal exempt from disqualifications which
he knew existed with reference to himself. It may truly be
thought to have been a mistaken and unfortunate course in
those to whom the interests of the district judge were confided,
that they did not seek, nay, challenge and insist upon investigation, rather than exclude it under the stress of a formula in
pleading, the applicafion of which was of doubtful propriety, if
not irregular in this case. By a different proceeding, they
might have met directly charges openly alleged, and might
have removed implications, to which the suppression of inquiry
may have imparted a semblance of truth.
Upon the considerations hereinabove stated, and with a view
to the more thorough investigation as to the law and the facts
of this cause than the record before us has disclosed, it is my
opinion that the judgment of the Circuit Court should be
reversed, and this qause remanded to that court for a new
trial to be had therein.

Ex

PARTE IN THE MATTER OF JACOB MUSSINA AND ANGELA
GARCIA LAFON DE TARNEVA, ET AL. APPELLANTS, V. RAFAEL
GARCIA CAVAZOS AND WIFE, ET AL.

A rule laid upon the district judge of the State of Texas, to show cause why a
mandamus should not be issued for him to allow an appeal in a certain case;
but upon an examination of the case, the mandamus refused.

ON motion for a rule on the Hon. John C. Wafrous, judge
of the District Court of the United States for the eastern district of Texas, to show cause, &c.
Mr. Benjamin, of counsel for the said Jacob Mussina and
Angela Garcia Lafon de Tarneva, appellants as aforesaid, and
two of the defendants in the above-entitled cause, moved the
court for a rule on the Hon. John C. Watrous judge of the
District Court of the United States for the eastern district caf
Texas, requiring him to show cause, on the first -Monday of

