582

SUPREM E COURT.
Barton v. Forsyth.

But this is not a cross bill in the chancery sense of the words;
the complainants, according to their own statement, were not
defendants in the suit brought by the State. They cannot,
therefore, file a cross bill, nor be regarded as defending themselves in that form of proceeding against the suit of the State.
Their bill is evidently a suit against the State and others, to
enforce the payment of money due on certain contracts made
by the State, and the State is made a party defendant in the
suit. And for the reasons assigned in the aforegoing cases at
common law, the judgment of the State court dismissing the
bill is not open to revision here. Like the cases at common
law, it was-dismissed by the State court for want of jurisdiction to proceed further, after the passage of the act of December, 1854.
The appellants have not sought to come in under the bill filed
by the State for itself and all the creditors of the Real Estate
Bank, and to share with the State the assets in the hands of
the trustees, who are assignees of the bank. iNor, indeed, could
they do so upon the allegations made in their bill; for they do
not claim a common interest with the State in the fund they
are pursuihg, but an adverse interest, and deny the right of
the State to share in it, and could not, therefore, come in and
associate themselves as complainants with the State in its creditor's bill -when they denied that the State was a creditor of
the fend.

The laws and proceedings on the part of the State may have
operated harshly and unjustly upon the appellants. But it is
not the province of this court to decide that question. Those
who deal in the bonds -and obligations of a sovereign State are
aware that they must rely altogether on the sense of justice
and good faith of the State; and that the judiciary of the State
cannot interfere to enforce these contracts without the consent
of the State, and the courts of the United States are expressly
prohibited fiom-exercising such a jurisdiction.
The case must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this
court; and the case of the Bank of Washington et al. against
the State of Arkansas, and the Bank of Arkansas, being confessedly an original bill, must be disposed-of in like manner.
JAME§ BARTON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ROBERT FORSYTH
Where there was an affidavit made, after verdict and judgment, that the affiant
was the real party in interest, and prayed to be substituted for, or admitted with,
the defendant, and the court overruled the motion, an exception to this ruling
will not bring up'the points which were raised at the trial; nor will it bring up
'lie ruling upon the motion.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Barton v.

533

ormyth.

Exceptions must be taken or the points reserved whilst the jury are at the bar.
Evidence of the sale of property under certain proceedings of a State court was
properly received in the Circuit Court, where the proceedings of the State court
were duly certified, and it had competent jurisdiction over the subject-matter.

Tmis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the northern district of Illinois.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Ballance and Mr. 1?everdy Johnson for
the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Williams for the defendant.
Mr. ChiefJustice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Illinois, to recover a certain lot in the
town of Peoria, described -in the plaintiff's declaration.
In that suit, Forsyth, the defendant in error, was plaintiff,
and Barton, the plaintiff in error, was the defendant; and upon
the trial, the judgment of the Circuit Court was in favor of the
plaintiff, Forsyth, and thereupon Barton brought the case here
by writ of error.
It appears from the record that the title was a very disputed
one, and sundry questions of much nicety and difficulty were
raised in the trial and decided by the court. But, from the manner in which the case has 'been brought up, none of these questions are open for revision here; for no exception to them appears to have been taken or reserved by Barton while the jurywere at the bar.:
The record shows, that after the trial, and after verdict and
judgment for Forsyth, Charles Ballance filed an affidavit, stating that he was the landlord of'Barton, and the real party in
interest and thereupon moved the court -to substitute him for
Barton, as defendant; or if, in the opinion of the court, that
could not be done, that he might be admitted as co-defendant
with Barton, and that Ballance might proceed with the suit in
his own name. But the court overruled the motion, and re-.
fused to permit said Ballance to become a defendant in the
suit. "To all which decisions, rulings, and instructions, defendant
then and there excepted, and prayed that this bill of exceptions ba
sealed, signed, and .,made a record, which is done." And this has
been relied on here as an exception to all the points which the
transcript shows .to have been raised at the trial, and decided
by the court. But this is no valid exception to anything, ac-'
cording to the well-settled and established principles of law. It
has been repeatedly ruled by this court, as will appear by the
cases reported, that no instruction to the jury, given or refused
'by the court below, can be brought here for revision by writ

-"

684

SUPREME COURT.
Barton v. Forsyth.

of error, unless the record shows that the exception to it was
taken or reserved while the jury were at the bar.
This is required by the statute which authorized the exception, and cannot be dispensed with. If the party does not reserve the exception at the time at which the law requires it to
be done, he acquiesces in the decision, ahnd cannot bring up the
point upon writ of error.
But in this case, the exception was not proposed to be reserved until long after the trial was over, and the verdict and
judgment had been entered; for the affidavit of Charles Ballance, upon which his motion was made, appears to have been
sworn to on the 22d of July, 1856, after judgment, and his
motion was -not overruled until August 6th, on which lastmentioned day he for the first time took his exceptions. Such
an exception is clearly unauthorized by law, and the decisions
and rulings to which it refers cannot be considered upon this
writ of error.
There is but one ekception legally taken, and thai is upon
t e admission as evidence of the legal proceeding under which
the lot in question was sold as the property of a certain Michael
La Croix, to pay his debts, and at which sale Morrison was
the purchaser, under whom Forsyth claims title.
Barton objected to the admissibility of this evidence, and
the judges of the Circuit Court were divided in opinion; and
thereupon the evidence was allowed to go to the jury, and the
defendant excepted. Upon this point, therefore, the plaintiff
in error is entitled to the consideration and judgment of this
.court.
But we think that there was no error in admitting the evidence objected to. The documents appear to be duly certified,
and the proceedings under which the sale was made to have been
before a court of competent jurisdiction. If there were any
irregularities or errors in the proceedings after they were instituted, they were not open to examination in the Circuit
Court, coming in, as they did, collaterally as evidence of title.
Being the proceedings of a judicial tribunal which bad jurisdiction over the subject-matter, the Circuit Court had no right
to take upon itself the functions of an appellate court, and
inquire whether the debts claimed were really due from La
Croix, nor whether the proceedings were conducted and the
decision rendered in good faith by the tribunal which authorized the sale.
This being the only point legally before this court, and there
being no error in it, the judgment of the Circuit Court must
be affirmed, with costs.

