UNITED STATES v. THOMPSON.
401.

Syllabus.

incorporated therein. Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244;
Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197, 220; Dorr v. United
States, 195 U. S. 138; Dowdell v. United States, 221 U. S.
325, 332; Ocampo v. United States, 234 U. S. 91, 98.
The error which thus underlies the whole argument becomes more conspicuously manifest by recalling that Congress in the Act of 1904 expressly provided that the authority which that act gave should exist only until
Congress should otherwise provide, and, besides, that
before the passage of that act, the Act of July 1, 1902,
c. 1369, ยง 86, 32 Stat. 691, 712, provided "that all laws
passed by the government of the Philippine Islands shall
be reported to Congress, which hereby reserves the power
and authority to annul the same."
Judgment reversed.

UNITED STATES v. THOMPSON.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 250.

Argued January 27, 28, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

A judgment of the District Court sustaining a so-called motion to
quash, which in effect bars the United States from further prosecuting the alleged offense under the same or any other indictment, depriving the district attorney and the grand jury of their lawful powers
over the subject, is subject to review by this court under the Criminal
Appeals Act as a "judgment sustaining a special plea in bar." ' P. 412.
The grand jury has power to inquire into and indict upon a charge
which has previously been examined and ignored by another grand
jury; the United States attorney has power to invoke such a re-.
examination; and the exercise of these powers is not subject to be
denied at the discretion of the District Court. P. 413.
Hence, a judgment quashing an indictment because the United States
attorney did not obtain permission from the court to make the re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

submission to the grand jury upon which the indictment was obtained is erroneous, as invading the functions of the United States
attorney and those of the grand jury. P. 413.
The rule governing this subject is general, based on the common law
and the decisions of this court, and is not subject to the decisions or
statutes of the State in which the offense is committed and prosecuted. P. 415.
Section 722 of the Revised Statutes, in the criminal cases to which it
relates, adopts the state practice only in the absence of a federal rule
governing the matter in question. Id.
Applications for writs of mandamus and prohibition to control the
District Court. are disallowed when the relief sought is afforded
through a writ of error. P. 417.
Reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. C. Herron, with whom The Solicitor General and
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart were on the brief,
for the United States.
Mr. J. E. B. Cunningham,with whom Mr. R. M. Gibson
and Mr. W. C. McKean were on the brief, for defendant
in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE
court.

delivered the opinion of the

The Comptroller of the Currency, in January, 1915,
closed the doors of the First National Bank of Uniontown,
Pennsylvania.

At the opening of the November term,

1915, of the court below, sitting at Pittsburgh, the attention of the grand jury was called by the court to alleged
criminal acts connected with the administration of the
affairs of the bank, and, following an investigation, the

district attorney submitted to the grand jury a proposed
indictment charging Thompson, the president of the
bank, in forty-seven counts with violations of the Na-

UNITED STATES v. THOMPSON.

407.

Opinion of the Court.

tional Bank Act. The grand jury having concluded to
indict only for the first seventeen of said counts, the district attorney prepared an indictment embracing them
and withdrew the other thirty from consideration. The
bill thus drawn was submitted to the grand jury, by it
presented as a true bill, and was ordered filed.
On March 17, 1916, the Attorney General of the United
States, pursuant to the Act of June 30, 1906, c. 3935,
34 Stat. 816, appointed a special assistant for the purpose
of co6perating with the district attorney in the matter of
the steps to be taken to procure the indictment of Thompson. The next session of the court was held in March,
1916, at Erie, and the district attorney and the assistant
to the Attorney General, without asking authority of the
court, directed the attention of the grand jury to the
charges against Thompson covered by the counts as to
which the grand jury at Pittsburgh had failed to make a
presentment, and, after hearing witnesses called by the
district attorney, the Erie grand jury, on the 24th day of
March, found a true bill containing thirty counts covering
such charges. When this indictment was presented the
court expressed doubt, in view of the fact that the charges
had been submitted to a previous grand jury and no presentment had been made, whether there was any authority
in the Erie grand jury, at the instance of the district
attorney, to consider such charges without previously
obtaining the consent of the court. However, the court
observed that, as the grand jury had reported a true bill,
it would be placed on file, with the reservation of a right
to take such future action regarding it as might be deemed
appropriate.
Both indictments went upon the calendar for hearing,
but that result was postponed from time to time in order
to afford the accused an opportunity to prepare his defense. Finally in May, 1918, when both indictments were
set for trial, a motion was made to quash both, based, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

far as concerned the Erie indictment, upon the ground
that the grand jury had considered the subject of that
indictment, not of its own motion, but upon the suggestion of the district attorney without any previous authority given him by the court. The motion was further
supported by the assertion that the presentment of a true
bill by the Erie grand jury was not made "from the
personal knowledge of any of the grand jurors, nor from
the testimony of witnesses sent before the said grand jury
by leave of, or by order of the court"; that "the knowledge upon which said presentment was so made, came to
said grand jury 'through the evidence of certain witnesses' called before said grand jury by the United States
attorney without the order or permission of the court and
the subject matter of said presentment was not called to
the attention of, or given in charge or submitted to, the
grand jury by the court." In addition, the motion averred
that the thirty counts included in the Erie indictment
covered the same offenses which were embraced by the
thirty counts as to which the Pittsburgh grand jury had
failed to find a true bill, and that the witnesses introduced
by the district attorney at Erie were virtually the same
witnesses previously by him introduced as to the same
charges before the Pittsburgh grand jury.
The motion as to the Pittsburgh indictment was rejected and we put it out of view. That as to the Erie
indictment was granted on the ground that the district
attorney had no authority, after the action of the Pittsburgh grand jury, to resubmit the same matters to the
Erie grand jury without the approval of the court, and
that the Erie grand jury, for the same reason, had no
authority to consider the subject. The court said:
"The resubmission of those matters to the later grand
jury at the Erie term was without the knowledge or approval of the court. The resubmission of the offenses
against the Government to a new grand jury is a matter of

UNITED STATES v. THOMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

407.

highest prerogative, and is always subject to the control
of the court, and, in proper cases, always granted by the
court.

.

.

.

Again, it appears

.

.

.

that there

was a special designation by the Attorney General, of
some one, to attend the sessions of the grand jury at Erie
and proceed with the investigation.
"We have, then, a subsequent introduction of the same
matters to a later grand jury, with the pressure, perhaps,
of a specially designated representative of the highest
officer in the Department of Justice, without the approval
or without the permission of the court, and perhaps to the
prejudice of the defendant.
"I am satisfied that the matters in connection with the
finding of the indictment at Erie were more than irregularities, and, therefore, I must sustain the motion to quash
the indictment found at Erie, and note an exception to the
Government.
"The court further wishes to state that the control of
the grand jury by common law and by statute law is under
the court and the proceedings are under the control of the
court.
"MR. RusH [the district attorney]. May it please the
court, the holding, then, of the court, as I understand it,
is that the presentation of the case to the grand jury,
which has been formerly ignored, would be a bar to a
subsequent presentation, unless leave of court were
granted.
"By THE COURT. Without the permission of the court,
yes. I think that is the law, and that is what I have
stated."
. A rehearing was asked on the ground, among others,
that if the allowance of the motion to quash were adhered
to, the result would be to bar the right of the Government
to further prosecute for the offenses charged, as in consequence of the continuances which had been granted and
the delay in making the motion to quash, the statute of

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

limitations would be operative. The rehearing was denied,
the court reiterating its previous rulings and pointing out
that, as the Pittsburgh indictment had not been quashed,
there was opportunity for the Government to prosecute
for the offenses therein charged, although its right to
further prosecute the offenses charged in the Erie indictment would be lost.
This direct writ of error was then prosecuted under the
Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat.
1246, both parties agreeing, for the purposes of a motion
to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, which we now consider, that under the circumstances here disclosed the
authority to review must depend upon whether the
quashing of the indictment was a "decision or judgment
sustaining a special plea in bar, when the defendant has
not been put in jeopardy."
As it is settled that this question is to be determined,
not by form but by substance (United States v. Barber,
219 U. S. 72, 78; United States v. Oppenheimer, 242 U. S.
85), it follows that the fact that the ruling took the form of
granting a motion to quash is negligible. Testing, then,
the existence of jurisdiction by the substantial operation of
the judgment, and assuming for the purpose of that test
that the United States possessed the right to submit the
indictment to the second grand jury without leave of
court, which right was denied by the judgment below, we
are of opinion that the power to review the judgment is
conferred by the provision of the statute quoted, (a) because its necessary effect was to bar the absolute right of
the United States to prosecute by subjecting the exercise
of that right, not only as to this indictment but as to all
subsequent ones for the same offenses, to a limitation resulting from the exercise of the judicial power upon which
the judgment was based; and (b) because a like consequence resulted as to the authority of the district attorney
and the powers of the grand jury, since the exercise in

UNITED STATES v. THOMPSON.
407.

Opinion of the Court.

both cases of lawful authority was barred by the application of unauthorized judicial discretion.
It is true it is argued that, as the rights which the United
States asserted were not possessed, the judgment did not
bar the United States or the district attorney or the grand
jury from the exercise of any lawful power. But this can
only rest upon the assumption, that as there was no error
in the judgment there is no power to review it, which, if
its premise has any force, will be disposed of by the decision of the merits to which we now proceed.
The Government urges that in the absence of statute
of the United States giving such authority, the want of
power in the court to quash the indictment for the reasons
by it stated is clearly established by the following propositions, which in an elaborate argument it is insisted are
made certain by a consideration of the common law, of
the statutory law of the United States, of the practices
from the beginning, and of the adjudications of this court
which settle the question. The propositions are these:
(1) That the power and duty of the grand jury to
investigate is original and complete, susceptible of being
exercised upon its own motion and upon such knowledge
as it may derive from any source which it may deem
proper, and is not therefore dependent for its exertion
upon the approval or disapproval of the court; that this
power is continuous and is therefore not exhausted or
limited by adverse action taken by a grand jury or by its
failure to act, and hence may thereafter be exerted as to
the same instances by the same or a subsequent grand

jury.
(2) That the United States district attorney, in virtue
of his official duty and to the extent that criminal charges
are susceptible of being preferred by information, has the
power to present such informations without the previous
approval of the court; and that by the same token the
duty of the district attorney to direct the attention of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

grand jury to crimes which he thinks have been committed is coterminous with the authority of the grand jury
to entertain such charges.
We do not stop to review or even cite the extensive
array of authorities from which the Government deduces
these propositions, but content ourselves with referring
to the following cases and the authorities therein cited by
which the propositions are sustained. Hale v. Henkel,
201 U. S. 43, 59-66; Blair v. United States, 250 U. S. 273;
and see, with particular reference to the second proposition, Weeks v. United States, 216 Fed. Rep. 292, 297, 298;
Creekmore v. United States, 237 Fed. Rep. 743; Abbott
Bros. Co. v. United States, 242 Fed. Rep. 751; Kelly v.
United States, 250 Fed. Rep. 947. To do more than to
make this reference is unnecessary as in argument the
abstract correctness of the propositions advanced by the
Government is conceded and the only controversy is as to
their application, based upon the insistence that the
present case is governed by an exception which exacts the
necessity of procuring the prior approval of the court
wherever a district attorney presents to one grand jury
charges which a previous grand jury has ignored. The
existence of this particular exception was expressly declared by the court below to be the basis for its decision.
But we think the ruling, although it rested upon the
assumption stated, cannot be sustained, since the assumed
exception is so incompatible with the general principles
governing the subject as to cause it to be, in substance,
not an exception at all, but, undr the guise of an exception, a mere disregard or repudiation of the principles
themselves, for the following reasons: In the first place,
because, while admitting the power of the grand jury, it
yet denies such power, since it limits the right of that body
to inquire by causing it to be unlawful for it to listen,
without the approval of the court, to a suggestion of the
district attorney under the circumstances stated, and

UNITED STATES v. THOMPSON.
407.

Opinion of the Court.

therefore causes any finding made to depend upon an
inquiry as to the particular source of information which
led to the investigation from which the finding resulted.
In the second place, because, while conceding that the
power of the grand jury is continuous, so that unfavorable
action does not exhaust the authority of that or of another
grand jury to examine, it limits or restrains thereafter the
power of both to do so. In the third place, because, while
the general rule which is stated establishes the authority of
the district attorney as official prosecutor, and makes it,
as we have seen, coterminous with the right of the grand
jury to consider, the exception subjects that authority to
the exercise of a judicial discretion, which, as well illustrated by the case under consideration, destroys it. In
the fourth place, because, comprehensively considering
the subject, the assertion of the judicial 'discretion which
was the basis of the judgment below is incompatible with
the spirit and purpose underlying the admitted principles
as to the power of grand juries, and the right of the
Government to initiate prosecutions for crime, since in
the case stated such powers are controlled, not by a rule
of law, but depend upon a mere exercise of judicial discretion.
From the point of view of authority, the argument seeks
to establish the existence of the exception upheld by the
court below by a reference to a number of cases decided in
Pennsylvania and in other States.' As to the Pennsylvania cases, they undoubtedly support the existence of
the exception, not in virtue of any statutory provision to
1Rowand v. Commonwealth, 82 Pa. St. 405; Commonwealth v. Stoner,
70 Pa. Super. Ct. 365; Commonwealth v. Allen, 14 Pa. Co.,Ct. 546; Commonwealth v. Whitaker, 25 Pa. Co. Ct. 42; Commonwealth v. Priestly,24
Pa. Co. Ct. 543; People v. Neidhart, 71 N. Y. S. 591; People v. Clements,
5 N. Y. Crin. 288; People v. Dillon, 197 N. Y. 254; State v. Collis, 73 Ia.
542; Sutton v. Commonwealth, 97 Ky. 308; People v, Warren, 109 N, Y,
615; Rea v. State, 3 Okla, Crim, 269,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

that effect, but solely in contemplation of the common
law of the State. But, in view of what we have just said
concerning the error upon which the exception rests, its
departure from the common law, its conflict with the
settled rule applicable in the courts of the United States,
as sustained by the decisions of this court, we are unable
to accept the doctrine of the Pennsylvania cases as being
even persuasively controlling.
As to the cases from other States which are relied upon
as sustaining the exception, they are inapplicable because, with one or two exceptions, they rest exclusively
upon the provisions of state statutes which on their face
show an intention to deviate from the general rule which
otherwise would prevail at the common law.'
It remains only to consider the contention that, irrespective of the want of persuasive power of the Pennsylvania
cases, as the case in hand concerns the prosecution for a
crime committed in Pennsylvania, even though it be a
crime against the United States, the state rule, in virtue
of the provisions of ยง 722 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, was authoritatively controlling on the
court below and is so controlling here. But the section
relied upon provides for applying a state rule only where
that course is required by an absence of federal rule on
the subject. In view of the existence of a controlling
federal rule which would be overthrown by applying the
state law, the want of merit in the contention is so selfevident that we leave it without further notice.
The difference between calling into play a discretion for
the purpose of prohibiting the performance of duties
authorized by law, lest if their performance be permitted,
they may be abused, and the exertion of a sound discre1People v. Warren, 109 N. Y. 615; People v. Dillon, 197 N. Y. 254;
Sutton v. Commonwealth, 97 Ky. 308; State v. Collis, 73 Iowa, 542; Rea
v. State, 3 Okla. Crim. 281.

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
407.

Syllabus.

tion possessed, for the purpose of reasonably regulating
the performance of duties by law imposed, serves, in the
last analysis, to dispose of the arguments concerning the
dangers Of abuse of power which may result from a failure
to uphold the existence of the discretion which the court
below deemed it possessed and upon which its action was
based.
As we have exercised jurisdiction to review on the
writ of error, the prayer of the United States for the granting of a rule to show cause why mandamus and prohibition
should not issue if jurisdiction of the writ of error was not
maintained, has nothing now to rest upon and it is denied.
It further follows from what we have said on the merits
that the judgment below must be and it is
Reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.

UNITED

STATES v. UNITED STATES STEEL
CORPORATION ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 6. Argued March 9, 12-14, 1917; restored to docket for reargument
May 21, 1917; reargued October 7-10, 1919.-Decided March 1, 1920.
That an industrial combination is formed with the expectation of
achieving a monopoly is not enough to make it a monopoly within
the meaning of the Anti-Trust Act. P. 444.
Held, that the power'attained by the United States Steel Corporation,
much greater than that of any one competitor, but not greater than
that possessed by them all, did not constitute it a monopoly. Id.
The fact that a corporation, alleged to be-an illegal combination, during
a long period after its formation persuaded and joined with its com-

