396

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Counsel for Parties.

251 U. S.

BROOKS-SCANLON COMPANY v. RAILROAD
COMMISSION OF LOUISIANA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE

OF

LOUISIANA.

No. 386. Argued January 6, 1920.-Decided February 2, 1920.
A common carrier cannot, under the Fourteenth Amendment, be compelled by a State to continue operation of its railroad at a loss.
P. 399.
Where a railroad serving the public is owned and operated by a lumber company in connection with its lumber business, it is the business
of the railroad and not the entire business of the company which
determines whether the railroad may be abandoned as unprofitable.
Id.
A mere suggestion in the opinion of a state court unsupported by
evidence, cannot be taken as a finding of fact in determining the
scope and ground of its decision. Id.
Nor can a statement that the court has not jurisdiction to consider
relief claimed under the Federal Constitution, because the plaintiff
has not complied with formalities under the state law, be taken as
placing the decision on a state ground, when the court actually passes
upon and denies the merits of plaintiff's claim, gives relief against
plaintiff, and devotes its opinion almost entirely to explaining and
justifying such course. P. 400.
Forms imposed by local law cannot enable courts and commissions
to do what the Federal Constitution forbids. Id.
144 Louisiana, 1086, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. Blanc Monroe and Mr. Robert R. Reid, with
whom Mr. Monte M. Lemann was on the briefs, for
petitioner.
Mr. W. M. Barrow, Assistant Attorney General of
the State of Louisiana, with whom Mr. A. V. Coco,

BROOKS-SCANLON CO. v. R. R. COMM.
396.

Opinion of the Court.

Attorney General of the State of Louisiana, was on the
briefs, for respondent.
Mn. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit by the Brooks-Scanlon Company, a
Minnesota corporation organized to manufacture and
deal in lumber and to carry on other incidental business,
against the Railroad Commission of Louisiana. It seeks
to set aside an order (Number 2228) of the Commission
requiring the plaintiff either directly or through arrangements made with the Kentwood and Eastern Railway
Company, to operate its narrow gauge railroad between
Kentwood and Hackley, in Louisiana, upon schedules
and days to be approved by the Commission. The
plaintiff alleges that the order cannot be complied with
except at a loss of more than $1500 a month, and that
to compel compliance would deprive the plaintiff of its
property without due process of law, contrary to the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, with other objections not necessary to
be mentioned here. The defendant denies the plaintiff's allegations and in reconvention prays for an injunction against the tearing up or abandoning of the
road and for a mandate upholding the order. In the
Court of first instance a preliminary injunction was
issued in favor of the Commission, but was dissolved
upon bond. Subsequently a judgment was entered
denying a motion of the Commission to set aside the
order dissolving the injunction, and after a trial on the
merits judgment was entered for the plaintiff, declaring
the order void. The defendant appealed from both
judgments to the Supreme Court of the State. That
Court reversed the decision below and reinstated the
injunction granted on the defendant's prayer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

It seems that the Banner Lumber Company, a Louisiana corporation, formerly owned timber lands, sawmills
and this narrow gauge railroad. The road was primarily
a logging road but it may be assumed to have done business for third persons as a common carrier. The Banner
Lumber Company sold the whole property to the BrooksScanlon Lumber Company on November 1, 1905, the
stockholders of which obtained a charter for the railroad
as the Kentwood and Eastern Railway Company on
December 5 of the same year. In the interim it was
managed by them with separate accounts. An oral
lease of the road was made to the new company and
soon afterwards the Brooks-Scanlon Lumber Company
transferred its property to the Brooks-Scanlon Company,
the petitioner. On the first of July, 1906, the BrooksScanlon Company made a written lease of the road to
the Railway Company and sold to it all the rolling stock
and personal property used in connection with the road.
Thereafter the road was run as before, doing a small
business as a common carrier but depending upon the
carrying of logs and lumber to make it a profitable rather
than a losing concern. In course of time the timber of
the Brooks-Scanlon Company was cut and it terminated
the lease to the Railway Company, which discontinued
business on April 22, 1918, with the assent of the Railroad Commission, and sold its rolling stock. At that
time the Commission being advised that it had no power
did nothing more. But later, subsequent to a decision
by the Supreme Court in May, it issued notice to the
Brooks-Scanlon Company and the Railway to show
cause why the road should not be operated, gave a hearing, and issued the order complained of here. The Supreme Court, after saying that the two corporations
were one under different names, stated that the only
question left for determination was whether the plaintiff could be compelled by the Commission. to operate

BROOKS-SCANLON CO. v. R. R. COMM.
396.

Opinion of the Court.

its railroad, and concluded that although the railroad
showed a loss, the test of the plaintiff's rights was the
net result of the whole enterprise-the entire business
of the corporation-and on that ground made its decree.
We are of opinion that the test applied was wrong
under the decisions of this Court. A carrier cannot be
compelled to carry on even a branch of business at a
loss, much less the whole business of carriage. On this
point it is enough to refer to Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v.
North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 595, 599, 600, 604, and Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. West Virginia, 236 U. S. 605,
609,' 614. It is true that if a railroad continues to exercise the power conferred upon it by a charter from a
State, the State may require it to fulfil an obligation
imposed by the charter even though fulfilment in that
particular may cause a loss. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262, 276, 278. But that special
rule is far from throwing any doubt upon a general principle too well established to need further argument here.
The plaintiff may be making money from its sawmill
and lumber business but it no more can be compelled
to spend that than it can be compelled to spend any
other money to maintain a railroad for the benefit of
others who do not care to pay for it. If the plaintiff be
taken to have granted to the public an interest in the
use of the railroad it may withdraw its grant by discontinuing the use when that use can be kept up only at
a loss. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.113, 126. The principle is illustrated by the many cases in which the constitutionality of a rate is shown to depend upon whether
it yields to the parties concerned a fair return.
While the decision below goes upon the ground that
we have stated, it is thrown in at the end as a makeweight that the order of the Commission calls upon the
plaintiff "to submit a new schedule for transportation
which may be operated at much less expense to it than

OCTOBER TERM, 191U.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

the former schedule cost, and at a profit for plaintiff."
This is merely the language of hope. We cannot take
it to be a finding of fact, for we perceive nothing in the
evidence that would warrant such a finding. The assumption upon which the Court made its ruling was that the
plaintiff's other business was successful enough to stand
a loss on the road.
Finally a suggestion is made in argument that the
decision rested also upon another ground that cannot
be reconsidered here. At the end of the opinion it is
stated that the plaintiff has not petitioned the Railroad
Commission for leave to discontinue this business and
that until it has done so the Courts are without jurisdiction of the matter. It is not impossible that this is
an oversight since it seems unlikely that after the Commission has called the plaintiff before it on the question
and against its strenuous objection has required it to
go on, such an empty form can be required. But in
any case it cannot be meant that the previous discussion
which occupies the whole body of the opinion is superfluous and irrelevant to the result reached; nor can the
words be taken literally, since the court proceeded to
take jurisdiction and reinstated an injunction in favor
of the defendant. Whatever may be the forms required
by the local law it cannot give the Court or Commission
power to do what the Constitution of the United States
forbids, which is what the order and injunction attempt.
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Public Service Commission, 250
U. S. 566.
Decree reversed.

