OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

was no objection made to that action and no request for a
remand of the case. And besides there was nothing to
retry. The case involves only propositions of law.
Judgmnnt affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY and MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

dissent.

DUNBAR v. CITY OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 160.

Argued January 21, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

The owner of a building in New York City demised it to tenants who
in breach of their covenant failed to pay the city'E water-charge
based on the measured amount of water they consumEcd. Held, that
the imposing of a lien for the charge thus incurred by the tenants,
under charter provisions operative when the lease was made, did not
deprive the owner of property without due process of law. P. 517.
Constitutional rights cannot be based on error in prior court decisions. P. 518.

177 App. Div. 647, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Harold G. Aron, with whom Mr. Henry M. Wise was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William Herbert King, with whom Mr. William P.
Burr and Mr. Charles E. Lalanne were on the brief, for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.

Plaintiff in, error, to whom we shall refer as plaintiff, is
the owner of certain real property and a building thereon

DUNBAR v. CITY OF NEW YORK.
516.

Opinion of the Court.

in the City of New York which she leased to William Hills
and William Hills, Jr., copartners doing business under the
style of William Hills, Jr. The lessee covenanted to pay
the charges for water which should be assessed against or
'imposed upon the building during the lease, and if not so
paid it should be added to the rent then due or to become
due.
The copartnership was-subsequently adjudged bankrupt
and at the time of the petition was indebted to the city in
the sum of $379.89 for water supplied as measured by
two meters which had been installed in the property.
The city proved no claim in bankruptcy and a motion by
plaintiff for an order directing the trustee to pay the water
charges as a tax entitled to preference under the Bankruptcy Act was denied on the ground that they were not a
tax.
The plaintiff then brought this action to cancel the
charge as a lien upon the property and prayed an injunction against its enforcement.
The contention against the charge of the city and the
lien it asserts is that they are in violation of ยง 1 of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States and because they deprive plaintiff of property
without due process of law.
Plaintiff's argument is somewhat difficult to state'
briefly. It commences by declaring that the question presented was left open in ProvidentInstitution v. Jersey City,
113 U. S. 506, which sustained the postponement of mortgages to the lien of water rents because it was said in that
case that the complainant in the case knew what the law
was when the mortgages were taken, and therefore "its
own voluntary act, its own consent," was "an element in
the transaction."
Counsel assumes that the case presented an instance of
an express consent. In that counsel is mistaken. The
consent was implied from the fact that the law imposing

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

the water rents preceded the mortgages. And so in the
water charge in controversy, it was imposed and made a
lien on plaintiff's property by the charter of the city and
therefore the Supreme Court at the first instance and
afterwards in Appellate Division, and we my assume
the Court of Appeals, decided that the consent of plaintiff
could be implied, and any other conclusion would have
been impossible. A city without water would be a desolate place and if plaintiff's property was in such situation
it would partake of the desolation. And as a supply of
water is necessary it is only an ordinary and legal exertion
of government to provide means for its compulsory compensation.
It is of no consequence, therefore, at whose request the
meters were installed in the property. The meters as
observed by the Appellate Division were "not the instrumentalities for furnishing the water," they only registered
its consumption. And besides, the lease made by plaintiff
contemplated the use of water by the lessees and provided,
as far as the lessor (plaintiff) could, for the payment of
the charges for it. That her tenants defaulted in their
obligation by reason of their bankruptcy was her misfortune but it did not relieve the property, which, we may
say, would be unfit for human habitancy if it could not get
water.
Counsel appear to rely on prior decisions of the court for
relief of plaintiff, one in the Supreme Court, in which, it is
said, a doubt was intimated whether a statute making a
lessor liable for the personal debt of a lessee for water
would be constitutional; and one in the Court of Appeals
which, to quote counsel, "having decided in 1910, three
years prior to the inception of the charges for which the
lien is claimed, that the statute meant what the earlier
case had suggested, the lien became unconstitutional"
and plaintiff cannot be charged with an "implication of
assent" to it. Without attempting an estimate of the

THE SOUTH COAST.
516.

Argument for Petitioner.

contentipn it is enough to say that the decision in this
case and other cases are opposed to the contention, and
that besides no constitutional rights can be based on the
error of prior decisions.
Judgment affirmed.

THE SOUTH COAST.'
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 68.

Submitted November 10, 1919.-Decided March 1, 1920.

In purchasing necessary supplies, the master of a demised vessel, appointed by the owner but under the orders of the charterer, is the
charterer's agent. P. 523.
A charter-party, demising a vessel, required the charterer to pay all
expenses and save the owner harmless from liens, allowed the owner
to retake the vessel should the charterer fail to discharge any liens
within a stated period after they were imposed, and placed the master, appointed by the owner, under the charterer's orders. Applying
the Act of June 23, 1910, held that the charter-party, if it did not
grant, at least assumed authority in the charterer to bind the vessel
for necessary supplies purchased by the master in a domestic port,
and that the statutory presumption of such authority could not be
dispelled by denials and warnings from the owner to the supply man.
Id.
247 Fed. Rep. 84, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.'

Mr. Oliver Dibble for petitioner. Mr. Marcel E. Cerf
and Mr. C. H. Sooy were on the briefs.
They relied largely on the following authorities, decided
1 The docket title of this case is: South Coast Steamship Company,
claimant of the steamer "South Coast," etc., v. J. C. Rudbach.

