OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

in an unmistakable way. We find nothing in the Owensboro Case which at all conflicts with the construction
which we have given to § 3490, applicable to cities of the
fourth class to which the City of Winchester belongs.
Finding no error in the judgment of the District Court,
the same is
Affirmed.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 71.

Argued November 12, 1919.-Decided January 5, 1920.

A railroad company which contracted to carry the mail for a compensation fixed by test weighings made after withdrawing empty
mail bags, as directed by the Act of May 27, 1908, c. 206, 35 Stat.
412, is not injured by such withdrawal although its purpose was
to diminish the pay for mail carriage. P. 205.
Empty mail bags withdrawn from the mails, and which, with other
articles of furniture and equipment, are, under the Act of May 27,
1908, supra, required to be transmitted by freight or express, are
"property of the United States," within the free transportation
provisions of the railroad land-grant Acts of February 9, 1853, c. 59,
§ 4, 10 Stat. 155, and July 28, 1866, c. 300, § 1, 14 Stat. 338. P. 206.
The provision of the land-grant Act of 1853, supra, § 6, requiring
transportation of the mail over claimant's land-aided road at such
price as Congress may by law direct, and that of the Act of July 12,
1876, c. 179, § 13, 19 Stat. 82, fixing the compensation in such cases
at 80 per cent. of that generally allowed, do not embrace, as part of
the mail, empty mail bags which by the Act of May 27, 1908, are
classified with other property of the United States for transportation
by freight or express. Id.
The Act of June 30, 1882, c. 254, 22 Stat. 120, directing payment on a
50 per cent. basis for army transportation' by land-grant railroads, iJ
inapplicable to transportation of empty mail bags. P. 207.
53 Ct. Chns. 45, affirmed.

ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 199
198.

Argument for Appellant.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Benjamin Carter-for appellant:
The railroad companies obtained public lands for the

consideration of serving the Government, by transporting
its troops and its property. The contents of the mail bags
are not property of the United States, and the mail bags,
whether loaded with mails, or going back empty'for reloading, are merely appurtenant to the matter carried in
them. So, naturally, the loaded bags always had been,
and still are, treated as part of the mails and for this reason
subject on land-aided railroads to 80 per cent. of the rates
of mail pay established, not by the land-grant acts above
referred to, but by the Act of July 12, 1876, c. 179, 19
Stat. 78. Inasmuch as every mail bag, while used in the
mail service, must sometimes be full and sometimes empty,
it would seem to fall reasonably under the operation of this

latter act, rather than of the acts which relate to freights
and passengers. The acts relating to troops and property
have been strictly construed. United States v. Union
Pacific R. R. Co., 249 U. S. 354; Alabama Great Southern
R. R. Co. v. United States, 49 Ct. Clms. 522; Chicago,
Milwaukee & St. Paul Rp. Co. v. United States, 50 Ct.
Clms. 413; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. United
States, 54 Ct. Clms. 213.
Fifty per cent. rates for freights, the property of the
Government, were made generally applicable by the Act
of June 30, 1882, c. 254, 22 Stat. 120, and this provision
became permanent by codification in the supplement to
the Revised Statutes, 1st Supp. Rev. Stats., 376. It seems
safe to say that no member of the Congress which enacted
that law (knowing that 80 per cent. of full rates was already established by statute for mail service on landaided routes) believed that, in regard to the carriers'
compensation, any element of the mails would ever, by
interpretation, be counted as among its subjects.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant.

251 U. S.

Did Congress, in providing by the Act of May 27, 1908,
that the empty mail bags should be carried by freight
trains, mean, besides saving a difference between mail
rates and freight rates, to obtain for the bags on land.aided railroad track a different abatement from full rates
than that which had applied to them when carried in the
mail cars? To say the least, nothing occurred, in the
makink of this new law, to indicate any such purpose.
If it was the purpose that the empty bags should go on a
basis of 50 per cent., as against 80 per cent., of full pay
on some lines and should be carried free of charge on
other lines, it is remarkable that no such consideration was
mentioned.
Not merely do the "free-land grant" lines (five in number) suffer a peculiar hardship from the present practice;
they thus suffer for the first time. The Act of July 12,
1876, was always construed as giving to land-aided lines
uniformly 80 per cent. of the full mail-pay rates. So for
twenty-two years the appellant had received for carrying
the mail bags, full or empty, the same rates that were
paid on those lines to which, as regards passenger and
freight service, 50 per cent. compensation was paid by the
Government. This fact is shown by the reports of the
Postmaster General, judicially known to this court. It
was necessarily known to Congress in 1908. In the absence of any legislative avowal or suggestion of a purpose
to do so revolutionary a thing, is it not rash to conclude
that Congress finally willed that, while all land-aided
railroads should remain on one footing as regards loaded
mail bags (and their loads) there should be, with respect
to the empty bags, one paid class and one unpaid class of
land-aided railroads? Is it not more reasonable to say
that, in shifting the empty bags from mail-car service to
freight-train service and from statutory mail pay to
freight rates of pay, Congress did not intend to put any
new qualification into the term "rail-road-companies

Sr. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 201
198.

Argument for Appellant.

by a land.
-whose railroad was constructed .
grant made by Congress" which it used in the Act of
July 12, 1876?
For purposes of compensation, mail bags always' outgoing and incoming and between times, i. e., for repairs,
safe-keeping and for proper distribution among the mail
routes, are in the hands of the postal authorities. They
are never thought of as having any but a mail use.
The Comptroller of the Treasury (17 Comp. Dec. 900)
ruled that shipment of "blue tag" matter by freight trains
was lawful provided the amount paid therefor, added to
the amount due at mail rates for the weight of matter
carried in the mail trains, did not exceed the amount
which the Postmaster General was authorized to pay for
the total weight of mails carried.
The appellant in accepting a land grant (Act of February 9, 1853), contracted that "compensation" for its
mail service should be named provisionally by the Postmaster General, ultimately by Congress. By force of the
Act of July 12, 1876, its contract was to carry the mailg
and to receive 80 per cent. of the statutory rates of compensation. The contract is not carried out if it receives
no compensation for carrying the mails; and in applying
the law relating to the mails at large the courts would not
incline to any interpretation which would have that
effect. Is it any more conscionable, when the Act of
May 27, 1908, is applied, to say that all compensation
should be denied with respect to one essential element
of the mails?
If possible, a statute, whatever its terms, will be construed so as to avoid doing a serious injury or producing
absurd consequences. Is it not a serious injustice if a
railroad company, having contracted to carry the mails for
special, reduced rates of compensation, receives no compensation whatever for something that was included in the
mails so contracted for and still is inseparable therefrom?

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson for the UnitedStates.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case presents questions arising upon a suit brought
by the Railway Company in the Court of Claims to recover compensation for the carriage of mail bags under
facts found in the Court of Claims in the record sent up
for our consideration. These facts are: That the St.
Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Railway Company, a
corporation organized under the laws of the State of
Missouri, operated a line of railway between Tower Grove,
Missouri, and Texarkana in Arkansas. So much of the
railway line as lies between Poplar Bluff, Missouri, and
Texarkana, Arkansas, was aided in its construction by a
grant of land from the United States by the Act of February 9, 1853, c. 59, 10 Stat. 155, and by the Act of
July 28, 1866, c. 300, 14 Stat. 338.
The fourth section of the Act of February 9, 1853, provides:
"The said railroad and branches shall be and remain a
public highway for the use of the Government of the
United States, free from toll or other charge upon the
transportation of any property or troops of the United
States."
The first section of the Act of July 28, 1866, with respect
to said railway, provides:
"All property and troops of the United States shall at all
times be transported over said railroad and branches at
the cost, charge, and expense of the company or corporation owning or operating said road and branches respectively, when so required by the government of the United
States."
February 4, 1910, the Post Office Department transmitted to the claimant company a distance circular which

ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 203
198.

Opinion of the Court.

relates to mail transportation, the same was duly filled out
and certified and returned to the Post Office Department.
Between the 17th of February and the 1st day of June,
1910, the Post Office Department made the quadrennial
weighing of mail in the weighing division which included
the Railway Company's lines. Before this weighing of
the mails, Congress passed the Act of May 27, 1908, c.
206, 35 Stat. 412, making appropriations for the Post
Office Department, which provides: "The PostmasterGeneral shall require, when in freightable lots and whenever practicable, the withdrawal from the mails of all
postal cards, stamped envelopes, newspaper wrappers,
empty mail bags, furniture, equipment, and other supplies for the postal service, except postage stamps, in the
respective weighing divisions of the country, immediately
preceding the weighing period in said divisions, and thereafter such postal cards, stamped envelopes, newspaper
wrappers, empty mail bags,, furniture, equipment, anti
other supplies for the postal service, except postage
stamps, shall be transmitted by either freight or express."
Subsequent to the passage of the Act of May 27, 1908,
the Post Office Appropriation Acts provided for specific
sums for the payment of expressage on .postal cards,
stamped envelopes, newspaper wrappers and empty mail
bags, and they carried similar provisions as to the withdrawal of said articles'from the mails preceding weighing
periods.
Before the weighing of the mails of the Railway Company the Postmaster General, acting under authority of
the provisions of the Act of 1908, withdrew from the mail
the empty mail bags, and the same were thereafter
transported by freight over claimant's line of railway, and
the weights were not included in estimating the weight of
the mail carried during the contract term beginning
July 1, 1910.
The findings give the number of pounds of empty mail

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

bags withdrawn from the mails during the weighing season
of 191.0 and sent by freight to St. Louis from Texarkana,
Arkansas, and Little Rock, Arkansas, and show that if
these empty bags had not been so withdrawn and the
weight thereof had been included with the weight of the
mails, upon which compensation was based, the claimant
would have received $15,296.82 more than it did receive
for service performed between July 1, 1910, and February 1, 1912.
During the period from July 1, 1910, to and including
January 31, 1912, a total of 1,452,271 pounds of empty
mail bags were transported over the railroad of the claimant in freight trains from Texarkana, Arkansas, to St.
Louis, Missouri, for which service the claimant submitted
bills at the published tariff rate against the United States
amounting in the aggregate to $14,043.17. In making
settlement of these charges the Auditor for the Post
Office Department made a deduction for the entire charge
for the services performed from Texarkana, Arkansas, to
Poplar Bluff, Missouri, amounting to $8,251.45.
The sixth section of the Act of 1853 provides: "The
United States Mail shall at all times be transported on the
said road and branches, under the direction of the PostOffice Department, at such price as Congress may by law
direct."
And the thirteenth section of the Act of July 12, 1876,
c. 179, 19 Stat. 78, 82, provides: "That rail-road-companies whose railroad was constructed in whole or part by a
land-grant made by Congress on the condition that the
mails should be transported over their road at such
price as Congress should by law direct shall receive only
eighty per centum of the compensation authorized by
this act."
The findings further state that ever since the passage of
said last-mentioned act it has been the custom and practice of the Post Office Department to pay all the railroads

ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO- RY. v. UNITED STATES. 205
198.

Opinion of the Court.

whose construction was aided by grants of land from the
United States 80 per centum of the rate of compensation
paid to non-land-aided roads for carrying the mails.
Claimant presented its bill for the transportation of
said freight at the full commercial rate provided by the
duly published and approved -tariffs. In making settlement therefor, the Postmaster General made deduction of
the entire charge between Texarkana, Arkansas, and
Poplar Bluff, Missouri, and refused to pay anything
therefor, on the ground that the Railway Company was
obliged by the provisions of the Acts of 1853 and 1866 to
transport said empty mail bags without cost or expense to
the United States.
. Upon these findings the Court of Claims decided against
the claimant, and dismissed its petition. 53 Ct. Clms. 45.
Two questions are presented, which are thus stated in
the opinion of the Court of Claims:
"(1) Could the empty mail bags be lawfully withdrawn
from the mails merely for the purpose of reducing claimant's compensation for mail transportation service?
"(2) And assuming that said empty mail bags were
lawfully withdrawn from the mails and shipped by freight,
were they 'property' of the United States within the purview of the land-grant acts of 1853 and 1866?"
As to the first question there can be little difficulty.
There was nothing in any law or contract of the Government which required it to permit the weighing of empty
sacks (r containers as part of the mail in determining the
compensation to be paid for carrying the same. While,
generally speaking, a bag or container in which letters or
other mailable matter is carried is part of the mail, and
collectively the containers might be considered as part
of the mail essential to carry the mailable matter from one
place to another, nevertheless there was nothing to prevent Congress, in fixing compensation for the carriage of
the mails to expressly withdraw therefrom the empty

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

mail bags, and this it did by the Act of May 27, 1908,
above quoted..
For the purposes of fixing compensation in the weighing
of the mail Congress directed that the weight of the empty
bags should be withheld in determining the average weight
of the mails as the basis of fixing compensation. We agree
with the Court of Claims that such action violated no
contractual or other right of the claimant.
Concerning the other question presented there is perhaps more difficulty. By the sixth section of the Act of
1853 it was directed that the United States mail should be
transported over the claimant's road at such prices as
Congress may by law direct, and by the thirteenth section
of the Act of July 12, 1876, a railroad aided by grants of
land made by Congress on condition that Congress should
fix the basis of compensation for transportation of mails
over its lines should receive 80 per centum of the compensation provided for in the act. These acts make specific
reference to the amounts to be paid for the transportation
of the mails. The payment provided in them is for the
transportation of the mails which, it may be conceded,
might include with the mail-matter the bags in which
the same was carried. However, by the Act of May 27,
1908, the Congress has classified empty mail bags with
furniture and equipment and other supplies for the postal
service, to be transported by freight or express. Congress
thus undertook to make a separate provision covering the
carrying of empty mail containers after they had served
their purpose of enclosing the mail-matter during transportation.
It is insisted that the return of the empty mail bags is
but part of the transportation of the mail. But certainly
Congress might provide that empty mail bags should be
differently treated than those used in the actual transportation of mailable matter. None will dispute that forwarding mail bags from their place of manufacture to

ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 207
198.

Opinion of the Court.

different points in the country for use would not constitute transportation of mail. We see no reason why
Congress may not regard empty mail bags, being returned
for further use, as no longer a part of the mails. Congress
authorized contracts for the transportation of -the mail,
but by the Act of May 27, 1908, it withdrew empty mail
bags from mail transportation and directed that they be
sent by freight or express. How then was such transportation to be compensated? Ordinarily the applicable
freight -or express rates would control. But the acts of
Congress which provided that property of the United
States should be transported at the expense of the company were in full force and effect. It is said that in the
report and action upon the legislation which took empty
mail bags from carriage as part of the mails and directed
the carriage by freight or express there is no intimation
that the result of 'such legislation would have the effect of
obtaining free transportation under the land-grant acts,
and that no such requirement is made in the act itself.
But, Congress must be presumed to have known of its
former legislation in the Acts of 1853 and 1866, and to have
passed the new laws in view of the provisions of the legislation already enacted. These statutes must be construed
together and effect given to all of them. Under the earlier
acts this railroad in consideration of benefits received, was
bound, when required, to transport troops and property
of the United States free of charge.
We have here a question concerning the transportation
of property of the United States. See Southern Pacific Co.
v. United States, 237 U. S.202, 204. The act of Congress
providing for fifty per cent. rates concerns only "army"
transportation andis not applicable to this case. See 22
Stat. 120; 1st Supp. Rev. Stats., 375, 376. The empty
mail bags were property, and belonged to the United
States. When the Government required their transportation by freight, the former legislation which accom-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

251 U. S.

panied the grant of lands to this railway company controlled the terms of carriage.
We find no error in the judgment of the Court of'Claims,
which was also the conclusion of the Comptroller of the
Treasury, 17 Comp. Dec. 749.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, dissenting.
Appellant's right to recover seems quite plain to me.
The Act of February 9, 1853, c. 59, 10 Stat. 155, granted
lands afterwards used to aid in constructing appellant's lines. Section 4-". . . The said railroad and
branches shall be and remain a public highway for the

use of the Government of the United States, free from
toll or other charge upon the transportation of any property or troops of the United States." Section 6-"That
the United States Mail shall at all times be transported
on the said road and branches, under the direction of the
Post-Office Department; at such price as Congress may
by law direct."
The Act of July 28, 1866, c. 300, 14 Stat. 338, among
other things, revived and extended the Act of 1853.
Section 1-"

.

.

.

And provided further, That all

property and troops of the United States shall at all
times be transported over said railroad and branches at
the cost, charge, and expense of the company or corporation owning or operating said road and branches respectively, when so required by the government of the United

States."
And thus it appears that one section of the statutes directs free transportation of "all property and troops of
the United States" and a wholly different section requires
transportation of the United States mail "under the direction of the Post-Office Department, at such price as Congress may by law direct."
Through the Post Office Department, the United States

ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 209
198.

MCREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

are engaged in handling the mails for pay. Their transportation is part of a well defined business. In the orderly
course and as an essential part of that business emptied
sacks are constantly being returned for further use. They
are property of the United States in a certain sense,
whether full or empty; and they are elements of the
mail whether going out or coming back.
A clear distinction between property of the United
States and United States mail is preserved by the very
language of the land-grant statutes; and, I think, Congress had no purpose-if, indeed, the power-to convert
mail into property within the meaning of these statutes
simply by directing carriage of the former in freight
trains. The purpose was to secure transportation at less
than former cost, and to such end Congress, in effect,
commanded that emptied bags, a portion of the mails
for which rapid movement is not essential, "shall be
transmitted by either freight or express" and compensation made according to the ordinary rates. Under this
interpretation, the railroad would suffer no oppressive
burden and contemplated economies would be effectuated.

