CHIPMAN, LTD. v. JEFFERY CO.
366.

Syllabus.

we agree with the District Court that "the denial of
the petition was necessarily a final judicial determination,
.

.

.based

on the identical rights" asserted in that

court and repeated here. Williams v. Bruffy, 102 U. S.
248, 255. And further, to quote the District Court,
"Such a determination is as effectual as an estoppel as
would have been a formal judgment upon issues of
fact." Calaf v. Calaf, 232 U. S. 371; Hart Steel Co. v.
Railroad Supply Co., 244 U. S. 294, 299.
The court held, and we concur, that absence of an
opinion by the Supreme Court did not affect the quality
of its decision or detract from its efficacy as a judgment
upon the questions presented, and its subsequent conclusive effect upon the rights of the Electric Company.
Therefore the decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.

CHIPMAN, LIMITED, v. THOMAS B. JEFFERY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
-FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 516.

Submitted December 8, 1919.-Decided January 19, 1920.

By the law of New York, when a foreign corporation, as a condition
to doing local business, appoints an agent upon whom process may
be served and subsequently removes from the State, service on such
agent, though his appointment stand unrevoked, will not confer
jurisdiction in an action by alocal corporation upon a contract between it and such foreign corporation but made and to be performed
in another State, when it is not shown that anything was done in
New York in the way either of performance or breach of the contract; and it is not material that the foreign corporation was there
doing business during a period when the contract was made and
should have been performed. P. 378.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

251 U. S.

Such a case must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction upon removal
to the District Court from the Supreme Court of New York. Id.
260 Fed. Rep. 856, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Daniel P. Hays for plaintiff in error. Mr. Ralph
Wolf was on the brief.
The defendant having filed an express consent that
made service upon its designated agent the equivalent
of personal service, no constitutional question is involved.
Pennsylvania Fire Ins. Co. v. Gold Issue Mining Co.,
243 U. S. 93; Gibbs v. Queen Ins. Co., 63 N. Y. 114, 128.

The offer of the State and the acceptance thereof by
the defendant constituted a contract. The agreement
was, among other things, that service could be made
upon the statutory agent until his designation was revoked. In its acceptance of the offer of the State, the
defendant became entitled to the same right to transact
business as a domestic corporation, Lancaster v. Amsterdam Improvement Co., 140 N. Y. 576, 588; and to invoke
the statute of limitations, as if it were a domestic corporation, Wehrenberg v. New York, New Haven & Hartford
R. R. Co., 124 App. Div. 205; cf. Olcott v. Tioga R. R. Co.,
20 N. Y. 210. The case is entirely different from Old
Wayne Mutual Life Assn. v. McDonough, 204 U. S. 8,
and Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 115, for the
reason that in them the foreign corporations had not
designated an agent upon whom process could be served.
The Supreme Court of New York has jurisdiction
of an action by plaintiff, a domestic corporation, against
the defendant, a foreign corporation, for a cause of
action based on contract. New York Code Civ. Proc.,
ยง 1780. Jurisdiction does not fail because the cause of
action sued upon has no relation in its origin to the business in New York. Tauza v. Susquehanna Coal Co.,

CHIPMAN, LTD. v. JEFFERY CO.
373.

375'

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

220 N. Y. 259, 268; Grant v. Cananea Consol. Copper Co.,
189 N. Y. 241.
It is equally clear that the service of the summons
upon the designated agent gave to the court jurisdiction
over the person of the defendant. New York Code Civ.
Proc., ยง 432. In the case of a designated agent no limitation of any kind is imposed. Bagdon v. Philadelphia &
Reading C. & I. Co., 217 N. Y. 432, 436. There is only
one possible distinction. In the Bagdon Case the defendant was doing business within the State of New York
at the time of service of the summons. In the case at
hand, it is conceded that when the contracts in question
were made and when the alleged breaches thereof occurred
the defendant was doing business within the State. But
ยง 432, supra, does not require, in the case of a designated
agent, that the corporation should be doing business
within the State at the time of the service of the summons.
The designation remains in effect, Woodward v. Mutual
Reserve Life Ins. Co., 178 N. Y. 485; Johnston v. Mutual
Reserve Life -Ins. Co., 104 App. Div. 550, 557. See
Mutual Reserve Life Assn. v. Phelps, 190 U. S. 147; Hunter
v. Mutual Reserve Life Ins. Co., 218 U. S. 573, 586;
Chehalis River Lumber Co. v. Empire State Surety Co.,
206 Fed. Rep. 559; and many state cases. There is no
possible distinction between this and the Bagdon Case,
supra, because here, at and during the time the contracts between the plaintiff and the defendant were
made and were in full force and effect, and at the times
when the alleged breaches thereof occurred, the defendant
was doing business within the State of New York. See
Grant v. Cananea Consol. Copper Co., 189 N. Y. 241,
247. The real question at issue is, can the defendant
surreptitiously withdraw from the State and, without
even cancelling the statutory designation, force the citizens of the State of New York to go to some far western
State to enforce their claims?

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

At the time of the service of the summons, the defendant was doing business within the State of New York, so
as to make it amenable to process. By reason of its
failure to revoke its certificate, it had a principal place
of business, as well as an agent within the State. This
was sufficient to bring the corporation within the State,
so as to render it amenable to process. Tauza v. Susquehanna Coal Co., supra; Washington-Virginia Ry. Co.
v. Real Estate Trust Co., 238 U. S. 185.
Mr. Philip B. Adams and Mr. Thomas M. Kearney
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Plaintiff in error was plaintiff in the courts below; defendant in error was defendant, and we shall refer to them
respectively as plaintiff and defendant.
The action was brought in the Supreme Court of the
State of New York and removed upon motion of the
defendant to the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York. In the latter court
defendant made a motion for an order vacating and setting
aside the service of summons, and dismissing the complaint for lack of jurisdiction of the. person of the defendant. The motion was granted and the case is here on
the jurisdictional question only.
A brief summary of the grounds of action and- the
proceedings upon the motion to dismiss is all that is
necessary. Plaintiff is a New York corporation, defendant
one under the laws of Wisconsin, and a manufacturer and
seller of motor cars known as the "Jeffery" and "Rambler" and parts thereof, and motor trucks and parts
thereof. By contracts, in writing, made in Wisconsin by
the plaintiff and defendant it was agreed that the former
should have the sole right to sell the motor cars and parts

CHIPMAN, LTD. v. JEFFERY CO.
373.

Opinion of the Court.

thereof (first cause of action) and the motor trucks and
parts thereof (second cause of action) of defendant in
Europe and certain other foreign places and to receive
certain designated percentages. The contracts as to
motor cars and their parts and the trucks and their parts,
provided that they (cars, trucks, and parts) should be
sold and delivered to plaintiff (called in the contracts the
"Distributor") at Kenosha, Wisconsin, for sale at the
designated places by plaintiff, defendant reserving the
right to fill the orders of plaintiff (Distributor) for the
cars, trucks and parts, from any of defendant's depots
in New York City. Cars and trucks purchased under the
contracts to be paid for at Kenosha. Both contracts
continued in effect to July 31, 1915.
There are allegations of performance of the contracts
by plaintiff, their non-performance by defendant whereby
plaintiff on one cause of action was entitled, it is alleged,
to $280,000 and upon the other $600,000. Judgment
is prayed for their sum, to wit, $880,000.
The District Court has certified three questions, but
as the first includes the other two we give it only as it
sufficiently presents the question at issue: "Whether
in the service of the summons, as shown by the record
herein, upon Philip B. Adams, this court acquired jurisdiction of the person of the defendant."
.Plaintiff contends for an affirmative answer and adduces
the New York statute which requires of corporations not
organized under the laws of New York as a condition of
doing business in the State to file in the office of the
secretary of state a stipulation designating "a place within
the State which is to be its principal place of business, and
designating a person upon whom process against the corporation may be served within the State," and the person
designated must consent and the designation "shall continue in force until revoked by an instrument in writing"
designating some other person.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Defendant complied with the requirements of the
statute July 6, 1914, designating 21 Park Row, New York,
as its place of business and Philip B. Adams as its agent
upon whom process might be served. The designation
and appointment have not been revoked.
It is not denied, however, that defendant had removed
from the State before service on Adams, and, as we have
stated, the contracts sued on made the place of their
performance Kenosha, Wisconsin. But, in emphasis of
the requirement of the statute, it is urged, that at all
of the times of the duration of the contracts sued on and
their breaches defendant was doing business in the State,
and at any time had the right to transact business in the
State. It is further urged, that the contracts contemplated they might be performed within the State. There
is no allegation of such performance nor that the present
causes of action arose out of acts or transactions within
the State. The other circumstances of emphasis may
be disregarded, as the validity of the service depends upon
the statute assuming it to be controlling, that is, whether
under its requirements the unrevoked designation of
Adams as an agent of defendant gave the latter constructive presence in the State. And making that assumption
of the control of the statute, which we do in deference to
counsel's contention, for light we must turn to New York
decisions, and there is scarcely ambiguity in them though
the facts in none of them included an actual absence from
the State of the corporation with which the cases were
concerned.
Bagdon v. Philadelphia& Reading Coal & Iron Co., 217
N. Y. 432, passed upon the effect of a cause of action
arising out of the State, the corporation, however, doing
business within the State, and having complied with
the statute in regard to its place of business and the designation of an agent upon whom process could be served.
But the court throughout the opinion with conscious so-

CHIPMAN, LTD. v. JEFFERY CO.
373.

Opinion of the Court.

licitude of the necessity of making the ground of its decision the fact that the corporation was doing business in
the State, dwelt upon the fact and distinguished thereby,
Old Wayne Mutual Life Assn. v. McDonough, 204 U. S. 8,
and Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 115, in both
of which the causes of action were based on transactions done outside of the States in which the suits were
brought.
Tauza v. Susquehanna Coal Co., 220 N. Y. 259, is nearer
in principle of decision than the case just commented
upon. The question of the doing of business within the
State by the coal company was in the case and was discussed. But the question was unconnected with a statutory designation of a place of business or of an agent to
receive service of process. However, there was an implication of agency in the coal company's sales agent
under other provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure of
the State and it was considered that the principle of Bagdon v. Philadelphia& Reading C. & I. Co., supra, applied.
But the court went further and left no doubt of the ground
of its decision. It said, "Unless a foreign corporation
is engaged in business within the State, it is not brought
within the State by the presence of its agents," citing and
deferring to St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Alexander,
227 U. S. 218. And further said, "The essential thing
is that the corporation shall have come into the State."
If prior cases have a different bent they must be considered
as overruled, as was recognized in Dollar Co. v. Canadian
Car & Foundary Co., 220 N. Y. 270, 277.
In resting the case on New York decisions we do not
wish to be understood that the validity of such service
as here involved would not be of federal cognizance
whatever the decision of a state court, and refer to Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; St Louis Southwestern Ry. Co.
v. Alexander, supra; Philadelphia & Reading Ry. Co. v.
McKibbin, 243 U. S. 264; Meisukas v. Greenough Red

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Ash Coal Co., 244 U. S. 54; People's Tobacco Co. v. American Tobacco Co., 246 U. S. 79.
It follows that the District Court did not have jurisdiction of defendant and its order and judgment dismissing
the complaint is
Affirmed.

STROUD v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 276.

Petition for rehearing.

Decided January 19, 1920.

Possible error in overruling a challenge for cause in this case was not
prejudicial, in view of the number of peremptory challenges allowed
to, and their use by, the accused, and the absence of any indication
that the jury was not impartial. The former decision, ante, 15, reexamined on this point and approved.
Rehearing denied.

Mr. Martin J. O'Donnell and Mr. Isaac B. Kimbrell,
for plaintiff in error, in support of the petition.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court, by
MR. JUSTICE DAY.

In this proceeding on November 24, 1919, this court
affirmed the judgment of the United States District
Court for the District of Kansas rendered upon a verdict
convicting the plaintiff in error of murder in the first degree. Ante, 15.
A petition for rehearing has been presented. It has
been considered, and 'we find occasion to notice only so

