OCTOBER TERM, 1919..
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

gress has consented that contracts, express or implied,
may be judicially enforced against theGovernment of the
United States. But such a liability can be created only
by some officer of the Government lawfully invested with
power to make such contracts or to perform acts from
which they may be lawfully implied. Langford v. United

States, 101 U. S. 341, 345; United States v. Buffalo Pitts Co.,
234 U. S. 228; Tempel v. United States, 248 U. S. 121;
Ball Engineering Co. v. J. G. White & Co., 250 U. S. 55.
The foregoing discussion makes it palpably plain that
no contract, express or implied, to pay the disputed subsidy, was made by any officer of the United States, and
the judgment of the Court of Claims is therefore

Affirmed.

NAPA VALLEY ELECTRIC COMPANY v. RAILROAD COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 401.

Argued December 12, 1919.-Decided January 19, 1920.

Under § 67 of the Public Utilities Act of California, as construed by
the Supreme Court of the State, a petition to that court for a writ
of review to bring up proceedings of the Board of Railroad Commissioners in which rates for electric power were fixed in alleged
violation of constitutional rights and excess of the Board's jurisdiction, may be disposed of upon the merits, by an order simply refusing the writ, if the facts are fully stated in the petition, the
provisions for issuing such writ and for subsequent decision upon the
record from the Board not being mandatory in such cases. P. 370.
In a suit brought in the District Court to enjoin enforcement of rates
fixed by such Board, it will be presumed that a petition, not in the
record, upon which the state Supreme Court refused a writ of review,

NAPA VALLEY CO. v. R. R. COMM.
366.

Opinion of the Court.

exhibited the Board's proceedings and presented the questions
which that court was empowered to decide, viz., whether the Board
pursued its authority and whether any constitutional right, state or
federal, was violated; and the order refusing the writ will be deemed
conclusive of such questions, although not accompanied by an opinion of the state court. P. 372.
257 Fed. Rep. 197, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. D. L. Beard, with whom Mr. Milton T. U'Ren
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Douglas Brookman for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Appeal from decree of the District Court dismissing
bill of appellant, herein called the Electric Company,
upon motion of appellees, herein called the Commission.
The ground of the motion and the decree sustaining it
was that it appeared from the averments of the bill that
the controversy it stated was res judicata. The bill is
long but the grounds of it can be stated with fair brevity.
The Electric Company is a California corporation and
has been engaged for more than ten years in supplying
electricity (called in the bill electric energy) for domestic
use in the town of St. Helena and vicinity and the Calistoga Electric Company, also a California corporation,
has been for seven years a distributing .agency of the
Electric Company and the latter is not as to the Calistoga
Company a public utility. By virtue of certain circumstances the Electric Company entered into a contract
with one E. L. Armstrong by which it agreed not to extend
its lines into Calistoga territory, and Armstrong agreed
to buy from it all of the electricity to be sold by him for
18 years. At that time the Electric Company under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

laws of California had a right to extend its lines and become a competitor of other companies or individuals.
September 14, 1911, the Calistoga Company became
the successor in interest of Armstrong and to his rights
and obligations under the contract with the Electric
Company, and the Calistoga Company acknowledged the
fact of such succession and continued to buy its electricity
from the Electric Company at the rates set forth in the
contract,. until November 18, 1913, when it petitioned
the Commission to set aside the contract and compel the
Electric Company to accept other rates than those mentioned in the contract.
The Electric Company answered the petition, set up
the contract and alleged that any change in its rates would
be a violation of § 10, Article I, of the Constitution of the
United States and the Fourteenth Amendment thereto.
January 24, 1914, the Commission instituted an investigation on its own motion which with the petition
of the Calistoga Company was consolidated. The petitions were heard together upon evidence and submitted.
The Commission subsequently made an order fixing
rates much less than those of the contract.
June 20, 1914, the Electric Company filed a petition
for rehearing, setting up its rights under the Constitution
of the United States. A rehearing was denied.
May 1, 1914, the Electric Company and the Calistoga
Company entered into an agreement fixing rates subject
to the approval of the Commission which the Calistoga
Company agreed to secure. It did secure an informal
approval of them and paid them until June 27, 1916.
The rates fixed by the Commission never became effective and therefore the Electric Company did not petition for a review of them by the Supreme Court of the
State nor commence proceedings in any court of the
United States to enjoin the order establishing them or
to have it set aside as null and void.

NAPA VALLEY CO. v. R. R. COMM.
366.

Opinion of the Court.

June 27, 1916, the Calistoga Company again petitioned
the Commission to establish other rates than those fixed
in the agreement of that company with the Electric
Company. Tfie latter company filed a counter petition
to have established the rates fixed in the contract of May
1, 1914 (reduced to writing September 15, 1914), and the
petition and that of the Calistoga Company came on to
be heard and after evidence adduced the Commission,
November 15, 1916, reduced the rates fixed in the written contract of September 15, 1914, and made the reduced
rates effective December 20, 1916.
. A rehearing was denied May 24, 1917, and on June 20,
1917, the Electric Company duly filed a petition in the
Supreme Court of the State of California praying that a
Writ of review issue commanding the Commission on a
day named to certify to the court a full and complete
record of the proceedings before the Commission, and
that upon a return of the writ the orders and decisions
of the Commission be reversed, vacated and annulied
upon the ground that they violated the company's rights
under the Constitution of the United States, particularly
under § 10, Article I, and under § 1 of Article XIV of the
Amendments thereto. The Supreme Court of California
denied the "Petition for a Writ of Review and refused to
issue a Writ of Review, as prayed for in said Petition."
On or about January 27, 1918, the California Light
& Telephone Company became a party to the contracts
between the Electric Company and the Calistoga Company by reason of conveyances from the latter company.
In the present bill it is alleged that the orders and decisions of the Commission were illegal, were in excess of
its jurisdiction and that the Electric Company has no
adequate remedy at law; and it prays a decree declaring
the orders and decisions null and void, that they be enjoined of enforcement or of being made the basis of suits
against the company to enforce them.

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

The Commission and other defendants moved to dismiss on the ground that it appeared from the allegations
of the bill that" the subject matter thereof is res judicata"
and that there was no ground stated entitling the company
to the relief prayed. The motion was granted and to the
decree adjudging a dismissal of the bill this writ of error
is directed.
The District Court (Judge Van Fleet) based its ruling
upon the allegations of the bill that the Electric Company
filed in the Supreme Court a petition for a review of the
decision and order of the Commission and for their annulment, and that the Supreme Court denied the petition.
The Electric Company to the ruling of the court opposes
the contention that the Supreme Court denied the company's "petition for a preliminary writ and refused to
even cause the record in the case certified by the Commission to be brought up," and therefore "simply refused
to entertain jurisdiction of the controversy." And, it is
the further contention, that the court could neither affirm
nor set aside the orders of the Commission until the record
was certified to it and the parties were before it and after
formal hearing in the matter.
The contention is based on § 67 of the Public Utilities
Act of the State. The section is too long to quote. It
is part of the procedure provided by the State for the
execution of its policy in regard to the public utilities
of the State, and affords a review of the action of the
Commission regulating them. It is quite circumstantial
and explicit. It provides for a review of the action of
the Commission by writ of certiorari or review from
the Supreme Court of the State which "shall direct the
commission to certify its record in the case to the court,"
the cause to "be heard on the record of the commission
as certified to by it." No other evidence is to be received
and the review is confined to an inquiry "whether the
commission has regularly pursued its authority" or

NAPA VALLEY CO. v. R. R. COMM.
366.

Opinion of the Court.

whether its order or decision "violates any right of the
petitioner under the constitution of the United States
or of the State of California." The findings and conclusions of the Commission on questions of fact are to
be final. The Commission and the parties have the right
of appearance and upon the hearing the court "shall
enter judgment either affirming or setting aside the
order or decision of the commission." The Civil Code
of the State is made applicable so far as it is not inconsistent with the prescribed proceedings and no court of
the State except the Supreme Court to the extent specified
shall have jurisdiction over any order or decision of the
Commission except "that the writ of mandamus shall
lie from the supreme court to the commission in all
proper cases."
These provisions, counsel insist were not observed
and that therefore there was not and could not have been
"an adjudication of the controversy" by the Supreme
Court. There was nothing, it is insisted, but the Electric
Company's petition before the court, and that none of
the essential requirements of § 67 were observed. No
writ of review was issued-none certified by the Commission or returned, no return day fixed or hearing had
on a certified record, no appearance of the parties, no
order of the court affirming or setting aside the Commission's order. In other words, the substance of the
contention is that the court instead of hearing refused
to hear, instead of adjudicating refused to adjudicate,
and that from this negation of action or decision there
cannot be an assertion of action or decision with the
estopping force of res judicata assigned to it by the District Court.
Counsel to sustain the position that he has assumed
and contends for insists upon a literal reading of the
statute and a discussion of the elements of res judicata.
We need not follow counsel intQ the latter, They are

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

familiar and necessarily cannot be put out of mind, and
the insistence upon the literalism of the statute meets
in resistance the common and, at times, necessary practice,
of courts to determine upon the face of a pleading what
action should be taken upon it. The petition is not in
the record. We may presume it was circumstantial in
its exposition of the proceedings before the Commission
and of the latter's decisions and orders, and exhibited
and submitted to the court the questions it was authorized
to entertain-whether the Commission "pursued its
authority, including a determination of whether the
order or decision" violated "any right" of the company
"under the constitution of the United States or of the
State of California."
Whether upon such an exhibition of the proceedings
and questions the court was required to pursue the details of the section or decide upon the petition was a
matter of the construction of the section and the procedure under it. And the Supreme Court has so decided.
Ghriest v. Railroad Commission, 170 California,' 63;
Mt. Konocti Light & Power Co. v. Thelen, 170 California, 468; E. Clemens Horst Co. v. Railroad Commission, 175 California, 660; Hooper & Co. v. Railroad
Commission, Id. 811. In those cases the applications
for writs of certiorari were denied, which was tantamount
to a decision of the court that the-orders and decisions
of the Commission did not exceed its authority or violate any right of the several petitioners under the Constitution of the United States or of the State of California.
And so with the denial of the petition of the Electric
Company-it had like effect and was the exercise of
the judicial powers of the court. And we repeat, to
enable the invocation of such powers was the purpose
of § 67, and they could be exercised upon the display
in the petition of the proceedings before the Commission
and of the grounds upon which they were assailed, And

CHIPMAN, LTD. v. JEFFERY CO.
366.

Syllabus.

we agree with the District Court that "the denial of
the petition was necessarily a final judicial determination,
.

.

.based

on the identical rights" asserted in that

court and repeated here. Williams v. Bruffy, 102 U. S.
248, 255. And further, to quote the District Court,
"Such a determination is as effectual as an estoppel as
would have been a formal judgment upon issues of
fact." Calaf v. Calaf, 232 U. S. 371; Hart Steel Co. v.
Railroad Supply Co., 244 U. S. 294, 299.
The court held, and we concur, that absence of an
opinion by the Supreme Court did not affect the quality
of its decision or detract from its efficacy as a judgment
upon the questions presented, and its subsequent conclusive effect upon the rights of the Electric Company.
Therefore the decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.

CHIPMAN, LIMITED, v. THOMAS B. JEFFERY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
-FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 516.

Submitted December 8, 1919.-Decided January 19, 1920.

By the law of New York, when a foreign corporation, as a condition
to doing local business, appoints an agent upon whom process may
be served and subsequently removes from the State, service on such
agent, though his appointment stand unrevoked, will not confer
jurisdiction in an action by alocal corporation upon a contract between it and such foreign corporation but made and to be performed
in another State, when it is not shown that anything was done in
New York in the way either of performance or breach of the contract; and it is not material that the foreign corporation was there
doing business during a period when the contract was made and
should have been performed. P. 378.

