BIRGE-FORBES CO. v. HEYE.
315.

Syllabus.

ruling that the effect of the Act of 1910 was to exclude
the possibility thereafter of applying the state law was
rested, not alone upon the special provisions of the Act of
1910 relating to unrepeated messages, but upon the
necessary effect of the general provisions of that act bringing telegraph companies under the control of the Interstate
Commerce Act. The contention as to the continuance
of state power here made is therefore adversely foreclosed.
Indeed, in the previous case the principal authorities here
relied upon to sustain the continued right to exert state
power after the passage of the Act of 1910 were disapproved and various decisions of state courts of last resort
to the contrary, one or more dealing with the subject now
in hand, were approvingly cited.
Reversed and remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

BIRGE-FORBES COMPANY v. HEYE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 76.

Argued November 13, 14, 1919.-Decided January 12, 1920.

A judgment for an alien enemy is objectionable only in so far as it may
give aid and comfort to the other side in the war. P. 323.
A judgment recovered in the District Court by an alien enemy before
he became such, the satisfaction of which was delayed by the other

party's appeal until the intervention of war, may properly be reviewed, during the war, and affirmed with directions that the money
be paid to the clerk of the trial court to be turned over to the Alien
Property Custodian; and a motion to dismiss or suspend the action
is correctly denied. Id.
Where a broker who became liable for his principal on several arbitration awards sued for their aggregate amount and was given a directed
verdict and a judgment against the principal for the part which he

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Petitioner.

251 U. S.

had then paid, and, having paid the remainder, sued again to recover
that also, held, that the former judgment was conclusive in the
second action as to the validity of the awards, it appearing, not only
from the petition and judgment, but from other parts of the record
of the former case, including the answer, the judge's charge and the
opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals, that the validity of all the
awards alike was there in issue and was sustained. P. 323.
In determining whether a former judgment, given upon a directed
verdict, involved the same issues of fact as are presented in a second
action before the same judge in which both parties submit the point
by requests for a peremptory instruction, especial weight attaches to
the judge's decision. P. 324.
The objection that the deposition of a plaintiff in the District Court
cannot be taken on his own behalf is waived by a stipulation waiving
time and notice and allowing the officer to proceed to take and return
it on interrogatories. Id.
That in the return of foreign depositions the officer commissioned
did not put them into the mail and certify to the fact on the envelopes, as required by a state law, is immaterial where the war
made compliance impossible and where the officer transmitted them
in the only practicable way, though an American consul to the State
Department and thence by mail to the clerk. Id.
The six months' limitation of the German Civil Code, § 477, on claims
for defect of quality in goods sold, does not apply to awards of arbitration based on such claims. P. 325.
In an action to recover amounts paid on defendant's account in Germany, it is not error to take the value of the German mark at par
in the absence of evidence that it had depreciated when the plaintiff
made the payments. Id.
248 Fed. Rep. 636, affirmed.
9

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry 0. Head, with whom Mr. Jesse F. Holt was
on the briefs, for petitioner, made the following points:
The court below should have sustained the motion to
abate the suit, and postpone its consideration until the
end of the war, the plaintiff being an alien enemy. The
principle is illustrated by the discussion in Hanger v.
Abbott, 6 Wall. 532; Bishop v. Jones, 28 Texas, 294, 316;
Plettenberg, Holthaus & Co. v, Kalmon & Co., 241 Fed. Rep.

BIRGE-FORBES CO. v. HEYE.
317.

Argument for Petitioner.

605; Howes v. Chester, 33 Geoigia, 89; and Corpus Juris,
117. In Owens v. Hannay, 9 Cranch, 180, nothing was
said of this matter and the ruling was confined to a question concerning jurors. Watts, Watts & Co. v. Unione
Austriaca, 248 U. S. 9, is direct upon this point.
The acts of Congress do not authorize the taking of the
deposition of a party to a law case in the District Court
in advance of trial. By the Act of 1906, 34 Stat. 618,
competency of witnesses is determined by the law of the
State. By the Texas law, Art. 3688, a party is competent
as a witness. Section 863, U. S. Rev. Stats., provides for
taking depositions de bene esse within the United States;
but it has been often decided that this does not authorize
depositions abroad, and that authority for them must be
by dedimus obtained from the court, under § 866, to be
awarded or withheld in the court's discretion. United
States v. Parrott,Fed. Cas. No. 15,999.
In this case, sole reliance was on the Act of 1892, 27
Stat. 7, which provides that depositions of witnesses in
the federal courts may be taken "in the mode prescribed"
by the state laws.
As to whether these federal statutes authorize the taking
of depositions of parties before the trial, or are confined
to ordinary witnesses, there is much difference of opinion.
See Blood v. Morrin, 140 Fed. Rep. 918; Hanks Dental
Assn. v. International Tooth Crown Co., 194 U. S. 303;
Union Pacific Ry. v. Botsford, 141 U. S. 250; Ex parte
Fisk, 113 U. S. 724; Frost v. Barber, 173 Fed. Rep. 847;
Simpkins' A Federal Equity Suit, 3d ed., 506 et seq.
Conceding that this may be done within the United States,
the authority could come only through a dedimus, or the
Act of 1892, supra, and with regard to the latter there is
an important question whether it gives the right or is
restricted to the mode and manner of taking after authority to take has been secured from the court.
The Act of 1892 only admits a deposition, even in this

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Petitioner.

251 U. S.

country, when it has been taken in the mode prescribed
by the laws of the State. It is conceded that the depositions here in question were not returned in compliance
with the Texas Statutes. Art. 3660 (2284) (2229). The
decision in this case, in conflict with Pullman Co. v. Jordan,
218 Fed. Rep. 573, is to the effect that the court has the
power to substitute another mode which it thinks just as
good; notwithstanding the irregularities, the depositions
are to be received unless the complaining party is able to
show they have been tampered with. This is not in accord
with the Texas decisions. Garnerv. Cutler, 28 Texas, 175;
Laird v. Ivens, 45 Texas, 621; Barber v. Geer, 94 Texas,
581, 584. The construction of the state statute is for the
state court. Smiley v. Kansas, 196 U. S. 447, 455; Consolidated Rendering Co. v. Vermont, 207 U. S. 541, 551.
All that the stipulation waived was the taking of the
deposition upon the original instead of copies of the interrogatories, together with a waiver of the time, notice and
copy of the interrogatories, which would have been necessary had they been served upon the defendant in the
usual way. Nothing was waived as to the manner of taking and returning the depositions; and to give the agreement the construction given it by the trial judge would
absolutely preclude attorneys from making any waiver
of any kind with reference to the taking of depositions, as
it would subject them to the peril of having evidence used
against them which had been taken and returned in the
most informal and unreliable way.
All of the authorities agree that a judgment is res
judicata in a second suit only as to matters that were
directly presented and decided in the first, and is not res
judicata as to matters which might have been decided, but
were not in fact passed upon, no matter how conclusive
the evidence may have been. Russell v. Place, 94 U. S.
606; Landon v. Clark, 221 Fed. Rep. 841; In re William S.
Butler & Co., 207 Fed. Rep. 705; Smith v. Mosier, 169

BIRGE-FORBES CO. v. HEYE.
317.

321

Argument for Petitioner.

Fed. Rep. 430, 446; McAnally v. Haynie, 17 Tex. Civ.
App. 521. Here it must be conceded that all that was
decided in the first suit was that enough valid awards were
made to require the payment by plaintiff of $36,610.96.
There was no decision as to any particular awards, or that
any awards over that amount were made. Had there
been only a single award and various sums depending on
this award, the suing for and recovery of a single one of
these sums, to which the adjudication of the existence of
the award was necessary, would have been an adjudication
of its existence in a suit brought for recovery of any or all
of the other sums. Mason Lumber Co. v. Buchtel, 101
U. S. 638. In the instant case, however, there was no single award. On the contrary, there were 160 original awards
and 34 appeal awards, making 194 in all. The awards were
made in behalf of different persons; on different shipments,
arriving at different times; on different claims, where there
were different claimants, and by different arbitrators.
Plaintiff's claim was barred by § 477 of the German
Code.1 This was made certain by expert testimony and,
if the court is not bound by that, is correct on the face of
the statute.
There is no legal presumption that the value of German
marks in Texas was their par value. The burden is on
him who sues upon an obligation payable in a foreign
currency to allege and prove as a part of his case the value
of the foreign currency in the currency of the country
where the trial is being had. Kermott v. Ayer, 11 Michigan,
181; Modawell v. Holmes, 40 Alabama, 391, 405; Feemster
1 "The claim of the buyer for rescission of sale or for reduction of
purchase price, as well as the claim for damages on account of defects
in a guaranteed quality is outlawed in so far as the seller has not fraudulently concealed the defect, in the case of movable things, in six months
from the delivery of the goods; in the case of real estate in one year
from the transfer of possession. This limitation period can be extended

by agreement."

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

v. Ringo, 5 T. B. Mon. 336; Hogue v. Williamson, 85
Texas, 553; 2 Wharton on Evidence, 3d ed., § 335; 13
Encyc. of Evidence, 425; 23 Cyc. 791, 792.
Mr. Robert M. Rowland, with whom Mr. Newton Hance
Hassiterwas on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit by Heye, a cotton broker in Bremen,
against the petitioner, a cotton exporter in Texas, to
recover sums that Heye had to pay on its account. The
payments were made upon cotton sold by Heye as the
petitioner's agent, to different buyers, for alleged failure
of the cotton to correspond to the description upon which
the price was based. In pursuance of the contracts and
the rules of the Bremen Cotton Exchange the claims of
the buyers were submitted to arbitration, which resulted in
awards against the plaintiff for a total of 312,749.30
German marks, alleged to be equal to about $74,820.52.
Before the present suit was brought another one had been
carried to judgment in the same district, in which that
amount was claimed. At that time Heye had paid only
$36,610.96 of the awards. The judge directed a verdict
for the sum that the plaintiff had paid and another item
not now in issue. Heye now has paid the whole and brings
this suit to recover the amount of the later payment not
embraced in the former judgment. He prevailed in the
District Court, and the judgment was affirmed with a
modification as to payment by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 248 Fed. Rep. 636. 160 C. C. A. 536. The main
question on the merits is whether the former judgment
was conclusive as to the validity of the awards, but that
upon which the certiorari was granted was a preliminary
one, as is shown by the fact that certiorari was denied in
the former suit, 234 U. S. 759. After the case had been

BIRGE-FORBES CO. v. HEYE.
317.

Opinion of the Court.

taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals a motion was made
to dismiss or suspend the suit on the ground that Heye
had become an alien enemy by reason of the declaration
of wax between Germany and the United States. The
Circuit Court of Appeals, however, affirmed the judgment
with the modification that it should be paid to the clerk
of the trial court and by him turned over to the Alien
Property Custodian, with further details not material
here.
Upon the last-mentioned question, although it seemed
proper that it should be set at rest, we can feel no doubt.
The plaintiff had got his judgment before war was declared,
and the defendant, the petitioner, had delayed the collection of it by taking the case up. Such a case was disposed of without discussion by Chief Justice Marshall
speaking for the Court in Owens v. Hannay, 9 Cranch, 180.
Kershaw v. Kelsey, 100 Massachusetts, 561, 564. There is
nothing "mysteriously noxious" (Coolidge v. Inglee, 13
Massachusetts, 26, 37) in a judgment for an alien enemy.
Objection to it in these days goes only so far as it would
give aid and comfort to the other side. Hanger v. Abbott,
6 Wall. 532, 536. M'Connell v. Hector, 3 B. & P. 113, 114.
Such aid and comfort were prevented by the provision
that the sum recovered should be paid over to the Alien
Property Custodian, and the judgment in this respect
was correct. When the alien enemy is defendant justice
to him may require the suspension of the case. Watts,
Watts & Co. v. Unione Austriaca di Navigazione, 248 U. S.
9, 22.
On the merits the first question is whether the former
judgment was conclusive as to the validity of the awards,
assuming them to have been identified as the same that
were sued upon in the former case. Taking merely the
former declaration and judgment it could not be said with
certainty that some of the awards might not have been
held invalid and that the defendant had not satisfied the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

whole obligation found to exist. But we have before us
the fact that the Court directed a verdict and the charge.
From the latter, as also from the answer, apart from a
general denial, it appears that the awards were dealt with
as a whole and that the objections to them were general.
The objections were overruled, and the Court assumed
thatthe awards were obligatory, but cut down the amount
to be recovered to the sum that had been paid. The case
went to the Circuit Court of Appeals and the same things
appear in the report of the case there. 212 Fed. Rep. 112.
128 C. C. A. 628. (Certiorari denied. 234 U. S. 759.)
In the present case both parties moved the Court to
direct a verdict. Beuttell v. Magone, 157 U. S. 154, 157.
Empire State Cattle Co. v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe
Ry. Co., 210 U. S. 1, 8. Taking that and the fact that the
same judge seems to have presided in both suits into
account we should be slow to disturb his decision that the
issue was determined in the former one if we felt more
doubt than we do. But we are satisfied the decision of the
two Courts below was right.
We shall deal summarily with two or three highly
technical arguments urged against the affirmation of the
judgment. One is that the depositions of Heye and a
witness were not returned as required by the Texas statute
providing for taking them, with a suggestion that, as Heye
was a party, his deposition could not be taken at all. As
to the latter point it is to be noticed that it did not present
an attempt to fish for information from the opposite
party and that an agreement was made that "time, notice
and copy are hereby waived," and that the "officer may
proceed to take and return the depositions of the witness
on the original direct and cross interrogatories, but commission is not waived." Whatever may be the general
rule, (as to which see Blood v. Morrin, 140 Fed. Rep. 918,)
we think that this objection is not fairly open. As to the
mode of return not having followed strictly the Texas

BIRGE-FORBES CO. v. HEYE.
317.

Opinion of the Court.

statute, because the officer to whom the commission was
directed did not put the depositions into the mail and
certify on the envelopes that he had done so, a sufficient
answer is that that course was impossible owing to the
war, and that the officer did transmit the depositions
in the only practicable way. He gave them to an American consul and had them transmitted to the Department
of State and then through the mail to the clerk. The
integrity of the depositions is not questioned, the statute
was complied with in substance, and justice is not to be
defeated now by a matter of the barest form.
We see no error in the finding that § 477 of the German
Civil Code did not bar the claim. Assuming the question
to be open the Court was warranted in finding that a six
months' limitation to claims for defect of quality did not
apply where the claims had been submitted to arbitration
and passed upon. The same is true with regard to the
taking the value of the German mark at par in the absence
of evidence that it had depreciated at the time of the
plaintiff's payments. On the whole case our conclusion
is that the judgment should be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

