OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

fully considered. In my judgment the principles there
laid down if followed now would make a very material
difference in the steel industry. Instead of one dominating
corporation, with scattered competitors, there would be
competitive conditions throughout the whole trade which
would carry into effect the policy of the law.
It seems to me that if this act is to be given effect, the
bill, under the findings of fact made by the court, should
not be dismissed, and the cause should be remanded to
the District Court, where a plan of effective and final
dissolution of the corporations should be enforced by a
decree framed for that purpose.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concur

in this dissent.

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
VOGEL v. UNITED STATES.
WERNER v. UNITED STATES.
DARKOW v. UNITED STATES.
LEMKE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Nos. 270-274.

Argued October 21, 1919.-Decided March 1, 1920.

The Espionage Act is constitutional. P. 470. Su arman v. United
States, 249 U. S. 182.
As applied to any of several defendants in a criminal case, the provision
of Jud. Code, § 287, that all sha!l be deemed a single party for the

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
466.

467

Counsel for Parties.

purpose of peremptory challenges, is constitutional. P. 470. Stilson
v. United States, 250 U. S. 583.
In a prosecution of several under the Espionage Act, held that the
evidence was sufficient to warrant conviction as to some but not as
to the others. Pp. 470, 478.
In a prosecution under the Espionage Act for wilfully making and
conveying false reports and statements with intent to promote the
success of Germany and obstruct the recruiting and enlistment
service of the United States to the injury of the United States in the
war with Germany, where there was evidence that persons conducting a German-language newspaper systematically took news
despatches from other papers and published them with omissions,
,additions, and changes, held, that the falsity of such publications,
within the meaning of the statute, depended on the fact and purpose of the alterations and the resulting tendency of the articles
to weaken zeal and patriotism and thus hamper the United
States in raising armies and conducting the war; that the determination of such falsity, the evidence being sufficient, was clearly
for the jury and not for the court; and that the court rightly
,allowed the jury to have recourse to their general knowledge
of the war and war conditions in making such determination.
'P. 471.
The constitutional provision as to liberty of speech and press does
not require or authorize the court, wherever criminal abuse of
those rights is charged, to override a verdict of guilty by substituting its own opinion of the evidence for that of the jury.
P. 474.
Evidence sufficient to sustain any one of several counts will sustain a
conviction and sentence upon all, if the sentence does not exceed that
which might lawfully have been imposed under any one of them.
P. 482. Abrams v. United States, 250 U. S. 616.
254 Fed. Rep.'135, affirmed in part and reversed in part.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William A. Gray and Mr. Henry John Nelson for

plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart, with whom The
Solicitor General and Mr. W. C. Herron were on the brief,

for the United States.

OCTOBER, TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Indictment in nine counts under the Espionage Act.
Preliminary to indicating the special offenses we may say
that the indictment charges that at the dates mentioned
therein the Philadelphia Tageblatt and the Philadelphia
Sonntagsblatt were newspapers printed and published in
the German language in Philadelphia by the Philadelphia
Tageblatt Association, a Pennsylvania corporation of
which defendants were officers; Peter Schaefer being
president, Vogel treasurer, Werner chief editor, Darkow
managing editor, and Lemke business manager.
That on the dates mentioned in the indictment the
United States was at war with the Imperial German Government and the defendants "knowingly, wilfully and
unlawfully" "caused to be printed, published and circulated in and through" one or other of those newspapers,
false reports and statements of certain news items or
despatches purporting to be from foreign places, or otherwise violated the Espionage Act through editorials or
other published matter.
In count one the charge is that the intent was "to promote the success of the enemies of the United States, to
wit, the said Imperial German Government."
In counts two, three and four the charge is the obstruction of the "recruiting and enlistment service of the
United States, to the injury of the United States."
In count five the purpose of publication is charged
to be the making of false reports and statements with
intent to promote the success of the enemies of the
United States.
In counts six, seven and eight there are charges of intent
to like purpose.
Count nine charges a conspiracy entered into by defendants to be executed through the agency of the two

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
466.

Opinion of the Court.

newspapers for the purpose (a) to make false reports and
statements with intent to interfere with the military and
naval operations and success of the United States and to
promote the success of its enemies; (b) to cause insubordination, disloyalty and mutiny in the military and naval
forces of the United States; (c) to obstruct the recruiting
and enlistment service of the United States. And there
were specifications in support of the charges.
Demurrers were opposed toothe indictment which stated
in detail the insufficiency of the indictment to constitute
offenses. The demurrers were overruled, the court considering that the grounds of attack upon the indictment
could be raised at the trial.
The defendants were then arraigned and pleaded not
guilty and when called for trial moved for a severance
urging as the reason that the courts had ruled that defendants when tried jointly must join in "their challenge
to jurors.'" Counsel in effect said they contested the
ruling and considered the statute upon which it was based
to be "in derogation of the individual's rights, guaranteed
to him by the Constitution."
Other grounds for severance were urged but the court
denied the motion and to the ruling each of the defendants
excepted. In fortification of the motion for severance, at
the selection of the jury, counsel, in succession for each
defendant, challenged particular jurors peremptorily, expressing at the same time the acceptance by the other defendants of the challenged jurors. After ten such challenges had been made counsel interposed a peremptory
challenge to other jurors in behalf of all of the defendants,
stating as reasons that they "collectively" were not
"bound by what their co-defendants may have done with
respect to any particular juror, and that, therefore, they
are still within their rights." The court denied the challenge, ruling that under the provisions of the act of Congress "all the defendants will be deemed a single party,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.'
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

and ten challenges having been exercised in the aggregate,
the right of challenge is exhausted."
Defendants excepted and the trial proceeded resulting
in a verdict as follows: Schaefer and Vogel guilty on count
nine only; Werner on counts one, two, four and nine;
Darkow on one, three, five, six and nine; Lemke on count
nine only.
Motions for arrest of judgment and for a new trial were
made and overruled and defendants were sentenced to
various terms of imprisonment.
The case is here upon writ of error directly to the District Court as involving constitutional questions.
It is conceded that the constitutionality of the Espionage Act has been sustained (Sugarman v. United
States, 249 U. S. 182), but the constitutionality of the
Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1166, § 287, by which
several defendants may be treated as one party for the
purpose of peremptory challenges, is attacked. Its constitutionality is established by Stilson v. United States,
250 U. S.583.
The other assignments of error are: (1) The Government failed to prove the charge of making false statements
as the same was made in the indictment and that therefore
the court erred in refusing to instruct the jury to acquit
upon the counts charging the offense. (2) "In passing
upon the question of falsity of the despatches as published by the appellants and in passing upon any other
questions which are a matter of public knowledge and
general information" the court erred in instructing the
jury that they had "the right to call upon the fund of
general information which" was in their "keeping."
(3) The court erred in refusing to instruct the jury to
render a verdict of not guilty uponall of the counts in case
of each of the defendants.
Assignments one and three may be considered together.
They both depend upon an appreciation of the evidence

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
466.

Opinion of the Court.

although assignment one is more particular as to the
offense charged. But neither can be discussed without a
review of the evidence and a detailed estimation of its
strength, direct and inferential. That, however, is impossible as the evidence occupies over thiee hundred pages
of the record and counsel 'have not given us an analysis or
compendium of it, but have thrust upon us a transcript of
the stenographer's notes of the trial which, counsel for the
Government aptly says "presents" of the case "a picture
of a certain sort, but it is a picture which is constantly out
of focus, being either larger than the reality or smaller."
However, we have accepted the labor it imposed and have
considered the parts of the evidence in their proper proportions and relation and brought them to an intelligible
focus, and are of opinion that the court rightfully refused
the requested instructions except as to the defendants
Schaefer and Vogel. As to them we do not think that
there was substantial evidence to sustain the conviction.
They were acquitted, we have seen, of all the individual
and active offenses, and found guilty only on the ninth
count-the charge of conspiracy.
The second assignment of error is somewhat confusedly
expressed. It, however, presents an exception to the
charge of the court as to what the jurors were entitled to
consider as matters of public knowledge and general
information. Counsel apparently urge against the charge
that it submitted all the accusations of the indictment to
the proof of the public knowledge and general information that the jurors possessed. The charge is not open
to the contention, and, as discussion is precluded except
through a consideration of the instructions in their
.entirety, we answer the contention by a simple declaration of dissent from it based, however, we may say,
on a consideration of the instructions as a whole not
in fragments detached and isolated from their explanations and qualifications. Counsel at the trial attempted

OCTOBER TERM

1919.

Opinion of the Court.

,
251 U. S.

to assign to the charge the generality they now assert and
it was rejected.
It is difficult to reach or consider the particulars of
counsels' contention, the foundation of which seems to be
that the indictment charged the falsification of the
"despatches," and that, therefore, the Government must
prove the falsification of them. What counsel mean by
"falsification," is not easy to represent, they conceding
there was proof that "the articles which were published
differed from the articles in the papers from which they
were copied,"\ but contending no evidence was offered of
what was contained in the original despatches of which the
publications purported to be copies. And again counsel
say "the falsity, as it has been called, which was proven
against the defendants was that the articles which were
published differed from the articles in the papers from
which they were copied." The charge and proof, therefore, were of alterations-giving the "despatches" by a'
change or characterization a meaning that they did not
originally bear-a meaning that weakened the spirit of
recruiting and destroyed or lessened that zeal and animation necessary or helpful to raise and operate our armies in'
the then pending war. And there could be no more powerful or effective instruments of evil than two German newspapers organized and conducted as these papers were
organized and conducted.
Such being the situation and the defendants having
testified in their own behalf, and having opportunity of
explanation of the changes they made of the articles which
they copied, the court instructed the jury as follows:
"In passing upon this question of falsity and in passing
upon this question of intent and in passing upon, of course,
the question of whether or not we are at war, you are permitted to use your general knowledge. I will withdraw the
reference to 'intent,' but in passing upon the question of
the falsity of these publications, in passing upon the ques-

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
466.

Opinion of the Court.

tion whether we are at war, and in passing upon any other
questions which are in like manner a matter of public
knowledge and of general information, you have the right
to call upon the fund of general information which is in
your keeping."
The criticism counsel make of the charge is that "without any proof whatsoever, he [the judge] permitted them
[the jury] to apply their general knowledge in determining
whether the despatches published by the defendants contained false statements." Indeed counsel go further, and
insist that the charge "gave to the jury an unlimited right
to use any general information at their disposal in reaching their verdict." The charge itself refutes such sweeping
characterization. Nor is it justified. The court said,
"The real offense with which these defendants are charged
is in putting out these false statements. They received
them from a source. That source purported to be the
report of a despatch, and the evidence in this case ,would
seem to direct your minds in at least some of these instances, perhaps in many of them, to just where the report
of the despatch appeared. They took that report as it
came to them, and the charge is, in plain words, that they
garbled it, sometimes by adding something to it and sometimes by leaving things out and sometimes by a change of
the words. But the substantial thing which you are to
pass upon is, was the report or statement that they put
out false? Was it wilfully and knowingly false? Was it
put out thus falsified with the intent to promote the
success of the enemies of the United States." In other
words the minds of the jurors were directed to the gist of
the case which was despatches received and then changed
to express falsehood to the detriment of the success of the
United States, and the fact and effect of change the
jurors might judge of from the testimony as presented and
"from the fund of general information which" was in
their "keeping." That is, from the fact of the source

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

from which the despatches were received, from the fact
of war and what was necessary for its spirited and effective
conduct and how far a false cast to the despatches received
was depressing or detrimental to patriotic ardor. See
Stilson v. United States, supra.
This disposes of the case on the exceptions which are
argued. Exceptions one and two are specific and we have
discussed them. Exception three is general and involves
not only the points we have discussed and selected by
counsel for discussion, but involves besides every other
objection to the instructions and the sufficiency of the
evidence, in all the aspects they can be viewed and estimated.
And as being within its comprehension we are confronted with a contention that the indictment and conviction are violative of the freedom of speech and of the press
protected ly the Constitution of the United States. The
contention is a serious one and, in its justification, it is
urged that the power of Congress to interfere with the
freedom of speech and of the press must be judged by an
exercise of reason on the circumstances. Therefore, in
justice to the tribunal below, indeed to ourselves, we must
give attention to'the contention.
It is not very susceptible of measurement. It is difficult
to separate in view of the contentions that are made a
judgment of the law from a judgment of conviction under
the law and keep free from confusing considerations. Free
speech is not an absolute right and when it or any right
becomes wrong by excess is somewhat elusive of definition.
However, some admissions may be made. That freedom
of speech and of the press are elements of liberty all will
acclaim. Indeed they are so intimate to liberty in every
one's convictions-we may say feelings-that there is an
instinctive and instant revolt from any limitation of them
either by law or a charge under the law, and judgment
must be summoned against the impulse that might con-

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
466.

Opinion of the Court.

demn a limitation without consideration of its propriety.
But notwithstanding this instant jealousy of any limitation of speech or 6f the press there is adduced an instance
of oppression by the Government, and, it is said, to hold
that publications such as those in this case "can be suppressed as false reports, subjects to new perils the constitutional liberty of the press, already seriously curtailed in
practice under powers assumed to have been conferred
upon the Postal Authorities."
If there be such practice this case is not concerned with
it. The assertion of its existence, therefore, we are not
called upon to consider, as there is nothing before us to
justify it. Therefore, putting it aside and keeping free
from exaggerations, and alarms prompted by an imagination of improbable conditions, we bring this case, as it
should be brought, like other criminal cases, to no other
scrutiny or submission than to the sedate and guiding
principles of criminal justice. And this was the effort of
the trial court and was impressed on the jury.
The court drew the attention of the jury to" the features
which gave importance" to the case but admonished it
that they brought a challenge to a sense of duty and a
sense of justice and that while the enforcement of any law
made a "strong call" upon court and jury it could not
"override the obligation of the other call, which is to
make sure that no man is found guilty of a crime unless the
evidence points to his guilt with the degree of certainty
which the law requires."
Again, and we quote the words of the court, "No
people is fit to be self-governed whose juries, chosen from
among the great body of the people, cannot give due
consideration to cases of this kind, and who cannot give
to any defendant a fair and impartial trial, and render a
just verdict. I know of no greater service an American
citizen can perform for his country than to manifest by
his attitude in cases of this kind that we are. a people who

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

are governed by law, and who follow unswervingly that
sense of justice which we should follow. Calling up just
that spirit of justice, and breathing its very atmosphere,
let us go to a consideration of the real merits of this case."
Did the admonition fulfill the duty of the court or
should the court, as it is intimated, have taken the case
from the jury? To do so is sometimes the duty of a court,
but it is to be remembered a jury is a tribunal constituted
by law as the court is, its function has as definite sanction
as that of the court, and it alone is charged with the consideration and decision of the facts of a case. And the
duty is of such value as to have been considered worthy
of constitutional provision and safeguard. See Capital
Traction Co. v. Hof, 174 U. S. 1.
If it be said this comment is but the expression of
commonplaces, we reply that commonplaces are sometimes necessary to be brought forward lest earnestness or
interest disregard them and urge too far the supervising
power of the court, which, we repeat, is subordinate to that
of the jury on questions of fact and certainly "a rule of
reason" cannot be asserted for it upon a mere difference in
judgment. All the principles and practices of the law are
the other way. May such rule be urged in an appellate
court against the concurrence of court and jury in the
trial court; or, if there be division in the appellate court,
for which view may a satisfaction of the rule be asserted?
Passing by presumptions that may be challenged, an
answer in this case may be left to the facts. But first as
to the law.
The indictment is based on the Espionage Act and that
was addressed to the condition of war and its restraints are
not excessive nor ambiguous.' We need not enumerate
I"Sec. 3. Whoever, when the United States is at war, shall willfully
make or convey false reports or false statements with intent to interfere
with the operation or success of the military or naval forces of the
United States or to promote the success of its enemies and whoever,

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
466.

Opinion of the Court.

them. They were directed against conduct-speech or
writings-that was designed to obstruct the recruitment or
enlistment service or to weaken or debase the spirit of our
armies causing them, it might be, to operate to defeat and
the immeasurable horror and calamity of it.
But simple as the law is, perilous to the country as
disobedience to it was, offenders developed, and when it
was exerted against them challenged it to decision as a
violation of the right of free speech assured by the Constitution of the United States. A curious spectacle was
presented: that great ordinance of government and
orderly liberty was invoked to justify the activities of
anarchy or of the enemies of the United States, and by a
strange perversion of its precepts it was adduced against
itself. In other words and explicitly, though it empowered
Congress to declare war and war is waged with armies,
their formation (recruiting or enlisting) could be prevented
or impeded, and the morale of the armies when formed
could be weakened or debased by question or calumny
of the motives of authority, and this could not be made a
crime-that it was an impregnable attribute of free speech,
upon which no curb could be put. Verdicts and judgments
of conviction were the reply to the challenge and when
they were brought here our response to it was unhesitating
and direct. We did more than reject the contention; we
forestalled all shades of repetition of it including that in
the case at bar. Schenck v. United States, 249 U. S. 47;
Frohwerk v. United States, 249 U. S.204; Debs v. United
States, 249 U. S. 211; Abrams v. United States, 250 U. S.
616. That, however, though in some respects retrospect,
when the United States is at war, shall willfully cause or attempt to
cause insubordination, disloyalty, mutiny, or refusal of duty, in the
military or naval forces of the United States, or shall willfully obstruct
the recruiting or enlistment service of the United States, to the injury
"
of the service or of the United States, shall be punished.
[Act June 15, 1917, c. 30, 40 Stat. 217.1

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.;

251 U. S.

is a pertinent introduction to the facts of the pending
case.
The charges of the indictment were against certain
articles or editorials in the newspapers published by
defendants in German and intended to be circulated in
families and read by persons who understood that language. The articles were adapted to the situation and,
we may say, allusion and innuendo could be as effective
as direct charge and "coarse or heavy humor" when
accompanied by sneering headlines and derision of America's efforts could have evil influence. And such was the
character of the article upon which count three of the
indictment was based. It had the following headlines:
"Yankee Bluff.
"Professor Jenny Does Not Take the American Preparations for War Seriously.
"Ambassador Paige Assures England That We Will Send
Ten Million Men."
The following, with some other comments, was in the
body of the article: "The army of ten millihon and the
hundred thousand airships which were to annihilate Germany, have proved to be American boasts, which will not
stand washing. It is worthy of note how much the
Yankees can yell their throats out without spraining their
mouths. This is in accord with their spiritual quality.
They enjoy a capacity for lying, which is able to conceal
to a remarkable degree a lack of thought behind a superfluity of words." Coarse indeed, this was, and vulgar to
us, but it was expected to produce, and, it may be, did
produce a different effect upon its readers. To them its
derisive contempt may have been truly descriptive of
American feebleness and inability to combat Germany's
prowess, and thereby chill and check the ardency of
patriotism and make it despair of success and in hopelessness relax energy both in preparation and action. If it
and the other articles, which we shall presently refer to,

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
466.

Opinion of the Court.

had not that purpose what purpose had they? Were they
the mere expression of peevish discontent, aimless, vapid
and innocuous? We cannot so conclude. We must take
them at their word, as the jury did, and ascribe to them a
more active and sinister purpose. They were the publications of a newspaper, deliberately prepared, systematic,
always of the same trend, more specific in some instances,
it may be, than in others. Their effect or the persons
affected could not be shown, nor was it necessary. The
tendency of the articles and their efficacy were enough for
offense-their "intent" and "attempt," for those are the
words of the law,, and to have required more would have
made the law useless. It was passed in precaution. The
incidence of its violation might not be immediately seen,
evil appearing only in disaster, the result of the disloyalty
engendered and the spirit of mutiny.
The article was preceded by one July 4, 1917, headed
"For the Fourth of July," in which it was declared that
"The Fourth of July celebration, which has long been an
empty formality, will this year become a miserable farce."
England was represented as the enemy of the United
States, carrying a hostility watchful of opportunity from
the time of the Revolution through all crises until the
United States "had become so strong that nothing could
be undertaken against them." And further, "The ruling
classes of England have always despised and hated the
United States, and today while they flatter them, they
still cherish the same feeling toward them." The emphasis of a paragraph was given to the statement that
"under Wilson's regime the United States" had "sprung
to the side of England as its savior in time of need. They
provided it with the means to carry on the war and when
that wasn't enough, they sprang into the war themselves.
History will sometime pronounce its judgment upon this."
The aid so asserted to have been rendered to England
by President Wilson was represented to have been in

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

opposition to the wishes of the people expressed, "by the
unwillingness of their [the United States'] young men to
offer themselves as volunteers for the war. But it will not
rest there. The call for peace will come from the masses
and will demand to be heard. And the sooner the better.
No blood has been shed yet, no hate or bitterness has yet
arisen against Germany, who has never done this country
any harm, but has sent millions of her sons for its upbuilding. The sooner the American people come to their
senses and demand peace, the better and more honorable
it will be for this country."
The animus of the article and the effect expected of it
need no comment to display. It was followed, supplemented, we may say, and reinforced by another article
July 7, 1917. It (the latter) had for headlines the words
"The Failure of Recruiting," and recruiting failed, was its
representation, notwithstanding an "advertising campaign was worked at high pressure" and "all sorts of
means were tried to stir up patriotism." Its further declaration was that "Germany was represented as a violator of all human rights and all international law, yet all in
vain. Neither the resounding praises nor the obviously
false accusations against Germany were of any avail.
The recruits did not materialize." The cause was represented to be "that the American, who certainly cannot be
called a coward" did not .care to allow himself to be shot
to satisfy British lust for the mastery of the world."
And "the people instinctively recognize and feel" that
"the pro-British policy of the Government,-is an error,
which can bring nothing but injury upon this country."
It was then added that "the nation therefore"' was doing
the only thing it could still do, "since its desires were not
consulted at first." It refused "to take part."
The purpose is manifest, however the statements of the
article may be estimated, whether as criminal meansviolations of law, or the exercise of free speech and of the

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
466.

Opinion of the Court.

press. And its statements were deliberate and wilfully
false, the purpose being to represent that the war was not
demanded by the people but was the result of the machinations of executive power, and thus to arouse resentment to
it and what it would demand of ardor and effort. In
final comment we may say that the article in effect justified the German aggressions.
We do not deem it necessary to adduce the other
charges of the indictment. We may, however, refer to the
plausibility of the excuse of the alteration of Senator
LaFollette's speech and remark that it disappears when
the speech is considered in connection with the articles
that preceded and followed it. The alterations were, it
is true, of two words only, but words of different import
than those the Senator used. The Senator urged that the
burden of taxation made necessary by the war be imposed
upon those who might profit by the war in order to relieve
those who might suffer by it and be brought to "bread
lines." The article changed the words to "bread riots,"
that is changed the expression of acceptance of what might
come as a consequence of the war, to turbulent resistance
to it and thus giving the article the character of the others
with a definite illustration of the opposition to the war by a
Senator and his prophecy of a riotous protest by the people. It will be recalled that in other articles the antagonism of the people to the war was declared and in one of
them it was said that the war was commenced "under Wilson's regime" and "without their [the people's] consent."
In conclusion we may add that there are in the record
what are called "intent" articles which supplement and
emphasize the charges of the indictment, and, it is to be
remembered, that defendants were witnesses and had the
opportunity of explanation, and to preclude any misapprehension of the German originals or defect in their
translation. And the jury could judge of the defendants
by their presence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDES

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

251 U. S.

We have not deemed it necessary to consider the articles
commented on with reference to the verdicts; the Abrams
Case has made it unnecessary. On any count of which any
defendant was convicted lie could have been sentenced to
twenty years' imprisonment. The highest sentence on
any defendant was five years.
Further comment is unnecessary and our conclusion is
that the judgment must be affirmed as to Werner, Darkow
and Lemke but reversed as to Schaefer and Vogel, as to
them the case is remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the following opinion
in which MR. JUSTICE HOLMES concurred.
With the opinion and decision of this court reversing the
judgment against Schaefer and Vogel on the Tound that
there was no evidence legally connecting them with the
publication I concur fully. But I am of opinion that the
judgments against the other three defendants should also
be reversed because either the demurrers to the several
counts should have been sustained, or a verdict should
have been directed for each defendant on all of the counts.
The extent to which Congress may, under the Constitution, interfere with free speech was in Schenck v. United
States, 249 U. S. 47, 52, declared by a unanimous court to
be this :-"The question in every case is whether the
words used are used in such circumstances and are of such
a nature as to create a clear and present danger that they
will bring about the substantive evils that Congress has a
right to prevent. It is a question of proximity and degree."
This is a rule of reason. Correctly applied, it will
preserve the right of free speech both from suppression by
tyrannous, well-meaning majorities and from abuse by
irresponsible, fanatical minorities. Like many other rules
for human conduct, it can be applied correctly" only by. the

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
466.

BRANDsis and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting,

exercise of good judgment; and to the exercise of good
judgment, calmness is, in times of deep feeling and on
subjects which excite passion, as essential as fearlessness
and honesty. The question 'whether in a particular instance the words spoken or written fall within the permissible curtailment of free speech is, under the rule
enunciated by this court, one of degree. And because
it is a question of degree the field in which the jury may
exercise its judgment is, necessarily, a wide one. But its
field is not unlimited. The trial provided for is one by
judge and jury; and the judge may not abdicate his function. If the words were of such a nature and were used
under such circumstances that men, judging in calmness,
could not reasonably say that they created a clear and
present danger that they would bring about the evil which
Congress sought and had a right to prevent, then it is the
duty of the trial judge to withdraw the case from the
consideration of the jury; and if he fails to do so, it is the
duty of the appellate court to correct the error. In my
opinion, no jury acting in calmness could reasonably say
that any of the publications set forth in the indictment was
of such a character or was made under such circumstances
as to create a clear and present danger either that they
would obstruct recruiting or that they would promote the
success of the enemies of the United States. That they
could have interfered with the military or naval forces
of the United States or have caused insubordination, disloyalty, mutiny, or refusal of duty in its military or naval
services was not even suggested; and there was no evidence
of conspiracy except the co6peration of editors and business manager in issuing the publications complained of.
The nature and possible effect of a writing cannot be
properly determined by culling here and there a sentence
and presenting it separated from the context. In making
such determination, it should be read as a whole; at least
if it is short like these news items and editorials, Some-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIS

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

251 U. S.

times it is necessary to consider, in connection with it,
other evidence which may enlarge or otherwise control its
meaning or which may show that it was circulated under
circumstances which gave it a peculiar significance or
effect. But no such evidence was introduced by the
Government. The writings here in question must speak
for themselves. Fifteen publications were set forth in the
indictment; and others were introduced in evidence. To
reproduce all of them would unduly prolong this opinion.
Four are selected which will illustrate the several contentions of the Government. That at least three of these four
were deemed by it of special importance is shown by the
fact that each of the three was made the subject of a
separate count.
First: There were convictions on three counts of wilfully obstructing the recruiting and enlistment service.
The conviction of the news editor of so obstructing rested
wholly upon his having inserted the following reprint from
a Berlin paper in the Tageblatt:
"Yankee Bluff.
"Professor Jenny Does Not Take the American Preparations for War Seriously.
"Ambassador Paige Assures England That We Will Send
Ten Million Men.
"London, Aug. 5.-Ambassador Paige followed Lloyd
George at Guild Hall in Plymouth, with a great speech.
He declares there that the differences between England
and the United States in former times were only of a
superficial nature, and that both peoples are now united
inseparably, to fight for freedom and against the Hydra of
militarism. He assures his hearers that the United States
is ready for all sacrifices in order to end the war victoriously, and that if necessary it will send ten million men
to France."
"Berlin, Aug. 5.-In the 'TMiglishe Rundschau,' Professor Jenny writes 'under the title 'Americanism' as

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
466.

BRANDEIS

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

follows :-Americans think in exaggerations and talk in
superlatives. Even Ambassador Andrew White in his
Memoirs falls into superlatives in comparatively insignificant cases. He speaks of them as the most important events of his life and maintains that certain people
have made an indelible impression on him, whom others
consider to be ordinary average men.
"The army of ten million men has dwindled to a voluntary army of 120,000; while the new conscripted army of
565,000 will not even be ready to begin drilling for the
front in six months. The hundred thousand air ships were
reduced to 20,000 and then to 3,000, which the Americans
hope to have ready for next summer if they find the right
model for them. As for the thousands of ships that were
to be sent across the ocean, America, six months after the
declaration of war, has not yet decided whether they are to
be wood or steel ships; so far not even the keel of one ship
has been laid. It amounts to this that now when the
Americans can scrape some tonnage together, the troops
are not ready, and when they have the troops ready, the
tonnage will not be available.
"The army of ten million and the hundred thousand
airships which were to annihilate Germany, have proved
to be American boasts which will not stand washing. It is
worthy to note how much the Yankees can yell their
throats out without spraining their mouths. This is in
accord with their spiritual quality. They enjoy a capacity
for lying, which is able to conceal to a remarkable degree
a lack of thought behind a superfluity of words.
I "But some fine day, if they do not stop
their boasting
and bluffing, it might happen to them that they get the
lockjaw, for which there is no better relief than a good
box on the ear. Moreover it is not to be assumed that the
Americans are really in earnest with the war. No one
would be surprised if they found a thousand and one
excuses for taking no active part in the European War."

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIs and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

251 U. S.

It is not apparent on a reading of this article-which is
not unlike many reprints from the press of Germany to
which our patriotic societies gave circulation in order to
arouse the American fighting spirit-how it could rationally be held to tend even remotely or indirectly to
obstruct recruiting. But as this court has declared and as
Professor Chafee has shown in his "Freedom of Speech in
War Time," 32 Harvard Law Review, 932, 963, the test
to be applied-as in the case of criminal attempts and
incitements-is not the remote or possible effect. There
must be the clear and present danger. Certainly men
judging in calmness and with this test presented to them
could not reasonably have said that this coarse and
heavy humor immediately threatened the success of recruiting. Compare United States v. Hall, 248 Fed. Rep.
150; United States v. Schutte, 252 Fed. Rep. 212; Von
Bank v. United States, 253 Fed. Rep. 641.; Balbas v.
United States, 257 Fed. Rep. 17; Sandberg v. United
States, 257 Fed. Rep. 643; Kammann v. United States,
259 Fed. Rep. 192; Wolf v. United States, 259 Fed. Rep.
388, 391-2.
Second: There were convictions on three counts of
wilfully conveying false reports and statements with intent
to promote the success of the enemies of the United States.
The Tageblatt, like many of the smaller newspapers, was
without a foreign or a national news service of any kind
and did not purport to have any. It took such news
usually from items appearing in some other paper theretofore published in the German or the English language.
It did not in any way indicate the source of its news. The
item, if taken from the English press, was of course
translated. Sometimes it was copied in full; sometimes in
part only; and sometimes it was rewritten; or editorial
comment was added. The Government did not attempt
to prove that any statement made in any of the news items
published in the Tageblatt was false in fact. Its evidence,

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
BRANDEis and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

under each count, was limited to showing that the item
as published therein varied in some particular from the
item as it appeared in the paper from which it had been
copied; and no attempt was made to prove the original
despatch to the latter paper. The Government contended
that solely because of variation from the item copied it was
a false report, although the item in the Tageblatt did not
purport to reproduce an item from another paper, and in
no way indicated the source of the news. Each of the
three items following illustrates a different method by
which the variation was effected:
1. The publication for which the news editor was convicted on the fifth count by reason of an addition to the
item copied:
(The translation of the
Tageblatt item as set forth
in the, indictment.)
"Further Economies.
"Amsterdam, September
2.-It has been reported here
that permission to export the
wheat and flour on the ships
held in New York has been
refused. Information to this
effect is contained in an official - proclamation of the
latest cut in bread rations
and of the need for economy
which has reached the civil
authorities: This document
says: 'We know now with
certainty that we cannot
count upon the import of
breadstuffs from America and
that we must strive to make
our own provisions suffice.
In initiated circles it is said
that under no conditions can
the new American proposal
be accepted, and that the
foodstuffs may rot before
'the ships will be unloaded."'

(The original Tageblatt item as set
forth in the indictment.)
ettE:* @ini4I{5nfungea.
Ifulterb.am. T. ep. ef Iirb
Our tmelbetf, ba5 bet TPo
n 1 8d.
son unb k§lI auf ben in gew JIr! au
rildetallenen Z~iffn beluipt Irncbe.
fine bt16)P0Iic* 3ttItf!ung ift In'
elner amtliTen 1lflarung bet JIlangten
18rofrationen erriniearung
unb bet
Plufforberung aur Vinfdo:nlung efiflate
t*,i tre[fte
ben GWeminbtbeb~en #us
gins. Zn berle[ben fteitt ca: .28k loif,
fen nun beltimrnt. bobIv i auf -bit 1|n
14r von :roffietreibe au Ime:ila ni4t
rec€neis lnnen, unb bob wit an$.bemil.
IOen
milflen, mil ben elgeU torrtaji
Ausdirommen." 3a ginslf
t4tou
saTeilea teibt e. bab man out hen "cues
:3ori4la WImc:oifa unTe feiuen Urn.
itanbelc cinge'jtn unb baD @eheIh (t
berfauhfen falle
ib, 0 io*I
4 ff
ausulaben.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIS

and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

251 U. S.

The falsification charged is said to consist in having
added to the despatch which was copied from the Staatszeitung the words: "In initiated circles it is said that under
no conditions can the new American proposal be accepted; and that the foodstuffs may rot before the ships
will be unloaded." But it is obvious, upon comparing the
English translation with the German original, that the
defendant did no such thing. What occurred was this:
The sentence referred to was not made a part of the
despatch in the Tageblatt. It followed the despatch; it
was not within the quotation marks; and was separated
from it by a dash,-a usual method of indicating that
what follows is comment or an addition made by the editor. In the English translation, as set forth in the indictment, this sentence, through some inadvertence of the
Government's translator or draftsman, was included as
part of the despatch and brought with the quotation

therein. Evidently both the jury and the trial judge failed
to examine the German original.
2. One of the publications for which the news editor was
convicted on the first count because of an omission from
the item copied:
"Ready for the Fray?
"St. Petersburg, September 7th.-The Russian Baltic
Fleet will defend Kronstadt and Reval, and through them
the Russian capital itself. The commanders of the two
fortresses have mad6 this report to the provisional government. A large part of the Baltic fleet was under control of
the Maximalists, who hitherto have opposed Kerensky.
The commanders of Sveaborg and Helsingfors have also
telegraphed their assurance to the government that the
Baltic fleet has expressed its willingness to offer desperate
resistance, in case the Germans should make a naval attack upon the strongholds between Riga and the capital.
"Investigation of the Fall of Riga.
"The Russians devastated the land through which

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
466.

BRANDEIS

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

they retreated from Riga, in order to impede the German
advance. Roads were broken up, bridges destroyed and
provisions burned. A special commission has been set up
by Premier Kerensky to investigate the fall of Riga. As
far as reports have so far been permitted to appear, it is
established that only two regiments gave up their positions without fighting, and the others offered the attacking
Germans bold resistance. The retreat was carried out in
an orderly manner, in spite of pursuit by the German
armies. The first of these, advancing along the coast in
the region of Dunaburg, is apparently endeavoring to
reach Berna, on the Gulf of Riga. The second German
army is pressing along the Pskoff road to execute a turning
movement, while the third is energetically pushing in a
northeasterly direction against Ostroff. The Germans are
showing signs of nervousness in advancing through this
marshy lake-strewn country, which are increased by the
Russian resistance."
The falsification here is said to consist in the omission
from the end of the first paragraph of the following sentence which appeared in the paper from which the item was
taken: "From this it can be concluded that the fall of
Riga has united the opposing political factions in Russia."
3. The publication for which the news editor was convicted on the sixth count because of the change of a word
in the item copied:
"War of the Rich.
"Senator La Follette Thinks They Ought Not to Make a
Cent of Profit.
"Hot Fight in the Senate Over Increased Taxation of War
Profits.
"Washington, August 21.-Taxation of riches in such a
measure that the burdens of the cost of the war will be
taken from the shoulders of the poor man was recommended today in the Senate by Senator La Follette in a
long speech. He declared that the proposed two billion

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIS

and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

251 U. S.

dollar bill as drawn up in the Senate's Committee on
Financial Affairs is impractical because it covers less than
seventeen per cent. of the war expenses of the first year
and from this would result the necessity of issuing bonds
for billions of dollars. Bonds, however, mean the same as
an increased cost of living, and one of the consequences
would be that next winter bread riots could be expected in
the big cities. He recommended the acceptance of amendments by which further taxation of large incomes and
big war profits would be effected, which would bring the
total amount of the bill to about $3,500,000,000.
"Senator La Follette declared that wealth had never,
in any war, offered itself on the altar of patriotism. He
attacked the proposed issue of bonds and prophesied that
the Liberty Bonds would eventually find their way into the
hands of the rich, if they had not already done so. 'But,'
he continued, 'this is not all, for war, and p:rincipally the
sale of bonds, leads inevitably to inflation. This raises
prices and through that the cost of living for the great
mass of people is raised. Reason and experience teach us
that the policy of financing a war for the most part by
borrowing the necessary money, is in itself one of the
worst financial burdens that war imposes upon men.
But wealth is always a powerful factbr in the Government.
It fattens on war loans and war contracts as well as on
speculation, which is not wanting in time of war. Upon
these grounds the. rich are always in favor of war, and
when they have succeeded in bringing on a war, they are
often powerful enough with ministers of wsi and parliaments and congresses to force the maximum, of loans and
to reduce taxation to a minimum by every possible intrigue and argument.
"'And that is the case with us in this -war. Within
thirty days after the declaration of war wealth had
precipitated us into bond issues of unheard of size. Morgan came to the city, the press urged it, the administration

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
466.

BRANDEIS and HoLmEs, JJ., dissenting.

commanded it, and Congress authorized the issue of five
billions of untaxable Government bonds and two billions
of interest bearing Treasury notes.'
"Senator La Follette attacked the program of the
administration under which a new tax measure will be
introduced next winter. 'Of what use is the postponement?' he asked, 'Whose interest is served if taxes on
incomes and war profits are kept down and the masses are
delivered over to the money lenders as security for an
enormous and wickedly disproportionate issue of bonds?'
He insisted that the policy of financing the war should at
once be decided upon.
"'To-day the way is clear,' he explained, 'hesitation to
provide now for heavy taxes would not be a mistake, it
would be something worse.'
"Senator La Follette reviewed the financial history of
previous American wars. 'We must not repeat such mistakes,' he said, 'it would be blind madness if we did not
learn from the mistakes that were made in previous wars.
A mistake that we make now may be fatal. It would
certainly cost us untold millions of dollars and thousands
upon thousands of lives, as by it we would prolong the
war unnecessarily.
"'As long as one man can be found who makes war
profits, I am in favor of taking away in taxes such part of
those profits as the Government requires, and the Govern,
ment needs the whole of such profits before adding a penny
to the taxation of people who are already staggering under
heavy burdens by reason of the higher prices occasioned by
the war. This may be a new principle in war financing,
but it is the least that one can do for the mass of the peo'ple, and it is considerably less than simple justice would
demand for them.
"'The great mass of the people bear the costs of war,
although they may not be directly taxed one dollar. The
great mass of the people pay in higher prices and pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIS

and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

251 U. S.

longed hours of labor. They pay in service, not alone on
the battle field, but wherever men and women work hard
all day long. But more than all this, they pay the cost of
war with their blood, and their lives, and what is the
greatest sacrifice of all, with the blood and lives of their
loved ones.
"'If bread lines are a familiar sight in every city in the
land, as they undoubtedly will be if the present prices of
the most necessary supplies for living hold firm during the
coming winter, if cold and hunger become daily guests
with thousands of families, who, until now, have only
known comfort, a condition which is certain to come about
during the coming winter months, if no help against the
present level of prices can be found, then it is my opinion
that the members of this Congress will do little enough if
they come to realize that they are adding to the privations
and pains of the mass of the people if they hesitate to place
even a fairly moderate portion of the financial burden
upon the rich.'"
Falsification is charged solely because the word "Brotriots" (translated as "bread-riots") was used in the
twelfth line of the article instead of the word "Brotreihen" (translated as "breadlines").
The act punishes the wilful making and conveying of
"false reports or false statements with intent to interfere
with the operation or success of the military o:r naval forces
of the United States or to promote the success of its enemies." Congress sought thereby to protect the American
people from being wilfully misled to the detriment of
their cause by one actuated by the intention to further
the cause of the enemy. Wilfully untrue statements which
might mislead the people as to the financial condition of
the Government and thereby pmbarrass it; as to the
adequacy of the preparations for war or the support of
the forces; as to the sufficiency of the food supply; or wilfully untrue statements or reports of military operations

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
466.

BRANDEIS

and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

which might mislead public opinion as to the competency
of the army or navy or its leaders (See "The Relation
Between the Army and the Press in War Time," War
College Publication, 1916); or wilfully untrue statements
or reports which might mislead officials in the execution of
the law, or military authorities in the disposition of the
forces. Such is the kind of false statement and the only
kind which, under any rational construction, is made
criminal by the act. Could the military and naval forces
of the United States conceivably have been interfered with
or the success of the enemy conceivably have been promoted by any of the three publications set forth above?
Surely, neither the addition to the first, nor the omission
from the second constituted the making of a false statement or report. The mistranslation of "breadlines" in one
passage of the third, if it can be deemed a false report,
obviously could not have promoted the success of our
enemies. The other publications set out in the indictment
were likewise impotent to produce the evil against which
the statute aimed.
• Darkow, the news editor, and Werner, the editor, were
each sentenced to five years in the penitentiary; Lemke,
the business manager, to two years. The jury which
found men guilty for publishing news items or editorials
like those here in question must have supposed it to be
within their province to condemn men not merely for
disloyal acts but for a disloyal heart; provided only that
the disloyal heart was evidenced by some utterance. To
prosecute men for such publications reminds of the days
when men were hanged for constructive treason. And,
indeed, the jury may well have believed from the charge
that the Espionage Act had in effect restored the crime of
constructive treason.' To hold that such harmless addiI The presiding judge in charging thejury said of the act: "
its general purpose is to protect . . . our military strength and
efficiency, to protect ourselves against anything which would promote

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIs and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

251 U. S.

tions to or omissions from news items, and such impotent
expressions of editorial opinion, as were shown here, can
afford the basis even of a prosecution will doubtless discourage criticism of the policies of the Government. To
hold that such publications can be suppressed as false
reports, subjects to new perils the constitutional liberty of
the press, already seriously curtailed in practice under
powers assumed to have been conferred upon the postal
authorities. Nor will this grave danger end with the passthe success of our enemies by undermining our morale, lessening our
will to win, or, as it is commonly expressed, our will to conquer
creating divisions among our people.
"These acts which are prohibited are treasonable in the sense in
which.that word is used, in the common speech of the peDple. Indeed,
they may constitute legal treason as defined in some jurisdictions, but
they are not treason against the United States, for the simple reason
that there is a provision in our Constitution, (which, of course, the
Acts of Congress follow), that treason against the United States,you will observe that it does not say 'treason generally,' but treason
against the United States shall consist only in making war upon them,
or in adhering to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort, and there
is another provision to the effect that no person can be convicted of the
crime of treason unless there are two witnesses to the same overt act,
making, as you will see, it perfectly clear that mere words, whether
published or not, as long as they are mere words, do not constitute the
crime of treason, but they must be words uttered and published under
such circumstances as to become deeds or acts in themselves, as 'words'
may be. So that words, unless there is something to which they may
attach and unless the direct, natural, and reasonably to be expected
consequences of them would be to give aid and comfort to the enemy,
do not constitute the crime of treason. Every man will observe, however, that even mere words may be fraught with consequences which,
although too remote to constitute the crime of treason, may nevertheless be words which are fraught with most awful consequences
.
and, therefore, it is properly within the province of the law to prohibit

.

.

.

and make it a crime even to utter them. In substance,

that is what this law does. Congress could not call some mere words
treason, because the Constitution prohibits it, but there is no constitutional limitation on the power of Congress to declare those things
a crime against the law which Congress has done in this act. . .

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
466.'

CLARE, J., dissenting.

ing of the war. •The constitutional right of free speech has
been declared to be the same in peace and- in war. In
peace, too, men may differ widely as to what loyalty to
our country demands; and an intolerant majority, swayed
by passion or by fear, may be prone in the future, as it has
often been in the past, to stamp as disloyal opinions with
which it disagrees. Convictions such as these, besides
abridging freedom of speech, threaten freedom of thought
and of belief.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE,

dissenting.

On a single indictment, containing nine counts, five
men, Peter Schaefer, Paul Vogel, Louis Werner, Martin
Darkow and Herman Lemke, were convicted and sentenced to the penitentiary for printing seventeen articles in
a German language newspaper, published at Philadelphia,
between June 24 and September 17, 1917.
Schaefer was president and Vogel was treasurer of the
company which published the paper, but their entire time
was given to the service of labor unions, which had loaned
money to the company, and they were given these official
positions for the purpose of enabling them to keep informed as to its business progress and the disposition of its
earnings.
All the members of the court agree that there was no
substantial evidence that Schaefer or Vogel were in any
respect responsible for the publications complained of, and
that as to them the judgment must be reversed.
In this conclusion I cordially concur, but I go further
and am clear that a similar reversal should be entered as to
Herman Lemke, who was convicted, as Schaefer and
Vogel were, on only one of the nine counts of the indictment.
Lemke was given the sounding title of "business manager,:" but, as a matter of fact, he was a mere bookkeeper,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

251 U. S.

of a small business, with very limited authority. The
newspaper led a precarious financial existence and Lemke's
duties were restricted to making out and collecting bills for
advertising and circulation, to paying some bills and to
turning over the remainder of the money, if any remained, to the treasurer, Vogel. Lemke himself and two
or three other witnesses testified that he had nothing
whatever to do with deciding what should be published in
the newspaper, and that he never wrote for it excepting
that when a reporter was ill he occasionally reported a
concert. There was no evidence to the contrary.
On such a record it is very clear that a man holding such
a position as Lemke held, could not, and did not, have anything to do with determining what should be published in
the paper. He had no more to do with the policy of the
paper than a porter would have with determining the
policy of a railroad company. In my judgment the failure
of proof as to Lemke was as complete as it was as to
Schaefer and Vogel and I cannot share in permitting him
to be imprisoned in the penitentiary for a year for publications which he was powerless either to authorize or prevent.
A different case is made against Werner and Darkow.
Werner was a writer of political editorials for the paper,
and Darkow was the news editor. Werner was found
guilty on four counts and not guilty on five. Darkow was
found guilty on five counts and not guilty on four.
Two of the articles written, or caused to be published,
by Werner, and one, or perhaps two, of those caused to be
published by Darkow, were of a character such that they
might have been fairly convicted of violating the act under
which they were indicted, but none of these articles was
included in count one, and only one of them was included
in count nine, and with. respect to this one article in count
nine Werner was found not guilty when charged with its
publication in count three. The charge of the court did

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
466.

CLARKEn,

J., dissenting.

not distinguish between these really offending publications
and the many innocent ones the publication of which was
charged to be criminal, with the result, that it failed to
give such direction to the deliberations of the jury as I
think every person accused of crime is entitled to have
given.
The denial of separate motions to instruct the jury to
render a verdict of not guilty as to Werner and Darkow
on the first and ninth counts seems to me to constitute
error so fundamental and pervasive as to render the entire
trial unfair and unjust, to a degree which requires the
granting of a new trial to each of them.
I shall state my reasons for this conclusion as briefly as I
may.
The first count charges that the defendants did "knowingly, wilfully and unlawfully make and convey false
reports and statements, with intent to promote the success
of the enemies of the United States, to wit, the said Imperial German Government."
The indictment and the record in general make it very
plain that the District Attorney, in framing the indictment, and during the trial, believed that the statute prohibiting the making and conveying of a false report and
statement would be violated by the publication of any
article which had been published elsewhere if, in the
publication, it was changed, either by addition or omission, and this without any proof that the original publication was true and the secopd publication false, and seemingly without regard to whether or not the publication
had any tendency to promote the success of the enemy.
The trial court accepted this construction of the statute
and submitted the first count to the jury on this theory of
the law.
I cannot doubt that this was gravely erroneous, for the
real purpose of the statute is to punish, published, not
suppressed, report and statements, whether original or

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
CLARKE, J., dissenting.

251 U. S.

copies, made with the intent to promote the success, and
which were of a nature reasonably likely to promote the
success, of the enemy of the United States-by discouraging our own people or encouraging the enemy,
The first of the thirteen false reports which it is charged
in the first count were published, is typical of the others
and will sufficiently explain my position.
It purported to be a despatch from London and translated reads as follows:
"The Crisis.
"Is Advancing in Russia with Rapid Strides. The
Coalition Government Will Probably Not last Long.
"Its Position in Foreign Affairs Is Condemned.
"London, June 23.-The Petrograd correspondent of
the Chronicle telegraphs today that a great crisis is in
progress in Russia. (By that he means apparently that
the unstable and weak coalition government will soon be
got rid of. It seems to obey unwillingly the instructions of
the Workmen's and Soldiers' Council-to request the allies
to revise their war aims. The workmen will not stand for
this much longer. It is highly significant too that not a
word has been reported for four days about the great
general congress of the Workmen's and Soldiers' delegates; apparently because its behavior does not please the
allies.)
"The correspondent of the Chronicle quotes an extract
from Maxim Gorky's newspaper 'New Life' which says
that people all over the worlYi are to understand that
Russia rejects the aggressive war aims of the allies. The
correspondent sees a sign in this that the socialists of
Russia will not wait much longer."
Obviously there is nothing in this, as published, which
.could either discourage Americans or encourage the German enemy, and the indictment does not claira that there
is. That which the indictment charges makes the publication criminally false is that there was omitted from it "a

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
466.

499

CLARmE, J., dissenting.

proposal by Maxim Gorky that Russia wage a separate
war against Germany." Thus the charge is that the crime
consisted not in publishing something which tended to
encourage German enemies, but in omitting to publish
something which it is conceived might have discouraged
them. It is not charged that what was printed was harmful but that something which was unfavorable to Germany
was not published.
This is characteristic of all but two of the thirteen articles in the first count, and to these, additions were made
so inconsequential as in my judgment not to deserve
notice.
It seems to me very clear that the statute could not be
violated by publishing reports and statements harmless in
themselves and which were not shown to be false, merely
because they had been published in a different form in
another paper,-and this is the extent to which the proof
in this case goes as to all of the publications complained of
in the first count. Without more discussion, I am so
clear that the requested instruction for the defendants
Werner and Darkow as to the first count should have been
granted, that I think the refusal of it entitles them to a new
trial.
The ninth count consists of a charge of conspiracy on
the part of the entire five defendants to wilfully make and
convey false reports and false statements with intent to
interfere with the operation and success of the military and
naval forces of the United States; with wilfully causing and
attempting to cause insubordination, disloyalty and
mutiny in the military and naval forces of the United
States, and with wilfully obstructing the recruiting and
enlisting service of the United States by the publication of
various articles referred to, but not quoted, in the indictment. With a single exception these articles are the same
as those incorporated in the first count and this exception
purported to be a despatch from the Hague, giving the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

251 U. S.

reasons for the unrest in Germany, from which it is charged
there was omitted a statement that one of the reasons for
such unrest was the failure of the submarine campaign
carried on by the German Government. Even in this
ninth count it is not charged that the publications as
actually made were harmful but it proceeds, as does the
first count, upon the implication that they might have
been more discouraging than they were to the German
enemy if the omitted statements had been incorporated
into them, and that for this reason they violated the
statute. In other words, it comes to this, that the ninth
count charges as criminal, not a conspiracy to publish the
articles complained of, which were innocent, but a conspiracy to suppress certain statements which were published in other newspapers in connection with or as a part
of the published articles and which it is argued might have
been harmful to the German cause if they had been published. It is impossible for me to think that the statute
could be violated in any such manner.
It was clearly proved that the newspaper was so poor
financially that it was not able to have telegraphic service
of any character and, morning paper that it was, it filled
its news columns with clippings from the evening papers
of the night before and from early editions of the morning
papers when it could procure them before its hour for
going to press. It did not print nearly as many columns as
the newspapers from which it obtained its news, and for
this reason it was necessarily obliged to cut and condense,
both headlines and the body of the articles. In several of
the instances complained of these exigencies of publication
plainly caused the omissions complained of.
Convinced as I am that the requested instructions to
the jury that Werner and Darkow could not be found
guilty on the first and ninth counts should have been
given and that the charge of the court was so utterly unadapted to the case as it would have been if they had been

CARBON STEEL CO. v. LEWELLYN.
466.

Syllabus.

given, as to be valueless or'worse as a direction to the
jury, I think that the least that can be done, in the interest
of the orderly'administration of justice, is to grant a new
trial and let a new jury, properly instructed, pass upon the
case.
I cannot see, as my associates seem to see, that the disposition of this case involves a great peril either to the
maintenance of law. and order and governmental authority
on the one hand, or to the freedom of the press on the
other. To me it seems simply a case of flagrant mistrial,
likely to result in disgrace and great injustice, probably in
life imprisonment for two old men, because this -court
hesitates to exercise the power, which it undoubtedly
possesses, to correct, in this calmer time, errors of law
which would not have been committed but for the stress
and strain of feeling prevailing in the early months of the
late deplorable war.

CARBON STEEL COMPANY v. LEWELLYN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE
TWENTY-THIRD DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 535.

Argued January 12, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

The rule of strict construction will not be pressed so far as to reduce a
taxing statute to a practical nullity by permitting easy evasion.
P. 505.
The Munitions Manufacturer's Tax payable under the Act of September 8, 1916, c. 463, § 301, 39 Stat. 780, by persons "manufacturing"
shells, etc., and computed as an excise of 12Y2 per cent. upon the net
profits from the sale or disposition of such articles "manufactured"

