OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD BREWERY, INCORPORATED.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN BREWING
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN

Nos. 458, 474.

DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

Argued December 11, 1919.-Decided January 5, 1020.

The War-Time Prohibition Act prohibits the use of grains, fruits, and
other food products in the manufacture of "beer, wine, or other
intoxicating malt or vinous liquor for beverage purposes," until the
conclusion of the present war, etc. Held, that the word "intoxicating" qualifies the terms preceding, thus excluding from the
prohibition beer which is not in fact intoxicating. P. 217.
The act sought to prevent the manufacture of intoxicating liquors
because their use might interfere with the consummation of the declared purposes,-to conserve the Nation's man-power and increase
efficiency in producing war materials. P. 219.
Rulings of the Treasury Department holding beer containing but
one-half of one per cent. of alcohol taxable under revenue laws but
not involving the consideration of intoxicating quality, held irrelevant in the construction of the War-Time Prohibition Act. Id.
The question what percentage of alcohol is enough to constitute a
beverage intoxicating within the meaning of the War-Time Prohibition Act is not left by that statute to the determination of the
Internal Revenue Department, and its decisions in that regard,
though entitled to respect, cannot enlarge the statute so as to make
conduct criminal under it. Id..
A construction of an act of Congress which might render it unconstitutional is to be avoided if possible. P. 220.
Quicre: Whether Congress under the war power could prohibit the
manufacture and sale of non-intoxicating beverages? Id.

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD BREWERY.

211

Argument for the United States.

210

An indictment must charge each and every element of the offense.

P. 220.
The court cannot say, as a matter of law, that a beverage containing

not more than-one-half of one per cent. of alcohol is intoxicating. Id.
260 Fed. Rep. 486, affirmed.
THE

cases are stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Friersonfor the United States:
This act was passed under the special war powers of
Congress. Its primary purpose was the withdrawal of
man-power and foodstuffs from nonessential employment
and their devotion to employment necessary for the
successful conduct of the war. For this Congress could
prohibit the manufacture of nonintoxicating ag, well as
intoxicating beverages. What was done was to place a
ban upon certain beverages, whose well-known large
production and consumption constituted a heavy drain
upon both the labor and food resources of the country.
Doubtless, for this reason, and also because they were
regarded as injurious to man-power, needed both at home
and at the front, the purpose was to class generally, as
nonessential, alcoholic beverages. Accordingly, the act
prohibits by name the best-known and most largely consumed beverages of this class, generally recognized as
more or less intoxicating; and, to embrace other similar
but less well-known beverages, there were added the
general words "or other intoxicating malt or vinous
liquor."
The only way to give effect to these words is to say that
whatever beverages come within the commonly understood meaning of beer and wine are prohibited, and the
prohibition is then extended, by general words, to other
beverages which are similar to beer and wine with respect
to being malt or vinous and also with respect to their
alcoholic content or intoxicating qualities. The word

OCTOBER TERM,. 1919.
Argument for the United States.

251 U. S.

"intoxicating" can scarcely be said to have a very definite'
meaning. It is ordinarily defined to mean: Producing
intoxication or feelings like those of intoxication; exhilarating; exciting, maddening, or stupefying with delight. (Standard Dictionary.)
But men will differ about what is exhilarating or exciting or intoxicating. Experts differ as to what per cent.
of alcohol suffices to render a beverage intoxicating. It is a
well-known fact that what will make one man drunk will
have no effect upon another, and a drink which, at one
time, may seem not to affect a man, may, at another
time, make the same man drunk. A law whose enforcement depended upon the determination by juries of such a
question would rest upon a most insecure foundation,
and anything like a uniform administration of it would be
impossible. Hence, the States in passing prohibition
laws have always enumerated by name the best-known
alcoholic or intoxicating liquors and added general language to include other similar beverages. Congress, in
this act, has followed the same course. Beer usually is
admittedly an intoxicating beverage and is so classed
in the public mind, whether a particular quantity of it
will make a particular man drunk or not. To say that the
Government must prove in each case that the beer involved is, in fact, intoxicating would make the efficient
enforcement almost. if not quite impossible.'
Under the rule ejusdem generis the meaning of general words may take color from the words used in the
enumeration which they follow. But there is no rule
under which words of a specific meaning used in an enumeration are to be given a different meaning by reason of
general language following them and intended to describe other articles or persons. The rule in question
leads to the conclusion that any malt or vinous liquor
which is intoxicating in the sense that beer and wine are
intoxicating is prohibited; but it can not be so applied

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD BREWERY.
210.

213

Argument for the United States.

as to exclude any beverage which would ordinarily be
included under the word "beer." The intention was to
prohibit all beverages which are commonly known as
beer. The courts of the various States have almost
uniformly given this construction to similar language.
United States v. Cohn, 2 Ind. Terr. 474, 492, 501; State v.
Ely, 22 S. Dak. 487, 492-493; La Follette v. Murray, 81
Ohio St. 474; Fuller v. Jackson, 97 Mississippi, 237, 253256; Extract & Tonic Co. v. Lynch, 100 Mississippi, 650;
Marks v. State, 159 Alabama, 71; In re Lockman, 18 Idaho,
465, 46,9; Brown v. State, 17 Arizona, 314.
In United States v. Chase, 135 U. S. 255, the general
expression "writing" was given color from the specific
words used in the preceding enumeration "book, pamphlet, picture, paper," which were held to imply a "publication" even without reference to the use of that word
in the general language following the enumeration. When
the amended statute came before the court it was not
supposed that the word "publication" used in the general
language modified in any way the word "letter" introduced into the specific enumeration. Grimm v. United
States, 156 U. S. 604; Andrews. v. United States, 162 U. S.
420. Insurance Co. v. Gridley, 100 U. S. 614, does not
involve the rule ejusdem generis.
All the dictionaries define beer as an alcoholic beverage
obtained by the fermentation of malt or certain other substances. But "intoxicating" appears in no definition.
In common acceptation, therefore, beer is an alcoholic
but not necessarily an intoxicating beverage. If it contains the usual ingredients of beer, including alcohol, a
beverage is beer even though the quantity of alcohol is not
sufficient to produce actual drunkenness. Nothing else
appearing, it could be well said that such a beverage is
beer if it contains any alcohol. But, when used by Congress, it has come to have a slightly different meaning.
For years, a tax has been levied on "beer, lager beer, ale,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

porter, and other similar fermented liquors." Revised
Statutes, §§ 3335-3339. From the first the Internal
Revenue Department has ruled that the tax applied to all
such beverages containing as much as one-half of one per
cent. of alcohol. Treasury Decisions 1307, 1360, 2354,
2370 and 2410. Manufacturers acquiesced and paid the
tax. Such a beverage containing as much as one-half of
one per cent. of alcohol has, therefore, long ago come to be
recognized both by the Government and the manufacturers as beer. And Congress has continued from time
to time in revenue laws to use the same language and may
well be said to have adopted the meaning thus placed
upon it. Finally, in the Revenue Act of 1917, passed
before the act now in question, and the Revenue Act of
1918, passed later, Congress has expressly described beer
as containing one-half of one per cent. or more of alcohol
and classed similar beverages containing less as soft
drinks. It is clear, then, that when Congress used the
word "beer" in the Act of November 21, 1918, it used it
in that sense.
Mr. William L. Marbury, with whom Mr. Randolph
Barton, Jr., and Mr. William L. Rawls were on the brief,
for defendant in error in No. 458.
Mr. Elihu Root, with whom Mr. William D. Guthrie was
on the brief, for defendant in error in No. 474.
Mr. Wayne B. Wheeler and Mr. Andrew Wilson, by
leave of court, filed a brief as amici curiw.
MR. JUsTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
These causes are here under the Criminal Appeals Act,
March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, and require the
construction of the so-called "War-Time Prohibition

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD BREWERY.
210.

215

Opinion of the Court.

Act," of November 21, 1918, c. 212, 40 Stat. 1045, 1046,
1047.
In No. 458 the Standard Brewery, Incorporated, was indicted for unlawfully using certain grains, cereals, fruit,
and other food products on the 4th of June, 1919, in the
manufacture and production of beer for beverage purposes which, it is charged, contained as much as one-half
of one per cent. of alcohol by both weight and volume.
In No. 474 the American Brewing Company was indicted
for the like use on the 26th day of June, 1919, of certain
grains, cereals and food products in the manufacture and
production of beer containing a like percentage of alcohol.
In the indictment in No. 474 it was charged that at the
time of the alleged offense the termination of demobilization had not been determined and proclaimed by the
President.
In each case a demurrer was sustained by the District
Court.
Before considering the construction of that portion of
the act involved in these cases it will be helpful to give a
short history of the preceding legislation that led up to it.
The Food Control Act of August 10, 1917, c. 53, 40 Stat.
276, 282, authorized the President to prescribe and give
public notice of limitations, regulations, or prohibitions
respecting the use of foods, fruits, food materials or feed,
in the production of malt or vinous liquors for beverage
purposes, including regulations for the reduction of the
alcoholic content of any such malt or vinous liquor, in
order to assure an adequate and continuous supply of
food, and promote the national security and defense.
Whenever notice should be given and remain unrevoked
no person, after a reasonable time prescribed in such notice, could use any food, fruits, food materials or feeds in
the production of malt or vinous liquors, or import any
such liquors except under license and in compliance with
lawfully prescribed rules and regulations. Under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

authority thus conferred, the President issued various
proclamations. On December 8, 1917, 40 Stat. 1728, he
issued one forbidding the production of all malt liquor,
except ale and porter, containing more than 2.75 per
cent. of alcohol by weight. On September 16, 1918, 40
Stat. 1848, he issued a second proclamation, prohibiting
after December 1, 1918, the production of malt liquors,
including near beer, for beverage purposes, whether or not
such malt liquors contained alcohol. On January 30,
1919, 40 Stat. 1930, he issued a third proclamation which
modified the others to the extent of permitting the use of
grain in the manufacture of non-intoxicating beverages,
it being recited therein that the prohibition of the use of
grain in the manufacture of such beverages has been
found no longer essential in order to assure an adequate
and continuous supply of food. And on March 4, 1919,
40 Stat. 1937, he issued a fourth proclamation amending
his proclamation of September 16, 1918, so as to prohibit
the production only of intoxicating malt liquors for
beverage purposes.
It thus appears that the President, acting under the
Act of August 10, 1917, has reduced the prohibition of
the use of food materials so that now it is limited to
the manufacture of such liquors as are in fact intoxicating.
In the light of all this action we come to consider the
proper construction of so much of the Act of November 21,
1918, as is here involved, which provides:
"That after June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and nineteen, until the conclusion of the present war and thereafter until the termination of demobilization, the date of
which shall be determined and proclaimed by the President
of the United States, for the purpose of conserving the
man power of the Nation, and to increase efficiency in the
production of arms, munitions, ships, food, and clothing
for the Army and Navy, it shall be unlawful to sell for

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD BREWERY.
210.

217

Opinion of the Court.

beverage purposes any distilled spirits, and during said
time no distilled spirits held in bond shall be removed
therefrom for beverage purposes except for export. After
May first, nineteen hundred and nineteen, until the conclusion of the present war and thereafter until the termination of demobilization, the date of which shall be determined and proclaimed by the President of the United
States, no grains, cereals, fruit, or other food product
shall be used in the manufacture or production of beer,
wine, or other intoxicating malt or vinous liquor for
beverage purposes. After June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and nineteen, until the conclusion of the present war
and thereafter until the termination of demobilization, the
date of which shall be determined and proclaimed by the
President of the United States, no beer, wine, or other
intoxicating malt or vinous liquor shall be sold for beverage purposes except for export."
Nothing is better settled than that in the construction
of a law its meaning must first be sought in the language
employed. If that be plain, it is the duty of the courts to
enforce the law as written, provided it be within the constitutional authority of the legislative body which passed
it. Lake County v. Rollins, 130 U. S. 662, 670, 671; Bate
Refrigerating Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 1, 33; United
States v. Bank, 234 U. S. 245, 258; Caminetti v. United
States, 242 U. S. 470, 485. Looking to the act we find
these are its declared purposes: (1) To conserve the man
power of the nation; (2) to increase efficiency in the production of arms, munitions, ships, and food and clothing
for the army and navy. To these ends it is made illegal to
sell distilled spirits for beverage purposes or to remove the
same from bond for such purposes except for export.
And after May 1, 1919, until the conclusion of the war,
and until demobilization is proclaimed by the President,
no grains, cereals, fruit, or other food products are permitted to be used in the manufacture or production of

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

beer, wine or other intoxicating malt or vinous liquors for
beverage purposes.
. The prohibitions extend to the use of food products for
making "beer, wine, or other intoxicating malt or vinous
liquor for beverage purposes." These provisions are of
plain!import and are aimed only at intoxicating beverages.
It is elementary that all of the words used in a legislative
act are to be given force and meaning, Market Co. v.
Hoffman, 101 U. S. 112, 115; and of course the qualifying
words "other intoxicating" in this act cannot be rejected.
It is not to be assumed that Congress had no purpose in
inserting them or that it did so without intending that
they should be given due force and effect. The Government insists that the intention was to include beer and
wine whether intoxicating or not. If so the use of this
phraseology was quite superfluous, and it would have
been enough to have written the act without the qualifying
words.
This court had occasion to deal with a question very
similar in character in the case of the United States v.
United Verde Copper Co., 196 U. S. 207, where an act per-

mitted the use of timber on the public lands for building,
agricultural, mining and other domestic purposes, and
held that we could not disregard the use of the word
"other" notwithstanding the contention that it should be
eliminated from the statute in order to ascertain the true
meaning. So here, we think it clear that the framers of
the statute intentionally used the phrase "other intoxicating" as relating to and defining the immediately preceding designation of beer and wine. "As a matter of
ordinary construction, where several words are followed by
a general expression as here, which is as much applicable
to the first and other words as to the last, that expression
is not limited to the last, but applies to all." Lord Bramwell in Great Western Ry. Co. v. Swindon, etc., Ry. Co.,

L. R. 9 App. Cas. 787, 808.

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD BREWERY.
210.

219

Opinion of the Court.

The declared purpose of Congress was to conserve the
nation's man power and increase efficiency in producing
war essentials; and it accordingly undertook to prohibit
the manufacture of intoxicating liquors whose use might
interfere with the consummation of that purpose. Other
provisions of the act lend support to this view. The
sale and withdrawal from bond of distilled spirits (always
intoxicating) were declared unlawful after June 30th,
1919-their manufacture had already been prohibited.
The sale of beer, wine and other intoxicating malt or
vinous liquors was prohibited after the same date and the
importation of all such liquors and also of distilled liquors
was made immediately unlawful. The President was
empowered at once to establish zones about coal mines,
manufactories, ship-building plants, &c., &c., and "to
prohibit the sale, manufacture, or distribution of intoxicating liquors in such zones."
The fact that the Treasury Department may have declared taxable under many revenue acts all beer containing
one-half of one per centum of alcohol is not important.
Such rulings did not turn upon the intoxicating character
of the liquid but upon classification for taxation controlled by other considerations. A liquid may be designated as beer and subjected to taxation although clearly
non-intoxicating. "The question whether a fermented
malt liquor is intoxicating or nonintoxicating is immaterial under the internal revenue laws, although it may
be a very material question under the prohibitory laws
of a State or under local ordinances." T. D. 804.
As to the insistence that the Internal Revenue Department has determined that a beverage containing
one-half of one per cent. of alcohol should be regarded as
intoxicating within the intendment of the act before us
little need be said. Nothing in the act remits the determination of that question to the decision of the revenue
officers of the Government. While entitled to respect,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

as such decisions are, they cannot enlarge the meaning of a
statute enacted by Congress. Administrative rulings
cannot add to the terms of an act of Congress and make
conduct criminal which such laws leave untouched.
Waite v. Macy, 246 U. S. 606; United Staies v. George, 228
U. S. 14, 20; United States v. United Verde Copper Co.,
196 U. S. 207, 215.
Furthermore, we must remember in considering an act
of Congress that a construction which might render it
unconstitutional is to be avoided. We said in United
States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394, 401: "A statute
must be construed, if fairly possible, so as to avoid not
only the conclusion that it is unconstitutional but also'
grave doubts upon that score." See also United States v.
Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366. We held in
Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries & Warehouse Co.,
ante, 146, that the war power of Congress, as applied to the
situation outlined in the opinion in that case, enabled it to
prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes. But the question was neither made nor decided
as to whether Congress could prohibit even in time of war
the manufacture and sale of non-intoxicating beverages.
An indictment must charge each and every element of an
offense. Evans v. United States, 153 U. S. 584, 587. We
cannot say, as a matter of law, that a beverage containing
not more than one-half of one per 'cent. of alcohol is intoxicating, and as neither indictment so charges it follows
that the courts below in each of the cases correctly construed the act of Congress, and the judgments are
Affirmed.

