FORGED STEEL WHEEL CO. v. LEWELLYN.

511

Counsel for Parties.

507.

to complete the
petitioner "were required . .
manufactured shell of the contract."
. "Manifestly," as counsel for the Collector says, "the
shell body was not completely manufactured by either of
the companies which were engaged in its production"
but "by the two acting together." And each therefore is
liable for the profit it made, and judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

and MR.

JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

dissent.

FORGED STEEL WHEEL COMPANY v. LEWELLYN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE
FOR THE TWENTY-THIRD DISTRICT OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 526.

Argued January 8, 9, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

A rough shell forging is a "part" of a shell in the sense of the Munitions Tax Act. P. 512. Worth Bros. Co. v. Lederer, ante, 507; and
Carbon Steel Co. v. Lewellyn, ante, 501, followed.
258 Fed. Rep. 533, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. George B. Gordon and Mr. George Sutherland, with
whom Mr: William Watson Smith, Mr. James McKirdy
and Mr. S. G. Nolin were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Friersonfor respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Mr. E. G. Curtis, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curice.
Mr. J. Sprigg McMahon, by leave of court, filed a brief
as amicus curi.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Action brought by petitioner against Leweltlyn, Collector of Internal Revenue, in the District Court for the
Western District of Pennsylvania, to recover the sum of
$246,920.18 exacted from petitioner as a tax under the
Munitions Tax Act and paid under protest. Interest was
also prayed from November 27, 1917.
The tax was exacted upon the ground (and it was so
alleged) that that sum was the tax on the amount of the
net profits received by petitioner from the manufacture
and sale of certain steel forgings used in the manufacture
of shells.
The circumstances said to show the tax to have been
illegally exacted were detailed, of which there was denial
by the Collector; and, upon issues thus formed, the case
was tried to a jury which, in submission to the instructions
of the court, returned a 'verdict for petitioner for the
amount prayed. Judgment upon the verdict for the sum
of $263,258.06 was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The Court of Appeals considered in one opinion this case
and Carbon Steel Co. v. Leweltyn, ante, 501, and Worth Bros.
Co. v. Lederer, ante, 507. The last two cases we have just
decided, and we can immediately say, that if this case does
not differ from them in its facts, it does not in principle. It
will turn as they did upon the construction of ยง 301 of the
Munitions Tax Act (39 Stat. 756, 780 which imposes upon
f(every person manufacturing . , t shells , .
?

FORGED STEEL WHEEL CO. v. LEWELLYN.
541.

513

Opinion of the Court.

or any part" [italics ours] of them, a tax of 1212% for
each taxable year "upon the entire net profits actually received or accrued" for such years from the sale or disposition of the shells manufactured in the United States.
The contention in the Worth Case was explicitly as it is in
this case, that the Words "any part" as used in the act
"means a substantially finished part;" a part, as there
said, which has relation "to the whole structure and to the
purpose it is intended to subserve." Here, it is said, "The
fundamental idea of a manufactured article is that it must
be so nearly completed as to be serviceable for the purpose
I
for which it was designed."
The reasoning of the Worth Case covers, therefore, the
contention here and rejects it, if, as we have said, the
facts be the same, and, we think, they are. There are
some circumstances of complexity but they are easily
resolved and do not disturb the principle of decision. Of
the facts the Court of Appeals said:
"From the proofs it, appears the British Government
made contracts with certain persons whereby the latter
agreed to supply it with high explosive shells in compliance
with the specifications, requirement, and inspection of the
said government. To fulfill such shell contract the contractor made subcontracts with the Forged Steel Wheel
Company, by which the latter agreed to manufacture and
furnish to said contractor rough steel shell forgings of the
character provided in the contract, as to chemical constituents, tensile strength, size, shape, etc. To fulfill its
contract, the Forged Steel Wheel Company either made,
had made, or bought in the market the grade of steel required. This steel was of a common commercial type
known as rounds. These rounds it nicked and broke into
18-inch lengths, which it then heated and put through two
forging processes, by the first of which a holewas pierced
from one end of the round to within two inches of the
other; by the second, the round was lengthened by draw-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

ing it through three successive rings of a hydraulic press.
The output of the Forged Steel Wheel Company's work
was a hollow steel body or shell form, of suitable composition, shape, and length, from which to make, to the British
Government standards, the high explosive projectiles contracted for. The weight of such shell forms was about
170 pounds. To make this shell form suitable for use as a
shell, the contractor to whom the Forged Steel Wheel
Company then delivered it was required to dress, bore, and
machine it down to 77 pounds. This required some 27 distinct and separate processes."
The court after further comment on the facts, and consideration of the opinion of the District Court and its
reasoning, and distinguishing the cases that influenced the
District Court, said: "But in the excise law in question
Congress is dealing with the imposing of taxes as the main
object, and with the work done as a mere incident to aid in
determining the tax. In that aspect the quantum of the
work done is immaterial." And again, "the crucial question is not the quantum of the manufacture measured by
steps, but the fact of manufacture resulting in profits."
Replying to the contention that the purpose of Congress
was not to tax anyone but the manufacturer of a completed shell or the maker of a completed part of a shell,
and that the forging of the Wheel Company was not a
completed part of a shell, the Court of Appeals said, "It is
manifest that, standing alone, the statute neither expresses nor implies any warrant or implication for limiting
the broad, inclusive, generic words 'any part' to the restricted, specific, qualified term 'any completed part."'
The Court of Appeals also considered the rule of construction that statutes levying taxes should not be extended by implication beyond the clear import of their
language and the cases from which the rule was deduced.
The rule was conceded, its application to the present controversy was denied.

FORGED STEEL WHEEL CO. v. LEWELLYN.
511.

515

Opinion of the Court.

For the sake of brevity we consider only the cited decisions of this court. They are Tide Water Oil Co. v. United
States, 171 U. S. 210, 218; Worthington v. Robbins, 139
U. S. 337; Anheuser-Busch Association v. United States,
207 U. S. 556. These were customs cases and the statutes
were given an interpretation on account of their purpose.
They are besides not in point. In the first one the statute
had the words "wholly manufactured," and, giving effect
to them, it was decided that boxes made from shooks imported from Canada, though nailed together and the sides
of the boxes thus formed trimmed in the United States,
were not boxes "wholly manufactured" in the United
States and entitled, upon being exported, to a drawback
under a statute which allowed a drawback on articles
"wholly manufactured of materials imported."
The
Worthington Case was cited. In that case a duty was
exacted upon "white hard enamel" under a statute which
imposed a duty of 25% upon "watches, watch cases,
watch movements, parts of watches and watch materials." This on the contention of the Government that
the enamel fell under the head of "watch materials."
The contention was rejected it being conceded that the
enamel was used for many other purposes than for watch
faces. In the Anheuser-Busch Case a claim of drawback
upon corks exported with bottled beer was rejected. The
ground of the claim was that the corks were subjected to a
special treatment to be fit for use and hence it was contended that they should be regarded as "imported materials . ..
used in the manufacture of articles manufactured or produced in the United States," that is the
bottled beer. We replied "a cork put through the claimant's process is still a cork." The cases, therefore, do not
sustain the contention for which they are cited.
Objection is made to the action of the Circuit Court of
Appeals in simply reversing the judgment of the District
Court and not remanding the case for a new trial. There

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

was no objection made to that action and no request for a
remand of the case. And besides there was nothing to
retry. The case involves only propositions of law.
Judgmnnt affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY and MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

dissent.

DUNBAR v. CITY OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 160.

Argued January 21, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

The owner of a building in New York City demised it to tenants who
in breach of their covenant failed to pay the city'E water-charge
based on the measured amount of water they consumEcd. Held, that
the imposing of a lien for the charge thus incurred by the tenants,
under charter provisions operative when the lease was made, did not
deprive the owner of property without due process of law. P. 517.
Constitutional rights cannot be based on error in prior court decisions. P. 518.

177 App. Div. 647, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Harold G. Aron, with whom Mr. Henry M. Wise was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William Herbert King, with whom Mr. William P.
Burr and Mr. Charles E. Lalanne were on the brief, for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.

Plaintiff in, error, to whom we shall refer as plaintiff, is
the owner of certain real property and a building thereon

