SULLIVAN v. CITY OF SHREVEPORT.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

SULLIVAN v. CITY OF SHREVEPORT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
LOUISIANA.
No. 89.

Submitted November 17, 1919.-Decided December 15, 1919.

The enforcement of a city orainance requiring each street car to be
operated by a motor-man and a conductor, as against a company
seeking to substitute, at less cost, cars run each by one man with the
aid of automatic safety and other operating devices, cannot be declared an arbitrary and unreasonable exercise of police power in
the absence of a clear demonstration that the substitutes, thus operated, would prove as safe and convenient for the public as cars operated by two men. P. 171.
142 Louisiana, 573, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. E. H. Randolph, for plaintiff in error, contended,
in part, that, inasmuch as the court below found the
new car, operated by one man only, quite as safe as the
car in use when the ordinance was passed, when operated
by two, the imposition of the cost of a second man on
the new car, upon the ground that, in the opinion of
the city council, even more safety and convenience
would result, was nothing less than a burden on the
business of the company taking its property without
due process. When the ordinance was passed the city
council had no knowledge of such improvements and
of course no intention to apply the ordinance to them.
And the council does not require now that the new cars
be substituted for the old, but permits the operation
of either kind, provided two men are employed on each.
Mr. James E. Smitherman for defendant in error. Mr. B.
F. Roberts and Mr. John F. Phillips were on the brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.

In 1907 the City of Shreveport, Louisiana, passed
an ordinance requiring that each street car used in its
streets should be operated during designated hours by
two persons, a conductor and a motor-man, and providing
penalties for its violation.
The company with street railway lines in the city
complied with the requirement until in June, 1917, when
it procured some cars equipped for operation by one man,
and attempted to use them on its "Allendale Line," with
only a motor-man in charge. Thereupon the plaintiff
in error, hereinafter designated the defendant, who was
superintendent of the railway company, was arrested
for violation of the ordinance.
He defended by filing a motion to quash the affidavit
for arrest, on the ground that the ordinance was unreasonable and arbitrary and that the enforcement of
it would deprive the company of its property without
due process of law and without compensation, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States.
The motion to quash was "referred to the merits,"
a full trial was had, the motion was overruled and the
defendant, found guilty, was sentenced to pay a fine.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana affirming this judgment is before us for review on writ of error.
The defense introduced evidence tending to show
that the new type of car used was so equipped that it
could be operated by one motor-man with safety to the
public as great as was secured by cars theretofore used
when operated by two men. The car, designated in the
record as "a one-man car," is described as so arranged
that passengers enter and leave it only at the front end,
where the motor-man is placed. It is so equipped electrically that the motor-man must remain in an assigned

SULLIVAN v., CITY OF SHREVEPORT.
169.

Opinion of the Court.

position necessary for the discharge of his duties and
must perform "some conscious act" at all times when
the car is in motion. If he fails in this "conscious act"
the current is automatically cut off, the brakes are
applied in emergency, the rail is sanded and the door
of the car is unlocked, and is so adjusted that opening
it lowers the step for use. There is testimony tending
to show economy in the use of such cars, not only in the
saving of the wages of one man but also in immunity
from accident.
It is apparent from this description derived from the
record that it presents for decision the question: Whether
the ordinance of 1907, confessedly a valid exercise of
the police power when it was passed, was rendered
arbitrary and invalid by the development of a car which
it is claimed can be operated by one man with as much
safety to the traveling public as, and with less cost than,
was secured by the two-man car, in use at the time the
ordinance was passed and which was contemplated by it.
It is not necessary to decide in this case whether a
valid regulating ordinance can be rendered invalid by a
change of conditions which render it arbitrary and
confiscatory (Lincoln Gas Co. v. Lincoln, 250 U. S. 256,
269; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 473; Johnson
v. Gearlds, 234 U. S. 422, 426; Perrin v. United States,
232 U. S. 478, 481; Municipal Gas Co. v. Public Service
Commission, 225 N. Y. 89, 95, 97, and Castle v. Mason, 91
Ohio St. 296, 303), for the claim that such a change of
condition had arisen in the case is stoutly disputed by
the city authorities.
While on the record before us it might be plausibly
contended that when all the appliances on the "one-man
car" work as it was intended they should, it could be
operated with a high degree of safety in streets where
the traffic is not heavy, yet there is evidence that in the
short period of the operation of such cars in Shreveport,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

the brakes on one of them failed to operate on a descending
grade, resulting in the car getting out of control under
conditions, which, except for good fortune, might have
resulted in serious accident. A passenger testified to
receiving slight injuries when entering a car due to the
premature closing of the door, and he attributed the
accident to the presence of other persons between him
and the motor-man whose duty it was to close the door.
It was in evidence that the line on which these cars were
placed, while in general one of light travel, extended
into the principal business section of a city of 40,000
inhabitants; that it had at least one steep grade in it,
and that at times the travel was heavy and the cars
crowded.
It is obvious, and not disputed, that such cars are better
adapted to light than to heavy travel, for all passengers
must enter and leave at one door, and one man must take
fares, make change, issue transfers, answer questions and
also remain in position to start the car promptly. So
occupied and placed, plainly this one man could not
render such assistance as is often necessary to infirm or
crippled or very young passengers, or to those encumbered
with baggage or bundles, and it would not 'be difficult to
suggest emergencies of storm or accident in which a second
man might be of first importance to the safety and comfort of passengers.
These "one-man cars" at the time of trial were, as yet,
experimental, and enough has been said to, show that in
each community the operation of street cars presents such
special problems,--due to the extent and character of the
travel, to grades and other conditions,-that with peculiar
appropriateness they have been committed by the law
primarily to the disposition of the local authorities, whose
determination will not be disturbed by the courts, except
in cases in which the power has been exercised in a manner
clearly arbitrary and oppressive. The rule is, "that every

HARDIN-WYANDOT CO. v. UPPER SANDUSKY.
169.

173

Syllabus.

intendment is to be made in favor of the lawfulness of the
exercise of municipal power, making regulations to promote the public health and safety, and that it is not the
province of the courts, except in clear cases, to interfere
with the exercise of the power reposed by law in municipal
corporations for the protection of local rights and the
health and welfare of the people in the community."
Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223, 235.. Since the
record, as we have thus discussed it, fails to show a clear
case of arbitrary conduct on the part of the local authorities, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is
Affirmed.

HARDIN-WYANDOT LIGHTING COMPANY v.
VILLAGE OF UPPER SANDUSKY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 10.

Argued October 13, 1919.-Decided December 15, 1919.

The law of Ohio providing that the mode of use of village streets by
electric light and power companies should be determined by the
probate court if a company and village authorities could not agree,
was amended so as to leave the control of the matter with the
municipal authorities alone and to forbid the erection of poles and
wires without their consent. Held,;that the amendment was within
the police power; and that a company whose plant was constructed
and operated before the amendment under authority of a village
ordinance granting it the right to use the streets, but which, without the consent of the village, after the amendment was passed, removed its poles and wires used for street lighting, had no ground
to complain that its franchise contract was impaired by the amendment, and its property taken without due process, because under it
the poles and wires thus removed could not be replaced, nor the system otherwise extended in the streets, without first obtaining the
consent of the village authorities. P. 176.

