STROUD v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

1.

The other wells failed for reasons which prevent the outcome from having any significance here. In some the
drilling was not carried to an adequate depth because the
right to proceed was thought to be uncertain by reason of
an executive withdrawal of the lands.
We conclude that the application of prior decisions to
the case made by the evidence entitles the Government to
the relief sought, as was held by the District Court. See
United States v. Minor, 114 U. S. 233; McCaskill Co. v.
United States, 216 U. S. 504; Diamond Coal Co. v. United
States, supra; Washington Securities Co. v. United States,
234 U. S. 76.
Decree of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Decree of District Court afirmed._

STROUD v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

No. 276.

Argued October 22, 1919.-Decided November 24, 1919.

A verdict of guilty as charged in the indictment, under an indictment
charging murder in the first degree, is a conviction of murder in the
first degree, and no less so because the jury adds "without capital
punishment," as permitted by ยง 330 of the Criminal Code. P. 17.
And when a sentence to life imprisonment, based on such a verdict,
is reversed upon the defendant's application (the mandate calling for
further proceedings,) he is not placed twice in jeopardy, in violation
of the Fifth Amendment, when tried again, under the same indictment, found guilty as charged, but without qualification as to punishment, and sentenced to be hanged. Id.
Motions for change of venue and to quash the jury panel, in a capital
case, because of alleged local prejudice and of statements made to
the District Judge by counsel for the Government and of the judge's

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

comments upon them, in the presence of the prospective jurors, are
addressed to the discretion of the judge. P. 18.
Error in overruling a challenge for cause made by the defendant in a
capital case is not ground for reversal if he excluded the objectionable juror by a peremptory challenge, and was permitted to exercise,
in addition, more peremptory challenges than the statute allowed,
the record not showing that any juror who sat upon the trial was objectionable in fact. P. 20.
A person committed a homicide while a prisoner in a penitentiary and
afterwards, while still so incarcerated, voluntarily wrote letters
which, under the practice and discipline of the institution, without
threat or coercion, were turned over to the warden, who furnished
them to the United States attorney. Held, that the use of the letters
in the prosecution for the homicide was not violative of the constitutional provisions against compelling testimony from an accused
and against unreasonable searches and seizures. P. 21.
-Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion. See also post, 380.
Mr. Martin J. O'Donnell, with whom Mr. Isaac B.
Kimbrell was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart, with whom Mr.
W. C. Herron was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

Robert F. Stroud was indicted for the killing of Andrew
Turner. The indictment embraced the elements constituting murder in the first degree. The homicide took place
in the United States prison at Leavenworth, Kansas,
where Stroud was a prisoner and Turner a guard. The
record discloses that Stroud killed Turner by stabbing him
with a knife which he carried concealed on his person.
Stroud was convicted in May, 1916, of murder in the
first degree, and sentenced to be hanged. Upon confession
of error by the United States District Attorney the Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed this judgment. Stroud was

STROUD v. UNITED STATES.
15.

Opinion of the Court.

again tried at the May term, 1917, the jury in the verdict
rendered found Stroud "guilty as charged in the indictment without capital punishment." Upon writ of error
from this court the Solicitor General of the United States
confessed error, and the judgment was reversed. The mandate commanded: "Such further proceedings be had in
said cause, in conformity with the judgment of this court,
as according to right and justice, and the laws of the
United States ought to be had, the said writ of error notwithstanding." In pursuance of this mandate the District Court issued an order vacating the former sentence,
and ordered a new trial. The trial was had, the jury found
Stroud guilty of murder in the first degree as charged in
the indictment, making no recommendation dispensing
with capital punishment. Upon this verdict sentence of
death was pronounced. This writ of error is prosecuted to
reverse the judgment.
The case is brought directly to this court because of
assignments of error alleged to involve the construction
and application of the Constitution of the United States.
The argument has taken a wide range. We shall dispose
of such assignments of error as we deem necessary to consider in justice to the contentions raised in behalf of the
plaintiff in error.
It is alleged that the last trial of the case had the effect
to put the plaintiff in error twice in jeopardy for the same
offense in violation of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. From what has already
been said it is apparent that the indictment was for murder
in the first degree; a single count thereof fully described
that offense. Each conviction was for the offense charged.
It is true that upon the second trial the jury added "without capital punishment" to its verdict, and sentence of
life imprisonment was imposed. This recommendation
was because of the right of the jury so to do under ยง 330
of the Criminal Code, 35 Stat. 1152; 10 U. S. Comp. Stats.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

ยง 10504. This section permits the jury to add to the verdict, where the accused is found guilty of murder in the
first degree, "without capital punishment," in which case
the convicted person is to be sentenced to imprisonment
for life. The fact that the jury may thus mitigate the punishment to imprisonment for life did not render the conviction less than on6 for first degree murder. Fitzpatrick
v. United States, 178 U. S. 304, 307.
The protection afforded by the Constitution is against
a second trial for the same offense. Ex parte Lange, 18
Wall. 163. Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 100, and
cases cited in the opinion. Each conviction was for murder
as charged in the indictment which, as we have said, was
murder in the first degree. In the last conviction the jury
did not add the words "without capital punishment" to
the verdict, although the court in its charge particularly
called the attention of the jury to this statutory provision.
In such case the court could do no less than inflict the
death penalty. Moreover, the conviction and sentence
upon the former trials were reversed upon writs of error
sued out by the plaintiff in error. The only thing the
appellate court could do was to award a new trial on finding error in the proceeding, thus the plaintiff in error himself invoked the action of the court which resulted in a
further trial. In such cases he is not placed in second
jeopardy within the meaning of the Constitution. Trono
v. United States, 199 U. S. 521, 533.
It is insisted that the court erred in not granting a
change of venue. The plaintiff in error made a motion in
the trial court asking such an order. The chief grounds
for the application appear to have been that the testimony
for the Government in the former trials had been printed
and commented upon by the local press; that the evidence
published was only such as the Government had introduced, and its wide circulation by the medium of the press
created prejudice in the minds of the inhabitants of Leav-

STROUD v. UNITED STATES.

15.

Opinion of the Court.

enworth County against him, and that this prejudice existed to such an extent that the jury impanelled to try the
case, though not inhabitants of Leavenworth County, were
influenced more or less by the prejudice existing in that
county against him; that at defendant's last trial the
Government, by issuing pardons to prisoners who claimed
to have witnessed the homicide, produced only such witnesses as tended to support its theory of the guilt of the
defendant of the crime of first degree murder, and that at
the same time the Government invoked the rule that prisoners in the penitentiary who witnessed the homicide,
being still prisoners under conviction and serving terms of
more than one year, were not qualified witnesses on behalf
of the defendant; that the cause was set for trial at a special
term of the court beginning on May 20, 1918, and on said
date the defendant's counsel were engaged in the State of
Missouri in the trial of a cause, that the attorneys advised
the judge of their inability to be present during the week
the case was set for trial; that an affidavit, setting forth
the. above facts, was filed with the court praying it not to
enter upon the trial; that the counsel for the Government
submitted an affidavit in which it was stated that counsel
for the defendant, Stroud, stated their wish and desire to
escape further responsibility for the conduct of the defense
and expressed their hope that something would occur to
make it unnecessary to appear longer in this cause in
Stroud's behalf, and proposed that the Government consent that the defendant plead guilty to the charge of second
degree murder, with the understanding that as a result
thereof the court might sentence the defendant to prison
for the remainder of his life; that said statement and affidavit were read in the presence and hearing of the special
panel of prospective jurors in open court, said jurors being
among those before whom the Government proposed to
put the defendant upon trial for murder; that at the close
of the reading of the affidavit in the presence of the pros-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

pective jurors, the District Judge stated from the bench
that in view of the statements set forth in the affidavit
he was compelled to feel that counsel had acted unprofessionally by not being there in court, at least one of them;
that said facts were commented upon by the public press
of Leavenworth County, and created prejudice against
defendant and his attorneys; that defendant never authorized any person or attorney to make any such proposal to
attorneys for the Government, concerning a plea of guilty,
for the reason that the defendant was not guilty of the
charge contained in the indictment, or of murder in any
degree and that unless the jurors who had theretofore
attended the court during the week of May 20, 1918, were
discharged by order of the court the defendant could not
enjoy the right of a public trial by an impartial jury secured
to him by the Constitution, and prayed an order transferring the case to another division of the district. The
court overruled the motion except in so far as it asked for
an exclusion of inhabitants of Leavenworth County as
jurors, to that extent it was sustained. The motion to
quash the panel, called to act as jurors, was made on like
grounds, and was also overruled.
IThe division in which Leavenworth County is situated
consists of fifty counties, and, after hearing these applications, the District Court excluded persons from the jury
who were residents of Leavenworth County, and refused to
quash the panel upon the grounds alleged. Matters of
this sort are addressed to the discretion of the trial judge,
and we find nothing in the re~ord to amount to abuse of
discretion such as would authorize an appellate court to
interfere with the judgment. Kennon v. Gilmer, 131 U. S.
22, 24.
Certain jurors were challenged for cause upon the
ground that they were in favor of nothing less than capital
punishment in cases of conviction for murder in the first
degree. It may well be that as to one of these jurors, one

STROUD v. UNITED STATES.
15.

Opinion of the Court.

Williamson, the challenge should have been sustained.
This juror was peremptorily challenged by the accused,
and did not sit upon the jury. The statute, in cases of this
character, allowed the accused twenty peremptory challenges; it appears that he was in fact allowed twenty-two
peremptory challenges. Thus his right to exercise peremptory challenges was not abridged to his prejudice by an
erroneous ruling as to the challenge for cause. In view
of this fact, and since there is nothing in the record to show
that any juror who sat upon the trial was in fact objectionable, we are unable to discover anything which requires a
reversal upon this ground. See Hayes v. Missouri, 120
U. S. 68, 71; Hopt v. Utah, 120 U. S. 430; Spies v.
Illinois, 123 U. S. 131; Holt v. United States, 218 U. S.
245, 248.

Cdrtain letters were offered in evidence at the trial containing expressions tending to establish the guilt of the
accused. These letters were written by him after the
homicide and while he was an inmate of the penitentiary
at Leavenworth. They were voluntarily written, and under the practice and discipline of the prison were turned
over ultimately to the warden, who furnished them to the
District Attorney. It appears that at the former trial,
as well as the one which-resulted in the conviction now
under consideration, application was made for a return of
these letters upon the ground that their seizure and use
brought them within principles laid down in Weeks v.
United States, 232 U. S. 383, and kindred cases. But we
are unable to discover any application of the principles
laid down in those cases to the facts now before us. In
this instance the letters were voluntarily written, no threat
or coercion was used to obtain them, nor were they seized
without process. They came into the possession of the
officials of the penitentiary under established practice,
reasonably designed to, promote the discipline of the institution. Under such circumstances there was neither

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

testimony required of the accused, nor unreasonable search
and seizure in violation of his constitutional rights.
Other objections are raised in the elaborate brief filed in
behalf of the plaintiff in error. We do not find it necessary
to discuss them. In view of the gravity of the case they
have been examined and considered with care, and we are
unable to find that any error was committed to the prejudice of the accused.
Alflrmed.

PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY v. POLICE
COURT OF THE CITY OF SACRAMENTO, STATE
OF CALIFORNIA, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, THIRD APPELLATE DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 31.

Submitted October 9, 1919.-Decided December 8, 1919.

When an intermediate state court assumes jurisdiction and renders
a judgment which the state Supreme Court declines to review for
want of power, the writ of error to review federal questions involved
runs to the judgment of the intermediate court, and the jurisdiction
of that court is not subject to question here. P. 24.
In the absence of any particular contract provision touching the subject, the question whether an ordinance requiring a street railroad
company to sprinkle the street within and near its tracks imposes an
undue burden, in view of its general right to operate the railroad
under its franchise, is a question of police power and does not involve
the contract clause. P. 25.
A city ordinance requiring a street railway company, without cost
to the city, to sprinkle the street occupied by its railroad, between
the rails and for a sufficient distance beyond to lay the dust and
prevent it from rising when ears are in operation, is within the police
power. Id.
Such an ordinance does not violate the equal protection clause in dis-

