OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

a rehearing. It does appear in the transcript that plaintiff
in error was allowed twenty-one peremptory challenges,
and it follows that his right to exercise such challenges
was not abridged to his prejudice by the failure to allow
the single challenge for cause which in our opinion should
have been sustained by the trial judge. Furthermore, the
record shows that after the ruling and challenge as to
Williamson, the plaintiff in error had other peremptory
challenges which he might have used; and the record does
not disclose that other than an impartial jury sat on the
trial. See Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131, 168, and cases
cited.
It follows that the petition for rehearing must be denied.
So ordered.

REX, ADMINISTRATRIX OF IVIE, v. UNITED
STATES AND UTE INDIANS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 126.

Argued January 13, 1920.-Decided January 26, 1920.

The primary intent of the Act of January 11, 1915, c. 7, 38 Stat. 791,
amending the Indian Depredation Act, was to remove the defense
of alienage, and it is only cases dismissed on that ground that it provides for reinstating. P. 384.
Assuming that, by omitting the word "band" from ยง 1 of the original
act, the amendment recognized claims for depredations by hostile
bands of friendly tribes, a claim of a citizen previously dismissed
because the depredating band was hostile, though the tribe was not,
is not subject to reinstatement under the amendmerit; and, treated
as a new claim, it is barred by the three years' limitation of the
original act.

Id.

53 Ct. Chms. 320, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion,

REX v. UNITED STATES.
382.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr Harry Peyton for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Davis, with whom Mr.
Geo. T. Stormont was on the brief, for appellees.
MI. JusTIce. HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of
Claims dismissing the appellant's petition upon demurrer.
The claim is for depredations committed on June 10,
1866, by a band of the Ute tribe of Indians, known as
Black Hawk's band. The Act of March 3, 1891, c. 538,
ยง 1, 26 Stat. 851, gave jurisdiction to the Court of Claims
over all claims for property of citizens taken or destroyed
by Indians, belonging to any band, tribe, or nation in
amity with the United States. See Rev. Stats. ยง 2156, Act
of June 30, 1834, c. 161, ยง 17, 4 Stat. 729, 731. The appellant's intestate filed his claim, but on June 13, 1898,
the Court of Claims held that the Black Hawk band of
Utes was not in amity with the United States and dismissed the petition. The present petition relies upon the
Act of January 11, 1915, c. 7, 38 Stat. 791, amending the
first section of the Act of 1891 so that in all claims for
property of citizens or inhabitants of the United States
taken or destroyed by Indians belonging to any tribe in
amity with and subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States, &c., the alienage of the claimant shall not be a defence to said claims, with provisos to be mentioned. The
present petition, filed September 21, 1917, alleges that
the tribe of Utes was in amity with the United States.
The claimant contends that the amendment had two
purposes-not merely to give inhabitants the same rights
as citizens, but also to admit claims for damage done by
hostile bands from a tribe that maintained its amity,
subject to a proviso that suit had been brought upon them

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

theretofore in the Court of Claims. It is said that claims
of that nature that still were pending in the Court have
been awarded judgment under the new jurisdiction. Another proviso in the act is that claims that have been
dismissed by the Court for want of proof of citizenship
or alienage shall be reinstated, and the petition prays
that the former claim be consolidated with this suit,
and that judgment be awarded upon the evidence filed
in the former case. It is pointed out as an anomaly that
the case of a neighbor of the intestate who suffered damage
from the same band on the same day was reinstated and
passed to judgment, his claim having been dismissed at
an earlier date because he was not a citizen at the time.
But we are of opinion that the judgment of the Court
of Claims was plainly right. The emphasis and primary
intent, at least, of the Act of 1915 was to remove the
defence of alienage. When it goes on by an express proviso to reinstate claims dismissed upon that ground and
says nothing as to the other class it is impossible to extend the words. According to the claimant's necessary
argument Congress had claims for damage by hostile
bands before its eyes. On the face of the act it had before
them also the matter of reinstatement. Yet it did not
purport to reinstate claims 'of the present class. According to the claimant's account there was something
for the act to operate on in the way of damage by hostile
bands and the words cannot be carried further than they
go. The Court of Claims rightly held that the old claim
was not reinstated and that considered as a new claim
the present suit was barred by the three years' limitation
in the original act.
Judgment afirmed.

