HARDIN-WYANDOT CO. v. UPPER SANDUSKY.
169.

173

Syllabus.

intendment is to be made in favor of the lawfulness of the
exercise of municipal power, making regulations to promote the public health and safety, and that it is not the
province of the courts, except in clear cases, to interfere
with the exercise of the power reposed by law in municipal
corporations for the protection of local rights and the
health and welfare of the people in the community."
Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223, 235.. Since the
record, as we have thus discussed it, fails to show a clear
case of arbitrary conduct on the part of the local authorities, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is
Affirmed.

HARDIN-WYANDOT LIGHTING COMPANY v.
VILLAGE OF UPPER SANDUSKY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 10.

Argued October 13, 1919.-Decided December 15, 1919.

The law of Ohio providing that the mode of use of village streets by
electric light and power companies should be determined by the
probate court if a company and village authorities could not agree,
was amended so as to leave the control of the matter with the
municipal authorities alone and to forbid the erection of poles and
wires without their consent. Held,;that the amendment was within
the police power; and that a company whose plant was constructed
and operated before the amendment under authority of a village
ordinance granting it the right to use the streets, but which, without the consent of the village, after the amendment was passed, removed its poles and wires used for street lighting, had no ground
to complain that its franchise contract was impaired by the amendment, and its property taken without due process, because under it
the poles and wires thus removed could not be replaced, nor the system otherwise extended in the streets, without first obtaining the
consent of the village authorities. P. 176.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

The validity of an ordinance purporting to repeal an earlier franchise
ordinance cannot be considered under the contract clause in a case
from a state court decided independently of the later ordinance and
without giving it any effect. P. 178.
93 Ohio St. 428, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. H. T. Mathers, with whom Mr. Thomas M. Kirby
was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. R. Hare for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the
court.
In 1889 the Council of the Village of Upper Sandusky,
Ohio, enacted an ordinance, authorizing an electric light
and power company, and its assigns, to use the streets of
the village for the purpose of erecting and operating electric light wires for the distribution of electric light and
power. The ordinance declared that: "The privilege
hereby granted" should entitle the company "to manufacture, sell and distribute light and power by means of
electricity to the citizens of Upper Sandusky, Ohio, for
public and private uses."
The grantee, accepting the franchise, constructed a
generating plant, erected poles, wires and lamps, and
until the year 1912 lighted the streets of the village and
sold current to private consumers. In that year the plant
and franchise were purchased by the plaintiff in error,
hereinafter referred to as the Company, which continued
to light the streets until the contract which its predecessor
had with the village expired. Upon the expiration of that
contract the parties entered upon negotiations for a new
one, but, failing to agree, the company in October, 1913,
removed all of its street lights and took down its poles and

HARDIN-WYANDOT CO. v. UPPER SANDUSKY.
173.

175

Opinion of the Court.

wires used for such lighting, but continued its commercial
business.
In about a year after the company ceased to light the
village streets this action was commenced by the filing of a
petition by the village which, averring the facts we have
stated, further alleged that prior to the removal of the
street lighting appliances the village had submitted to the
company a schedule of fair prices which it was able and
willing to pay for street lighting and which it was willing to
authorize the company to charge for commercial lighting
and for power, but this was rejected; that by dismantling
its street lighting system the company had rendered itself
wholly unable to furnish any light whatever for the purpose of public lighting; that, without the consent of the
village, it was threatening to place new poles and wires in
the streets "to further advance its private interests;"
that it had forfeited all rights in the streets, and that it
was not possible for the village and company to agree upon
terms for future lighting.
The prayer was that the company be enjoined from
erecting additional poles, that its franchise be declared forfeited and that it be required to remove all of its equipment from the public streets.
The trial court dismissed the petition, but on appeal the
Court of Appeals enjoined the company from erecting
poles, wires or lamps in the streets "until the consent of
said village shall have been obtained." This decree was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Ohio in the judgment
we are reviewing.
In its opinion the Supreme Court held that there was no
bill of exceptions or properly authenticated finding of
facts before it and that therefore the case must be decided
upon the assumption that all of the allegations of the
petition were sustained by the evidence; that at the time
the ordinance of 1889 was passed and accepted, the applicable state statute provided that the "mode" of use of

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

the streets "shall be such as shall be agreed upon between the municipal authorities of the .. . . village and
the company; and,' it they cannot agree," "the probate
court of the county . . . shall direct' what the mode of
use shall be, Rev. Stats. (1880), ยง-3471a; 84 0. L. 7, and
Rev. Stats., ยง 3461; and that by an act of the legislature
passed in 1896, seven years after the date of the village ordinance,- the state law was amended into the form which
continued to the time of trial, providing that "in order to
subject the same to municipal control alone, no person
or company shall place, string, construct or maintain any
line, wire fixture or appliance of any kind for conducting
electricity for lighting, heating or power purposes through
any street, .
.
without the consent of such municipality." (92 0. L. 204.)
This amended law of 1896 is made the basis of the only
contention in the case which is sufficiently substantial for
special notice, viz., that by it the obligation was impaired
of the contract which the company had with the State and'
village, arising from its acceptance of the ordinance of
1889, and that it was thereby deprived of its property
without due process of law.
As we haveseen, when the ordinance of 1889 was passed
the statute then in force provided that the "mode" in
which the streets could be used for electric lighting and
power appliances must be agreed upon between the village
andthe company, but that if they failed to agree it must be
determined by the Probate Court, and the apendment,
now claimed to be unconstitutional, consisted simply in
giving to the municipality the exclusive control over the
erection of any such appliances in the streets instead of the
prior qualified control. In this case the original "mode"
of use was determined by agreement without action by the
Probate Court.
The prayer of the petition was that because of the dismantling of the street lighting plant and of its refusal to

HARDIN:WYANDOT CO. v. UPPER SANDUSKY.
173.

177"

Opinion of the Court.

agree to reasonable rates for the future, all rights of the
company in the streets should be declared forfeited and
that it should be ordered to remove from them all of its
constructions, but the decree of the Court of Appeals,
affirmed by the Supreme Court, went to the extent, only,
of restraining the company from erecting any poles and
wires in the streets "until the consent of said village shall
have been obtained." There was nothing in the decree
affecting the maintenance or renewal of such poles and
wires as were in use for private lighting, when the case was
commenced, and that this omission was of deliberate purpose appears from the fact that both courts held that the
state statutes in force at the time the grant became effective, and the form of the proceeding, were such, that a
decree annulling such rights as' the company had then
retained in the streets could not properly be entered in the
cause. On this point the Supreme Court said:
"In this posture of the case, while in view of the statutory provisions which were in force at the inception of the
enterprise the village would not be entitled to annul the
company's rights, still, by reason of the facts stated above
and the voluntary abandonment by the company of its
rights and privileges to the extent set forth, it cannot now
return and repossess itself of such rights as it abandoned
without the consent of the village in accordance with
existing law."
From this state of the record we conclude that the state
Supreme Court did not intend to deal with the right of the
company to maintain, repair, or replace such poles and
wires as it was using for commercial lighting when the case
was commenced, but that its injunction was intended to
prohibit restoring of the street lighting poles and wires
which had been taken down and all new additional construction "until the consent of said village shall have been
obtained," and so restrained its judgment will be affirmed,
based, as it is, upon the statute of 1896, which the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

holds, upon abundant reason and authority, was passed in
a reasonable exercise of the police power of the State.
This act was a general one, applicable to all electric
lighting companies then operating, or which might thereafter operate, in the State, and all that it did was to give
to the municipal authorities complete control over the
placing in the streets of poles and wires for conducting
electricity for lighting and power purposes, instead of the
like control which they had when the franchise was
granted, but subject to resort to the Probate Court in case
of disagreement with the company as to the "mode" of
using the streets. "
We cannot doubt that the danger to life and property
from wires carrying high tension electric current through
village streets is so great that the subject is a proper one
for regulation by the exercise of the police power and very
certainly the authorities of the municipality immediately
interested in the safety and welfare of its citizens are a
proper agency to have charge of such regulation. Any
modification of its rights which the company may suffer
from this law passed in a reasonable exercise of the police
power does not constitute an impairing of the obligation of
its contract with the State or village and is not a taking of
its property without due process of law within the meaning
of the constitutional prohibition. Northern Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Puget Sound & Willapa HarborRy. Co., 250 U. S.
332, and cases cited.
Of the contention that if an ordinance passed in 1915 by
the village, repealingthe ordinance of 1889, were given
effect it would result in impairing the obligation of the
contract, it is enough to say that it first appears in a supplemental answer filed in the Court of Appeals, and the
case, as we have seen, was disposed of on the assumption
that all of the allegations of the petition were sustained by
the evidence. No effect whatever was given to that
ordinance, either by the Court of Appeals or by the Su-

GODCHAUX CO. v. ESTOPINAL.
173.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

preme Court, but each reached the conclusion we are
reviewing independently of, and without reference to it.
Cross Lake Shooting & Fishing Club v. Louisiana,224 U. S.
632, 639; Long Sault Development Co. v. Call, 242 U. S. 272,
277.

It results that, since the change of law complained of did
not impair any federal constitutional right of the plaintiff
in error, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio,
restrained to the scope of its opinion, as we have interpreted it, must be
A flirmed.
did not participate in the discussion or
decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

GODCHAUX COMPANY, INCORPORATED, v. ESTOPINAL, SHERIFF OF THE PARISH OF ST.
BERNARD, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 101.

Argued November 17, 18, 1919.-Decided December 22, 1919.

A writ of error will not lie under Jud. Code, ยง 237, as amended, to review
a judgment of a state court upon the ground that it erroneously
sustained an amendment to the state constitution, where the validity
of such amendment under the Federal Constitution was first drawn
in question by a petition for 'rehearing which was not entertained.
P. 180.
Writ of error to review 142 Louisiana, 812, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. R. C. Milling, with whom Mr. R. E. Milling was
on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.

