OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Counsel for Parties.

251 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF OSAGE COUNTY, OKLAHOMA,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 309. Argued April 16, 1919.-Decided December 15, 1919.
As the guardian of non-competent Osage Indians, whose surplus allotments are submitted to state taxation, under the Act of June 28,
1906, c. 3572, 34 Stat. 539, the United States may maintain a suit
to protect such allottees as a class from being despoiled of their
property through arbitrary, excessive and discriminating taxes,
imposed upon them by the state tax officials in systematic and intentional disregard of the state laws. P. 132. The proper officials of the United States (the United States Attorney
under direction of the Attorney General) have implied authority
to institute and conduct such a suit; and this is recognized by the
Act of March 2, 1917, c. 146, 39 Stat. 969, 983, providing for an
appraisement of the lands to ascertain the extent of over-assessment.
Id.
In such a case the United States is not obliged to resort to the remedies
afforded to individuals by the state law for the correction of mistakes committed in the tax proceedings, but may invoke the equity
jurisdiction to avoid a multiplicity of suits, and secure an adequate
remedy for the Indians as a class. P. 133.
254 Fed. Rep. 570, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Leslie C. Garnett, with whom The Solicitor General

was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Preston A. Shinn, with whom Mr. Corbett Cornett

was on the brief, for appellees.

UNITED STATES v. OSAGE COUNTY.
128.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.
Although the subject was fully stated in McCurdy v.
United States, 246 U. S. 263, nevertheless to throw
light on this case, we recall the facts concerning the
distribution of the land and funds of the Osage Tribe of
Indians made under the Act of Congress of June 28, 1906,
c. 3572, 34 Stat. 539.
Of the tribal land there were reserved from allotment
certain parcels, some of which were used by the United
States or the tribe and others of which were used by
individuals for the benefit of the tribe. From the remainder, each member was allotted three tracts of 160
acres each, of which one was to be designated and held
as a homestead. Any land which remained was also
to be allotted. The funds in trust in the hands of the
United States were divided pro rata, to be held subject
to the supervision of the United States. The oil, gas,
coal, and other mineral rights in all the lands were reserved for the benefit of the tribe. The tract selected
as a homestead was made inalienable and non-taxable,
subject to the action of Congress. The land embraced
by other than the homestead allotment, called surplus
land, was made inalienable for a period of twenty-five
years and non-taxable for three, subject to the action
of Congress. Power was conferred, however, on the
Secretary of the Interior to give to the allottee a certificate of competency, upon receipt of which the surplus
land held by such an allottee became immediately alienable and taxable.
In September, 1917, the United States District Attorney
for the Western District of Oklahoma, by direction of
the Attorney General, commenced this suit in the name
of the United States, for the benefit of named non-competent members of the Osage Tribe and of all other mem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

bers in the same situation, to prevent the enforcement of
state and local taxes assessed against the surplus, although taxable, lands of said Indians for the eight years
between 1910 and 1917 inclusive.
The defendants were the Board of County Commissioners of Osage County, including the county clerk
and county treasurer, officials charged by the laws of
the State with the enforcement of the taxes which were
assailed. After averring the existence of authority in
the United States, in virtue of its guardianship of the
Indians and as a result of the terms of the allotment
act, to protect and safeguard the interests of the Indians
from the enforcement of the illegal taxes complained of,
the bill charged that the taxes in issue were "arbitrary,
grossly excessive, discriminatory, and unfair, and were
made in violation of the rights of the said Osage Indians
guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States
and the constitution of the State of Oklahoma;
that the State Board of Equalization . . . arbitrarily
and systematically increased the assessments on Osage
Indian lands for the year 1911 to an amount approximately nearly double the original amount of such assessments.

.

.

."

It was averred that the tax assessments

made on the Indian lands involved "were made without
an inspection or examination of the land

.

.

.;

that

the said appraisers in making said appraisements discriminated against the lands of the Osage Indians as a
class and systematically overvalued the same and systematically undervalued other property in said County;
that the assessments so made by said assessors
were made in such an arbitrary and capricious manner
as to amount to constructive fraud upon the taxpayers,
and that the overvaluations made by said assessors
were so grossly excessive as to justify the interference of
a court of equity.

.

.

."

It was alleged that the as-

sessments complained of were of such a character that the

UNITED STATES v. OSAGE COUNTY.
128.

Opinion of the Court.

Secretary of the Interior had endeavored to have them
corrected, but without result; that, in consequence of
his having called the attention of Congress to the subject,
the Act of March 2, 1917, c. 146, 39 Stat. 969, 983, was
passed authorizing an appraisement by the said Secretary
for the purpose of fixing the extent of the overassessment
and that such appraisement, which had been virtually
completed, sustained the charges set forth in the bill.
There was annexed to the bill a statement of the result
of the appraisement in 36 cases as compared with the
assessments complained of. In one case it was alleged
that the land of the Indian was assessed at $20 an acre,
although by the affidavit of the county clerk it was shown
that it was worth $3 per acre. In another case it was
alleged that, for the purpose of taxation, the land was
shown to be overvalued by 119 per cent. It was further
averred that an offer had been made through the Secretary of the Interior to pay all the taxes assessed for all
the years assailed upon the basis of the assessment made
as the result of the act of Congress, but that the same
had been refused, and that process for the sale of the
lands for delinquent taxes was immediately threatened.
The prayer was for relief by injunction as against the
illegal assessments and for action by the court looking
to a payment of all delinquent taxes due by non-competent Osage Indians on the basis of the appraisement
made under the act of Congress.
On motion the court dismissed the bill on the ground
"that the lands involved were by Act of Congress, approved June 28, 1906, declared subject to taxation, and
that the plaintiff has no interest in said lands, and has
no duty or authority to contest the taxes thereon, or
the sale of said lands for unpaid taxes. . ." On appeal
the decree was affirmed on the ground that as the state
law afforded adequate means to the United States and
the noncompetent Indians to correct errors in assessing

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

taxes, if any, there was no basis for invoking relief from
a court of equity.
The argument here is exclusively directed to two
grounds, the one enforced by the trial court and the other
sustained by the court below. The first, however, is in
argument here expanded into two points of view, since
it challenges not only the authority of the officers of the
United States to bring the suit, but the power of the
United States to authorize them to do it. So far as the
latter aspect is concerned, it proceeds upon the assumption
that by the Act of 1906 the United States exhausted its
power as the protector and guardian of the Osage Indians
and as to them had no longer any mission or authority
whatever. We pass from this contention without further
notice, as it is so obviously opposed to the doctrine upon
the subject settled from the beginning and so in conflict
with the terms of the act of Congress that nothing more
need to be said concerning it. As to the first point of view,
the proposition is this: That as the Act of 1906 subjected
the surplus lands to taxation, it therefore brought them
under the taxing laws of the State, and, it is insisted,
that having been so brought, it results that until Congress
otherwise provides there exists no lawful authority in
an officer of the United States to act in the name of the
United States for the purpose of attacking the legality
of a tax levied upon said lands under the laws of the
State. But although the premise upon which the argument proceeds be admitted, that is, that in subjecting
the lands to state taxation it was the purpose of Congress
to subject them to the methods of levying and collecting
the taxes provided by state law, including the remedial
processes for the correction of errors, we fail to understand what relation that concession can have to the case
in hand, since on the face of the pleadings the action
taken by the United States was not to frustrate the
act of Congress by preventing the operation of the state

UNITED STATES v. OSAGE COUNTY.
128.

Opinion of the Court.

law, but to prevent the systematic violation of the state
law committed for the purpose of destroying the rights
created by the act of Congress. The argument therefore
disregards the foundation for the relief sought and proceeds upon the assumption that the exertion of power
to prevent a perversion of state laws made to defeat the
rights which the act of Congress gave is to be treated as
a violation of the act of Congress and a refusal to apply
the state law.
Certain is it that as the United States as guardian of the
Indians had the duty to protect them from spoliation and,
therefore, the right to prevent their being illegally deprived
of the property rights conferred under the Act of Congress
of 1906, the power existed in the officers of the United
States to invoke relief for the accomplishment of the purpose stated. Indeed the Act of Congress of 1917, providing
for the appraisement of the lands in question, by necessary
implication, if not in express terms, treated the power
of the officers of the United States to resist the illegal
assessments as undoubted.
And the existence of power in the United States to sue
which is thus established disposes of the proposition that
because of remedies afforded to individuals under the
state law the authority of a court of equity could not be
invoked by the United States. This necessarily follows
because, in the first place, as the authority of the United
States extended to all the non-competent members of the
tribe it obviously resulted that the interposition of a
court of equity to prevent the wrong complained of was
essential in order to avoid a multiplicity of suits (see
Union Pacific Ry. Co. v. Cheyenne, 113 U. S. 516; Smyth
v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 517; Cruickshank v. Bidwell, 176
U. S. 73, 81; Boise Artesian Water Co. v. Boise City, 213
U. S. 276, 283; Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. R.
Co., 244 U. S. 499, 506); in the second place because, as
the wrong relied upon was not a mere mistake or error

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

committed in the enforcement of the state tax laws, but
a systematic and intentional disregard of such laws by the
state officers for the purpose of destroying the rights of
the whole class of non-competent Indians who were subject to the protection of the United States, it follows
that such class wrong and disregard of the state statute
gave rise to the right to invoke the interposition of a court
of equity in order that an ,adequate remedy might be
afforded. Cummings v. Nation1l Bank, 101 U. S. 153;
Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, 390;
Pittsburgh,etc., Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421; Coulter v.
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 196 U. S. 599; Raymond
v. Chicago Union Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20; Greene v.
Louisville & InterurbanR. R. Co., 244 U. S. 499, 507. In
fact the subject is fully covered by the ruling in Union
Pacific R. R. Co. v. Weld County, 247 U. S. 282.
Reversed and remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

BONE v. COMMISSIONERS OF MARION COUNTY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 63.

Argued November 11, 1919.-Decided December 15, 1919.

Patent No. 705,732, (claims 1, 3, 5, 16 and 17,) to Frank A. Bone, for
the combination, with a retaining wall having a heel, of a metal
structure embedded vertically in the wall and obliquely in the heel, so
that the weight of the retained material upon the heel of the metal
structure will operate to retain the wall in vertical position; or of
such a structure having also a toe opposite to the heel; held anticipated in principle by other patents and publications. Pp. 136, et seq.
Patentable novelty or originality cannot be asserted of a device which

