WAGNER v. CITY OF COVINGTON.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

WAGNER ET AL., PARTNERS, DOING BUSINESS
UNDER THE NAME OF W. T. WAGNER'S SONS,

v. CITY OF COVINGTON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 61.

Argued November 10, 11, 1919.-Decided December 8, 1919.

Where a manufacturer of goods habitually causes them to be carried
on his vehicles from the State of manufacture to various establishments of retail dealers who are his customers in an adjoining State,
and there sold and delivered to such dealers in the original packages in
such quantities as they may desire to purchase at the times of such
visits, the business, as thus transacted with them, is that of an itinerant vender or peddler, and may be taxed in the second State under
a nondiscriminating license tax law without imposing a direct
burden on interstate commerce. P. 102.
A state tax which in substance and effect is constitutional can not be
made otherwise by the name it bears in the state laws and decisions. P. 101.

177 Kentucky, 385, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Harry Brent Mackoy, with whom Mr. William H.
Mackoy was on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error:
The goods are shipped from Ohio and sold and delivered
at wholesale in Kentucky in the original packages; are
always in transit except during the short pause incidental
to delivery; when shipped, they are appropriated in a
practical, if not in a technical, sense to the fulfillment of
contracts with certain specific existing customers, with
whom a general understanding is previously had that
plaintiffs in error will furnish them with such as they may
need or desire to purchase of them.
The goods are not carried into Kentucky with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

251 U. S.

intention of having them remain there permanently, or
for an indefinite period, or for sale to the general public;
but meiely for a temporary purpose which is either to apply them to fulfilling the contracts, or to carry back into
Ohio the part not so applied. This is all done and intended
to be done on the same trip of the same vehicle, which
consumes at the most but a few hours. They are never
hawked about, peddled, offered or sold to the public
generally.
This course of dealing constitutes a continuous current
of commerce between plaintiffs in error, as residents of
Ohio, and their standing customers in Kentucky. The
original packages do not become part of the general mass
of property in Kentucky until after the sale and delivery
to the customers, and hence are not subject to state
regulation or control in the hands of plaintiffs in error.
This power does not extend to the taxation of such packages while temporarily within the State, which are in
course of transportation or which are being held therein
only long enough to find out the exact needs of the customers. The person who imports goods in original packages
from one State into another has the right to sell them in
such 1ackages in the latter State as a necessary incident
to the right to import, without being subject to state regulation or control, and this right continues until the original packages are commingled with the general mass of
property in the State either by actual sale, or by breaking
up the packages, or by some other act which indicates
that they are to be so commingled. Leisy v. Hardin, 135
U. S. 100; Lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1; Austin v. Tennessee,
179 U. S. 343; Cook v. Marshall County, 196 U. S. 261;
PurityExtract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192; Adams Express
Co. v. Kentucky, 238 U. S. 190; Price v. Illinois, 238 U. S.
446; Rosenberger v. PacificExpress Co., 241 U. S. 48.
An examination of the decisions of courts of last resort

WAGNER v. CITY OF COVINGTON.
95.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

in the various States shows that all of them are in accord
with this rule, and, so far as we have been able to find,
Kentucky stands alone in holding to the contrary.
Where goods are sent for sale from a place in one State,
with the expectation that they will end their transit, after
purchase in the same form in another State, and when in
effect they do so, with only the interruption necessary to
consummate the purchase at the point of destination, and
when this is a typical, constantl j recurring course of business, the current thus existing is a current of commerce
among the States and the purchase of the goods is a part
and incident of such commerce. Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375.
The current does not cease to flow until the articles are
delivered to the persons for whom they are intended, or
to whom they are destined to be sold, even though the
consignor ships them at the starting point by a common
carrier consigned to himself at the point of destination,
and himself makes delivery to such persons instead
of by the common carrier, and even though the title does
not pass until then. Caldwell v. North Carolina,187 U. S.
622; Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507; Crenshaw v.
Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389; Stewart v. Michigan, 232 U. S.
665; Western Oil Refining Co. v. Lipscomb, 244 U. S. 346;
York Mfg. Co. v. Colley, 247 U. S. 21.
In each of the last-mentioned cases the article was
started to move in pursuance of a previously existing
definite contract of sale-but this is not essential. It is
sufficient that the intention be conditional, depending
upon the ability to negotiate a sale upon exhibition or
after pause for negotiation; or it suffices if the article
is started because of an expectation to sell. Swift & Co.
v. United States, supra; Dozier v. Alabama, 218 U. S. 124;
Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 Uf. S. 1;
Davis v. Virginia, 236 U. S. 697; General Oil Co. v. Crain,
209 U. S. 211. See also Weigle v. Curtice Bros. Co., 248

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

U. S. 285; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342,
362; Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292,
295-298; United States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S.
321, 326-327.
Original packages of interstate commerce themselves
only become taxable when they have come to rest at their
destination or have become part of the general mass of
property in the State.
There is a distinction between the right to impose a tax
on the non-resident importer for the privilege of selling
goods in the original packages and the right to impose a
tax on the original packages themselves after they reach
their destination and come to rest in the State.
There is also a distinction between the right to impose
a tax on an importer who is using persons licensed by the
State to make sales for him within the State and the right
to impose a tax on the importer himself for making such
sales, as is sought to be done here.
The so-called "peddler" cases, Machine Co. v. Gage,
100 U. S. 676, and Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 296, do not
apply, because the license here involved is one for dealing
at wholesale in soft drinks, and under the decisions of the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky and the statutes of that
State, the plaintiffs in error are not engaged in a peddling
business. City of Newport v. FrenchBrothers Bauer Co., 169
Kentucky, 174, 183 S. W. Rep. 532, 536, 537. Moreover,
the business there carried on was purely intrastate, as an
examination of the two cases will show. See Watters v.
Michigan, 248 U. S. 65; Crenshaw v. Arkansas, supra.
Mr. E. A. Stricklett for defendant in error.
MR. JUSCE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought by plaintiffs in error in a
state court of Kentucky against the City of Covington, a

WAGNER v. CITY OF COVINGTON.
95.

Opinion of the Court.

municipal corporation of that State, to recover license
fees theretofore paid by them under certain ordinances
of the city for the conduct of their business in Covington,
and to enjoin the enforcement against them of a later
ordinance calling for further like payments. The several
ordinances, each in its turn, required all persons carrying on
certain specified businesses in the city to take out licenses
and pay license fees; among others, the business of wholesale dealer in what are known as "soft drinks." Plaintiffs were and are manufacturers of such drinks, having
their factory and bottling works in the City of Cincinnati,
in the State of Ohio, on the opposite side of the Ohio
River from Covington. They have carried on and do
carry on the business of selling in Covington soft drinks,
the product of their manufacture, in the following manner:
They have a list of retail dealers in Covington to whom
they have been and are in the habit of making sales; two
or three times a week a wagon or other vehicle owned by
plaintiffs is loaded at the factory in Cincinnati and sent
across the river to Covington, and calls upon the retail
dealers mentioned, many of whom have been for years on
plaintiffs' list and have purchased their goods under a
general understanding that plaintiffs' vehicle would call
occasionally and furnish them with such soft drinks as
they might need or desire to purchase from plaintiffs;
when a customer's place of business is reached by the
vehicle the driver goes into the storeroom and either asks
or looks to see what amount of drinks is needed or wanted;
he then goes out to the vehicle and brings from it the
necessary quantity, which he carries into the store and
delivers to the customer; upon his trips to Covington he
always carries sufficient drinks to meet the probable
demands of the customers, based on past experience; but,
with the exception of occasional small amounts carried
for delivery in response to particular orders previously
received at plaintiffs' place of business in Cincinnati, all

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

sales in Covington are made from the vehicle by the
driver in the manner mentioned. Sometimes the driver
succeeds in selling there the entire supply thus carried
upon the wagon, sometimes only a part thereof; or he may
return after having made but a few sales, or none at all, in
which event he carries the unsold supply back to plaintiffs'
place of business in Cincinnati. The soft drinks in question are delivered in stopped bottles or siphons, according
to their nature, and these are placed (at the bottling works)
in separate Wooden or metal cases, each case being open
at the top and holding a certain munber of bottles or
siphons according to the nature of the drinks and the
custom of the trade; the filled bottles or siphons are
carried upon the vehicle, sold, and delivered in these
cases, each case remaining entire and unbroken, and
nothing less than a case being sold or delivered. The
retail dealers usually pay cash, and purchase only the
contents of the bottles, while the bottles and cases remain
the property of plaintiffs and are subsequently collected,
when empty, by plaintiffs' drivers or agents on their
regular visits; there are, however, a few customers who
pay for and thereafter own the bottles in which distilled
water is delivered. The ordinances were and are respectively applicable to all wholesale dealers in such soft
drinks in Covington, whether the goods were or are manufactured within or without the State.
The trial court and, on appeal, the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky gave judgment for defendant, overruling the
contention of plaintiffs that the ordinances as carried into
effect against them were repugnant to the "commerce
clause" (Art. I, ยง 8) of the Constitution of the United
States, 177 Kentucky, 385; and upon this federal question
the case is brought here by writ of error.
It is important to observe the precise point that we have
to determine. It is indisputable that with respect to the
goods occasionally carried upon plaintiffs' wagon from one

WAGNER v. CITY OF COVINGTON.
95.

Opinion of the Court.

State to the other in response to orders previously received
at their place of business in Cincinnati, plaintiffs are engaged in interstate commerce, not subject to the licensing
power of the Kentucky municipality. The Court of
Appeals in the present case, in line with its previous decisions in City of Newport v. Wagner, 168 Kentucky, 641,
646, and City of Newport v. French Brothers Bauer Co., 169
Kentucky, 174, recognizing the authority of the decisions
of this court bearing upon the subject, conceded that this
part of plaintiffs' business was not subject to state regulation (177 Kentucky, 388). At the same time the court
held that with respect to the remaining and principal
part of the business conducted in Covington, that which
consists in carrying a supply of goods from place to place
upon wagons, exposing them for sale, soliciting and
negotiating sales, and immediately delivering the goods
sold, plaintiffs were subject to the licensing ordinances;
and it is with this alone that we have to deal. If, with
respect to this portion of their business, plaintiffs may be
subjected to the regulatory power of the State acting
through the municipality, we are not concerned with the
question whether the general language of the ordinances, if
applied with respect to some other method of dealing with
goods brought from State to State, might be repugnant to
the Federal Constitution.
From the facts recited it is evident that, in essence, that
part of plaintiffs' business which is subjected to regulation
is the business of itinerant vender or peddler; a traveling
from place to place within the State selling goods that are
carried about with the seller for the purpose. Plaintiffs
in error insist that this view of the matter is untenable
because the courts of Kentucky have held that sales
made to a retail merchant for resale do not constitute
peddling within the meaning of the statutes of that State.
Standard Oil Co. v. Commonwealth, 107 Kentucky, 606,
609; City of Newport v. French Brothers Bauer Co., 169

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Kentucky, 174, 185. These decisions, however, deal
merely with a question of statutory definition; and it
hardly is necessary to repeat that when this court is called
upon to test a state tax by the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, our decision must depend not
upon the form of the taxing scheme, or any characterization of it adopted by the courts of the State, but rather
upon the practical operation and effect of the tax as applied
and enforced. The state court could not render valid, by
misdescribing it, a tax law which in substance and effect
was repugnant to the Federal Constitution; neither can it
render unconstitutional a tax, that in its actual effect
violates no constitutional provision, by inaccurately defining it. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235
U. S. 350, 362.
We have, then, a state tax upon the business of an
itinerant vender of goods as carried on within the State, a
tax applicable alike to all such dealers, irrespective of
where their goods are manufactured, and without discrimination against goods manufactured in other States.
It is settled by repeated decisions of this court that a
license regulation or tax of this nature, imposed by a
State with respect to the making of such sales of goods
within its borders, is not to be deemed a regulation of or
direct burden upon interstate commerce, although enforced impartially with respect to goods manufactured
without as well as within the State, and does not conflict
with the "commerce clause." Woodruff v. Parham,8 Wall.
123, 140; Machine Co. v. Cage, 100 U. S. 676; Emert v.
Missouri, 156 U. S. 296; Baccus v. Louisiana,232 U. S. 334.
The peddler's license tax considered in Welton v.
Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, was denounced only because it
amounted to a discrimination against the products of
other States, and therefore to an interference with commerce among the States. To the same effect, Walling v.
Michigan, 116 U. S. 446, 454.

WAGNER v. CITY OF COVINGTON.
95.

Opinion of the Court.

Of course the transportation of plaintiffs' goods across
the state line is of itself interstate commerce; but it is not
this that is taxed by the City of Covington, nor is such
commerce a part of the business that is taxed, or anything more than a preparation for it. So far as the itinerant vending is concerned, the goods might just as well
have been manufactured within the State of Kentucky;
to the extent that plaintiffs dispose of their goods in that
kind of sales, they make them the subject of local commerce; and this being so, they can claim no immunity
from local regulation, whether the goods remain in original
packages or not.
The distinction between state regulation of peddlers and
the attempt to impose like regulations upon drummers who
solicit sales of goods that are to be thereafter transported
*in interstate commerce, has always been recognized. In
Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489,
Mr. Justice Bradley, who spoke for the court, said (p. 497):
"When goods are sent from one State to another for sale,
or, in consequence of a sale, they become part of its general
property, and amenable to its laws; provided that no
discrimination be made against them as goods from another State, and that they be not taxed by reason of being
brought from another State, but only taxed in the usual
way as other goods are. Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622;
Machine Co. v. Gage, 100 U. S. 676. But to tax the sale of
such goods, or the offer to sell them, before they are
brought into the State, is a very different thing, and seems
to us clearly a tax on interstate commerce." See, also,
Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389, 399-400, where the
distinction was clearly set forth. And in all the "drummer cases" the fact thas appeared that there was no selling
from a stock of goods carried for the purpose, but only a
solicitation of sales, with or without the exhibition of
samples; the goods sold to be thereafter transported from
without the State. Rogers v. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 401, 408;

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289; Caldwell v. North
Carolina, 187 U. S. 622; Rearick v. Pennsylvania,203 U. S.
507, 510; Dozier v. Alabama, 218 U. S. 124; Browning v.
Waycross, 233 U. S. 16; Western Oil Refining Co. v. Lipscomb, 244 U. S. 346; Cheney Bros. Co. v. Massachusetts, 246

U. S. 147, 153.'
Judgment affirmed.
No. 62. Gilligan v. City of Covington. By stipulation of
counsel this case was heard with No. 61, and it is agreed
that a similar judgment is to be entered.
Judgment affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE HOLMES dissent.

OKLAHOMA RAILWAY COMPANY v. SEVERNS
PAVING COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 106.

Argued November 19, 20, 1919.-Decided December 8, 1919.

A decree of a state court directing an assessment of land to pay for a
public improvement should not be so framed as to leave in doubt
the right of the property owner to be heard on the amount of the
assessment. P. 107.
In platting land outside of a city the owners dedicated in fee to a
street railway company, to induce it to extend its line, a strip,
for a right of way, 40 feet wide, along the center of a boulevard,
on condition that the strip be subject to reasonable police regulations and that the grantee construct crossings and curb and
pave them whenever, the boulevard should be paved. Held, that
the strip was subject to special assessment by the city for paving

