OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

committed in the enforcement of the state tax laws, but
a systematic and intentional disregard of such laws by the
state officers for the purpose of destroying the rights of
the whole class of non-competent Indians who were subject to the protection of the United States, it follows
that such class wrong and disregard of the state statute
gave rise to the right to invoke the interposition of a court
of equity in order that an ,adequate remedy might be
afforded. Cummings v. Nation1l Bank, 101 U. S. 153;
Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, 390;
Pittsburgh,etc., Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421; Coulter v.
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 196 U. S. 599; Raymond
v. Chicago Union Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20; Greene v.
Louisville & InterurbanR. R. Co., 244 U. S. 499, 507. In
fact the subject is fully covered by the ruling in Union
Pacific R. R. Co. v. Weld County, 247 U. S. 282.
Reversed and remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

BONE v. COMMISSIONERS OF MARION COUNTY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 63.

Argued November 11, 1919.-Decided December 15, 1919.

Patent No. 705,732, (claims 1, 3, 5, 16 and 17,) to Frank A. Bone, for
the combination, with a retaining wall having a heel, of a metal
structure embedded vertically in the wall and obliquely in the heel, so
that the weight of the retained material upon the heel of the metal
structure will operate to retain the wall in vertical position; or of
such a structure having also a toe opposite to the heel; held anticipated in principle by other patents and publications. Pp. 136, et seq.
Patentable novelty or originality cannot be asserted of a device which

BONE v. MARION COUNTY.
134.

Opinion of the Court.

has previously been described in printed publications in foreign
countries although unknown in this one and to the patentee. Rev.
Stats., § 4886; c. 391, 29 Stat. 692. P. 144.
249 Fed. Rep. 211, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Clarence E. Mehlhope, with whom Mr. Arthur H.
Ewald was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. V. H. Lockwood for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Suit brought in the District Court of the United States
for the District of Indiana to restrain the infringement of
a patent for a retaining wall, which, to quote petitioner,
is "a wall to prevent the material of an embankment or
cut from sliding."
After issue joined and proofs submitted, the District
Court (Anderson, J.,) entered a decree dismissing the bill
for want of equity. The decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, to review which action this writ of
certiorari was granted.
The bill in the case is in the conventional form and
alleges invention, the issue of a patent numbered 705,732,
and infringement by respondent. The prayer is for treble
damages, an injunction and accounting.
The answer of respondents is a serial denial of the allegations of the bill and avers anticipation of petitioner's
device by prior patents and publications, in this and
other countries.
This summary of the issues is enough for our purpose
and we need only add preliminarily to their discussion that
Bone's device has the sanction of a patent and a decision
sustaining it by the District Court for the Northern
District of Ohio and the Circuit Court of Appeals for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Sixth Circuit. The difference of decision in that Circuit
and the Seventh Circuit is an important consideration
and must be accounted for, which is best done by a display
of the patent and the case.
First as to the patent: It describes the invention as being
one that "relates to improvements in retaining-walls for
abutments of bridges . . ., and such places as it is desired to retain earth or other matter permanently in place
with its face at an angle nearer vertical than it would
naturally repose when exposed to the action of the elements or gravity;" and "consists principally of introducing into, masonry of concrete, stone, or brick a framework of steel or iron in such a way that the whole wall is
so much strengthened thereby that the volume of the
masonry may be greatly reduced, and yet the height, base,
and strength against overturning, bulging, or settling will
still be ample."
The following figure represents a cross-sectional view of
the device-A representing the masonry, B the material
retained, and B 1 the earth on which the wall rests. The
metal parts within A are indicated by the smaller letters.

BONE v. MARION COUNTY.
134.

Opinion of the Court.

The patent does not insist upon that form of the masonry in all particulars. The base of the wall may be, it is
said, "varied to suit the circumstances;" the base may
extend to the rear rather than the front "with proper
proportions of metal . . . the form shown in the drawings being what might be called an inverted T, while
those suggested would be in the form of an L or reversed L."
The utility of the wall of these shapes is represented to
be that it is "not so liable to be overturned from the
pressure of material behind it as would a wall of the same
height and area of section, but having a rectangular
trapezoidal or triangular-shaped section," the latter shapes
requiring more masonry. And it is said that the patented
wall, "having more base and less weight" than such other
shapes, "will rest more securely on a soft or yielding
foundation, the weight of the material resting on the
heel" causing the latter "to press on the earth below and
thus cause friction to prevent the whole wall from sliding
outward." This is the especial effect of the patent,
achieved by the wall of -the shape described and distinguishes it, is the contention, from the retaining walls of
the prior art.
The patentee admits, however, that retaining walls had
been "constructed of concrete and steel, but none" to his
"knowledge" had "been supported on their own base as"
his, nor had !'any of them entirely inclosed the steel
within the concrete" nor had "any of them used the
weight of the material retained as a force to retain itself."
Such, then, is the wall and the utility attributed to it.
The combinations which may be made with it are set
forth in 17 claims, of which 1, 3, 5, 16 and 17 are involved
in the present action. Counsel for petitioner considers,
however, that 1 and 17 are so far illustrative that the
others need not be given. They are as follows:
"1. The combination with a retaining-wall having a

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

heel, of a metal structure embedded vertically in said wall
and obliquely in said heel, so that the weight of the retained material upon the heel of the metal structureowill
operate to retain the wall in vertical position."
"17. The combination with a retaining-wall having an
inclined heel and a toe at opposite sides thereof, of a
metal structure embedded within said wall and heel, said
structure consisting of upright bents at the back part of
the vertical wall and continuing down along the upper
part of the heel of said wall to the back part thereof,
whereby by reason of the toe and the heel the weight of

the retained material upon the heel of the metal structure
will operate to maintain the wall in a vertical position."

So much for the device of the patent. How far was it
new or how far was it anticipated?
Bone's idea was conceived in 1898 and his patent issued
in 1902 upon an application made in 1899, but according
to his counsel, the value of the invention was not recognized "until after the lapse of several years," when he,
Bone, brought a suit against the City of Akron, Ohio, in
the District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, in
vindication of the patent and in reparation for its infringement. He was given a decree which was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
[City of Akron v. Bone, 221 Fed. Rep. 944.]
The District Court (Judge Day) gave a clear exposition

of the patent, the relation of its metal parts I to the ma1The following is an extract from Judge Day's opinion:
"The reenforcing members [metallic members] are placed near the
back face of the wall and heel and near the lower face of the toe. The
oblique reenforcing bars in the heel acting in conjunction with the uprights serve the function of a cantilever beam whereby the weight of the
material pressing upon the heel is transferred to the upright portion of
the wall and operates to retain the wall in a vertical position. ", •
"Considering the claims of the patent, and the testimony, I am of
the opinion that Bone, the patentee, was the first to reenforce the retaining wall, or similar wall of concrete or masonry in such a manner

BONE v. MARION COUNTY.
134.

Opinion of the Court.

sonry parts, and their cooperating functions, and adjudged the patent valid and the wall of the City of Akron
an infringement of it.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree. The
court said that the record disclosed nothing which anticipated "the substantial thought of the patent." If it had
done so, or, to quote the exact language of the court, "If
the prior art had shown a structure intended for a retaining
wall, and having a heel such that the weight of the earth
thereon would tend to keep the wall erect, it might be
difficult to find invention in merely adding the form of
reinforcement most suitable to create the desired tensile
strength; but we find no such earlier structures." 1
that the weight of the retained material would be utilized to impart
through the reenforcing members tensile resistance to the stem or
vertical part of the wall, thereby fortifying this part of the wall against
breaking strains.
"This was an advancement in the art and possessed novelty and the
structure of the defendant city infringed this patent.
"While many of the features of concrete structures were old, yet
this combination as outlined and described in this Bone application for
a patent, was new. It is also in evidence that there has been a large
sale and general acquiescence in the Bone patent."
'The following is an extract from the opinion of the Circuit Court
of Appeals:
"The record discloses nothing anticipating the substantial thought
of the patent. Masonry or concrete retaining walls were deep and
heavy, and maintained by gravity in their resistance against a
horizontal stress. There was no occasion for reinforcement. Sustaining walls had been built of concrete with vertical reinforcement;
but they were maintained against side strain by cross-ties or beams,
without which they might tip over. If the prior art had shown a
structure intended for a retaining wall, and having a heel such that the
weight of the earth thereon would tend to keep the wall erect, it might
be difficult to find invention in merely adding the form of reinforcement most suitable to create the desired tensile strength; but we find no
such earlier structures. Those which have that shape are sustaining
walls only, and were so obviously unfit for use as retaining walls that
no one seems to have seen the utility for that purpose, of which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

On application for rehearing the court refused to direct
the District Court to open the case to permit the defendant
to put in proof regarding a German publication of 1894.
Those decisions confronted the District Court in the
present suit and fortified the pretensions of the patent.
They were attacked, however, as having been pronounced
upon a different record and this conclusion was accepted
by the District Court. The latter court found from the
new evidence the existence of a structure upon the nonexistence of which the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit based its conclusion. The District Court
said that Bone was not the first to do the things he asserted he was the first to do, and that whatever the
record in the Sixth Circuit might have shown, so far as
the record before the court "was concerned, the absolute
converse of that proposition" had "been demonstrated."
The court, therefore, as we have said, dismissed the bill
for want of equity.
The decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals; indeed, the reasoning of the District Court was
approved after painstaking consideration of the patent
and an estimate of the anticipatory defenses; none of
which the court said was introduced in the Akron Case,
"otherwise a different conclusion would have been
reached," adducing the opinion of the court. 249 Fed.
Rep. 214. This being so, and there is no doubt it is so, the
present case is relieved of the authority or persuasion of
the Akron Case and it becomes necessary to consider the
prior art and decide the extent and effect of its anticipation.
We have given a cross-section of the device of the
form, when properly adapted and strengthened, was capable. There is
also a prior wall, wholly of metal, fairly disclosing a unitary heel adapted
to hold the wall erect; but to see that this could become merely a skeleton imbedded in concrete may well have required, in 1898, more than
ordinary vision. Upon the whole, we think invention was involved,
and the claims are valid."

BONE v. MARION COUNTY.
134.

Opinion of the Court.

patent, showing its shape and strengthening "metallic
members," and the patent informs of their codperative
function. We reproduce the device and set by its side the
Marion County wall for comparison.

Bo~ii

MARION COUNTY

If we may assign novelty to the Bone wall and consider
it a broad advance upon the prior art (the extent of its
advance, if any, we shall consider later), we may assign
infringement of it by the Marion County wall. To an
examination of the prior art 'we are, therefore, brought.
It would be difficult to add anything to the consideration and comment of the Court of Appeals. The court
cited in support of its judgment a patent issued to Francois Coignet in 1869, and one issued to Stowell & Cunningham in 1899 upon an application made in 1897, and two
articles written by P. Planat which appeared in 1894 and
1896 in a scientific magazine called "La Construction
Moderne," published in Paris; also a publication which
appeared in Germany in 1894 concerning a wall which is
given the name of Bauzeitung wall. The article recites
that a "utility model patent" had been granted, consisting "of a vertical and a horizontal member."
The Coignet patent is somewhat indefinite. It relates,
according to its'declaration, to "monolithic structures, or
articles made of artificial stone paste" into which irregular
shaped irons are introduced to be "arranged in such a

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

manner as to interlace each other, so that by the combination of this metallic skeleton and of agglomerated
artificial-stone paste the thickness of the walls or size of
the articles may be considerably reduced and yet great
strength be attained."
It will be observed that there is nothing explicit of how
"stone paste" and the " irregular shaped irons" operate or
co~perate, aside from their cohesion or interlacing. Their
arrangement is not definite as the "metallic members"
in the Bone patent are, so that there might be, as in that
patent, reinforcing metal in the heel of the wall acting with
its upright portion serving the function, to quote Judge
Day, "of a cantilever beam whereby the weight of the
material pressing upon the heel is transferred to the
upright portion of the wall and operates to retain the wall
in a vertical position."
If there was any prophecy (to borrow counsels' word) in
it the world was slow to discern it, and we are not disposed
to give much anticipating effect to it, a view in which we
have confirmation in the disclaimer of Bone--he conceding
he was not the first to discover the art of reinforcing concrete.
The Planat publications are more explicit. We there
see a relation between the metallic and masonry parts of a
wall and their cobperation to produce strength in the wall
and resistance to the pressure of and bulging from the stress
of earth behind it. Both articles, the Court of Appeals said,
"deal with retaining walls of reinforced concrete of the cantilever type" and quoted from the article of 1896 as follows:
"These computations suppose that one has effectively
realized the fixing of the vertical wall to the horizontal slab
at their junction. This fixing requires special precautions.
The bars at the point of junction exert a pulling force
which tends to pull them out of the concrete.

.

.

But here we have only a half beam on a cantilever span.
It is necessary that the extremities of the bars in the

BONE v. MARION COUNTY.
134.

Opinion of the Court.

region of fixation should be held in a sufficient mass of
concrete or maintained by some other means. .
"One is able to reduce these projections in a very large
measure if one takes care to bind together the vertical
bars and the horizontal bars at their point of intersection.
In this way the pull of the bar is carried not only on its
prolongation, arranged for anchorage, but also on the bar
which is perpendicular to it and whose great length permits it to offer a large resistance to the force tending to
pull it out transversely."
The court did not enlarge upon other examples of the
prior art nor do we think that it is necessary to do so.
The court, however, referred to a publication in "Bauzeitung" and the patent to Stowell & Cunningham. The
former is too technical to quote and the latter has not the
simplicity of the Bone device; but both publication and
patent represent structures that resist a tendency to
tilting or bulging from the pressure of the earth in their
rears. The Bauzeitung article did this by a wall which consisted of a" vertical and a horizontal member" which were
"rigidly connected with each other" and" the ratios are so
chosen that the resultant of the earth thrust passes
through the horizontal part or through the foundation
respectively, so that there exists no longer any tendency
to tilting so long as the two parts continue to be firmly
connected with each other." It is further said, "To increase the stability, the horizontal part is furthermore
connected at its rear end by means of anchors with the
underground." It will be observed, therefore, that there
are no metallic reinforcing members. It is the shape of the
wall-one having a base extending to the rear in the form
of an L, the exact antecedent of one of the shapes described by Bone as having advantage over other shapes.
And there was also the suggestion of the value of a firm
connection between the "vertical and horizontal member." In other words, the publication showed a retaining

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

wall having a heel such that the weight of the earth
thereon would tend to keep the wall erect, an effect and
operation that Bone declares in his patent no wall had
attained prior to his invention. And that effect and
operation the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit considered the essence of the Bone patent, and
the court said that "it might be difficult to find invention
in merely adding the form of reinforcement most suitable
to create the desired tensile strength."
The Stowell & Cunningham structure is, as we have
said, somewhat complex in its mechanical parts. But
these are but details; the physical laws that they are to
avail of are explained so that "the volume of masonry"
of retaining walls may be reduced yet retain their strength
by the use of metallic reinforcements.
Counsel attack the sufficiency of the asserted anticipations, especially the publications, and in effect say that
whatever Conceptions lurked in them conveyed no suggestion of a "concrete entity," to use counsels' words, to execute them, and lament that Bone should be robbed of the
credit and reward of adding to the world useful instrumentalities whicl, but for him, would have remained in theories
and the "dust from which respondent recovered them."
To execute theories by adequate instrumentalities may
indeed be invention, but an answer to petitioner's contention we have given by our comment on the Bauzeitung and
Planat publications and the fulness of their expositions.
Bone may have been ignorant of them and his device may
not have been their suggestion. They seem to have been
unknown to American engineers, not even the interest of
the controversy in the Sixth Circuit having developed
their existence. From this local ignorance nothing can be
deduced favorable to the patent. Its device having been
described in printed publications, although in foreign
countries, patentable novelty or originality cannot be
asserted for it. § 4886, Rev. Stats.; 29 Stat. 692, c. 391.

BONE v. MARION COUNTY.
134.

Opinion of the Court.

Such is the provision of the law and we cannot relax it in
indulgence to what may seem the individual's merit.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, to show the progress of
the prior art, made use of the illustrations ' of the patents
and publications that preceded Bone's and we also avail
ourselves of the same to show that Bone's patent was a
step, not a leap, in that progress, and that the only
originality that can be accorded it is in its special form and
there can be no infringement except by a copy of that
form or a colorable imitation of it. We do not think the
Marion County wall is subject to either accusation and
the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTIcE. DAY

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
I

•

.727WIM-

f.vRzPf,-194

&MU

RW-

1654

t~fftfX&41.rg

&&r.yewas. 1595'

