PUBLIC UTILITY COMMRS. v. YNCHAUSTI & CO.

401

Counsel for Parties.

BOARD OF PUBLIC UTILITY COMMISSIONERS v.
YNCHAUSTI & COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.
No. 190.

Argued January 27, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

Acceptance of a license from the Philippine Government to engage in
the coastwise trade does not oblige the licensee to fulfill a condition
imposed contrary to the Philippine Bill of Rights. P. 404.
In licensing vessels to engage in the Philippine coastwise trade, the
Philippine Government is authorized to require, as a condition,
free transportation of mails. P. 405.
Such authority is found in its continuous exercise by the local military
and civil governments.without interference by Congress; in failure of
Congress to disapprove local legislation, giving it effect, which under
the Act of July 1, 1902, must be reported to Congress; and in its
recognition by the Act of April 15, 1904, which authorizes the local
government to regulate transportation between local ports and
places until American registry of Philippine-owned vessels shall have
been authorized by Congress. Id.
The Philippine Government having thus authority from Congress to
impose the duty to carry the mails free as a condition to engaging in
coastwise trade, its law imposing such condition does not deprive
the licensee of rights without due process, or take property for public
use without just compensation, in violation of the Philippine Bill of

Rights. Id.
The Constitution does not limit the power of Congress when legislating
for the Philippines as when legislating for the United States. P. 406.

Reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Chester J. Gerkin and Mr. Edward S. Bailey for
petitioner.
Mr. Alex. Britton, with whom Mr. Evans Browne was
on the brief, for respondents.

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Was error committed by the court below in deciding
that the Philippine law which imposed upon vessels engaged in the coastwise trade, for the privilege of so engaging, the duty to carry the mails free to and from their
ports of touch, was void for repugnancy to the Philippine
Bill of Rights-is the question which comes before us for
decision as the result of the allowance of a writ of certiorari.
The issue will be clarified by a brief reference to the
antecedents of the controversy. Under the Spanish law
as enforced in the Philippine Islands before the American
domination the duty of free carriage as stated existed.
Upon the cession of the Islands to the United States and
the establishment there of a military government the
existing condition of the subject was continued in force.
It thus continued until the government passed into the
hands of the Philippine Commission and was by that
body specifically recognized and its further enforcement
directed. Thus it prevailed without interruption until
1902, when the first act of Congress providing a general
system of civil government for the Islands was passed,
and it further remained operative until 1904, when Congress passed the act of thaf year specifically dealing with
the authority of the Philippine Government to provide
for the coastwise trade, as follows (33 Stat. 181):
"Until Congress shall have authorized the registry as
vessels of the United States of vessels owned in the
Philippine Archipelago the government of the Philippine
Islands is hereby authorized to adopt, from time to time,
and enforce regulations governing the transportation of
merchandise and passengers between ports or places in the
Philippine Archipelago."
In fact the continued operation of the obligation to

PUBLIC UTILITY COMMRS. v. YNCHAUSTI & CO.
401.

403

Opinion of the Court.

carry the mails free which arose from engaging in the
coastwise trade, it may be taken for granted, remained in
force until 1916, since the obligation was recognized as
being yet in existence and the duty to enforce it for the
future was directed by ยง 309 of the Administrative Code
of that year, in which code were also stated the existing
provisions as to the registry, licensing, etc., of Philippine
vessels. That the requirement continued operative thereafter results from the further fact that it was re-expressed
in ยง 568 of the Administrative Code of 1917, which code
was adopted to meet the exigencies created by the later
Organic Act of the Philippine Islands enacted by Congress
in August, 1916 (39 Stat. 545).
We have not stopped to refer to the Spanish law, to the
military orders, to the reports of civilian officials, and to
the action of the Philippine Commission on the subject, as
above stated, because the references to them were made
below in Marginal Note. A, which Mr, Justice Carson
made a part of his dissenting opinion.
It is undoubted that during all this period vessels were
permitted to engage in the coastwise trade only upon the
issuance to and the acceptance by them of licenses, the
enjoyment of which depended upon the performance of
the legal duty of the free carriage of the mails.
The respondents were in 1916 the owners of steam vessels of Philippine registry, licensed to engage in the coastwise trade upon the condition stated, and the controversy
before us arose in consequence of a notice given by them
to the Philippine Director of Posts that after a date
designated they would no longer comply with the duty to
carry the mails free. That official sought its enforcement
at the hands of the Board of Public Utility Commissioners.
Before that Board the respondents, the licensees, relied
upon the assertion that the section of the Administrative
Code imposing the duty of free mail carriage was in conflict with the provisions of the Philippine Bill of Rights,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

guaranteeing due process and prohibiting the taking of
private property for public use without just compensation. The Board overruled the defense and awarded an
order directing compliance with the law and therefore
prohibited the carrying out of the intention to discontinue. In reaching this conclusion the Board held that its
sole duty was to ascertain whether the law imposed the
obligation to carry the mails free, and if it did, to enforce
it without regard to the defense as to the repugnancy of
the statute to the Bill of Rights, since that question was
proper only to be disposed of by judicial action.
The Supreme Court to which the controversy was taken,
not differing as to the existence of the statutory duty,
reversed the order on the ground that such duty could
not be exacted consistently with the clauses of the Bill of
Rights relied upon. No opinion stating the reasons for
this conclusion was expressed, but a member of the court
dissented and stated his reasons in an elaborate opinion.
It is impossible to conceive how either the guaranty by
the Bill of Rights of due process or its prohibition against
the taking of private property for public use without
compensation can have the slightest application to the
case if the Philippine Government possessed the plenary
power, under the sanction of Congress, to limit the right
to engage in the coastwise trade to those who agree to
carry the mails free. It must follow that the existence of
such power is the real question which is required to be
decided. In saying this we put out of view as obviously
erroneous the contention that, even though the Bill of
Rights applied and limited the authority of the Government so as to prevent the exaction by law of the free
carriage of the mails, that result is not applicable here
because by accepting a license the ship-owners voluntarily assumed the obligation of free carriage. Southern
Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202, 207; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 27-30; Pullman Co.

PUBLIC UTILITY COMMRS. v. YNCHAUSTI & CO.
401.

405

Opinion of the Court.

v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56, 70; Meyer v. Wells, Fargo & Co.,
223 U. S. 298, 300, 301; Kansas City, Fort Scott & Memphis Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227, 233-234; Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Foster, 247 U. S. 105, 114.
To what extent the Bill of Rights limits the authority
of the Government of the Philippine Islands over the
subject of the free carriage of the mails is, then, the
determinative factor. Beyond doubt Congress, in providing a Bill of Rights for those Islands, intended its
provisions to have there the settled construction they
have received in the United States. But it must be and is
indisputable that when the provisions of such Bill come
to be applied to governmental powers in the Philippine
Islands, the result of their application must depend upon
the nature and character of the powers conferred by Congress upon the Government of the Islands. To illustrate,
where a particular activity in the Philippine Islands is, as
the result of power conferred by Congress, under governmental control to such an extent that the right to engage
in it can be made by the Philippine Government dependent upon the performance of a particular duty, it is
obvious that the exaction of such a duty, as such prerequisite condition, can be neither a denial of due process
or a taking of property without compensation.
Coming to the proposition to which the case is therefore
ultimately reduced, we see no reason to doubt that the
Philippine Government had the power to deal with the
coastwise trade so as to permit its enjoyment only by
those who were willing to comply with the condition as to
free mail carriage and therefore that no violation of
individual right could have resulted from giving effect to
such condition. We reach this conclusion because the
possession and exercise of such power in the Islands before
their cession to the United States, its exertion under the
military government of the United States which followed
the cession, and its continuance by every form of civil

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

government created by Congress for the Islands, compels
to that view in the absence of any law expressly providing
to the contrary or which by reasonable implication leads
to that result.
Indeed, the conclusion that the power was possessed
does not rest alone upon the general consideration stated,
since it is additionally sustained by recalling the express
provision of the Act of Congress of 1904, to which we have
previously referred, giving authority for the registry of
Philippine vessels and recognizing the power of the Government of the Philippine Islands to deal with the coastwise trade, an authority which, as it contains no provision
tending to the contrary, must be construed as applicable
to and sanctioning the power which had been exerted
from the very inception of the American domination, to
provide as to that trade for the free carriage of the mails.
In other words, in view of the power to impose the burden
in question, exerted in the Philippine Islands from the
beginning and which was then being exerted under the
authority of Congress, the conferring by Congress upon
the Philippine Government by the Act of 1904 of the
authority to make regulations concerning such trade was a
recognition of the right to make the regulation theretofore
made, which was then in force, and which continued to be
in force up to the time of the bringing of this suit, without
disapproval or change by Congress.
When the authority which the Act of 1904 gave is
borne in mind it makes it clear that the mistake which
underlies the entire argument as to the non-existence of
power here relied upon arises from the erroneous assumption that the constitutional limitations of power which
operate upon the authority of Congress when legislating
for the United States are applicable and are controlling
upon Congress when it comes to exert, in virtue of the
sovereignty of the United States, legislative power over
territory not forming part of the United States because not

UNITED STATES v. THOMPSON.
401.

Syllabus.

incorporated therein. Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244;
Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197, 220; Dorr v. United
States, 195 U. S. 138; Dowdell v. United States, 221 U. S.
325, 332; Ocampo v. United States, 234 U. S. 91, 98.
The error which thus underlies the whole argument becomes more conspicuously manifest by recalling that Congress in the Act of 1904 expressly provided that the authority which that act gave should exist only until
Congress should otherwise provide, and, besides, that
before the passage of that act, the Act of July 1, 1902,
c. 1369, ยง 86, 32 Stat. 691, 712, provided "that all laws
passed by the government of the Philippine Islands shall
be reported to Congress, which hereby reserves the power
and authority to annul the same."
Judgment reversed.

UNITED STATES v. THOMPSON.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 250.

Argued January 27, 28, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

A judgment of the District Court sustaining a so-called motion to
quash, which in effect bars the United States from further prosecuting the alleged offense under the same or any other indictment, depriving the district attorney and the grand jury of their lawful powers
over the subject, is subject to review by this court under the Criminal
Appeals Act as a "judgment sustaining a special plea in bar." ' P. 412.
The grand jury has power to inquire into and indict upon a charge
which has previously been examined and ignored by another grand
jury; the United States attorney has power to invoke such a re-.
examination; and the exercise of these powers is not subject to be
denied at the discretion of the District Court. P. 413.
Hence, a judgment quashing an indictment because the United States
attorney did not obtain permission from the court to make the re-

