HAYS v. PORT OF SEATTLE.
Counsel for Parties.

HAYS v. PORT OF SEATTLE ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 70. Argued November 12, 1919.-Decided January 5, 1920.
A bill setting up obligations of a contract with a State and charging
that they were. impaired by subsequent state legislation held to
present a controversy under the Constitution, conferring jurisdiction upon the District Court and warranting a direct appeal under
§ 238, Jud. Code. P. 237.
There is a distinction between a statute that has the effect of violating
or repudiating a contract made by a State and one that impairs its
obligation. Id.
Appellant contracted with the State of Washington to excavate certain
waterways in Seattle Harbor for a certain compensation, using
excavated material in filling in adjacent state lands, upon which
he was to have a lien to secure the compensation; but after long
delays without substantial performance by the contractor an act
was passed to abandon the project and vest the title to the lands
in a municipality. Held, that the obligation- of the contract was
not thereby impaired. Id.
An appropriation of private property for a public purpose by an act
of a state legislature is not violative of the Fourteenth Amendment
if a general law permits the owner, upon giving security for costs, to
sue the State in her courts and provides that any judgment for his
damages and costs shall be paid out of the state treasury. P. 238.
In the federal equity practice the defense of laches need not be set up
by plea or answer but may be taken advantage of either by demurrer or upon final hearing. P. 239.
226 Fed. Rep. 287, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William F. Hays in propria persona.
Mr. L. T. Turner, with whom Mr. 0. B. Thorgrimson and

Mr. Harold Preston were on the brief, for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE PITNEY

251 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

Appellant filed his bill in equity for an injunction to
restrain the enforcement of an act of the legislature of the
State of Washington, approved March 11, 1913 (Sess.
Laws, p. 195), entitled "An act vacating a portion of
Smith's Cove Waterway, in the city of Seattle, and
vesting the title of the vacated portion in the port of
Seattle," upon the ground (a) that it impaired the obligation of an existing contract between him and the State,
in violation of § 10 of Art. I of the Constitution of the
United States; and (b) that it deprived him of property
without due process of law, contrary to § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment. The District Court on final hearing
dismissed the bill (226 Fed. Rep. 287), and the case is
brought here by direct appeal under § 238, Jud. Code,
because of the constitutional questions.
The facts, shortly stated, are, as follows: Under an act
of the legislature approved March 9, 1893 (Sess. Laws,
p. 241), which made provision for the excavation by
private contract of waterways for the uses of navigation,
complainant and another party to whose rights he has
succeeded obtained a contract with the State, acting by
the Commissioner of Public Lands, which was approved
by the Governor on March 7, 1896. It provided for the
excavation by complainant of Smith's Cove Waterway, in
Seattle Harbor, extending from the outer harbor line
through the intervening tide lands to the head of Smith's
Cove, the excavated material to be used for filling in and
raising above high tide the adjacent tide and shore lands
belonging to the State of Washington. For doing this he
was to be entitled to compensation equivalent to the
cost of the work plus 15 per centum and interest, for which
he was to have a lien upon the tide and shore lands so
filled in. The State agreed to hold these lands subject to
the operation of the contract pending its execution, and

HAYS v. PORT OF SEATTLE.
233.

Opinion of the Court.

subject to the ultimate lien of the contractor thereon, and
that it would perform by its authorized agents all things
required by the Act of 1893 to be performed by the
State. The contract provided for and specified the character of the bulkheads and retaining walls to be used,
reserving, however, to the Commissioner of Public Lands
the right to modify these plans and specifications as to
"shape, form, and character of material" as might appear
necessary. The contract required complainant at his own
cost to excavate also a waterway to extend from the north
end of the Smith's Cove Waterway across the peninsula
separating the Cove from Salmon Bay, such excavation to
be made under the direction and in accordance with the
plans of an engineer to be designated by the Governor
of the State or the Secretary of War of the United States,
and when excavated to be owned, possessed, and controlled
by the United States or by the State, free of cost to them,
if the right of way and the privilege of excavating across
the peninsula should be accorded to the contractor free
of cost or if fair compensation should be made to him
therefor. Work was to be commenced within sixty days
and completed within two years from the date of approval.
On May 4, 1896, complainant entered upon performance of the contract and commenced driving piles for the
construction of a bulkhead. Almost immediately he was
notified by the Commissioner of Public Lands that the
latter elected to exercise the right, as provided by the
contract, to change the form of bulkhead. This had the
effect of requiring a suspension of work until modified
plans and specifications for the bulkheads should be
prepared. Complainant did suspend the work, and it
never was resumed thereafter. There were negotiations
and correspondence between him and the Commissioner of
Public Lands looking to the preparation of the modified
plans and specifications, but they resulted in nothing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Each party seems to have insisted that it was the duty of
the other to furnish them.
Complainant contends that he was at all times ready
and prepared to carry out the contract on his part, but
was prevented from doing so by acts and omissions of the
State and its representatives, including the failure to
furnish plans for the modified form of bulkhead and a
failure to furnish complainant with a right of way across
the peninsula between the head of Smith's Cove and
Salmon Bay. Defendants contend that repeatedly, and
in particular in the month of November, 1898, complainant was notified that his plans were wholly inadequate
and would be insufficient for the purpose for which the
retaining wall was designed; and that on the latter occasion he was notified to submit proper plans and specifications and to commence operations within ten days after
their approval..
While the excavation project thus remained in suspense,
and pursuant to an act "Authorizing Establishment of
Port Districts," approved March 14, 1911 (Sess. Laws,
p. 412), the Port of Seattle was established as a municipal
corporation with territorial limits including Smith's Cove
Waterway, Salmon Bay, and .the intervening peninsula.
This act conferred extensive powers for, the regulation,
control, and improvement of the harbor and navigable
and non-navigable waters within such district, in the
interest of the public.
Thereafter, by the statute that is now under attack
(Sess. Laws 1913, p. 195) it was enacted that the northerly part of the Smith's Cove Waterway should be vacated
and the title thereto vested in the Port of Seattle. Complainant was fully advised of this legislative measure, even
prior to its enactment.
After it took effect, which was in June, 1913, the Port
Commission took possession of the waterway, exercised
control over it, and did a considerable amount of excava-

HAYS v. PORT OF SEATTLE.
233.

Opinion of the Court.

tion, filling, and bulkhead construction, having spent
large sums of money therein between the taking effect of
the act and November 14, 1914, when the bill of complaint was filed.
Coming to the questions raised upon the present appeal:
The averments of the bill setting up the alleged obligations of complainant's contract with the State, and the
contention that they were impaired by the Act of 1913,
presented a controversy under the Constitution of the
United States, and (a sufficient amount being involved)
conferred jurisdiction upon the federal court irrespective
of the citizenship of the parties, and at the same time
warranted a direct appeal to this court under § 238,
Judicial Code. Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. R.
Co., 244 U. S. 499, 508.
The merits remain for determination.
Upon the first constitutional point, it is important to
note the distinction between a statute that has the effect
of violating or repudiating a contract previously made by
the State and one that impairs its obligation. Had the
legislature of Washington, pending performance or after
complete performance by complainant, passed an act to
alter materially the scope of his contract, to diminish his
compensation, or to defeat his lien upon the filled lands,
there would no doubt have been an attempted impairment
of the obligation. The legislation in question had no
such purpose or effect. It simply, after seventeen years
of delay without substantial performance of the contract,
provided that the project should be abandoned and title
to the public lands turned over to the municipality. Supposing the contract had not been abandoned by complainant himself or terminated by his long delay, its
obligation remained as before, and formed the measure of
his right to recover from the State for the damages sustained. Brown v-. Colorado, 106 U. S. 95, 98; St. Paul Gas
Light Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142, 148-150; Dawson v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Columbia Trust Co., 197 U. S. 178, 181; Lord v. Thomas,
64 N. Y. 107; Caldwell v. Donaghey, 108 Arkansas, 60, 64;
45 L. R. A., N. S., 721; Ann. Cas. 1915 B, 133.
We deem it clear also that the Act of 1913 had not the
effect of depriving complainant of property without due
process of law, in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment. Assuming he had property rights and that they
were taken, it clearly was done for a public purpose, and
there was adequate provision for compensation in §§ 886890, Rem. & Ball. Code of Washington, which entitle any
person having a claim against the State to begin an action
thereon in a designated court upon the mere giving of
security for costs, whereupon service of the complaint is
to be made upon the Attorney General and Secretary of
State, the action is to proceed in all respects as other
actions, with a right of appeal to the Supreme Court,
and, in case of a final judgment against the State, a
transcript of it is to be furnished to the Auditor of State,
who is required thereupon to "audit the amount of damages and costs therein awarded, and the same shall be
paid out of the state treasury." If his claim has not been
barred by limitation of time, this statute constitutes an
adequate provision for assured payment of any compensation due to complainant without unreasonable delay;
and hence satisfies the requirement of due process of law as
clearly as if the ascertainment of compensation had preceded the taking. Bragg v. Weaver, ante, 57.
The District Court, besides finding complainant's case
to be otherwise without merits, held in effect that he was
barred from relief in equity by laches, because after the
taking effect of the Act of 1913 he stood by for more than a
year and permitted the Port Commission- to enter upon
extensive improvements and expend large moneys on the
waterway and adjoining lands, before he began his suit.
The only answer made to this is that the defense of laches
was not pleaded. But in the equity practice of the courts

SCHALL v. CAMORS.
233.

Syllabus.

of the United States (excepted from the Conformity Act,
see Rev. Stats., §§ 913-914) laches is a defense that need
not be set up by plea or answer. It rests upon the longestablished doctrine of courts of equity that their extraordinary relief will not be accorded to one who delays
the assertion of his claim for an unreasonable length of
time, especially where the delay has led to a change of
conditions that would render it unjust to disturb them at
his instance. It is for the complainant in his bill to excuse
the delay in seeking equitable relief, where there has been
such; and if it be not excused his laches may be taken advantage of either by demurrer or upon final hearing. Maxwell v. Kennedy, 8 How. 210, 222; Badger v. Badger, 2
Wall. 87, 95; Marsh v. Whitmore, 21. Wall. 178, 185;
Sullivan v. Portland, etc., R. R. Co., 94 U. S. 806, 811;
National Bank v. Carpenter, 101 U.. S. 567; Landsdale v.
Smith, 106 U. S. 391; Hammond v. Hopkins, 143 U. S.
224, 250; Galliher v. Cadwell, 145 U. S. 368, 371-373;
Hardt v. Heidweyer, 152 U. S. 547, 559; Abraham v.
Ordway, 158 U. S. 416, 420; Willard v. Wood, 164 U. S.
502, 524; Penn Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Austin, 168 U. S.
685, 696-698.
Decree affirmed.

SCHALL ET AL. v. CAMORS ET AL., TRUSTEES OF
THE BANKRUPT ESTATES OF LEMORE, BANKRUPT, AND OF CARRIERE, BANKRUPT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 84.

Argued November 17, 1919.-Decided January 5, 1920.

Section 63a of the Bankruptcy Act, defining provable debts, does not
include a claim for unliquidated damages, arising out of a pure tort
which neither constitutes a breach of an express contract nor results

