OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

BRANSON, SHERIFF AND COLLECTOR OF CRAWFORD COUNTY, ET AL. v. BUSH, RECEIVER
OF THE ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 82. Argued November 14, 1919.-Decided December 22, 1919.
A tax law of Arkansas (Acts 1911, p. 233), providing for the valuation
of all the property of railroad companies, tangible and intangible,
with assessment of buildings and side tracks, as real estate, in the
town or district where located, and of main line, also as real estate, to
be apportioned according to actual mileage in each town or district,
declares that the franchises of such companies, "other than the right
to be a corporation," are property and "shall be considered" in
assessing their property. Held, that this does not necessarily import an addition of franchise value, viewed as personal property, to
the assessment of tracks and buildings in a particular district, but
requires these to be assessed at their value as realty but having regard to their use as part of a railroad; and that a special improvement tax, based on an assessment presumably so made, can not
be declared invalid upon the ground of being so unequal, compared
with assessments on other real estate of the district, as to violate
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 185.
A legislative determination that lands will be benefited by a public
improvement for which a special tax is authorized is conclusive, unless it is arbitrary and wholly unwarranted. P. 189.
A declaration by a state legislature that real estate of a railroad company, consisting of main and side tracks and buildings in a road
improvement district, will be benefited by a road improvement,
is not arbitrary or unwarranted where there is reasonable ground
for concluding that the railroad's traffic will thereby be increased.
P. 190.
248 Fed. Rep. 377, reversed.

Tm case is stated in the opinion.

BRANSON v. BUSH.
182.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. G. B. Rose, with whom Mr. W. E. Hemingway,
Mr. D. H. Cantrell and Mr. J. F. Loughborough were on
the briefs, for appellants.
Mr. Thomas B. Pryor, with whom Mr. Edward J.
White was on the briefs, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
By act of the General Assembly the State of Arkansas
created "Crawford County Road Improvement District
No. 2," a body corporate, and prescribed its boundaries.
Special and Private Acts of Arkansas, 1911, p. 642.
To pay the cost of the road improvement contemplated
the act provided that it should be made a charge upon, all
of the real property, railroads and tramroads in the district. Bonds were sold and the road completed before
this suit was commenced to enjoin the collection of taxes
charged against the property of the railway company, of
which the appellee, hereinafter designated the Company,
was receiver. The tax objected to was imposed upon the
assessed value of the main track, sidetracks, rolling stock,
buildings and material of the Company apportioned to
the road district under a state law for the valuation of
railroad property, and in the bill it is alleged to be invalid
because the assessment conflicts with many provisions of
the Constitutions of the United States and of Arkansas.
The rate was the same for all real property in the district.
The District Court permanently enjoined the tax to the
extent that it was imposed on personal property-the
rolling stock and materials of the Company. From this
part of the decree no appeal was taken and thereafter all
question as to the invalidity of the assessment because
including rolling stock and materials disappeared from the
case. But, for want of equity, the bill was dismissed so

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

far as applicable to the real estate "designated in the bill
of complaint as main track, side track, and buildings."
On appeal by- the Company from this part of the decree,
the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decree of the
District Court and enjoined the collection of the tax on
the real estate on two grounds:
(1) Because the including of the franchise and other
intangible property of the Company in the assessment
results in "a higher rate of taxation" on the property of
the railway company than on the other property in the
district, and
(2) Because the evidence fails to show that the Company would derive any benefit from the improvement of
the road.
In this court the appellants, hereinafter referred to as
the Road District, assign as errors these two holdings
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and we shall consider
them in the order stated.
All property of the railway company in the State was
assessed by a State Tax Commission under an act, the
validity of which is not assailed, providing:
"The franchises (other than the right to be a corporation) of all railroads . . . 'are declared to be property for the purpose of taxation and the value of such
franchises shall be considered by the assessing officers when
assessing the property of such corporations." Acts of
Arkansas, 1911, p. 233, ยง 2.
The act also required the Commission to "determine
the total value of the entire property of the corporation,
tangible and intangible"; that the buildings and sidetracks should be assessed as real estate in the town or district where located, but that the main track, also to be
assessed as real estate, should be apportioned among the
several towns and districts through which the road ran
according to the "actual mileage in each town and district."
/

BRANSON v. BUSH.
182.

Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court of Appeals did not hold either the
railroad valuation or the district road improvement law
unconstitutional, both being types of laws often upheld by
this court (State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575; Cleveland, etc., Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 439, and Houck v.
Little River Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254), but the
first ground of its decision was, only, that the assessment
of the main track under the former law, as applied to the
case of taxation for benefits provided for by the latter,
resulted in unequal taxation to an extent amounting to a
denial of the equal protection of the laws.
The court was carried to its conclusion by this process:
The act creating the Road District, and the general law
applicable to local assessments in proportion to benefits,
both required that only real estate should be assessed
to pay for the improvement here involved; only the real
estate of the other property owners of the District was
assessed, and therefore when the franchises, personalty,
of the railroad company were "considered" in making
the assessment complained of, the Company was taxed
a "higher rate," a greater amount, than other property
owners and by such discrimination was denied the equal
protection*of the laws.
It is argued by the Road District that this conclusion
is erroneous, for the reasons following:
The assessment law, which we have quoted, provides
that the franchises of railroad companies ("other than
the right to be a corporation") " shall be considered" by
officials when assessing their property.
It is to be noted that this law does not provide for
the assessment of the franchises of railroad' companies
separately as personal, or intangible, property, as the
laws of some States require, but only declares that they
are "property" which "shall be considered by the assessing officers when assessing the property of such corporations" and they are not valued separately in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

assessment complained of, as it is itemized in the bill of

complaint.
It is not easy to define just what is meant by the
"franchise" of a railroad company "other than the right
to be a corporation" and the record does not attempt
a definition.

Morgan v. Louisiana, 93 U. S. 217, 223.

The record is also silent as to what, if any, value was
placed upon the franchises of the Company here involved by the State Tax Commission, and as to what
extent, if at all, they were "considered" in arriving at
the assessment objected to, and therefore, it is contended,
that the conclusion of the Circuit Court of Appeals that
personal property value was included in the assessment
of the real estate within the District has no foundation on
which to rest, other than the assumption that the Tax
Commission conformed to the law and "considered" the
franchises when assessing the real estate and that this
necessarily resulted, in fact, if not in form, in such inclusion-an unusually meager basis surely for invalidating
a tax of the familiar character of this before us.
If, however, the distinction sometimes taken between
the "essential properties of corporate existence" and
the franchises of a corporation (Memphis & Little Rock
R. R. Co. v. Railroad Commissioner, 112 U. S. 609, 619),
be considered substantial enough to be of practical
value, and if it be assumed that the distinction was
applied by the State Commission in making the assessment here involved, this would result, not in adding

personal property value to the value of the real estate
of the Company in the district, but simply in determining
what the value of the real property was-its right of
way, tracks and buildings-having regard to the use
which it made of it as an instrumentality for earning
money in the conduct of railroad operations. This at
most is no more than giving to the real property a value
greater as a part of a railroad unit and a going concern

BRANSON v. BUSH.
182.

Opinion of the Court.

than it would have if considered only as a quantity of
land, buildings and tracks.
This is the method of assessing railroad property
often approved by this court, specifically in Cleveland,
etc., Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 439, 445, saying:
"The rule of property taxation is that the value of
the property is the basis of taxation. It does not mean
a tax upon the earnings which the property makes, nor
for the privilege of using the property, but rests solely
upon the value. But the value of property results from
the use to which it is put and varies with the profitableness of that use, present and prospective, actual and
anticipated. There is no pecuniary value outside of
that which results from such use. The amount and
profitable character of such use determines the value,
and if property is taxed at its actual cash value it is
taxed upon something which is created by the uses to
which it is put. In the nature of things it is practically
impossible-at least in respect to railroad property-to
divide its value, and determine how much is caused by
one use to which it is put and how much by another."
And long experience has confirmed the statement by
Mr. Justice Miller in State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S.
575, 608, that: "It may well be doubted whether any
better mode of determining the value of that portion
of the track within any one county has been devised
than to ascertain the value of the whole road, and apportion the value within the county by its relative length
to the whole." And see Kentucky Railroad Tax Cases,
115 U. S. 321, in which, also, the contention is disposed
of that the railroad track should be valued by the same
officials and on the same basis of acreage as farm lands
* adjacent to it.
Thus, the assessment complained of was made under
valid laws and in a manner approved and customary
in arriving at the value of that part of railroad tracks

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

situate in a State, county or district. So far as this record
shows, the assessment, modified by the part of the decree
of the District Court not appealed from, is not a composite of real and personal property values, but is the
ascertained value of the real estate-the tracks and
buildings-of the Company within the taxing district,
enhanced, no doubt, by the special use made of it, but
still its value as a part of the railroad unit, resulting
from the inherent nature of the business in which it is
employed, a value which will not be resolved into its
constituent elements for the purpose of defeating contribution to a public improvement. No attempt was
made to prove fraudulent, or capricious or arbitrary
action on the part of any officials in making the assessment, the only evidence upon the subject being the
opinions of four employees of the Company that the
improvement of the road would not benefit the railroad
property, and if inequality has resulted from the application of the state law in a customary manner to a situation
frequently arising in our country, it is an incidental
inequality resulting from a valid classification of railroad
property for taxation purposes which does not fall within
the scope of the Fourteenth Amendment, -which "was
not intended to compel the State to adopt an iron rule
of equal taxation." Bell's Gap R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
134 U. S. 232, 237. And see French v. Barber Asphalt
Paving Co., 181 U. S. 324; Cass Farm Co. v. Detroit,
181 U. S. 396, 398; Detroit v. Parker, 181 U. S. 399.
Thus, the basis for assuming that the franchises of
the railroad company were added as a separate personal
property value to the assessment of the real property
of the Company becomes, upon this record, much too
unsubstantial to justify invalidating the tax involved
if it be otherwise valid, and the first assignment of error
must therefore be sustained.
But the holding of the Circuit Court of Appeals that

BRANSON v. BUSH.
182.

Opinion of the Court.

"the evidence fails to show that the railroad company
derives any benefit from the road" is also assigned as
error.
In the act of the General Assembly creating this Road
District it is provided:
"Section 5. It is ascertained and hereby declared
that all real property within said district, including
railroads and tramroads, will be benefited by the building of the said highway more than the cost thereof as
appropriated in the county assessment of each piece
of property within the district, for this and the succeeding years, and the cost thereof is made a charge upon
such real property superior to all other mortgages and
liens except the liens for the ordinary taxes, and for
improvement districts heretofore organized;
"
Special and Private Acts of Arkansas, 1911, 642, 645.
Where, in laws creating districts for local improvements and taxation, there is such a legislative declaration
as this, as to what lands within the district will be benefited by the improvement, the law with respect to the
extent to which such determination may be reviewed
by the courts is so well settled,, and has so lately been
reexamined and restated by this court, that extended
discussion of the subject is not justified.
In Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S. 345,-a decision
often cited and approved-it is decided that if the proposed improvement is one which the State had authority
to make and pay for by assessments on property benefited,
the legislature, in the exercise of the taxing power, has
authority to determine, by the statute imposing the tax,
what lands, which might be benefited by the improvement,
are in fact benefited by it; and if it does so, its determination is conclusive upon the owners and the courts, and the
owners have no right to be heard on the question whether
their lands have been benefited or not.
The subject was carefully reexamined and the law

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

restated in cases so recent as Wagner v. Baltimore, 239
U. S. 207, and Houck v. Little River Drainage District,
239 U. S. 254, with the result that the rule as we have
stated it was approved, with the qualification, which
was before implied, that the legislative determination
can be assailed under the Fourteenth Amendment only
where the legislative action is "arbitrary and wholly
unwarranted," "a flagrant abuse, and by reason of its
arbitrary character is mere confiscation of particular
property." And see Withnell v. Ruecking Construction
Co., 249 U. S. 63, 69; Hancock v. Muskogee, 250 U. S.
454, 457; Embree v. Kansas City Road District, 240 U. S.
242, 250.
The decisions relied upon by the Company, Norwood
v. Baker, 172 U. S. 269; Myles Salt Co. v. Iberia Drainage
District, 239 U. S. 478; Gast Realty Co. v. Schneider
Granite Co., 240 U. S. 55, are not in conflict with the
rule but plainly fall within, and are illustrations of, the
qualification of it.
An application of this rule to the case before us renders
not difficult the decision of the second assignment of
error.
The road to be improved was "a little less than three
and a half miles in length" and extended from Alma, a
considerable village, on the north, southerly to an east
and west road which had its western terminus at the City
of Van Buren, eight miles west of the junction of the two
roads. It was the principal road to and from Alma, the
travel on it being greater than on all the other roads which
served that village combined. In wet seasons the road was
practically impassable for wagons, sometimes for three
or four months together. People living south of the east
and west road, who made Van Buren their trading point
in wet weather, after the road was improved traded exclusively at Alma, it being four and a half miles nearer for
many of them. The railway of the appellee was the only

BRANSON v. BUSH.
182.

Opinion of the Court.

one at Alma, but at Van Buren there was a competing
road, with a line two hundred and fifty miles shorter than
that of the appellee to St. Louis, the chief market for the
staples of the region.
On the question of benefits which would come to the
railroad property from the construction of the road, the
appellee receiver called four witnesses, three of them
engineers and one a superintendent of the Company.
Two of these were familiar with the location of the road
and the other two testified that they knew of its location
in a general way. All four testified in general terms that
the road was not and never would be of any benefit to
the railroad. It is significant that no traffic man was
called and that no evidence was introduced showing the
extent of business done at Alma before and after the improvement of the road.
For the District, three witnesses were called, one a
doctor, one a merchant and one a long-time resident of the
village of Alma. Each of these testified that, in his
opinion, the road, by making the village of Alma more
accessible, particularly in the wet seasons of the year,
and by developing the adjacent country, would increase
the business of the railway company and would divert
business from Van Buren where there was a competing
railroad, to Alma where appellee had the only line. It was
in evidence also that after the act was passed, but before
the road was completed, a large gas producing district was
discovered not far south of the .southern terminus of the
improved road which was tributary to it.
To this must be added the obvious fact that anything
that develops the territory which a railroad serves must
necessarily be of benefit to it, and that no agency for such
development equals that of good roads.
This discussion of the record makes it clear that it is
impossible to characterize as arbitrary, capricious or
confiscatory the action of the General Assembly, in de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Counsel for Appellants.

251 U. S.

claring that the property of the railroad company within
the District would be benefited by the construction of the
contemplated road improvement, but, on the contrary, it
makes it apparent that the case is one so fully within the
general rule that the holding of the Circuit Court of
Appeals that the railroad would not be benefited by the
improvement cannot be sustained.
It results that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS dissents.

CITY OF WINCHESTER ET AL. v. WINCHESTER
WATER WORKS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN

No. 51.

DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

Argued October 24, 1919.-Decided January 5, 1920.

A city cannot regulate the rates chargeable by a water company unless
authority to do so has been plainly granted by the legislature.
P. 193.
Such authority cannot be implied from powers to grant water companies rights of way in the public streets and grounds and to supervise and control their use. P. 194.
Kentucky Statutes, ยง 3490 (8), (25), (30), (33), considered. Id.
Affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. Smith Hays, with whom Mr. J. Smith Hays, Jr.,
Mr. John M. Stevenson, Mr. James F. Winn and Mr. F. H.
Haggard were on the brief, for appellants.

