WORTH BROS. CO. v. LEDERER.
Opinion of the Court.

WORTH BROTHERS COMPANY v. LEDERER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE
FIRST DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 525.

Argued January 8, 9, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

Rough shell forgings, sold by their manufacturer to another having a
contract to deliver completed shells to the French Government, are
"parts" of shells, within the meaning of the Munitions Tax Act of
September 8, 1916, c. 463, ยง 301, 39 Stat. 780, the profits from which
are taxable under the act to the manufacturer of the forgings.
P. 509.
258 Fed. Rep. 533, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. H. Wintersteen, with whom Mr. William Wallace, Jr., was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson for respondent.
Mr. E. G. Curtis, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curie.
Mr. J. Sprigg McMahon, by leave of court, filed a brief
as amicus curice.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This writ is directed to the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming a judgment of the DistrictCourt for Lederer, to whom we shall refer as the Collector,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

in an action by petitioner to recover from him the sum of
$74,857.07 exacted as a tax under ยง 301 of the Munitions
Manufactures Tax Act of September 8, 1916, 39 Stat.
780, and paid by petitioner under protest.
A detail of the imposition of the tax and the protest
of its payment are unnecessary to give. The other facts
were stipulated and it appears from the stipulation that
during the taxable year,1916 petitioner made the steel for
and did the forging on certain shell bodies under an order
from the Midvale Steel Company, to enable the latter
company to carry out a contract which it had with the
Government of France for certain explosive shells. The
steel was made and the forging done by petitioner in accordance with specifications required by the French
Government, which specifications were attached to the
order from the Midvale Steel Company to petitioner.
Inspectors employed by the French Government inspected the work done by petitioner, testing the steel and
examining the forgings as they passed through petitioner's
hands. "Up to the time when the blooms of steel were
sliced partly through into billets, the right of inspection
was exercised by the French Inspector-irL-Chief, only
whenever he desired to exercise it." Some i'orgings were
rejected and those that were passed were so marked by the
inspector. This was done in accordance with an understanding between petitioner and the Midvale Steel Company.
The profits, upon which the tax as claimed in this case
was imposed, were derived solely from the sale of the
above mentioned forgings.
The Munitions Tax Act provides (ยง 301, c. 463, 39
Stat. 781) "that every person manufactuiing" certain
articles and "shells" "or any part of the articles mentioned . . . shall pay for each taxable year, in addition to the income tax imposed by Title I, an excise tax of
twelve and one-half, per centurn upon the entire net

WORTH BROS. CO. v. LEDERER.
507.

Opinion of the Court.

profits actually received or accrued for said year from the
sale or disposition of such articles manufactured within
the United States."
The question is the simple and direct one whether a
shell forging under the stipulation and evidence is "any
part" of a shell within the meaning of the law. The
argument of petitioner, in support of a negative answer, is
very diffuse, pressing considerations which we do not
think are relevant.
A shell is a definite article, constituted of materials of a
certain kind and quality, assembled and fitted and finished
so as to be adequate for its destructive purposes. Is not
every element (we use the word for want of a better) in the
aggregation or composition or amalgamation (whichever
it is), of a shell, a part of it? If not, what is it? And what
is the test to distinguish a part from not a part? We use
the negative as an antithetic word does not occur to us to
express that something necessary to constitute a thing is
not a part of it. Petitioner surmounts the difficulty by
contending that the law by its words "any part" of any
of the "shells," implies a substantially finished part, as
related to the whole structure and to the purpose it is
intended to subserve. "Otherwise," counsel say, "the
word [part] loses all precision, and becomes equivalent to
the words 'ingredient' or 'material composing or making
up."' And to sustain this view they take us to the dictionaries and to an enumeration of the processes to which
the material must be subjected to make a forging, and
those afterwards to prepare it for a shell. In this enumeration letters of the alphabet are used of which "A, B, C
and H represent stages of development of the material
prior to delivery" to the Midvale Company, and "D, E,
F, G, I and K represent stages of development by Midvale
after delivery to it." It is quite obvious of course, as
counsel declare, that the forgings were "not shells; since a
shell is a composite structure of several parts," But

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

counsel go farther and say that the forgings were "not
parts of shells in any practical or legal sense, because their
development was so far short-80%-of the point where
they could be related to or "combined with any other
component of the shell structure, that they could not
satisfy any fair meaning of the shell body unit, as entering
into the composite shell as a whole." We give counsel's
words because we fear that by paraphrasing them we
might not correctly represent their meaning and contention.
We reject the contention. Congress did not intend to
subject its legislation to such artificialities and make it
depend upon distinctions so refined as to make a part of a
shell not the taxable "part" of the law. Besides petitioner
understates its work. It did not deliver raw material to
the Midvale Company. Certain processes had been performed on the material giving it a shape adapted to its
destination. It was made cylindrical, hollow, with one end
closed. It was rough, it is true, but an advance upon the
raw material.
The progressive processes need not be enumerated. The
lower courts have enumerated them, and the Court of
Appeals describing them said that the "steps" six in all,
were "progressive advances toward the chemical constituents, the shape, and the dimension required by, and
essential to, the manufacture of shells in compliance with
the contract." And the court distinguished the effect of
the steps. With the fourth, it was said, the inspection by
the French Government began; the fifth tock the fluid
metal (the result of the second step) from the possibility
of use for general commercial purposes and by a forging
process restricted the steel to the field of use for shells.
By the sixth step this forging "was drawn to a length,
and to an inside and outside diameter, which enabled the
Midvale Steel Company to thereafter carry forward its
twenty-nine progressive steps, which, with the six" of

FORGED STEEL WHEEL CO. v. LEWELLYN.

511

Counsel for Parties.

507.

to complete the
petitioner "were required . .
manufactured shell of the contract."
. "Manifestly," as counsel for the Collector says, "the
shell body was not completely manufactured by either of
the companies which were engaged in its production"
but "by the two acting together." And each therefore is
liable for the profit it made, and judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

and MR.

JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

dissent.

FORGED STEEL WHEEL COMPANY v. LEWELLYN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE
FOR THE TWENTY-THIRD DISTRICT OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 526.

Argued January 8, 9, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

A rough shell forging is a "part" of a shell in the sense of the Munitions Tax Act. P. 512. Worth Bros. Co. v. Lederer, ante, 507; and
Carbon Steel Co. v. Lewellyn, ante, 501, followed.
258 Fed. Rep. 533, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. George B. Gordon and Mr. George Sutherland, with
whom Mr: William Watson Smith, Mr. James McKirdy
and Mr. S. G. Nolin were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Friersonfor respondent.

