UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
407.

Syllabus.

tion possessed, for the purpose of reasonably regulating
the performance of duties by law imposed, serves, in the
last analysis, to dispose of the arguments concerning the
dangers Of abuse of power which may result from a failure
to uphold the existence of the discretion which the court
below deemed it possessed and upon which its action was
based.
As we have exercised jurisdiction to review on the
writ of error, the prayer of the United States for the granting of a rule to show cause why mandamus and prohibition
should not issue if jurisdiction of the writ of error was not
maintained, has nothing now to rest upon and it is denied.
It further follows from what we have said on the merits
that the judgment below must be and it is
Reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.

UNITED

STATES v. UNITED STATES STEEL
CORPORATION ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 6. Argued March 9, 12-14, 1917; restored to docket for reargument
May 21, 1917; reargued October 7-10, 1919.-Decided March 1, 1920.
That an industrial combination is formed with the expectation of
achieving a monopoly is not enough to make it a monopoly within
the meaning of the Anti-Trust Act. P. 444.
Held, that the power'attained by the United States Steel Corporation,
much greater than that of any one competitor, but not greater than
that possessed by them all, did not constitute it a monopoly. Id.
The fact that a corporation, alleged to be-an illegal combination, during
a long period after its formation persuaded and joined with its com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

petitors in efforts, at times successful and at times not, to fix and
maintain prices in violation of the Anti-Trust Act, does not warrant
present relief against it, if the illegal practices were transient in purpose and effect, were abandoned before the suit was begun because of
their futility and not for fear of prosecution, and have not since been
resumed; and if no intention to resume them or dangerous probability
of their resumption is shown by the evidence. Pp. 444 et seq.
Purpose and effect of the Steel Corporation's acquisition of control of
the Tennessee Coal & Iron Company, considered, in the light of
President Roosevelt's prior approval of the transaction and his
testimony concerning it. P. 446.
Upon the question whether the power possessed by the Steel Corporation operated per se as an illegal restraint, held that testimony of its
officers, its competitors, and hundreds of its customers, to the effect
that competition was not restrained and that prices varied or remained constant according to natural conditions, must be accepted
as clearly outweighing a generalization advanced by government
experts that constancy of prices during certain periods evinced an
artificial interference. P. 447.
An. industrial combination, short of a monopoly, is not objectionable
under the act merely because of its size-its capital and power of
production-or merely because of a power to restrain competition,
if not exerted. Pp. 447, 450 et seq.
The act prohibits overt acts, and trusts to their repression and punishment. P. 451.
The fact that competitors of a combination voluntarily follow its
prices does not establish an unlawful restraint; the act does not compel competition. Pp. 449-451.
In commanding the courts to "prevent and restrain violations" of it,
the Anti-Trust Law has regard to conditions as they may exist when
relief is invoked and to the usual powers of a court of equity to adapt
its remedies to those conditions. P. 452.
The act does not expect the courts to enforce abstractions to the subversion of its own purposes, but leaves to them to determine, in each
instance, the relief appropriate for the execution of its policy. Id.
Therefore, admitting that the Steel Corporation was in origin a combination of competing companies actuated by an unlawful purpose,
yet it being proved and found in this case that that purpose, and
illegal practices which followed the combination, were abandoned as
.futile months before this suit was begun, and that the combination,
viewed as of today, is not in itself or by its conduct offensive to the
statute, the policy of the statute, which respects the public interest

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

Argument for the United States.

as paramount, would be defeated rather than subserved were the
court, for retrospective reasons merely, to destroy the combination,
or separate some of its subsidiaries as suggested, and thereby
destroy or impair the investments invited of the public, and the
foreign trade and other large developments made during the ten
years that intervened before the Government began any legal attack. Pp. 452 et seq. Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S.
1; and United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106, distinguished.
No feasible way of dissolving the combination and yet protecting its
foreign trade, under the Webb Act, c. 50, § 2, 40 Stat. 516, or otherwise, has been suggested. P. 453.
223 Fed. Rep. 55, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant to the Attorney General Ames and Mr.
Henry E. Colton, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, for the United States :'
In comprehensive terms the substance of the charge is:
(1) That between 1898 and 1900 combinations were
formed in various branches of the iron and steel trade, not
as an incident of normal growth, but with the purpose and
effect of unduly restricting competition, and that they
still exist, contrary to the Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890.
(2) That in 1901, by means of a holding company, these
several illegal combinations, each dominant in its respective field, and other powerful units, were all brought
together in one super-combination of overwhelming power,
which, augmented by further acquisitions, still exists,
unduly restricting competition in the iron and steel trade
as a whole and in practically every important branch
thereof, contrary to the same act of Congress.
1At the former hearing the case was argued by Mr. Solicitor General
Davis, Mr. Assistant to the Attorney General Todd and Mr. Henry E.
Colton, Special Assistant to the Attorney General. Mr. Attorney General
Gregory and Mr. Robert Szold also were on the brief, from which the
argument is abstracted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for the United States.

251 U. S.

The several combinations formed during the period
1898-1900 greatly increased prices in almost every instance, especially the combinations affecting the lighter
finished products, such as tubes, wire nails, tin plates, etc.
Prices of pig iron, semi-finished products and rails also
were increased. But notwithstanding the concentration
of control in particular lines resulting from these combinations, competition was still able to make itself felt, taking
'the industry as a whole, and as the year 1900 drew to a
close was threatening to become very active, and, with the
revival of active competition, prices, which had been
enormously increased, underwent substantial declines.
Then was formed the present corporation-a holding
company, which' controls the important acts and policies of the constituent combinations, and, among other
things, generally determines the prices which they may
charge for their finished products. As the proposal
for the super-combination began to take form, prices,
which had receded with the revival of competition in
the latter half of 1900, began to rise again. The upward movement became marked as the organization of
the combination was perfected. While some have since
fallen, these prices have nevertheless been maintained
by the combination at a substantially higher level
than prevailed during competitive periods prior to its
formation.
Except for the internal alterations and further acquisitions, which increased the control, the several combinations above described and the super-combination in which
they were all united have continued down to the present
time without change of substance. Their proportion of
the trade, whilst not quite so great as at first, is still overwhelmingly preponderant.
Congress was moved to pass the Anti-Trust Act by two
main considerations: (1) The desire to preserve the
competitve system of industry. (2) The conviction that

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

Argument for the United States.

that system was threatened by the undue concentration
of commercial power resulting chiefly from the unrestricted exercise of the right of combination.
Every combination which by its necessary effect or
because of the character of the means employed threatens
the normal operation of the law of competition, in other
words, unduly restricts competition, is therefore within
the purview of the act.
It was not intended, however, to set a limit to the enlargement of a business by normal growth, the competitive
system being in no danger from that quarter.
The purpose of the parties is important in determining
the question of normal growth, but, thai out of the way,
it is of no further consequence where the necessary effect
of the combination is unduly to restrict competition.
Except as throwing light on the purpose of the parties,
it is immaterial how the combination is created, whether
through simple agreement, through the old form of trust,
through a holding company, or through the actual purchase and consolidation of plants.
Competition may be unduly restricted through voluntary combinations of competitive traders and trade units
no less than by combinations to exclude one or more such
from their right to trade.
Whether restriction of competition through voluntary
combinations is undue depends primarily upon the extent
of the restriction. Without attempting to draw the exact
line, the restriction is certainly undue where the combination embraces units which together occupy a preponderant position in a given industry.
What constitutes a preponderant position must be
determined in the light of conditions in the particular
branch of trade affected. The principal factors to be
considered are (1) the portion of the trade engrossed by
the combination as compared with the portion possessed
by each of its competitors as well as with the whole, and

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for the United States.

251 U. S.

(2) the extent of the control, if any, acquired by the combination over raw materials or over the agencies of
transportation and of distribution or over the reserve
supply where the article of trade is one the supply of which
is limited by nature.
At the time they were combined under the control of
the United States Steel Corporation the American Steel &
Wire Company, the American Tin Plate Company, the
American Sheet Steel Company, the American Steel Hoop
Company, the National Tube Company and the American
Bridge Company were severally combinations in restraint
of trade, each being a combination of formerly competitive units together occupying an overwhelmingly preponderant position in a distinct branch of the iron and
steel trade and each having been organized for the purpose
of suppressing competition and increasing prices.
It has never been doubted that combinations of this
type, embracing a dominant proportion of those engaged
in a particular industry and formed for the express purpose
of suppressing competition between them, are combinations in restraint of trade. Addyston Pipe Co. v. United
States, 175 U. S. 211; Swift & Co. v. United States, 196
U. S. 375, 394; Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co.,
220 U. S. 273, 408. Nor is it material, their purpose and
effect being what they were, that the combinations here
assailed were created in corporate form instead of by
loose agreement. United States v. American Tobacco Co.,
221 U. S. 106, 176, 181. Indeed, where, as here, corporations simply exchange their plants and businesses for stock
in a consolidated corporation, the resulting combination
is in no respect different in principle from a combination in
the form of trust which the statute specifically prohibits.
Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197, 326,
327; United States v. Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324, 352-363;
s. c. 183 Fed. Rep. 427, 470; Patterson v. United States,
222 Fed. Rep. 599, 619, 620; Noyes, Intercorporate Rela-

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

Argument for the United States.

tions, § 354; Eddy, Combinations, § 622. Wherefore we
submit that the illegality of these combinations is not
merely debatable, as the defendants themselves admit as
to some, but is conclusive as to all. They were still occupying the illegal position thus acquired in various branches
of the steel trade when united under the control of the
United States Steel Corporation in 1901.
The Steel Corporation is a combination in restraint of
trade, because it is not the result of natural trade growth
but is a mere instrumentality for combining competing
corporations which together occupy an overwhelmingly
preponderant position in trade and commerce in iron and
steel products generally. The group of independent
plants and businesses combined under one control through
the corporation included the largest and most powerful
competitors in practically every branch of the iron and
steel industry in rails; plates; structural shapes; wire rods
and wire products; hoops, bands, and cotton ties; skelp;
wrought pipe and tubular goods; seamless tubes; bars;
billets and sheet bars. And not only were the competitors
united under the control of the Corporation the largest
and most powerful units in practically every branch of the
iron and steel industry, but generally speaking they were
splendidly grounded as regards the production of the
basic products-ore, pig iron, ingots. This is sustained
by the findings of Woolley and Hunt, JJ., in the court
below and by the investigation made by the Bureau of
Corporations.
The preponderant position and the dominance of this
combination is manifested by its capital as compared with
that of competitors; its proportion of the total production;
its proportion of the total production as compared with
that of each of its principal competitors; its proportion of
ore reserves; its control over transportation of ore; its
effect upon prices; concerted maintenance of prices under
its leadership; and opinion evidence as to its power.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for the United States.

251 U. S.

Whilst in our view of the law a combination of able
competitors occupying an overwhelmingly preponderant
position in a given trade, such as the combination embodied in the Corporation, unduly restricts competition
by its necessary effect, and therefore is unlawful regardless of purpose, nevertheless it is appropriate to show a
wrongful purpose as a matter of aggravation. It is elementary, of course, that the purposes of illegal combinations are seldom capable of proof by direct testimony, but
must be inferred from circumstances. Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers' Assn. v. United States, 234 U. S. 600,
612; Reilley v. United States, 106 Fed. Rep. 896; United
States v. Sacia, 2 Fed. Rep. 754, 757; Regina v. Murphy,
8 C. & P. 397, 404. The considerations going to show that
the controlling purpose of this super-combination was not
the legitimate development of trade, but suppression of
competition and exploitation of the public, are: the form of
the combination--a holding company not itself engaged in
trade at all; the union of so many competitors controlling
so large a proportion of the trade; the general competitive
situation, falling prices, etc., immediately before the
formation of the combination; increase in prices immediately following formation of the combination; gross
overcapitalization of the combination in anticipation of
excessive profits-; enormous promoters' profits; cancellation by the combination of contracts for extensions, etc.,
previously entered into by constituent companies; and
subsequent acquisitions. (See the findings of Woolley and
Hunt, JJ., and of the Bureau of Corporations.)
We are dealing here with a combination of competitors
in the truest sense and not with the mere purchase by one
competitor of the business of another as an incident of
normal development. The distinction between a mere
purchase of a competing business and a combination of
competing businesses clothed in the form of purchases is
sharply drawn in Shawnee Compress Co. v. Anderson, 209

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

425

Argument for 'lte United States.

U. S. 423. See Noyes, Intercorporate Relations, § 354.
If the vast aggregation of competing businesses here involved occupying an overwhelmingly preponderant position in practically every branch of the iron and steel industry had been combined by executory agreement or in
the old form of trust there would be none to dispute the
illegality of the transaction. The legal situation is not
changed by substituting a holding company as the instrument of combination. The vesting in such a company
of the capital stocks of a group of able competitors for the
purpose of centralizing control is no more lawful, is no
more a normal method of business development, than the
similar centralization of control in common trustees under
the old form of trust. In such case, indeed, the holding
company is but the old trust in corporate form. Northtern
Securities Co. v. United States, supra; Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 221 U. S. 1; Temple Iron Co. v. United
States, 226 U. S. 324; s. c. 183 Fed. Rep. 427. It is
literally a case, therefore, of the stockholders of a group of
competing corporations transferring the control of each
into the hands of a committee of trustees-a form of
combination in restraint of trade which has ever been regarded as peculiarly obnoxious. If competitors controlling half the trade not alone in one product or in two but
--in an entire series of products constituting one of the
grand divisions of industry may thus combine through a
holding company, to what lengths can the process go
without offending the law? If one-half of the steel industry may be thus combined through one holding company,
certainly those controlling the other half would have the
right to combine through another holding company. And
of course if it be lawful to centralize control of the steel
industry in two holding companies it would be equally
lawful to centralize control of every other industry in two
holding companies. Such undue concentration of control
over industry was the very evil which the act was in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for the United States.

251 U. S.,

tended to prevent. United States v. Reading Co., 226
Fed. Rep. 229, 272.
The Corporation is also an instrumentality for uniting
and enlarging the power of a group of combinations of
competitive units in particular branches of the iron and
steel trade, each in and of itself unlawful. There is no
likeness between this case and United States v. Winslow,
227 U. S. 202, 217. This case presents a parallel to the
American Tobacco Case, supra,where there was a combination in restraint of trade not in cigarettes alone, nor in
smoking tobacco alone, nor in chewing tobacco alone, but
in the whole tobacco industry.
This is not a case where the purpose was "integration."
Integration consists in combining supplementary, noncompetitive trade units. An illustrative case is United
States v. Winslow, supra. If, therefore, we were successful
in showing that the corporations combined in this case
through the holding company are either competitors themselves or illegal combinations of competitive businesses,
the idea of integration is at once excluded. You can not
centralize control of an entire industry by first separately
combining competitors in the various branches thereof and
then uniting them in one super-combination and hope to
escape the prohibitions of the law by calling what was done
"integration."
Moreover, the units combined in 1901
through the Corporation were already, for the most part,
highly integrated. No one, of course, denies the advantage of concentrating under one management the
various stages of steel manufacture from the ore mine to
the finishing mill. This can be done, however, and can be
best done, just as economical size can be attained, without
setting up in every branch of trade a combination of
competitors with power to exercise substantial dominance
over the rest.
The contention that a combination of such size and
power was a necessary means to attain efficiency and to

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

Argument for the United States.

promote foreign trade is irrelevant in law. It is but another way of saying that good intentions can save the
combination from illegality. Thomsen v. Cayser, 243
U. S. 66; United States v. Trans-Missouri Freight Assn.,
166 U. S. 290, 341; Addyston Pipe Co. v. United States, 175
U. S. 211, 234, 243; Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S.
375, 396. The intent to, violate the law implied from doing
what the law prohibits renders immaterial every other
intent, purpose, or motive. Bishop, New Criminal. Law,
§ 343; Holmes, The Common Law, p. 52. Applying this
principle, this court from the very beginning has held that
a contract or combination by its own "inherent nature or
effect," without more may "restrain trade within the
purview of the statute." Any other construction would
require courts to decide not only whether a given combination prevents the existence of effective competition or
constitutes a virtual monopoly, but whether in their
opinion monopoly would not be, on the whole, a better
policy than competition-i. e., would compel them to act
on frankly legislative grounds. Park & Sons Co. v.
Hartman, 153 Fed. Rep. 24, 46. Congress rightly believed
that the advantages of large business units, in so far as
they are real and substantial, would inevitably assert
themselves by normal growth. It closed the short cut to
those advantages-monopolistic combination-because
danger lies that way. "If there is evil in this it is accepted as less than that which may result from the unification of interest, and the power such unification gives."
National Cotton Oil Co. v. Texas, 197 U. S. 115, 129.
"Competition is worth more to society than it costs."
Vegelahn v. Guntner, 167 Massachusetts, 92, 106. Furthermore, even if it would have been lawful for the many
independent businesses combined through this holding
company to unite to some extent to develop' foreign
trade-by joint selling agencies, for example-that can
not justify the complete and permanent suppression of

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Arguiment for the United States.

251 U. S.

competition between them in domestic trade. United
States v. Corn Products Refining Co., 234 Fed. Rep. 964,
1016; United States v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 226 U. S.
61, 93.
The contention that such was the purpose is also unfounded in fact.
As for the contention that competition has increased
while the combination's proportion of the trade has decreased, it is true that as. regards the proportion of the
trade in steel products possessed by the combination
there has been some decline from the highwater mark
reached shortly after its formation, but there has been no
such decline as to curtail the power of the combination.
It is rather the usual thing in such cases for the combination to be able to show some relative decline in its
proportion of the trade. It was so held with the Standard
Oil Company and with the American Tobacco Company.
In fact, it is so uniformly the case as to excite the suspicion
that combinations of this character, having found they
can dominate the trade with a smaller proportion of it
than they started with, voluntarily yield a part in the
belief that they thereby put themselves in a better position to face the law. But be this as it may, where, as here,
the decline still leaves the combination in an overwhelmingly preponderant position, it is of no. legal consequence
whatever. In such a case the original vice persists and the
combination is a "continually operating force," restraining trade within the meaning of the first section of the act,
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, supra; United States v.
Union Pacific R. R. Co., 226 U. S. 61, 96; United States v.
Kissel, 218 U. S. 601; and a "perennial violation of the
second section" prohibiting monopoly, Standard Oil Co.
v. United States, supra, 74; Patterson v. United States, 222
Fed. Rep. 599, 625; United States v. Corn Products Refining Co., 234 Fed. Rep. 964, 1018.
The present bill charges a combination to suppress

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

Argument for the United States.

competition between the parties to the combination themselves. In such a case the only question is-whether the
combination embraces competitors in sufficient number
and of sufficient importance to make the resulting restriction of competition a substantial or undue restriction.
Whether such a combination is also attempting to hinder
the competition of those outside the combination is of no
weight except as a matter of aggravation.
The contention that the combination is not unlawful
because its power though great is yet not great enough to
enable it alone to fix and maintain prices would require a
combination of competitors to amount to a monopoly to
fall within the prohibition. This theory was rejected by
this court in the first case under the Anti-Trust Act which
came before it. United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156
U. S. 1, 16. To the same effect is the language of Mr. Justice Day, then a circuit judge, in Chesapeake & Ohio Fuel
Co. v. United States, 115 Fed. Rep. 610, 624.
Furthermore, neither the circumstance that the Corporation combined with competitors to maintain the higher
prices established by the combinations whose stocks it
acquired, nor that in ten years while increasing its trade
enormously its relative proportion suffered a small declinfe, justifies the inference that the Corporation could
not have maintained the higher prices by the exertion of
its own power alone. It would be a strange result if the
combination of competitors embodied in the Corporation
should escape condemnation because of their illegal
conduct in agreeing upon prices with outside manufacturers.
The contention that the case must fail because the
combinations have not ,increased prices, or limited production, or degraded the quality of product, or decreased
wages, or decreased the price of raw materials, or oppressed
competitors, loses sight of the broader policy of the act,
.which was, not to wait until the evils enumerated are

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Steel Corporation et al.

251 U. S.

already upon us, but to prevent their occurrence by striking at their underlying cause--undue concentration of
commercial power through the process of combination.
The test of the legality of a combination, therefore, is not
its present effect upon prices, wages, etc., nor its present
conduct toward the remaining competitors, but its effect
upon competition. If its effect is unduly to restrict competition, then it is immaterial that for the time being the
combination may exercise its power benevolently. This
defense of good conduct has been interposed in many
cases of this character, and as many times rejected. Nor is
forbearance by a combination from the exercise of its
power to drive the remaining competitors from the field,
or to prevent new ones from entering, on any different
footing from good conduct of any other sort. The cases
make no such distinction. Obviously, where a combination takes in so large a proportion of the colhpetitors or
competitive units that effective competition no longer
exists, it can be no defense to say that the combination is
doing nothing to prevent the restoration of competitive
conditions.
This contention is based on a construction of the law
impracticable in execution.
Mr. Richard V. Liridabury, Mr. David A. Reed and
Mr. Cordenio A. Severance, with whom Mr. Raynal C.
Bolling was on the brief, for United States Steel Corporation et al., appellees, cited and discussed the following,
as revealing what the Anti-Trust Act means by "restraint
of trade": Senator Hoar, Autobiography of Seventy
Years, vol. II, p. 364; United States v. Du Pont De Nemours & Co., 188 Fed. Rep. 127, 150; United States v.
Trans-Missouri Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290; Gibbs v.
Baltimore Gas Co., 130 U. S. 396, 408; Northern Securities
Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197, 337, 361; Standard
Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 58, 60, 61; United States

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
.417.

Argument for Steel Corporation et al.

v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106, 179; United States
v. Terminal Railroad Assn., 224 U. S. 383, 394; Nash v.
United States, 229 U. S. 373, 376.
Whether, or to what extent, the Standard Oil and
Tobacco Cases modify the rule laid down by Mr. Justice
Peckham in the Freight Association Case as applicable to'
public service corporations is not of account in the present
case. That they do make a distinction between restraint
of competition and restraint of trade in the case of private
trading and manufacturing companies, and do hold that
as to such companies the restraint of competition in order
to amount to restraint of trade must be undue or unreasonable, is entirely clear, and is recognized in the subsequent cases. These cases also hold, as pointed out by
Judge Lanning in the Du Pont Case, that whether the
restraint of competition in the case of such companies
amounts to restraint of tiade must be determined upon
the facts and circumstances of each particular case.
Applying these principles, the direct and necessary
effect of the organization of the Steel Corporation was
neither to restrain trade nor create a monopoly, viewed
either from the standpoint of competition suppressed or
from that of the extent of control acquired over production or raw materials. Swift & Co. v. United States, 196
U. S. 375; United States v. StandardOil Co., 173 Fed. Rep.
177, 183; United States v. American Tobacco Co., 164
Fed. Rep. 700, 719; 221 U. S. 157, 182; United States v.
Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324, 370.
Notwithstanding the foregoing cases, the Government
insists that, as a matter of law, the suppression of competition is undue whenever the combination controls
units which together occupy a preponderant position in a
given industry, and this without regard to the intentions
of those who form it or the after conduct of the combination. We submit that no such test is warranted either by
the language of the Anti-Trust Act or by the decisions of

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Steel Corporation et al.

251 U. S.

this court. Whether restraint is unreasonable, and
therefore undue, is declared in United States v. Terminal
Railroad Assn., supra, to depend upon three things:
(1) the extent of such control; (2) the method by which
such control was brought about; and (3) the manner in
which such control has been exercised. This is but a
formulation of the rule laid down in the Tobacco Case.
But we submit that a priori reasoning as to the direct or
necessary effect of the organization of the Steel Corporation or as to the result produced by its preponderant
,position in the industry, if it has such a position,' is uncalled for in the present case. When the evidence in the
case was closed, thirteen years of the active life of the
Corporation had passed. If restraint of trade or monopoly
necessarily resulted from its formation or from its socalled preponderant position in the industry, evidence of
such restraint or monopoly would appear somewhere in
its history; and if such evidence does not appear, it is
reasonably safe to conclude that no such result inhered in
its organization or position. That the organization did
not so result at any time or as to any article of steel
production, is, we submit, conclusively shown by the
testimony in the case, as pointed out in both opinions of
the court below. And not only is this shown by the testimony, but it is also shown that the Corporation never acquired the power either to monopolize or to restrain trade.
And this too was found by all the judges of the court below.
No intent to monopolize or to restrain trade is shown
by the circumstances which led up to and surrounded the
organization of the Corporation. The organization was
but a natural and normal development from existing
trade and manufacturing conditions and was only notable
because of the largeness of the conception which underlay
it and the courage exhibited in undertaking to carry it
out. But ability to think large and courage to execute
the thought are not condemned by the law. Indeed, the

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

Argument for Steel Corporation et al.

future prosperity of our country must depend in large
measure upon the encouragement given to these attributes of the American business man.
Nor is an intent to monopolize or restrain trade evinced
by the after-conduct of the Corporation. Throughout its
whole career the Corporation has pursued the objects
declared by its founders at the time of its formation, decreasing the cost of production, increasing wages, decreasing prices, and greatly extending trade in steel
products both at home and abroad. Its treatment of
both competitors and consumers has been fair and just;
it has neither attempted to oppress the one nor to coerce
the other. The few plants which it has purchased were
offered to it, and with a single exception they were purchased only because they were needed in the development
of the Corporation's bfsiness. That exception was the
plant of the Tennessee Company, and this was purchased
with the approval of the Government for the purpose of
preventing the spread of a dangerous financial panic.
Instead of promoting pools and combinations, the Corporation destroyed them as early as 1904. Although the
manufacturers met together from time to time after the
breaking up of the pools, they went no further at their
meetings than to mutually exchange information and
make declarations of purpose which the petition admits
they had a lawful right to do. The Gary dinner movement amounted to nothing more than an endeavor to
prevent reckless price-cutting and general demoralization
at a time of great industrial peril, and this was sought to
be accomplished simply by an appeal to reason and the
establishment of a relation of mutual respect and confidence, by which it was hoped to secure open and fair
dealing and prevent the misunderstandings out of which
nearly all the trade wars of the past had grown. Instead
of monopolizing the manufacture of steel, the Corporation's percentage of the country's production has steadily

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Steel Corporation et al.

251 U. S.

decreased; instead of monopolizing the supply of ore, the
Corporation has confined its purchases to two or three
localities, and in the locality where its holdings are largest
it has relatively less than many of its competitors and less
than its own experts and the experts of its competitors
testify that it ought to have. We respectfully submit that
by this record the Corporation has proved the bona fides
of the claim made for it at the time of its organization,
that its purpose was the development of a great business
along legitimate and permissible lines, and not monopoly
or restraint of trade. If, however, the circumstances
surrounding the organization left the matter of intent in
doubt to be established by the after-conduct of the parties, we now have such after-conduct extending over the
long period of thirteen years, and we submit that it completely rebuts any presumption (if any there was) of
intent to restrain trade or to acquire a monopoly, and as
completely establishes the contrary intent.
Whatever, therefore, may have been the purpose or
immediate effect of the organization of the Steel Corporation, it goes for nothing unless it be found that at the
time the petition was filed the Corporation was offending
or threatening to offend against the Anti-Trust Act. This
results from the fact that the action is brought under the
third section of that act which authorizes the Attorney
General to institute proceedings in equity to prevent or
restrain violations of the act. The appeal is to the injunctive power of the court which is never exercised to redress
alleged wrongs which have been committed already, but
only to restrain those which are still existing or are threatened. High on Injunctions, § 23; Pomeroy's Equitable
Remedies, vol. I, § 262.
The Corporation had no monopoly and was not restraining trade when the petition was filed, nor was it
threatening to acquire a monopoly or to restrain trade.
It has not the power to do either,

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

Argument for Steel Corporation et al.

We insist that the acquisition of a preponderant position
in a trade or manufacture (whether this means size or
power) without unlawful intent and without excluding
practices, does not constitute restraint of trade or monopoly either at common law or under the Federal Anti-Trust
Act when no actual monopoly or actual restraint of trade
results therefrom. How could it? Size in itself is nothing
as we have already shown. And power to do wrong cannot be confounded with wrongdoing itself without leading
to hopeless confusion. We are dealing with a criminal
statute. If the acquisition of power to violate a statute is
the equivalent of its violation, then all men are guilty, for
all have acquired the power to violate not one but many
statutes. In the opinions in some of the railroad cases
(United States v. Trans-MissouriFreight Assn., 166 U. S.
290, 334; Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193
U. S. 197, 373; United States v. Union Pacific R. R. Co.,
226 U. S. 61, 88) are to be found expressions to the effect
that it is the scope of combinations of the kind there under
consideration and the power to suppress competition and
create monopoly which results therefrom that determines
the applicability of the Anti-Trust Act. In those cases,
however, the corporations combining were under a duty
to compete, and any substantial suppression of competition between them was, therefore, illegal-the scope of the
combinations (i. e., what they embraced) alone determining their illegality. No such rule has ever been applied to private trading or manufacturing companies, and
this for the obvious reason that such companies are under
no duty to compete. Meredith v. N. J. Zinc & Iron Co.,
55 N. J. Eq. 212, 221. In the Tobacco Case the combination was condemned because the court thought the conclusion of wrongful purposes and illegal combination was
overwhelmingly established by the circumstances surrounding the organization and the after-conduct of the
company, showing an ever present in.tent to drive compet-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

itors out of the field and to monopolize the tobacco trade.
Nothing, we submit, could be more unreasonable than to
condemn every corporation, without regard to its purposes or practices, which happens to exceed in size or
trade power any other competitor in the field. A rule
which would lead to that result, instead of protecting
commerce-which was the object of the Anti-Trust Actwould tend to throttle and destroy it by driving or keeping out of the competitive field all but the incompetents
and inefficients.
.InternationalHarvester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199,
was decided under the Missouri statute which prohibited
any combination that lessened or tended to lessen competition.
The elimination of competition between the units combined by the Steel Corporation did not amount to an
undue restriction of competition in the steel trade and so
produce a restraint thereof.
Mr. George Welwood Murray for John D. Rockefeller
and John D. Rockefeller, Jr., appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Suit against the Steel Corporation and certain other
companies which it directs and controls by reason of the
ownership of their stock, it and they being separately and
collectively charged as violators of the Sherman AntiTrust Act.
It is prayed that it and they be dissolved because engaged in illegal restraint of trade and the exercise of
monopoly.
Special charges of illegality and monopoly are made and
special redresses and remedies are prayed, among others,
that there be a prohibition of stock ownership and exer-

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

437

Opinion of the Court.

cise of rights under such ownership, and that there shall be
such orders and distribution of the stock and other properties as shall be in accordance with equity and good
conscience and "shall effectuate the purpose of the AntiTrust Act." General relief is also prayed.
The Steel Corporation is a holding company only; the
other companies are the operating ones, manufacturers in
the iron and steel industry, twelve in number. There are,
besides, other corporations and individuals more or less connected with the activities of the other defendants that are
alleged to be instruments or accomplices in their activities
and offendings; and that these activities and offendings
(speaking in general terms) extend from 1901 to 1911,
when the bill was filed, and have illustrative periods of
significant and demonstrated illegality.
Issue is taken upon all these charges, and we see at a
glance what detail of circumstances may be demanded,
and we may find ourselves puzzled to compress them into
an opinion that will not be of fatiguing prolixity.
The case was heard in the District Court by four
judges. They agreed that the bill should be dismissed;
they disagreed as to the reasons for it. 223 Fed. Rep. 55.
One opinion (written by Judge Buffington and concurred
in 'by Judge McPherson) expressed the view that the
Steel Corporation was not formed with the intention or
purpose to monopolize or restrain trade, and did not have
the motive or effect "to prejudice the public interest by
unduly restricting competition or unduly obstructing the
course of trade." The corporation, in the view of the
opinion, was an evolution, a natural consummation of the
tendencies of' the industry on account of changing conditions, practically a compulsion from "the metallurgical
method of making steel and the physical method of
handling it," this method, and the conditions consequent
upon it, tending to combinations of capital and energies
rather than diffusion in independent action. And the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

concentration of powers (we are still representing the
opinion) was only such as was deemed necessary, and
immediately manifested itself in improved methods and
products and in an increase of domestic and foreign trade.
Indeed an important purpose of the organization of the
corporation was the building up of the export trade in
steel and iron which at that time was sporadic, the mere
dumping of the products upon foreign markets.
Not monopoly, therefore, was the purpose of the
organization of the corporation but concentration of
efforts with resultant economies and benefits.
The tendency of the industry and the purpose of the
corporation in yielding to it were expressed in comprehensive condensation by the word "integration," which
signifies continuity in the processes of the industry from
ore mines to the finished product.
All considerations deemed pertinent were expressed and
their influence was attempted to be assigned and, while.
conceding that the Steel Corporation, after its formation
in times of financial disturbance, entered into informal
agreements or understandings with its competitors to
maintain prices, they terminated with their occasions,
and, as they had ceased to exist, the court was not justified in dissolving the corporation.
The other opinion (by Judge Woolley and concurred in
by Judge Hunt, 223 Fed. Rep. 161) was in some particulars, in antithesis to Judge Buffington's. The view was
expressed that neither the Steel Corporation nor the preceding combinations, which were in a sense its antetypes,
had the justification of industrial conditions, nor were
they or it impelled by the necessity for integration, or
compelled to unite in comprehensive enterprise because
such had become a condition of success under the new
order of things. On the contrary, that the organizers of
the corporation and the preceding companies had illegal
purpose from the very beginning, and the corporation

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

439

Opinion of the Court.

became "a combination of combinations, by which,
directly or indirectly, approximately 180 independent concerns were brought under one business control," which,
measured by the amount of production, extended to 80%
or 90% of the entire output of the country, and that its
purpose was to secure great profits which were thought
possible in the light of the history of its constituent combinations, and to accomplish permanently what those combinations had demonstrated could be accomplished
temporarily, and thereby monopolize and restrain trade.'
As bearing upon the power obtained and what the Corporation did
we give other citations from Judge Woolley's opinion as follows:
"The ore reserves acquired by the corporation at and subsequent to
its organization, the relation which such reserves bear to ore bodies then
existing and subsequently discovered, and their bearing upon the question of monopoly of raw materials, are matters which have been discussed in the preceding opinion, and with the reasoning as well as with
the conclusion that the corporation has not a monopoly of the raw
materials of the steel industry, I am in entire accord."
"Further inquiring whether the corporation inherently possesses
monopolistic power attention is next given to its proportion of the
manufacture and sale of finished iron and steel products of the industry.
Upon this subject there is a great volume of testimony, a detailed consideration of which in an opinion would be quite inexcusable. As a last
analysis of this testimony, it is sufficient to say it shows that, large as
was the corporation, and substantial as was its proportion of the business of the industry, the corporation was not able in the first ten years
of its history to maintain its position in the increase of trade. During
that period, its proportion of the domestic business decreased from
50.1 per cent. to 40.9 per cent. and its increase of business during that
period was but 40.6 per cent. of its original volume. Its increase of
business, measured by percentage, was exceeded by eight of its competitors, whose increase of business, likewise measured by percentage,
ranged from 63 to 3779. This disparity in the increase of production
indicates that the power of the corporation is not commensurate with
its size, and that the size and the consequent power of the corporation
are not sufficient to retard prosperous growth of efficient competitors.
"'From the vast amount of testimony, it is conclusively shown that
the Steel Corporation did not attempt to exert a power, if such it

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

The organizers, however (we are still representing the
opinion), underestimated the opposing conditions and at
the very beginning the Corporation instead of relying
upon its own power sought and obtained the assistance and
the co6peration of its competitors (the independent companies). In other words the view was expressed that the
testimony did "not show that the corporation in and of
itself ever possessed or exerted sufficient power when acting alone to control prices of the products of the industry."
Its power was efficient only when in co6peration with its
competitors, and hence it concerted with them in the
expedients of pools, associations, trade meetings, and
finally in a system of dinners inaugurated in 1907 by the
president of the company, E. H. Gary, and called "the
Gary Dinners." The dinners were congregations of producers and "were nothing but trade meetings," successors
of the other means of associated action and control
through such action. They were instituted first in"stress
of panic," but, their potency being demonstrated, they
were afterwards called to control prices "in periods of
industrial calm." "They were pools without penalties"
and more efficient in stabilizing prices. But it was the
further declaration that "when joint action was either
refused or withdrawn the Corporation's prices were controlled by competition."
The Corporation, it was said, did not at any time abuse
the power or ascendency it possessed. It resorted to none
of the brutalities or tyrannies that the cases illustrate of
possessed, to oppress and destroy its competitors, and it is likewise disclosed by the history of the industry subsequent to the organization of
the corporation that if it had made such an attempt it would have
failed. It is also shown by the testimony that, acting independently
and relying alone upon its power and wealth, great as they were, the
corporation has never been able to dominate the steel industry by controlling the supply of raw materials, restraining production of finished
products, or enhancing and maintaining the prices of either."

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

Opinion of the Court.

other combinations. It did not secure freight rebates; it
did not increase its profits by reducing the wages of its
employees-whatever it did was not at the expense of
labor; it did not increase its profits by lowering the quality
of its products, nor create an artificial scarcity of them;
it did not oppress or coerce its competitors-its competition, though vigorous, Was fair; it did not undersell its
competitors in some localities by reducing its prices there
below those maintained elsewhere, or require its customers
to enter into contracts limiting their purchases or restricting them in resale prices; it did not obtain customers by
secret rebates or departures from its published prices;
there was no evidence that it attempted to crush its
competitors or drive them out of the market, nor did it
take customers from its competitors by unfair means, and
in its competition it seemed to make no difference between
large and small competitors. Indeed it is said in many
ways and illustrated that "instead of relying upon its
own power to fix and maintain prices, the corporation, at
its very beginning sought and obtained the assistance of
others." It combined its power with that of its competitors. It did not have power in and of itself, and the control it exerted was only in and by association with its
competitors. Its offense, tlerefore, such as it was, was
not different from theirs and was distinguished from
theirs "only in the leadership it assumed in promulgating
and perfecting the policy." This leadership it gave up,
and it had ceased to offend against the law before this
suit was brought. It was hence concluded that it should be
distinguished from its organizers and that their intent and
unsuccessful attempt should not be attributed to it, that
it "in and of itself is not now and has never been a monopoly or a combination in restraint of trade," and a decree of
dissolution should not be entered against it.
This summary of the opinions, given necessarily in
paraphrase, does not adequately represent their ability

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

and strength, but it has value as indicating the contentions
of the parties, and the ultimate propositions to which the
contentions are addressed. The opinions indicate that
the evidence admits of different deductions as to the
genesis of the Corporation and the purpose of its organizers, but only of a single deduction as to the power it
attained and could exercise. Both opinions were clear
and confident that the power of the Corporation never did
and does not now reach to monopoly, and their review of
the evidence, and our independent examination of it,
enable us to elect between their respective estimates of it,
and we concur in the main with that of Judges Woolley,
and Hunt. And we add no comment except, it may be,
that they underestimated the influence of the tendency
and movement to integration, the appreciation of the
necessity or value of the continuity of manufacture from
the ore to the finished product. And there was such a
tendency; and though it cannot be asserted it had become
a necessity, it had certainly become a facility of industrial progress. There was, therefore, much to urge it and
give incentive to conduct that could accomplish it. From
the nature and properties of the industry, the processes of
production were something more than the stage and
setting of the human activities. They determined to an
extent those activities, furnished their motives, and gave
test of their quality-not, of course, that the activities
could get any immunity from size, or resources, or energies,
whether exerted in integrated plants or diversified ones.
The contentions of the case, therefore, must be judged
by the requirements of the law, not by accidental or
adventitious circumstances. But what are such circumstances? We have seen that it was the view of the District
Court that size was such a circumstance and had no
accusing or excusing influence. The contention of the
Government is to the contrary. Its assertion is that the
size of the Corporation being the result of a "combination

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

Opinion of the Court.

of powerful and able competitors" had become "substantially dominant" in the industry and illegal. And that
this was determined. The companies combined, is the
further assertion, had already reached a high degree of
efficiency, and in their independence were factors in
production and competition, but ceased to be such when
brought under the regulating control of the Corporation,
which by uniting them offended the law; and that the
organizers of the Corporation "had in mind the specific
purposes of the restraint of trade and the enormous
profits resulting from that restraint."
It is the contention of the Corporation opposing those
of the Government and denying the illegal purposes
charged against it, that the industry demanded qualities
and an enterprise that lesser industries do not demand and
must have a corresponding latitude and facility. Indeed,
it is insisted that the industry had practically, (to quote
the words of Judge Buffington, he quoting those of a
witness,) "reached the limit, or very nearly so, at which
economies from a metallurgical or mechanical standpoint
could be made effective," and "that instead, as was then
the practice, of having one mill to make 10 or 20 or 50
products, the greatest economy would result from having
one mill make one product, and make that product continuously." In other words, that there was a necessity
for integration, and rescue from the old conditionsfrom their improvidence and waste of effort; and that, in
redress of the conditions, the Corporation was formed, its
purpose and effect being "salvage not monopoly," to
quote the words of counsel. It was, is the insistence, the
conception of ability, "a vision of a great business which
should embrace all lines of steel and all processes of
manufacture from the ore to the finished product and
which by reason of the economies thus to be effected and
the diversity of products it would be able to offer, could
successfully compete in all the markets of the world."

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

It is urged further that to the discernment of that great
possibility was added a courage that dared attempt its
accomplishment, and the conception and the courage
made the formation of the Corporation notable but did not
make it illegal.
We state the contentions, we do not have to discuss
them, or review the arguments advanced for their acceptance or repulsion. That is done in the opinions of the
district judges, and we may well despair to supplement the
force of their representation of the conditions antecedent
to the formation of the Corporation and in what respect
and extent its formation changed them. Of course in that
representation and its details there is guidance to decision,
but they must be rightly estimated to judge of what they
persuade. Our present purpose is not retrospect for itself,
however instructive, but practical decision upon existing
conditions, that we may not by their disturbance produce,
or even risk, consequences of a concern that cannot now
be computed. In other words, our consideration should
be of not what the Corporation had power to do or did,
but what it has now power to do and is doing, and what
judgment shall be now pronounced-whether its dissolution, as the Government prays, or the dismissal of the suit,
as the Corporation insists?
The alternatives are perplexing-involve conflicting considerations, which, regarded in isolation, have diverse
tendencies. We have seen that the judges of the District
Court unanimously concurred in the view that the "Corporation did not achieve monopoly, and such is our deduction, and it is against monopoly that the statute is directed,
not against an expectation of it, but against its realization, and it is certain that it was not realized. The
opposing conditions were underestimated. The power
attained was much greater than that possessed by any one
competitor-it was not greater than that possessed by
all of them. Monopoly, therefore, was not achieved, and

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

Opinion of the Court.

competitors had to be persuaded by pools, associations,
trade meetings, and through the social form of dinners,
all of them, it may be, violations of the law, but transient
in their purpose and effect. They were scattered through
the years from 1901 (the year of the formation of the
Corporation), until 1911, but, after instances of 'success
and failure, were abandoned nine months before this suit
was brought. There is no evidence that the abandonment
was in prophecy of or dread of suit; and the illegal practices have not been resumed, nor is there any evidence of
an intention to resume them, and certainly no "dangerous
probability" of their resumption, the test for which
Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 396, is cited.
It is our conclusion, therefore, as it was that of the judges
below, that the practices were abandoned from a conviction of their futility, from the operation of forces that
were not understood or were underestimated, and the
case is not peculiar. And we may say in passing that the
Government cannot fear their resumption for it did not
avail itself of the offer of the District Court to retain
jurisdiction of the cause in order that if illegal acts should
be attempted they could be restrained.
What then can now be urged against the Corporation?
Can comparisons in other regards be made with its competitors .and by such comparisons guilty or innocent
existence be assigned it? It is greater in size and productive power than any of its competitors, equal or nearly
equal to them all, but its power over prices was not and is
not commensurate with its power to produce.
It is true there is some testimony tending to show that
the Corporation had such power, but there was also testimony and a course of action tending strongly to the contrary. The conflict was by the judges of the District
Court unanimously resolved against the existence of that
power, and in doing so they but gave effect to the greater
weight of the evidence. It is certain that no such power

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

was exerted. On the contrary, the only attempt at a
fixation of prices was, as already said, through an appeal
to and confederation with competitors, and the record
shows besides that when competition occurred it was not
in pretence, and the Corporation declined in productive
powers--the competitors growing either against or in
consequence of the competition. If against the competition we have an instance of movement against what the
Government insists was an irresistible force; iJ'
in consequence of competition, we have an illustration of the
adage that "competition is the life of trade" and is not
easily repressed. The power of monopoly in. the Corporation under either illustration is an untenable accusation.
We may pause here for a moment to notice illustrations
of the Government of the purpose of the Corporation, instancing its acquisition after its formation of control over
the Shelby Steel Tube Company, the Union Steel Company, and, subsequently, the Tennessee Company. There
is dispute over the reasons for these acquisitions which we
shall not detail. There is, however, an important circumstance in connection with that of the Tennessee Company which is worthy to be noted. It was submitted to
President Roosevelt and he gave it his approval. His
approval, of course, did not make it legal, but. it gives
assurance of its legality, and we know from his Earnestness
in the public welfare he would have approved of nothing
that had even a tendency to its detriment. And he
testified he was not deceived and that he believed that
"the Tennessee Coal and Iron people had a property
which was almost worthless in their hands, nearly worthless to them, nearly worthless to the communities in which
it was situated, and entirely worthless to any financial
institution that had the securities the minute that any
panic came, and that the only way to give value to it was
to put it in the hands of people whose possession of it

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

Opinion of the Court.

would be a guarantee that there was value to it." Such
being the emergency it seems like an extreme accusation
to say that the Corporation which relieved it, and, perhaps, rescued the company and the communities dependent upon it from disaster, was urged by unworthy motives. Did illegality attach afterwards and how? And
what was the Corporation to do with the property? Let it
decay in desuetude or develop its capabilities and resources? In the development, of course, there would be
profit to the Corporation, but there would be profit as well
to the world. For this reason President Roosevelt sanctioned the purchase, and it would seem a distempered
view of purchase and result to regard them as violations
of law.
From this digression we return to the consideration of
the conduct of the Corporation towards its competitors.
Besides the circumstances which we have mentioned there
are others of probative strength. The company's officers
and, as well, its competitors and customers, testified that
its competition was genuine, direct and vigorous, and was
reflected in prices and production. No practical witness
was produced by the Government in opposition. Its contention is based on the size and asserted dominance of the
Corporation-alleged power for evil, not the exertion of the
power in evil. Or as counsel put it, "a combination may
be illegal because of its purpose; it may be illegal because
it acquires a dominating power, not as a result of normal
growth and development, but as a result of a combination
of competitors." Such composition and its resulting
power constitute, in the view of the Government, the
offence against the law, and yet it is admitted "no competitor came forward and said he had to accept the Steel
Corporation's prices." But this absence of complaint
counsel urge against the Corporation. Competitors, it is
said, followed the Corporation's prices because they made
money by the imitation, Indeed the imitation is urged as

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 V. S.

an evidence of the Corporation's power. "Universal imitation," counsel assert, is "an evidence of power." In this
concord of action, the contention is, there is the sinister
dominance of the Corporation-" its extensive control of
the industry is such that the others [independent companies] follow." Counsel, however, admit that there was
"occasionally" some competition, but reject the suggestion that it extended practically to a war 'between the
Corporation and the independents. Counsel say, "They
[the Corporation is made a plural] called a few-they
called 200 witnesses out of some forty thousand customers,
and they expect with that customer evidence to overcome the whole train of price movement shown since
the Corporation was formed."
And "movement of
prices" counsel explained "as shown by the published
prices .
.
they were the ones that the competitors
were maintaining all during the interval."
It would seem that "200 witnesses" would be fairly
representative. Besides the balance of the "forty thousand customers" was open to the Government to draw
upon. Not having done so, is it not permissible to infer
that none would testify to the existence of the influence
that the Government asserts? At any rate, not one was
called, but instead the opinion of an editor of a trade
journal is adduced, and -that of an author and teacher of
economics whose philosophical deductions had, perhaps,
fortification from experience as Deputy Commissioner of
Corporations and as an employee in the Bureau of Corporations. His deduction was that when prices are constant through a definite period an artificial influence is
indicated; if they vary during such a period it is a consequence of competitive conditions. It has become an
aphorism that there is danger of deception in generalities,
and in a case of this importance we should have something surer for judgment than speculation, something
more than a deduction equivocal of itself even though the

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

Opinion of the Court.

facts it rests on or asserts were not contradicted. If the
phenomena of production and prices were as easily re-,
solved as the witness implied, much discussion and much
literature have been wasted, and some of the problems
that are now distracting the world would be given composing solution. Of course competition affects prices
but it is only one among other influences and does not
more than they, register itself in definite and legible
effect.
We magnify the testimony by its consideration. Against
it competitors, dealers and customers of the Corporation
testify in multitude that no adventitious interference was
employed to either fix or maintain prices and that they
were constant or varied according to natural conditions.
Can this testimony be minimized or dismissed by inferring
that, as intimated, it is an evidence of power not of weakness; and power exerted not only to suppress competition
but to compel testimony, is the necessary inference, shading into perjury to deny its exertion? The situation is
indeed singular, and we may wonder at it, wonder that the
despotism of the Corporation, so baneful to the world in
the representation of the Government, did not produce
protesting victims.
But there are other paradoxes. The Government does
not hesitate to present contradictions, though only one
can be true, such being we were told in our school books
the "principle of contradiction."
In one competitors
(the independents) are represented as oppressed by the
superior power of the Corporation; in the other they are
represented as ascending to opulence by imitating that
power's prices which they could not do if at disadvantage
from the other conditions of competition; and yet confederated action is not asserted. If it were this suit would
take on another cast. The competitors would cease to be
the victims of the Corporation and would become its accomplices. And there is no other alternative. The sug-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

gestion that lurks in the Government's contention that the
acceptance of the Corporation's prices is the submission of
impotence to irresistible power is, in view of the testimony
of the competitors, untenable. They, as we have seen,
deny restraint in any measure or illegal influence of any
kind. The Government, therefore, is reduced to the
assertion that the size of the Corporation, the power it
may have, not the exertion of the power, is an abhorrence
to the law, or as the Government says, "the combination
embodied in the Corporation unduly restrains competition by its necessary effect, [the italics are the emphasis of
the Government] and therefore is unlawful regardless of
purpose." "A wrongful purpose," the Gove:rnment adds,
is "matter of aggravation." The illegality is statical,
purpose or movement of any kind only its emphasis. To
assent to that, to what extremes should we be led? Competition consists of business activities and ability-they
make its life; but there may be fatalities in it. Are the
activities to be encouraged when militant, and suppressed or regulated when triumphant because of the
dominance attained? To such paternalism the Government's contention, which regards power rather than its
use the determining consideration, seems to conduct.
Certainly conducts we may say, for it is the inevitable
logic of the Government's contention that competition
must not only be free, but that it must not be pressed to
the ascendency of a competitor, for in ascendency there is
the menace of monopoly.
We have pointed out that there are several of the
Government's contentions which are difficult to represent
or measure, and, the one we are now considering, that is the
power is "unlawful regardless of purpose," is another of
them. It seems to us that it has for its ultimate principle
and justification that strength in any producer or seller is a
menace to the public interest and illegal because there is
potency in it for mischief., The regression is extreme, but

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

Opinion of the Court.

short of it the Government cannot stop. The fallacy it
conveys is manifest.
The Corporation was formed in 1901, no act Of aggression upon its competitors is charged against it, it confederated with them at times in offence against the law,
but abandoned that before this suit was brought, and
since 1911 no act in violation of law can be established
against it except its existence be such an act. This is
urged, as we have seen, and that the interest of the public
is involved, and that such interest is paramount to corporation or competitors. Granted-though it is difficult
to see how there can be restraint of trade when there is no
restraint of competitors in the trade nor complaints by
customers-how can it be worked out of the situation and
through what proposition of law? Of course it calls for
nothing other than a right application of the law and to
repeat what we have said above, shall we declare the law
to be that size is an offence even though it minds its own
business because what it does is imitated? The Corporation is undoubtedly of impressive size and it takes an
effort of resolution not to be affected by it or to exaggerate
its influence. But we must adhere to the law and the
law does not make mere size an offence or the existence of
unexerted power an offence. It, we repeat, requires overt
acts and trusts to its prohibition of them and its power to
repress or punish them. It does not compel competition
nor require all that is possible.
Admitting, however, that there is pertinent strength in
the propositions of the Government, and in connection
with them, we recall the distinction we made in the
Standard Oil Case (221 U. S. 1, 77) between acts done in
violation of the statute and a condition brought about
which "in and of itself, is not only a continued attempt to
monopolize, but also a monopolization." In such case, we
declared, "the duty to enforce the statute" required "the
application of broader and more controlling" remedies

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

than in the other. And the remedies applied conformed to
the declaration; there was prohibition of future acts and
there Was dissolution of "the combination found to exist
in violation of the statute" in order to "neutralize the
extension and continually operating force which the possession of the power unlawfully obtained" had. "brought"
and would "continue to bring about."
Are the case and its precepts applicable here? The
Steel Corporation by its formation united under one control competing companies and thus, it is urged, a condition
was brought about in violation of the statute, and therefore illegal and became a "continually operating force"
with the "possession of power unlawfully obtained."
But there are countervailing considerations. We have
seen whatever there was of wrong intent could not be executed, whatever there was of evil effect, was discontinued before this suit was brought; and this, we think,
determines the decree. We say this in full realization of
the requirements of the law. It is clear in its denunciation
of monopolies and equally clear in its direction that the
courts of the Nation shall prevent and restrain them (its
language is "to prevent and restrain violations of" the
act), but the command is necessarily submissive to the
conditions which may exist and the usual -powers of a
court of equity to adapt its remedies to those conditions.
In other words, it is not expected to enforce abstractions
and do injury thereby, it may be, to the purpose of the
law. It is this flexibility of discretion-indeed essential
function-that makes its value in our jurisprudencevalue in this case as in others. We do not mean to say
that the law is not its own measure and that it can be disregarded, but only that the appropriate relief in each
instance is remitted to a court of equity to determine, not,
and let. us be explicit in this, to advance a policy contrary
to that of the law, but in submission to the law and its
policy, and in execution of both. And it is certainly a

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

Opinion of the Court.

matter for consideration that there was no legal attack
on the Corporation until 1911, ten years after its formation and the commencement of its career. We do not, however speak of the delay simply as to its time-that there
is estoppel in it because of its time-but on account of
what was done during that time-the many millions of
dollars spent, the development made, and the enterprises
undertaken, the investments by the public that have been
invited and are not to be ignored. And what of the foreign
trade that has been developed and exists? The Government, with some inconsistency, it seems to us, would remove this from the decree of dissolution. Indeed, it is
pointed out that under congressional legislation in the
Webb Act the foreign trade of the Corporation is reserved
to it. And further, it is said, that the Corporation has constructed a company called the Products Company which
can be "very easily preserved as a medium through which
the steel business might reach the balance of the world,"
and that in the decree of "dissolution that could be provided." This is supplemented by the suggestion that not
only the Steel Corporation, "but other steel makers of the
country, could function through an instrumentality
created under the Webb Act." [C. 50, § 2, 40 Stat. 516.]
The propositions and suggestions do not commend
themselves. We do not see how the Steel Corporation can
be such a beneficial instrumentality in the trade of the
world and its beneficence be preserved, and yet be such an
evil instrumentality in the trade of the United States that
it must be destroyed. And by whom and how shall all the
adjustments of preservation or destruction be made?
How can the Corporation be sustained and its power of
control over its subsidiary companies be retained and
exercised in the foreign trade and given up in the domestic
trade? The Government presents no solution of the
problem. Counsel realize the difficulty and seem to
think that its solution or its evasion is in the suggestion

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

that the Steel Corporation and "other steel makers could
function through an instrumentality created under the
Webb Act." But we are confronted with the: necessity of
immediate judicial action under existing laws, not action
under conceptions which may never be capable of legal
execution. We must now decide and we see no guide to
decision in the propositions of the Government.
The Government, however, tentatively presents a
proposition which has some tangibility. It submits that
certain of the subsidiary companies are so mechanically
equipped and so officially directed as to be released and
remitted to independent action and individual interests
and the competition to which such interests prompt,
without any disturbance to business. The companies are
enumerated. They are the Carnegie Steel Company (a
combination of the old Carnegie Company, the National
Steel Company, and the American Steel Company), the
Federal Steel Company, the Tennessee Company and the
Union Steel Company (a combination of the Union Steel
Company of Donora, Pa., Sharon Steel Company of
Sharon, Pa., and Sharon Tin Plate Company). They are
fully integrated, it is said, possess their own supplies,
facilities of transportation and distribution. They are
subject only to the Steel Corporation is, in effect, the
declaration, in nothing but its control of their prices.
We may say parenthetically that they are defendants in
the suit and charged as offenders, and we have the strange
circumstance of violators of the law being urged to be
used as expedients of the law.
But let us see what guide to a procedure of dissolution
of the Corporation and the dispersion as well of its subsidiary companies, for they are asserted to be illegal combinations, is prayed. And the fact must not be overlooked or underestimated. The prayer of the Government
calls for not only a disruption of present conditions but
the restoration of the conditions of twenty years ago, if

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

Opinion of the Court.

not literally, substantially. Is there guidance to this in
the Standard Oil Case and the Tobacco Case [221 U. S.
1, 106]? As an element in determining the answer we shall
have to compare the 'cases with that at bar, but this can
only be done in a general way. And the law necessarily
must be kept in mind. No other comment of it is necessary. It has received so much exposition that it and all it
prescribes and proscribes should be considered as a consciously directing presence.
The Standard Oil Company had its origin in 1882 and
through successive forms of combinations and agencies it
progressed in illegal power to the day of the decree, even
attempting to circumvent by one of its forms the decision
of a court against it. And its methods in using its power
was of the kina that Judge Woolley described as "brutal,"
and of which practices, he said, the Steel Corporation was
absolutely guiltless. We have enumerated them and this
reference to them is enough. And of the practices this
court said no disinterested mind could doubt that the
purpose was "to drive others from the field and to exclude
them from their right to trade and thus accomplish the
mastery which was the end in view." It was further said
that what was done and the final culmination "in the
plan of the New Jersey corporation" made "manifest the
continued existence of the intent

.

.

.

and

.

impelled the expansion of the New Jersey corporation."
It was to this corporation, which represented the power and
purpose of all that preceded, that the suit was addressed
and the decree of the court was to apply. What we have
quoted contrasts that case with this. The contrast is
further emphasized by pointing out how in the case of the
New Jersey corporation the original wrong was reflected
in and manifested by the acts which followed the organization, as described by the court. It said: "The exercise of
the power which resulted from that organization fortifies
the foregoing conclusions [as to monopoly, etc.], since the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

development which came, the acquisition here and there
which ensued of every efficient means by which competition could have been asserted, the slow but resistless
methods which followed by which means of transportation were absorbed and brought under control, the system
of marketing which was adopted by which the country
was divided into districts and the trade in each district in
oil was turned over to a designated corporation within
the combination and all others were excluded, all lead the
mind up to a conviction of a purpose and intent which we
think is so certain as practically to cause the subject not
to be within the domain of reasonable contention."
The Tobacco Case has the same bad distinctions as the
Standard Oil Case. The illegality in which it was formed
(there were two American Tobacco Comparnies, but we use
the name as designating the new company as representing
the combinations of the suit) continued, indeed progressed
in intensity and defiance to the moment of decree. And
it is the intimation of the opinion if not its direct assertion
that the formation of the company (the word "combination" is used) was preceded by the intimidation of a trade
war "inspired by one or more of the minds which brought
about and became parties to that combination." In other
words the purpose of the combination was signalled to
competitors and the choice presented to them was submission or ruin, to become parties to the illegal enterprise
or be driven "out of the business." This was the purpose
and the achievement, and the processes by which achieved
this court enumerated to be the formation of new companies, taking stock in others to obscure the result actually
attained, but always to monopolize and retain power in
the hands of the few and mastery of the trade; putting
control in the hands of seemingly independent corporations
as barriers to the entry of others into the trade; the
expenditure of millions upon millions in buying out
plants not to utilize them but to close them; by con-

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

DAY, PITNEY, and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

stantly recurring stipulations by which numbers of persons, whether manufacturers, stockholders or employees,
were required to bind themselves, generally for long
periods, not to compete in the future. In the Tobacco
Case, therefore, as in the Standard Oil Case, the court had
to deal with a persistent and systematic lawbreaker
masquerading under legal forms, and which not only had
to be stripped of its disguises but arrested in its illegality.
A decree of dissolution was the manifest instrumentality
and inevitable. We think it would be a work of sheer
supererogation to point out that a decree in that case or
in the Standard Oil Case furnishes no example for a decree
in this.
In conclusion we are unable to see that the public interest will be served by yielding to the contention of the
Government respecting the dissoluition of the company or
the separation from it of some of its subsidiaries; and we
do see in a contrary conclusion a risk of injury to the public interest, including a material disturbance of, and, it
may be serious detriment to, the foreign trade. And in
submission to the policy of the law and its fortifying
prohibitions the public interest is of paramount regard.
We think, therefore, that the decree of the District
Court should be affirmed.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

and

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

dissenting.

This record seems to me to leave no fair room for a
doubt that the defendants, the United States Steel
Corporation and the several subsidiary corporations which
make up that organization, were formed in violation of
the Sherman Act. I am unable to accept the conclusion

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
DAY, PITNEY,

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

251 U. S.

which directs a dismissal of the bill instead of following
the well-settled practice, sanctioned by previous decisions
of this court, requiring the dissolution of combinations
made in direct violation of the law.
It appears to be thoroughly established that the formation of the corporations, here under consideration, constituted combinations between competitors, in violation of
law, and intended to remove competition and to directly
restrain trade. I agree with the conclusions of Judges
Woolley and Hunt, expressed in the court below (223
Fed. Rep. 161, et seq.), that the combinations were not
submissions to business conditions but were designed to
control them for illegal purposes, regardless of other consequences, and "were made upon a scale that was huge
and in a manner that was wild," and "properties were
assembled and combined with less regard to their importance as integral parts of an integrated whole than to
the advantages expected from the elimination of the
competition which theretofore existed between them."
Those judges found that the constituent companies of the
United States Steel Corporation, nine in number, were
themselves combinations of steel manufacturers, and the
effect of the organization of these combinations was to
give a control over the industry at least equal to that theretofore possessed by the constituent companies and their
subsidiaries; that the Steel Corporation was a combination of combinations by which directly or indirectly 180
independent concerns were brought under one control,
and in the language of Judge Woolley (p. 167):
"Without referring to the great mass of figures which
bears upon this aspect of the case, it is clear to me that
combinations were created by acquiring competing producing concerns at figures not based upon their physical
or their business values, as independent and separate
producers, but upon their values in combination; that is,.
upon their values as manufacturing plants and business

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

DAY, PITNEY,

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

concerns with competition eliminated. In many instances,
capital stock was issued for amounts vastly in excess of the
values of the properties purchased, thereby capitalizing
the anticipated fruits of combination. The control acquired over the branches of the industry to which the
combinations particularly related, measured by the
amount of production, extended in some instances from
80 per cent., to 95 per cent. of the entire output of the
country, resulting in the immediate increase in prices, in
some cases double and in others treble what they were
before, yielding large dividends upon greatly inflated
capital.
"The immediate, as well as the normal effect of such
combinations, was in all instances a complete elimination
of competition between the concerns absorbed, and a
corresponding restraint of trade."
The enormous overcapitalization of companies and the
appropriation of $100,000,000 in stock to promotion expenses were represented in the stock issues of the new
organizations thus formed, and were the basis upon
which large dividends have been declared from the profits
of the business. This record shows that the power obtained by the corporation brought under its control large
competing companies which were of themselves illegal
combinations, and succeeded to their power; that some of
the organizers of the Steel Corporation were parties to the
preceding combinations, participated in their illegality,
and by uniting them under a common direction intended
to augment and perpetuate their power. It is the irresistible conclusion from these premises that great profits to be
derived from unified control were the object of these
organizations.
The contention must be rejected that the combination
was an inevitable evolution of industrial tendencies compelling union of endeavor. Nothing could add to the vivid
accuracy with which Judge Woolley, speaking for himself

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
DAY,

PITNEY, and CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

251 U. S.

and Judge Hunt, has stated the illegality of the organization, and its purpose to combine in one gieat corporation
the previous combinations by a direct violation of the
purposes and terms of the Sherman Act.
For many years, as the record discloses, this unlawful
organization exerted its power to control and maintain
prices by pools, associations, trade meetings, and as the
result of discussion and agreements at the so-called
"Gary Dinners," where the assembled trade opponents
secured cooperation and joint action through the machinery of special committees of competing concerns, and
by prudent prevision took into account the possibility of
defection, and the means of controlling and perpetuating
that industrial harmony which arose from the control and
maintenance of prices.
It inevitably follows that the corporation violated the
law in its formation and by its immediate practices. The
power, thus obtained from the combination of resources
almost unlimited in the aggregation of competing organizations, had within its control the domination of the
trade, and the ability to fix prices and restrain the free
flow of commerce upon a scale heretofore unapproached in
the history of corporate organization in this country.
These facts established, as it seems to me they are by
the record, it follows that, if the Sherman Act is to be
given efficacy, there must be a decree undoing so far as is
possible that which has been achieved in. open, notorious,
and continued violation of its provisions.
I agree that the act offers no objection to the mere size
of a corporation, nor to the continued exertion of its lawful
power, when that size and power have been obtained by
lawful means and developed by natural growth, although
its resources, capital and strength may give to such
corporation a dominating place in the business and industry with which it is concerned. It is entitled to maintain
its size and the power that legitimately goes with it, pro-

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

DAY, PITNEY,

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

vided no law has been transgressed in obtaining it. But I
understand the reiterated decisions of this court construing the Sherman Act to hold that this power may not
legally be derived from conspiracies, combinations, or
contracts in restraint of trade. To permit this would be
to practically annul the Sherman Law by judicial decree.
This principle has been so often declared by the decisions
that it is only necessary to refer to some of them. It is the
scope of such combinations, and their power to suppress
and stifle competition and create or tend to create monopolies, which, as we have declared so often as to make its
reiteration monotonous, it was the purpose of the Sherman
Act to condemn, including all combinations and conspiracies to restrain the free and natural flow of trade in
the channels of interstate commerce. Pearsall v. Great
Northern Ry. Co., 161 U. S. 646, 676, 677; Trans-Missouri
FreightAssn. Case, 166 U. S. 290, 324; Northern Securities
Case, 193 U. S. 197; Addyston Pipe Co. v. United States,
175 U. S. 211, 238; Harrimanv. Northern Securities Co.,
197 U. S. 244, 291; Union Pacific Case, 226 U. S. 61, 88.
While it was not the purpose of the act to condemn normal
and usual contracts to lawfully expand business and
further legitimate trade, it did intend to effectively reach
and control all conspiracies and combinations or contracts
of whatever form which unduly restrain competition and
unduly obstruct the natural course of trade, or which
from their nature, or effect, have proved effectual to
restrain interstate commerce. Standard Oil Co. v. United
States, 221 U. S. 1; United States v. American Tobacco Co.,
221 U. S. 106; United States v. Reading Co., 226 U. S.
324; Straus v. American Publishers' Assn., 231 U. S. 222;
Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers' Assn. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 600.
This statute has been in force for nearly thirty years.
It has been frequently before this court for consideration,
and the nature and character of the relief to be granted

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
DAY, PITNEY,

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

251 U. S.

against combinations found guilty of violations of it have
been the subject of much consideration. Its interpretation has become a part of the law itself, and if changes are
to be made now in its construction or operation, it seems
to me that the exertion of such authority rests with Congress and not with the courts.
The fourth section is intended to give to courts of equity
of the United States the power to effectively control and
restrain violations of the act. In none of the cases which
have been before the courts was the character of the relief
to be granted, where organizations were found to be
within the condemnation of the act, more thoroughly considered than in the Standard Oil and Tobacco Company
Cases, reported in 221 U. S. In the former case, considering the measure of relief to be granted in the case.of a
combination, certainly not more obnoxious to the Sherman Act than the court now finds the one under consideration to be, this court declared that it must be twofold in character (221 U. S.78): "1st. To forbid the doing
in the future of acts like those which we have found to
have been done in the past which would be violative
of the statute. 2d. The exertion of such measure of relief
as will effectually dissolve the combination found to exist
in violation of the statute, and thus neutralize the extension and continually operating force which the possession
of the power unlawfully obtained has brought and will
continue to bring. about."
In the American Tobacco Company Case the nature of
the relief to be granted was again given consideration, and
it was there concluded that the only effectual remedy was
to dissolve the combination and the companies comprising
it, and for that purpose the cause was remanded to the
District Court to hear the parties and determine a method
of dissolution and of recreating from the elements composing it "a new condition which shall be honestly in
harmony with and not repugnant to the law." In that

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

DAY, PITNEY, and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting.

case the corporations dissolved had long been in existence,
and the offending companies were organized years before
the suit was brought and before the decree of dissolution
was finally made. Such facts were considered no valid
objection to the dissolution of these powerful organizations as the only effective means of enforcing the purposes
of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. These cases have been
frequently followed in this court, and in the lower federal
courts, in determining the nature of the relief to be
granted, and I see no occasion to depart from them now.
As I understand the conclusions of the court, affirming
the decree directing dismissal of the bill, they amount to
this: that these combinations, both the holding company
and the subsidiaries which comprise it, although organized
in plain violation and bold defiance of the provisions of the
act, nevertheless are immune from a decree effectually
ending the combinations and putting it out of their power
to attain the unlawful purposes sought, because of some
reasons of public policy requiring such conclusion. I know
of no public policy which sanctions a violation of the law,
nor of any inconvenience to trade, domestic or foreign,
which should have the effect of placing combinations,
which have been able thus to organize one of the greatest
industries of the country in defiance of law, in an impregnable position above the control of the law forbidding
such combinations. Such a conclusion does violence to
the policy which the law was intended to enforce, runs
counter to the decisions of the court, and necessarily
results in a practical nullification of the act itself.
There is no mistaking the terms of the act as they have
hitherto been interpreted by this court. It was not intended to merely suppress unfair practices, but, as its
history and terms amply show, it was intended to make it
criminal to form combinations or engage in conspiracies or
contracts in restraint of interstate trade. The remedy by
injunction, at the instance of the Attorney General, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
DAY, PITNEY,

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

251 U. S.

given for the purpose of enabling the courts, as the statute
states, to prohibit such conspiracies, combinations and
'contracts, and this court interpreting its provisions has
held that the proper enforcement of the act requires
decrees to end combinations by dissolving them and
restoring as far as possible the competitive conditions
which the combinations have destroyed. I am unable to
see force in the suggestion that public policy, or the assumed disastrous effect upon foreign trade of dissolving
the unlawful combination, is sufficient to entitle it to
immunity from the enforcement of the statute.
Nor can I yield assent to the proposition that this
combination has not acquired a dominant position in the
trade which enables it to control prices and production
when it sees fit to exert its power. Its total assets on
December 31, 1913, were in excess of $1,800,000,000; its
outstanding capital stock was $868,583,600; its surplus
$151,798,428. Its cash on hand ordinarily was $75,000,000;
this sum alone exceeded the total capitalization of any of
its competitors, and with a single exception, the total
capitalization and surplus of any one of them. That such
an organization thus fortified and equipped. could if it
saw fit dominate the trade and control competition would
seem to be a business proposition too plain to require
extended argument to support it. Its resources, strength
and comprehensive ownership of the means of production
enable it to adopt measures to do again as it has done in
the past, that is, to effectually dominate and control the
steel business of the country. From the earliest decisions
of this court it has been declared that it was the effective
power of such organizations to control and restrain competition and the freedom of trade that Congress intended
to limit and control. That the exercise of the power may
be withheld, or exerted with forbearing benevolence, does
not place such combinations beyond the authority of the
statute which was intended to prohibit their formation,

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
417.

DAY,

PITNEY, and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

and when formed to deprive them of the power unlawfully
attained.
It is said that a complete monopolization of the steel
business was never attained by the offending combinations. To insist upon such result would be beyond the
requirements of the statute and in most cases practicably
impossible. As we said in dealing with the Packers' combination in Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375,
396: "Where acts are not sufficient in themselves to produce a result which the law seeks to prevent-for instance,
the monopoly-but require further acts in addition to the
mere forces of nature to bring that result to pass, an intent
to bring it to pass is necessary in order to produce a
dangerous probability that it will happen. Commonwealth v. Peaslee, 177 Massachusetts, 267, 272. But
when that intent and the consequent dangerous probability exist, this statute [Sherman Act], like many others
and like the common law in some cases, directs itself
against that dangerous probability as well as against the
completed result."
It is affirmed that to grant the Government's request for
a remand to the District Court for a decree of dissolution
would not result in a change in the conditions of the steel'
trade. Such is not the theory of the Sherman Act. That
act was framed in the belief that attempted or accomplished monopolization, or combinations which suppress
free competition, were hurtful to the public interest, and
that a restoration of competitive conditions would benefit
the public. We have here a combination in control of
one-half of the steel business of the country.. If the plan
were followed, as in the American Tobacco Case, of remanding the case to the District Court, a decree might be
framed restoring competitive conditions as far as practicable. See United States v. American Tobacco Co., 191
Fed. Rep. 371. In that case the subject of reconstruction
so as to restore such conditions was elaborated and care-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

fully considered. In my judgment the principles there
laid down if followed now would make a very material
difference in the steel industry. Instead of one dominating
corporation, with scattered competitors, there would be
competitive conditions throughout the whole trade which
would carry into effect the policy of the law.
It seems to me that if this act is to be given effect, the
bill, under the findings of fact made by the court, should
not be dismissed, and the cause should be remanded to
the District Court, where a plan of effective and final
dissolution of the corporations should be enforced by a
decree framed for that purpose.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concur

in this dissent.

SCHAEFER v. UNITED STATES.
VOGEL v. UNITED STATES.
WERNER v. UNITED STATES.
DARKOW v. UNITED STATES.
LEMKE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Nos. 270-274.

Argued October 21, 1919.-Decided March 1, 1920.

The Espionage Act is constitutional. P. 470. Su arman v. United
States, 249 U. S. 182.
As applied to any of several defendants in a criminal case, the provision
of Jud. Code, § 287, that all sha!l be deemed a single party for the

