OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

statute are "The liability of the owner of any vessel for
any . . . injury by collision . . . shall in no
case exceed the amount or value of the interest of such
owner in such vessel." The literal meaning of the sentence
is reinforced by the words "in no case." For clearly the
liability would be made to exceed the interest of the
owner "in such vessel" if you said frankly, In some cases
we propose to count other vessels in although they are
not "such vessel"; and it comes to the same thing when
you profess a, formal compliance with the words but
reach the result by artificially construing "such vessel"
to include other vessels if only they are tied to it. Earlier
cases in the Second Circuit had disposed of the question
there, and those in other circuits for the most part if not
wholly are reconcilable with them. We are. of opinion
that the decision was right. The Transfer No. 21, 248
Fed. Rep. 459. The W. G. Mason, 142 Fed. Rep. 913.
The Erie Lighter 108, 250 Fed. Rep. 490, 497, 498. Van
Eyken v. Erie R. Co., 117 Fed. Rep. 712, 717.
Decree affirmed.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. COLE, ADMINISTRATRIX OF
ROBERTS, ETC.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 290.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted November 17, 1919.Decided December 8, 1919.

The Federal Constitution does not prevent the States from leaving
the defense of contributory negligence to the jury in all cases, those
in which it is a mere question of law as well as those in which it is
a question of fact. P. 55.
Oklahoma Constitution, Art. 23, ยง 6, sustained on this point.
74 Oklahoma, -, affirmed.

CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. CO. v. COLE.
54.

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. A. Ledbetter, Mr. H. L. Stuart, Mr. R. R. Bell
and Mr. E. P. Ledbetter, for defendant in error, in support

of the motion.
Mr. R. J. Roberts and Mr. C. 0. Blake, for plaintiff in
error, in opposition to the motion.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought by the defendant in error for
knocking down and killing her intestate, Roberts. He
stepped upon. the railroad track when a train was approaching in full view and was killed. It may be assumed,
as the State Court assumed, that, if the question were
open for a ruling of law, it would be ruled that the plaintiff could not recover. But the Oklahoma Constitution
provides that "the defense of contributory negligence
or of assumption of risk shall, in all cases whatsoever,
be a question of fact, and shall, at all times, be left to the
jury." Art. 23, ยง 6. The case was left to the jury and
they found a verdict for the plaintiff. Judgment was
entered for her and was affirmed on error by the Supreme
Court of the State, which held that the provision applied
to the case and that when so applied it did not contravene
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States.
The state constitution was in force when the death
occurred and therefore the defendant had only such right
to the defense of contributory negligence as that constitution allowed. The argument that the Railroad Company
had a vested right to that defense is disposed of by the
decisions that it may be taken away altogether. Arizona
Employers' Liability Cases, 250 U. S. 400.

Bowersock v.

Smith, 243 U. S. 29, 34. It is said that legislation cannot

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

change the standard of conduct, which is matter of law
in its nature into matter of fact, and this may be conceded;
but the material element in the constitutional enactment
is not that it called contributory negligence fact but that
it left it wholly to the jury. There is nothing, however,
in the Constitution of the United States or its Amendments that requires a State to maintain the line with
which we are familiar between the functions of the jury
and those of the Court. It may do away with the jury
altogether, Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90, modify its
constitution, Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581, the requirements of a verdict, Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v.
Bombolis, 241 U. S. 211, or the procedure before it.
Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 111. Frank v.
Mangum, 237 U. S. 309, 340. As it may confer legislative
and judicial powers upon a commission not known to the
common law, Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S.
210, it may confer larger powers upon a jury than those
that generally prevail. Provisions making the jury judges
of the law as well as of the facts in proceedings for libel
are common to England and some of the States, and the
controversy with regard to their powers in matters of
law more generally as illustrated in Sparf v. United States,
156 U. S. 51, and Georgia v. Brailsford, 3 Dallas, 1, 4,
shows that the notion is not a novelty. In the present
instance the plaintiff in error cannot complain that its
chance to prevail upon a certain ground is diminished when
the ground might have been altogether removed.
Judgment affirmed.

