WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. BOEGLI.
Opinion of the Court.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
BOEGLI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 83.

Submitted December 19, 1919.-Decided January 12, 1920.

An act of Congress regulating a subject of interstate commerce is not
to be narrowly construed for the purpose of preserving the state
power over the same subject previously enjoyed in the absence of
federal legislation. P. 316.
The Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 545, brought telegraph companies under the Act to Regulate Commerce and under the administrative control of the Interstate Commerce Commission, and so
subjected such companies to a uniform national rule, incompatible

with a power in the States to inflict penalties for failure to make
prompt delivery of interstate messages. Id. Postal Telegraph-Cable
Co. v. Warren-Godwin Lumber Co., ante, 27.
187 Indiana, 238, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Rush Taggart and Mr. 'Francis Raymond Stark for

plaintiff in error.
Mr. Arthur W. Parry for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Telegraph Company challenged the right to subject it to a penalty fixed by a law of Indiana for failure to
deliver promptly in that State a telegram sent there from
a point in Illinois, on the ground that the Act of Congress
of June 18, 1910, amending the Act to Regulate Commerce
(36 Stat. 539, 545), had deprived the State of all power in
the premises. The court conceding that if the act of Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

gress dealt with the subject the state statute would be inoperative, imposed the penalty on the ground that the Act
of 1910 did not extend to that field. The correctness of
this conclusion is the one controversy with which the
arguments are concerned.
The proposition that the Act of 1910 must be narrowly
construed so as to preserve the reserved power of the State
over the subject in hand, although it is admitted that that
power is in its nature federal and may be exercised by the
State only because of nonaction by Congress, is obviously
too conflicting and unsound to require further notice. We

therefore consider the statute in the light of its text and,
if there be ambiguity, of its context, in order to give effect
to the intent of Congress as manifested in its enactment.
As the result of doing so, we are of opinion that the
provisions of the statute bringing telegraph companies
under the Act to Regulate Commerce as well as placing
them under the administrative control of the Interstate
Commerce Commission so clearly establish the purpose of
Congress to subject such companies to a uniform national
rule as to cause it to be certain that there was no room
thereafter for the exercise by the several States of power
to regulate, by penalizing the negligent failure to deliver
promptly an interstate telegram, and that the court below
erred therefore in imposing the penalty fixed by the state
statute.
We do not pursue the subject further since the effect
of the Act of 1910 in taking possession of the field was
recently determined in exact accordance with the conclusion we have just stated. Postal Telegraph-Cable Co.
v. Warren-Godwin Lumber Co., ante, 27. That case, indeed, was concerned only with the operation, after the
passage of the Act of 1910, of a state statute rendering
illegal a clause of a contract for sending an interstate
telegram limiting the amount of recovery under the conditions stated in case of an unrepeated message; but the

BIRGE-FORBES CO. v. HEYE.
315.

Syllabus.

ruling that the effect of the Act of 1910 was to exclude
the possibility thereafter of applying the state law was
rested, not alone upon the special provisions of the Act of
1910 relating to unrepeated messages, but upon the
necessary effect of the general provisions of that act bringing telegraph companies under the control of the Interstate
Commerce Act. The contention as to the continuance
of state power here made is therefore adversely foreclosed.
Indeed, in the previous case the principal authorities here
relied upon to sustain the continued right to exert state
power after the passage of the Act of 1910 were disapproved and various decisions of state courts of last resort
to the contrary, one or more dealing with the subject now
in hand, were approvingly cited.
Reversed and remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

BIRGE-FORBES COMPANY v. HEYE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 76.

Argued November 13, 14, 1919.-Decided January 12, 1920.

A judgment for an alien enemy is objectionable only in so far as it may
give aid and comfort to the other side in the war. P. 323.
A judgment recovered in the District Court by an alien enemy before
he became such, the satisfaction of which was delayed by the other

party's appeal until the intervention of war, may properly be reviewed, during the war, and affirmed with directions that the money
be paid to the clerk of the trial court to be turned over to the Alien
Property Custodian; and a motion to dismiss or suspend the action
is correctly denied. Id.
Where a broker who became liable for his principal on several arbitration awards sued for their aggregate amount and was given a directed
verdict and a judgment against the principal for the part which he

