OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289; Caldwell v. North
Carolina, 187 U. S. 622; Rearick v. Pennsylvania,203 U. S.
507, 510; Dozier v. Alabama, 218 U. S. 124; Browning v.
Waycross, 233 U. S. 16; Western Oil Refining Co. v. Lipscomb, 244 U. S. 346; Cheney Bros. Co. v. Massachusetts, 246

U. S. 147, 153.'
Judgment affirmed.
No. 62. Gilligan v. City of Covington. By stipulation of
counsel this case was heard with No. 61, and it is agreed
that a similar judgment is to be entered.
Judgment affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE HOLMES dissent.

OKLAHOMA RAILWAY COMPANY v. SEVERNS
PAVING COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 106.

Argued November 19, 20, 1919.-Decided December 8, 1919.

A decree of a state court directing an assessment of land to pay for a
public improvement should not be so framed as to leave in doubt
the right of the property owner to be heard on the amount of the
assessment. P. 107.
In platting land outside of a city the owners dedicated in fee to a
street railway company, to induce it to extend its line, a strip,
for a right of way, 40 feet wide, along the center of a boulevard,
on condition that the strip be subject to reasonable police regulations and that the grantee construct crossings and curb and
pave them whenever, the boulevard should be paved. Held, that
the strip was subject to special assessment by the city for paving

OKLAHOMA RY. CO. v. SEVERNS PAV. CO.
104.

105

Counsel for Defendants in Error.

the roadways of the boulevard, after inclusion in the city limits,
and that the company's contract rights were not thereby impaired.
Id.
Provisions in a street railway franchise defining the grantee's obligation to pave certain portions of the city streets occupied by its lines,
held not to affect the city's right to impose a paving tax on a strip
of land, in the center of the street paved, owned by the company in
fee. Id.
67 Oklahoma, -, modified and affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John B. Dudley and Mr. Henry G. Snyder, with
whom Mr. Henry E. Asp was on the brief, for plaintiff
in error, contended:
(1) That the duty of the company as to paving
was fully defined in its franchise from the city, and
could not be enlarged without impairing that contract.
(2) That the company's duty in respect of paving,
in so far as related to its private right of way, was determined, as a matter of contract, binding on and not subject to be impaired by the City, by the terms of the
dedications by which such right of way and the adjacent
street were granted, as they were afterwards included
in the city limits, and upon the faith of which the company had extended its line.
(3) That the company's right to due process, under
the Fourteenth Amendment, was violated, by a refusal
of the courts below to permit it to prove that the paving
of the boulevard did and could confer no benefit whatever upon the right of way in question.
Mr. D. A. Richardson, with whom Mr. Russell 0.
Lowe, Mr. T. G. Chambers, Mr. B. A. Ames and .Mr.
Streeter B. Flynn were on the brief, for defendants in
error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

251 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the court.

In 1909 the owners platted Linwood Place, adjacent
to Oklahoma City, for building lots, streets, etc. To
procure extension of a street car line therein, they dedicated a strip forty feet in width, lying along the center
of what is now known as Linwood Boulevard, to plaintiff
in error's predecessor, "its successors and assigns, with
a like effect as though deeded and conveyed to said
company in fee simple by separate deed," on condition,
however, that the property should be subject to reasonable police regulations, that the grantee should construct
crossings over the tracks and also put down curbing and
pave the crossings whenever the boulevard itself should be
paved. Subordinate to above grant the streets as shown
on the plat were dedicated to the public for ordinary purposes of travel. Afterwards car tracks were laid in the center of the forty-foot strip and the corporate limits of Oklahoma City were extended to include Linwood Place.
In order to provide funds for paving the public roadways along Linwood Boulevard, the City undertook
in 1910 to lay a tax upon the adjacent property, and
directed that it be apportioned according to benefits.
The Board of Commissioners apportioned to the central
strip as its proper share of the expenses, $12,046.16. Instead of assessing this amount directly against the
property, the City Council erroneously assessed it against
the street car company. Thereafter, the City and the
Severns Company, which had put down the paving,
procured from the District Court of Oklahoma County
a mandamus directing a re-assessment against the land
itself, but a hearing upon objections thereto was not
specifically provided for.
The Supreme Court of the State (67 Oklahoma, -)
declared: "The fee title to the strip of land in question

OKLAHOMA RY. CO. v. SEVERNS PAV. CO.
104.

107

Opinion of the Court.

here appears to be in the railway company. ,..
Its
right is not merely an intangible privilege oraA easement,
but under the terms of the dedication is a fee simple
title. . . . The dominion and control of the strip of land
inquestion here is not in the city authorities. If the street
should be vacated by the city authorities, this private right
of way would not revert to the abutting owners, but
would continue to be the property of the railway company.
The company took the fee from the original grantors
by the dedication before the abutting owners acquired
their titles." It then held the land was subject to assessment according to benefits resulting from the paving,
and "that when the commissioners proceed in obedience
to the decree of the court to reassess the property of the
railway company, an opportunity will be given the
company to be heard and to complain or object to the
amount of the assessment."
Nevertheless, it ordered
an affirmance of the judgment of the trial court, without
more, and by so doing left in serious doubt the right
of plaintiff in error to a new and adequate hearing in
respect of the assessment. We think, therefore, that
the judgment below should be modified and corrected
so as definitely to preserve such right. So modified, it
is affirmed. The costs here will be equally divided.
The terms and conditions in the original franchise
granted by Oklahoma City to the plaintiff in error, which
require it, under given conditions, to pave or pay for
paving certain portions of occupied streets, are not
applicable in the circumstances here presented and
cannot be relied upon to defeat the assessment now in
question. The land supposed to be benefited belongs
to the company; the City has made no contract which
prevents imposition upon it of a fair share of the cost
of beneficial improvements. Louisville & Nashville R. R.
Co. v. BarberAsphalt Paving Co., 197 U. S. 430.
Modified and a~firmed.

