OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

affirmative defense which he must set up and establish.
Wright-Blodgett Co. v. United States, 236 U. S. 397, 403;
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Hower, 236 U. S. 702, 710.
If the patent is canceled Poland, or his assignee, will be
free to exercise the rights with which the patent was obtained (see 6 L. D. 290 and 459), and also to ask repayment under the Act of June 16, 1880, c. 244, 21 Stat. 287,
of the fees and commissions paid to the land officers.
Decree reversed.

PRODUCERS TRANSPORTATION COMPANY v.
RAILROAD COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.

No. 219. Argued December 12, 1919.-Decided January 5, 1920.
If in the beginning or during its subsequent operation a pipe line is
devoted by its owner to the use of the public in transporting oil for
hire, and if the right thus extended to the public has not been withdrawn, the pipe line is a public utility and its owner a common carrier whose rates and practices may be subjected to state regulation
consistently with the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 230.
The following grounds, relied on by the state court, have adequate
support in the evidence and sustain its conclusion that the plaintiff
in error had devoted its pipe line to public use, viz: (1) authority in
articles of incorporation to establish and carry on a general transportation business for transporting any oils produced by the pipeline company or otherg; (2) acquisition of part of its right of way
through eminent domain proceedings, admissible only, under the
state law, if the condemnation was for a public use and was by an
"agent of the State," and averments in such proceedings by the
condemnor that it was a common carrier seeking the right of way for a
public use; (3) transportation in substance for all producers seeking

PRODUCERS TRANSP. CO. v. R. R. COMM.

229

Opinion of *theCourt.

228.

the service, though done in form through an intermediate agency and
a system of contracts, it appearing that membership in such agency
was readily obtained and had not been refused. P. 231.
A common carrier cannot, by making contracts for future transportation, prevent or postpone the exertion by a State of the power to
regulate the carrier's rates and practices. P. 232.
Nor does the contract clause of the Constitution interpose any obstacle
to the exertion of that power. Id.
176 California, 499, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. V. Andrews, with whom Mr. Thomas 0. Toland,
Mr. Lewis W. Andrews and Mr. PaulM. Gregg were on the
briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Douglas Brookman for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
We here are concerned with a statute of California and
an order made thereunder by the state railroad commission, both of which are said to be repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and therefore invalid.
The statute declares that every private corporation
or individual operating "any pipe line or any part of
any pipe line . . . for the transportation of crude
oil . . . , directly or indirectly, to or for the public,
for hire, . . . and which said pipe line . . . is
constructed or maintained upon, along, over or under any
public high'vay, and in favor of whom the right of eminent
domain exists," shall be deemed a common carrier and
subject to the provisions of a prior act investing the railroad commission with extensive powers over the rates and
practices of those who operate public utilities. Stats.
1913, c. 327; Stats. 1911, Ex. Sess., c. 14.
The order of the commission was made after notice and

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

a full hearing; is based upon a finding that the Producers
Transportation Company, the plaintiff in error, has a
pipe line from the San Joaquin oil fields to Port Harford,
on the Pacific coast, whereby it transports crude oil for
pay in such circumstances that the statute requires that
it be regarded and dealt with as a common carrier; and
directs the filing with the commission of the company's
schedule of rates or charges and the rules and regulations
under which the transportation is conducted.
In the state court the company contended that the
evidence before the commission, all of which was before
the court, conclusively established that the pipe line was
constructed solely to carry crude oil for particular producers from their wells to the seacoast under strictly
private contracts, and that there had been no carrying for
others, nor any devotion of the pipe line to public use; and
the company further contended that the statute, as
applied to this pipe line, was repugnant to the due process
of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and the contract clause of § 10 of Article I of the Constitution, and
that the order of the commission was void as offending
against these clauses. The state court sustained both
the statute and the order, 176 California, 499, and the
company sued out this writ of error.
The company was organized under the laws of California in 1909 and its pipe line was put in operation in 1910.
The statute in question took effect August 10, 1913, and
the order was made December 31, 1914.
It is, of course, true that if the pipe line was constructed
solely to carry oil for particular producers under strictly
private contracts and never was devoted by its owner to
public use, that is, to carrying for the public, the State
could not by mere legislative fiat or by any regulating
order of a commission convert it into a public utility or
make its owner a common carrier; for that would be taking
private property for public use without just compensa-

PRODUCERS TRANSP. CO. v. R. R. COMM.
228.

231

Opinion of the Court.

tion, which no State can do consistently with the due
process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. Drainage Commissioners, 200 U. S. 561, 593; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v.
North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 595; Associated Oil Co. v.
Railroad Commission, 176 California, 518, 523, 526. And
see Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 126; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. West Coast Naval Stores Co., 198 U. S.
483, 495; Weems Steamboat Co. v. People's Steamboat Co.,
214 U. S. 345, 357; Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co. v.
Ochs, 249 U. S. 416, 419-420. On the other hand, if in the
beginning or during its subsequent operation the pipe line
was devoted by its owner to public use, and if the right
thus extended to the public has not been withdrawn, there
can be no doubt that the pipe line is a public utility and
its owner a common carrier whose rates and practices are
subject to public regulation. Munn v. Illinois, supra.
The state court, upon examining the evidence, concluded that the company voluntarily had devoted the
pipe line to the use of the public in transporting oil, and it
rested this conclusion upon the grounds, first, that one
of the things which the company was authorized to do,
if it so elected, as shown in its articles of incorporation,
was "to establish and carry on

.

.

a general trans-

.

portation business for the purpose of transporting
any

of the

oils

.

.

.

produced

.

.

.

by

this

corporation, or any other person, firm, partnership, association or corporation"; second, that in acquiring its
right of way it resorted to an exercise of the power of
eminent domain,-admissible only if the condemnation
was for a "public use," Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1237, 1238,
and was by "an agent of the State," Civ. Code, § 1001,and in that proceeding asserted, and obtained a judgment
reciting, that it was engaged in transporting oil by pipe
line "as a common carrier for hire" and that the right of
way was sought for "a public use"; and, third, that look-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

ing through the maze of contracts, agency agreements and
the like, under which the transportation was effected,
subordinating form to substance, and having due regard
to the agency's ready admission of new members and its
exclusion of none, it was apparent that the company did in
truth carry oil for all producers seeking its service, in
other words, for the public. See Pipe Line Cases, 234 U. S.
548.
While some criticism is made of this conclusion and the
grounds upon which it is rested, we are of opinion that the
grounds have adequate support in the evidence and that
they sustain the conclusion. True, one witness stated that
"the pipe line was not laid upon the right of way which
was obtained in the condemnation suit"; but, as his
further testimony disclosed that he meant only that a
part of the right of way so obtained was not usedwhen
the pipe line was laid, we think the state court rightly regarded the company as having acquired some of its actual
right of way by exercising the power of eminent domain
as a common carrier. If it was a common carrier at the
time of the condemnation suit it is such now, for nothing
has occurred in the meantime to change its status.
That some of the contracts before mentioned were
entered into before the statute was adopted or the order
made is not material. A common carrier cannot by making contracts for future transportation or by mortgaging
its property or pledging its income prevent or postpone the
exertion by the State of the power to regulate the carrier's
rates and practices. Nor does the contract clause of the
Constitution interpose any obstacle to the exertion of that
power. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Iowa,
94 U. S. 155, 162; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Mottley, 219 U. S. 467, 482; Union Dry Goods Co. v.
Georgia Public'Service Corporation, 248 U. S. 372.
Judgment affirmed.

