DUHNE v. NEW JERSEY.
Argument for Plaintiff.

DuHNE v. STATE OF NEW JERSEY ET AL.
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE BILL OF COMPLAINT.
No. -,

Original.

Argued January 5, 1920.-Decided January 12, 1920.

The federal courts have no jurisdiction of a suit brought by a citizen
against his own State without its consent. P. 313.
In ยง 2 of Art. III of the Constitution, the second clause merely distributes the federal jurisdiction conferred by the preceding one into
original and appellate jurisdiction, and does not itself confer any.

Id.
Permission will not be granted to file an original bill if jurisdiction to
entertain it is clearly lacking. P. 314.
Motion denied; rule discharged.

THE case is stated in the opinion.'
Mr. Everett V. Abbot, with whom Mr. Edward Hollander,
Mr. George W. Tucker and Mr. Benjamin. Tuska were on
the brief, for plaintiff, maintained that since, in Art. III,
the Constitution declares that the judicial power shall
extend to all cases arising under the Constitution, and
vests in this court original jurisdiction in all cases in which
a State shall be a party, it was the absolute duty of the
court to entertain the bill. For the questions which the
bill presented, as to the invalidity of the proposal and
ratification of the so-called Eighteenth Amendment,
indubitably made a case arising under the Constitution
and so within the judicial power of the United States. A
State was a party to it, and therefore, by the plain letter
of the Constitution, this court had, and must take, jurisdiction. The words were so plain that they would not
admit exceptions based on attempted interpretation.
There were many conflicting dicta on the right of a citizen
to sue his own State, but this, apparently, was the first
time in which an application of this kind had been pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.'
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

sented. He characterized the discussion of the question
in Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1, as obiter, the real situation there being that the Circuit Court had not jurisdiction

because, by the act of Congress, its jurisdiction was concurrent only with that of the state courts.
By far the most elaborate and most comprehensive
contribution to the discussion was made by Chief Justice
Marshall in a unanimous opinion of this court in Cohens

v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264. In that case he took a position
exactly contrary to that which he had advanced before
the Virginia Convention as quoted by this court in Hans
v. Louisiana. Such a complete reversal of views in a
jurist of his weight and authority was a striking tribute to
the strength of the argument that the Constitution means
what it says. His observations, though not necessary
to the decision, were unanswerable-the only discussion
of the question grounding itself frankly upon the language
of the Constitution and examining its words to ascertain
its meaning. Therefore, it was the only discussion relevant
to the present purpose, making clear that the letter of the
Constitution is also its spirit.
It was not true to say that this suit was without the
consent of the State, for the State had given its continuing
consent to such suits by accepting the Constitution.
Mr. Thomas F. McCran, Attorney General of the State
of New Jersey, for the State of New Jersey.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney
General Frierson was on the brief, for defendants other
than the State of New Jersey.
Memorandum opinion by MR.
by direction of the court.

CHIEF JUSTIE WHITE,

The complainant, a citizen of New Jersey, asked leave
to file an original bill against the Attorney General of the

DUHNE v. NEW JERSEY.
311.

Opinion of the Court.

United States, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
thereof and the United States District Attorney for the
District of New Jersey, as well as against the State of New
Jersey. The bill sought an injunction restraining the
United States officials named and the State of New Jersey,
its officers and agents, from in any manner directly or indirectly enforcing the Eighteenth Amendment to the
Constitutoir of the United States, any law of Congress or
statute of the State to the contrary, on the ground that
that Amendment was void from the beginning and formed
no part of the Constitution.
Answering a rule to show cause why leave to file the
bill should not be granted, if any there was, the defendants,
including the State of New Jersey, denied the existence
of jurisdiction to entertain the cause and this is the first
question for consideration.
So far as the controversy concerns the officials of the
United States, it is obvious that the bill presents no
question within the original jurisdiction of this court and
in effect that is not disputed since in substance it is conceded that the bill would not present a case within our
original jurisdiction if it were not for the presence of the
State of New Jersey as a defendant. But it has been long
since settled that the whole sum of the judicial power
granted by the Constitution to the United States does not
embrace the authority to entertain a suit brought by a
citizen against his own State without its consent. Hans v.
Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1; North Carolina v. Temple, 134
U. S. 22; Californiav. Southern Pacific Co., 157 U. S. 229;
Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516, 524.
It is urged, however, that although this may be the general rule, it is not true as to the original jurisdiction of this
court, since the second clause of ยง 2, Article III, of the Constitution, confers original jurisdiction upon this court "in
all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and
consuls, and those in which a State shall be a party." In

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

other words, the argument is that the effect of the clause
referred to is to divest every State of an essential attribute
of its sovereignty by subjecting it without its consent to
be sued in every case if only the suit is originally brought
in this court. Here again the error arises from treating
the language of the clause as creative of jurisdiction instead of confining it to its merely distributive significance
according to the rule long since announced as follows:
"This second clause distributes the jurisdiction conferred
in the previous one into original and appellate jurisdiction,
but does not profess to confer any. The original jurisdiction depends solely on the character of the parties, and
is confined to the cases in which a7e those enumerated
parties and those only." Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S.
1, 16. That is to say, the fallacy of the contention consists in overlooking the fact that the distribution which
the clause makes relates solely to the grounds of federal
jurisdiction previously conferred and hence solely deals
with cases in which the original jurisdiction of this court
may be resorted to in the exercise of the judicial power as
previously given. In fact, in view of the rule now so well
settled as to be elementary, that the federal jurisdiction
does not embrace the power to entertain a suit brought
against a State without its consent, the contention now
insisted upon comes to the proposition that the clause
relied upon provides for the exercise by this court of
original jurisdiction in a case where no federal judicial
power is conferred.
As the want of jurisdiction to entertain the bill clearly
results, it follows that the permission to file must be and
it is denied and our order is,
Rule discharged.

