CASH v. CULVER.
Opinion of the Court.

CASH v. CULVER, STATE PRISON CUSTODIAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.
No. 91. Argued January 22, 1959.-Decided February 24, 1959.
At a trial in a state court at which he was not represented by counsel,
petitioner was convicted of burglary and sentenced to imprisonment for 15 years. No appeal was taken, and the State Supreme
Court denied without a hearing a petition for habeas corpus which
he filed*later and in which he alleged, inter alia, that: He was 20
years old, uneducated and inexperienced in court trials. He was
represented by counsel at an earlier trial for the same offense which
resulted in a hung jury. He was then placed in solitary confinement, pending a new trial of which he was not notified until the
day before it began. Meanwhile, his counsel had withdrawn from
the case and his mother had made several unsuccessful attempts
to obtain other counsel. At the trial, he was denied both the
appointment of counsel for his defense and a continuance to enable
him to obtain counsel. His conviction was based largely on the
testimony of an alleged accomplice who pleaded guilty and testified
for the State-not only regarding the crime for which petitioner
was being tried but also regarding other alleged crimes. Held: If
petitioner's allegations be true, he was denied the due process of
law guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment; and it was incumbent on the state courts to determine what the true facts were.
Pp. 633-638.
Reversed.

Irwin 'L. Langbein, acting under appointment by the
Court, 357 U. S. 933, argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
Edward S. Jaifry, Assistant Attorney General" of
Florida, argued the cause, pro hac vice, by special leave
of the Court, for respondent. With him on the brief was
Richard W. Ervin, Attorney General.
MR. JUSTICE STEWART delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner is serving a 15-year prison sentence
imposed by a Florida court after conviction by a jury, of

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Qpinion of the Court.

358 U. S.

burglary.' He was not represented by counsel at the
trial. No appeal was taken, and the Supreme Court of
Florida denied without a hearing a petition for habeas
corpus which he later filed.2 Certiorari was granted to
determine whether the circumstances alleged in the
habeas corpus petition' make this a case where the denial
of counsel's assistance at the trial operated to deprive
the defendant of the due process of law guaranteed by
the Fourteenth Amendment. 357 U. S. 904. For reasons to be stated, we hold that this is such a case.
The record . here consists only of the habeas corpus
petition and the Florida Supreme Court's bare order of
.denial. With the case in that posture, the factual allegations of the petition must for present purposes be
accepted as true. Hawk v. Olson, 326 U. S. 271, 273.
Composed in the penitentiary, the petition, like many
such documents, is heavily larded with irrelevant innuendoes, unsupported conclusions, and pretentious legalisms. Within its confines, however, are to be found
allegations of a chain of events which we now relate.
On December 6, 1954, the petitioner, an uneducated
farm boy of 20, was first tried by a jury on the burglary
charge. At that trial he was represented by experienced
counsel of his own choice. At the conclusion of the evidence, the jury was unable to agree on a verdict, and a
mistrial resulted.
The petitioner. was then immediately placed in solitary
confinement, where he remained awaiting retrial. He
first learrd on the evening of February 20, 1955, that
his new trial was to take place the next day. Only a few
days earlier he had learned through a prison official that
his former lawyer had withdrawn from the case. The
1A noncapital offense in Florida, punishable in this case by a
maximum prison term' of 20 years. Fli. Stat., 1955, ยง 810.01.
2 The petition was originally filed in that court in accordance with
state procedure explained in Sneed v. Mayo, 66 So, 2d 865, 874.

CASH v. CULVER.
633

Opinion of the Court.

petitioner's mother on his behalf had tried to engage a
number of other. lawyers to represent him, but they had
all refused, telling her that the fee she could offer was
inadequate, and the time for preparation too short.
At the opening of the second trial the petitioner asked
the court for a continuance to give him time to employ a
new lawyer, or in the alternative that the court appoint
counsel for him. In making these requests the petitioner
called the trial judge's attention to his youth, his lack of
education and courtroom experience, and the sudden
withdrawal of prior counsel.' The requests were denied,
and the trial proceeded at once, with the petitioner left
to conduct his own defense.4
His co-defendant, Allen, an alleged accomplice, pleaded
guilty and testified for the State. Allen stated, among
other things, that he and the petitioner in the company
of two others had burglarized stores, stolen a truck, and
engaged in a running gun battle with police. He further
testified that he (Allen) had "pulled a $180,000 robbery"
in New Orleans with two of the petitioner's older brothers,
SOn this point the allegations of the petition are as follows:
"Petitioner explained to the Court that he was not capable of representing himself, that he was only 20 years of age and was uneducated and had never heard a court trial except the one time he
was tried on the same charge, and then he was represented. by Mr.
Carr,'and that he did not know court procedure or how to conduct
his defense, and told the court he had been closely confined in
solitary at-the Florida State Prison at Raiford, up until the night
before, and therefore he had 'no opportunity to employ new counsel,
since the Court had permitted his chosen counsel to abandon him
in the face of trial, and it was an absolute necessity that the
court granit a continuance, or, in the alternative, for the court
to remedy the situation by appointing counsel to represent the
petitioner."
'Under Florida law a trial court has an absolute duty to provide
counsel only for an indigent defendant on trial for a capital offense.
Sneed v. Mayo, 66 So. 2d 865, 872; Johnson v. Mayo, 158 FIa. 264, 28
So. 2d 585; Fla. Stat., 1955, ยง 909.21.

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

358 U. S.

in which the petitioner had taken no part, and that one
of these brothers had also, participated in the crime for
which the petitioner was on trial. Physical evidence was
introduced, including a revolver stolen from the store the
petitioner was charged with burglarizing, which had been
found in Allen's possession. No evidence in the case
except- Allen's testimony connected Allen and the petitioner: Itis not clear what, if any, objections were made
to Allen's testimony, or whether he was cross-examined.'
On conviction, the petitioner, a first offender, was
sentenced to the 15-year prison term he is now serving.
Allen, an ex-convict, was sentenced to 10 years, but placed'
on probation. No charges were brought against the petitioner's brother or the fourth person named by Allen as
a participant in the crime for which the petitioner was
convicted.
In the 17 years that have passed since its decision in
Betts v. Brady, 316 U. S. 455, this Court, by a traditional
process of inclusion and exclusion has, in a series of
decisions, indicated the factors which may render state
criminal proceedings without counsel so apt to result in
injustice as to violate the Fourteenth Amendment., The
5 The habeas corpus petition incorporates, among other things,
excerpts from a newspaper account of the trial, a form of pleading
to which the Florida Attorney General makes no objection in the
present case. An excerpt from this newspaper account reads as
follows: "While making objections and inquiring of the Judge and
witnesses, Cash appeared -unsure of himself. On several occasions
he would start a sentence, then stop to rephrase it or start on another
subject. Before making objections Cash raised his hand to attract
the attention of the Judge, then in a halting manner would make his
statement."
6 See Rice v. Olson, 324 U. S. 786; Canizio v. New York, 327
U. S. 82; De Meerleer v. Michigan, 329"U. S. 663; Foster v. Illinois,
332 U. S. 134; Gayes v. New York, 332" U. S. 145; Bute v. Illinois,
333 U. S. 640; Wade v. Mayo, 334 U, S. 672; Gryger v. BRurke,-334

CASH v. CULVER.
633

Opinion of the Court.

alleged circumstances of the present case so clearly make
it one where, under these decisions, federal organic law
required the assistance of counsel that it is unnecessary
here to explore the outer limits of constitutional protection
in this area.
"Where the gravity of the crime and other factors--such
as the age and education of the defendant, the conduct of
the court or the prosecuting officials, and the complicated
nature of the offense charged and the possible defenses
thereto-render criminal proceedings without counsel so
apt to result in injustice as to be fundamentally unfair,"
the Constitution requires that the accused must have
legal assistance at his trial. Uveges v. Pennsylvania,335
U. S. 437,. 441. Of particular relevance here are the decisions of the Court which have held the appointment of
couhsel necessary to a fair trial because of the complexity
of the proceedings. Rice v. Olson, 324 U. S. 786; Gibbs
v. Burke, 337 U. S. 773; and see Williams v. Kaiser, 323
U. S.471, 475-476.
All that stood between the petitioner and a verdict of
.acquittal was the testimony of Allen-an admitted accomplice. Although Florida law does not require corroboratiofi of an accomplice's testimony to sustain a conviction,
Land v. State, 59 So. 2d 370, the defendant has a right
to demand that the trial judge instruct the jury that the
"evidence of an accomplice should be received by the jury
with great caution." Varnum v. State, 137 Fla. 438, 449,
188 So. 346, 351.- The Florida decisions also establish the
right to cross-examine an accomplice witness as to whether
he is testifying under an agreement for leniency, and even
U. S.728; Townsend v. Burke, 334 U. S. 736; Uveges v. Pennsylvania,
335 U. S. 437; Gibbs v. Burke, 337 U. S. 773; Quicksall v. Michigan,
339 U. S. 660; Palmer v. Ashe, 342 U. S. 134; Massey v. Moore, 348
U. S. 105; Pennsylvania ex rel. Herman v. Claudy, 350 U. S. 116;
Moore v. Michiaan. 355 U. S. 155.

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

358 U. S.

as to whether he believes that his testimony will be in his
best interest. Leavine v. State, 109 Fla. 447, 147 So. 897;
Henderson v. State, 135 Fla.. 548, 555, 185 So, 625,
627 (concurring opinion). A layman would hardly be
familiar with these rights.
Moreover, Allen's testimony concerning the petitioner's
commission of other crimes and the commission of a crime
by the petitioner's brother, who allegedly also participated in the burglary which was the subject of the trial,
if not inadmissible in its entirety, certainly raised serious
questions under Florida law. As the Florida Supreme
Court has recently noted,*"There are literally thousands
of cases in this country discussing the admission of such
evidence." Padgett v. State, 53 So. 2d 106, 108. The
problems which this testimony. raised were thus beyond
the ken of a layman, and it was clearly the kind of testimony that could seriously damage a defendant in the
eyes of a jury.. Finally, the transcript of the petitioner's
previous trial would have offered a lawyer opportunities
for impeachment of prosecution witnesses, opportunities
of which we cannot assume that a layman would be
aware. 7
For these reasons, the requirements of due process made
necessary the assistance of a lawyer if the circumstances
alleged in the habeas corpus petition are true. On the
present record there is no way to test their truth. But
-the allegations themselves made it incumbent upon the
.Florida courts to determine what the true facts were.8
Reversed.
7 The very fact that the jury failed to convict at the first trial,
when the petitioner was represented by counsel, is at least some
practical indication- of the difference a lawyer's help-at the second
trial might have made.
8 Counsel has advised us that a transcript of the trial proceedings
can be made available by the court reporter.

