OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

COOPER v. DOBSON.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UN2ITED
EASTERN

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 179. Argued January 24, 25, 1S95. -Decided

March 11, 1595.

Under Schedule K, clause 2, of the tariff act of March 3, 1883, c. 120, all hair
of the alpaca, goat, and other like animals, is subjected to a uniform duty
of ten cents a pound; and goat's hair is not comprehended in the clause
relating to hair "not specially provided for."

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-M'. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Richard P. W/hite for defendants in error. )r.
Thtomas Earle White and Xr. Joseph P. .1MCullen were on
his brief.

I'R. JusTicis SHIRAs delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania by the
firm of John and James Dobson against the collector of customs, to recover an alleged excess of tariff duties paid under
protest.
The controversy was over the character of merchandise
imported by the plaintiffs and claimed by them to be free
from duty, but which was appraised by the officers of the
government as subject to duty at the rate of ten cents a
pound.
The question involves a construction of the tariff act of
March 3, 1883, c. 120, 22 Stat. 487. The importers claim that
the article imported by them was hair within the meaning of
paragraph 717(, page 519, which is in the following terms:
"Hair, horse or cattle, and hair of all kinds, cleaned or
uncleaned, drawn or undrawn, but unmanufactured, not specially enumerated or provided for in this act," to be free.

COOPER v. DOBSON.
Opinion of the Court.

The collector classified the importation as goat hair under
Schedule K, some of the terms of which were as follows:
"All wools, hair of the alpaca, goat, and other like animals,
shall be divided, for the purpose of fixing the duties to be
charged thereon, into the three following classes:
"Class one, clothing wools. -That is to say, merino, mestiza, metz, or metis wools, or other wools of merino blood,
etc.
"Class two, combing wools. - That is to say, Leicester,
Cotswold, Lincolnshire, down combing wools, Canada long
wools, or other like combing wools of English blood, and
usually known by the terms herein used, and also all hair of
the alpaca, goat, and other like animals.
"Class three, carpet wools and other similar wools. - Such
as Donskoi, native South America, Cordova, Valparaiso, native
Smyrna, and including all wools of like character as have been
heretofore usually imported into the United States from Turkey, Greece, Egypt, Syria and elsewhere."
The schedule further provides that wools of the first class
shall pay a duty of ten cents per pound; wools of the second
class, and "all hair of the alpaca, goat, and other like animals," ten cents per pound; wools of the third class, two and
a half cents per pound.
A duty was exacted against the importation in question
under class two at the rate of ten cents per pound.
The case resulted in a verdict and judgment in favor of the
importers.
At the trial there was evidence on both sides as to the
true character of the hair. It appears that the goods were
invoiced as white cattle hair, but were described in the protest
as common goat hair. Samples were exhibited to the jury of
various forms of wools under class two, including a sample of
the goods in dispute. The witnesses on behalf of the importers did not all agree, but the most of them said that the goods
were goat hair, or common goat hair.
James Dobson, one of the plaintiffs, testified, that he had
been engaged for more than twenty years in handling and
manufacturing wool and hair, and that the goods in question,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

in the present case, as shown by the sample, were common
goat hair.
Assuming, then, as we have a right to do, that these goods
were common goat hair, the problem is, under what clause
of the act of 1883 is common goat hair to be classified.
The answer would be readily made if it is to be found in the
terms of the statute: "Class two, combing wools. - That is to
say, . . . all hair of the alpaca, goat, and other like animals; " and, in the taxing clause, "all hair of the alpaca, goat,
and other like animals," ten cents per pound.
But it is contended that, in designating what should be
included in class two, Congress specified, not wools generally,
but combing wools, and that the evidence shows that the article in question was not combing wool, nor was it anything
that could be used for combing purposes; and of that view
was the learned judge who tried the case below. lHe refused
to charge as requested, that, if the jury found that the article
in dispute was hair of the goat and under 30 cents per pound,
their verdict should be for defendant, but charged that if the
jury were satisfied that the article is what is called common
goat hair, they should find for the plaintiffs, because if it
were such, it is not to be classified under the section applied
to it by the appraiser; and again, he charged that if the jury
were not satisfied that the article was such as is known to the
trade as common goat hair, they should inquire whether it
was known to commerce as combing hair, and if not such,
they should find for the plaintiffs.
it is, therefore, evident that the court below construed the
statute as meaning that class two should consist wholly of
articles that could be used for combing purposes, that is,
as well hair of the goat as wools that were susceptible of
treatment by combing. To reach that construction the court
was obliged to lose sight of some of the words in the statute.
Thus in the leading clause of Schedule K: "All wools, hair of
the alpaca, goat, and other like animals, shall be divided, for
the purpose of fixing the duties to be charged thereon, into the
three following classes," and in class two, "1Combing wools.
-That is to say, Leicester, Cotswold, down combing wools,,

COOPER v. DOBSON.
Opinion of the Court.

or other like combing wools of English blood, and usually
known by the terms herein used, and also all hair of the
alpaca, goat, and other like animals." So, in the taxing clause,
"Wools of the second class, and all hair of the alpaca, goat,
and other like animals." Instead of reading the statute in the
language in which it is written, viz., combing wools and all
hair of the goat, the court below reads it thus: All combing
wools and combing hairs, or combing wools and such hair of
the alpaca, goat, etc., as are capable of being combed.
There is no apparent reason why Congress might not have
thought fit to classify combing wools under the same head
with all hair of the alpaca, goat, and other like animals.
Such is the natural meaning of the language used, and no
necessity is shown why it should be departed from.
In the tariff act of 1890 we find the leading clause thus
expressed: "All wools, hair of the camel, goat, alpaca, and
other like animals, shall be divided, for the purpose of fixing
the duties to be charged thereon, into the three following
classes;" and the second clause of classification is thus expressed: "Class two. That is to say, Leicester, Cotswold,
Lincolnshire, down combing wools, Canada long wools, or
other like combing wools of English blood, and usually known
by the terms herein used, and also hair of the camel, goat,
alpaca, and other like animals."
This language of the act of 1890 has recently been construed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the First Circuit in the case
of United States v. Hopewell, 5 U. S. App. 137. The case
arose on a decision of the board of general appraisers, affirming the collector of the port of Boston in assessing on two
bales of goat's hair a duty at the rate of 12 cents a pound,
under Schedule K of the tariff act of 1890, imposing such a
duty on hair of the camel, goat, alpaca, and other like animals. The importers contended that their goods should have
been admitted under that paragraph of the free list which provided that hair of horse, cattle, or other animals not specially
provided for in the act should be free.
The Circuit Court, 48 Fed. Rep. 630, ruled, with the contention of the importers, and adjudged that the decision of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

board of general appraisers should be reversed. On appeal,
the judgment of the Circuit Court was reversed, and the Court
of Appeals held, per Mr. Justice Gray, sitting with Putnam,
Circuit Judge, and Nelson, District Judge, as follows:
"The facts found in the record, and on which this case must
be decided, are that the wools specified in class 2, as well as
the hair of the camel and of the alpaca, are all fit, adapted, and
used for combing purposes; that there are breeds of goats, such
as the Cashmere and the Angora, which produce hair for combing purposes; but that the goat hair in this case is common
goat hair, unfit for combing purposes, and similar in its adaptability and use to the hair of horses and cattle. Upon the
face of the act of 1890, and according to the clear and unambiguous meaning of its words, no wools, indeed, are included
in class 2, except combing wools, or wools fit for combing ; but
there is no such restriction with regard to hair; and 'hair of
the camel, goat, alpaca, and other animals' is subjected to a
duty of 12 cents a pound, to whatever uses or purposes it is or
may be adapted ; and goat's hair, being thus specified as subject to a particular rate of duty, is not comprehended in the
clause relating to hair not specially provided for in this act."
The court proceeded to consider arguments based upon the
previous acts and decisions thereunder, and particularly the act
of 1883, and the ruling in this very case, Dobson v. Cooper, 46
Fed. Rep. 184, but was of opinion that there had been no clear
or well-settled construction arrived at under the previous laws.
The phraseology of the act of 1890 relieved that case from
the perplexity that was occasioned by the suggestion that the
words "alpaca, goat," in the act of 1883, were intended to describe, not two animals, but one only, an "alpaca goat," thus
affording a basis for the contention that the whole clause
included only animals producing hair or wool like said "alpaca
goat." As the order of the words in the act of 1890 is "camel,
goat, alpaca," it is obvious that Congress, in that act, did not
have in view the existence of such an animal as an "1alpaca
goat," and it is fair to presume that the animals enumerated
in the act of 1883 were the same with those named in the
subsequent act.

NEEL v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
Statement of the Case.

Adopting the reasoning and the language of the opinion of
the Circuit Court of Appeals above referred to, we hold that,
upon the face of the act of 1883, and according to the clear
and unambiguous meaning of its words, no wools, indeed, are
included in class 2, except combing wools or wools fit for
combing; but that there is no such restriction with regard to
hair, and that "all hair of the alpaca, goat, and other like animals" is subjected to a uniform duty of ten cents a pound, to
whatever uses or purposes it is or may be adapted; and that
goat's hair, being thus specified as subject to a particular rate
of duty, is not comprehended in the clause relating to hair
"not specially provided for in this act."
The judgment of the Circuit Court
Is reversed, and the case remanded with directions to award
a new trial.

NEEL v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 18.

Submitted January28, 195.-Decided March 11, 1895.

When a defendant in a state court removes the cause to a Circuit Court of
the United States on the ground of diverse citizenship, and the Circuit
Court gives judgment for the defendant, and the plaintiff below brings
the case here, and it appears, on examining the record, that the pleadings
do not disclose of what State the plaintiff' was a citizen, this court will
of its own motion reverse the judgment, remand the cause to the Circuit
Court with costs against the defendant in error, and further adjudge that
defendant must also pay costs in this court.

Tins action was brought in the Court of Common Pleas of
Richland County, Ohio, and removed into the Circuit Court
by the defendant. The petition for removal stated: "First.
The plaintiff was at the time of the commencement of this
action and still is a resident of the State of Ohio, in the county
of Richland. Second. The Pennsylvania Company, the de-

