NEEL v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
Statement of the Case.

Adopting the reasoning and the language of the opinion of
the Circuit Court of Appeals above referred to, we hold that,
upon the face of the act of 1883, and according to the clear
and unambiguous meaning of its words, no wools, indeed, are
included in class 2, except combing wools or wools fit for
combing; but that there is no such restriction with regard to
hair, and that "all hair of the alpaca, goat, and other like animals" is subjected to a uniform duty of ten cents a pound, to
whatever uses or purposes it is or may be adapted; and that
goat's hair, being thus specified as subject to a particular rate
of duty, is not comprehended in the clause relating to hair
"not specially provided for in this act."
The judgment of the Circuit Court
Is reversed, and the case remanded with directions to award
a new trial.

NEEL v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 18.

Submitted January28, 195.-Decided March 11, 1895.

When a defendant in a state court removes the cause to a Circuit Court of
the United States on the ground of diverse citizenship, and the Circuit
Court gives judgment for the defendant, and the plaintiff below brings
the case here, and it appears, on examining the record, that the pleadings
do not disclose of what State the plaintiff' was a citizen, this court will
of its own motion reverse the judgment, remand the cause to the Circuit
Court with costs against the defendant in error, and further adjudge that
defendant must also pay costs in this court.

Tins action was brought in the Court of Common Pleas of
Richland County, Ohio, and removed into the Circuit Court
by the defendant. The petition for removal stated: "First.
The plaintiff was at the time of the commencement of this
action and still is a resident of the State of Ohio, in the county
of Richland. Second. The Pennsylvania Company, the de-

OCTOBER TERAT, 1894.
Syllabus.

fendant herein, is a corporation duly incorporated under and
by virtue of the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, and was at
the commencement of this action and still is a citizen of that
State, and was not then, nor has it ever been, a citizen of the
State of Ohio. Third. The matters in controversy in this
suit are wholly between citizens of different States, and the
amount in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum of two
thousand dollars, and is to recover the sum of ten thousand
($10,000) dollars."
The record failed to show of what State plaintiff was a
citizen.
-Mr. Darius .Dirlamfor plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE stated the case, and said: On the
authority of Grace v. American Central nsrance
,
Co., 109
U. S. 278, 283, 284; Continental Insurance Co. v. Rhoads,
119 U. S. 237; and .Mansfield, Coldwater &b Lake .Michigan,
Railway v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 388, the judgment of the
Circuit Court will be reversed, with instructions to remand
the case to the state court with costs against defendant in
error, which must also pay the costs in this court. ifanrick
v. Hanrick, 153 U. S.192, 198.
Judgment reversed accordingly.

BEUTTELL v. MAGONE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 118. Argued December 19, 1595. - Decided March 11, 1895.

A request made to the court by each party to instruct the jury to render
a verdict in his favor, is not equivalent to the submission of the case to
the court without the intervention of a jury, within the intent of Rev.
Stat. §§ 649, 700.

