OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

and a person injured while loading rails on a car to be taken
to other portions of the company's road, were all within the
provisions of the act in question; and the court said: "In this
case the plaintiff was injured while on a car assisting in loading timbers to be transported over the defendant's road to
some other point.. The mere fact that the plaintiff's regular employment was as a bridge carpenter does not affect the case,
nor does it matter that the road was newly constructed, nor
whether it was in regular operation or not. The injury happened to the plaintiff while he was engaged in labor directly
connected with the operation of the road, and the statute
applies even though it should be given the construction counsel places on it." And see Ohicago, Rock Island & Pacific
Railway Co. v. Stadey, 62 Fed. Rep. 363.
We concur in this view and the judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.
BAKER v. WOOD.
APPEAL FROM THE

No. 162.

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued January 21, 1895. -Decided

STATES FOR

March IS, 1895.

In determining whether the judgment plaintiff and real owner of an assigned
judgment is cstopped to assert his ownership as against a second assignee, on the ground that the second assignee occupies the position of a
purchaser for value in good faith and without notice and in reliance on
the apparent ownership, the amount of the consideration paid by him is
an important fact.
When such amount is greatly disproportionate to the true value of the
judgment, that fact may authorize the inference that the claim to have
paid value is a pretence ; and it is further important, as bearing on the
questions of notice and of good faith.
In such case the interest of the second assignee of the judgment, if recognized, should be limited to the amount he actually paid and the measure of the estoppel also limited accordingly.

THIS was a bill filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Colorado on October 23, 1886, by
Lucien Baker against E. If. iulburd, Daniel E. Parks, 1N. P.
Seeley, and Samuel N. Wood, praying that defendants Seeley,

BAKER v. WOOD.
Statement of the Case.

Wood, and Parks be restrained from in any manner selling,
transferring, or disposing of a certain judgment recovered by
Baker against the board of county commissioners of Lake
County, Colorado, and from demanding payment of the same
from the board until the final hearing of the cause; and that,
upon final hearing, an assignment of the judgment by Hulburd to Wood, and also an assignment by Baker to Hulburd,
be cancelled; and for general relief. It appeared that on
November 12, 1883, Baker recovered a judgment in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Colorado
against the county of Lake for the sum of $16,054.27. In
this suit ilulburd was attorney for plaintiff and Parks attorney
for the county of Lake. Some time thereafter Baker instituted proceedings in the Circuit Court to compel payment of
the judgment, but on account of the amount of taxes that
had already been levied in that county, the court refused to
order the county to levy a tax, and the judgment stood unsatisfied and in full force and effect against the county of Lake
until about May 20, 1886. It is charged in the bill that
defendants Parks and Hulburd, about this time, combined to
procure the assignment of the judgment to some other person
who, it was contended by them, could effect a settlement and
collection thereof. Hulburd thereupon applied to one Higginbotham, residing in Colorado, who was then, and at all times
had been, the agent of Baker in the prosecution of the suit,
to obtain an assignment by Baker to Hulburd, on the theory
that Hulburd with the aid of Parks could procure the levy of
a tax to pay the judgment. And Baker, on the recommendation of Higginbotham, executed an assignment of the judgment to Hulburd, couched in the following terms:
" LEVENWORTH, KANSAS, May 25th, 1886.
"For value received I hereby sell, assign, transfer, and set
over to E. M. Hulburd all my right, title, interest, claim, and
demand of, in, and to the within-described judgment and the
money due and to become due thereon, and authorize him to
sue for and collect the same at his own proper cost and expense.
" LUcIEN BAKER."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

This Baker forwarded to rigginbotham, with a declaration
of trust to be executed and delivered by Hulburd to Higginbotham for Baker on the delivery to him of the assignment,
which declaration was in the words and figures following:
"Whereas Lucien Baker has this 25th day of Mlay, 1886,
executed and acknowledged and delivered to me an assignment of his judgment against Lake county board of county
commissioners, Colorado, Gen. No. 1279, which said judgment
was rendered and recovered against the said board of county
commissioners of the county of Lake in the State of Colorado,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Colorado, on the 12th day of November, 1883, for $16,054.00;
and whereas such assignment is so made to me for convenience
in the collection of the same; and whereas said Lucien Baker
still retains as heretofore the ownership and control of said
judgment : Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises, I
do hereby acknowledge the receipt of such judgment as aforesaid this 28th day of May, 1886."
iulburd executed and delivered this instrument, and iigginbotham delivered Baker's assignment to fiulburd. Thereupon
llulburd delivered the assignment to Parks, who procured the
same to be filed with the papers in Baker's suit in the Circuit
Court on June 11, 1886, and the assignment was noted upon
the judgment docket of the court. About June 19, defendant
Seeley, acting for himself and defendant Wood, obtained from
Hulburd an assignment of the judgment from Hulburd to
Wood for the sum of $2500 then paid therefor. Hulburd
took the money and within a few days disappeared from the
State. The assignment was as follows:
"For value received I do hereby sell, assign, transfer, and
set over unto S. N. Wood, of Denver, Colorado, all of the
right, title, interest, claim, and demand which the plaintiff,
Lucien Baker, or I have of, in, and to the said judgment
above described, a transcript of which is hereto annexed, and
authorize and empower him, the said assignee, to collect the
same at his own proper cost and expense.
" E. M. IuLBURD."

BAKER v. WOOD.
Statement of the Case.

At the same time Hulburd executed and delivered to Seeley
a receipt in these words:
'1 LEADVILLE, COLO., ,Jne 19th, 1886.
"Received of N. P. Seeley, for S. N. Wood, twenty-five
hundred dollars in full payment of sum paid for judgment of
Lucien Baker against county of Lake, which judgment I hold
and own under an assignment from said Baker to me.
"E. . HULBURD."

It was conceded that the sale of the judgment by IHulburd
to Seeley and Wood was a fraud upon Baker, and Baker contended that Wood and Seeley had notice of the fraud and
were, in fact, parties to the transaction.
When Baker was informed of the alleged sale of the judgment, and about August 5, he called upon Wood and told him
that Hulburd had no right to sell the judgment; that it was
not his, and was only in his hands for collection. Wood
refused to talk with him about it, saying that he had bought
the judgment after having taken legal advice; that it was his;
that plaintiff could not get it without a law suit, and that if
he wanted a law suit to pitch in. On October 22, 1886, the
board of county commissioners passed an order accepting the
offer of Wood, assignee of the judgment, to discount from
the face of the same twenty-five per cent, in consideration
that the county should levy an annual tax of two mills on the
dollar to apply on account until the judgment was paid; and
directing the levy and collection of such tax and the payment
of the judgment to the extent of seventy-five per cent thereof.
Before this date the board had been notified by Baker that
the judgment still belonged to him.
The bill charged a combination between Wood, Seeley,
Parks, and Hulburd to defraud Baker of his judgment.
On hearing the Circuit Court dismissed the bill on the
ground, as is stated, that Baker, having clothed Hulburd with
the apparent ownership of the. judgment, was estopped from
asserting any interest therein as against Wood and Seeley, who

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

occupied the position of bona fide purchasers for value without notice.
r. Henry M. [eller, (with whom was Ar. Clinton Reed
on the brief,) for appellant.
Mr. Edward 0. Wolcott, (with whom were 3&ir. Joel F'
Thile and Xr'. Wfrilliam W. Field on the brief,) for appellees
Wood and Taylor.
AI.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
In King v. .Doane, 139 U. S. 166, 173, it was stated as the
general rule that "if in an action by an indorsee against the
maker, a negotiable note is shown to have been obtained by
fraud, the presumption, arising merely from the possession of

the instrument, that the holder in good faith paid value is so
far overcome that he cannot have judgment unless it appears
affirmatively from all the evidence, whether produced by the

one side or the other, that he in fact purchased for value,"
while if the fact is established that he did so, "he will be
entitled to recover unless it is proved that he purchased with
actual notice of defect in the title, or in bad faith, implying
guilty knowledge or wilful ignorance."
But in respect of the assignment of choses in action, not
negotiable, the assignee takes subject to the equities between
the debtor and the original creditor subsisting at the time of the
assignment, or when notice is received thereof. Where, however, equities between the original assignor and a subsequent
assignee, or entirely in favor of third persons are -involved,
and the unconditional power of disposition has been entrusted
by such assignor to his assignee, the principle of estoppel
applies in favor of purchasers in good faith, and without
notice. Judson,v. Corcoran, 17 How. 612, 615.
The effect of the assignifient of a judgment at common law
was merely to transfer an equitable title, and the assignee
was not authorized to bring an action thereon in his own

BAKER v. WOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

name. We are aware of no statute of Colorado permitting
the assignment of a judgment so as to vest title in the
assignee, but there is a provision in the Code of that State,
(Code Civ. Proc. ยง 3,) that suit should be brought in the name
of the real party in interest, and it is contended that the effect
of this is to unite the legal title with the equitable ownership in the instance of such an assignment. Nevertheless, the
question in this case is, whether the real owner of a judgment,
the plaintiff therein, must fail of relief as against an assignee
of that judgment, to whose assignor plaintiff had in form
assigned it, thereby furnishing him with the indicia of title,
because estopped to assert his ownership on the ground that
such second assignee occupies the position of a purchaser for
value in good faith and without notice, in reliance on the
apparent ownership. The fraud committed on complainant
by iHulburd is conceded, and the inquiry relates to the
defence of a valuable consideration, paid in good faith, and
without notice.
The amount of the consideration is under some circumstances important in determining whether within the rule on
the subject the purchaser paid value, for the amount paid may
be so disproportionate to the real value of the security purchased that the claim to have paid value will be treated as a
pretence and the security as having been obtained without paying anything for it; and it is also, and more commonly, important as bearing upon the question of notice and good faith.
King v. Doane, su2pra. Here the judgment was for $16,051,
with interest at ten per cent from November 12, 1883, and the
amount paid was $2500. While there was evidence tending
to show that the judgment was not worth its face, nevertheless the disproportion is so great as to form a significant element in the transaction. Moreover, it must be remembered
that iulburd was Baker's attorney, and had recovered the
judgment in question as such. When, therefore, the attorney
of record entertained, as his client's assignee, the offer of such
a sum, the law imposed upon the proposed purchasers the
burden of inquiry, and their conduct is to be tested accordingly.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Without attempting to recapitulate the evidence a brief
reference will suffice to indicate the ground for the conclusion
at which we have arrived. Seeley testified that Hulburd
had previously offered him the judgment for fifty or sixty
cents on the dollar; that he so informed Wood, and Wood
suggested its purchase, but he told Wood that Hulburd
talked too much; that be was absent from the State for a
time, and, on his return, Wood told him that he had just
closed the trade for the judgment, but that he had taken time
to look the matter up; and that he asked Seeley to investigate, and, if he found there was nothing wrong, to pay $2500
and take the judgment. The result of Wood's testimony is
that the only person who acted as his agent in buying the
judgment was Seeley, who was buying it for himself and
Wood. But Seeley also testified that before the purchase was
made: "I asked Hulburd, in so many words, before witnesses, 'Now, you know you are a little uncertain, and I want
you to tell me if there is any reason on the face of the earth
why you have not full power to dispose of this judgment and
whether it is not yours?' He said it was his, and went on to
explain why it was and how it came to be in his possession
and all that. He said he had worked for Higginbotham and
and
Barnes, had been in Barnes' litigation up there with others, which I knew to be a fact, and that they had paid
him but a very small sum; that for four years he had carried
on their business, and that Barnes settled with him out of this,
and the explanation looked as though there might be something in it. It was a good explanation to me. . . . He
said he had attended to their litigation there, and had lived
cheap, and had nothing and got along the best way he could,
and that he had always promised him that out of this he
should be paid."
Although the witness also claimed that he supposed Hulburd to be the absolute owner of the judgment, we think the
reasonable conclusion is that Hulburd represented that he held
it for the collection of fegs, which the receipt of $2500 might
be regarded as covering.
Granting, then, that Hulburd was clothed with apparent

CITY & LAKE RAILROAD v. NEW ORLEANS.

219

Statement of the Case.

ownership, yet that was qualified by the representation, and
the measure of the operation of the estoppel was limited
accordingly. The doctrine invoked is purely equitable and
ought not to be extended, under circumstances like these,
beyond permitting the person misled to recover indemnification. Campbell v. Nichols, 33 N. J. Law, 81, 88 ; Gr'issler v.
Powers, 81 N. Y. 57. The extent of the loss which Seeley
and Wood would sustain, if the truth of the representation
were denied, would be the money they had paid, and to that it
appears to us their interest in the judgment must be confined
in the most favorable view that can be taken of the position
they occupied. And, upon the whole, as Baker put it in the
power of Hulburd to act as he did, that result probably best
accords with the equities of the case. The assignments
should be cancelled and Wood and Seeley's administrator decreed to account for the amounts received, less the amount
paid, with interest.
Decree reversed and cause remanded with a directionto enter
a decreefor complainant in conformity with this opinion.

NEW ORLEANS CITY AND LAKE RAILROAD
COMPANY v. LOUISIANA ex rel. CITY OF NEW
ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 29. Submitted January 10, 1595. - Decided March 4, 1S95.

The act of the legislature of Louisiana of July 12, 1888, No. 133, authorizing the enforcement by mandamus without a jury of contracts by corporations with municipal corporations in that State with reference to
the paving, grading, repairing, etc., of streets, highways, bridges, etc.,
simply gives an additional remedy to the party entitled to the performance, without impairing any substantial right of the other party, does
not impair the obligation of the contract sought to be enforced, and is
not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States.

AT October term, 1890, a motion was made by -M!r. Samuel
1. Gilmore on behalf of the defendant in error to dismiss the

