STOKES v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

to dirt clinging to the skin of a potato, or clay, sand, or gravel
mixed with flaxseed, such impurities being plainly discoverable
and readily eliminated.
There was no error in the judgment of the court below and
it is, therefore,

Affirmed.
STOKES v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
SOUTHERN

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF ALABAIMA.

No. 746. Submitted March 4, 1S95.-Decided March 18, IS95.

In an indictment and prosecution under Rev. Stat. ยง 5480, as amended by
the act of March 2, 1889, c. 393, for a conspiracy to defraud by means
of the post office, three matters of fact must be charged in the indictment and established by the evidence: (1) That the persons, charged
devised a scheme to defraud; (2) that they intended to effect this
scheme by opening or intending to open correspondence with some other
person through the post office establishment or by inciting such other person to open communication with them; (3) and that in carrying out such
- scheme such person must have either deposited a letter or packet in the
post office, or taken or received one therefrom.
An objection to the admissibility of an envelope against the defendant in
such a case upon the ground that it was not shown to be in his handwriting is not sustained, as the bill of exceptions did not purport to
contain all the evidence.
Other objections to the admissibility of evidence considered and held to be
without merit.
When a paper admitted to be in the handwriting of a defendant in a
criminal prosecution is admitted in evidence for another purpose, it is
competent for the jury to compare it with the handwriting of a letter
which he is accused of, and indicted for, writing, for the purpose of
drawing their own conclusions respecting the latter.

Tris was an indictment against the defendant Stokes and
thirteen others for a conspiracy to commit the offence described in Rev. Stat. ยง 5480, of using the post office establishment of the United States for fraudulent purposes.
The artifice was described as one wherein each of the
defendants represented himself'as a dealer in various kinds of

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

merchandise, certifying each other to be financially responsible, and ordering merchandise from various parties, having
no intention of paying for the same.
Upon the trial Stokes and eight others were found guilty,
.and subsequently sentenced to fines and imprisonment.
Defendants thereupon sued out this writ of error.
r. JoAn D. Burnett for plaintiffs in error.
31r. Solicitor General for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTcE Bnowx delivered the opinion of the court.

Error is assigned to the action of the court in overruling
a demurrer to the indictment, and to the introduction of certain testimony.
1. The indictment is claimed to be defective in failing to
set out with sufficient certainty the agreement showing the
conspiracy. The indictment is for a conspiracy, Rev. Stat.
ยง 5440, to commit an offence described in section 5480, as
amended by the act of March 2, 1889, c. 393, 25 Stat. 873,
which reads as follows: "If any person having devised or
intending to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud
to be effected by either opening or intending to open correspondence or communication with any person, whether resident within or outside the United States, by means of the
Post Office Establishment of the United States, or by inciting
such other person or any person to open communication with
the person so devising or intending, shall, in and for executing
such scheme or artifice or attempting so to do, place or
cause to be placed, any letter
of the United States, .

.
.

.
.

. in any post office
or shall take or receive

any such therefrom, such person so misusing the Post Office
Establishment shall, upon conviction, be punishable," etc.
We agree with the defendant that three matters of fact
must be charged in the indictment and established by the
evidence. (1) That the persons charged must have devised
a scheme or artifice to defraud. (2) That they must have

STOKES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

intended to effect this scheme, by opening or intending to
open correspondence with some other persons through the
post office establishment, or by inciting such other person to
open communication with them. (3) And that, in carrying
out such scheme, such person must have either deposited a
letter or packet in the post office, or taken or received one
therefrom.
So also a conspiracy to commit such offence must state a
combination between the defendants to do the three things
requisite to constitute the offence. In this particular the
indictment charges that the defendants "did then and there
conspire, combine, confederate, anrd agree together to commit the act made an offence and crime by section 54,80
that is to say, the said defendants conspired
and agreed together in devising, and intending to devise, a
scheme and artifice to defraud various persons, firms, and
companies out of their property, goods, and chattels, and particularly to defraud, (here follows the names of certain individuals and firms,) and other persons, firms, and companies
to the grand jury unknown, of their goods and chattels."
Defendants' argument assumes that these are all the allegations of the agreement constituting the conspiracy, but the
indictment continues as follows: "The scheme and artifice to
defraud as aforesaid was to be carried out by each of said
defendants representing himself to be engaged as a dealer in
various kinds of merchandise and goods, and to have an office,
and to use in correspondence sheets of paper with his pretended business printed thereon; and the said defendants
were mutuallyto r'epresent each other to the said persons, firms,
and companies, and others unknown to the grand jurors,
intended to be defrauded as aforesaid, as financially responsible and entitled to receive various kinds of merchandise and
goods on credit, and the said scheme and artifice to defraud
as aforesaid was to be further effected by ordering merchandise
and goods from the persons, firms, and companies as aforesaid, and from other persons, firms, and companies to the
grand jurors unknown, having no intention, then and there,
to pay for such merchandise and goods so ordered as aforesaid,.

OCTOBER TERi,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

but to convert the said goods and merchandise to the use of
each and of each other."
We think this states with sufficient clearness the first requisite of an indictment, under section 5480, of a scheme or
artifice to defraud. The allegation is not of what was actually
don6, but of what the defendants conspired and intended to
do. The indictment continues: "That the post office establishment of the United States was to be used for the purpose
of executing such scheme and artifice to defraud, as aforesaid,
pursuant to said conspiracy, by opening correspondence with
the said persons, firms, and companies, and other persons,
firms, and companies unknown to the grand jurors, and by
inciting said persons, firms, and companies and others as
aforesaid to open correspondence with the said defendants* by
means of the post office establishment of the United States."
This is a sufficient allegation of the second requisite of the
offence. "And that, for the further purpose of executing
said conspiracy to defraud as aforesaid, the said J. T. Stokes
did wrongfully and unlawfully deposit in a certain post office
of the United States, to wit, the post office at Olivia, Conecuh
County, Alabama, in the Southern District of Alabama, on or
about the thirtieth day of November, eighteen hundred and
ninety-one, a letter addressed to Bion F. Reynolds, Brockton,
Massachusetts, which said letter was substantially in words
and figures as follows, to wit :" (Here follows a copy of a letter
ordering samples of shoes.) "And which said letter was then
and there enclosed in a sealed envelope, deposited in the post
office at Olivia as aforesaid, to be conveyed by the post office
establishnient of the United States to the said Bion F. Reynolds, and the said letter contained a check on Morris &
Company, bankers, Montgomery, Alabama, for eight and I'l
dollars, payable to the order of the said Reynolds, and the
amount of the said check was equal to the amount of merchandise and goods ordered by the said Stokes in the said letter from (to) said Reynolds; the said Stokes had no money
on deposit with the said Morris & Company, bankers, as
aforesaid, when he drew the enclosed said check; nor had he
funds deposited with said bankers at any time, but the send-

STOKES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ing of the said check was pursuant to the conspiracy aforesaid,
a scheme and artifice to defraud the said Bion F. Reynolds of
his goods and merchandise by not paying, and intending, then
and there, not to pay for the merchandise so ordered, but to
convert the same to the use of the said J. F. Stokes and other
defendants named as aforesaid."
The defendants are evidently in error in claiming that the
allegations of the conspiracy terminated with the first sentence
of the indictment, since the following sentence sets forth details of such conspiracy and what was further agreed to be
done, while the count terminates with the means actually used
to carry out the scheme. We think this count sufficiently
charges the offence, and as the residue of the indictment
merely sets forth other and similar fraudulent correspondence
by St6kes and other defendants, with other parties, by ordering goods with no intention of paying for them, and referring
the parties addressed to others of the defendants for their financial responsibility, the court did not err in overruling the demurrer. Indeed, it is difficult to see, nor do the defendants
suggest, what other allegations were necessary to define the
offence with greater clearness or certainty; and it is impossible that they could have been misled as to the nature of the
charge against them. The rules of criminal pleading do not
require the indictment to set forth the evidence, or to negative
every possible theory of the defence. Evans v. United States,
153 U. S. 584.
2. The second assignment alleges error in allowing the postal agent of the United States in service on a postal car in Alabama to testify as to certain envelopes found by him addressed
to various parties, and allowing such envelopes, with the indorsements and writings thereon, to go to the jury as evidence.
It appeared that all these envelopes were stamped "Olivia,
Jan. 7,1892, Ala. ;" that each one contained a printed request
to return to Stokes, to J. Pinkerton & Co., or to A. J. Kendrick, the last two of whom were defendants in the case, and
charged as co-conspirators with Stokes.
These envelopes were objected to upon the ground that the
handwriting of the address was not shown to be that of either

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of the defendants. But the bill of exceptions does not purport
to contain all the evidence that was offered to the jury, but
only such as was objected to; and for all that appears, the
letters that were contained in these envelopes were proven to
be in the handwriting of the defendants, or to have emanated
from them. These letters were the material facts to be
proved, and we are bound to assume that their authorship
was in some way or other traced to the defendants. If that
were so, the jury would be authorized to assume that the envelopes also emanated from them. There is nothing to indicate
that the letters contained in these envelopes were objected to,
or were inadmissible; and if these letters were written by the
defendants and found their way into the mail, the jury would
be authorized to infer that they were deposited in the mail by
the defendants, which would be enough to entitle th; envelopes themselves to admission.
3. That the court erred in allowing the order of T. B.
Brown, dated 12-6-91, to the freight agent at Greenville,
Alabama, to deliver freight to Mr. Kirkpatrick, and the paper
thereto attached, to be introduced in evidence to the jury.
Brown testified that E. H. Cook, one of the defendants,
ordered a box of shoes for him from W. L. Douglas & Co.,
Brockton, Massachusetts, and stated to the witness at the time
he made the order" Lets beat them," and soon after said order
was made, Cook informed the witness that the goods had come
and were in the warehouse at Greenville, Alabama. Soon
after this he got a message from Cook that the shoes were in
Cook's store at Garland. Witness never gave Cook any order;
(for the goods?) but there was other evidence that witness did
give Cook an order on the freight agent at Greenville, to "deliver my freight to Mr. Kirkpatrick." This order was admitted,
together with the receipt of the railroad company for a box
of merchandise, in the name of T. B. Brown, signed by
E. H. Cook, Garland, Alabama, a bill of lading showing that
W. L. Douglas had shipped a case of merchandise to Brown
at Greenville; and local freight way bills showing the shipment of the goods by Douglas, and their consignment to
E. H. Cook & Co.

STOKES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

As the indictment charges, as one of the acts in furtherance
of the conspiracy, that Brown deposited in the post office a
letter addressed to the Douglas Company, containing an application for an agency, and an order for shoes, which letter
purported to be signed by T. B. Brown, we see no objection
to the introduction of the order and the way bills of the railroads, as tending to show that the scheme was carried out as
charged in the indictment, and proven by the testimony of
Brown. They all relate to the facts alleged, and show that
the order to the Douglas Company was carried out by the receipt of the goods, and their subsequent delivery to Cook.
4. The court erred in allowing a certain credit statement,
dated January 1.7, 1891, and signed "A. J. Kendricli," to go
to the jury as evidence; aid (5) in allowing the district attorney to state in his argument to the jury "to take the letters
offered in evidence signed A. J. Kendrick, and the credit
statement, signed A. J. Kendrick, when they retired to make
up their verdict, and compare the two, and say whether one
and the same man wrote both papers." As these two assignments of error relate to the same item of testimony, they may
be properly considered together.
The bill of exceptions showed that Kendrick, one of the
defendants, went on the stand as a witness in his own behalf,
and was handed a credit statement purporting to have been
signed by him, and proved to have been received through the
post office by one of the parties to whom one of Kendrick's
letters was addressed. The statement purported to have been
made to the W. L. Douglas Shoe Company by A. 5. Kendrick,
for the purpose of satisfying the company of his ability to
pay, and with a view of opening and establishing a line of
credit with themi and purchasing goods of them. This statement showed assets to the value of $5800 and liabilities to
the amount of $930, leaving a surplus of $4870. The district
attorney asked Kendrick whether he wrote the same, or had
it written, to which he replied that he did not write the same
or have it written. The district attorney thereupon offered
the statement in evidence, and it was admitted under the
objection of the defendants.
VOL.

cLvi-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

As this statement was proved to have been received through
the post office by the parties to whom one of Kendrick's letters was addressed, and was taken from the post office, we
think it was competent for the jury to compare the handwriting of the letters, several of which were offered in evidence
and admitted by Kendrick to have been written and signed
by him, with the handwriting of the statement itself, and say
whether they both emanated from him.
In the case of loore v. United States, 91 U. S. 270, the
question was whether the Court of Claims could compare a
document purporting to have been executed by the claimant
with his signature to another paper in evidence for another
purpose-in the case, respecting which there seems to have been
no question, and from that comparison adjudge that the signature was his. In delivering the opinion Mr. Justice Bradley
observed: "The question is whether they" (the Court of
Claims) "may determine the genuineness of a signature by
comparing it with other handwriting of the party. By the
general rule of the common law this cannot be done either by
the court or a jury, and that is the general rule of this country.

.

.

.

But the general rule of the common law, disal-

lowing a comparison of handwriting as proof of signature,
has exceptions equally as well settled as the rule itself. One
of these exceptions is, that if a paper admitted to be in the
handwriting of the party, or to have been subscribed by him,
is in evidence for some other purpose in the case, the signature
or paper in question may be compared with it by the jury."
This case is cited with approval in Williams v. Conger, 125
U. S. 397, 14, in which it was held, that, while papers not
otherwise competent cannot be introduced for the mere purpose of enabling the jury to institute a comparison of handwriting, yet where other writings, admitted or proved to be
genuine, are properly in evidence for other purposes, the
handwriting of such instruments may be compared by the
jury with that of the instrument or signature in question, and
its genuineness inferred from such comparison. To the same
effect is Riek'oy v. United States, 151 T. S. 303. As the letters with which the comparison was made were admitted by

MORGAN v. POTTER.
Opinion of the Court.

Kendrick to have been written by him and were properly in
evidence, it was competent for the court to submit to the jury
the disputed statement, and to permit them to make a comparison and say wihether the same man wrote both papers.
The statement itself was clearly competent as bearing upon
the intent to defraud.
There was no error in the rulings of the court below, and
its judgment is, therefore,
Ajyirmed.

MORGAN v. POTTER.
CERTIFICATE

FRO31

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR

THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 690.Submitted November 19, 1S94.- Decided March 18, 1S95.

A guardian of an infant, appointed in one State, cannot maintain a suit in
the Circuit Court of the United States held within another State, to set
aside the appointment or to compel an account of a guardian previously
appointed in the latter State, except so far as authorized to do so by its
laws.
In a suit by an infant, by his next friend, the infant, and not the next
friend, must be made the plaintiff.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr.T. F. Garver for appellants.
-Mr. IWT . Rossington, J'r. B. F. Proctor,and Ab'. Charles
-BloodSmith for appellees.
MiR. JuSTIcE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill in equity, filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Kansas, by "J. E. Potter,
guardian of Robert Morgan, a resident and citizen of the State
of Kentucky and county of Warren, and Sarah Lee Williams,
as next friend of said Robert, a resident and citizen of the
same county and State," "against Henry Morgan, guardian of

