OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

We think the purpose of the statute, plainly conveyed by
its text, was to tax carpets as enumerated therein. That the
effect of its language and its intent were also to tax rugs,
made as rugs, and clearly distinguishable as such, by reason
of their process of manufacture, size, shape, pattern, etc., at
the duty imposed on rugs, but to tax rugs made from pieces
of carpets or carpetings at the rate imposed on the carpet
from which they were made, since, although answering the
purpose of a rug, they were really carpeting itself, being
made from parts or portions thereof. A construction contrary to that which we thus reach having been adopted by
the court below, its judgment is
R~eversed, and the case remanded with directions to granta
new trial.

FRISBIE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

S'IATES

FOR TIE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 811.

Argued aud submitted March 4, 155.- Decided March 1$, 1895.

The omission of the formal indorsement of an indictment as "a true bill,"
signed by the foreman of the grand jury, is not necessarily and under all
circumstances fatal, although it is advisable that the indictment should
be endorsed.
Such a defect is waived if the objection be not made in the first instance
and before trial.
Pleading to an indictment admits its genuineness as a record.
The provision in the act of-June 27, 1890, c. 634, 26 Stat. 182, forbidding an
agent, attorney, or other person engaged in preparing, presenting, or prosecuting a claim for a pension under that act from demanding or receiving a greater fee than ten dollars for his services is constitutional.
An indictment for violating that provision which describes the defendant
as a "lawyer" is sufficient.
The offence against that act is committed when a sum greater than ten
dollars has been taken, without regard to the fact whether the pension
money has or has not been received.
When the amount of the excess so taken is unknown to the grand jury, it
is proper to allege that fact in the indictment.

FRISBIE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
It is unnecessary to aver a demand for the return of the money wrongfully
taken.
The omission to charge that the offence was " contrary to the form of the
statutes in such case made and provided and against the peace anu(
dignity of the United States " is immaterial.

ON June 27, 1890, Congress passed an act, 26 Stat. 182,
c. 634, the fourth section of which is as follows:
"That no agent, attorney, or other person engaged in preparing, presenting, or prosecuting any claim under the provisions of this act shall, directly or indirectly, contract for,
demand, receive, or retain for such services in preparing, presenting, or prosecuting such claim a sum greater than ten
dollars, which sum shall be payable only upon the order of
the Commissioner of Pensions, by the pension agent making
payment of the pension allowed, and any person who shall
violate any of the provisions of this section, or who shall
wrongfully withhold from a pensioner or claimant the whole
or any part of a pension or claim allowed or due such pensioner or claimant under this act, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall, for each and
every such offence, be fined not exceeding five hundred dollars, or be imprisoned at hard labor not exceeding two years,
or both, in the discretion of the court."
Under this statute an indictment was returned to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, the first count of which was as follows:
"The grand jurors of the United States of America, duly
empannelled and sworn, in and for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, in the said Circuit Court, on their oath present
that Henry N. Frisbie, late of the Eastern District of Louisiana, lawyer, on the third day of January, A.D. eighteen hundred and ninety-four, at the city of New Orleans, in the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and within the jurisdiction of
this court, then and there being a person engaged in preparing, presenting, and prosecuting a claim for pension upon the
said United States -entitled
'An act granting pensions to
soldiers and sailors who are incapacitated for the performance
of manual labor, and providing for pensions to.widows, minor
VOL. CLVII-11

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

children, and dependent parents,' approved June 27, 1890, to
wit, a claim made by and on behalf of one Julia Johnson,
under the said act of Congress, as the widow of Lewis Johnson, deceased, late a soldier in the military service of the
United States during the war of the rebellion, to wit, a private in Co. C, 8t Reg., Co. B, 84 U. S. 0. V7ol. Inf., feloniously and wrongfully did violate the provisions of the fourth
section of the said act of Congress, in that he did then and
there feloniously and wrongfully demand, receive, and retain
of and from the said claimant, Julia Johnson, for his said services in preparing, presenting, and prosecuting her said claim
for pension aforesaid a sum of money greater than ten dollars, the exact amount thereof being to the jurors aforesaid
unknown."
To this indictment the defendant demurred "on the ground
that the lawv under which said indictment was found is unconstitutional and void, for the reason that Congress has no
power to regulate the price of labor nor*impair the obligation
of contracts. 2. That only the pensioner can make complaint. No case can be maintained unless affidavit is made
by pensioner. 3. Charge is not sustained by the claim set
out." The demurrer having been overruled he entered a plea
of not guilty; a trial was had which resulted in a verdict of
guilty. A motion for a new trial having been overruled, the
defendant was sentenced to imprisonment for three months.
To reverse such judgment he sued out this writ of error.
ALr. 0. B. Sansum for plaintiff in error submitted on his

brief.
Mir. Assistant Attorney General IFVhitney for defendants in
error.
M . JUSTICE BitEwER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Neither the testimony nor the instructions are preserved
in the record, and the only questions presented for our consideration arise on the indictment.

FRISBIE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

It is objected, in the first place, that the indictment lacks
the indorsement, "a true bill" as well as the signature of the
foreman of the grand jury. No objection was made on this
ground in the Circuit Court, either before or after the trial.
There is in the Federal statutes no mandatory provision
requiring such indorsement or authentication, and the matter
must, therefore, be determined on general principles. It may
be conceded that in the mother country, formerly at least,
such indorsement and authentication were essential. "The
indorsement is parcel of the indictment and the perfection of
it." Ring v. F ord, Yelv. 99. But this grew out of the practice which there obtained. The bills of indictment or formal
accusations of crime were prepared and presented to the
grand jury, who, after investigation, either approved or disapproved of the accusation, and indicated their action by the
indorsement, "a true bill" or " ignoramus," or sometimes, in
lieu of the latter, "not found," and all the bills thus acted
upon were returned by the grand jury to the court. In this
way the indorsement became the evidence, if not the only
evidence, to the court of their action. But in this country the
common practice is for the grand jury to investigate any
alleged crime, no matter how or by whom suggested to them,
and after determining" that the evidence is sufficient to justify
putting the party suspected on trial, to direct the preparation
of the formal charge or indictment. Thus they return into
court only those accusations which they have approved, and
the fact that they thus return them into court is evidence of
such approval, and the formal indorsement loses its essential
character. This matter is fully discussed by Beasley, C. J.,
in State v. Mlagrath,44 N. J. Law, 227,228; by Moncure, President of the Court of Appeals, in Pq'ice v. Commonwealt/t, 21
Grat. 846, 856 ; and by Merrick, J., in Commonwealth v. Smyth,
11 Cush. 473, 474, the latter saying, "this omission in an
indictment is simply the omission of a form, which, if oftentimes found convenient and useful, is in reality immaterial
and unimportant." . In each of these cases it was held by
the court that the lack of the indorsement was not necessarily and under all circumstances fatal to the indictment. In

OCTOBER TERIM1, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

1 Bish. Crim. Proc. sec. 700, it is said: "In the absence of a
mandatory statute, it is the better view that both the words
'a true bill' and the signature of the foreman may be dispensed with, if the fact of the jury's finding appears in any
other form in the record." See also State v. Creighton, 1
Nott & McC. 256; State v. Cox, 6 Ired. (Law) 440. In Ga'dner v. People, 3 Scarninon, 83, 87, the court held that the signature of the foreman, though a statutory requirement, would
be presumed if the indictment was recorded.
Tevertheless, as it is not an unvarying rule for the grand
jury to return into court only the indictments which they
have found, it is advisable, at least, that the indictment be
endorsed according to the ancient practice, for such indorsement is a short, convenient, and certain method of informing
the court of their action.
The defect, however, is waived if objection is not made in
the first instance and before trial, for it does not go to the
substance of the charge, but only to the form in which it
is presented. There is a general unanimity of the authorities
to this effect. In State v. Agnew, 52 Arkansas, 275, it was
held that a statute requiring an indorsement of "a true bill"
signed by the foreman was directory; that objection to a lack
of such indorsement was waived unless made before pleading.
In MeGqie v. State, 17 Georgia, 497, while holding that the
usual practice of indorsement was advisable, the court said
that the objection on account thereof was "an exception
which goes rather to the form than to the merits of the proceeding," and too late after trial. See also State v. .hferten,,
14 Missouri, 94; State v. .Xmujpky, 47 Missouri, 274; State v.
Shippey, 10 Minnesota, 223; People v. Johnston,48 California,
549; and IWau-kon-ehaw-neek-law v. United States, iMorris,
(Iowa), 332.
In this connection reference may be made to section 1025,
Rev. Stat., which reads:
"No indictment found and presented by a grand jury in
any district or circuit or other court of the United States shall
be deemed insufficient, nor shall the trial, judgment, or otherproceeding thereon be affected by reason of any defect or in-

FRISBIE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

perfection in matter of form only, which shall not tend to the
prejudice of the defendant."
The indorsement was no part of the charge against the defendant. If no indictment had in fact been found by the
grand jury - in other words, if there was no legal accusation
against him - the defendant should have objected on this
ground when the court called upon him to plead to this which
it assumed to have been properly presented to it. "The very
fact of pleading to it admits its genuineness as a record." State
v. Clarkson, 3 Alabama, 378, 383. Instead of denying the existence of any legal accusation, the defendant demurred to it
on the ground of insufficiency, thus abandoning all question of
form and challenging only the substance. When the demurrer
was overruled he entered a plea of not guilty, and that being
determined against him by the verdict of the jury, he interposed a motion for a new trial and one in arrest of judgment,
without ever suggesting to the court that there was before it
no indictment returned by the grand jury of the district. The
objection, now for the first time made, comes too late. Whatever action the Circuit Court might have been compelled to
take if the matter had been called to its attention in the first
instance, the defect is not one which goes to the substance of
the accusation, and will not now avail.
A second objection, insisted upon now as it was by demurr
rer to the indictment, is that the act under which the indictment was found is unconstitutional, because interfering with
the price of labor and the freedom of contract. This objection
also is untenable. While it may be conceded that, generally
speaking, among the inalienable rights of the citizen is that of
the liberty of contract, yet such liberty is not absolute and
universal. It is within the undoubted power of government
to restrain some individuals from all contracts, as well as all
individuals from some contracts. It may deny to all the right
to contract for the purchase or sale of lottery tickets; to the
minor the right to assume any obligations, except for the
necessaries of existence; to the common carrier the power to
make any contract releasing himself from negligence, and, indeed, may restrain all engaged in any employment from any

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

contract in the course of that employment which is against
public policy. The possession of this power by government
in no manner conflicts with the proposition that, generally
speaking, every citizen has a right freely to contract for the
price of his labor, services, or property.
The pension granted by the government is a matter of
bounty. "No pensioner has a vested legal right to his pension.
Pensions are the bounties of the government, which Congress
has the right to give, withhold, distribute, or recall, at its disUnited States v.
Malton v. Cotton, 19 How. 355."
cretion.
Teller, 107 U. S. 64, 68.
Congress being at liberty to give or withhold a pension, may
prescribe who shall receive it, and determine all the circumstances and conditions under which any application therefor
shall be prosecuted. No man has a legal right to a pension, and
no man has a legal right to interfere in the matter of obtaining
pensions for himself or others. The whole control of that
matter is within the domain of Congressional power. United
States v. Hall, 98 U. S. 343. Iaving power to legislate on
this whole matter, to prescribe the conditions under which
parties may assist in procuring pensions, it has the equal
power to enforce by penal provisions -compliance with its
requirements. There can be no reasonable question of the
constitutionality of this statute. Again, it is claimed that the indictment is defective in that
it describes the defendant as a lawyer and not as an agent or
attorney. Of course, the use of the word "lawyer" is not
significant; it is a mere descriptiope)-sonw. The language of
the statute is "no agent, attorney, or other person engaged in
preparing," etc. The indictment charges that" defendant then
and there being a person engaged in preparing, presenting, and
prosecuting a claim for pension upon the said United States
by and on behalf of one Julia Johnson." It is immaterial what was his regular profession or avocation. It is
sufficient that if even temporarily he engaged in the work of
'preparing, presenting, and prosecuting a claim for a pension.
Doing that he brings himself within the requirements of the
statute, and it is enough to charge that he was so engaged,

FRISBIE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

and that whilst so engaged he did demand, receive, and retain
more than the sum which by the statute he was permitted
to do.
It is further objected that there is no averment that Julia
Johnson, named in the indictment, was a pensioner of the
United States, or that any money of any kind or character
was ever paid, to defendant for her, or that any money was
ever paid to any person for her. It is insisted that the purpose of the statute is to protect pension money only, and that
until pension money is received the agent or attorney is not
within the reach of the statute. We do not so understand it.
The guilt or innocence of the defendant does not turn on the
question whether he is or is not successful in obtaining the
pension which he is applying for, nor whether he takes
the sum in excess of ten dollars out of the particular pension
money received by the applicant. • The scope of the statute
and the evident purpose of Congress are to prevent an applicant for pension from being mulcted any sum above ten dollars by any one assisting in the matter. Language expressing
such intention cannot be clearer than that used.
To the objection that the amount of the excess over ten dollars demanded, received, and retained by the defendant is not
stated, and that any sum, even one cent, would satisfy the
averment, it is sufficient to reply that if the amount of
the excess was unknown it was proper to allege that fact in the
indictment, and, in the absence of any testimony to the contrary, it will be presumed that the amount of the excess was,
in fact, unknown to the grand jury. Ooifin v. United States,
156 U. S. 432. The question of the guilt of the defendant
does not depend on the amount of the excess. The rule
de minimis non ourat lex has no such application in criminal
cases. The stealing of one cent is larceny as truly as the
stealing of a thousand dollars. The amount may vary the
degree, but it does not change the character of the crime.
It is further urged that the indictment nowhere alleges that
any demand was made upon the defendant for the return of
the money wrongfully received and retained by him. No
such demand need be averred. The case of United,States v.

OCTOBER

TERlE, 1894.

Opinion of the Court.

levine, 98 U. S. 450, is not in point. There the charge was
of wrongfully withholding pension money, and it was in refer"In short, there
ence to such charge that the court said
must be such unreasonable delay, some refusal to pay on
demand, or some such intent to keep the money wrongfully
from the pensioner, as would constitute an unlawful withholding in the meaning of the law."
The charge of wrongfully withholding implies the possibility, at least, of a rightful receipt, and the offence consists
in failing to turn over to the proper party that which has
been thus received. But the charge here is of demanding,
receiving, and retaining. It implies that there was wrong in
the original exaction, and it is unnecessary to aver a demand
upon the defendant to undo such' wrong. If he wrongfully
demanded and received and still retains the sum so demanded
and received, the offence is complete.
So far as respects the objection that the count does not conclude that the offence charged was "contrary to the form of
the statutes in such case made and provided, and against the
peace and dignity of the United States," it is sufficient to say
that such allegation, which is one of a mere conclusion of law,
is not of the substance of the charge, and the omission is of a
matter of form, which does not tend to the prejudice of the
defendant, and is, therefore, within the rule of section 1025
Rev. Stat., to be disregarded.
These are the only matters of objection to this indictment.
No one of them is tenable, and, therefore, the judgment is
-Affirmed.

SHIELDS v. COLEMAN.
APPEAL FROM TiE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. W93. Submitted January 7, 1595.-Decided M[arch 1S, 1595,

The court below, in its order granting the appeal, said: "This appeal is
granted solely upon the question of jurisdiction" and made further pro-

