OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

out February 16, 1894. It does not appear by the record,
but is conceded by counsel, that a writ of error was taken to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, and
dismissed for want of jurisdiction. 60 Fed. Rep. 465. The
jurisdiction of this court is invoked upon the ground that the
only question in the case was as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, but that question was not certified to this court by
the Circuit Court for decision, and the writ of error must be
dismissed upon the authority of Iaynarcd v. IHeeh, 151 U. S.
324; Colvin v. Jacksonville, ante, 368, and cases cited.
5ri4t of error dihmdxsed.
TREAT

HANUFACTURING COMPANY v. STANDARD STEEL AND IRON COMHPANY.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
N(,. ;3,3.

Submnitted Mar,4h 25i,1595. -

necided April

$, 1I95.

Where the trial judge is satisfied upon the evidence that the plaintiff is not
entitled to recover, and that a verdict, if rendered for plaintiff, must be
set aside, the court may instruct the jury to find for the defendant, and
in such case no constitutional question arises; but if the court errs as
matter of law in so doing, the remedy lies in a review in the appropriate
court.

MOTION

to dismiss. The case is stated in the opinion.

.-31. Charles IF Xeedham, .J&. Williaa G. Beale, and -Mr.
.EdwelrdS. ksha for the motion.
2.

oTohn S. Cooper and 3r. George H. Shields opposing.

Tim CHIEF JUSTICE: This was an action of trespass on the
case. At the conclusion of the trial defendants moved the
court to charge the jury to find the issues for defendants,
which motion was granted, and the jury was directed, upon
the whole case, to return a verdict for defendants, plaintiff
duly excepting. Thereupon the jury returned a verdict accordingly; plaintiff moved for a new trial, which was denied,

ALLEN v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

and judgment was given against plaintiff on the verdict.
This judgment was rendered December 3, 1890. The writ
of error from this court was brought November 24, 1891.
The only ground relied on to sustain the jurisdiction of this
court is that the case "involves the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States;" because plaintiff in error was deprived of the right of trial by jury. But
it is well settled that where the trial judge is satisfied upon
the evidence that the plaintiff is not entitled to recover, and
that a verdict, if rendered for plaintiff, must be set aside, the
court may instruct the jury to find for the defendant. G 'and
Chute v. ]inegar, 15 Wall. 355 ; 3rarion County v. Clark, 94
U. S. 278; ilerbert v. Butler, 97 U. S. 319.
If the court errs as matter of law in so doing, the remedy
lies in a review in the appropriate court.
rit
r of ervor dismissed.

ALLEN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 78S.Submitted March 4, 1895. - Decided April S,1895.

In a trial for murder by shooting with a pistol it appeared that the accused
and the deceased had had difficulties; that the accused, knowing that lie
was to meet the deceased, had armed himself with a pistol; that when
they met the deceased and his companions were armed with sticks; that
an altercation ensued which resulted in the shooting; and the evidence
was conflicting as to who had made the first attack. The court, under
exception, instructed the jury as follows: "Now, gentlemen, these are
the three conditions which I give you in the case. I have told you that
if it is true that this defendant went up on one side of the fence and
when there struck Philip Henson in the month and then shot him, that
is murder. On the other hand, if it is true that Henson and the other
boys attacked him with sticks, and while that attack was going on and
in the heat of that affray, and the sticks were not of a dangerous or deadly
character, and under such circumstances he shot and killed Philip Henson,
that would be manslaughter; but if there was an absence of that condition, then there is no manslaughter in it, nor could there be any selfdefence in it. There could be nothing else but this distinct grade of
crime known as murder; because self-defence, as I have before defined

