LAST CHANCE MIIN. CO. v. TYLER MIN. CO.

683

Syllabus.

"To which refusal and charge of the court and the exclusion
of evidence offered, and to the action of the court in refusing
a new trial, plaintiff excepted and tendered this bill of exceptions, which was signed and sealed by the court and ordered
to be made a part of the record in this cause." This exception
was insufficient. Rule 4 ; Rogers v. ie -Marshal, 1 Wall.
644; Harvey v. Tyler, 2 Wall. 328; Insurance Co. v. Sea, 21
Wall. 158; Beaver v. Taylor, 93 U. S. 46; Block v. Darling,
140 U. S.234, 238.
Judgment affirmed.

LAST

CHANCE

MINING COMPANY
MINING COMPANY.

v.

TYLER

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
CIRCUIT.
No. 6-1.

NINTH

Argued March 6, 7, 1895. - Decided April 15, 1895.

When the course of a mineral vein is across a claim, instead of in the direction of its length, the side lines of the location of the claim become, in
law, the end lines, and the end lines become the side lines.
When the jurisdiction of a controversy by a court is unquestioned, and the
cause proceeds to final judgment, and no review is sought for, the
judgment is conclusive upon the parties to the suit as to the matters
decided, but not as to matters which might have been decided, but
were not.
In an action, brought under the provisions of Rev. Stat. §§ 2324, 2325, by an
adverse claimant to a part of a mineral claim as located, the plaintiff
alleged a priority of location, and rested his right to recover upon it.
The defendant answered, but subsequently and before judgment withdrew his answer, and amended his application for a patent so as to exclude the tract in controversy.
At the trial the defendant did not
appear, but the plaintiff introduced evidence, oral and documentary.
The court made a finding of fact that the tract in controversy had already been located by the plaintiff as a part of his mining claim when
the defendant located his claim upon it, and that, consequently, it was
not subject to location by the defendant. Upon that finding it was
adjudged that, by reason of the law and premises, the plaintiff was the
owner of the disputed tract, that he was entitled to the possession of it,
and that he recover possession of it from the defendant. Held,
(1) That it appeared by the record that the court had in that case
passed upon and determined the question of priority of location,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1894.
Statement of the Case.
and upon such determination had given judgment in favor of
the plaintiff;
(2) That the defendant's withdrawal of his answer did not operate to
take the complaint out of the case, or the allegations of fact contained in it, or to prevent a judicial determination of those facts;
(3) That the abandonment of his claim by the defendant did not take
the jurisdiction for the settlement of the question out of the hands
of the court, or restore it to the Land Department;
(4) That the judgment of the court was in all respects regular; was conclusive as to the particular ground in controversy; and was binding by way of estoppel as to every fact necessarily determined by
it, including the question of priority of location.
Findings of fact in such cases, even when no statute provides for making
them, are a declaration by the court of the matter which it determines,
and are conclusive as to it in subsequent controversies between the
parties.
A judgment by default is just as conclusive an adjudication between the
parties of whatever is essential to support the judgment, as one rendered
after answer and contest; and in such case facts are not open to further
controversy if they are necessarily at variance with the judgment on the
pleadings.
In view of the conclusions reached, it is not necessary to consider what
extra-territorial rights (if any) exist when a vein enters at an end line,
and passes out at a side line.

Ox August 8, 1891, the Tyler Mining Company brought its
action in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Idaho to recover of the Last Chance Mining Company and
others the possession of a certain portion of a mineral vein, as
well as the value of the ores theretofore taken from the vein
by ihe defendants. After disclaimer by two and answer by
the Last Chance Mining Company and other defendants, tile
case came on for trial. In this there was a verdict and judgment for the defendants. This judgment was reversed on error
by the Court of Appeals of the -inth Circuit, and a new trial
ordered. 7 U. S. App. 463; 54 Fed. Rep. 284. At the February term, 1893, of the Circuit Court for the District of Idaho
the new trial directed by the Court of Appeals was had, and
resulted in a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff. On error
to the Court of Appeals this judgment was, on April 2, 1894,

affirmed, 61 Fed. Rep. 557, whereupon, on application of the
defendants, the case was brought to this court by writ of
ceriWoari.

LAST CHANCE AiIN. CO.

'V.

TYLEIt, AMIN. CO.

Statement of the Case.

The following diagram, taken substantially from the first
opinion of the Court of Appeals, fully illustrates the situation
of the respectiw claims:
.1

Direction of dip is to south.

The controversy is between the owners of the Tyler claim
and those of the Last Chance claim. As appears from the
diagram the Tyler claim as originally located (1, 2, 3, 4) conflicts with the Last Chance claim (7, 8, 9, 10) in the triangular
On April 19, 1887, the owners of the
piece marked "A."
Tyler claim made application for a patent for the entire claim
as thus originally located. To this application the owners of
the Last Chance claim filed, under the authority of sections
2324 and 235, Revised Statutes, an adverse claim to the conflicting ground "A," and thereafter commenced the required
action in the District Court of the First Judicial District of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

Idaho Territory. In that action the owners of the Tyler
claim appeared and filed answer, but when the case was called
for trial the answer was withdrawn and a judgment entered
in favor of the plaintiffs. No reason for this withdrawal
appears in the record of the proceedings of the District Court,
but the testimony in this case shows that pending those proceedings the owners of the Tyler claim amended their application for purchase in the Land Department by excluding
therefrom the territory marked on the diagram 3, 4, 5, 6, thus
leaving their application only for territory outside the boundaries of the Last Chance claim.
At the first trial in the Circuit Court the record of this
judgment in the District Court was admitted in evidence for
the purpose of showing that the Last Chance claim had priority of location over the Tyler claim. On review in the
Court of Appeals its admission was adjudged error, and
by reason thereof the judgment of the Circuit Court was
reversed. On the second trial in the latter court the record
was again offered but was excluded, and this ruling was sustained by the Court of Appeals.
According to the original location of the Tyler claim the
lode entered through an end line (1, 2), but passed out through
a side line (2, 3), and did not touch the end line (3, 4). Under
the amended location it passed througl two parallel end lines
(1, 2, and 5, 6). The amended application was accepted by
the land office, and a final certificate for the tract with the
reduced boundaries was issued to the owners of the claim.
Within the vertical planes of the end lines (1, 2, and 5, 6)
extended,the ore bodies in dispute are found, and the dip of
the vein being in that direction it was held that the owners of
the Tyler claim were entitled to follow the vein on its dip
beyond the side line (2, 6), and took these ore bodies as a part
of the vein thus followed.
iMr. F B. Jleyburn and Xi. C. S. Foorhees for plaintiffs in
error.
iltr. A'thur Brown, and .Mi'. ohn Rt. . kBridle for defendant in error.

LAST CHAN-CE MIN. CO. v. TYLER MIN. CO.

687

Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUsTICE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The course of this vein is across the Last Chance claim
instead of in the direction of its length. Under those circumstances the side lines of that location become the end lines,
and the end the side lines. Mining Company v. Tar'bet, 98
U. S. 463; Argentine -Mining Company v. Terrible Mining
Co., 122 U. S. 448; King v. Amy &c. Mining Co., 152 U. S.
222.
On the assumption that the action of the owners of the
Tyler claim, in excluding from their application a portion of
their claim, was legal, obviously the priority of location
becomes a pivotal question. For, while the disputed ore is on
the dip of the vein within the extended vertical planes of the
end lines of the Tyler claim, it is also within the legal end
lines of the Last Chance claim, and on the dip of the vein as
it .passes through that claim. Naturally, therefore, the controversy in the Circuit Court was upon the priority of location. The judgment of the District Court in the adverse suit
having been excluded from evidence, parol testimony was
admitted for the purpose of determining this priority, and the
question of fact arising on such parol testimony was settled
by the jury in favor of the owners of the Tyler claim. Was
the judgment of the District Court in the adverse suit properly excluded? The law in respect to estoppel by judgment
is well settled, and the only difficulty lies in the application of
the law to the facts. The particular matter in controversy in
the adverse suit was the triangular piece of ground, which is
not the matter of dispute in this action. The judgment in
that case is therefore not conclusive in this as to matters
which might have been decided, but only as to matters which
were in fact decided. Hfopkins v. Lee, 6 Wheat. 109; Smith
v. Yfernochen, 7 How. 198; Pennington v. Gibson, 16 How.
65; Stockton v. Ford, 18 How. 418; Washington &c. Steam
Packet Co. v. Sickles, 24 How. 333; S. C. 5 Wall. 580; Lessee
of Parrish v. Ferris, 2 Black, 606; Cromwell v. County of
Sao, 94 U. S. 351; -Davis v. Brown, 94 U. S. 423; Russell v.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

Place, 94 U. S. 606; Campbell v. Rankin, 99 U. S. 261; Lumber Co. v. Buchtel, 101 U. S. 638; Stout v. Lye, 103 U. S. 66;
11'esbit v. River.side Independent District,144 U. S. 610: Joohnson £omiapany v. Wharton, 152 U. S. 252.
The action in the District Court was brought in compliance
with the express provisions of the act of Congress. The jurisdiction of the court is unquestioned, and the parties to the controversy are the same. The question then is, what was in fact
decided in that action? Turning to the complaint we find
that it states the boundaries of the Last Chance claim; alleges
that on September 17, 1885, certain named parties duly located
such claim, and that at the time of and prior to such location
the ground described "was vacant and unoccupied and a part
of the public domain of the United States, and the mineral
lands thereof." It further describes the particular acts which
were done in making the location; avers the conveyance of
the title by the locators to the plaintiffs ; their continued performance of the necessary work; the application on April 19.
1887, of the Tyler Mining Company for a patent for the Tyler
claim; the conflict between the two claims in respect to the
triangular piece of ground; the filing of an adverse claim by
plaintiffs ; that "said adverse claim was duly allowed by the
register of said land office, and all proceedings on said application for patent on the part of the claimants therefor were
by the register ordered to be stayed until the controversy as
to the right of possession shall have been settled by a court of
competent jurisdiction;" and that the action was "brought in
support of the protest and adverse claim so filed by the plaintiffs to determine the right of possession of the tract of ground
by metes and bounds last hereinbefore described." The prayer
was that the plaintiffs "be adjudged to be owners of and
entitled to the possession of the said tract of mining ground
by metes and bounds last hereinbefore described as a part of
the hereinbefore mentioned and described Last Chance mining
claim," and for costs.
The scope of the answer filed by the owners of the Tyler
claim is not disclosed. It only appears that having filed an
answer they withdrew it. When the case came on for trial,

LAST CHANCE MIN. CO. v. TYLER MIN. CO.

689

Opinion of the Court.

the defendants. not appearing, the plaintiffs, as the record
shows, introduced evidence, oral and documentary. The court
made certain findings of fact, which findings corresponded
generally with the allegations of the complaint. Among
them was this, "that at the time the said Tyler mining claim
was located that portion of the ground so in conflict as aforesaid had been located as a part of the Last Chance mining
claim, and was not subject to location by the locators of the
Tyler mining claim;" and as a conclusion of law it ruled
"that the plaintiff above named, the Last Chance Mining
Company, is the owner of the ground and a portion of the
mining claim described in the complaint herein as in conflict
between the said Last Chance mining claim and the Tyler
mining claim, by virtue of a valid location of the said Last
Chance mining claim made by John Flaherty, J. L. Smith,
M. Carlin, and John M. IBurke on the 17th day of September,
1885; and that the plaintiff is entitled to the possession of the
said ground so in conflict as aforesaid by virtue of such valid
location."
Upon these findings and conclusion a judgment was
entered, which recites: "Therefore, by reason of the law
and premises aforesaid, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed
that the Last Chance Mining Company, the plaintiff above
named, is the owner of, and, by virtue of a valid location of a
mining claim called the Last Chance, made on the (1'7th)
seventeenth day of September, A.D. 1885, by John 'Flaherty,
J. L. Smith, M. Carlin, and John TNI. Burke, is entitled to the
possession and the right of possession of all that piece or
portion of said mining claim in the complaint herein described," (here follows a description of the triangular piece
" A ") "containing an area of 1.4,74 acres of ground, and the
plaintiff do have and recover the possession and right of
possession of said premises from defendant, the Tyler Mining
Company."
Thus it appears that the complaint alleges a priority of
location, and upon that rests the right to recover. The
existence of the Tyler location as a location is not challenged
either expressly or by implication. Indeed, the complaint
VOL. CLVii-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

proceeds upon the assumption of its validity. The findings
are express as to priority, and contain no suggestion of any
defect in the Tyler claim, or any fact in favor of plaintiff's
right other than that of priority of location, while the con.
elusion of law and the judgment recite and adjudge a valid
location of the Last Chance mining claim on September 17,
1885, and a right of possession by virtue thereof. Upon the
record taken as a whole there can be no escape from the conclusion that the court determined the question of priority of
location, and upon this rendered judgment for the plaintiffs.
What is there to impeach this conclusion?
It is said that the statutes of Idaho do not provide for
findings of fact in a case like this, and that therefore the
recitals in such findings must be ignored. If it be true that
the statutes of Idaho do not authorize findings of fact, it is
none the less true that such findings are a declaration by the
court of the matter it determines. Even if not conclusive
as against all testimony, they are certainly very persuasive
evidence of what the court did in fact decide. In .number
company v. Bffc1hte, &upra,the judgment relied upon as an
estoppel was based upon a finding of a referee, and it was
said: "This finding having gone into the judgment is conclusive as to the fact found in all subsequent controversies
between the parties on the contract. Every defence requiring
the negation of this fact is met and overthrown by that
adjudication."
In Legrand v. Riorey's Administrators, 83
Virginia, 862, 877, it appeared that the pleadings and judgment left a doubt as to the precise matter decided. Reference
to an opinion of the trial court, for the purpose of making
certain that which otherwise was uncertain, was approved.
We quote from the Supreme Court of Appeals:
"In the case at bar, the trial judgeftled wi the )apers ;n
the cause his reasons for his decision, which the decree itself
shows was done for the express purpose of explaining his
decision. This being the case, the opinion of the trial judge
thus referred to in the decree becomes a part of the record,
and may be looked to, and is even more reliable to explain, in
doubtful cases, what was in issue and what was determined,

LAST CHANCE MIN. CO. v. TYLER MIN. CO.

691

Opinion of the Court.

than mere extrinsic evidence to the same end. We do not
mean that the mere opinion of the trial judge, which may
happen to be in writing and copied into the record, constitutes
a part thereof; but we do say that where the decree-as in
this case - refers to the opinion of the trial judge in terms
that make it clear that the object was to refer to it to explain
what was determined, and the reasons therefor, then such
opinion becomes legitimately a part of the record, and must
be looked to to explain what was in issue and what was
determined by the judgment or decree in question. See
Burton v. ilills, 18 Virginia, 468, at p. 470."
But if we ignore the findings altogether and look simply
at the judgment and the complaint, this will appear: The
single ground stated in the complaint upon which superiority
of right is claimed is priority of location. A judgment for
the plaintiffs upon such a complaint is necessarily an adjudication in favor of that priority of location. There is no other
fact upon which it can rest. It is doubtless true, as suggested,
that other questions may be litigated in an adverse suit, but
they can be litigated only when they are presented to the
attention of the court by some appropriate pleading. The
only pleading upon which the case passed to trial and judgment was the complaint, and in that, as we have seen, plaintiff's right to recover is rested upon the single fact of priority
of location.
It is said that the defendants did not contest; that they
withdrew their answer, and that there was only a judgment
by default. But a judgment by default is just as conclusive
an adjudication between the parties of whatever is essential
to support the judgment as one rendered after answer and
contest.
The essence of estoppel by judgment is that there has been
a judicial determination of a fact, and the question always is,
has there been such determination, and not upon what evidence
or by what means was it reached. A failure to answer is
taken as an admission of the truth of the facts stated in the
complaint, and the court may properly base its determination
on such admission. Suppose the defendant files a denial, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

on the trial the only evidence is the testimony of a witness
to an admission made by the defendant out of court, and upon
such testimony the judgment is rendered. Is it any the less
a judicial determination because resting simply upon proof of
the defendant's admission, and yet in principle what distinguishes that case from this? In each the judgment is resting
upon an admission of the party against whom the judgment is
rendered, and does it make any difference in what form that
admission is presented to the judge? In 1 Freeman on Judgments, 4th ed.. section 330, the author says, citing many authorities in support thereof: "-Upon principle, we think that
the denial of a fact subsequently judicially established ought
not to impart to an adjudication any greater effect than if all
the parties had expressly or impliedly admitted the fact to he
beyond controversy when such adjudication was made ; and
this is the view taken by the greater portion of the American
courts." Among the authorities cited is lNrashville &e. Railway v. Un ited States, 113 U. S. 261, in which a decree in equity
by consent of parties was held to bar a subsequent suit on
any claim included in the decree. Bigelow, in his work on
Estoppel (p. 77), closes a discussion of the question with this
observation: "The meaning simply is that judgment by default, like judgment on contest, is conclusive of what it actually professes to decide as determined from the pleadings;
in other words, that facts are not open to further controversy
if they are necessarily at variance with the judgment on the
pleadings." Blrown v. JZkyor, 66 N. Y. 385 ; Blair v. Burglet, 75 N. Y. 150; i.emetly v. Naylor, 100 N. Y. 5f32; Orr
v. Jlereee Cotty -as. Co., 114 Penn. St. 3S7.
The withdrawal by defendants of their answer may have
prevented any judicial determination as to the special facts set
up therein in defence or avoidance of plaintiff's claim. Finneganm v. Campbell, 74 Iowa, 158. But such withdrawal was
not operative to take out of the case the complaint, or the
allegations of fact therein contained, or to prevent a judicial
determination of those facts.
But further, it is contended that the action of the owners
of the Tyler claim in amending their application, coupled with

LAST CHANCE MIN. CO. v. TYLER MIN. CO.

693

Opinion of the Court.

the withdrawal of their answer, took them entirely out of the
case in the District Court. It is said that they had abandoned
all claim to the property theretofore in controversy: that they
were really no longer parties to the action, and that it remained simply a case pending between the owners of the Last
Chance and the United States. Such seems to have been the
view taken by the Court of Appeals when it held that the
judgment was improperly admitted in evidence. We are
unable to concur in this view. It may well be doubted
whether the amendment filed in the land office had any force
or effect during the pendency of the action in the District
Court. Section 2326 provides that after the filing of the
adverse claim, "all proceedings, except the publication of
notice and making and filing of the affidavit thereof, shall
be stayed until the controversy shall have been settled or decided by a court of competent jurisdiction, or the adverse
claim waived." As said by this court in Richmond Xining
company v. Rose, 114 U. S. 576, 585, referring to the action
of the officers of the department pending proceedings ill
court, "after the decision they are governed by it. Before
the decision, once the proceeding is initiated, their function
is suspended."
It is suggested by counsel that the abandonment by the
owners of the Tyler location of any claim to the disputed territory was in effect a waiver of the adverse claim within the
language of the statute, on the happening of which the right
of the land office to proceed was restored. But that is not
within the letter, even if within the spirit of the statute. The
adverse claim is the claim made by the party opposing the
application, and the party to waive a claim is the one who
makes it. The obvious meaning is that when an adverse claim
is filed - that is, a claim filed by some one opposing the application in whole or in part- the proceedings in the land office
shall be stayed until the determination of the dispute by the
court in which the action is brought, or the party who has presented such adverse claim shall have in some Na - waived his
opposition to the _pp lication. There was no waiver on the
part of the parties who filed this adverse claim, and the only

OCTOBER TERI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

way in which any waiver is claimed to have been made was
by a proceeding on the part of the applicants in the land
office, and every proceeding there was, as we have seen,
directed to be stayed. It is doubtless true that if, notwithstanding the pendency of such an action, the land office accepts
a reduced application for ground, no part of which is covered
by the adverse claim and in respect to which there is no opposition, and proceeds subsequently upon such amended application to grant a patent, there is no one who can object, for the
matter is one wholly of procedure between the United States
and the applicant, and the former, by granting the patent,
waive any irregularity in the procedure.
But whatever may have been the effect of the amended
application of the owners of the Tyler claim in this respect,
they were not thereby taken out of the jurisdiction of the District Court, neither was the action in that court abated, nor
was it left as one only between the owners of the Last Chance
claim and the government. There is no provision in the statute for an action of this kind simply against the government.
An applicant for public lands cannot have his right thereto as
against the government determined by the courts in a suit
against the latter. United States v. Jones, 131 U. S. 1. The
only jurisdiction which the District Court could have was of
a controversy between individual claimants, and though its
judgment is by statute made conclusive upon the government
of the rights of the party in whose favor the judgment goes,
it is none the less true that the condition of jurisdiction is a
controversy between individual claimants. When an action
has been instituted in the court to determine such a controversy, it is not within the competency of the defendant to take
himself out of court. A defendant may withdraw his answer
and thus let judgment go bv default, but he does not thereby
deprive the court of a jurisdiction which has been once established. The rule applicable here is no different from that
which applies in any other case. When a defendant has by
personal service or appearance once been brought into a court,
having jurisdiction of the subject-matter, he cannot at his election oust the court of jurisdiction, or prevent the case from

LAST CHANCE MIN. CO. v. TYLER MIN. CO.

695

Opinion of the Court.

passing to judgment. Whether he confesses plaintiff's right
or defaults in answer, or files a denial or a disclaimer, is alike
immaterial. In each and all of these cases the jurisdiction
remains and the court may enter the appropriate judgment.
Where the defendant simply withdraws his answer, as was this
case, the court is under no obligations to inquire whether he
has lost all interest, but may proceed to judgment, and its
judgment is an adjudication of the rights of the plaintiff, as
shown by the complaint and testimony. Can it for a moment
be supposed that after the entry of this judgment the defendants, treating it as a nullity, could again amend their application so as to include all the ground covered by the original
application, and thus the disputed territory, and if such amendment were permitted by the land office, press the application
to success and obtain a patent for the entire claim? And yet,
if the judgment be a nullity and the defendants out of the
District Court, why might not this be done? The defendants
by the proceedings which they initiated in the land office compelled the plaintiffs to institute a suit in a court of competent
jurisdiction to enforce their rights. After such suit has been
commenced and the defendants have been made parties thereto,
and the court has proceeded to judgment, will the defendants
be heard to say that that judgment amounts to nothing? We
are clearly of the opinion that this cannot be tolerated, that
the judgment was in all respects regular, that it was conclusive as to the particular ground in controversy, and binding
by way of estoppel as to every fact necessarily determined by
it, and that priority of location was one fact so determined.
There was error, therefore, in excluding the record of that
judgment.
Our conclusions in this respect obviate the necessity of considering another very interesting and somewhat difficult question presented by counsel. It will be seen from the diagram
that according to the original location of the Tyler claim the
vein enters through an end and passes out through a side line,
while by the amended location it passes in and out through
end lines. Of course, if the latter is a valid location the owner
of the claim would unquestionably have the right to follow

OCTOBER TERAM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the vein on its dip beyond the vertical plane of the side line.
But if it were not, and the original location was the only
valid one, has the owner the right to follow the vein outside
any boundaries of the claim extended downward? It has
been held by this court in the cases heretofore cited that
where the course of a vein is across instead of lengthwise of
the location, the side lines become the end lines and the end
the side lines; but there has been no decision as to what extraterritorial rights exist if a vein enters at an end and passes
out at a side line. Is that a case for which no provision has
been made by statute? Are the parties left to the old rule of
the common law that the owner of real estate owns all above
and below the surface, and no more? Or may the court rely
upon some equitable doctrine and give to the owner of the
vein the right to pursue it on its dip in whatever direction
that may go, within the limits of some equitably created end
lines?
If the common law rule as to real estate obtains in such a
case, then, of course, on the original location the owners of
the Tyler claim would have no right to follow the dip of
their vein outside the vertical plane of any of its boundary
lines; and even if the amended application was perfectly
valid the question would arise whether the rights acquired
under it related back to the date of the original location, or
arose simply at the time of the amendment, in which case
there would be no doubt of the fact that the owners of the
Last Chance had by years a prior location. However, in the
view we have taken of the other question it is unnecessary to
consider this.
For the reason given the judgments of the Court of Appeals
and of the Circuit Court are
Reversed and the case is iemanded to th4e latter court with
instructions to grant a new trial.

