LAMBERT v. BARRETT.
Statement of the Case.

LAMBERT v. BARRETT.
APPEAL

FROM ThE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 92S.

Submitted Marcb 25, 1S95. - Decided April 15, 1S95.

The contention that petitioner cannot be made to pay the penalty for the
crime of which he was adjudged guilty, because lie was not executed at
the time originally designated, was not sustained by the chief justice of
the State nor by the associate justice of its Supreme Court, to whom,
severally, he applied, and their action is not open to review here.
An appeal will not lie from an order of a Circuit Judge at chambers.
THEODORE LAMBERT presented to one of the judges of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the third circuit, at
chambers, on December 28, 1894-, his petition for habeas corpus,
which alleged that he was restrained of his liberty by the
sheriff of Camden County, New Jersey, under a reprieve
granted by the governor of that State December 4, 1894,
whereby the execution of a certain judgment of the Court of
Oyer and Terminer and general jail delivery of the county
aforesaid, entered October 13, 1894, was suspended until January 3, 1895. The petitioner alleged that he was convicted
June 15, 1894, of the murder of William Kairer in said court,
and on October 13 was sentenced to be hanged December 13;
that, afterwards, on November 19, application was made to
the chancellor of the State of New Jersey for a writ of error
to remove the judgment and the proceedings therein to the
Supreme Court of New Jersey, which was denied; that December 4, application was made to the governor for a reprieve
to suspend the execution of the judgment, which reprieve was
granted on that day, and thereby the execution of the mandate of the court was suspended until January 3. Petitioner
further showed that on the twenty-second day of December
the governor issued a death warrant to the sheriff of Camden
County, commanding him to execute petitioner on the third
-day of January next; and charged that his imprisonment was
illegal in that the governor had no jurisdiction, warrant, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

authority under the laws of the State to grant said reprieve,
and that the day and time having passed for the execution of
the sentence of the court, "it is supposed to have been done
in law, and if not, then said judgment and execution is nil,
illegal, and cannot now be lawfully carried into effect."
The petition further alleged that by the judgment and sentence of the court, petitioner had been and was now under
sentehce of death and unlawfully restrained of his liberty and
detained in jail ; that under section 9 of article V of the Constitution of that State, the governor had no prerogative, right,
or authority to grant the reprieve or issue the death warrant,
and that the same was illegal and unlawful, and in violation
of the Constitution of the United States and of the State of
New Jersey; but that by virtue of the death warrant the
sheriff intended to execute petitioner on the third day of
January next. And it was futher averred that on the twentysecond day of December application was made to one of the
justices of the Supreme Court of Judicature of the State of
New Jersey for a writ of ltabeas co)p us, to be relieved of the
unlawful restraint of his liberty, and that the application was
denied, and petitioner was refused an appeal from the same
contrary to the Federal and state constitutions; that on the
twenty-fourth of December an application was made to the
chief justice of said Supreme Court for a writ of ceriorairito
review the death warrant issued by the governor, and that
the same was refused, and an appeal from said refusal and a
hearing therein was denied, contrary to and in violation of
said constitutions. And petitioner alleged that by the action
of said justices of the Supreme Court of the State in refusing
him relief in the premises he had been deprived of his rights
as a citizen of the United States and the protection of its laws,
and in like manner deprived of his liberty and was about to be
deprived of his life. Petitioner, therefore, prayed that he
might be forthwith brought before the Circuit Court by
virtue of the writ of iabeas toipos and be discharged from
custody.
The Circuit Judge to whom the petition was presented, upon
consideration thereof and the matters therein set forth, refused

LAMBERT v. BARRETT.
Opinion of the Court.

to issue the writ; whereupon an appeal from the order denying the application was allowed.
.Xr'. John L. Sample for appellant.
.ir.1Vilson H. Jenkins for appellee.
MR.GHiEr

JUSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.

This appeal must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The
constitution of New Jersey provides that the governor shall
have power "to grant reprieves to extend until the expiration
of a time not exceeding ninety days, after conviction." Art.
V, ยง 9; 2 Charters and Constitution, 1318. The verdict was
returned June 15. Sentence was passed October 13, and a
reprieve for thirty days was granted December 4, 1894. Appellant contends that the word "conviction" relates to the
verdict of the jury and not to the sentence of the court, and
that, therefore, the governor had no power to grant the
reprieve, nor subsequently to issue the warrant of execution.
But the contention that petitioner cannot be made to pay the
penalty for the crime of which he was adjudged guilty, because
he was not executed at the time originally designated, by
reason of the interposition of the governor at his instance,
which petitioner alleges was, as matter of construction of the
state constitution, unauthorized, was not sustained by the chief
justice of the State nor by the associate justice of its Supreme
Court, to whom, severally, he applied, and their action is not
open to review here. With the disposition of state questions
by the appropriate state authorities, it is not the province of
this court to interfere, and there is no basis for the suggestion
of any violation of the Constitution of the United States; the
denial of due process of law ; or deprivation of any right, privilege, or immunity secured to him by the Constitution or laws
of the United States. .allinger v. Davis, 146 U. S.314; In
re -emmler, 136 U. S.436; Caldwell v. Texas, 137 U. S.692;
L& Y-eConverre, 137 U. S. 624; .McAVultt v. California, 149

U. S.645.
Moreover, the order from which the appeal was taken was

00

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

not a final decision of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of New Jersey, but was an order of the circuit
judge at chambers, and an appeal from such an order will not
lie. Rev. Stat. , '163, 76-1; Act of Ilarch 3, 1885, c. 353, 23
Stat. 437; CaI)er v. Fitzgerald, 121 U. S. 81; in re Lennon,
150 U. S. 393 ; .afoclfnigld v. James, 155 U. S. 685.
-Appeal dismi.ssed.

