LUTCHER v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

because of the danger of increasing the fire." But this was
evidently a disagreement as to a minor particular, and there
is an express finding that "the measures taken by the mate
before the port authorities took charge of the ship, and those
subsequently taken by the port authorities, were the best
available to extinguish the fire and to save greater loss upon
the cargo." There seems to have been no objection at the
time to the port authorities moving the ship and putting her
aground, although the master subsequently incorporated an
objection to such action in his protest. In fact, the District
Judge states that "the master did not object to the scuttling," and that the chief difference between them was with
respect to keeping the hatches open longer for the purpose of
removing more of the cargo, to which the officials objected, in
consequence of the increased draft of air serving as fuel to
the flames.
The opinion of the court tends, in every such emergency, to
put the master and local authorities in antagonism, to give
rise to unseemly conflicts between them, and to prevent the
master from availing himself of their superior facilities for
extinguishing fires. It seems to me there is no distinction in
principle between a sacrifice made by a master and one made
by authority of law, provided the common safety of the ship
and cargo be the object of their action.
I am authorized to state that MR. JUSTICE HARLAN concurs
in this dissent.

LUTCHER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 21. Submitted April 5, 1895. - Decided April 8, 1895.

For the reasons stated in the opinion of the court it is held, (1) that this
court has no jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Circuit Court in
this case, and (2) that the writ of error was brought too late.

OCTOBER

TERM, 1894.

Opinion of the Court.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

312,. 1. E. Bradford for plaintiffs in error.
Mb'. SoZicitor General for defendants in error.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE: This was an action brought by the
United States in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Texas against the firm of Lutcher &
Moore of that district, doing a milling and manufacturing
business at Orange, Texas, to recover damages for cutting,
carrying away, and converting to their own use certain timber, the property of the United States. Judgment was rendered in favor of the United States Mlarch 11, 1891. April 3,
1891, a writ of error was allowed from the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. The record does not disclose
what proceedings were had thereon in that court. July 2,
1891, a writ of error from this court was sued out and filed,
the bond thereoif being approved and the citation signed July
10, 1891. The petition for the allowance of the writ states
that the Circuit Court of Appeals refused to allow the cause
to be docketed and the transcript of record to be filed therein,
on the ground that the cause should have been taken to this
court and not to that court. 3ut the last clause of section six
of the Judiciary Act of A[arch 3, 1891, refers to the Circuit
Court of. Appeals and not to the Circuit Court, and this writ
of error is to the Circuit Court and not to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and does not, therefore, reach the proceedings in the
latter court. We perceive no ground on which this court has
jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Circuit Court on
this writ, and, moreover, it was brought too late. Cinoiiniati
Safe and Lock Co. v. Grand Rapids Deposit Co., 146 U. S.
5. Either objection is fatal.

TV'it of error dismissed.

