WAILES v. S-MITH.
Syllabus.

such a case, the State must, under the principles now announced, be without a remedy for the protection of its rights,
or it will be driven to sue its adversary in the courts of his
own State, whose decision will be final, unless the controversy
happens to involve some question of a Federal nature; and
even then this court could only decide the Federal question
presented, and must accept the decree of the state court as
conclusive upon all other questions. The State could not sue
in any Circuit Court of the United States, for that court has
no jurisdiction under the acts of Congress of a suit brought
by a State against a citizen of another State, unless perhaps
such suit be one arising under the Constitution or laws or
treaties of the United States. The framers of the Constitution did not intend to subject a State, under any circumstances, to the indignity of being compelled to submit its
controversies with citizens of other States to the courts of
such other States. They opened the doors of this court to
every State having a cause of action against a citizen of another State. In my judgment, we have no right to refuse a
hearing to a State having such a cause of action, because of
the circumstance that one or more of its people assert an interest in the subject-matter of its controversy with the defendant citizen of another State.
For these reasons, I am constrained to dissent from the
opinion and judgment of the court.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER authorizes me to say that he concurs
i-A this opinion.

WAILES v. SMITH.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
No. 872.

Submitted March 4, 1895. - Decided March 25, 1895.

The finding of the Maryland Court of Appeals, that there was no fund in
the state treasury upon which the Comptroller could lawfully draw his
warrant, because there had been no appropriation made by the state
legislature for the payment of the commissions here claimed, was decisive of this case, and involved no Federal question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

MOTIOwN to dismiss. In 1872 the General Assembly of Maryland passed an act to ratify and confirm the Governor's
appointment of Daniel Clarke and Sidney I. Wailes, as commissioners on behalf of the State, to prosecute to settlement
all her claims against the government of the United States
under the act of Congress approved July 27, 1861, which provided for the payment by the Federal government to the
Governor of any State, etc., of any expenses properly incurred
by the State for enrolling, equipping, etc., and transporting
its troops employed in aiding to suppress "the present insurrection against the United States, to be settled upon proper
voucher," etc. Laws of 1872, c. 262, p. 431.
In 1878 the General Assembly repealed the act of 1872, and
enacted as follows: "That Sidney I. Wailes, . . . the surviving commissioner of the State of Maryland under said act
[the repealed act of 1872], be and he is hereby authorized
to prosecute the settlement of all claims of the State against
the government of the United States, and he is hereby allowed
a commission of thirty per cent upon any sum that shall
be recovered by him and paid by the government of the
United States into the treasury of the State of Maryland, as
full compensation for his services and expenses in the prosecution of said claims of said State against the United States,
it being the intent and meaning of this General Assembly
that said commissioner shall not claim or receive any other
or further compensation for his services rendered or to be
rendered and expenses incurred, or to be incurred in the prosecution of said claims, except the commission contingent upon
his success, and hereinbefore allowed him on such amount as
may be recovered by him as aforesaid, and paid into the treasury of said State." The third section of the act directed the
Comptroller of the Treasury "to issue his warrant to pay said
Wailes a commission of thirty per cent on such sum as shall be
recovered by him and paid by the government of the United
States into the treasury of said State upon said claims, and
that said commissions shall be payable upon the several
amounts received on said claims as they are paid into the
treasury." Laws of Maryland, 1878, c. 224, p. 359.

WAILES v. SMITH.
Statement of the Case.

In 1891 the amounts which had been collected from the

several States and Territories and the District of Columbia
by the Federal government under what was known as "the
Direct Tax Act of 1861" were refunded. The act of Congress authorizing this refunding contained the proviso "that
no part of the money hereby appropriated shall be paid out
by the government of any State or Territory, or any other
person, to any attorney, or agent under any contract for services now existing or heretofore made between the representative of any State or Territory and an attorney or agent."
The act moreover provided that none of the moneys directed
to be paid to any State or Territory should be so paid "until
the legislature thereof shall have accepted by resolution the
sum herein appropriated and the trusts imposed, in full satisfaction of all claims against the United States on account of
the levy and collection of said tax, and shall have authorized
the government to receive said money for the use and purposes aforesaid." Act of March 2, 1891, c. 496, 26 Stat. 822.
The General Assembly of Maryland accepted these terms
and provisions, and $371,299.83 were paid to the State by the
Federal government. Subsequently thereunder the General
Assembly directed that $202,645.71 of the amount thus received should be applied to the payment of the state debt,
and that the balance should be invested for the benefit of the
sinking fund.
The plaintiff in error began proceedings by petition for
mandamus against the defendant, Comptroller of the State,
to compel him to draw a warrant on the Treasurer in his
favor for the payment of $111,389.94, being 30 per cent on
the $371,299.83, which had been paid to the State by the Federal government. The petition was dismissed, and an appeal
was taken to the Court of Appeals of Maryland. In that
court (at the October term, 1892) the judgment below was
affirmed. lTailes v. Smith, 76 Maryland, 469, 475.
The Court of Appeals rested its conclusion upon the following grounds:
(1) That the duties imposed on the Comptroller by the act
upon which the plaintiff relied involved discretion and judgVOL. CLVII-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

ment, and, therefore, their performance could not be compelled
by mandamus.
(2) That under the Constitution of the State no money
could be drawn from the treasury without a specific appropriation, and the Comptroller could not be compelled by mandamus to draw a warrant on the Treasurer where, as in this
case, there was no appropriation.
(3) That the act under which the plaintiff had been employed did not undertake to authorize the Comptroller to
draw a warrant for the compensation therein provided for
without a previous appropriation, and that no appropriation
therefor was made by the act itself.
(4) That even if the contract provided for the deduction,
without appropriation, of the stipulated compensation from
the amount collected, the deduction could not have been
made from the money refunded, as it had been appropriated
by Congress and received by the State upon the express condition that no such deduction should be made.
(5) That the contract did not contemplate a commission on
the amount of the direct tax refunded, but only on claims
held by the State against the United States, which were specifically referred to in the contract of 1872. That inasmuch as
the direct tax had been lawfully assessed and paid, the State had
no claim against the United States for the amount collected,
at the time when the contract was made, and therefore there
could have been no reference to that amount in the contract.
The plaintiff brought the case here by writ of error. The
defendant in error, by the Attorney General of the State,
moved to dismiss, not only because of want of jurisdiction
apparent on the face of the record, but also because of the
following facts, which, it is asserted, have occurred since the
writ of error was allowed: In 189 the General Assembly of
Maryland directed the Comptroller to draw his warrant or
warrants upon the treasury for the sum of $20,000 in favor
of plaintiff in error, "in compensation for effective services
rendered by him in securing the refund by the United States
of the sum of $371,299.83, that being the guota of this State
for the direct tax paid by the State of Maryland, in pursuance

WAILES v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

of the act of Congress approved August 5, 1861. Provided,
however, that the sum of $20,000 hereby appropriated is paid
by the State and received and accepted by the said Sidney I.
Wailes, upon the express agreement and condition that the
same shall be in full payment, discharge, and satisfaction of
all claims and demands whatsoever of said Sidney I. Wailes
against the State for compensation for services claimed to
have been rendered by him under the act of 1878, c. 224, in
connection with the recovery and payment of the direct tax
by the United States under the act of Congress of March 2,
1891." Laws of Maryland, 1894, c. 233, p. 296; and the
plaintiff in error has received the sum thus appropriated, and
has given his receipt for the same as being "in payment of
a special appropriation made by the General Assembly of
1894, in my favor in compensation," "for efficient services
rendered by me in securing," etc.
These allegations are attested by the affidavit of the State
Comptroller.
Mr. John Prentiss Poe, Attorney General of the State of
-Maryland, for the motion.
Mr'. John T. Morgan opposing.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Without considering the effect of the act of the General
Assembly of 1894, and of the receipt by the plaintiff in error of
the money therein appropriated, we think it clear that the
motion to dismiss must prevail. The judgment of the Court
of Appeals of Maryland proceeded upon the theory that there
was no ministerial duty resting on the Comptroller to draw a
warrant in favor of the plaintiff in error, because no appropriation had been made by the General Assembly for the payment of his claim. This conclusion was clearly decisive of
the whole controversy and involved no issue of which we have
jurisdiction. Even if the act of 1878, upon which the plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

tiff in error relies, would, under ordinary circumstances, have
authorized the Comptroller to deduct from any sum paid to
the State by the Federal government in consequence of his exertions the amount of the stipulated compensation, that authority would have had no application to the amount collected by
the State as a repayment by the United States of the "Direct
Tax." By the terms of the act of Congress the authority to
do this was denied. The money therefore passed to the State
with the express obligation not to make this deduction, and
the State's acceptance clearly bound her to the condition imposed; she could not accept the gift, and at the same time repudiate the condition. Thus the act of acceptance abrogated
whatever authority might have otherwise existed to deduct
commissions. If the collection was not made by the plaintiff
in error, of course he was entitled to no commission under his
contract. If the collection was made by him under his contract, the conditions which were imposed by Congress, and by
assent to which alone the money was collected, prevent his
asserting any right to compensation out of the fund, or averring the existence of any contract requiring the State to deduct his commission from the amount collected. As the State,
when she took the money, was bound by the condition upon
which the payment was made, so the plaintiff in error, if he
made the collection, is equally bound thereby. This conclusion applies even if it be conceded that the State was under
contract to pay from her treasury the amount of commission
claimed. There being no substantial basis for the contention
that the plaintiff has a contract right to be paid a commission
out of the fund which the State has received from the Federal
government, he is entitled to compensation, if so entitled at
all, only out of the general funds of the State.
The finding of the Maryland Court of Appeals, that there
was no fund in the state treasury upon which the Comptroller
could lawfully draw his warrant, because there had been no
appropriation made by the state legislature for the payment of
the commissions here claimed, was decisive of the case and
involved no Federal question. Chouteau v. Gibson, 111 U. S.
200; Det'oit City Railway Co. v. Gut/ia/d, 114 U. S. 133.
Dismissed.

