OCTOBER TERM, 1894. •
Syllabus.

Application having been made to Secretary Vilas for a
review of that decision, that officer, among other things, said:
"I am satisfied that Congress, by the" act of December 15,
1880, had no intention of repealing the act of May 28, 1880,
or any portion thereof, since such repeal would work an impairment of the rights guaranteed to the Indians by the
treaty of 1865. Especially do I think this view is warranted
in the absence of any express words of repeal; for, had Congress intended a repeal the effect of which would be to disregard treaty obligations, or to defeat or impair treaty rights, I
feel certain it would have expressed that intention in plain
words and not left it to implication. H1ow, then, is the act of
December, 1880, in so far as it is in apparent conflict with the
act of May 28, 1880, (which is as to less than three sections of
land,) to be construed? Manifestly, the intention of Congress
can be ascertained only by a consideration of the treaty of
1865, and the two acts above mentioned 'inpari materia; and
so considering them, I have no difficulty in arriving at the
conclusion that the tract in question cannot be legally entered
by Frost for the reason that having made one Osage entry he
is not a qualified preemptor." 6 L. D. 540.
We approve the construction placed upon the act of December 15, 1880, by the Interior Department, and the decree is
Affirmed.

THE LUDVIG HOLBERG. 1
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 186. Argued January 8, 1895. - Decided March 4, 1895.

A statement that a steamship, in the harbor of New York, with no fog,
meeting a tug with a tow, starboards after receiving two whistles from
the tug and subsequently ports and attempts to pass between the tug
and her tow, is grossly improbable.
1 The docket title of this case is "The F. 0. Matthiessen & Wiechers
Sugar Refining Company v. The Steamship Ludvig Holberg &c., Christopher
Kahrs et al., claimants."

THE LUDVIG HOLBERG.
Statement of the Case.
A steamship, running in a fog at dead slow and coming in contact with a
tug, cannot be held responsible simply because, a few minutes before
the collision, she had been running full speed.
A steamer running in a fog is not obliged to stop at the first signal heard
by her unless its proximity be such as to indicate immediate danger.
The remarks of the court in The Colorado, 91 U. S. 692, 698, held not to
apply to this case.
The findings show that the tug was in fault in failing to send three blasts of
whistle, in quick succession.
When, in a collision case, uncontradicted testimony establishes fault on the
part of one vessel, the mere raising a doubt touching the conduct of the
other will not overcome its effect.
For reasons stated in the opinion, the court regrets that the tug could not
be brought into this case, and it affirms the decree of the court below.

THIS was a libel in admiralty for a collision which took
place on May 27, 1887, in the lower bay of New York,
between the barque Quickstep, then in tow of the tug Leonard Richards, and the Norwegian steamship Ludvig Holberg,
outward bound and in ballast. The suit, which was promoted
by the owner of the cargo of the barque, was originally begun
against both the tug and the steamship, but no service appears
to have been obtained upon the tug, as the steamship alone
appeared and answered. The District Court dismissed the
libel, and the libellant appealed to the Circuit Court, which
affirmed the decree of the District Court and made the following findings of fact:
"(1) The libellant Stafford was the owner of the barque
Quickstep before and at the time of her loss on the 24th of
May, 1887. The libellant, the F. 0. Matthiessen & Wiechers
Sugar Refining Company, is a corporation and was the owner
of a cargo of sugar laden on board said barque.
"(2) On the afternoon of the 24th day of May, 1887, the
barque Quickstep, laden with a cargo of sugar, was being
towed from sea into the port of New York by the tugboat
Leonard Richards on a hawser eighty fathoms long. While
proceeding up about in the middle of the main ship channel
and when a little to the southward and eastward of buoy No.
11, at about 4.26 P.m., she was run into by the steamship
Ludvig Holberg, the latter vessel striking the barque on her-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

port quarter about the mizzen-topmast backstay, cutting into
her after companion door -a
distance of about nine feet cutting her open so that the cargo rolled out. Immediately
after the collision said barque began to sink, and, while sinking,
was towed by the tug on to the west bank, where she grounded
in 25 feet of water about a quarter of a mile below buoy N\ro.
11, and became a total loss, and her cargo was nearly all lost.
"(3) The barque was 170 feet long, 37 feet beam, 23 feet
depth of hold, and was laden with 1024 tons of sugar, and
drew 20 feet of water.
"(4) The Ludvig llolberg, which hails from Bergen, Norway, was an iron screw steamship of 687 tons register, 200
feet long. The claimants, Christopher Kahrs and others, were
her owners. She was in ballast, drawing 13 feet aft and 9
feet forward, bound for Barracoa for fruit. She was tight,
staunch, strong, and properly manned and officered, having
a competent master and officers and a full complement of
men. At and prior to the time of collision her master and
pilot were on the bridge. She steers by hand, and there was
at her wheel one ordinary seaman, steering the vessel as
directed by the pilot. The first officer and second officer were
on lookout on the port and starboard sides respectively of the
forestay, which is fastened to the stem. Back of them, by
the windlass, was the carpenter, also on lookout.
"(5) The steamship started from pier 15 East River some
time between 3.05 and 3.15 P.a. She ran slow out of the
East River, but soon increased to full speed, and continued to
run at that rate until, fog having set in, she reduced to half
speed, and later to dead slow. Her motion through the water
was, while at full speed, about 9 to 9j knots; while at lialf
speed, about 6- to 7 knots; while at dead slow, about 31 knots
an hour. She had been running at the latter rate for a few
minutes only, probably not more than four or five, before the
collision. The pitch of her screw was 14: feet 2 inches, and at
full speed she made from 69 to 71 revolutions per minute; at
half speed, from 40 to 45 to 50 revolutions per minute; and
at slow speed, from 20 to 25 to 26 revolutions per minute.
"(6) She was off Bedloe's Island between 3.27 and 3.32,

THE LUDVIG HOLBERG.
Statement of the Case.

and it was nearly 4 o'clock when she reached Fort Lafayette.
The distance from that point to the place of collision is a little
over 3* knots. She carried the ebb tide with her from Bed'oe's Island to a little below the forts. After a brief period
of slack water and until the collision there was a flood tide.
Its set was about S. W., which helped a vessel coming in
about one knot an hour, and a vessel going out about half a
knot an hour. The wind was southerly, blowing a stiff breeze.
"(7) At the time and place of collision there was so much
fog as to prevent vessels from being visible to each other
for more than a short distance, (estimated by the witnesses
from the llolberg at between 200 and 300 feet,) and such as
to require the sounding of fog signals under the rules. Such
signals were sounded by the Ludvig Holberg. This fog had
prevailed between the Narrows and buoy No. 11 during a
period of at least 15 minutes before the collision.
"(8) The Ludvig Holberg ran into this fog about the time
she passed the forts, and at that time began sounding fog signals, but did not reduce her speed until she had run some distance below the forts. Then she reduced to half speed only,
and did not further reduce her speed until about buoy No. 13.
"(9) By the time she reached a point a little below buoy
No. 13 she had slowed down to about four knots over the
ground. From that point to the place of collision, a distance
of about 4500 feet, she did not increase her speed, proceeding
down the channel, keeping upon the starboard side, as near
the channel buoys as she could safely go, and sounding fog
signals from time to time.
"(10) While she was thus proceeding she heard one blast
right ahead, then another a little more on the starboard bow.
Both these were blown by the tug, which was not at that time
visible, through the fog, to those on board the Holberg.
"(11) Almost immediately thereafter the tug came in sight
only a few hundred feet off and a little on the steamer's starboard bow, and gave a signal of two blasts.
"(12) Neither the barque nor the hawser were then visible,
and no signals indicated to the Ludvig Holberg that the tug
had a tow nearly 500 feet behind her.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

"(13) Upon receiving the whistle of two signals from the
tug, the steamer starboarded and passed the tug starboard to
starboard, clearing her about 30 feet.
"(14) Then, for the first time, the Ludvig Holberg became
aware of the presence of the Quickstep, which was not following directly after the tug, but to starboard of her, and whose
pilot at that time, by putting her wheel hard-a-port, threw her
head somewhat more to starboard.
"(15) Thereupon the steamship ported in order to go between the tug and the barque, at the same time hailing the
tug to cast off the hawser.
"(16) If the hawser had been cast off promptly the steamer
would probably have gone safely between the tug and the
barque.
"(17) The hawser was not cast off, and the steamer running against it with her starboard bow parted it, and at the
same time her bow was swung to port, resulting in collision
with the barque's port quarter.
"(18) The steamer stopped and reversed as soon as she saw
the tug had a vessel in tow, but not before, and was nearly
stopped at the time of collision.
"(19) Had the steamer been aware when she starboarded
to pass the tug that the latter vessel had the Quickstep in tow
on a hawser of 80 fathoms, she could and in all probability
would have avoided the collision.

" Conclusions of law.
"(1) Said collision was not due to any fault or negligence
of those in charge of the Ludvig Holberg.
"(2) The libels herein should be dismissed, as already
decreed by the District Court, with costs to the claimants in
both courts."
Claimants also put in evidence a duly certified copy of the
following rule of the supervising inspectors:
"Rule X. Section 8. All steam vessels, (except upon the
Red River of the North and rivers whose waters flow into the
Gulf of Mexico,) when engaged in towing during fog or thick

THE LUDVIG HOLBERG.
Opinion of the Court.

weather, shall sound three distinct blasts of their steam
whistles in quick succession, repeating at intervals not exceeding one minute."
From the decree of the Circuit Court libellant appealed to
this court.
-Mr. George A. Black for appellant.
-Mr. Barrington Putnam for appellees.
BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
MR.

J5USTICE

This case turns almost altogether upon questions of fact,
and particularly upon the existence and density of the fog at
the time of, and immediately before, the collision. From the
opinions both of the Circuit and District Courts it would
appear that libellant took the ground in both courts that there
was little or no fog prior to the collision, and no fog signals
were given by the tug, while the steamship's witnesses claimed
that the fog had set in from fifteen to thirty minutes before,
and became so dense that neither the tug nor the barque
could be seen over four hundred feet distant; and that the
steamship was regularly sounding her steam whistle. If there
were no fog, then the steamship was grossly and inexplicably
in fault for starboarding, after receiving two whistles from
the tug, and subsequently porting, and attempting to pass
between the tug and her tow. Indeed, the very flagrancy of
her fault in this particular was such as to lead to the belief
that it is not likely to have been committed.
In this court, however, libellant takes the position that the
steamship Holberg was in a dense fog from the time of passing the Narrows, at about four o'clock, up to the time of the
collision, at 4.26; that the Quickstep was not, however, in this
fog, and hence the witnesses on the steamer, looking from the
fog into the clear weather, could see the tow farther than
the witnesses on the tug, looking into the fog, could see the
steamer. The difficulty with this assumption is that there is
nothing in the facts to support it. The seventh finding is
VOL. CLVri-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

that "at the time and place of collision there was so much fog
as to prevent vessels from being visible to each other more
than a short distance, (estimated by the witnesses from the
lolberg at between 200 and 300 feet,) and such as to require
the sounding of fog signals under the rules. Such signals
were sounded by the Ludvig Holberg. This fog had prevailed
between the Narrows and buoy No. 11 during a period of at
least 15 minutes before the collision." Finding No. 10 is:
"While she" (the steamship) "was thus proceeding she heard
one blast right ahead, then another a little more on the starboard bow. Both these were blown by the tug, which was
not at the time visible through the fog to those on board the
Holberg." The opinion, too, of the District Judge is the
direct converse of the respondent's argument in this particular,
wherein he says "some further explanations of the discrepancies between the witnesses of the barque and of the Ludvig
HTolberg may be found in the fact, often testified to before
me, that objects cannot be distinguished so easily or so far in
looking toward the fog as.in looking away from it. The
barque's witnesses may, therefore, have been able to distinguish the steamer before the latter could distinguish the
barque." There is a further finding, (No. 8,) that the Iolberg
ran into this fog about the time she passed the forts," from
which we infer, and such also is the testimony, that the fog
was coming up the bay from the southward, whereas the
theory of the libellant assumed that there was a bank of fog
at and just below the Narrows, while the weather was comparatively clear where the Quickstep was.
The stress of the libellant's argument is that, considering
the state of the weather, the steamer was not proceeding at
the moderate rate of speed required by law in foggy weather,
and did not take prompt measures by stopping and reversing
to avoid a collision. The finding as to her general speed is
(No. 5) that she "started from pier 15, East River, some time
between 3.05 and 3.15 P.a.
She ran slow out of East River,
but soon increased to full speed, and continued to run at that
rate until, Tog having set in, she reduced to half speed, and
later to dead slow. Ier motion through the water was, while

THE LUDVIG HOLBERG.
Opinion of the Court.

at full speed, about 9 to 9 knots; while at half speed, about
6- to 7 knots; while at dead slow, about 31 knots an hour.
She had been running at the latter rate for a few minutes
only, probably not more than four or five, before the collision."
(6) "She was off Bedloe's Island between 3.27 and 3.32, and
it was nearly four o'clock when she reached Fort Lafayette.
The distance from that point to the place of collision is a little
over 3* knots." (8) "At that time" (as she passed the forts)
"she began sounding fog signals, but did not reduce her speed
until she had run some distance below the forts. Then she
reduced to half speed only, and did not further reduce her
speed until about buoy No. 13." (9) " By the time she reached
a point a little below buoy No. 13, she had slowed down to
about four knots over the ground. From that point to the
place of collision, a distance of 4500 feet, she did not increase
her speed."
We cannot say that these findings exhibit any fault on the
part of the steamship in this particular. She was clearly not
bound to stop solely on account of the fog, and if she had been
running dead slow for four or five minutes before the collision,
she cannot be held in fault for what her previous speed may
have been. If she ran twenty miles an hour down to the Narrows, and was running dead slow at the time she first heard
the tug's whistle, fault could not be imputed to her for her
previous speed.
These findings, however, are attacked upon the ground that
the testimony showed that the steamship passed Fort Lafayette at 4.05; that the collision occurred at 4.26, three and oneeighth knots, or 19,000 feet below the fort, thus implying that
she must have covered that distance at the rate of over nine
knots an hour. However persuasive this argument may have
been when addressed to the District or Circuit Court, it is entitled to but little weight here, since the finding is that "it
was nearly four o'clock when she reached Fort Lafayette,"
and that four or five minutes before the collision she had been
running dead slow. The finding of the District Judge was
also that at the time Holberg was sounding her signals, she
over three and a half knots.
was going "dead slow "-not

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

There is no such manifest inconsistency between the findings
of the Circuit Court in this particular as to require us to reject
either of them. Both of them may be true, and when it comes
to fixing the time exactly to the minute, there is always a liability to error. The testimony of the officers and crew of the
Holberg as to her speed is not only uniform, but is corroborated by that of the master of the steamboat St. Johns, which
passed her abreast of buoy 13, while going herself at a speed
not exceeding five miles an hour. It is sufficient to say in this
connection that there is no such unanimity of testimony as to
compel us to say that both courts were mistaken in finding
that the steamer was proceeding dead slow at the time she
heard the tug's whistle. There was some evidence to that
effect, and that is sufficient to support the finding.
Did she act with sufficient promptness in stopping and reversing after she became aware of the proximity of the tug?
The finding in that particular is, (10) "While she was thus
proceeding she heard one blast right ahead ; then another a
little more on the starboard bow - both these were blown by
the tug, which was not at that time visible through the fog to
those on board the Iolberg." (11) "Almost immediately
thereafter the tug came in sight only a few hundred feet
off and a little on the steamer's starboard bow, and gave a
signal.of two blasts." (12) "Neither the barque nor t-he hawser were then visible, and no signals indicated to the Ludvig
llolberg that the tug had a tow nearly 500 feet behind her."
No case has ever held that a steamer was obliged to stop
at the first signal heard by her, unless its proximity be such
as to indicate immediate danger. The next signal denoted
that the tug was coming down on the starboard bow of the
steamer, and as she came in sight almost immediately thereafter, only a few hundred feet off, and there was nothing to
indicate the presence of a tow, the steamer was in no fault for
proceeding, and as a matter of fact she passed the tug in
safety. Had she been aware of the presence of the tow a
wholly different question would have been presented. The
fact that the tug was under a rank sheer to port, as claimed
by the barque, does not affect this question. Indeed, there is

THE LUDVIG HOLBERG.
Opinion of the Court.

nothing in the findings to show it, and if it were so, it indicated safety rather than danger, as such course would take
her away from that of the steamer.
It is found (18) that "the steamer stopped and reversed as
soon as she saw the tug had a vessel in tow, but not before,
and was nearly stopped at the time of the collision." This
finding is also attacked upon the ground that it is inconsistent
with the second finding, that the steamship cut into the barque
a distance of nine feet, cutting her open so that the cargo
rolled out. There is no finding, however, as to the speed of
the Quickstep at the time of the collision, and if the steamer
bad come to a standstill, a speed of five miles an hour on the
part of the barque would have had the same effect in crushing
her sides that the same speed would have had if she had been
at rest and the steamer in motion. It was also the opinion of
the District Judge that the force of the blow was mainly
owing to the forward motion of the barque. Though the
collision was conclusive evidence of speed on the part of one
vessel or the other, it was not conclusive evidence of speed on
the part of the steamship.
While it was held by this court in The Colorado, (91 U. S.
692, 698,) that a steamer of 1470 tons ought to have more
than one wheelsman in a fog, it was not laid down as a
general rule applicable to all steamers, but was based upon
the size of the propeller in that case, and upon the fact that
when the emergency came, the mate deemed it necessary to
order the lookout to leave the place where he was stationed,
and go to the wheel to help the wheelsman put the wheel
over, leaving the propeller for the time being without any
lookout. It was said that "steamers of such size, under such
circumstances, ought never, in a dark night, to be without a
watch on deck sufficiently effective to change the course of
the vessel with celerity without withdrawing the lookout from
his station and appropriate duties." These remarks have no
necessary application to a steamer of 687 tons, which is found
by the Circuit Court to have been "properly manned and
officered, having a competent master and officers and a full
complement of men." There seems to have been no fault on

OCTOBER TERI,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

the part of the steamship by reason of any inability of the
wheelsman to turn the wheel with sufficient promptness.
Upon the findings in this case there can be no doubt of the
fault of the tug in failing to conform to the rule of the supervising inspectors requiring steam vessels, when engaged in towing
during a fog, to sound three distinct blasts of their steam
whistles in quick succession, at intervals not exceeding one
minute. In fact, the tug appears to have sounded no fog signals
at all. The fault in this particular was aggravated by the great
length of the tug's line, and it is by no means certain that she
was not guilty of a distinct fault in failing to shorten the line as
she came up the bay. Iad the steamship been apprised of the
fact that the tug was encumbered by a tow, there is no doubt
that by putting her wheel hard-a-starboard, she could have
avoided the barque; but seeing the tug alone, she was under
no obligation to take further precautions than such as were
necessary to avoid her. Her action after she became aware
of the fact that a tow was behind the tug was probably the
most prudent that was left to her under the circumstances.
Whether she should put her wheel hard-a-starboard, and
endeavor to pass the barque to port, or should port, in order
to pass between the vessels, was, in the imminence of the collision, largely a matter of discretion with her master, and she
should not be condemned for the result. The steamship had
been brought into a perilous position by the conduct of the
tug, and ought not to be criticised for the efforts she made
to extricate herself. Her porting, if an error at all, was one
committed in extremis.

Fault is imputed to the barque for failure to cast off her line
promptly, and also for conflicting orders given to the wheel,
but we are not disposed to scan her actions in the excitement
of the moment too closely, although the court finds: (16) That
"if the hawser had been cast off promptly the steamer would
have probably gone safely between the tug and the barque."
We do not find it necessary to express an opinion in this
particular.
This is one of those cases where a clear fault has been
found on the part of one of the vessels both by the District

THE LUDVIG HOLBERG.
Opinion of the Court.

and Circuit Courts, and the findings of fact are such as to
render it incumbent upon us to affirm their decree. As we
said in T/te City of i¥ew York, 147 IT. S. 72, 85 : "Where
fault on the part of one vessel is established by uncontradicted testimony, and such fault is, of itself, sufficient to
account for the disaster, it is not enough for such vessel to
raise a doubt with regard to the management of the other
vessel. There is some presumption at least adverse to its
claim, and any reasonable doubt with regard to the propriety
of the conduct of such other vessel should be resolved in its
favor." The usual effort is made in this case to impeach the
findings of the Circuit Court, but libellant at best has only
succeeded in raising a doubt, which is not sufficient. If there
be any evidence to support the findings, as there undoubtedly
is, they should not be disturbed.
We are by no means insensible of the fact that a practical
injustice may have been done to the owners of the Quickstep
and her cargo in the litigation which is closed by this decision,
by reason of the inability of the libellants to obtain service in
this suit upon the tug. It appears that a suit was subsequently
begun against the tug in the District of New Jersey. This
suit resulted in a decree of the District Court condemning her
for the want of a proper lookout, and for failing to stop immediately after her first signal. .iernan v. The Leona'rdichards,
38 Fed. Rep. 767. No opinion was expressed as to the fault
of the steamship. On appeal to the Circuit Court this decree
was reversed, and the steamship held to have been wholly in
fault for not complying with the signals agreed upon, and
changing her signals at an inopportune moment, the court construing the fog signals of the steamship as signals to the tug
to port. It was said by the District Judge that the barque
was conceded to have been free from fault. A like assumption was made by the Circuit Judge, who also stated that, if
the people in charge of the llolberg had been brought in to
testify, the case might have had a different look. In that
suit the steamship was not represented by witnesses. To this
suit the tug was not a party, and was not represented by
counsel, though two of her crew appear to have been sworn

OCTOBER TERIf, 1894.
Syllabus.

on behalf of the libellant. The result is that, in the suit
in which the steamship was not represented, she was found
wholly in fault, and in the suit in which the tug was not
represented, she is found in fault. The litigation is an apt
illustration of the maxim, les absents ont toujours tort.
We regret that the tug could not have been brought into
the case; but the District and Circuit Courts were bound by
such testimony as was introduced, and we are bound by the
record and the findings of the Circuit Court. Adjudging, as
we do upon these findings, that no fault can be imputed to
the steamship, we have no choice but to affirm the decree.
The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore,
-Afirmed.

BALTIMORE

AND

POTOMAC

RAILROAD

COMV-

PANY v. MACKEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 84. Argued November19, 20, 1S94.-

Decided March 4, 1895.

Where the evidence is conflicting, and no reasonable or proper inference can
be drawn from it as matter of law, the case should be left to the jury.
Knowledge of a defect in a car brake cannot be imputed to the employ6
charged with keeping it in order, when he has had no opportunity to
see it.
When an instruction to the jury embodies several propositions of law, to
some of which there are no objections, the party objecting must point
out specifically to the trial court the part to which he objects, in order to
avail himself of the objection.
Ambiguous or too forcible expressions in a charge may be explained or
qualified by other parts of it, and if the charge does not, as a whole,
work injustice to the party objecting, the use of such expressions will
not be cause for granting a new trial.
A railroad company, receiving the cars of other companies to be hauled in
its trains, is bound to inspect such cars before putting them in its trains,
and is responsible to its employ~s for injuries inflicted upon them in consequence of defects in such cars which might have been discovered by a
reasonable inspection before admitting them to a train.
In an action by an executor of a deceased person against a railroad company

