OOTOBER TERMf, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

correct transcript from such original and of the whole thereof,
being up to and including the 31st day of December, A.D.
1871, and that the same has been transcribed by me pursuant
to the resolution of the board of supervisors of said county
passed May 28th, 1872."
After the index was thus reproduced the original was kept
in the vault and the certified copy was in common use from
November 9, 1875. it would seem that the new volume was
from that date as effective as an original, and that the register
of deeds would have the same power to correct mistakes in the
latter as in the former. At all events, under the circumstances, appellant occupied no position to question the title of
complainant as a bonafidTe purchaser in 1883, on the ground of
informality in the original index.
Decree affl,?,ed.

WALTON v. MARIETTA CHAIR COMPANY.
ERROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 234. Submitted March 4, 1895. -Decided

March 2,1695.

A writ of error, which names, as the plaintiff in error, a certain person as
administrator of a certain estate, may be amended by substituting the
name of another person who appears by the accompanying record to
have claimed to succeed him as such administrator, tendered the bill
of exceptions, and given bond to prosecute the writ of error.
A writ of error should state the Christian name of the plaintiff in error, and
not the initial letter thereof only.

Tins was a motion to amend a writ of error from this court
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Ohio, by changing the name of the plaintiff in
error. The record of that court showed the following
matters:
The original action was brought in November, 1889, by
"W. N. Walton, administrator of the estate of Latimer Bailey,
deceased," a citizen of New Jersey, against the Marietta Chair

WALTON v. MARIETTA CHAIR CO.
Statement of the Case.

Company, a corporation of Ohio, and having its principal office
and place of business in that district, to recover damages in
the sum of $10,000, for trespassing upon land of Bailey, and
cutting and carrying away timber therefrom in his lifetime.
After the filing of an answer by the defendant, and of
a replication by Walton, as Bailey's administrator, "came
L. W. Ellenwood," and suggested that Walton's letters of administration had been revoked, and "the said L. W. Ellenwood
has been duly appointed and qualified as administrator of the
estate of said Latimer Bailey, deceased ;" and the court, "on
motion of the said L. W. Ellenwood," ordered "that the said
action do stand revived in the name of said L. W. Ellenwood
as such administrator, and proceed in his favor."
The defendant filed an answer, protesting against "the
revivor of this action in the name of L. W. Ellenwood, as
administrator of the estate of Latimer Bailey, deceased;"
and setting up that "said L. W. Ellenwood is not the successor in office of said W. N. Walton, as the administrator of the
estate of said Latimer Bailey, deceased," and that Walton
never was such administrator, and any appointment of him
as such was void for want of jurisdiction in the court which
appointed him.
Upon the defendant's application, and after the introduction
of evidence, and a hearing, the court adjudged that the order
reviving the action in Ellenwood's name be vacated and set
aside, and that the action be abated, and stricken from the
docket. To this judgment "the said L. W. Ellenwood duly
excepted," and "the plaintiff, L. W. Ellenwood, as administrator of the estate of Latimer Bailey, deceased," tendered a bill
of exceptions, which was allowed by the court on May 27,
1891.
On June 19, 1891, a bond was filed in the clerk's office, executed by "L. W. Ellenwood, as principal," and by two other
persons as sureties, reciting that "the above named L. W.
Ellenwood, as adm'r of the estate of Latimer Bailey, dec'd,"
bad taken out a writ of error from this court "to reverse the
judgment rendered in the above entitled action;" and conditioned that "the above named L. W. Ellenwood, adm'r as

OOTOBER TERT, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

aforesaid, shall prosecute his said writ of error to effect, and
answer all costs if he shall fail to make good his plea."
On June 20, 1891, there was filed, in the clerk's office of
that court, an assignment of errors and prayer for citation,
purporting to be made by "L. W. Ellenwood, by his attorneys," three persons named, and signed by them as "attorneys
for plaintiff in error."
In all these proceedings, the action was entitled "W. N. Walton, administrator of the estate of Latimer Bailey, deceased,"
as plaintiff, against the Marietta Chair Company, as defendant.
The writ of error from this court to the Circuit Court was
dated June 20, 1891, was signed by the clerk and under the
seal of that court, as permitted by Rev. Stat. § 1001, and
began thus: "Because in the records and proceedings and
also in the rendition of the judgment of a plea, which is in
the said circuit court, before you., between W. Y. Walton,
adm'r of the estate of Latimer Bailey, d'c'd, and the Marietta
Chair Company, a manifest error hath happened, to the great
damage of the said W. N. Walton, adrn'r as aforesaid, as by
his complaint appears."
In this court, at this term, "L. W. Ellenwood, by his
counsel," moved to amend the writ of error, by striking out,
in two places therein, the words "W. N. Walton" and substituting the words "L. W. Ellenwood;" and the defendant in
error filed an affidavit of a person who testified that he was
well acquainted with "L. W. Ellenwood." who had filed the
motion to amend this writ of error, and that his Christian
name was not L., but Lowell, and his legal name was Lowell
W. Ellenwood.
Mr'. .Edward B. TfWitney for the motion.
.Mr. A. .D. Follett, 3Th. R. A. Ha'rison, and 3ft. Joseph
Olds opposing.
M . JUSTEoPAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

By a provision of the first judiciary act of the United States,
"no summons, writ, declaration, return, process, judgment, or

WALTON v. MIARIETTA CHAIR CO.
Opinion of the Court.

other proceedings, in civil causes in any court of the United
States, shall be abated, arrested, quashed or reversed, for any
defect or want of form;" but the court shall proceed and
give judgment according as the right of the cause and matter
in law shall appear to it, without regarding any such defect
or want of form, except those which, in cases of demurrer,
the party demurring specially sets down, together with his
demurrer, as the cause thereof; and the court shall amend
every such defect and want of form, other than those which
the party demurring so expresses; and "may at any time
permit either of the parties to amend any defect in the process
or pleadings, upon such conditions" as it shall, in its discretion
and by its rules, prescribe. Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20,
§ 32; 1 Stat. 91; Rev. Stat. § 954.
At first, it was treated by this court, as of course, that a
writ of error, which contained no return day, might be
amended by inserting the day; and that the want of a date
to the teste of a writ of error, as well as the omission to state
the district in which the Circuit Court was held, might be
made good by amendment, when there was enough in the
record to amend by. llossman, v. fiigginson, 4 Dall. 12;
Course v. Stead, 4 Dall. 22.
Afterwards, adopting a stricter rule, it was held that a writ
of error did not give this court jurisdiction, and could not be
amended, if the return day was wrongly stated; Insurance
0o. of Vrginia'v. -Mordecai,21 How. 195; Porter v. Foley,
21 How. 393; or if the real parties were transposed, although,
as the court said: "It is evident that the writ was intended
to be sued out by the plaintiff in the court below, and that
the names of the defendants, as plaintiffs in the writ, were used
without their authority; for the errors are assigned by the
plaintiff, and the bond states that a writ of error has been
sued out by him, and the citation issued by the judge is
directed to the defendants, and served on their counsel. And
it is obvious that the writ in the name of the defendants was
an oversight by the clerk by whom it was issued." Hodge v.
Williams, 22 How. 87, 88.
It was also held that a writ of error or an appeal could not

OCTOBER TER-M, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

be amended, if it described either party only as "the heirs"
of a person named; Tilson's hei'rs v. Life and Fire Ins. Co.,
12 Pet. 140; or by the name of one person "and others;"
.Deneale v. Ar.cJhee, 8 Pet. 526; .Daverport v. Fletcher, 16
How. 1412; .Miler v. McKenzie, 10 Wall. 5S2; or by the
name of a person "& Co." -3ussinav. Cavazos, 6 Wall. 355,
361; Tie P 'otector, 11 Wall. 82. But in the last of those
cases, decided at October term, I70, two justices dissented,
upon the ground that the amendment might and should be
permitted under section 32 of the Judiciary Act of 1789. 11
Wall. 88.
In 1869, a majority of the court, upon the authority of the
cases in 21 Howard, above mentioned, and without referring
to the early case of Course v. Stead, 4 Dall. 22, above cited,
held that a defect in the teste of a writ of error could not be
supplied by amendment. Moulder v. Forrest,154 U. S. appx.
567.
Congress thereupon interposed, and by the act of June 1,
1872, c. 255, § 3, reenacted in the Revised Statutes, enacted
that this court "may at any time, in its discretion, and upon
such terms as it may deem just, allow an amendment of a writ
of error, when there is a mistake in the teste of the writ, or a
seal to the writ is wanting, or when the writ is made returnable on a day other than the day of the commencement of
the term next ensuing the issue of the writ, or when the statement of the title of the action or parties thereto in the writ is
defective, if the defect can be remedied by reference to the
accompanying record, and in all other particulars of form:
]Provided, the defect has not prejudiced, and the amendment
will not injure, the defendant in error." 17 Stat. 197; Rev.
Stat. § 1005.
Under this act, the court has allowed a writ of error to be
amended, which bore a wrong teste and seal; Texas & Paciflc
Railway v. Yir'k, 111 U. S. 486; or contained a wrong return
day; Hlam2pton v. Rouse, 15 Wall. 684; Semnmes v. United
States, 91 U. S. 21; NationalBank v. Bank of Commerce, 99
U. S. 608; or no return day at all; Atherton v. Fowler, 91
U. S. 143; Evans v. Brown, 109 U. S. 180; or described

WALTON v. MARIETTA CHAIR CO.
Opinion of the Court.

either party by the name of a partnership, and not by the
names of the individuals composing it; MJ-oore v. Simonds, 100
U. S. 145; Gumbel v. Pitkin, 113 U. S. 545; Estis v. Tabue,
128 U. S. 225; United States v. Schoverling, 146 U. S. -76; or
gave the Christian name of the plaintiff below and defendant
in error as Henry, when, as appeared from the record, it
should have been George; PacificBank v. _iJxter, 114 U. S.
463; or named only one defendant in error, when there were
more. Kcnickeerbocker Ins. Co. v. Pendleton, 115 U. S. 339.
But the amendment rests in the discretion of the court, and
will not be allowed if there is danger of prejudice to the
adverse party, or if there is any other good reason against it,
as, for instance, that the main question presented by the record
has been often decided by this court. Pearson v. Tewdall,
95 U. S. 294.
In the present case, the writ of error, describing, with gratuitous abbreviation, "W. N. Walton, adm'r of the estate of
Latimer Bailey, d'c'd," as the plaintiff in error, was manifestly
intended to be sued out by and in behalf of the administrator
of Latimer Bailey's estate. The record sent up with the writ
of error shows that the whole controversy was whether Ellenwood was legally such administrator, in place of Walton, by
whom the original action had been brought; and that the
exceptions to the decision below were taken and tendered, and
the bond to prosecute the writ of error was given, by Ellenwood. The case is clearly one in which "the statement of
the title of the action or parties thereto in the writ is defective," and in which "the defect can be remedied by reference
to the accompanying record," and the amendment asked for
cannot prejudice the adverse party; and the merits of the case
have not been discussed by counsel. The amendment should
therefore be allowed.
The description of Ellenwood, like that of Walton, both
in the record and in the proposed amendment, gives him no
Christian name, beyond initial letters. It is true, as argued
by his counsel, that he might have had no Christian name.
Breedlove v. Fticolet, 7 Pet. 413, 431. But the affidavit filed
in opposition to the motion to amend shows that he had one,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

and that his real name was Lowell W. Ellenwood. The
description of him by initials is therefore but an illustration
of a loose and careless practice which this court does not
countenance. .Monroe Cattle Co. v. Becher, 147 U. S. 47, 5S.
The result is, that the writ of error is to be amended by
inserting the name of Lowell W. Ellenwood in the place of
the name of W. N. Walton, wherever that name appears in
the writ of error.
-Amendment allowed.
GULF,

COLORADO AND SANTA F
COMPANY v. SHANE.

RAILWAY

ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES COURT FOR THE INDIAN TERRITORY.
No. 212. Submitted January 29, 1595. - Decided April 1, 1805.

It being settled that by the joint resolution of 'March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1115,
the jurisdiction of this court was preserved as to pending cases, and
cases wherein the writ of error on appeal should be sued out, or taken
before July 1, 1891, the court has jurisdiction of this case, the writ of
error having been allowed and sealed June 5, 1S91.
Under the act of May 2, 1890, c. 182, providing a temporary government for
the Territory of Oklahoma, the provisions of the statutes of Arkansas,
that if either party shall desire a panel, the court shall cause the names
of 24 competent jurors, written upon separate slips of paper, to be placed
in a box to be kept for that purpose, from which the names of 18 shall
be drawn and entered on a list in the order in which they are drawn and
numbered, and that each party shall be furnished with a copy of that
'list, from which each may strike the names of three jurors, and return
the list so struck to the judge, who shall strike from the original list the
names so stricken from the copies, and the first twelve names remaining
on the original list shall constitute the jury, are mandatory, and no rule
or custom of the court can override them.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.

-M'. A. T. Britton, 3Mr. A. B. Browne, JVP. J. W. Terry,
and Mr. George ?. Peck for plaintiff in error.
XP&. A. EI. Garland and .M2'. William Xl. Cravens for
defendant in error.

