KEELER v. STANDARD FOLDING BED CO.
Syllabus.

If the proceedings in the Court of Oyer and Terminer could
not, under the laws of New Jersey, be reviewed in a higher
court of that State, except upon the allowance of a writ of
error by such court or by some judge, and if such allowance
was refused, then the judgment of the court of original jurisdiction was, within the meaning of the acts of Congress, the
judgment of the highest court of the State in which a determination of the case could be had, and such judgment could
have been, upon writ of error, reexamined here, if it had
denied any right, privilege, or immunity specially set up and
claimed under the Constitution of the United States. Gregory
v. icVeigh, 23 Wall. 294, 306; Fisher v. Perkins, 122 U. S.
522, 526.
If an indictment in a state court, under statutes not void
under the Constitution of the United States be defective,
according to the essential principles of criminal procedure, an
error in rendering judgment upon it - even if the accused at
the trial objected to it as insufficient - should not be made
the basis of jurisdiction in a court of the United States to issue
a writ of habeas coTus. The court below having had jurisdiction of the offence and of the accused, and having proceeded
under a statute not repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, the Circuit Court of the United States had no authority to interfere, by means of a writ of habeas corpus, with the
execution of the sentence. Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S. 272;
JTNew York v. Eno, 155 U. S.89, 98.
The judgment is

Affrmed.
KEELER

STANDARD FOLDING BED COIPANY.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 52.

Submitted March 20, 1894.-Decided April 8, 1895.

One who buys patented articles of manufacture from one authorized to sell
them at the place where they are sold becomes possessed of an absolute
property in such articles, unrestricted in time or place.

OCTOBER TERMT, 1894.
Argument for Appellees.
Whether a patentee may protect himself and his assignees by special contracts brought home to the purchasers is not a question before the court
and upon which it expresses no opinion.
The complainants were assignees, for the State of Massachusetts, of certain letters patent granted to one Welch, for an improvement in wardrobe bedsteads. The Welch Folding Bed Company owned the patent
rights for the State of MAichigan. The defendants purchased a carload
of said beds from the Welch Folding Bed Company, at Grand Rapids,
MAichigan, for the purpose of selling them in Massachusetts, and afterwards sold them there and were still engaged in selling such beds in
Boston. Held, that the defendants having purchased the patented articles in Michigan from the assignee of the patent for the territory included
in that State, had a right to sell them anywhere within the United States,
including Massachusetts, where the patent rights had been assigned to
another assignee.
The previous cases bearing on this point considered and reviewed.

THE Standard Folding Bed Company, a corporation of the
State of New York, filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts a bill of complaint
against Keeler & Brother, partners doing business in the city
of Boston.
By an agreed state of facts it appears that the complainants
are assignees, for the State of Massachusetts, of certain letters
patent granted to one Lyman Welch, for an improvement in
wardrobe bedsteads; that the Welch Folding Bed Company
own the patent rights for the State of Michigan, and that
the defendants purchased a carload of said beds from the
Welch Folding Bed Company, at Grand Rapids, Michigan,
for the purpose of selling them in Massachusetts, and that
they afterwards sold and are now engaged in selling the said
beds in Boston.
The conclusion in the court below was that the defendants
were not protected from the claim of the Massachusetts
assignee by having purchased the patented articles from the
Michigan assignee, and accordingly there was an injunction
and final decree in favor of the complainants, from which an
appeal was taken to this court.

.A&. Gausten Browne and X'. J. Henry Taylor for appellants.

KEELER v. STANDARD FOLDING BED CO.

661

Opinion of the Court.

Xr. Edwin T. Rice for appellees.
MR.JUSTICE SInIAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It is provided in section 4884 of the Revised Statutes that
Ievery patent shall contain . . . a grant to the patentee,
his heirs, or assigns, for the term of seventeen years, of
the exclusive right to make, use, and vend the invention
or discovery throughout the United States and Territories
thereof ;" and in section 4898 that "every patent or any
interest therein shall be assignable in law by an instrument
in writing, and the patentee or his assigns or legal representatives may in like manner grant and convey an exclusive right
under his patent to the whole or any specified part of the
United States."
Where the patentee has not parted, by assignment, with
.ny of his original rights, but chooses himself to make and
vend a patented article of manufacture, it is obvious that
a purchaser can use the article in any part of the United
States, and, unless restrained by contract with the patentee,
-can sell or dispose of the same. It has passed outside of the
monopoly, and is no longer under the peculiar protection
granted to patented rights. As was said by Mr. Justice
Clifford, in Goodyear v. Beverly Rubber Co. (1 Cliff. 348,
854): "Having manufactured the material and sold it for a
satisfactory compensation, whether as material or in the form
-of a manufactured article, the patentee, so far as that quantity
of the product of his invention is concerned, has enjoyed all
the rights secured to him by his letters patent, and the manufactured article, and the material of which it is composed, go
to the purchaser for a valuable consideration, discharged of
.all the rights of the patentee previously attached to it, or
impressed upon it, by the act of Congress under which
the patent was granted."
Suppose, however, the patentee has exercised his statutory
right of assigning by conveying to another an exclusive right
under the patent to a specified part of the United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

what are the rights of a purchaser of patented articles from
the patentee himself within the territory reserved to him?
Does he thereby obtain an absolute property in the article,
so that he can use and vend it in all parts of the United
States, or, if he take the article into the assigned territory, must
he again pay for the privilege of using and selling it? If, as
is often the case, the patentee has divided the territory of the
United States into twenty or more "specified parts," must a
person who has bought and paid for the patented article in one
part, from a vendor having an exclusive right to make and
vend therein, on removing from one part of the country to
another, pay to the local assignee for the privilege of using
and selling his property, or else be subjected to an action for
damages as a wrongdoer? And is there any solid distinction
to be made, in such a case, between the right to use and the
right to sell? Can the owner of the patented article hold and
deal with it the same as in case of any other description of
property belonging to him, and, on his death, does it pass,
with the rest of his personal estate, to his legal representatives,
and thus, as a part of the assets to be administered, become
liable to be sold?
These are questions which, although already in effect answered by this court in more cases than one, are now to be
considered in the state of facts disclosed in this record.
In IFlson v. Rgousseau, 4 How. 646, 688, and in Bloomer v.
.McQueewnc, 14 How. 539, it was held that the purchasers
of patented machines had the right to continue the use of
such machines, without again paying royalty, although the
patent was twice extended. In the latter case it appeared
that AcQuewan, the defendant, had purchased his machines,
not from the original patentee or from a territorial assignee,
but from a purchaser from the latter. Therefore that case is
authority for the proposition that the purchaser of a patented
machine has not only the right to continue the use of the
machine as long as it exists, but to sell such machine, and
that his vendee takes the right to use.
The scope and effect of those decisions were thus expressed
by 211r. Justice Clifford, in 1itehell v. .lawley, 16 Wall. 544-,

KEELER v. STANDARD FOLDING BED CO.

663

Opinion of the Court.

546, 547: "Patentees acquire by their letters patent the exclusive right to make and use their patented inventions and to
vend to others to be used for the period of time specified in
the patent, but when they have made one or more of the
things patented, and have vended the same to others to be
used, they have parted to that extent with their exclusive
right, as they are never entitled to but one royalty for a
patented machine, and consequently a patentee, when he has
himself constructed a machine and sold it without any conditions, or authorized another to construct, sell, and deliver it,
or to construct, use, and operate it, without any conditions,
and the consideration has been paid to him for the thing
patented, the rule is well established that the patentee must
be understood to have parted to that extent with all his exclusive right, and that he ceases to have any interest whatever
in the patented machine so sold and delivered or authorized
to be constructed and operated. Where such circumstances
appear, the owner of the machine, whether he built it or purchased it, if he has also acquired the right to use and operate
it during the lifetime of the patent, may continue to use it
until it is worn out, in spite of any and every extension subsequently obtained by the patentee or his assigns."
These cases were followed, and a step further taken, in the
case of Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall. 453, 456. There Lockhart
and Seelye owned, by assignment, all the right, title, and interest which patentees had in a certain patented coffin lid, in a
circular district of a diameter of ten miles, whereof the city of
Boston was the centre. Adams, also by assignment, was the
owner of all other rights under the patent. Burke, an undertaker, carried on his business at Natick, and within the territory
covered by the patent as owned by Adams. To a bill for an
infringement, filed by Adams in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Massachusetts, Burke pleaded
that the patent coffins used by him in his business were purchased by him from Lockhart and Seelye, and were sold to
him without condition or restriction.
The validity of his plea was sustained by the Circuit Court,
and its decree dismissing the bill was affirmed by this court.

OCTOBER TERMAI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Justice Miller, in giving the opinion of the court, said:
"In the essential nature of things, when the patentee, or the
person having his right, sells a machine or instrument whose
sole value is in its use, he receives the consideration for its use,
and he parts with the right to restrict that use. The article,
in the language of the court, passes without the limit of the
monopoly. That is to say, the patentee, or his assignee, having in the act of sale received all the royalty or consideration
which he claims for the use of his invention in that particular
machine or instrument, it is open to the use of the purchaser
without further restriction on account of the monopoly of the
patentee. .
.
A careful examination of the plea satisfies
us that the defendant, who, as an undertaker, purchased each
of these coffins, and used it in burying the body which he was
employed to bury, acquired the right to this use of it, freed
from any claim of the patentee, though purchased within the
ten-mile circle and used without it."
It is obvious that necessarily the use made by Burke of
these coffins involved a sale in every case. ie did not put
them to his personal use, unless we are permitted to suppose
that he was himself buried in each one of the coffins. le
bought the coffins for the purpose of selling them to others,
and the legal significance of the decision upholding his defence
is that a person who buys patented articles from a person who
has a right to sell, though within a restricted territory, has a
right to use and sell such articles in all and any part of the
United States; that when the royalty has once been paid to a
party entitled to receive it, the patented article then becomes
the absolute, unrestricted property of the purchaser, with the
right to sell it as an essential incident of such ownership.
That this was the meaning of this decision, not only appears
from the language used, and from the necessary legal effect
of the conclusion reached as between the parties, but from the
dissenting opinion of Justice Bradley, whose reasoning went
wholly upon the assumption that such was its meaning.
Boesch v. Grqf, 133 U. S. 697, is cited by the defendant in
error. But it is not out of line with the previous cases. The
exact question presented was whether a dealer residing in the

KEELER v. STANDARD FOLDING BED CO.

665

Opinion of the Court.

United States could purchase in another country articles
patented there from a person authorized there to sell them,
and import them to and sell them in the United States without the license or consent of the owners of the United States
patent, and the court held that the sale of articles in the United
States under a United States patent cannot be controlled
by foreign laws. In this case neither the patentee or any
assignee had ever received any royalty or given any license to
use the patented article in any part of the United States.
liobbie v. Jennison, 149 U. S. 355, is interesting as the last
opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Blatchford.
The facts were these: An assignee for Michigan, of a
patent for an improvement in pipes for conveying gas, water,
and other fluids, made, sold and delivered in Michigan pipes
made according to the patent, knowing that they were to be
laid in the streets of a city in Connecticut, a territory the
right for which the seller did not own under the patent, and
they were laid in that city. An action at law was brought in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Michigan by Hobbie, who was the owner, by assignment, of
the patent for the State of Connecticut, against Jennison, who,
under his rights as assignee for Michigan, made and sold
patented pipes to the Hartford Steam Supply Company,
which had a contract to lay pipes in Hartford, Connecticut.
A jury was waived, and the cause was tried before Judge
Brown, the District Judge, now a member of this court. The
decision and judgment of the Circuit Court were in favor of
the defendant, and that judgment was affirmed here.
What was principally discussed was the true interpretation
of Adams v. Burke, and an attempt was made to distinguish
the case in hand by the fact, made affirmatively to appear,
that the sale was made with the knowledge and intention
on the part of the defendant that the use would be at Hartford.
But this court was of the opinion that the case of Adams v.
Burke was applicable; that the sale was a complete one in
Michigan, and that neither the actual use of the pipes in
Connecticut, nor a knowledge on the part of the defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

that they were intended to be used there, would make him
liable.
This brief history of the cases shows that in Wilson v. Ro usseau, 4 How. 646, and cases following it, it was held that, as
between the owner of a patent on the one side, and a purchaser of an article made under the patent on the other, the
payment of a royalty once, or, what is the same thing, the
purchase of the article from one authorized by the patentee to
sell it, emancipates such article from any further subjection to
the patent throughout the entire life of the patent, even if the
latter should be by law subsequently extended beyond the
term existing at the time of the sale, and that in respect of
t,e time of enjoyment, by those decisions the right of the purchaser, his assigns or legal representatives, is clearly established to be entirely free from any further claim of the patentee
or any assignee; that in Adams v. Bwure, 17 Wall. 453, it was
held that, as respects the place of enjoyment, and as between
the purchaser of patented articles in one specified part of the
territory and the assignee of the patent of another part, the
right once legitimately acquired to hold, use, and sell will
protect such purchaser from any further subjection to the
monopoly; that in Holbie v. Jennison, 149 U. S. 355, it was
held that, as between assignees of different parts of the
territory, it is competent for one to sell the patented articles
to persons who intend, with the knowledge of the vendor, to
take them for use into the territory of the other.
Upon the doctrine of these cases we think it follows that
one who buys patented articles of manufacture from one
authorized to sell them becomes possessed of an absolute
property in such articles, unrestricted in time or place.
Whether a patentee may protect himself and his assignees
by special contracts brought home to the purchasers is not a
question before us, and upon which we express no opinion.
It is, however, obvious that such a question would arise as a
question of contract, and not as one under the inherent meaning and effect of the patent laws.
The conclusion reached does not deprive a patentee of his
just rights, because no article can be unfettered from the claim

KEELER v. STANDARD FOLDING BED CO.

667

Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J., Fuller, C.J., Field, J.

of his monopoly without paying its tribute. The inconvenience
and annoyance to the public that an opposite conclusion would
occasion are too obvious to require illustration.
These views render it unnecessary to consider other features
of the case.
The decree of the court below is reversed, and the cause
remanded with directions to dismiss the bill.
Reversed.
IMR. JUSTICE BROWN, with whom concurred THE CHIEF JUSTICE and Mr. JusTicE FIELD, dissenting.
The exact question presented by the record in this case is,
whether a dealer in patented articles, doing business in Massachusetts, and knowing that the right to manufacture, use, and
sell such articles within that State belongs to another, may
purchase such articles of the patentee in Michigan, in the
ordinary course of trade, for the purpose of resale in Massachusetts, and may sell them there in defiance of the rights of
the licensee.
The right to do this is supposed to arise from the fact that
the defendants, having once paid tribute to the patentee by
purchasing the patented articles of him, thereby acquired the
right to deal with such articles as they please, notwithstanding
that another has bought and paid for the exclusive right to
manufacture and sell them within their territory. The cases
in this court which are supposed to justify, or at least to lead
up to this conclusion, seem to me to fall far short of this somewhat startling result.
In Wilson v. Rousseau, 4: How. 646, it was decided, (1)
that the patent act of 1836 authorized an extension of a patent
to be granted to the administrator of the patentee, and that
such extension inured to the benefit of such administrator,
and not to an assignee under the original patent; (2) that the
plaintiff, claiming title under the extension to the administrator, could maintain an action for infringement of. the patent
within the territory specified in the assignment, against any
person not claiming under such assignment; and (3) that an

OCTOBER" TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J., Fuller, C.J., Field, J.

assignee who had purchased the right and was in use of the
patented machine at the time of the renewal had the right to
,continue such use during the extension. Although cited in
the opinion of the court, I am unable to see that it has any
bearing upon the case under consideration.
The case of Bloomer v. loQuewan, 14 How. 539, 549, did not
-differ materially from the prior one, although the Chief Justice draws a distinction between the grant of a right to make
and sell the machine, and the grant of a right to use it; and
in this connection makes use of an expression which has been
freely quoted in subsequent cases, and is now employed in
a way which seems to me destructive of the rights of the
licensee: "But the purchaser of the implement or machine
for the purpose of using it in the ordinary pursuits of life
stands on different ground. In using it he exercises no rights
-created by the act of Congress, nor does he derive title to it
by virtue of the franchise or exclusive privilege granted to
the patentee. . . . And when the machine passes to the
hands of the purchaser" (for such use) "it is no longer within
the limit of the monopoly. It passes outside of it, and is no
longer under the protection of the act of Congress." The
question in that case, however, concerned only the rights of
an assignee of a patent which had been extended, and the
point decided was that the assignee was entitled to continue
to use the patent during the extended period. In this connection there can be no question of the propriety of the language quoted. It would indeed be a strange principle to hold,
that a party who had bought a patented article during the
original term of the patent, should be obliged to pay an additional royalty for its use, if that term were extended.
In .fitchell v. .awley, 16 Wall. 544, the patentee assigned
to another the right to make and use, and to license others to
make and use, four of his machines during the original term
of the patent, with the express provision that the grantee
should not dispose of, sell, or license any one to use such
machine beyond the said term. The patent was extended for
seven years, and a grant to use the machines for the two
States in question during the extended term was made to

KEELER v. STANDARD FOLDING BED CO.

669

Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J., Fuller, C.J., Field, J.

another. In delivering the opinion of the court, Mr. Justice
Clifford quoted liberally the general language of the prior
cases, but held that the grantor, under whom the defendants
claimed, never acquired the right to sell the machines, and
give their purchasers the right to use them, beyond the term
of the original patent; and that notice to the defendants,
who had purchased their rights from the grantee of the original term, was not required, as the law imposed the risk upon
the purchaser, as against the real owner, of ascertaining
whether the title of the seller was such that he could make
a valid conveyance. In this case, the purchaser from the original grantee of the term was held affected with knowledge of
the terms of the grant from the patentee, which expressly
took from the assignee the right to sell or grant any license to
use the machines beyond the expiration of the original term.
This case seems to be a limitation upon the general doctrine
of the prior cases, that, by a purchase of the patentee, the
patented article is thereby taken out of the monopoly. So far
as the case is pertinent at all to the instant case, it favors
the position taken by the court below.
There are but three cases that have any direct bearing upon
the one under consideration, namely, Adams v. Burke, 17
Wall. 453; Boesch v. Grdf, 133 U. S. 697; and flobbie v. Jennison, 149 U. S. 355. In Adams v. Burke the original patentees assigned to a firm in Cambridge, Massachusetts, all
their right in the invention to a circular territory extending
ten miles from the city of Boston. Defendant, an undertaker
doing business at Natick, outside of this territory, bought certain coffins of the Cambridge firm, and used them in burying
the dead, but sold none, except so far as the use of the coffins
in his business could be considered as a sale. It was held that
the defendant, having purchased the coffins of one who had a
lawful right to sell them, had a right to use them anywhere ;
that the patentee, having received his consideration, the patented articles were no longer within the monopoly of the
patent. The case was treated both in the opinion of the court
and in the dissent, in which three Justices concurred, as a case
of use and not of sale, and Mr. Justice Miller in delivering the

OCTOBER TERAI, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J., Fuller, C.J., Field, J.

opinion observed: "Whatever, therefore, may be the rule
when patentees subdivide territorially their patents, as to the
exclusive right to make or to sell within a limited territory,
we hold that in the class of machines or implements we have
described, when they are once lawfully made and sold, there
is no restriction on their use to be implied for the benefit of
the patentee or his assignees or licensees." The dissenting
Justices were of opinion that the assignment did not confer upon the assignee the right to sell the patented article to
be used outside of his territory. There was no suggestion in
either opinion that a purchaser from the assignee had or could
have the right to deal in the patented article outside of the
territory in which the purchase was made.
In -Hobbiev. ennison an assignee for the State of Michigan
sold and delivered in that State certain patented gas and
water pipes, knowing that they were to be laid in the streets
of Hartford, Connecticut, a territory, the right for which the
seller did not own under the patent. The pipes were laid in
that city. It was held, following Adams v. Buqke, that the
seller was not liable, in an action for infringement, to the
owner of the patent for Connecticut. The action in this case
was brought not against the user, but against the manufacturer
and vendor of the patented article, and it was held that, as
the sale was completed in Michigan, neither the actual use
of the pipes in Connecticut, nor the knowledge on the part of
the defendants that they were intended to be used there,
could make them liable. This case also involved the right to
use and not to sell, and was held to be indistinguishable from
Adams v. Burke. It differed from that only in the fact that
the action was brought against the vendor.
The machines or implements thus referred to in these cases
are such articles as are exhausted or consumed in their use;
that is, where articles are of no value after a single use, there
is no restriction on their further use in favor of the patentee
or assignee. When a patented article of that kind, the
whole value of which consists in its use for a particular purpose, and which value ceases when its capability of use for
that purpose is gone, the monopoly of the patentee or his

KEELER v. STANDARD FOLDING BED CO.

671

Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J., Fuller, C.J., Field, J.

assignee over it must necessarily cease upon its sale to the
purchaser.
Upon the other hand, in Boesch v. Grff, 133 U. S. 697,
it was held that one who purchased articles covered by a
patent in a foreign country, and imported them into the
United States, could not sell them here without the license or
consent of the owner of the American patent, although they
were purchased in a foreign country from a person authorized
to sell them. This is the only case decided by this court in
which the right of a purchaser to sell patented articles outside
of the territory of his vendor has been drawn in question,
and I see no reason why the arguments, which moved the
court in that case to hold that this could not be done, do not
apply with equal cogency to a case where the patented articles
are bought within the United States. In both cases a tribute
has once been paid to the patentee, and the fact that that
tribute was paid in a foreign country works no apparent
difference in the principle.
IVL this connection the following decisions of the Circuit
Courts, though not binding upon us as authority, are at least
entitled to respectful consideration: In Batch v. Adams, 22
Fed. Rep. 434, it was held by Judge McKennan that a
purchaser of patented articles from a territorial assignee of"
the patent does not acquire the right to sell the articles, in
the course of trade, outside of the territory granted to his
vendor. A like ruling was made in the Southern District
of New York by Judge Wheeler, in Batch v. -Hal, 22 Fed.
Rep. 438, and 30 Fed. Rep. 613, and in the Circuit Court for
the Northern, District of California in the California E
.ectrical Works v. PFinck, Judge Hawley, 47 Fed. Rep. 583.
In view of the cases of Adams v. Buwke and Hobbie v.
Jennison, this court must be considered as committed to the
doctrine that a vendee, purchasing a patented article of the
patentee or his licensee, has a right to make use of the same
wherever he may take it, notwithstanding the fact that the
purchase be made with the knowledge of the vendor that
the article is to be used in the territory of another, and with the
knowledge of the vendee that the territory in which he pro-

OCTOBER TERM,

1894.

Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J., Fuller, C.J., Field, J.

poses to use it is owned by another. We are now asked to
take another step in advance, and hold that a rival dealer,
with notice of the territorial rights of a licensee or assignee,
may purchase any quantity of patented articles of the patentee, and sell them in his own territory in defiance of the
right of the assignee in guch territory. To this proposition I
am unable to give my assent.
By Rev. Stat. sec. 4898, "Every patent, or any interest therein,
shall be assignable in law by an instrument in writing, and
the patentee or his assigns or legal representatives may, in like
manner, grant and convey an exclusive right under his patent
to the whole or any specified part of the United States." The
object of this statute is to vest in the licensee the exclusive right
of the original patentee to make, use, and sell the invention
or discovery within the territory assigned, and to take to himself the profit upon every article sold in such territory. This
right is presumed to be a valuable one, and is entitled to the
protection of the courts and to a reasonable construction, in so
far as it does not infringe upon the rights of others, who may
have purchased the patented articles of one who had a lawful
right to sell them. That one who makes use of or sells a patented article in ignorance of the fact that it is patented, is liable
as an infringer, is entirely well settled. (Walker on Patents,
secs. 377, 569; 3 Robinson on Patents, see. 901.) Yet we are
asked to hold in this case that one, who is fully informed of
the rights of a territorial assignee, may deal in the patented articles in defiance of such assignee, upon the ground that he has
once submitted to the exactions of the patentee by purchasing
the article of one who had a right to sell it. There is reason
for saying that a person who has once paid tribute to the patentee shall not be called upon to pay tribute a second time, by
reason of using the article elsewhere, but to say that he may
purchase such articles for the deliberate purpose of entering
into competition with a local licensee, is utterly destructive of
the right of the latter to deal in the patented article. Under
this rule a patentee may assign his right to make and sell the
patented article in every State in the Union except his own;
may there establish a manufactory, and may, by his superior

DAVIS & RANKIN BUILDING CO. v. BARBER.

673

Opinion of the Court.

facilities, greater capital, more thorough knowledge of the
business, or more extensive acquaintance, undersell his own
licensees, drive them out of business, and utterly destroy the
value of -their licenses. In my view this cannot be done, and
I am, therefore, compelled to dissent from the opinion of the
court.
I am authorized to state that The Chief Justice and Mr.
Justice Field concur in this dissent.

DAVIS

AND RANKIN BUILDING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. BARBER.

ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

TATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. S1S.

Submitted March 25, 1895. -D Decided April 8, 1S95.

On the authority of -,aynardv. Hecht, 151 U. S. 324, and Colvin v. Jacksonville, 157 U. S. 368, this case is dismissed for want of a certificate from
the Circuit Court certifying the question of its jurisdiction for decision
here.
MOTION

to dismiss.

The case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. Geoege A. Knight and .Xr. J. A. Ho.utt for the
motion.
ir.

L. T. .licener and Air. George Shirts opposing.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE:

This was an action brought against

certain subscribers to a contract to recover damages for its
breach. Defendants demurred upon the grounds that the
court had no jurisdiction over the subject-matter of the action,
and that the complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against them. The demurrers were
sustained and judgment rendered in favor of defendants on
June 28, 1892. The writ of error from this court was sued
VOL. CLVI-43

