OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

appellate jurisdiction, and that the absence of such certificate
is fatal to the maintenance of the appeal. See likewise Shields
v. Coleman, ante, 168.
A2 2peal dismissed.

STEVENS'S ADMINISTRATOR v. NICHTOLS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF aISSOURI.
No. 769. Submitted March 18, 1895. -Decided

April 1, 1S95.

The denial by a state court of an application to amend a petition for the
removal of the cause to a Federal court is not the denial of a right
secured by the Constitution of the United States.
MOTION to dismiss or affirm. In January, 1881, the defendant in error as plaintiff commenced a proceeding in the Circuit
Court of Pettis County, Missouri, to procure the issue of executions against Robert S. Stevens and another as stockholders in
the Texas & Atlantic Refrigerator Car Company, against which
he had previously recovered a judgment. This proceeding
was based upon section 736, Rev. Stats. Missouri, 1879 (now
section 9517, Rev. Stats. 1889). The proceeding was removed
by the defendants to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Western District of Missouri. In that court upon
proper pleadings a trial was had resulting in a verdict and
judgment in favor of the plaintiff and against each defendant for a separate amount. Stevens brought the judgment
against him to this court by writ of error, but on examination
it was found that the petition for removal was defective, in
that it failed to allege the existence of diverse citizenship at
the time of the commencement of the proceeding as well as at
the time of the application for the removal. The case was,
therefore, sent back to the United States Circuit Court, with
instructions to remand it to the state court. Stevens v. .lichols,
130 U. S. 230. This order was carried into effect by the United
States Circuit Court. In the state court thereafter an application was made for leave to amend the petition for the removal

STEVENS'S ADMINISTRATOR v. NICHOLS.

371

Opinion of the Court.

so as to include an allegation of diverse citizenship at the time
of the commencement of the proceeding. This application
was denied. Subsequently a trial was had and a judgment
rendered in favor of the plaintiff and against the defendant
Stevens, which judgment was affirmed in the Supreme Court
of the State. 'Whereupon defendant Stevens sued out this
writ of error.
.Mr. George P. B. Jackson for the motion.
AMr. George A. MYfadill, Mir. John X H1olmes, and _ib'. James
A. Carr opposing.
MR. JUsTicE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of the State held that the refusal of
the trial court to permit the defendant to amend his petition
for removal was proper. Amendments of pleadings or other
proceedings are as a rule matters of discretion with the trial
court, and a writ of error will not lie to review its action
in respect thereto. Walden v. Craig,9 Wheat. 576; Chiiracv.
]?einicker,11 Wheat. 280; United States v. Buford, 3 Pet. 12;
_Matheson's Administratorsv. Grant's Administrator,2 How.
263.
The denial by a state court of an application to amend a
petition for removal is therefore not the denial of any right
secured by the Constitution of the United States. Crehore v.
Ohio & MississippiRailway, 131 U. S. 240; Pennsylvania Co.
v. Bender, 148 U. S. 255. The judgment is
_4ffrmed.

