CITY & LAKE RAILROAD v. NEW ORLEANS.

219

Statement of the Case.

ownership, yet that was qualified by the representation, and
the measure of the operation of the estoppel was limited
accordingly. The doctrine invoked is purely equitable and
ought not to be extended, under circumstances like these,
beyond permitting the person misled to recover indemnification. Campbell v. Nichols, 33 N. J. Law, 81, 88 ; Gr'issler v.
Powers, 81 N. Y. 57. The extent of the loss which Seeley
and Wood would sustain, if the truth of the representation
were denied, would be the money they had paid, and to that it
appears to us their interest in the judgment must be confined
in the most favorable view that can be taken of the position
they occupied. And, upon the whole, as Baker put it in the
power of Hulburd to act as he did, that result probably best
accords with the equities of the case. The assignments
should be cancelled and Wood and Seeley's administrator decreed to account for the amounts received, less the amount
paid, with interest.
Decree reversed and cause remanded with a directionto enter
a decreefor complainant in conformity with this opinion.

NEW ORLEANS CITY AND LAKE RAILROAD
COMPANY v. LOUISIANA ex rel. CITY OF NEW
ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 29. Submitted January 10, 1595. - Decided March 4, 1S95.

The act of the legislature of Louisiana of July 12, 1888, No. 133, authorizing the enforcement by mandamus without a jury of contracts by corporations with municipal corporations in that State with reference to
the paving, grading, repairing, etc., of streets, highways, bridges, etc.,
simply gives an additional remedy to the party entitled to the performance, without impairing any substantial right of the other party, does
not impair the obligation of the contract sought to be enforced, and is
not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States.

AT October term, 1890, a motion was made by -M!r. Samuel
1. Gilmore on behalf of the defendant in error to dismiss the

OCTOBER TERAN, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

writ of error in this case, then No. 1314: on the docket of that
term, or to affirm the judgment of the court below. This
motion was opposed by 3h'. Ctarles F. Buck for the plaintiff
in error, and was denied by the court April 6, 1891, without
an opinion. The case now decided is stated in the opinion.
]Valter .D. Den~gre for the
11
Mlir. George .Den~gre and
plaintiff in error submitted on their brief.
3hi-. E A. O'Sullivan for the defendant in error submitted
on his brief.
M . JUSTcE HARLAX delivered the opinion of the court.
By the first section of an act of the general assembly of
Louisiana, approved July 12, 1888, No. 133, and entitled "An
act providing a summary remedy against corporations to compel a compliance with certain obligations and contracts with
municipal corporations, and providing ways and means to enforce said remedy," Laws of 1888, 191, it was provided that
"in all cases where any corporation has heretofore contracted
with, or may hereafter contract with, or shall be otherwise
legally bound to any parish or municipal corporation in this
State, with reference to the paving, grading, repairing, reconstructing, or care of any street, highway, bridge, culvert,
levee, canal, ditch, or crossing, and shall fail or neglect to perform said contract or obligation, the said parish or municipal corporation, or any officer thereof, or any five taxpayers'
thereof, shall have the right to proceed by a writ of mandamus to compel the performance of said contract or obligation,
or any part thereof, which writ of mandamus shall be made
returnable in five days, shall be tried by preference over all
other cases, without a jury, in vacation as well as in term
time, and in case of appeal shall be tried by preference in the
appellate court."
The second section provided that "in case iny corporation
shall fail or neglect to comply satisfactorily with any judgment against it in such a proceeding within the time therein

CITY & LAKE RAILROAD v. NEW ORLEANS.

221

Opinion of the Court.

fixed, (which time shall be fixed by the court at such period
within which the work can be reasonably done,) it shall be
the duty of the court, on contradictory motion and proof
taken in the same case, to issue a writ of distringas against
said company, and to order the sheriff to do the work required to be done, and to apply the revenues and property of
said company to defray the expenses incurred in executing
the judgment of the court."
The third section repeals all laws and parts of laws contrary to the provisions of that act.
The State of Louisiana on the relation of the city of New
Orleans - evidently proceeding under the above act - filed
a petition in the Civil District Court, parish of Orleans,
against the New Orleans City and Lake Railroad Company,
in which it was alleged, among other things That under the terms of certain contracts and ordinances,
whereby the defendant was operating the Levee and Barracks, -Camp and Prytania, Camp and Magazine, Rampart
and Dauphine, Canal Street, Metaric Road and Bayou St.
John, the Esplanade and Bayou Bridge lines, and the steam
railway to the Lake, the New Orleans City and Lake Railroad Company was "bound and obligated, among other
things, to keep the paved and unpaved streets, through which
its tracks pass, as well as all the bridges on said streets, in
good repair and condition from curb to curb during the continuance of its franchise and right of way; to raise, repair,
and repave any and all intersections of streets when required
by relator upon lines and levels to be furnished by the city
surveyor; to widen and deepen any and all culverts and
sluices to such dimensions as may be required and directed by
the city surveyor; to keep in repair all bridges, and to make
new ones, when required by relator, on all streets through
which its lines pass; to pave, on all unpaved streets through
which its lines pass, the lines of said tracks within the rails
with either round stones or with four by five inch scantling
in the best workmanlike manner, and to plank the space between the lines of the track and the gutters of the streets
with yellow pine planks three inches thick, laid on stringers

OCTOBER TER-M, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

four inches thick by eight inches wide, and to use flat rails
for its tracks, and to keel ) its tracks in repair and good condition; that by the terms of the said contracts, acts, and
ordinances under which it is operating the extension of the
Camp and Prytania line and the extension of the Camp and
Magazine line, the said New Orleans City and Lake Railroad
Company is bound and obligated, among other things, to construct all crossings, bridges, culverts, and wings of the same
on the streets through which its tracks pass which, in the
opinion of the commissioner of public works and the city surveyor, are at any time needed, and to keep the said streets
between the banquette curb lines, including all plankings,
crossings, bridges, culverts, and wings of the same, and also
all the intersections of the streets of this route at all times,
in good roadway order and condition; to use flat rails, five
inches, resting on suitable change at their ends, as well spiked
with six-inch wrought-iron spikes; to traversely plank the
entire space between the rails and tracks with three bytwelve
inches milled pine, and to place along the two outer sides of
the tramways throughout this route, close to the stringers and
on a level with the top of the rail one plank not less than
three by twelve inches in dimension, and to keep its tracks in
good order and condition;" and
That "in violation of its said obligations, the said New
Orleans City and Lake Railroad Company, although thereunto often requested, neglects and refuses to keep the streets
through which its tracks pass in good order and condition; to
repair and keep in good condition the bridges and intersections on said streets; to provide the proper drainage and to
build and keep in repair the proper culverts; to use the flat
rails; to plank upon unpaved streets referred to in said contracts the space between the lines of the tracks and the
gutters of the streets as required by said contracts, and to
place the 3 by 12 inches plank level with the top of the rails
on the streets referred to in said contracts where there are
double tracks, or to keep in repair such planking where it has
been placed on the streets referred to in said contracts where
there are single tracks, and has in many other divers ways

CITY & LAKE RAILROAD v. NEW ORLEANS.

223

Opinion of the Court.

violated its contracts with relator and the law, all of which
will more fully and at large appear from the report of the
city surveyor and the further bill of particulars which is hereunto annexed and made part hereof."
The relief asked was a writ of mandamus to compel the
defendant to perform all the above matters and things which
under said contracts and by law it was obligated to do and
perform.
An exception and answer was filed, one of the grounds of
exception and of defence being that the above act of 1888
was in violation of the contract clause of the Constitution of
the United States.
By the final judgment of the court of original jurisdiction
the mandamus was made peremptory, and the defendant was
required to commence and to complete within three months
from the date of the rendition of the judgment certain described work and repairs on streets and roads specified in the
petition.
Upon writ of error to the Supreme Court of Louisiana the
judgment was amended by striking out that portion which imposed on the defendant company the obligation of keeping in
good order and condition the streets or roadways on the sides
of the middle or neutral grounds on Canal, Rampart, and
Esplanade Streets, in New Orleans, and by rejecting the demands in that respect. Thus amended, the judgment was
affirmed at the cost of the railroad company.
The only Federal question presented upon this writ of error
is whether the act of 1888 is repugnant to the clause of the
Constitution forbidding States from passing a law impairing the obligation of contracts.
That statute does not embrace contracts between private
individuals nor contracts of every description, but only those
by or under which private corporations, parties to such contracts, become legally bound to a parish or to a municipal corporation in reference to the paving, repairing, reconstructing,
or care of any street, highway, bridge, culvert, levee, canal,
ditch, or crossing, belonging to or under the control of such
municipal corporation. The prompt discharge of the duties

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

imposed by contracts of that character is of importance to the
public. Indeed, the refusal to meet the obligations imposed
by such contracts often endangers both the health and safety
of the people. Delay in such matters may seriously imperil
the interests of an entire community. An action at law to
recover damages for a failure or refusal of the defaulting corporation to do what its contract obliges it to do might prove
to be inadequate for the protection of those interests.
What the act of 1888 does is to give a parish or municipal
corporation an additional and more summary remedy for the
enforcement of the obligation of any contract relating to the
paving, repairing, reconstructing, or care of its streets, highways, bridges, culverts, levees, canals, ditches, or crossings.
It does not enlarge the obligation assumed by the defaulting
corporation, nor impose new burdens upon such corporation,
but only enables the other party to the contract, the public,
as represented by the parish or municipality, to compel the
performance of that obligation. Modes of procedure in the
courts of a State are so far within its control that a particular
remedy existing at the time of the making of a contract may
be abrogated altogether without impairing the obligation of
the contract if another and equally adequate remedy for the
enforcement of that obligation 'remains or is substituted for
the one taken away. Bronson v. fenzie, 1 I-ow. 311, 315;
F-on Hoffman v. Quincy, 4 Wall. 535, 552; Conn. _ife Ins.
Co. v. Cushman, 108 U. S. 51, 64; fcGahey v. "Virginia,135
U. S. 662, 693. MLuch more may the State give an additional
and more efficacious remedy for the enforcement of contracts in the performance of which the public health and the
public safety are involved; provided always, that the new
remedy is consistent with the nature of the obligation to be
enforced, and does not impair any substantial right given by the
contract. One who engages by contract to do a certain thing
cannot claim that the obligation he has assumed is impaired
by legislation that is designed only to enforce performance of
his obligation.
The plaintiff in error relies with confidence upon State
ex rel. 2few Orleans v. NV. 0. & Carrollton Raili'oad Corn-

PENN. RAILROAD v. WABASH &c. RAILWAY.

225

Syllabus.

jpany, 37 La. Ann. 589, determined by the Supreme Court of

Louisiana in 1885. That was an application for a writ of
mandamus against a railroad company to compel it to perform
the obligation it had assumed by what the court regarded as
an express written contract with the city of New Orleans to
repair certain streets in that municipality. The court held
that the writ was properly refused, the principal reason being
that, according to the principles of the law of mandamus, the
remedy by mandamus cannot be invoked to enforce obligations arising simply from contract as distinguished from a
duty imposed by law. It is said, and it is probably true, that
the act of 1888 was passed in order to overcome the difficulties suggested by that decision. However this may be, it is
clear that the question here is wholly different from that presented in the other case. That question, as we have seen, is
whether a statute authorizing the enforcement, by writ of
mandamus sued out by a parish or by a municipal corporation,
of contracts such as are described in the act of 1888, is a law
forbidden by the contract clause of the Constitution.
We hold, for the reasons we have stated, that such a law,
simply giving an additional remedy to the party entitled to
performance, without impairing any substantial right of the
other party, does not impair the obligation of the contract
sought to be enforced.
Judgmnt aftirmed.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. WABASH,
ST. LOUIS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 15S. Argued and submitted January 18, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 1895.

The Pennsylvania Company notified the Wabash Company that after a date
named no ticket sold by that company would be recognized as entitling
the holder to pass over the Pennsylvania road. The Wabash Company
after that date sold a ticket for a passage over the Pennsylvania road.
When the purchaser reached that road he offered his ticket to the conductor. The conductor refused to take it, and, when the holder of it
VOL. CLVII-15

