OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES IN
CHAMBERS

O'CONNOR, BY HER PARENTS AND NEXT FRIENDS,
O'CONNOR ET Ux. v. BOARD OF EDUCATION
OF SCHOOL DISTRICT 23 ET AL.
ON APPLICATION TO VACATE STAY

No. A-384.

Decided November 4, 1980

An application to vacate the Court of Appeals' stay pending appeal of
the District Court's preliminary injunction requiring respondent school
officials to allow plaintiff-applicant, a female junior high school student,
to try out for the boys' basketball teams, is denied. As required by an
interscholastic athletic conference's rules, the school maintained separate
teams for boys and girls for contact sports, including basketball, and
the refusal to allow applicant to try out for the boys' teams was based
solely on her sex. The Court of Appeals' en banc decision to continue
the stay entered by a panel of the court is entitled to great deference.
It appears at this stage of the proceedings that the gender-based classification, which apparently was adopted in full compliance with the regulations of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, is reasonable
in substantially all of its applications, and it cannot be said to be
unconstitutional simply because it might appear arbitrary in an individual case such as applicant's. Without a gender-based classification
in competitive contact sports, there would be a substantial risk that
boys would dominate the girls' programs and deny them an equal
opportunity to compete in interscholastic events.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

Circuit Justice.

On October 27, 1980, a panel of the United States Court
of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit granted a stay pending
appeal of a preliminary injunction entered by the District
Court in favor of the plaintiff. Two days later, the Court
of Appeals sitting en banc entered an order continuing the
stay. The plaintiff has submitted to me, in my capacity as
Circuit Justice, an application to vacate this stay. For the
1301

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

449 U. S.

reasons explained below, I have decided not to vacate the
stay entered by the Court of Appeals.
I
On October 22, 1980, plaintiff Karen O'Connor, represented
by her father and her mother, filed a verified complaint and
a motion for a temporary restraining order and preliminary
injunction, supported by appropriate affidavits, in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.
Her papers allege the following facts which, since they have
not yet been denied or contradicted by countervailing affidavits or evidence, must be accepted as true.
Karen is an 11-year-old sixth-grade student at MacArthur
Junior High School; she is 4'11" tall and weighs 103 pounds.
For at least four years she has successfully competed with
boys in various organized basketball programs. A professional basketball coach who witnessed her play with boys and
girls aged 10 to 13 during the summer of 1980 rates her
ability as equal to or better than a female high school sophomore player and equal to that of a male eighth-grade player.
MacArthur Junior High School is a member of the MidSuburban Junior High School Conference, an association of
six junior high schools engaged in interscholastic athletics.
MacArthur has programs for seventh-grade and for eighthgrade teams; sixth-grade students are eligible to try out for
both the seventh-grade and the eighth-grade teams. Students of either sex may compete on the same teams in some
noncontact sports, but Conference rules require separate
teams for boys and girls for contact sports. Contact sports
include "boxing, wrestling, rugby, ice hockey, football, basketball and other sports the purpose of major activity of which
involves bodily contact." See Complaint 35.
On August 27, 1980, Karen's father requested that she be
permitted to try out for the boys' basketball teams. After
a series of requests and refusals, Karen and her parents com-

O'CONNOR v. BOARD OF EDUCATION
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

menced this litigation, seeking both a temporary order re-

quiring defendants to allow her to participate in the tryouts
which were originally scheduled to commence on October 27,
1980, and permanent relief allowing her to play in interscholastic competition if she made either the seventh-grade or the
eighth-grade team.
After an adversary hearing, on October 23, 1980, the District Court rendered an oral opinion and granted temporary
relief to the plaintiff.

The court held that the plaintiff had

established a likelihood of success on the merits and that she
would suffer irreparable injury if temporary relief was denied.
The court concluded that she had a constitutionally protected
interest in equal access to training and competition that would
develop her athletic talents. The court rejected the two
justifications presented by the defendants at the hearing.
First, without deciding whether the provision of separate
but equal facilities to male and female students would avoid
any constitutional objection, the District Court found that the
separate programs offered by the defendants were not in fact
equal because Karen's opportunity to compete with persons of
substantially lesser skill in the girls' program was not as
valuable as the opportunity to compete with those who are
equal or superior to her in ability in the boys' program.
Second, the defendants argued that if they allowed Karen to
try out for the boys' teams, they would have to allow boys
to try out for the girls' teams, and since boys generally have
superior athletic ability, the boys would dominate the girls'
programs and ultimately deprive girls of a fair opportunity

to engage in competitive athletics. The District Court rejected this argument, stating merely that the defendants had
not persuaded it that there were no less restrictive alternatives available, other than completely separate programs classified entirely on the basis of sex.
The District Court refused to grant a stay pending appeal.
As I understand the facts, defendants thereafter (1) post-

1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

449 U. S.

poned the tryouts; 1 (2) filed an appeal from the preliminary
injunction requiring them to allow Karen to try out for the
boys' teams; and (3) applied to the Court of Appeals for a
stay of the District Court's injunction. On October 27, by a
vote of 2 to 1, a three-judge panel granted a stay, without
opinion. On October 29, 1980, the Court of Appeals, sitting
en banc, voted 5 to 3 to continue the stay pending the appeal.
On October 31, 1980, the plaintiff filed her petition to vacate
the stay entered by the Court of Appeals, supported by
various papers filed in the District Court and the Court of
Appeals. Defendants filed their response on November 3,
1980.
II
Although I have the power, acting as Circuit Justice, to
dissolve the stay entered by the Court of Appeals, Holtzman
v. Schlesinger, 414 U. S. 1304, 1308 (1973) (MARSHALL, J.,
in chambers), this power is to be exercised "with the greatest
of caution and should be reserved for exceptional circumstances." Ibid. A Court of Appeals' decision to enter a stay
is entitled to great deference, Commodity Futures Trading
Comm'n v. British American Commodity Options Corp., 434
U. S. 1316, 1319 (1977) (MARSHALL, J., in chambers); such
deference is especially appropriate when the Court of Appeals
has acted en banc. Nevertheless, the question presented by
the application is sufficiently difficult to justify careful consideration.' In answering that question, I shall first identify
certain propositions that seem to be adequately established.
papers filed on behalf of Karen in this Court suggest that the
defendants rescheduled the tryouts in order to deprive Karen of the
opportunity to try out for the boys' teams while the defendants sought
a stay from the Court of Appeals. The defendants assert that the rescheduling was required because of the postponement, due to inclement weather,
of another athletic event. Because the motive underlying the rescheduling
is not relevant to the question presented here, resolution of this factual
conflict is unnecessary.
2 The difficulty of the question presented by the defendants' request for
1The

O'CONNOR v. BOARD OF EDUCATION
1301

1305

Opinion in Chambers

First, there is no dispute about the fact that the defendants
have acted under color of state law and that their refusal
to allow Karen to try out for the boys' teams is based solely
on the fact that she is a girl. Whether or not Karen's interest in improving her athletic skills is characterized as "fundamental" or something less, I think it is clear that the
defendants have the burden of justifying a discrimination of
this kind.
Second, since the burden of justification was on the defendants, at this stage of the proceeding the stay entered by the
Court of Appeals cannot be upheld on grounds not yet supported by the record, even though it may remain open to the
defendants to offer additional evidence at a full trial. Thus,
for example, the defendants have preserved the right to offer
evidence to support the proposition that the exclusion of girls
from the boys' teams is necessary to protect female athletes
from harm. They were unable to present evidence supporting such a justification at the preliminary hearing, however,
and therefore this justification is not available to them at this
stage of this proceeding. Defendants have also made no claim
that the boys' athletic program would be harmed in any way
by allowing Karen to participate.3 Nor have they suggested
a stay is illustrated by the fact that Judge Cudahy, a member of the
majority of the panel which granted the stay on October 27, dissented
from the Court of Appeals' en banc decision to continue the stay on
October 29.
3In their response filed in this Court, the defendants have suggested that
the girls' basketball program will be injured if Karen is allowed to participate in the boys' program, because the girls' program will then be
deprived of its best athlete. This justification, like the need to protect
female athletes from physical or psychological harm, while plausible, is
not supported by the present record. It cannot, therefore, be used as a
basis for upholding the stay entered by the Court of Appeals. The fact
that defendants advance this argument indicates that they regard Karen
as still eligible to participate in the girls' program even though she declined to participate in the girls' tryouts while this matter has been
pending.

1306

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

449 U. S.

that the exclusion of Karen is necessary in order to protect
Karen from harm.
Third, although the record is incomplete, plaintiff does not
appear to dispute defendants' representation that the separate
athletic programs for the girls are equal to the boys' programs
in the sense that the time, money, personnel, and facilities
devoted to each are equal. Defendants are therefore correct
in putting to one side the cases in which a number of courts
have ordered schools to allow girls to participate on boys'
teams following a showing that the girls' programs were
inferior.
Fourth, in deciding whether to vacate the stay, I have a
duty to consider the potential of irreparable harm to the
respective parties. Although defendants have argued to the
contrary, I am persuaded that the District Court was correct
in concluding that, if Karen will probably succeed on the
merits, she would suffer greater harm than would the defendants by allowing her to try out for the boys' teams. I am
therefore persuaded that the stay can only be supported by
the sufficiency of the defendants' showing that there is an
adequate reason for discriminating against Karen because
of her sex.
In my opinion, the question whether the discrimination is
justified cannot depend entirely on whether the girls' program will offer Karen opportunities that are equal in all
respects to the advantages she would gain from the higher
level of competition in the boys' program. The answer must
depend on whether it is permissible for the defendants to
structure their athletic programs by using sex as one criterion
for eligibility. If the classification is reasonable in substantially all of its applications, I do not believe that the general
rule can be said to be unconstitutional simply because it
appears arbitrary in an individual case.'
4 1 share District Judge Marshall's view that if attention is confined
to the application of the rule to Karen-rather than to the general

O'CONNOR v. BOARD OF EDUCATION
1301

Opinion in Chambers

It seems to me that there can be little question about the
validity of the classification in most of its normal applications. Without a gender-based classification in competitive
contact sports, there would be a substantial risk that boys
would dominate the girls' programs and deny them an equal
opportunity to compete in interscholastic events. The defendants' program appears to have been adopted in full com-

pliance with the regulations promulgated by the Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare.' Although such compliance certainly does not confer immunity on the defendants,
validity of the rule--the discrimination does appear arbitrary. In some
respects, Karen's claim is no different from that of any other sixth or
seventh grader. The younger children are permitted to try out for the
eighth-grade teams, but the eighth graders are excluded frGm the seventhgrade teams because their participation would be unfair to the younger
students. The fact that an eighth grader must face competition from
talented seventh graders without reciprocal rights indicates that there is
no necessary reason why boys may not be required to compete with
talented girls without reciprocal rights. I would also note that Karen's
claim is supported by the Court's equal protection analysis in Caban v.
Mohammed, 441 U. S. 380, 391-394 (1979); see id., at 409-412 (STEvENs,
J., dissenting).
The Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, pursuant to Title
IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U. S. C. ยง 1681, promulgated regulations designed to eliminate discrimination on the basis of sex
in education programs and activities receiving federal financial assistance.
One of these regulations, specifically addressing gender-based discrimination in athletic programs, provides in part:
"[A] recipient may operate or sponsor separate teams for members of
each sex where selection for such teams is based upon competitive skill
or the activity involved is a contact sport. However, where a recipient
operates or sponsors a team in a particular sport for members of one sex
but operates or sponsors no such team for members of the other sex, and
athletic opportunities for members of that sex have previously been
limited, members of the excluded sex must be allowed to try-out for the
team offered unless the sport involved is a contact sport. For the purposes of this part, contact sports include boxing, wrestling, rugby, ice
hockey, football, basketball and other sports the purpose of major activity
of which involves bodily contact." 45 CFR ยง 86.41 (b) (1979).

1308

O'CONNOR v. BOARD OF EDUCATION

Opinion in Chambers

449 U. S.

it does indicate a strong probability that the gender-based
classification can be adequately justified. At least that probability is sufficient to persuade me that I should adhere to
the practice of according deference to the judgment of the
majority of my colleagues on the Court of Appeals.
The application to vacate the stay is denied.

