CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
COLORADO v. BANNISTER
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT
OF COLORADO

No. 79-1901.

Decided October 20, 1980

Shortly after a police officer observed a speeding automobile, he heard a
police radio dispatch which reported that a theft of motor vehicle parts,
*including chrome lug nuts, had occurred in the area, and which described two suspects. A few minutes later, he again spotted the speeding automobile and followed it into a service station for the purpose
of issuing a traffic citation. As he approached the car, respondent and
his companion stepped out of it, and during an ensuing conversation
with the car's occupants the officer observed chrome lug nuts and
lug wrenches in plain view in the car. Recognizing that the car's
occupants met the description of the suspects, the officer arrested them
and seized the lug nuts and wrenches. Before respondent's trial on
charges of stealing motor vehicle parts, the trial court granted his
motion to suppress the seized items, and the Colorado Supreme Court
affirmed.
Held: The circumstances in this case provided probable cause for the
officer's seizure of the incriminating items without a warrant. Cf.
Carroll v. United States, 267 U. S. 132; Chambers v. Maroney, 399
U. S. 42.
Certiorari granted; 199 Colo. 281, 607 P. 2d 987, vacated and remanded.
PER CURIAM.

In the early morning of October 15, 1979, an officer of the
Colorado Springs Police Department observed a blue 1967
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Per Curiam

449 U. S.

Pontiac GTO automobile moving along a road at a speed
above the legal limit. Before the officer could pursue the
vehicle, it disappeared from his sight. Shortly thereafter, the
officer heard a police radio dispatch reporting that a theft of
motor vehicle parts had occurred in the area he was patrolling
in his car. The radio dispatch announced that a number of
chrome lug nuts were among the items stolen, and provided
a description of two suspects. A few minutes after hearing
the report, the officer spotted the same automobile he had seen
earlier, still speeding. He saw the car enter a service station,
and followed it there for the purpose of issuing a traffic citation to its driver.
As the officer approached the car, both of its occupants, including the respondent, stepped out of it. A conversation
between the officer and the respondent ensued, just outside
the closed front door of the automobile. At this time, the
officer observed chrome lug nuts in an open glove compartment located between the vehicle's front bucket seats, as
well as two lug wrenches on the floorboard of the back seat.
These items were in plain view, illuminated by the lights of
the service station. Recognizing that the respondent and his
companion met the description of those suspected of stealing
motor vehicle parts, the officer immediately arrested both of
them. He then seized the lug nuts and wrenches.
Before the date scheduled for his trial on charges of stealing motor vehicle parts, the respondent moved to suppress the
items that the arresting officer had seized. The trial court
granted the motion, and its decision was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Colorado.1 The State subsequently filed a
petition for certiorari in this Court.
The provisions of the Fourth Amendment are enforceable
against the States through the Fourteenth, and it is axiomatic
that "searches conducted outside the judicial process, without
prior approval by judge or magistrate, are per se unreasonable
1 199 Colo. 281, 607 P. 2d 987 (1980).

COLORADO v. BANNISTER
1

Per Curiam

under the Fourth Amendment-subject only to a few specifically established and well-delineated exceptions." Katz v.
United States, 389 U. S. 347, 357 (1967).
One of these
exceptions, recognized at least since Carroll v. United States,
267 U. S. 132 (1925), exists when an automobile or other
vehicle is stopped and the police have probable cause to
believe it contains evidence of a crime. See Arkansas v.
Sanders, 442 U. S. 753, 760 (1979). Carroll upheld the legality of a search that was conducted immediately after a vehicle
was stopped. Since Carroll, warrantless searches have been
found permissible even when a car was searched after being
seized and moved to a police station. Texas v. White, 423
U. S. 67 (1975); Chambers v. Maroney, 399 U. S. 42 (1970).
In each of these latter cases, the search was constitutionally
permissible because an immediate, on-the-scene search would
have been permissible. Texas v. White, supra, at 68; Chambers v. Maroney, supra, at 52.
At issue in the present case is a seizure that occurred on the
scene shortly after a speeding car was stopped. Thus, if
there was probable cause "that the contents of the automobile
offend against the law," Carroll,supra, at 159, the warrantless
seizure was permissible.'
Probable cause in this case is self-evident. Indeed, the
Supreme Court of Colorado acknowledged that there was
probable cause, but mistakenly concluded that a warrant was
required to open the car door and seize the items within.
The officer could not stop the vehicle the first time he
2

Another factor that contributes to the justification for the absence of
a warrant in such a situation is that "the circumstances that furnish probable cause to search a particular auto for particular articles are most
often unforeseeable." Chambers, 399 U. S., at 50-51. See also Cardwell
v. Lewis, 417 U. S. 583, 595 (1974). This factor applies with particular
force in this case. As the reason for the istop was wholly unconnected
with the reason for the subsequent seizure, it would be especially unreasonable to require a detour to a magistrate before the unanticipated evidence could be lawfully seized.

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Per Curiam

449 U. S.

detected it speeding, but he accosted it at his next opportunity, when it entered the service station. His subsequent
approach to the side of the automobile in order to issue a
traffic citation to its driver was entirely legitimate.' Standing by the front door of the car, the officer happened to see
items matching the description of some of those recently
stolen in the vicinity, and observed that the occupants of
the car met the description of those suspected of the crime.
These circumstances provided not only probable cause to
arrest, but also under Carroll and Chambers, probable cause
to seize the incriminating items without a warrant.'
The petition for certiorari and the respondent's motion for
leave to proceed in forma pauperis are granted, the judgment
of the Supreme Court of Colorado is vacated, and the case is
remanded to that court for proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
It is so ordered.

There can be no question that the stopping of a vehicle and the detention of its occupants constitute a "seizure" within the meaning of the
Fourth Amendment. Delaware v. Prouse, 440 U. S. 648, 653 (1979);
United States v. Martinez-Fuerte, 428 U. S. 543, 556-558 (1976); United
States v. Brignoni-Ponce,422 U. S. 873, 878 (1975).
4 The respondent does not dispute that the items seized were illuminated
by the lights of the service station, or that they were in the plain view
of the officer as he spoke to him beside the front door of the car. There
was no evidence whatsoever that the officer's presence to issue a traffic
citation was a pretext to confirm any other previous suspicion about the
occupants.

