CALIFORNIA v. RIEGLER

1319

Opinion in Chambers

CALIFORNIA v. RIEGLER
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-659.

Decided February 5, 1981

An application to stay, pending the filing of a petition for certiorari, the
California Court of Appeal's judgment reversing respondent's state drug
conviction on the ground that the Fourth Amendment was violated, is
granted. After a lawful customs search revealed hashish in packages
mailed from Germany, law enforcement officials arranged for a controlled delivery of the packages; obtained a warrant to search the
place of delivery and seize the packages; delayed executing the warrant
and followed respondent and others when they left the delivery place
by automobile with the packages; and, after arresting the suspects,
reopened the packages at the police station without obtaining a second
search warrant. The stay is warranted because the state court's decision was based on the Federal Constitution; the "balance of equities"
favors the State, which must either retry or dismiss the case, whereas
respondent has been free on bail since conviction; and the case presents issues of sufficient importance that four Justices of this Court
probably will vote to grant certiorari.

Circuit Justice.
The applicant, the State of California, has asked me to
stay the execution and enforcement of the judgment of the
California Court of Appeal in People v. Riegler, 111 Cal. App.
3d 580, 168 Cal. Rptr. 816 (1980), pending the filing of a
petition for writ of certiorari and a final determination of the
case by this Court. Review is sought of the Court of Appeal's conclusion that the failure of law enforcement officers
to obtain a search warrant in this case violated the Fourth
Amendment and mandates a reversal of the respondent's conviction for possession of marihuana for sale.
The facts are not in dispute. On November 8, 1977,
United States customs officials in New York City were alerted
by specially trained police dogs of the possible presence of
marihuana in two packages mailed from Germany to Merced,
Cal. Pursuant to customs laws, officials of the Postal ServJUSTICE REHNQUIST,

1320

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

449 U. S.

ice and the Drug Enforcement Administration opened the
packages and confirmed that they contained hashish. The
packages were then resealed and sent to authorities in California. Postal authorities and local California officials arranged for a controlled delivery of the packages and obtained
a search warrant authorizing them to enter the place of delivery and to search for and seize the packages and their contents. The packages were delivered, and in order to allow
the occupants time to open the packages and exercise dominion and control over the contents, the police did not immediately execute the search warrant. Approximately 15 minutes
after the packages were delivered, the respondent and two
companions arrived by automobile at the residence and left
almost immediately thereafter with the packages. While
some police remained at the residence and executed the search
warrant, others followed the respondent and his companions
in the hopes that they would lead them to other suspects.
Eventually, the police, fearful that they would lose the suspects in heavy traffic, stopped the automobile and arrested
the respondent and his companions. The packages were in
plain view in the back seat and were seized at the time of arrest. The packages were in the same condition as they were
before the delivery to the home. They were transported to
Merced that evening where they were photographed, opened,
and inventoried. No second search warrant was obtained before the reopening of the packages. The hashish was still in
the packages. The street value of the hashish was $100,000.
A majority of the California Court of Appeal held that the
seizure by the police of the packages containing the hashish
was valid but the subsequent reopening of the packages at
the police station without a search warrant violated the
Fourth Amendment. Its holding rested on this Court's decision in United States v. Chadwick, 433 U. S. 1 (1977), and
its progeny, particularly Walter v. United States, 447 U. S.
649 (1980). Judge Andreen wrote separately concurring in
the result but questioning the wisdom of the majority's opin-

CALIFORNIA v. RIEGLER
1319

Opinion in Chambers

ion and its rejection of the State's argument that the respondent had a lesser expectation of privacy because the
packages had previously been subjected to a customs search
and determined to contain contraband. Accordingly, the
packages could move through the mail only by virtue of governmental authorization. Were it not for an earlier decision
by a panel of that court which Judge Andreen considered
controlling, he would hold that the packages were in the constructive possession of the law enforcement officers from the
time of the opening of them in New York until the subsequent stop of the automobile. Three of the seven justices
of the Supreme Court of California voted to grant a hearing
at the request of the State.
There are three pertinent inquiries which are usually made
in evaluating a request for stay of enforcement of an order
of a state court: whether that order is predicated on federal
as opposed to state grounds; whether the "balance of equities" militates in favor of the relief requested by the applicant; and whether it is likely that four Juistices of this Court
would vote to grant certiorari. I conclude here that each of
these questions must be answered in the affirmative.
First, the decision of the California Court of Appeal is
predicated on the Federal Constitution. The opinion refers
specifically to the Fourth Amendment and relies for support
on federal cases and state cases addressing the federal constitutional issue.
Second, the "balance of equities" favors the granting of
the stay. The State argues that unless the requested stay is
granted under present California law the case must either be
set for retrial or dismissed. The State will therefore be
denied the opportunity to have the Court of Appeal's decision reviewed by this Court. By contrast, the prejudice to
the respondent is less. The State asserts without contradiction that respondent has been free on bail since his conviction.
Finally, I conclude that it is likely that four Justices of
this Court will vote to grant certiorari. The case presents

1322

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

449 U. S.

important issues regarding the level of expectation of privacy a recipient of a package containing contraband sent
through the international mails may have when the packages
have previously been subjected to a lawful customs search
and delivered under controlled conditions and constant surveillance. None of our prior cases have directly addressed
this oft recurring situation and certainly none of the three
opinions in Walter v. United States, supra, provides a ready
answer. In my opinion, the case presents issues which are
of sufficient importance that four Justices of this Court would
likely vote to grant the State's petition for certiorari.
The request for a stay of the judgment of the California
Court of Appeal pending consideration of a timely petition
for certiorari by the applicant is granted, to remain in effect
until disposition of the petition for certiorari. If the petition is granted, the stay is to remain in effect until this Court
decides the case or until this Court otherwise orders.

