OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

449 U. S.

ATIYEH, GOVERNOR OF OREGON, ET AL. v. CAPPS
ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-625.

Decided February 4, 1981

An application to stay the District Court's injunction, which requires
Oregon officials to eliminate "overcrowding" in a certain prison by
reducing the number of prisoners housed there by specified amounts by
specified dates, is granted pending either the Court of Appeals' decision
in the appeal in this case or this Court's decision in Rhodes v. Chapman,
No. 80-332, scheduled for argument this Term and involving similar
issues (whichever may come first). It appears that the District Court,
in determining the appropriate standards under the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments to be applied in considering conditions of imprisonment, misconstrued pertinent decisions of this Court. Moreover,
the District Court's order fails to comply with the specificity requirement of Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 65 (d).

Circuit Justice.
This matter has previously come before me on the application of applicant Atiyeh, Governor of Oregon, applicant
Watson, administrator of the Corrections Division of the
State of Oregon, and applicant Cupp, Superintendent of the
Oregon State Penitentiary, on a motion for a stay of the final
injunction issued by the United States District Court for the
District of Oregon pending appeal to the Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit. I issued a temporary stay, feeling
that on the basis of the application there was merit to some
of the applicants' points, but not wanting to proceed further
with even my own analysis without calling for a response.
I called for that response, and it has now been received.
The tests have been stated and restated as to probability
of success on the merits, the probability of four Justices voting to grant certiorari, and the like as guideposts for the exercise of the function of the Circuit Justice in granting or denying stays. Because this is not an appeal from an adverse
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

ATIYEH v. CAPPS
1312

Opinion in Chambers

ruling of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, from
which a similar stay was sought and denied, it is not in a
posture where the so-called "stay equities" can be readily
evaluated, but I am satisfied in my own mind that, although
it should not be nearly as frequently done as in the case of
a final judgment of the court of appeals, an application to
a Circuit Justice of this Court from a district court is within
the contemplation of the All Writs Act, 28 U. S. C. ยง 1651
(a). I do not understand the respondents to contest this
proposition as a matter of law. I recognize that they are
correct in their statement in their response that "[t]he
normal presumption is that '[i]n all cases, the fact weighs
heavily that the lower court refused to stay its order pending
appeal.'" Memorandum for Respondents 2. And, because
an appeal from the District Court order is presently pending
before the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, the rule to
be followed is that "[oirdinarily a stay application to a Circuit Justice on a matter before a court of appeals is rarely
granted . . . ." Pasadena Board of Education v. Spangler,
423 U. S. 1335, 1336 (1975) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers).
Having given such time as was possible to the consideration of the lengthy and able submissions on the part of both
parties, I have decided to grant the stay pending the decision
of this Court in Rhodes v. Chapman, No. 80-332, presently
scheduled for argument this Term, or the decision of the
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit pursuant to its expedited briefing schedule (whichever may come first). My
reasons for doing so follow and they rest both on procedural
and substantive grounds.
I find in the carefully considered opinion, findings of fact,
and conclusions of law of the District Court a set of assumptions which I do not believe the Constitution warrants, and
I believe that at least three other Justices of this Court
would concur in my belief. The court dealt with a "maximum security prison" located in Salem, Ore., comprising 22
acres surrounded by a re-enforced concrete wall averaging

1314

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

449 U. S.

25 feet in height. Prisoners are housed in five units. One
of these cellblocks was built in 1929, two in the early 1950's,
and the newest in 1964. 495 F. Supp. 802, 808 (1980). The
findings of fact and conclusions of law proceed to set forth
in great detail the numbers, facilities, and conditions at this
prison. Some of those findings and conclusions were based on
the Standards of the American Correctional Association, id.,
at 809, the National Sheriffs' Association Standards, id., at
810, and the Standards of the United States Army. Ibid.
The District Court also relied on the testimony of a professor of psychology at the University of Texas at Arlington
to the effect that the housing at the Salem institution is
"inadequate to avoid adverse physical and mental effects."
Ibid. It also relied on the testimony of the Dean of the University of Chicago Law School that the "overcrowding" levels
that exist at the institution undermine the initiative of inmates to seek self-improvement and prevent their rehabilitation. Id., at 811.
Naturally, penal officials would like to have a larger share
of the State's budget, just as would any number of other
state officials administering programs mandated by the State.
But there is nothing in the Constitution that says that "rehabilitation" is the sole permissible goal of incarceration, and
we have only recently stated that retribution is equally permissible. See Gregg v. Georgia, 428 U. S. 153, 184, n. 30
(1976).
The District Court concluded by stating that overcrowding
"exceeds the level of applicable professional standards; has
increased the health risks to which inmates are exposed; has
impinged on the proper delivery of medical and mental health
care; has reduced the opportunity for inmates to participate
in rehabilitative programs; has resulted in idleness; has produced an atmosphere of tension and fear among inmates and
staff; has reduced the ability of the institutions to protect
the inmates from assaults; and is likely to produce embit-

ATIYEH v. CAPPS
1312

Opinion in Chambers

tered citizens with heightened antisocial attitudes and behavior." 495 F. Supp., at 813.
I think the District Court, while it may be correct in its
findings of fact, and is certainly closer to the scene than a
single Circuit Justice in Washington, has missed the point
of several of our cases, including Price v. Johnston, 334 U. S.
266 (1948), Procunier v. Martinez, 416 U. S. 396 (1974),
and Bell v. Wolfish, 441 U. S. 520 (1979). It has chosen to
rely on a plurality opinion in Trop v. Dulles, 356 U. S. 86
(1958), stating in dicta that the touchstone of the Eighth
Amendment is "nothing less than the dignity of man." Id.,
at 100.
I find the District Court's efforts to distinguish Bell v.
Wolfish, supra, particularly unpersuasive, although I likewise
realize that there is considerable difference of opinion among
the Members of this Court as to the merits of that decision.
The District Court states that Bell "is not controlling here"
because double-ceiling of pretrial detainees for no more than
60 days is quite different from institutions housing people
who have been convicted of crime and are sentenced to longterm confinement. But this cuts both ways: a pretrial detainee, presumably detained on probable cause but not yet
having been found guilty as charged under our constitutional
procedures, cannot be "punished" at all. See Bell v. Wolfish,
supra. The respondents here, however, each of whom has
been tried, found guilty, and sentenced to a term which turns
out to be, in terms of "mean time served," 24 months, 495
F. Supp., at 814, are in a different boat from both their perspective and society's perspective. So far as they are concerned, they will have to endure the overcrowded conditions
for a longer period of time than the pretrial detainees had to
endure them in Bell v. Wolfish, supra; but from the point of
view of society, the legislature has spoken through its penal
statutes and its conferring of authority on the parole authorities to seriously penalize those duly convicted of crimes
which it has defined as such. In short, nobody promised

1316

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

449 U. S.

them a rose garden; and I know of nothing in the Eighth
Amendment which requires that they be housed in a manner
most pleasing to them, or considered even by most knowledgeable penal authorities to be likely to avoid confrontations, psychological depression, and the like. They have
been convicted of crime, and there is nothing in the Constitution which forbids their being penalized as a result of that
conviction.
It is equally well settled that prisoners have constitutional
rights, and that cadena temporal, see Weems v. United
States, 217 U. S. 349, 382 (1910), and conditions such as
those described in the Arkansas prison system in Hutto v.
Finney, 437 U. S. 678 (1978), exceed the bounds permitted
the States by the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments to
the United States Constitution. It is considerations such as
these with which this Court must deal in its upcoming decision and opinion in Rhodes v. Chapman, supra, a case relied
upon by the District Court in its findings and conclusions
when it was simply a decision of the Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit. I think it best, in the exercise of my function
as Circuit Justice, that the District Court have the benefit of
this Court's opinion in that case before it takes over the
management of the Oregon prison system.
The actual order entered by the District Court reads as
follows:
"[T]he court will require that a reduction of the total
population at the three facilities by 500 persons be accomplished by December 31, 1980, together with a further reduction of at least 250 by March 31, 1981. The
order will not direct the state to adopt any particular
methods to achieve this goal. However, to assure that
progress toward that goal is being made, defendants will
be ordered to report monthly, commencing on September 1, 1980, on the number of persons housed at each

ATIYEH v. CAPPS

1312

1317

Opinion in Chambers

facility and the steps that have been taken and remain
to be taken to meet the deadlines imposed." 495 F.
Supp., at 806.
In my opinion, the above order of the District Court fails to
comply with Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 65 (d), which
provides in relevant part:
"Every order granting an injunction and every restraining order shall set forth the reasons for its issuance; shall be specific in terms; shall describe in reasonable detail, and not by reference to the complaint or other
document, the act or acts sought to be restrained . ..."

Several years ago we stated in Schmidt v. Lessard, 414
U. S. 473 (1974):
"As we have emphasized in the past, the specificity
provisions of Rule 65 (d) are no mere technical requirements. The Rule was designed to prevent uncertainty
and confusion on the part of those faced with injunctive
orders, and to avoid the possible founding of a contempt
citation on a decree too vague to be understood ....

"The requirement of specificity in injunction orders
performs a second important function. Unless the trial
court carefully frames its orders of injunctive relief, it is
impossible for an appellate tribunal to know precisely
what it is reviewing. Gunn [v. University Committee
to End the War, 399 U. S.] 383, [388 (1970)]. We can
hardly begin to assess the correctness of the judgment
entered by the District Court here without knowing its
precise bounds. In the absence of specific injunctive
relief, informed and intelligent appellate review is greatly
complicated, if not made impossible." Id., at 476-477.
The language in the order of the District Court directing the
prison officials to accomplish a further reduction of "at least
250" by March 31, 1981, falls short of this specificity
requirement.

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

449 U. S.

For all of the above-stated reasons, and because in the
normal course of events by the close of this Court's October
1980 Term a decision should be handed down in Rhodes v.
Chapman, supra, I think that the District Court's ultimate
resolution of the case before it will be facilitated, not retarded, by the issuance of a stay as previously, indicated.
There is no reason for courts to become the allies of prison
officials in seeking to avoid unpleasant prison conditions
when the executive and the legislature of the State have decided that only a certain amount of money shall be allocated
to prison facilities; there is likewise no reason for the District
Court to stay its hand when specific constitutional violations
are called to its attention.
It is accordingly ordered that the injunction issued by the
District Court be stayed, pending either the decision of the
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in this case or the
decision of this Court in Rhodes v. Chapman, supra, whichever may come first.

