McCARTHY v. HARPER
Opinion in Chambers

McCARTHY, SUPERINTENDENT v. HARPER
ON APPLICATION

No. A-631.

FOR STAY

Decided February 3, 1981

An application for a stay, pending applicant's petition for certiorari, of
the mandate of the Court of Appeals-which had reversed the District
Court's judgment dismissing respondent state prisoner's habeas corpus
petition-is granted. Title 28 U. S. C. ยง 2253 provides that an appeal
may not be taken to a court of appeals from a final order in a habeas
corpus proceeding based on detention arising from state-court process
unless the judge who rendered the order or a circuit justice or judge
issues a certificate of probable cause. There is no indication that such
a certificate was issued here, and at least four other Members of this
Court would probably share the view that, accordingly, the Court of
Appeals was prohibited by statute from entertaining respondent's appeal
from the District Court's judgment. Thus, this Court would probably
grant certiorari and reverse the Court of Appeals' judgment with instructions to dismiss respondent's appeal.

Circuit Justice.
Applicant McCarthy has requested me to stay the issuance
of the mandate of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
in this case pending his petition for certiorari on the grounds
that the Court of Appeals failed to require respondent to
exhaust all of his state remedies before seeking federal habeas
to challenge his conviction. The Court of Appeals reversed a
judgment of the United States District Court for the Central
District of California dismissing respondent's petition for
habeas corpus, and in doing so it relied on its own earlier deciJUSTICE REHNQUIST,

sion in Harris v. Superior Court, 500 F. 2d 1124 (1974) (en
bane), cert. denied, 420 U. S. 973 (1975). Harris in turn held

that a "postcard" denial of a petition for writ of habeas corpus by the California Supreme Court, without opinion or citation, constitutes a denial on the merits and therefore satisfies
the exhaustion requirement.
Because I felt there was a threshold jurisdictional problem

1310

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

449 U. S.

which had not been addressed by the Court of Appeals or by
the applicant, I called for a response from the respondent.
This document, consisting of 16 lines of text, quite candidly
states that "respondent must tell the court that according to
the records of the California Bureau of Prisons, Theodore
Monroe Harper is no longer in prison or on parole. Respondent's counsel did not learn this until a few days ago, -when a
status letter to Mr. Harper and copies of pleadings which he
had sent to his client were returned without a forwarding
address. Respondent's counsel now is unable to locate his
client. As a result of this situation, it is respondent's belief
that this case may be moot and no case or controversy may
be present." Response to Application 1.
Federal habeas corpus is a civil action, and this Court has
jurisdiction to consider applicant's petition for certiorari to
the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit only if the case
was properly appealed from the District Court to the Court
of Appeals. Title 28 U. S. C. ยง 2253 provides in pertinent
part:
"An appeal may not be taken to the court of appeals
from the final order in a habeas corpus proceeding where
the detention complained of arises out of process issued
by a State court, unless the justice or judge who rendered
the order or a circuit justice or judge issues a certificate
of probable cause."
The District Court in this case, in a judgment rendered
pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 58, stated that
"It is adjudged that the Petition for Writ of Habeas Corpus is
dismissed." There is no indication that either the judge of
the District Court or a circuit justice or judge has issued a certificate of probable cause in this case. As presently advised
I am therefore of the opinion, which I believe would be
shared by at least four of my colleagues, that the Court of
Appeals was prohibited by statute from entertaining respondent's appeal from the order of the District Court dismissing

McCARTHY v. HARPER
1309

1311

Opinion in Chambers

his application for a writ of habeas corpus. "Though neither
party has questioned the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeals
to entertain the appeal, we are obligated to do so on our own
motion if a question thereto exists." Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. v. Wetzel, 424 U. S. 737, 740 (1976). That leads me
to the further conclusion that this Court would grant applicant's petition for certiorari, and, unless it chose to ignore the
above quoted provision of 28 U. S. C. ยง 2253, reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals with instructions to dismiss respondent's appeal from the order of the District Court.
If I am correct in my reasoning, the mandate of the Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit should be stayed pending applicant's petition for certiorari to this Court. Because of the
jurisdictional defect in the appeal, I find it unnecessary to
reach applicant's contentions respecting the correctness of the
decision of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in
Harris v. Superior Court, supra.
A stay has been entered pending the timely filing of a
petition for writ of certiorari by applicant, with the usual
terms as to its duration.
It is so ordered.

