OCTOBER TERM, 1993
Syllabus

STANSBURY v. CALIFORNIA
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA
No. 93-5770. Argued March 30, 1994-Decided April 26, 1994
When California police first questioned petitioner Stansbury as a possible
witness to the rape and murder of a 10-year-old girl, they had another
suspect. However, Stansbury became a suspect during the interview,
when he told police that, on the night of the murder, he drove a car
matching the one seen where the girl's body was found. After he also
admitted to prior convictions for rape, kidnaping, and child molestation,
officers stopped the interview, advised him of his rights under Miranda
v. Arizona, 384 U. S. 436, and arrested him. The trial court denied his
pretrial motion to suppress his statements to the police, reasoning that
he was not "in custody" for purposes of Mirandauntil the officers began
to suspect him. He was convicted of, inter alia, first-degree murder
and sentenced to death. In affirming, the State Supreme Court concluded that one of the relevant factors in determining whether Stansbury was in custody was whether the investigation was focused on him.
Agreeing that suspicion focused on him only when he mentioned the car,
the court found that Miranda did not bar the admission of statements
made before that point.
Held: Because the initial determination of custody depends on the objective circumstances of the interrogation, an officer's subjective and undisclosed view concerning whether the interrogee is a suspect is irrelevant
to the assessment whether that person is in custody. See, e. g., Beckwith v. United States, 425 U. S. 341. Numerous statements in the State
Supreme Court's opinion are open to the interpretation that the court
regarded the officers' subjective beliefs regarding Stansbury's status as
a suspect as significant in and of themselves, rather than as relevant
only to the extent they influenced the objective conditions surrounding
his interrogation. The State Supreme Court should consider in the first
instance whether objective circumstances show that Stansbury was in
custody during the entire interrogation.
4 Cal. 4th 1017, 846 P. 2d 756, reversed and remanded.

Robert M. Westberg, by appointment of the Court, 510
U. S. 1009, argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the
briefs were David S. Winton and Joseph A. Hearst.

Cite as: 511 U. S. 318 (1994)
Per Curiam

Aileen Bunney, Deputy Attorney General of California,
argued the cause for respondent. With her on the brief
were Daniel E. Lungren, Attorney General, George Williamson, Chief Assistant Attorney General, Ronald A. Bass,
Senior Assistant Attorney General, and Ronald E. Niver,
Deputy Attorney General.*
PER CURIAM.

This case concerns the rules for determining whether a
person being questioned by law enforcement officers is held
in custody, and thus entitled to the warnings required by
Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U. S. 436 (1966). We hold, not for
the first time, that an officer's subjective and undisclosed
view concerning whether the person being interrogated is a
suspect is irrelevant to the assessment whether the person
is in custody.
I

Ten-year-old Robyn Jackson disappeared from a playground in Baldwin Park, California, at around 6:30 p.m. on
September 28, 1982. Early the next morning, about 10
miles away in Pasadena, Andrew Zimmerman observed a
large man emerge from a turquoise American sedan and
throw something into a nearby flood control channel. Zimmerman called the police, who arrived at the scene and discovered the girl's body in the channel. There was evidence
that she had been raped, and the cause of death was determined to be asphyxia complicated by blunt force trauma to
the head.
Lieutenant Thomas Johnston, a detective with the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department, investigated the hom*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Orange

County District Attorney, State of California, by Michael R. Capizzi and
Devallis Rutledge; for Americans for Effective Law Enforcement, Inc.,
by Bernard J Farber, Fred E. Inbau, Wayne W. Schmidt, and James
P Manak; and for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent
S. Scheidegger.

STANSBURY v. CALIFORNIA
Per Curiam

icide. From witnesses interviewed on the day the body was
discovered, he learned that Robyn had talked to two ice
cream truck drivers, one being petitioner Robert Edward
Stansbury, in the hours before her disappearance. Given
these contacts, Johnston thought Stansbury and the other
driver might have some connection with the homicide or
knowledge thereof, but for reasons unimportant here Johnston considered only the other driver to be a leading suspect.
After the suspect driver was brought in for interrogation,
Johnston asked Officer Lee of the Baldwin Park Police Department to contact Stansbury to see if he would come in for
questioning as a potential witness.
Lee and three other plainclothes officers arrived at Stansbury's trailer home at about 11:00 that evening. The officers
surrounded the door and Lee knocked. When Stansbury answered, Lee told him the officers were investigating a homicide to which Stansbury was a possible witness and asked if
he would accompany them to the police station to answer
some questions. Stansbury agreed to the interview and accepted a ride to the station in the front seat of Lee's police
car.
At the station, Lieutenant Johnston, in the presence of
another officer, questioned Stansbury about his whereabouts
and activities during the afternoon and evening of September 28. Neither Johnston nor the other officer issued Miranda warnings. Stansbury told the officers (among other
things) that on the evening of the 28th he spoke with the
victim at about 6:00, returned to his trailer home after work
at 9:00, and left the trailer at about midnight in his housemate's turquoise, American-made car. This last detail
aroused Johnston's suspicions, as the turquoise car matched
the description of the one Andrew Zimmerman had observed
in Pasadena. When Stansbury, in response to a further
question, admitted to prior convictions for rape, kidnaping,
and child molestation, Johnston terminated the interview
and another officer advised Stansbury of his Miranda rights.

Cite as: 511 U. S. 318 (1994)
Per Curiam

Stansbury declined to make further statements, requested
an attorney, and was arrested. Respondent State of California charged Stansbury with first-degree murder and other
crimes.
Stansbury filed a pretrial motion to suppress all statements made at the station, and the evidence discovered as a
result of those statements. The trial court denied the motion in relevant part, ruling that Stansbury was not "in custody"-and thus not entitled toMirandawarnings--until he
mentioned that he had taken his housemate's turquoise car
for a midnight drive. Before that stage of the interview,
the trial court reasoned, "the focus in [Lieutenant Johnston's]
mind certainly was on the other ice cream [truck] driver,"
Tr. 2368; only "after Mr. Stansbury made the comment...
describing the . .. turquoise-colored automobile" did Johnston's suspicions "shif[t] to Mr. Stansbury," ibid. Based
upon its conclusion that Stansbury was not in custody until
Johnston's suspicions had focused on him, the trial court
permitted the prosecution to introduce in its case in chief
the statements Stansbury made before that time. At trial,
the jury convicted Stansbury of first-degree murder, rape,
kidnaping, and lewd act on a child under the age of 14, and
fixed the penalty for the first-degree murder at death.
The California Supreme Court affirmed. Before determining whether Stansbury was in custody during the interview at the station, the court set out what it viewed as the
applicable legal standard:
"In deciding the custody issue, the totality of the circumstances is relevant, and no one factor is dispositive. However, the most important considerations include (1) the
site of the interrogation, (2) whether the investigation
has focused on the subject, (3) whether the objective indicia of arrest are present, and (4) the length and form
of questioning." 4 Cal. 4th 1017, 1050, 846 P. 2d 756,
775 (1993) (internal quotation marks omitted).

STANSBURY v. CALIFORNIA
Per Curiam

The court proceeded to analyze the second factor in detail,
in the end accepting the trial court's factual determination
"that suspicion focused on [Stansbury] only when he mentioned that he had driven a turquoise car on the night of the
crime." Id., at 1052, 846 P. 2d, at 776. The court "conclude[d] that [Stansbury] was not subject to custodial interrogation before he mentioned the turquoise car," and thus
approved the trial court's ruling that Miranda v. Arizona
did not bar the admission of statements Stansbury made before that point. 4 Cal. 4th, at 1054, 846 P. 2d, at 777-778.
We granted certiorari. 510 U. S. 943 (1993).
II
We held in Miranda that a person questioned by law enforcement officers after being "taken into custody or otherwise deprived of his freedom of action in any significant way"
must first "be warned that he has a right to remain silent,
that any statement he does make may be used as evidence
against him, and that he has a right to the presence of an
attorney, either retained or appointed." 384 U. S., at 444.
Statements elicited in noncompliance with this rule may not
be admitted for certain purposes in a criminal trial. Compare id., at 492, 494, with Harris v. New York, 401 U. S. 222
(1971). An officer's obligation to administer Miranda warnings attaches, however, "only where there has been such
a restriction on a person's freedom as to render him 'in
custody."' Oregon v. Mathiason, 429 U. S. 492, 495 (1977)
(per curiam); see also Illinois v. Perkins, 496 U. S. 292,
296 (1990). In determining whether an individual was in
custody, a court must examine all of the circumstances
surrounding the interrogation, but "the ultimate inquiry is
simply whether there [was] a 'formal arrest or restraint on
freedom of movement' of the degree associated with a formal
arrest." California v. Beheler, 463 U. S. 1121, 1125 (1983)
(per curiam) (quoting Mathiason,supra, at 495).

Cite as: 511 U. S. 318 (1994)
Per Curiam

Our decisions make clear that the initial determination of
custody depends on the objective circumstances of the interrogation, not on the subjective views harbored by either the
interrogating officers or the person being questioned. In
Beckwith v. United States, 425 U. S. 341 (1976), for example,
the defendant, without being advised of his Miranda rights,
made incriminating statements to Government agents during an interview in a private home. He later asked that
Miranda "be extended to cover interrogation in noncustodial circumstances after a police investigation has focused on the suspect." 425 U. S., at 345 (internal quotation
marks omitted). We found his argument unpersuasive, explaining that it "was the compulsive aspect of custodial interrogation, and not the strength or content of the government's
suspicions at the time the questioning was conducted, which
led the Court to impose the Miranda requirements with
regard to custodial questioning." Id., at 346-347 (internal
quotation marks omitted). As a result, we concluded that
the defendant was not entitled to Miranda warnings: "Although the 'focus' of an investigation may indeed have been
on Beckwith at the time of the interview... , he hardly
found himself in the custodial situation described by the Miranda Court as the basis for its holding." 425 U. S., at 347.
Berkemer v. McCarty,468 U. S. 420 (1984), reaffirmed the
conclusions reached in Beckwith. Berkemer concerned the
roadside questioning of a motorist detained in a traffic stop.
We decided that the motorist was not in custody for purposes
of Miranda even though the traffic officer "apparently decided as soon as [the motorist] stepped out of his car that
[the motorist] would be taken into custody and charged with
a traffic offense." 468 U. S., at 442. The reason, we explained, was that the officer "never communicated his intention to" the motorist during the relevant questioning. Ibid.
The lack of communication was crucial, for under Miranda
"[a] policeman's unarticulated plan has no bearing on the
question whether a suspect was 'incustody' at a particular

STANSBURY v. CALIFORNIA
Per Curiam

time"; rather, "the only relevant inquiry is how a reasonable
man in the suspect's position would have understood his situation." 468 U. S., at 442. Other cases of ours have been
consistent in adhering to this understanding of the custody
element of Miranda. See, e. g., Mathiason, supra, at 495
("Nor is the requirement of warnings to be imposed simply
because . . . the questioned person is one whom the police

suspect. Mirandawarnings are required only where there
has been such a restriction on a person's freedom as to render him 'in custody'"); Beheler, supra, at 1124, n. 2 ("Our
holding in Mathiason reflected our earlier decision in [Beckwith], in which we rejected the notion that the 'in custody'
requirement was satisfied merely because the police interviewed a person who was the 'focus' of a criminal investigation"); Minnesota v. Murphy, 465 U. S. 420, 431 (1984) ("The
mere fact that an investigation has focused on a suspect does
not trigger the need for Miranda warnings in noncustodial
settings, and the probation officer's knowledge and intent
have no bearing on the outcome of this case") (citation omitted); cf. Pennsylvania v. Bruder,488 U. S. 9, 11, n. 2 (1988).
It is well settled, then, that a police officer's subjective
view that the individual under questioning is a suspect, if
undisclosed, does not bear upon the question whether the
individual is in custody for purposes of Miranda. See F.
Inbau, J. Reid, & J. Buckley, Criminal Interrogation and Confessions 232, 236, 297-298 (3d ed. 1986). The same principle
obtains if an officer's undisclosed assessment is that the person being questioned is not a suspect. In either instance,
one cannot expect the person under interrogation to probe
the officer's innermost thoughts. Save as they are communicated or otherwise manifested to the person being questioned, an officer's evolving but unarticulated suspicions do
not affect the objective circumstances of an interrogation or
interview, and thus cannot affect the Miranda custody inquiry. "The threat to a citizen's Fifth Amendment rights

Cite as: 511 U. S. 318 (1994)
Per Curiam

that Mirandawas designed to neutralize has little to do with
the strength of an interrogating officer's suspicions." Berkemer, supra, at 435, n. 22.
An officer's knowledge or beliefs may bear upon the custody issue if they are conveyed, by word or deed, to the individual being questioned. Cf. Michigan v. Chesternut, 486
U. S. 567, 575, n. 7 (1988) (citing United States v. Mendenhall,
446 U. S. 544, 554, n. 6 (1980) (opinion of Stewart, J.)). Those
beliefs are relevant only to the extent they would affect how
a reasonable person in the position of the individual being
questioned would gauge the breadth of his or her "'freedom
of action."' Berkemer, supra, at 440. Even a clear statement from an officer that the person under interrogation is
a prime suspect is not, in itself, dispositive of the custody
issue, for some suspects are free to come and go until the
police decide to make an arrest. The weight and pertinence
of any communications regarding the officer's degree of suspicion will depend upon the facts and circumstances of the
particular case. In sum, an officer's views concerning the
nature of an interrogation, or beliefs concerning the potential
culpability of the individual being questioned, may be one
among many factors that bear upon the assessment whether
that individual was in custody, but only if the officer's views
or beliefs were somehow manifested to the individual under
interrogation and would have affected how a reasonable person in that position would perceive his or her freedom to
leave. (Of course, instances may arise in which the officer's
undisclosed views are relevant in testing the credibility of
his or her account of what happened during an interrogation;
but it is the objective surroundings, and not any undisclosed
views, that control the Miranda custody inquiry.)
We decide on this state of the record that the California
Supreme Court's analysis of whether Stansbury was in custody is not consistent in all.respects with the foregoing principles. Numerous statements in the court's opinion are open

STANSBURY v. CALIFORNIA
Per Curiam

to the interpretation that the court regarded the officers'
subjective beliefs regarding Stansbury's status as a suspect
(or nonsuspect) as significant in and of themselves, rather
than as relevant only to the extent they influenced the objective conditions surrounding his interrogation. See 4 Cal.
4th, at 1050, 846 P. 2d, at 775 ("whether the investigation
ha[d] focused on the" person being questioned is among the
"most important considerations" in assessing whether the
person was in custody). So understood, the court's analysis
conflicts with our precedents. The court's apparent conclusion that Stansbury's Miranda rights were triggered by virtue of the fact that he had become the focus of the officers'
suspicions, see 4 Cal. 4th, at 1052, 1054, 846 P. 2d, at 776,
777-778; cf., e. g., State v. Blanding, 69 Haw. 583, 586-587,
752 P. 2d 99, 101 (1988); State v. Hartman, 703 S. W. 2d 106,
120 (Tenn. 1985), cert. denied, 478 U. S. 1010 (1986); People
v. Herdon, 42 Cal. App. 3d 300, 307, n. 10, 116 Cal. Rptr. 641,
645, n. 10 (1974), is incorrect as well. Our cases make clear,
in no uncertain terms, that any inquiry into whether the interrogating officers have focused their suspicions upon the
individual being questioned (assuming those suspicions remain undisclosed) is not relevant for purposes of Miranda.
See generally 1 W. LaFave & J. Israel, Criminal Procedure
ยง6.6(a), pp. 489-490 (1984).
The State acknowledges that Lieutenant Johnston's and
the other officers' subjective and undisclosed suspicions (or
lack thereof) do not bear upon the question whether Stansbury was in custody, for purposes of Miranda, during the
station house interview. It maititains, however, that the objective facts in the record support a finding that Stansbury
was not in custody until his arrest. Stansbury, by contrast,
asserts that the objective circumstances show that he was in
custody during the entire interrogation. We think it appropriate for the California Supreme Court to consider this
question in the first instance. We therefore reverse its

Cite as: 511 U. S. 318 (1994)
BLACKMUN, J.,

327

concurring

judgment and remand the case for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
concurring.
I join the Court's per curiam opinion and merely add that,
even if I were not persuaded that the judgment must be
reversed for the reasons stated in that opinion, I would adhere to my view that the death penalty cannot be imposed
fairly within the constraints of our Constitution. See my
dissent in Callins v. Collins, 510 U. S. 1141, 1143 (1994). I
therefore would vacate the death sentence on that ground,
too.
JUSTICE BLACKMUN,

