AMENDMENTS TO
FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
The following amendments to the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure
were prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States on April 29,
1994, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 2072, and were reported to Congress by
THE CHIEF JUSTICE on the same date. For the letter of transmittal, see
post, p. 1176. The Judicial Conference report referred to in that letter is
not reproduced herein.
Note that under 28 U. S. C. §2074, such amendments shall take effect
no earlier than December 1 of the year in which they are transmitted to
Congress unless otherwise provided by law.
For earlier publication of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, and
the amendments thereto, see 327 U. S. 821, 335 U. S. 917, 949, 346 U. S.
941, 350 U. S. 1017, 383 U. S. 1087, 389 U. S. 1125, 401 U. S. 1025, 406 U. S.
979, 415 U. S. 1056, 416 U. S. 1001, 419 U. S. 1136, 425 U. S. 1157, 441 U. S.
985, 456 U. S. 1021, 461 U. S. 1117, 471 U. S. 1167, 480 U. S. 1041, 485 U. S.
1057, 490 U. S. 1135, 495 U. S. 967, 500 U. S. 991, and 507 U. S. 1161.

1175

LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
WASHINGTON, D. C.

APRIL

29, 1994

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress Assembled:
By direction of the Supreme Court of the United States,
I have the honor to submit to the Congress amendments to
the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure that have been
adopted by the Supreme Court pursuant to Section 2072
of Title 28, United States Code. While the Court is satisfied that the required procedures have been observed, this
transmittal does not necessarily indicate that the Court
itself would have proposed these amendments in the form
submitted.
Accompanying these rules are excerpts from the report of
the Judicial Conference of the United States containing the
Advisory Committee Notes submitted to the Court for its
consideration pursuant to Section 331 of Title 28, United
States Code.
Sincerely,

(Signed)

WILLIAM

H.

REHNQUIST

Chief Justice of the United States

1176

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
APRIL 29, 1994
ORDERED:

1. That the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure for the
United States District Courts be, and they hereby are,
amended by including therein amendments to Criminal
Rules 16, 29, 32, and 40.
[See infra, pp. 1179-1186.]
2. That the foregoing amendments to the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure shall take effect on December 1, 1994,
and shall govern all proceedings in criminal cases thereafter
commenced and, insofar as just and practicable, all proceedings in criminal cases then pending.
3. That THE CHIEF JUSTICE be, and he hereby is, authorized to transmit to the Congress the foregoing amendments
to the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2072 of Title 28, United
States Code.

1177

AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL RULES
OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
Rule 16. Discovery and inspection.
(a) Governmental disclosure of evidence.
(1) Informationi subject to disclosure.
(A) Statement of defendant.-Upon request of a
defendant the government must disclose to the defendant and make available for inspection, copying,
or photographing: any relevant written or recorded
statements made by the defendant, or copies
thereof, within the possession, custody, or control of
the government, the existence of which is known,
or by the exercise of due diligence may become
known, to the attorney for the government; that
portion of any written record containing the substance of any relevant oral statement made by the
defendant whether before or after arrest in response to interrogation by any person then known
to the defendant to be a government agent; and recorded testimony of the defendant before a grand
jury which relates to the offense charged. The
government must also disclose to the defendant the
substance of any other relevant oral statement
made by the defendant whether before or after arrest in response to interrogation by any person then
known by the defendant to be a government agent
if the government intends to use that statement at
trial. Upon request of a defendant which is an organization such as a corporation, partnership, association or labor union, the government must disclose
to the defendant any of the foregoing statements
made by a person who the government contends (1)
was, at the time of making the statement, so situ1179

1180

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

ated as a director, officer, employee, or agent as to
have been able legally to bind the defendant in respect to the subject of the statement, or (2) was, at
the time of the offense, personally involved in the
alleged conduct constituting the offense and so situated as a director, officer, employee, or agent as to
have been able legally to bind the defendant in respect to that alleged conduct in which the person
was involved.
Rule 29. Motion for judgment of acquittal.
(b) Reservation of decision on motion.-The court may
reserve decision on a motion for judgment of acquittal, proceed with the trial (where the motion is made before the
close of all the evidence), submit the case to the jury and
decide the motion either before the jury returns a verdict or
after it returns a verdict of guilty or is discharged without
having returned a verdict. If the court reserves decision, it
must decide the motion on the basis of the evidence at the
time the ruling was reserved.
[Rule 32 is deleted and replaced with the following]
Rule 32. Sentence and judgment.
(a) In general;time for sentencing.-When a presentence
investigation and report are made under subdivision (b)(1),
sentence should be imposed without unnecessary delay following completion of the process prescribed by subdivision
(b)(6). The time limits prescribed in subdivision (b)(6) may
be either shortened or lengthened for good cause.
(b) Presentence investigation and report.
(1) When made.-The probation officer must make a
presentence investigation and submit a report to the
court before the sentence is imposed, unless:
(A) the court finds that the information in the
record enables it to exercise its sentencing authority meaningfully under 18 U. S. C. §3553; and

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

1181

(B) the court explains this finding on the record.
(2) Presence of counsel.-On request, the defendant's
counsel is entitled to notice and a reasonable opportunity
to attend any interview of the defendant by a probation
officer in the course of a presentence investigation.
(3) Nondisclosure.-The report must not be submitted to the court or its contents disclosed to anyone unless the defendant has consented in writing, has pleaded
guilty or nolo contendere, or has been found guilty.
(4) Contents of the presentence report.-The presentence report must contain(A) information about the defendant's history and
characteristics, including any prior criminal record,
financial condition, and any circumstances that,
because they affect the defendant's behavior, may
be helpful in imposing sentence or in correctional
treatment;
(B) the classification of the offense and of the
defendant under the categories established by the
Sentencing Commission under 28 U. S. C. § 994(a),
as the probation officer believes to be applicable to
the defendant's case; the kinds of sentence and the
sentencing range suggested for such a category of
offense committed by such a category of defendant
as set forth in the guidelines issued by the Sentencing Commission under 28 U. S. C. § 994(a)(1); and the
probation officer's explanation of any factors that
may suggest a different sentence-within or without the applicable guideline-that would be more
appropriate, given all the circumstances;
(C) a reference to any pertinent policy statement
issued by the Sentencing Commission under 28
U. S. C. § 994(a)(2);
(D) verified information, stated in a nonargumentative style, containing an assessment of the financial, social, psychological, and medical impact on
any individual against whom the offense has been
committed;

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

(E) in appropriate cases, information about the
nature and extent of nonprison programs and resources available for the defendant;
(F) any report and recommendation resulting
from a study ordered by the court under 18 U. S. C.
§ 3552(b); and
(G) any other information required by the court.
(5) Exclusions.-The presentence report must
exclude:
(A) any diagnostic opinions that, if disclosed,
might seriously disrupt a program of rehabilitation;
(B) sources of information obtained upon a promise of confidentiality; or
(C) any other information that, if disclosed, might
result in harm, physical or otherwise, to the defend-

ant or other persons,
(6) Disclosure and objections.
(A) Not less than 35 days before the sentencing
hearing-unless the defendant waives this minimum period-the probation officer must furnish the
presentence report to the defendant, the defendant's counsel, and the attorney for the Government.
The court may, by local rule or in individual cases,
direct that the probation officer not disclose the
probation officer's recommendation, if any, on the
sentence.
(B) Within 14 days after receiving the presentence report, the parties shall communicate in writing to the probation officer, and to each other, any
objections to any material information, sentencing
classifications, sentencing guideline ranges, and policy statements contained in or omitted from the presentence report. After receiving objections, the
probation officer may meet with the defendant, the
defendant's counsel, and the attorney for the Government to discuss those objections. The proba-

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

tion officer may also conduct a further investigation
and revise the presentence report as appropriate.
(C) Not later than 7 days before the sentencing
hearing, the probation officer must submit the presentence report to the court, together with an addendum setting forth any unresolved objections, the
grounds for those objections, and the probation officer's comments on the objections. At the same
time, the probation officer must furnish the 'revisions of the presentence report and the addendum
to the defendant, the defendant's counsel, and the
attorney for the Government.
(D) Except for any unresolved objection under
subdivision (b)(6)(B), the court may, at the hearing,
accept the presentence report as its findings of fact.
For good cause shown, the court may allow a new
objection to be raised at any time before imposing
sentence.
(c) Sentence.
(1) Sentencing hearing.-At the sentencing hearing,
the court must afford counsel for the defendant and for
the Government an opportunity to comment on the probation officer's determinations and on other matters relating to the appropriate sentence, and must rule on any
unresolved objections to the presentence report. The
court may, in its discretion, permit the parties to introduce testimony or other evidence on the objections.
For each matter controverted, the court must make
either a finding on the allegation or a determination that
no finding is necessary because the controverted matter
will not be taken into account in, or will not affect, sentencing. A written record of these findings and determinations must be appended to any copy of the presentence report made available to. the Bureau of Prisons.
(2) Production of statements at sentencing hearing.-Rule 26.2(a)-(d) and (f) applies at a sentencing
hearing under this rule. If a party elects not to comply

1184

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

with an order under Rule 26.2(a) to deliver a statement
to the movant, the court may not consider the affidavit or testimony of the witness whose statement is
withheld.
(3) Imposition of sentence.-Before imposing sentence, the court must:
(A) verify that the defendant and defendant's
counsel have read and discussed the presentence report made available under subdivision (b)(6)(A). If
the court has received information excluded from
the presentence report under subdivision (b)(5) the
court-in lieu of making that information available-must summarize it in writing, if the information will be relied on in determining sentence. The
court must also give the defendant and the defendant's counsel a reasonable opportunity to comment
on that information;
(B) afford defendant's counsel an opportunity to
speak on behalf of the defendant;
(C) address the defendant personally and determine whether the defendant wishes to make a statement and to present any information in mitigation
of the sentence; and
(D) afford the attorney for the Government an
equivalent opportunity to speak to the court.
(4) In camera proceedings.-The court's summary of
information under subdivision (c)(3)(A) may be in
camera. Upon joint motion by the defendant and by
the attorney for the Government, the court may hear
in camera the statements-made under subdivision
(c)(3)(B), (C), and (D)-by the defendant, the defendant's
counsel, or the attorney for the Government.
(5) Notification of right to appeal.-After imposing
sentence in a case which has gone to trial on a plea of
not guilty, the court must advise the defendant of the
right to appeal. After imposing sentence in any case,
the court must advise the defendant of any right to appeal the sentence, and of the right of a person who is

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

1185

unable to pay the cost of an appeal to apply for leave to
appeal in forma pauperis. If the defendant so requests,
the clerk of the court must immediately prepare and file
a notice of appeal on behalf of the defendant.
(d) Judgment.
(1) In general.-A judgment of conviction must set
forth the plea, the verdict or findings, the adjudication,
and the sentence. If the defendant is found not guilty
or for any other reason is entitled to be discharged, judgment must be entered accordingly. The judgment must
be signed by the judge and entered by the clerk.
(2) Criminalforfeiture.-When a verdict contains a
finding of criminal forfeiture, the judgment must authorize the Attorney General to seize the interest or property subject to forfeiture on terms that the court considers proper.
(e) Plea withdrawal.-If a motion to withdraw a plea of
guilty or nolo contendere is made before sentence is imposed,
the court may permit the plea to be withdrawn if the defendant shows any fair and just reason. At any later time, a plea
may be set aside only on direct appeal or by motion under
28 U. S. C. §2255.
Rule 40. Commitment to another district.
(d) Arrest of probationer or supervised releasee.-If a
person is arrested for a violation of probation or supervised
release in a district other than the district having jurisdiction, such person must be taken without unnecessary delay
before the nearest available federal magistrate judge. The
person may be released under Rule 46(c). The federal magistrate judge shall:
(1) Proceed under Rule 32.1 if jurisdiction over the
person is transferred to that district;
(2) Hold a prompt preliminary hearing if the alleged
violation occurred in that district, and either (i) hold the
person to answer in the district court of the district hay-

1186

RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

ing jurisdiction or (ii) dismiss the proceedings and so
notify that court; or
(8) Otherwise order the person held to answer in the
district court of the district having jurisdiction upon
production of certified copies of the judgment, the warrant, and the application for the warrant, and upon a
finding that the person before the magistrate judge is
the person named in the warrant.

