SUPREME CoURT.

Wnmd FowLn, SURVIVxING PRNERq,

THE

PLAINT=~ IN
COMMaON COUNCIL'OT-ALEx"nDRrA.

E~Rm

The plaintiff placed goods ia the bands of an auctioneer in the city of Alexandria, wh6 sold the same, and became insolvent, having neglected to piy over
the proceeds of the sales to the plaintiff'. The auctioneer was licensed by the
-corporation of Alexandria,:and the corporation had omitted to take from him a
bond with surety for the faithful performance of his duties as auctioneer.' This.
suit was instittited to ret~over from the corporation of Alexandria the amount
of the sales of the plaintiff's goods, lost by the insolvency of the auctioneer,
on an alleged liability, in consequence of the corporation having omnitted to
take a bond from the auctioneer.
The power to license auctioneers, and to take bond for tneir good behaviour, not
being one of the incidents to a corporation, must be conferred by an act of
the legislature; and in executing it, the coporate body must conforn to the
act. The legislature of Virginia conferred this power on, thelmayo'i, aldermen
and commonalty of the several corporite.towns within that commonwealth, of
which Alexandriawas then one;" provided that nosuch license should be granted until the person or persons requesting the same should enter ino bond with
one or more sufficient stireties, payable to the mayor, aldermen and commonalty of such corporation." This was a limitation of the power. [407]
Though the corporate name of Alexandria was "the' mayor and commonalty,"
it is not doubted that a bond taken in pursuance of the act would have been
valid. [407]
The act of congress of 1804, "an act to amend the charter of Alexandrli," does'
not transfer generally to the common council, the powers of the mayor and
commonalty; but the powers given'to them are specially enumerated. There*
is no enumeration of the power to gran( licenses t6 auctioneers. The act
amending the charter, changed the corporate body so entirely as to require
a new provision to enable it to execute the powers conferred by the law of
Virginia. An enabling clause, empowering the common council to art in~the
particulir case,, or some general clause which might embrace the particular
.case, Is necessary under the n~w organization of the corporate body. [408]
The common council granted a license to carry-on the trade of an auctioneer,
which the law did not empower that body to grant. Is the town responsible
for the losses sustained by' individuals from the fraudulent conduct of the auctioneer? He is not the officer or agent of the corporation, but is underbtood
to act for himself as entirely as a tavern keeper, or any' 6ther person. ivho may
carry on any business under a license from the 'corpordte body. [409]
'Is a municipal corporation, establiqhed for the gineral purposesof government,
with limited legislative power,tiiable for losses consequent on -its having
misconstrued"the- extent'of its powers, 'in granting a license which it had no
authority to grant, without taking that security for.the conduct of, the person.
obtaining'the license, which its own.ordinances bad been supposed to require,
and which Might protect those who transact business.with the persons acting

JANUJA .Y TERU 193o.
[Fowls vs. The Commbn Conncil of Alexindria.]
.under the qlause ? ,The court find no cam in which this principle has, been
affirmed. [409]"
That corporations are bound by their contraeds is admitted. That moiey cpipo;r
rations, or those carrying on business for tlwmselves, are liable for torts is well
settled. But -that adlegislaive corporation, established as a part bf the.gcvazrment of the country, is liable for losses sustained by a nonfeasance,: by.a n
omission of the corporate body to observe a law'of its own, in which no penalty
is provided,; is a principle for which we can find no precedent. .409].
"The act of Viigin!4, passed in 1792, authorises a defendant to'plead.and demur
in the same case. [409]

ERROR -to the circuit court for the county of AleXandria, in the. district of Columbia.
'This was an action on'the case brought by the plaintiff ii
error, againist the defendants, in the' circuit court; fo," dawages charged to have been. sustained by the plaintiff, in
consequence of the. neglect of th&defendants to'take due
bonds and iecurity from.one Philip G. Marstellir, licensed
by them as an auctioneer, for the~years 1815, 1816, 1817, and
1818,' according-to the alIeg'ed provisionsof the statute in
that behlIf enadted.
The declaraton and pleadings are fully stated in. the opi-,
nibn: of the court. The defendants. filed a geheral,.demurrer,
.and pleaded the general issue.
-Thecouhnsel for the plaintiff objected to the. deendants'
demurring" and pleading at the same time to the declaration;
biut the court overruled the objection; conceiving that thiey
had a right tp permit such a cpurse of proceeding under the
statute of Virginia, which is in these words: . the plaintiff
.in replevin, and the defendant in all other actions, may plead
a d y several .matters, Whether of law or fact,-ashesball
think necessary for his defefice."
The court then proceeded to. consider the matters of law
arising upon the-demurrer, and -decided that the decaration
and the matters therein:contained, were not sufficient in law
to maintain the plaintiff's action; and the plaintiff prose-.
cuted this writ'of error.
The case was argued by Mr Swann for the, plaintifT, and
by Mr Jones and Mr Taylor for the defendants.
For the plaintiff, it was contended, that the circuit court
erred';

SUPREME COURT.,
[Fowl vs. The-Common Council of Aexandda.l

1. In deciding that the action was not sustainable on the
dec.laration.
2. In permitting the demurrer andxplea to le both filed.
at the same time to-the declaration.
Mr Swanni for the plaintiff in err.or, stated that this case
had been.before-the' court in 1826, and was sent back; the
courithafing detprmined that a new trial should- he awarded.
11 Wheat. 320. On the argument on: the former hearing,
the plaintiff in error, as he does *now, contended, that, the
corporatiorr of Alexandriawere. liable for the neglect of their
duties, and for the damages sustained by individuals in consequence of the same. On that argument, and in support
of.the principles then asserted,:there were cited, Yarboroughvs. The Bank of England,.16 East's Rep. 6. Riddle vs..The
Proprietors, &c. 7 Mnss. Rep. 169. The piincipleson whichthe whole claim of the'plaintiff rested having been thus fully.
stated and discussed, and the authorities f6r them haVing
been vouched, the.plaintiff had a right to, believethat when
the. case was remanded upon technical rules, anti wltkbut
a disaffirmance' of the'principles on which the claim was'
then: placed,
had the sanction of- this cout,rt The
court will- now say whether the question of responsibiliiy
is-still. open.
If it isto be discussed; a reference t6 the authorities formerly cited,,will dispose of it in favour of the plaintiff in error.
The liability-charged to theeorporation is- fully within the
rules to .be found in: .adjudged casds, Those which were
cited-sustain the.prriciple.. Banks are liable for negligence .
and ihe law of corporation, as it is now unolerstood, places
such:bodies under the same obligations, and gives the same
remedies, against them as are given in the cases of individuals. They have been h'eld answerable to this extent by
this'court- Clark vs. The Corporafion-of Washington, 12
Wheat. 40. Bank of Columbia vs. Pdtterpon's Administratorsi 1. Cranch, 209.
As to'the second point. There cannot be a plea and a
demurrer to the same declaration. It is competent for a
defendant to plead as many matters of fact as he desires; or
he may do so as -to matters. of -law;. but upon the rulep '6f
.they

JANUARY TERM 1830.,
[Fowle vs. The Common Counell of Alexandiffa.] .

pleading, both cannot be done. A demurrer admits the
facts, and raise§ questions of la* upon them; a plea' puts
them in issue. There- is, therefore, a direcf contraciction
between' them.
This practice does no good-to the party adopting it.
Nothing is. decided by either course until all is decided, and
the opp6site party is xposed.to great trouble. Bypleading
alone,, the w.hole questions of law and fact which arose in
the cas*e would have been 'fully presentbd -for decision. It
is denied that the law of Virginia sanctions this practice.
The act of Virginia, of 1784, prohibited pleading 'and demurring to the same declaration.
Mr Taylor and Mr Jones, for the defendants.
The plaintiff in error -intended to present this question of
ihe liability of the defendants, but this has -not' been done
in the declaration. It is asserted by him, that the defend-'
ants, a municipal corporation, are liable to him for damages
for not carrying their own laws into effect.
The suit is against the common counCil of Alexand-ia;
for appointing an'-auctioneer, without. taking a bond withsureties for theperformance of his.duties. The second
count alleges the liability of the defendants,- for .suffering
.the auctioneer to. act without having given security. . It
should appear what the'damages sustained by the plailiiff
were; and the declaration shouid have shoran the power- ot '
the corporati6n, and their obligation to exercise those powers
for the protection. of the plaintiff from -those damages.
What damages has the plaintiff sustained .! It is assumed,
that bad the bond been taken, he would have been indemnified by its' provisions; and that it would have overed the
defalcations of the auctioneer. The duties of the defendants should have -been specified by a reference 'to the laws
enjoining them; the. suit is in the naiure of a penal action,
and nothingshould have been left to inference.
It has not been shown'that the cbmmon council of Alexandria haa the power togrant licenses to auctioneers. The
law of Virkinia; of 1796, gave that authority to"' themayor,
aldermen and commonalty;" ,but does this extend to iuthoVOL. 11.-3 A-

SUPREME COURT.
tFowle us. The Commoh Council of A1e61udz.1

rise'" the common council" '-The next laW gives the authority to 'rthe mayor -nd commonalty." There is no averment that the common council is the same body with the,
,corporations mentionedin these acts.
,The counsel then. went into Pn .examination of the laws
of Virginia, 'incorporating th6 city of. Alexandria, and of
the act of congress on the same subject, to show that the
power to take a bond from an auctioneer did not exist, or
had not been continued or transferred from the corporation as
originally established to that now existing, and against Which
the suit was instituted.
They also contended; that -the claim of the plaintif- presented a case. in which a corporation was asserted'to be
liable for having omitted to legislate .for. the protectiQn of
those who- dealt with an -officer acting under an authority
derived from the corporation. Such a claim could iot be
maintained. 1i was alsb urged that had &bond been taken
from thd auctioneer, it would not have enured to the banefit of individuals transacting business With him. Its operation would :have been, to govern his pubiic duties, and not
to operate on his private transactions. Between the corpo.ration taking such a bond, and'those who dealt with, the auctioneer, there Was no such .afflinity.as would permit them. in
case of default to claim the benefit- of the bond. Sidh a
provision might have been by laW made, but this not.having been done, its omission gave no ground of action;
As to the second point; a reference to the act of the legislature of Virginia, passed in 1792, Would fully satisfy the
-court that w defenidaut has a right to plead and.demjir in'te
.same case. This has been decidedin the conrts of Virginia.
4 Htn.. & Munf. 276,'277. 2 Munf. 100.
.MrSwann, in reply, contended; that'the acts incorporating
the city of Alexandria, and particulalythe aptsof congress,
were public acts; and-it was not therefore necessary to introduce them into.the pleadings. 'The court would take notice of' those laws a public laws.
* 'Until 1804, the corporate name 'of the defendants was
"the may6r and.thetommonalty ;"Mincethat year iihas been
"the common council of Alexandria."' Thelaw of Virginia

JANUARY TOM 1820.

403

tEFowle vs. The'aomgon Cotmdel of Aleandfla.]

at 1796, was a general- public law, relating to all corpora,tions, and became necessarily- a law of this district. Without that law, the corporation -had.no right, to licensz the
auctioneer. 'lhe 'act of 1800 was passed under the authority
of, the law of 1796,.and that act authorises a suit onthe
-bond of an auctioneer by the party. injured.
.y the law of 1:804 the corporation may pass all laws not
.inconsistent with the. laws of the United States; andthe
plaintiff claims the benefit of the obligation imposed .bythe
laws. The corporation was-bound to take a bond with security on granting a license to an auctioneer.
By the appointment of the auctioneer the defendants. held
out to the. -ommunity that they had taken a bond. They
gave the auctioneer the credit upor,which the plaintiff trust-:
ed him with his goods; They authorised him to carry on
the business out of which the loss arose; -a business lie:
could not have entered upon without the license he received
from the corporation.
On a demurrer every thing-is to- be inferred against' the.
party demurring. The facts are admitted, and whatever conclusion they warrant may be drawn by. the court. The facts
show the omission to take. the bond, and, the inference is
authorised that this was gross negligence,.for which the defendants are answerable.

Mr Chief JusticeMARS ALL delivered the- opinion of the
Court,
In Decembbr 1796, the general assembly of Virginia
-passed an act entitled "an act -concerning corporations,"
declaring, "that from and, after the passing thereof, the
mayori aldermen, and commonalty of the corporate towns
within the said commonwealth, and their successors should,
-upon request of any person desirous, thereof, grant licenses
to exercise, in such town, the trade or business of an auc-.
tioneer-;- provided, that no such license should be granted
until the person or persons requesting the same should enter
into bond. with one or more sufficient sureties, payable to
the mpyor, aldermen, and commonalty of such corporate
town, and their successors, in such penalty, and with such

SUPREME COURT.
[Fowle vr. The Commoi Couhcil of Alemundria.]-

conditiQni; as -by.the, laws and ordinances of the -to.wn shall
.be: required
In th6 year 1779Ihe town of Alexandria las.incorporated
by the name' of "the inayor and comm6nalty of the town of
Alexandria." The -corporation consisted of the mayor,.recorder, aldermen, and common council men.
The mayor, reco.rder, ind aldermen, and~their successors,
were corkstituted justices of the peace,.with power to appoint
constables, surveyors of the streets and highways, and to
hold-a court of hustings once in every month; arid to appoint
clerks,-a sergeant, and other proper officers.
SIn the- year 1800 the mayor and- commonalty passed ta
ordinarice "for .licensing auctioneers agreeably-to an act-of
the.general assembly, passed on the 22dof December. 1796 ;"
by which it-was enacted; that the' mayor and commonalty
shall grant to any person- or- -persons during.. :the same, a
license to exercise-the trade or business of -an auctioneer
within the town. Provided ftiat no such license shall be
granted until the person or persons applying shall enter into.
bond, with one or more good securities, in the sum of twenty
thousand dollars, payable to the mayor and co0_fi pnalty, and
conditioned for the payment of-the-annual zent. f five, hundred dollars, to the mayor- and commonalty, in. uarterly
payments, for the said office, and for the due and faithful
performance of all the duties of the saie; which bond shall
not become void on the first recovery, but may be, put in
suit and, prosecuted from time to tim'e, by, and at the costs
of any person injured by a breach thereof,,until the whole
penalty shall be recovered.
In 1804 congress passed an act "to amend the charter of
"Alexandria," in which provision was made for the election of
"- a common, council. The - judicial duties of the mayor,. recorder, and aldermen, having been transferred to the circuit
court -of the United States for the county of Alexandria, it
was enacted. that the common councils elected." itnd their
successors shall be, and hereby are made a body politic and
dorporate, by the name of the common council of Alexandria." The estate, &c. vested in the mayor and commonalty
was transferred to the- common council, ad the usual cor-

'JANUARY -TERM 1830.

405

rFowle vs. The Coinmon Council of Alexandria.]

porate powers to sue-and be sued, &c- to erect work-houges,
&C. to provide for the police of the town, &c. were confered on that body' .They were authorised"4 to appoint a
superintendent df police, commissioners and surteyors of
the streets, constables, collectors of the taxei, and all other
officers who may be deemed necessary fo" the execution of
their laws, who shall be paid-for their services a-reasonable
compensation, .and whose duties and powers shall be prescribed in such manner as the common council shall deem
fit for carrying into execution the powers hereby granted."
The twelfth section enacts "that so much' of any act or
acts of the general assembly ofVirginiay as comes within the
purview of this act, shall be, and the same is hereby repealed.
Provided, that nothing herein contained shall be -conitrued"
t6 impaiir or destroy any right Or remedy which the mayor
and commonalty of •Alexandria noir possess or enjoy, to or
concerning any debts, cldims, or demands against any per.
son or per.sons Whatsoever, or to. repeal 'any of the laws and.
'ordinances of the mayor andcommonalty-of the said town,
now in force, which are not inconsistent with thdJact.:'
In June 1817 the.common council .of Alexandria' passed
"an act to amend the act for licensing-auctioneers, and for
other purposes," in the following.words: "be it en'acted by
the common council of Alexandria, that every perion or- persons obtaining d license to exercise the business of an auciioneer within' the town of Alexandria, shall annually apply
for, and obtain a. renewal of his or their license, and-shall
also annually renew his or their bonds for the same, in the
manner provided by law; -and every person failing to renew
such, license, and give bond annually, shall cease-to: exercise
the businesj of an auctioneer, and shall be proceeded against
accordingly."
The declarationiafter reciting the act of.1796,-and the
several ordinances of the corporate body of'the town of Alexandria, .charges, -that the common council of Alexandria;
on the.
day of
,-in the year 1815, in the town of
Alexandria, did grant a license toone Philip G. Marsteller,
to exercise the trade and business of an auctioneer, within
the said town, for the term of one year; and at the expiration
-

406

SUPREME COURT.
[Fowle s..The Common Council of Alexandria.]

of the said -year, did renew the said liceilse to the said P)iilip
G. Marsteller for, one other year, and did continue to rehew
the said license from the end of the' said last mentioned
,in
day of
year, from-year to year; until the
the year'1819,duiing alJ"which time, that is ta say, from the
day of
, in the year IS15, to the
day of
,in.the 'Year 1819,.he, the-.said. Philip G. Marsteller,
did 'exercise the trade and business of an auctioneer, in the.
said town of Alexandria, under the said license and authority
of the. said common council, and that, during the period
aforesaid, the said plaintiff delivered to him, the said Philip
G. Marsteller, sundry goods, wares, and merchandize, to be
sold. by him at auction,. in the said town of Alexandria, and
that the said, Philip did, from time to time,'during the period
he -so carried on the trade of an auctioneer, under the
liceiise aforesaid, sell at auction the said goods, &c. so delivered to hint by the plaintiff, to the amount of $1533 09,
which said sum, the said Philip, though often requested, failed to pay to the said plaintiff.
The declaration then states, that a judgment was obtained
againstothe said Philip for the said sum, which he was totally
unable to pay.; by means of which premises the plaintiff became entitled to the benefit of the. bond and security, which
ought 'to have been taken by the common council previous
to granting the said license to 'xercise the trade of auctioneer as afdresaid. Yet-the d~rendants, not regarding their
duty in that behalf, but contriving-Ao deceive and injure'the
plaintiff, did not, and would not take any bond and security
as aforesaid, from the said Philip G. Marsteller, during the
time when the transactions aforesaid took place ; but on the
contrary, so carelessly, negligently, and improperly conducted themselves in the premises, that by and through the
negligence, carelessness, and default of the defendants, no
.bond and security was taken from the 'said Philip, and that
the.money. dde from -.the said Philip was. wholly lost to him,
the said plaintiff, to his damage $3000.
To this declaration the defendants filed-a general-demnirrer, and at the same time pleaded the general issue.
The counsel for the plaintiff objected to receiving at the

JANUARY TERtM 1836.

407

[Fo*16 vs. The Commpn Pounci 'dAlexmdria.

same time a-demurrer, and a plea, to the whole 'declaration,
but the court overruled the objection, under the act of assembly, which is.in these words: "*the plaintiff in replevin, and*
the defendant in all other actions, mdy plead as many several matters, whether of law or fact, as he shall think necessary for his defence."
I The 'court, having sustained the demurrer, and.
entered
judgment for the dqfendants; theplaintiff has brought.the
cause by writ of error into this court.
"The power to license auctioneers, and to take bonds for
their good 'behaviour in office, not being one of the incidents
to a corporation, must be conferred by-ad act of the legislature; and in executing it, the corporate body must conform
to the act. The legisl4ture of Virginia conferred this power
on the mayor, aldermen, and commonalty of the several corporate towns within that commonwealth, of which Alexan-'
dria was one; "provided that no such. license should be
grant~d until the person or persons requesting the same
should enter int6bond, with one or more sufficient securities,
payable to the mayor, aldermen, and commonalty of such
corporation." This was a limitation on the power.
' Though the corporate name of Alexandria was "the
mayor and commonalty," it is not doubteai that a bond taken
in pursuance of the act would have b.denf valid. Jones, 261.
In the year 1800, 'when the, corporation of Alexandria
determined to act upon this law, an ordinance was passed
authorising, 'the mayor and commonalty" to grant licenses
to auctioneers, provided -that. no such license should be
granted, until bond with sufficient sureties should be given,
payable to "the mayor and commonalty." " It may well be
doubted; whether this ordinance is sustained by the legislative act, in pursuance of which. it was made. That act authorised "themayor,'adermen and commonalty" to grant
licenses to auctioneers, first taking bonds payable to the
"mayor, aldermen and commonalty." The ordinance omits
the "aldermen," both in the clause which empowers the
body to grant -licences, and in that which names the obligees in the bond.
But supposing this difficulty tb be entirely removed, we

408

-SUPREME COURT.
[Fowle Vs. The Common Council of Alexandra.]

are next to inquire whther. tie. powers to grant licenses to
auctionedrs, and 'to take bonds -for the performance. of their
duty, which were given by tie act of 1796. to the mayor,
aldermen and qommornalty, and by the ordinance of 1-8.00
to -the mayor and commonalty, have been transferred to, and
vested in the common council of Alexandria.
This depends on the act of congress, Passed.in 1804, "to
amend the charter of -Alexandria." Uhder this instrument,
the corp rate body consists of the common coun'cil alone.
The mayOr is separated-from them, and the aldermen ard
discontinued. The power of.the mayor and commonalty
are not transferred generally to the common council, but the
powers given them are specially enumerated. We do not
find, in. the enumeration, the power togrant licenses to auctioneers.. If it could be maintained, that the repealing
clause does.not-comprehend the act of 1796, still the'act
amending the charter .changes'the corporate body so entirely,
as to' require new pyovisions to. enable it to execute the
powers conferred by that act. The corporate body is organized anew, and does not retain thdse parts- which are required for the execution of the act of 1796. An enabling clause,
.empowering the common coU'ncil to act in the particular
case, or some general clause which might embrace the particular case, is necessary under the new organization of the
corporate body. It has been already said -that we find no
particular provision, and the general powers granted are
so limited 6y the language of -the grant, that they cannot
be fairly construed to comprehend the subject of. licenses to
auctioneers.
It may.be admitted 'that the ordinance of 180,0 is not repealed .by the act amending the charter. But that ordinance
is not adapted to the new corporate body, and could not be
carried into execution by the common council, till modified:
by some act of legislation.
The common council took up this subject in 1817, and
passed the act recited in the -declaration. We. are relieved
from inquiring whether this act removed or could remove
the difficulties which have been stated, by the circumstance
that the declaration changes the nonfeasance, which is the'

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Fowle vs,The Common. Council.of Alexandria.]

foundation of, the action, as commencing inithe year'1815.
We do- not think'any, law" then existed which empowered
the conimon council of Alexandria to license auctioneers,
or to take bondg for'the faithfurl performance of. their duty,
The injury .alleged in the declaration, as the' foundation of
the action, is the omission to take the bond required by law.
Noiv if zhe'common couneil was not required or enabled by
law to take a'bond, the action cannot.be sustained.
If the declaration is to be considered as stating the cause,
of action to be the granting a license, without previously
requiring a bond ; it will not, we think, help the. case,.. The"
common council.hasgranted a license to.carry on-the trade
of 'an*auctioneer, which the law did'not empower that body
to grant... Is the -town responsible for thelosses sust4ined
by - individuals from the fraudulent conduct of the au6'tioneer -' He is not the officer or agent of 'the-corpotation,
but is understood to act for himself as entirely a a tavernkeeper, or any othef.person. who may carry on any business
under a'license ftom the corporate body.'
Is a municipal corpordtionestablished for the general purposes of government; with limited- legislative powers, liable
for losses consequent on its having misconstrued the extent.
of its 'powers, in granting a license which it had not authorityfo'grant, without taking that security for the conduct offhe
person bbtaininig "the license which its own. ordinances had
been supposed'to require, adid *which might protect those
who transacted business with- the person. acting under the
license ' - We find bo cdise in .which this principle 'has been
affirmed.
That corporations are bound by their contracts is admitted;
thatvmoney cerporations,-or those carrying on business for
themselves, are liable for torts, is well settled: but that a
legislative corporation, established as a part of the government of the country is liable for losses sustaiiied by a nonfeasance, by an omission of the corpoiate body to. observe a
law, of its own, in which no penalty is provided, is a principle for which we can find'no precedent. We are not pre-.
'pared. to make one in this case. .
In permitting the defendant below to demur and plead to
VOL. III.-3 B

410

SUPREME COURT.
[Fowle vs. The Common CouncHl of'Alexandria.]

the wbote'declaration, the circuit court has construed the
act on that subject as it has been construed by the courts of
Virginia.
There is no error, and the judgment is affirmed with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States, for the
district of Columbia, held in and for the county of Alexandria, and was argued -by counsel ; -on consideration thereof,
it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment
of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby affirmed with costs.

