JANUART T]M,1$ 30-

ALzxW!DER GonDbN, !=

oTAZM

V9,'FA'"twsB. OoiZKi

The p1intiff below claimed more ihan, two thousand.doli$a4 I& his decrarijioaj
but obtained 4 judgrment for atless sum.
The juyisdiction of this rourt depends on the sum.or'vaiui in-disppiae b~tween
the*parties, as the ease stands upon the Writ orewor.in tins cqurt .-not 6dn
that.
*hich was in dispute in'6erircqit court; [q4]
-If-the writ of eror be-brought bjihe-lJaintff-bejow; then Ihesum ,which
j&
.M
declaratidn shows to be (tze mp.'be still recoveredishodld the Jidginirt fdr a

smaller purn be reversed; .aW. conseqtlentiy tue Wbcoe su clainea is suill
in
dispute. [34]
But if the writ of error.be brouglt.by the "defendant in .he original action,tle
-judgment of jhis court en only.affi -mthat U the' ircfiit cougt, and cobse"quentlythe matter in ;disputd cannot 'exceed 'the -amopnr oi' thaijjudgmet.t.
Nothing but thatjudgment is in dispute between tne part.es. .L3 .4

WRIT of error to the circuit %court for the district of
Louisiana.
Mr Ogden moved to dismi.s, the
writof error in this case,
on the ground that the court had not jurisdiction of the cause,
the sum in controversy not amountilig to-two thotsand dollars, the amount for which a Writ of error s allowed. *He
stated, that the action wad instituted for the viblation of a"
patent, and tne amount of the recovery in damages was four
hundred dollars, by the verdict ofthe jury. If, under the
provision of the paterit law, the Zlamages are to be 'trebled,
it will not amount to a sum authorising the writ of err.or.'
Although the damages laid in the- declaration are two
thousand six hundred dollars, yet, after verdict, as th" Writ
of error i§taken by-the cefendant.below, the only matter in
dispute-here is the mount of the'verdict, or at.mos1,,tr.eble
that, sam,. being'twelve hundred dollars.- It -the sum stated
in the declaration shall be allowed to ascertain the -amount'
in-dispute, in every. case. of tort or of .claims of-uncertain_
damages, the pIainiff, whomight insert any.sbm in his .dclaration,could secure the right to a writ of error tb this-court.
-Mr'Cox, forihe -plaintiff in error, the 4defendant below,
on the- authority of Wilson vs. Daniel, 3 Dall. Rep. 401,
VOL.IIIL-E

SUPREME COURT.
(Goriinn and others vs. Ogden.l

1 Condensed Reports, 185, contended, that the matter in
dispute originally, determined the jurisdiction ; and in this
case the sum stated in the declaration ascertains the amount.
He also cited Payton 44. Robettsori, 9 Wheaton, 527. Cooke
vs. Woodrow, 5 Cranch, 14.
Mr C. J.MARSHALL delivered the oninion of the Court.

A motion has been made to dismiss his writ of error because the court has no jurisdiction -over it. The plaintiff
,below claimed more than two thousand dollars in his deelalation, but obtaihed a judgment for a less sum. The defend-.
ant below has stied out a writ of error, and contends now
that the matter in dispute is not determined by the judgmenf,
but by thesum claimed in the declaration.
This court has jurisdiction over final judgments and decrees.ofthe'circuit court', where the matter in dispute exceeds
the sum or value of two thousand dollars. The'jurisdiction of
the court has been supposed to depend on the sum or value of
the matter in dispute in this court, not on that which was in
ilispute in the circuit court. If.the writ of error be brought by
the plaintiff below, then the sum which his declaration shows
io be cl.ue may be still recovered, should the judgment for a
smiller sum be reversed ; and conseauently the whole sum
claimed ig.still.in dispute.*But If the writ of error be brought
by the defendant in the original action, the judgment 6f this
bourt can.orily affirm that of the circuit court, and consequently the. matter in dispute-cannot exceed the airiount of
-that judgment. Nolhing. ludt that-judgriient is in dispute between, the parties. The counsel fdr the plaintiff in error relies
on jhe case of Wilson v .Daniel, 3Iall. 401. That case,- it
is admitted,'is in poihL[.. :It turns on the principle that the
jditsdiction of this court depends on.the sum which was in
dispute befdre the judgment was rendered, in ihe circuit
ourt. - Although 'that case was deided'by a divided court,
and although we-think, that upon the true construction of the
twenty-secon.dtsection of the judicial act, the jurisdiction of
the court.depends qpon thesum in dispuate between the parties
dd the case stands upon the'writ of error,-we shoald be much
inclined to adhere to thodecision in 'Wilson vs. Daniel, had
not a'contrary practice since prevailed. InCooke vs. Wood-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Gordon and others vs. Ogden.)

row, 5 Cranch, 13, this court said, " ifthe judgment below be
for the plaintiff, that judgment ascertains the value of the matter in dispute." This howevei was said in a case in which
the defendant below was plaintiff in error, and in which the
judgment was a sufficient sum to give jurisdiction.

The case of Wise and Lynn vs. The Columbian Turnpike
Company, 7 Cranch, 276, was dismissed because the sum for
which judgment was rendered in the circuit court was not
sufficient to'give ,jurisdiction, although the claim before the
commissioners of the road, which was the cause of action and
the matter in -dispute in the circuit court, wag sufficient. The
reporter adds, that all thejudges were present.
Since this- decision we do not recollect that the question
has been ever made, The silent practice of the court has
conformed'to it. The reason of the limitation is that the ex-.
pense of litigation in this court ought not to be incurred, unless the matter in dispute exceeds two thousand dollars.
This reason applies only to the matter in dispute between the
parties in this court.
We are all of opinion that the writ of error be dismissed,
the court having no jurisdiction of the cause.
This cause came on to-be heard on the transcript of the
record from the district court of the United States for the
district of East Louisiana, and was argued by 'counsel; on
consideration whereof, and of the motion made by Mr Ogden
in this cause on a prior day 6f this term, to wit, on Thursday, the 28th of January of the present term of this court, to
dismiss this writ of error for want of jurisdictionoti6 amount
in controversy not exceeding the sum of two thousand dollars ; it is ordered and adjudged by this court that the writ
of error in this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed
for want of jurisdiction, on the ground that the sum in controversy does not exceed the sum of two thousand dollars,
and the same is dismissed accordingly.

