SUPREME COURT.

WIMrA

nq ERROR VS. WYLLIS SILLtA
M'CLVNY, PL~rNTDI
DEFLNDANT IN ERROR.

,

The plaintiff sued the defendant, as register of the United States land offied in
Ohio, for damages, for having refused to .noteon his books applications made
by him for the purchase of land within his aistrict. The declaration charged
the'register With this refusal, the lands had never been applied for nor sold,
and Vvere at the time of then application'liable to be so applied for and sold.
The statute of limitations is a good plea to the-suit.
It is a well settled principle that a statute'of limitations is the law of the forum,
and operates upon all who submit themselves to its jurisdiction. [976],
Under the thitty-fourth section of the judiciary actof 1789, the acts of lititations
of the several states, where no special provision has been made by congress,
form a rule of dcsion in the courts of the United States, *andthe same effect
is given to them as is given In the state courts. [277]
Construction of the statute of limitations of the state of Ohio. [278]
Where the statdte of limitations is not restricted to particular causes of action,
but provides that the action, by its technical denomination, shall- bb barred if
not brought within d limited time, every cause for which such action may be
prosecuted is within the statute. [278]
In giving a construction to the statute of limitations of'Ohio, the action being,
barred.by its denomination, the. court' cannot loo into the, cause of actibn.
They may do this in those cases where actions are'hated for iauses specified
In the statute; for the statute only .perates against such actions, when prose.
cuted on the gr6unds stated. [278]
Of late years the courts in England and in'this country have considered statutes
of limitations more favourably thon formerly. They rest upoi sound policy,
and tend to the peace andwelfare of society. The courts do-not now, unless
compelled by the force of former decisions, give a strained construction, to
evade the effect of those statutes. By requiring those who complain of inju.
ries to seeli redress by action at law within a reasonable time, a salutary vigl-.
lance is imposed, and an end is put to litigation. [278]

ERROR to the circuit court of Ohio.
In the circuit tourt-of Ohio, the plaintiff in error instituted
a suit on the 15th .of Deoe .tuer18"3, against the defendant,
who'was register of the United States land office at Zanesville; to recover damages for having, as register,. refused to
enter an applicatibn in the bboks of his"officp.for certain
lands in his district; the entry having been reiquired to be
made according to the .provisions of the tenth section of the
act of congress, passed'the- 18th of May 1796, entitlei '! an

JANUARY TERM .1830.
[M'Cluny vs. Silliman.]

act providing for the sale of the lands of the United States,
*in the territory north west of-the river Ohio, and above the
mouth of the lKentucky river." The declaration charges
that the register, on the 2d of August 1810, refused to'enter
the application, although the lands had never.been legally
applied for or sold, and were then liable 'to be applied for
and sold.
The defendant pleaded not guilty, and not guilty within
six years before the commencement of the suit. To the
latter plea there was a denitirrer, and joinder in demurrer.
The circuit court overruled the demurrer, ,and sustained the'
plea of the statute of limitations. The plaintiff prosecuted
this writ of error; and sought to r~verse the judgment on
the grounds:
1. That ihe statutb of limitations does not sppl to an
action upon the case brought for an .act, of nonfeasance or
misfeasance in office.
2. That no statute of limitations of the state of Ohio, then
in force, is-pleadable to an action upon the case brought by
a citizen of one state against a citizei of another, in,
the
*circuit court of the United States for malfeasance or non--feasdnce in office, in .a ministerial officer of'the general government ;-and especialiy"vhere the.plaintiff's rights accrued
to~him under a law of congress.
Mr Doddridge; for the plaintiff inerror, argued, that -there
are many cases within the.words of the statute of 21 James 1.
ch. 16, -for limitation of personal actions,-which 'are -not
within its meaning ;.as debt against asheriff for an escape';
debt against a sheriff for money levied; actions ex maleficio;
debt for not settig out tithes under the statute, .although
founded on the highest record, an act of parliam.nt; debt
on award,, although founded on contract. 1 Saund. Rep. tit.
Statute. 5 Bac. 5"09. 2 Lev. 191. Esp. N. P. 653.
Out of the clause limiting, actions for words, are excepted,
slander of title ;.scandalum magnatum. -Cr0. Ch. 141.
Esp. N. P. 519.
The statute does not extend to trusts, to'charities or to.

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Cluny vs. Silliman.]

legacies. :3 Bac. Ab. 510. 2 Lord Ray. 852,935. 1204. Salk.
301,. pl. It. 5 Mod. 308. 1 Wash. 145.. 4Munf. 222.
Statutes of limitation are leges fori; nnd it rests with
the sovereign power of tie state to siy how far the interests
of the society it represents require that -its own -courts
shall be kept open to give redress in each particular case,
or whether there shall be any limitation of personal -actions.
It peculiarly belongs to each government to say how long
its ministerial officers shall be exposed to the claims of those
who consider themselves aggrieved by their acts of- mis-feasance or nonfeasance; consequently, in such cases, the statutes of limitation of one state cannot be pleaded in bar in
the courts of another state. '2 Mass. 84. 1 Caine§, 402. 3
Johns. 261, 263. 2 Johns. 198. 2'Vern. 540. 13 East,
-439, 450- 7 Mass. 515. 3 Johns. Ch. Rep. 217, 219. 17
Mass. 55.
Neither in Virginia, nor in Pennsylvania, nor in New York,
are cases found of a plea Of the statute of limitations in an
action arising ex maleficio. It'is claimed, that the right to
such a plea does not exist in the courts of either of those
states. There are no cases in this court. In all. those in
which, the -plea of the statute, of limitations has been -sustained, the statutes of the state have been pleaded to suits
in the federal courts. 2 Cranch, 272, 1 Condensed Rep.
411. Hopkirk vs. Bell, 3 -Cranch, 454, 1 Condensed Rep.
595. Mandeville et al. vs. Wilson. '5 Cranch, 15. 7
Cranch, 156. 8 Crdnch; 84. .3 Wheat. 541. 5 Wheat. 124.
6 Wheat. 481i 497.
The nature of the case prevenfs there being a state 'decision in affirmance of the principles claimed for the plaintiff
in error - The question is no more or less than this: where
-a duty is created by-an act of congress, to be performed by
a ministerial officer ofthe general government, for the bene,fit of a citizen of another state, whose rights groiv out of the
same law, and- the injured party, as a citizen.of another
state, sues the officer in a federal court for malfeasance or for
nonfeasance ;'can that officer plead-in bar a statute of the
silte made for the protection of its own ministerial officers ?

JANUARY TERM 1830..
[M'Cluny vs. Silliman.]

The circuit court in the trial of civil actions arising under
the law of a state, or cognizable by its. courts, where-a ciizen
of another state or a foreigner is plaintiff, act -precisely as
a state court, and is bound to interpret and enforce its laws
as .they are made to operate in the state courts.
If the law of Ohio' can be pleaded at all, it'isthe act
of the 24th of January 1810, which went into operation the
1st of June 1810 ; the act which is the cause of action-in
this suit having been done in August*1810.' That law, 4 Ohio
Laws, page' 62, sect. 1, profides "that all actions of trespass' for assault, menace, battery, or wounding, actions of
slander for words spoken or libel, or false imprisonment,
shall be brought within one year next-after the cause of such
actions or suits; and all actions upon book accounts, and for.
forcible entry and detainer, .shal) be brought within -four
years next after the cause of such actions and suits ; and all
actions 6f trespass upon real property, trespass, detinue, trover and conversion, and replevin, all actions on the case, or
of debt for rent, shall be sued or brought within six years
next after the cause of such action arose."
This act is not a copy of the statute of James 1. ch. 16;
and all 'the objections that would urge the exemption of
suits; ex maleficio, from that statute,-may be presented under
the law of Ohio; other exceptions may also be claimed.
"A.ctions on the case" 'are associated with actions arising
ex contractu ; afld thus. actions arising out of contract are
only intended to be provided for-nothing is said in the law
of actions ex maleficio.
If actions of this kind ate embraced by the act of 1810,
they are only soby a forced.construction of the words." dictions on the case," associated and classed-in the 'same *tatute
with various actions arisirig ex contractu: while in a subsequent law-of Ohio, passed in 1824, they are described in
express terms, and naturally associated in the same sentence
with various other actions, arising ex delicto.
But if these actions are embraced in the act of i810, they
must be such only as maybe, prosecuted against officers
of the state. Actions against officers of the United States
were not in the view or contemplation of the legislature ot
VeOL, IIL-2 K"

SUPREME COURT.
[MICluny vs. Silliman.]

Ohio when the law was enacted, nor did they intend to afford protection, to ariy officer but one b f.the'state. Certainly
the legislature had not before them -the protection of the
registers of the United States land office, from suits, for a
violation of duties by which the citizens of Ohio might be
*injured.
To apply the regulationS of the severil states to such cases,
would produce the absurdity and injustice of different laws,
and different limitations existing in different states. If the
power of state legislatures to limit actions against officers of
the United States i§ admitted, the power over those officers
might'be exercised in other and in oppressive legislative
provisions.
The statute of Ohio cannot be enlarged by construction,
so .as to apply it to things not properly within state control, nor within the intention contemplated bythose who enacted it.
Mr Berrien, attorney general, for the defendant in error,
contended; that the applichtion and authority of state statutes of limitattibns to suits in the.circuit courts of the United
States, had been frequently decided in. this court. What
may have been the intention of.the legislatures of the states
in enacting limitation laws is not inquired into, and is not
material; the only question is, whether the law applies to
the case.
Faw vs. Roberdeau, 3 Cranch, 174, 1 Condensed Rep. 483. Hopkirk vs. Bell, 3 Cranch, 454, 1 Condensed Rep. 595. Marsteller vs. M'Clean, 7 Cranch, 156,
1"58." King vs. Riddle, 7 Cranch, -168: Bond vs. Jay, 7
•Cranch, 350. Clementson vs. illiams,- 8 Cranch, 72, &c.
It is.admitted that this action was not commenced withinsix years, and that it is in its nature an action which would
be-within the operation of the law of Ohio, unless a'con;
struction shall be given to thaflaw different from the general
and
usual
import of its terms.
The
argument,
that the association, of the action on the
case with debt for rent, proves that pecuniary actions were
oaly. to-be barred, will not be found correct; as "forcible
entry and book accounts" are in: the-same association.
I

JANUARY TERM 1830.
EM'Cldny vs. Silliman.]

The 'plain and obvious construction of the law io that
which has been-given -by the circuit cout. The different
kinds of action, and causes of action upon which ihe limitations of the law wer6- intended, to operate; were in the
view and puipose of the legislature of Ohio; the associa.tion
or classification .was notbecause the cases were analogous,
or had an affinity one to the other, but because of the iintention that the action of. the statute'should be the same as
to time on each of the members of. the'blass.
The words of the statute of Ohio lei'ng' general, unless
the officers under the governmetit of the United-States are
especially exempted, tfiey may avail. themselves of its provisions.
Cited, 2-Stark. on Ev. 901. 1 Saund. 37. 3'Bacon, 509.
Ballatitifie on Limitations,.88.
Mr Justice M'LF.N delivered the opinion of the Court:
This:suit .Was brought by the plaintiff against the defend-ant, as. register of the. United States land office -at Zanesville 'in therdistrict of Ohio. The declaration charges, that
-on the .2d.of August, in the year 1810, the plaintiff produced
to the. dee ndant, in his office of register, the receipts of-the
receiver of pub*lic'm.oneys at that.office, as follows, viz. one
number three .thousand two hundred and fifty-five, and another 'number three thousand two, hundred and fifty-six,
amounting together to the sum of one huiidred and ninety
dollars eightyvnine- cents of moneys paid by the plaintiff- to
the receiver,"for the purchase of public lands in the said
4istrict, being the one-tiventieth part of the purchase money
for section number six, in township number twelve, and rangenumber thirteen, and fra'ctibn number five, in the same township and range adjoining.the said section; and for section
number tivelve, and fraction number 'one,-adjoining in township-number thirteen, and range number fourteen of public
lands within that district: and that the plaintiff then ind
there applied to the-defendant for the purchase of the said
lands, that is,,each of the-said' sections with the fractions
attached according to law, and requested thai his-applica-

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Cluny vs. Silliman.]

tion should be entered on tile books of the defendant's office;
upon which application, the defendant informed the plaintiff that the said lands had been sold at Marietta, before the
establishment of the land office at Zanesville ; end if not so
sold there, that they had not been offered at public sale at
Zanesville : whereupon the plaintiff insisted on his applications, and-requested to have them entered, according to the
provisions of the tenth section of the act of congress, approved the 18th of. May 1796, entitled "an act providing
for the sale of the ' lands of the United-States, in the territory north west of the river Ohio, and above the mouth of
Kentucky river." The declaration then charges, that the
register refused to enter the application, although the lands
had never been legally applied for nor sold, and were then
liable to be applied, for and sold. -The damages are laid'
at fifty thousand dollars.
To this declaration, the defendant pleaded not guilty,
whereupon issue is joined; and not guilty within six years
before the commencement of the suit. To the latter plea
there is a general-demurrer, and joinder in -demurrer. The
circuit court of the United States for the district of Ohio
overruled'this demurrer,,and sustained the plea of the statute
of limitations; and this Writ of error is brought to reverse
that decision.
For the plaintiff in error, it is cbntened:
I. That the statute of limitatibns does not apply to an action upon the case, brought for- an act of nonfeasance or
malfeasance in office.
2. *That no-statute of limitations of the state of Ohio,
then in force, is pleadable to an action upon the case brought
by a citizen of one state against a citizen of another, in the
circuit court of the United States,-for malfeasance or nonfeasance in office, in a ministerial officer of the general government, and especially where the plaintiff's rights accrued
to, him under a law'of congress.
The decision in this cause depends upon the constiuction
of the statute of Ohio, which prescribes the time within
which certain actions must be brought. It is a well settled

JANUARY TERM 1830.

277

['CIh y vs. oSiluman.]

principle, that a statute of -limitations is the law of the ibrum,
and operates upon all who submit themselves to its jurisdiction.
In the thirty-fourth section of. the judiciaryact' of 1789,
it is provided, "that the laws of the several states, except
where the constitution, treaties, or statutes' of the United
States shall otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded
as rules of decision in trials at.common law, in. the courts of
the United States,.in cases where they apply."
Under this statute, the acts of limitations of the several
states, where na special provision has been made by congress, form a rule of decision in the courts of the .United
States, and the same effect is given to them as is given in
the state courts. The act in question provides, "that all
-actions hereinafter mentioned, .shall be sued or brought
within tfie time hereinafter limited; all actions-of trespass
for assault, menace, battery and wounding, actions of slander for words spoken or libel, and for false imprisonment,
within one year 'next after the cause of such actions or suits;
and all actions of book accounts, or for forcible entry and
detainer, or forcible detainer, within four 'years after the
cause'of such action or suits; and all actions 6f trespass.
upon real property, ,trespass, detinue, trover and conversion
and replevin, all actions upon the case,-and of debt for rent,
shall be sued or brought within six years next after the cause
of such actions or suits."
It is contended, that this statute' cannot be so construed
against hn officer
as to 'interpose a' bar to .ny remedy sought
the performance of his.
in
failure
a
for
States,
United
the
of
duty : that such a case could not have been contemplated by
the legislature; that the language of the statute does not ne-cessarily embrace it ; and consequently, the statute can only
apply.in -cases 6f nonfeasance or malfeasance. in office, to
-persons who, act under the authority of the state, and are
amenable to it.
It is not probable that the legislature of Ohio, in the passage of this statute, had any refereice to -the misconduct of
an officer of the United States. Nor does it-seem to have
been their intention to restrict the provision of the statute

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Cluny vs. SiUiman.]

to any particular causes for which the action on the case will
lie. In-the actions of trespass, debt,.and covenant specified,
the particular causes of-action barred by the statute are
stated; but this is not done in the action on the case, nor is
it done in the action of detinue, trover and conversion, and
replevin..
Where the statute is not restricted to particular causes~of
action, but provides that the action, by.its ,technical denomination, shall be barred, ifnot brought within a limited
time, every, cause for which the action .may be - prosecuted
is within the statute.
If the statute reqiuired the action of debt for rent to be
brought within six years from the time the cause of action
arose, the bar could extend to no other action 'of debt. But,
if the statute provided that' all actions of debt should be
prosecuted within six years,- then it.would operate against
the action,. for whatever cause it was brought.
The action. on the case must be brought .within,six years
from the time the cause of action arose, and it is immaterial
what that cause may be; the statute bars the remiedy, by
this form of action, if it.be not prosecuted within the time.
In. giving a construction to this statute, where the action
is barred by its denomination, the court cannot look into the
cause of action. They may do this in those cases where actibns are barred when brought for causes specified iii the
statute; for the statute only operates against such actions
when prosecuted on the grounds statdd.
By bringing his action on the case, the plaintiff has selected the appropriate remedy for the injury complained of.
This remedy the statute bars. Can the court then,, by referring to the ground of the' action, take the case out of the
statute.
The demurrer admits-the plea of the statute; and as it declires, in express terms, that the action is barred,- the court
can give no other effect to it by construction.
Of late years the c6uits in England, and in this country,
have considered statutes of limitations more favourably than
formerly. They rest upon sound policy, and tend to- the
peace and welfare of society. The courts do not now, unless

JANUARY TERM 1830.

279

L'M'Cuny vs. Siulman,]
compelled by -the force of former decisions, give a strained
construction, to evade the'effect of those statutes. By requiring thos.e who complain of injuries to seek redress, by
action at law,. within a reasonable'time, a salutary vigilance
is imposedi and an end is put tolitigation.
The judgment in this case must be affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript-of the
record from the, circuit court of the United States for the
district of Ohio, and was argued by counsel; on consideration
whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said. circuit c'urt in this cause be, and the
same is hereby affirmed with costs.

