"242'

SUPREME COURT.

ANN SHANNB;

M]AR0AI1TTA SHA"qs, SARAu P. SHrARx , GRACE
F. SnHAns, AND Emu SmtRns, (APPELLAtTS' 3ELOW) PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR v8. 'ABRAE'Ao

DurONT AND JANE HIS

VIFE,

DANIEL PEPPER AND ANN PrPPER, DEFENDANTS rN ERROR.

Thom"s Scoti, a native of South Carolina, died in 1792, intestate, selsed of
land on James Island, having twb daughters, Ann and. ,fary, both born in
South Carolina before the declaration of independence. Sarah married D. P.
a citizen of South Carolina, and-died in 1802, entitled to one half of the estate.
The British took possession of James Island and Charlestorn in February and
May.1780, and in 1781 Ann Scott inakrried Joseph.Sbanks, a British officer,
and at the -evacuation of Charleston in 1782,*she went to England with her
husband, where she remained until her death in. 1801. She left five children
born in England. They claimed the other moiety of the real estate of Thomas
Scott, in right of their mother, under'te ninth article of the treaty of peacebetween this country and-Great Britain of the 19th of November 17 4. Haeld
that they were entitled to recover knd hold the same.
If Ann Scqtt was of age.before December 1782, as she rAmained in South Carolina. until thatime, her birth and residence must be deemed to constitute her
by election a citizen of South Carolina, while she remained in that state.. If
she was not of age then, under the circumstances of this case, she might well
be deemed to hbld the citizenship of her father; for children born in a country,
continuiog whife under age in the family of the fathcr, partake of his natural
character as a citizen of that country. [245]
All British born subjects whose allegiance-Great Britain has never renounced,
ought, upon general principles.of interpretation, to be held within the intent,
as they certainly tre within the words of the treaty of 1794. [250]
The capture and ii6ssession of James Island in February 1780, and of Charleston.
on the 11th of May in the same ydar, by the British troops,'was not an absolute
change of the allegiance of the captured inhabitants. They owed allegiance
to the conquerors during their occupatioA; but it wvas a temporary allegiance,
wiblch did net destroy, bt only suspended their former allegiance, [246].
The marriage ofAin Scott with Shanks, a British officer, did not 'cbange or destroy her "ailegiance to the state of South Carolina, becaiuse marriage with an
- alieir, whether friend or enemyproduces no dissolution of the native allegiance
of the wife. [246]
The general doctrine is, that no person can, by any at of their own, without the
ieon'sent of the government, put off their allegiance and become aliens. [246]
The subsequent removal of'Ann Shanks, to England with her husband, operates
as a virtual disiolution ofher allegiance, and fixed her future allegiande to the
British crown by the treaty of peace in 1783." [246]
The treaty of 1783 acted'upon the state of things as it existed at that 'Period. It
took the actual. state of things as its basis. All those, whether natives or
otberwise, who then adhered to.the American states, were virtilly absolved
from all allegiance to the Biitish crown; all those who then adhered to the
British crown were deemed and held 'subjects of that crown. The treaty df

JANUARY TERM 1830

243"'

[Shanks eta]. vs. Dupont et al.]
peace was a treaty operating between states and the inhabitants.4hereof.
[247]
The incapacities of fei:6s covert provided by the common law, apply to,their
civil rights, and aro for their protection and interest. But they. do not reach
their political righfs, nor prevent their acquiring'or losing a national ,character.
These political rightr do not stand upon the mere doctrines of municipal law,
applicabld to ordinary transactions, but stand upon the more general principles
of the la* of nations.. [248]

THIS was a writ of error from the supreme court of.appeali
in law and equity, in and for the state of South Carolina.
The suit arose out of a partition" of a tract of land in the
state of South Carolinga the. right of the plaintiffs in-error to
a moieity having been denied on the ground of their alienage,
and their consequent incapacity .to inherit the same.
The case was argued at January term 1829, by Mr Cruger and Mr Wirt for the plaintiffs in error; and by Mr Legar6 for the defendants; and Was held under advisemerit tothis term.
The facts of the case are fully stated in the opinion of the
court.

The counsel for theo plaintiffs in"error contended thaiAnn Shanks, tlie mother.of-the .plaintiffs in error, was a Bri'tish subject, and thai her title waisI pr.ptectedl by theL treaty of
1'7k94. The decree of the court of the state of- South Carolina was therefore erroneous, and should have been in favour
of -the plaintiffs, for a moiety of the land of which Thomas
Scott.died seised.
-

-

The dafendant in eror insisted, that*the decree of the
state court ought to be affirmed, because. Mrs Shanks was
an Arherican citizen, capable of holding by the laws of
South Carolina; so that there was no iiterest or title in her,
to which the ninth article of the treaty of 1794, by which
the titles of British subjects, holding lands in this country,
were saved from the disabilities of alienage,'could in any wise
attach.
Mr Justice STORi delivered, the opinion of the Court.
This was a Writ.of error-to the highest court of appeals iii

SUPREME COURT.
[Shanks et at. vs: Dupont et aL]

law and equity of the state of South Carolina; brought to revise the decision of that court, in a bill or petition in equity,
in which the present defendants were original plaintiffs, and
the. present plaintiffs were original defendants. From the
record of the case it appeared that the controversy before.
the court respected the right to the moiety of the proceeds
of a certain tract of land, which had been sold under a former
decree in equity, and the proceeds of which had been brought
into the registry of the court. One moiety of the proceeds
had been paid over to the original plaintiffs, and the other
moiety was now in controversy. The original plaintiffs claimed this moiety also .upon the ground that the original deferndants were aliens and incapable of taking the lands by
descent from their mqther, Ann Shanks, (who was admitted
to have taken the moiety of the land by descent from her
father Thomas Scott,) they being British born subjects.
The facts, as they were agreed by the parties, and as they
appeared on the record, were as follows,
Thomas Scott the ancestor, and -first purchaser, was a native of the colony of South Carolina, and died intestate,
selsed of the lands in dispute, in 1782. He left surviving
him two daughters, Sarah and Ann,"who weie also born in
South Carolina, before the declaration.of independence.
Sarah Scott intermarried with Daniel Pepper, a citizen of
South Carolina, and resided with him in that stateamntil 1802,
when she died leaving children, the present defendants in
error, whose right to'her share of the property is conceded.
The British took possession of James Island, on the 11th
of February 1780, and Charleston surrendered to them on
the lth of May in the same year.
In 1781, Ann Scott was married to Joseph Shanks, a British officer, and at the evactiation of Charleston, in December 1782, went with, him to -England, where she remained
until her death, in 1801. She left five children, the present
plaintiffs in error, British subjects, who -claimed in right of
their mother, and under the ninth article of the treaty of
peace between this country and dreat Britain of the 19th
of November 1794, .a r&oiety of their grandfather's eqate in
South Carolina.
-The decision of the state court was against this claim, as

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Shanks et al. vs. Dupont et al.

not within-the protection of the.treaty, because Mrs Shanks
was an American citizen.
The cause .was argued by Cruger and Wirt, for the plaintiffs in error; and by Mr Legar6, for the defendants in error.
After the'elaborate opinions, expressed in thecase of Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour, ante p. 99,
upon tie question of alienage, growing out of the American
Revolution; it is unnecessary to do more in delivering the
opinion of the court in the present case, than to state, in a
brief manner, 'the grounds on Which our'decision, is founded.
Thomas Scott, a native of South Carolina, died in 1782:
seised of 'the land in dlspute, leaving' two daughters surviving him, -Sarah, the mother of thd defendants in error, and
Ann, the mother of the plaintiffs in error. Without question Sarah took one moiety of the land by descent ; and the
defendants in error, as'her heirs, are entitled to it. The
'only question is whether Ann took the other moiety by descent; and if so, whether the plaintiffs in error are capable
of taking the same by descent from her.
Ani Scott was born in South Carolina, before the American revolution; and her father adhered to the American
cause, and remained and was at his death a citizenof South
Carolina. There is.no disput6 that his daughter Ann, at the
time of the revolution; and afterwards, 'remained in South
Carolina 'until December. 1782. Whether she-was of age
during thiis time does not appear. If she, was, then her birth
and residence might be deemed to constitute her by election a citizen of South Parolina. If she .was not f age, then
she.might well be deemdd under the -circumstances of this
,case to hold the citizenship of her father; for children born
in a coqqpry continuing while under age in the family of the
father, partake of his national character, as a citizen of that
country.. Her citizenship, tben, being prima facie 'established, and indeed this is admitted in the pleadings, has it ever
been lost; or was it.lost before the death of her father, so
that the estate in, question was, upon the descentlcast, incapabie of vesting in her !. Upon the facts stated, it appears
to us that it was not lost; and that she was capable of- taking it at the time of the descent cast.
The only facts which are brought to support the suppo-

SUPREME COURT
-

[Shanks et al.vs. Dupont et al.]

shion; that she became an alien, before the death of her
father, are; that the British captured James Island in Febru-:
ary 1780, and Charleston in May 1780; that she was then
and afterwards remained under the British dominion in virtue
of the capture; that in 1781, she married Joseph Shanks, a
British officer, and upon the evicuation of Charleston in.
Decernber 1789, she went with her husband, a British subject, .to England, and there- remained until her death in
1801.. Now, in the first place, the capture and possession
by the British was not an absolute change of the allegiance
of 'the captured inhabitants. They owed allegiance indeed
to the 'conquerors during their occupation; but it was a temp'orary allegiance, which did not destroy, but only suspend
their. former allegiance. It did'not annihilate their allegianpe
to tie state of South Carolina, and make thpm de facto
aliens.: That cobld only 'be by a treaty of peace, which
shouldcede the territory, and them with it; or by a permanent conquest, not disturbed or controverted by arms, which
would lead to a like result. Neither did the marriage with
Shanks produce that effect; because marriage with an alien,
whether a friend .or an enemy, produces no dissolution of
-the n4tive .allegiance of the wife. It may change her civil
rights, but it does not effect her political rights or privileges . The general doctrine is, that no persons can by any
act 6f their own, without the consent of the governmen.t,
put- off their allegiance, and become' aliens. If it were
otherwise, then a femme alien would by her marriage become, ipso facto, a citizen, and would be dowable of the
estate of her husband ; which are clearly contrary to. law(a).
. Our conclusion therefoie is, that .neither of these acts
warrant the court in saying that Ann Shqnks had ceased to
be a citizen of South Carolina, at the death of her father.
This is not, indeed, controverted in the allegations of'the
parties.
The question then is, whether her subsequent removal
with her husband operated as a virtual dissolution of-ber allegiance, and fixed her future allegiance to the British crown
(a) See Kelly vs. Harrison, 2 Jobns. Cas. 29. Co. Litt. 31, b.
Alien. C. 1. Dowerx A. 2. Bacon's Abridg. Alien. 'Dower, A.

Corn. Dig.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Shanks et al.-vs. Dupont et-al.]

by the treaty of peace of 1783. Pur opinion is that it did.
In the first place, she was born under the allegiance of the
British crown, and no act of the government of Great Britain
ever absolved her from that allegiance. Her becoming a.
citizen of South Carolin4 did, not, ipso facto, work any digsolution of her original allegiance, atleast so.far as the rights
and claims of the BritiAh erdwn were concerned. During
the war, each party claimed the allegiance of the natives of
the colonies" as due exclusively to itself. The American
states insisted upon the allegiance of all born within the
states respectively; and Great Britain asserted an equally
exclusive claim. The treaty of peace of 1783 acted upon
the state of things as it existed at that Period. It took the
actual state of. things as its basis. All those, whether natives or otherwise, who then adhered to the American states,
were virtually absolved from all allegiance to the British
,crown. All those who then adhered to the. Bjitish crov,
were deemed and held subjects of that crown. The treaty'
of peace was a treaty operating between'the states, on each
side, and the inhabitants thereof; in the language of the seventh article, it was afirm and perpetual peace between his
Britannic majesty and the said states, "and between the subjects of'the one and the citizens of the other." Who were
then subjects or citizens, was to be decided by the state of
facts. If they were originally subjects of Great Britain
and then adhered to her, and were claimed by her as subjects, the treaty deemed them such. . If they were originally
British subjects, but then adhering to tie states, the treaty
deemed them citizens. Such, I think, is the natural, and
indeed almost necessary meaning of the treaty; it would
otherwise follow, that there would continue a.double, allegiance of many persons; an inconvenience which must have.
been foreseen, and would cause the-most injurious effects to
both nations.
It cannot, we ttrmk, be doubted that Mra Shanks, being
then voluntarily undVr British protection, and adhering to
the British side, by her removal with her husband was deemed by the British governmeit-to .retain-her allegiance, and
to be, to all intents and purposes, a Britisi subject. It may

SUPREME 'COURT.
[Shanks et al. vs. Dupont et al.]

be said 'that, being sub potestate viri, she had no right to
make an election; nor ought she to be bound by an: act of
removal under his authority or persuasion. If-this were a
case of a crime alleged against Mrs Shanks, in connexion
with her husband, there might be force in the argument.
But it must be considered, that it was at most a mere election of allegiance between two nations, each of which claimed her allegiance. The governments, and not herself, finally
settled her national character. They did not- treat her as
capable by herself of changing or absolving her-allegiance;
but they virtually allowed her the benefit of her choice, by
,ixing her allegiarice finally on the side of that party to
whom she then adhered.
It does not appear to us that her situation as a feme covert
disabled her from a change of allegiafice.. British femes
covert residing here with their husbands at the time of our
independence, and adhering tq our side until the close of the
war, have been always supposed to have become thereby
American citizens, and to have been absolved from their
antecedent British allegiance. The. incapacities of. femes
covert, provided by the common law, apply to their civil
rights, and are for their protection and interesi. But they
do not reach their political rights, nor prevent their acquiring
or loing a national character. Those.political rights do'not
stand upon the mere doctrines of municipal law, applicab)e
to ordinary transactions, but stand upon the more generalprinciples of the law of nations. The case of Martin vs-.
Tile Commonwealth, I Mass. Rep. 347, turned upon. very
different considerations. There the question was, whether'
a feme covert should be deemed to' have forfeited her estate for an offence committed with her husband, by withdrawing from the state, &c. under -the confiscation. act of
1779 ; and it was held that she was not within the purview
of the act. The same remark dlposes 4f the case of Sewall vs. Lee, 9 Mass. Rep. 363, where the court expressly
refused to decide whether the wife by her withdrawal with
her husband became an alien. But in Kelly vs. Harrison,
2 Johns. Cas. 29f the reasoning of the court proceeds upon
the supposition, that the wife might have acquired the saine

JANUARY TERM 1830.
tShanks°t al.
vs. Dupont et al.l

ditizens hip with her husband, by withdrawing with him from
the British dominions(a).
But if Mrs Shanks's -citizenship was not virtually taken
away by her adherence to the British at the peace of 1783,
still it must be admitted that, in the view of the British government, she was, at that time, and ever afterwards to the
time of her death, and indeed at all antecedent periods, a.
British subject. At most, then, she vas liable to be considered as in that peculiar situation, in which she owed allegjance to both governments, ad utriusque fidemregis. Under
vich circumstances, the question arises Whether she and her
heirs are not within the purview of the ninth article of the
treaty with Great Britain of 1794. It appears to us-that they
plainly are. The language of that article is, "that British
eubject8 who now hold lands in the territories of the United
States, and -American citizens who now hold lands in the
dominions ofhis majesty, shall continue'to hold them according to The nature and tenure of their respective estates and
titles therein, &c. &c.; and that n'either they, nor their
heirs or a~signs shall, so far as respects the said lands, and
the legal remedies incident thereto, be regarded as alens.
Now, Mrs Shanks was at the time a British subject, and
she then held the lands in controversy; she is therefore within
the words of the treaty. Why ought she not also to be held
within the spirit and intent . It is said that the treaty meant
to protect the right of British subjects, who were not also
American citizens; but that is assuming the very point in
controversy. If the treaty admits of two interpretations, and
one is limited, and the other liberal; one which will further,
and the other exclude private rights; iVhy should not the
most liberal exposition be adopted . The object of the British government must have been to protect all her subjects
holding lands in America from the disability of alienage, in
respect to de'scents and sales. The class of American loyalists could'at least, in her eyes, have been in as much favour
as any other; there is nothing in our public policy which is
(a) See also Bac. Abridg. Alien A. Cro. Car. 601, 602. 4 Term Rep. 300.
Brook Abr. Denizen, 21. Jackson vs. Lunn, 3 Johns. Cas. 109.

VoL. III.-2 G

250

SUPREME COURT.'
[Shanks et al. vs. Dupgnt et al.]

more unfavourable to them than to other British subjects.
After the peace of 1783 we had no right or interest in future
confiscation; and the effect of~alienage was the same in respect to us, whether the British subject was a-native of Great
Britain or of the colonies. This part of the stipulation then
being for the'benefit of British subjets who becanie aliens
by the events of the war; there is no reason why'all persons
should not be embraced in it, who sustained the character
of -British subjects, although we might also have treated
them as American .citizens. The argument supposes that
because we should treat them as citizens, therefore Great
Britain hadno right to insist upon their being British subjects within the protection of the treaty. Now, if they were
in truth and in factupon principles of public and municipal
law, British subjects, she has an equal right to require us to
recognize them as such. It cannot be doubted that Mrs
Shanks might have nierited any lands in'England, as a
British subject, and her heirs might. have taken such lands
by descent from. her. It seems to us, then, that all British
born subjects .whose allegiance Great Britain has neve renounced, ought, upon-general principles of interpretation; to
be held-within the intent, as they certainly are within the

words, of the treaty of -1794.
In either view of this case, dnd we think bbth are sustained by-principles of publiJaw, as well as of the~common
law, and by tihe soundest tule- of interpretation, applicable
to treaties between-independent states, the'objections taken
to the right of recovery of the plaintiffs cannot.prevail.
Upon the whole, the judgment of' the court is, that the
plaintiffs in error are entitled to the moiety of the land in
controversy, which came by descent to their mother, Ann
Shanks, and of course to:the proceeds thereof; and-that the
'decree of the state court of appeals.ought to be reversed;
and the cause remanded, with directions to enter a decree
in favour of the plaintiffs in error.

Mr Justice JOHNSON, dissenting.
This cause comes up from the state court of South Caro- .
lina.

-JANUARY TERM. 1830.
ISbanks et al. vs. Puponit et al.j
-The question is whether the plaintiffs can inherit to their
mother. The objection to their inheriting is, that they are
alieris, not born in allegiance to the state .of South Carolina,
in Which'the land Iles. From the general disability of aliens
they would-exempt themselves. 1. On the ground that their
mother was a citizen born, and in that.right, though born
abroad, theycean inherit under the statute -of Edward III.
2. That- if not *protected by that- statute, then that their
mother was a British subject, and that she .and her.heirs are'
protected as to this land by the treaties of 1783 and 1794.
The, material facts of their case are, that their mother and
her father were natives born of the province (cfSouth Carolina, before the declaration of independence; that'in 1781,
while •Charleston and James Island, where the lahid lies and
she and her father resided, were in possession of the British,
their mother married their father, a British officer. That
the descenfwas cast in 1782; and in December of that year,
when the town was evacuated, she went to England with her
husband, and resided there, until her death in 1801 ; in which
.ntervalth.e appellants were born in England.
There is no q uestion about the right of the appellees, if
the right of the appellants canlibt be maintained. ,.The first of the grounds taken below, to wit, the statute of Edward III. was not pressfd in argument here, and must be
regarded as abandoned. The second requires therefore our
sole
attention.
.Was
Mrs Shanks to be regarded as a British
subject, within the meaning of our trhaties with Great Britain q. If so,
then-the land which was acquired in 1782, has the peculiar
incident attached to it of being inheritable by aliens; subjects of Great Britain.
Until the adoption of the federal constitution, titles to*
land, and the laws of allegiance, wee exclusively subjects
of .state cognizance. Up to the time therefore when this
discent was cast upon the mother the state of South Caro-lina was supreme and uncontrollable on the subject now be.fore us.
.By the adoption of the constitution, the power of the states
in this respect was subjected to some modification. But

SUPREME COURT.
vs. Dupont et al.]
[Shanks et al.

although restrained in some measure from determining who
cannot inherit, I consider her power still supreme in determining who can inherit. On this subject her own laws and
her own courts furnish the only rule for governing this or any
other tribunal.
By an act of the state passed in 1712, the common law
of Great*Britian was incorporated into the jurisprudence of
South Carolina. In the year 1782, when this descent was cast,
it was the law of the-land; and.t becomes imperative upon
these appellants, after admitting that their pafrent was a native born citizen of South Carolina, daughter of a native
born citizen of South Carolina, to show on what ground they
can escape, from the operation of these leading maxims of
common law. Nemo potest ex'ierepatriaim -- and proles sequitur sortem paternam.
The unyielding severity with which the courts of Great
Britain have adhere(. -to the first of these mhaxims in Dr Storie's case, furnished by sir Mathew Hale, and in .Enels
M'Donald's case, to be found in Foster, leaves no ground
of complaint for its most ordinary application in -the case of
descent, and its most liberal application when perpetuating
a privilege.
The treaty of peace can afford no ground to the appellants, nor the construction. which has extended the provisions of that treaty to the case of escheat; for the question
here is not between the alien 'and the state, but between
aliens and other individual claimants. The words of the sixth.
articlc of the' treaty of 1783 are the same as those in the
preliminary. treaty of 1782. "There shall'be no future confiscations made, or "future piosecutions commenced against
any person or persons by reason of the part which he or they
Inay have taken in the present war."
Conceding that escheat may be comprised under confiscation ; -adecision between individuals claiming under no act
of force imputable'to the state, cannot possibly be considered under that term.
Nor will her case be aided by the following words, of that
a.ticle: to wit'" nor shall any, person on that account (the
part which he or they may have taken: in the-presentwar) suf-

JANUARY TERM 1830.

253

[Shanks etal. vs. Dupont et al.]

fer'any future loss or damage either in person, liberty, or property." The decision of the'state court gives the most liberal
extension possible to this provision of the treaty, since it declares that Mrs Shanks never was precluded by any act of hers
from claiming this property. It never entered into the minds
of that court, that the very innocent act of niarrying a British
officer, was to be tortured into "taking a part in the present
war;" nor that following that officer to England and residing there under coverture, was to be imputed to her a.cause
.of forfeiture.
I consider it very important to a clear view of this ques-.
tion, that its constituents or several members should be
viewed separately.
The state court has not-pr.etended to impugn the forceof
the treaty'of 1794, or denied the obligatioh to concede every
right that can be fairly and legally asserted under'it,; but has
only adjudged-that the case of the appellants-is not one which
on legal grounds of construction can be brought within its
provision.
The words of the -treaty are : "it is agreed that British
subjects who now hold-lands in the territories of the United
States, and American citizens' who now hold lands iithe.
dominions of his majesty," shall' con'tinue to hold and transmit to their heirs, & .
The decision of the state court which we are now reviewing, presents two propositions:
1. That Mrs Shanks was in the year 178.2,. when the descerit was cast, and continued to'be in 179f; when the treaty
was ratified, a citizen of Soutl Carolina.
2. That she-was not a-British subject in the sense of the
treaty.
As to the first of these two propqsitions,'I consider it as
altogether set at rest by the decision itself; it is established
by paramount authority ; and this court 'can no more say that
it is not the law of South Carolina, than they could deny the
validit)r of-a statute of the state passed in 1780, declaring
that to be her character, and those her privileges.
The only question, therefore, that this'court can-pass upon
is, whether, being recognized under that-character, and pos-

254

-SUPREME COURT;
[Shanks et at. vs. Dupont et al.]

sessin'g those rights, she is still a British subject within the
provisions of the treaty.
It is no sufficient answer to this question, that it cannot
be denied that Mrs. Shanks was a British subject. She was
so in common with the whole American people. The argument therefore proves too much, if it.proves any thing; since
it'leads to the absurdity of supposing that Great Britain was
stipulating for the .protection of her enemies, and imposing
on us an obligation in favour of our. own citizens.
It also blends and confounds the national character
of
those, to separate and distinguish whom was the leading
object of thetreaty of 1783.
It cannot be questioned that the treaty of 17.83 must have
left Mrs Shanks a British subject, or the treaty of 1794 cannot aid her offslling. And the idea of British subject under
the latter treaty,'will be best explained by reference to its
meaning in that of 1783. The two treaties are in par materia.
The provisions of the third article show that persons who
come within the description of .Peopleof the United States,
were distinguished from subjects of. Great Britain. That
article stipulates for a right in the. people of the United
States to resort to the gulph of St tawrence for fishing; a
stipulation wholly nugatory, if not distinguishable from subjocts of Great Britain.
The fifth article is more explicit in the distinction. It
first contains a provision in favour of real British subjects,
then .one in favour of persons resident in districts ih'possession of his majesty's arms; and then stipulate§ that personsof.an.! other description shall have- liberty to goto and remain twelve months in the United States -to adjust their
affairs. These latter must have included tim loyalists who
had beep banished or in any way subjected to punishment,
who are explicitly distinguished" from" real British subjects;
and thus classed, in order to avoid the question towhoni their
allegi-ance was due, or rather, because, by the same treaty,
the king having .renounced all claim to their allegiance,
could no longer distinguish them as British subjects.
Can those any longer be denominated British subjects

JANUARY TERM 1830.

.255

[Shanks et al. vs..Dupont et al.]

whose allegiance the king of Great Britain has solemnly renounced 9
I know of no test more solemn or satisfactory than the
liability to the charge of treason ; not by reason of temporary
allegiance, for that is gone with change of domicil; were
those who could claim the benefit of the king's renunciation.
to the colonies, subject to. any other than temporary allegiance, while commorant in (izeat Britain!. I say they were
not. Their right to inherit is not a sufficient test of that
liability as to other nations, for that ight results from a different principle, the exemption of a British subject from
being disfrahchised, while-free from crime.
Was Mrs Shanks an individual to whose allegiance the
king had renounced his claim 9
The commencement of the revolution found us all indeed
professing allegiance to the British crown, but distributed
into separate communities,; altogether independent of each
other, and each exercising within its own limits .sovereign
powers, legislative, execlitive and judicial. We were dependent it is -true upon the crown of Great*Britain, but as
to all the world beside, foreign and independent. It lies
then at the basis of our.revolution, that when we threw off
our allegiance to Great Britain, every member of each body
politic stood in the relation of subject to no other po0 rthan
the community of which he then constituted a rhember.
Those who owed allegiance to-the king, as of his province
of South Carolina, thenceforward owed allegiance to South
Cgrolina. The courts of this country all consider this transfer of allegiance as resulting from the declaration of inde-,
pendence ; the British from its recognition by'the-treaty of
peace. But as to its effect, the British courts concur in our
view of it. For, in the case of Thomas vs. Acklam, 2 B. &
C.229, the language of the British court- is.this: "a declaration that a stat e.shall be free, sovereigwvand independent,
is a declaration that the pople composing that state shall

no longer be considered as the subjects of that sovereign by
whom the declaration is made."
From the previous relations of the colonies -and-mother
couniry, it is obviotis that.the declaration of independence

2563

SlPkEME .COURT.
tShanks et a. vs. Dupont et a.1j

-

must'have fouhd many persons resident in the, country besides those whose allegiince was marked by the unequivocal
cirdumstanae of birth;' many native born British subjects
voluntarily adhered to the Americans, -and many foreigners
had by settlement, pursuits tr principles, devoted themselves
to her cause.
. .Whatever questions may have. arisen, as to the national
character or allegiance of these; as to the case under review,
which is that of a native born citizen of South Carolina,
there would be no doubt. And the courts of that state have
put it. beyond a doubt, that -the.revolution transferrbd her
ll6giancie ,to that state.
-Whoever will weigh the words "real British subjects,"
used in the fifth article,-and consider-the context, can come
to.but bne conclusion : to wit, that it niust mean British subjerts to whose allegiance the states make no -claim. "Es-.
tates that have been confiscated belonging to real .British'
subjects" are the words. 'Now it is notorious, thatlthoug,
generally speaking, the . objects- of. those confiscations were
those to whose allegiance the states laid claim, yet in many.
instances the'estates of British subjects resident in England
or this country, or elsewhere, were confiscated, because they
"were-British subjects, on the .charge of adhering to.the.enemy. But if the- right bf election had ever been- contemplated, why should the tdrm real have been inserted. The
loyalists were British subjec.ts, and had given the most signal
proofs of their election to *remain such. -What possible
meaning can be attached- to the term real, unless it raised
adistin'tion to their prejudice I And historically, we know
that Great' Britain acknowledged their merits by making
large provisions for their indemnification'; 'because for, them
there was -no provision madd for restoring their prbperty.
It has beenargued that theBritishcourts, in construing
the treaty of peace, hhye recognised this right of election,
,and the case of Thomas vs. Acklain, -before cited, is supposed
to'establish it. ..
But a very little attention to that case-will
proie the contrary. It is in fact the converse of the present
ease. Mrs 'Thomas was the daughter of Mr Ludlow, an'
American citizen born before the revolution, dnd was born

JANUARY TERM 1830.

257

[Shanks et al.
vs. Dupont at al.]

in America long after the separation. So that her alien
character was unquestionable, unless protected by the statute of Geo. II. explaining those of Anre and Edward. The
decision of the court of king's bench is, that to bring her,'self within the provisions of the statute, her father must be
shown "at her birth to have been both a native born and a
subject of Great Britain ; that by fhe treaty of peace, the
.ling had renounced all claim to his allegiance, and his subsequent residence in America proved his acceptance of ihat,
renunciation.
But when did South Carolina renounce the allegianceof.
'MrsShanks '. We have the evidence of the states having
acquired it ;..when did she relinquish it!. Or. if it be placed
on the footing of an ordinary contract, when did South
Carolina agree to the dissolutioh of this contract '. Or when
did she withdraw her protectiop, and thus dissolve the right
to claim obddience or subjection '
-It.js true,'the treaty of 1794 drops the word real, and stipulates generally for British subjects and American citizens;
construing the two treaties as 'instruments in pari materia.
This circumstance is of little consequence; and however we
construe it, the argument holds equally good, that the treaty
could. have been only meant to aid those who needed its aid,
not those who were entitled under our own laws to every
right which the treaty meant to secure; that is, those
whose alien character'prevented their holdinglands,, unless
aided by some-treaty or statute., Mrs Shanks wds not of this
character or description ; her right at all times to inherit has
b.een recognized by,.paramount authority.. But it is contended, that it was at her election whether to avail herself
of her birthright as a citizen of the state, or her birthright
as a subject of Great Britain.
To'this there may be several answers given. And first, the
admission of this right would make her caie no.better.under
the construction* of the tretaty ; for, having no 'eed of its
protection, as-has been authentically recognized by the state
decision, it cannot be supposed that she was an object contemplated by the 'treaty; she' was not a British subject in
VIOL.

III.-2 H

.258

5 SUPILEME COURT.
-[Shanks,et al.vs. Dupont et al.]

the sense of those treaties, especially if the two treaties be
construed on the principle of instruments in pari materia.
Secondly, if she had the right of election, at what time
did she exercise itO for.she cannbt claim under her election,
and against her election. If. she exercised it'
prior to her
father's 'death, then- was she 'an alien at. his death, and
could not take even a right of entry by descent, as has
been distinctly recognized in Hunter vs. Fairfax, 7 Cranch,"
619, and I think in. some other cases. She then had nothing for' the treaty to at upon.'
But if. her election was not complete ,until subsequent to
her father's'death, then it is clearly'settled; that taking the
,oath of allegiance to. a foreign sovereign prodthces no forfeiture, and she. still had no need'of a treaty to secure *her'
rights'to land previously descended to her.': If'the facts be
resorted to, and the court is 6alled.upon to 'fix the period.of'
her transit, it would- be obliged to confine itself to the act
of her marrying against her allegiance. 'It is the only free
-act o .,her life stated upon the 'record,'for. from thence she
-continued sub potestate viri; and if she or her descendants.
-ywere now interested in maintaining"'her original allegiance,
we shauld'hear it con'itended, and be compelled to -admit,'
that lib subsequent act.of lir, life could bd imputed to ler
.b6cause of ber coverture; and even her marriage was probably during ier infancy..
fBt
lastlyjI deny this right. of election altoietheri as existing in South Carol'ina, more especially at that time..
I had this question submitted 'to rpe 6h my.circuit some
years since, and I.then leaned.in favour' of this right of election. But more mature reflection has satisfied me, that I
thengave too' much weight to natural, law and the suggestions of-reasdn'and justice; ina case which ought to be dis-'
posed of upon the principles of political and positive liw,
and the la~w of nations.
That a government cannot be too liberal, in extending to
individuals th& right.of using their talents and seeking their
fortunes wherever their'judgments may lead tiem, I readily"
agree. There:ig no limit short of it.s own security, to which

JANUARY TERM. 1830.
[Shanks et W!.vs. Dupont et al.)

a wise and beneficent government would restrict, its liber-.
ality on this subject. But the. questiori now to be decided
is not one of expediency, but
is of a very different feature ; it.
of right. ' It is, -to what extent may the powers of government be lawfully exercised in restraining individual voliti6d
on the subjectof allegiance; and what are th6 rights of the
individual when unaffected by positive legislation,
As the common law of Great Britain is the law -ofSouth
Carolina, it would here perhaps be tufficicnt to statethat
the common law altogether denies" the right of putting off
allegiance. -British subjects are per-mitted, when not-prohibited bY statute (as is the case with regard. to her citizens),
to seek their fortunes where theyplease, but -alays subject
to their natural -allegiance.. And although it is fot regarded
"as-a criine to'swear allegiance, to a foreign state, yet theiigovernment stands uncommitted in the subject of the embirrassments in which a state of 'war betwben the governments

of their-'iatural and that of .their "adopted.allegiaiee.may'
involve the individual. On this-subjectthe British government, acts as circumstances mnay dictate to her policy. That
policy is generally liberal ; and as war is the calling-of many
of her subjects, she has not been rigorous in punishing them
even when found with arms in their handi, where *therehas
been no desertion, and no proclamation ofrecall. The right
however to withdraw from their natural allegiance is universally denied by;the -common law.'
.It
is true that, without any act of her own, Mrs 'Shanks
found-herself equally amenable to both governments Under
the application of this Common. law, principle. But from
this only one consequence followed, which is, that.so far as
related to'rights to be claimed, or acquired, or duties to be
imposed under the laws of either government, she was liable
to become the'victim of the .will or injustice of either.
-

-

If we were called upon to settle the - claims of -the two

governments to her allegiance, upon the general principlesr
applicable to allegiance even as recognized by the contending. governments, we should be obliged- to decide that the
superior claim was in South -Carolina.- For, although before
"-the. revolution a subordinate state, yet it possessed every

260

SUPREME COURT.
rShanks et al. vs.Dupont et al.]

attribute of a distinct state; and upon principles of national
law, the members of a state or political entity continue
members of the state notwithstanding a change of government. The relations between the body politic and its members continue the same. The individual member aid the
national fdmily remain the same, and every member which
made up the body, continues in the eye of other nations in
his originaj relation to that body. Thus we gee that the
American government is at this day claiming indemnity of
France for the acts of those who had expelled the reigning
family from the throne, and occupied their place.
But it is obvious, that although the common law be the
law of South Carolina, and its prineiplcs are hostile to the
right of putting off our national allegiance; the constitution
and legislative acts of South Carolina, when amerting her
independence, must be looked into to determine whether
she may not then have modified the rigour of the common
law, and substituted principles of greater liberality.
South Carolina became. virtually independent on the 4th
of June 1775. The association adopted 'by her provincial
congress on that day, constituted her in effect an independent body politic; and if in.international affairs, the fact of
exercising power be the evidence of legally possessing it,
there was no want of facts to support the inferenice there;'
for officers were deposed, and at one time the most influential men in the state -were banished under the powers
assumed and exercised under that association. It required
the indiscriminate subscription- and acquiescence of all the
inhabitants of the province, under pain of banishment.
Neither of the constitutions adopted in 1776 or 1778 coritains any-definition of allegiance, or designation of the individuals-who wereoheld bound in allegiance to the- state; but
the legislative acts passed under those constitutions,.will
sufficiently shdw the received opinion on which the government acted in its legislation upon this subject.
Neither the ordinance for establishing an oath of abjuration and allegiance, passed February 13,'1777, nor the act

of March 28, 1778, entitled "an act to oblige every tree
male inhabitant of this state, above a certain age, to give

JANUARY TERM 1830. "
(Shanks et al. vs. DupoUt et al.]

assurance of fidelity and'allegiance to the same,".hoId& out
any idea of the right of election. The first requires the
oath to be taken by any obe to whom it is tendered, and the
last requires it to be taken by every male inhabitant above
sixteep,'under pain of perpetual.bariishment.
The preamble to the' latter~act indeed admits that protection and allegiance are reciprocal; but the whole course of
its legislation shows that the legislature understands the:
right of,election to belong to the state alone, and an election
to withdraw allegiance from the state, as a crime in the individual. The eleventh, or penal clause, is very explicit on.
this subject. It runs thus': "that if anypersdn:refusingor
'neglecting-to take the oath prescribed by this act, and withdrawing from this. satei shall return to the same, then he
shall be adjudged guilty of treason against thi" state, and
shall, upon conviction thereof, suffer death as a traitor."
Now, therefore, where there is no allegiance, there can be
no treason.
Since, then, the common law of England was the law of
allegiance- and of descents in South Carolina, when this descent was cast-upon the mother, and since remained unalterid by any positive act of legislation of; the only'power
then possessing the right to legislate on.the subje.ct; it follows that the representatives of Mrs Shanks can derive no
benefit from,her election; unless the right to, elect is inherent and unalienable in its nature, and remains above the
legislative control of 'society, notwithstanding the social
compact.
All this doctrine I deny. .I have "already observed that
,governments cannot b4e too liberal in extending-the right.to
individuals; butas to iti being unalienable, or unaffected by
the social compa6t, I consider it to be no more so than the
"right to hold, devise, or inherit the lands or acquisitions of
an individual. The right to enjoy, transmit, and inherit the.
-fruits of our own labour, or of that of our ancestorg, stands
on- the same footing with the right to employ our industry
wherever-'it can' be best employed; and the obligation to
.obey the laws of the community. on the subject of-the right
-to emigrate,'is as clearly to be inferred from the reason and

SUPREME COURT.
"[Shanks et al. vs. Dupont et al.]

nature of things, as the obligation to use or exercise any
other of our rights, powers, or faculties, in subordination to
the public good. There is not a writer who treats upon the
subject, who does not, qualify the exercise of the right to
emigrate, much more that of putting off or changing our al-,
legiance, with so many exceptions as to time and circumstances, as plainly to show that it cannot be considered as an
unalienable or even perfect right. A state of war, want of
inhabitants, indispensable- talents, trafilsfer of knowledge and
wealth to a rival, and various other grounds, are assigned by
writers on public law, upon which'a nation may .lawfully and
reasonably limit and restrict the exercise of individual volition in emigrating or putting off our allegiance. All this
*shows, that whenever an individual proposes to remove, a
question of right or .bligation arises between himself-and
the community, which must be decided on in some mode.
.And what other inode is there but a reference to the positive
legislation or received principles of the society itself'. It is
therefore a subject for municipal regulaion ; and the security
of the individual lies in exerting his influence to obtain -laws
which will neither expose the commdnhity unz.c sonably on
the one hand, nor restrain on. indlvidual. unjustly bn thbi
-other.
Nor have we any thing to complain of in this view of the
subject. It is a popular and flattering theory, that the only '
legitimate origin of government is in compact, and the exercise of individual will. That this is not practically true, is
obvious fiom history; for, excepting the state of Massachusetts, and the United States, there is.not perhaps on record,
an instance .of a government puroly originating in compact.
And even here, probably,. not more than one third of those
subjected t6 the government had a voice in the contract.
Women, and children under an age arbitrarily assumed, are
necessarily excluded from the right of assent, and yet arbitrarily subjected. If the moral government of our maker
and our parents is to be deduced from gratuit6us benefits
bestowed on-us, why may not the government that-has shielded our infancy claim -from us a debt of gratitude to be repaid after manhood 1' 4n the course of nature, man his need

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Shanks et al.
vs. Dupont et al.l

of protection and improvement long before he is able to reciprocate these benefits. These are purchased by the, submission and services of our parents; why thei. should not
those to whom we must be indebted for adiantages so.indispensable to the development of our powers, be.permitted, to
a certain extent, to birfd us apprentice to the community from
which they have been and are to be procured 1.
If it be answered that this power ought not to.be extended unreasonably, or -beyond the period when we are capable
of acting for ourselves; the answer is obvious,-by what rule
is the limit to be prescribed, unless by positive.municipal
regulation '.
It is of importance here, that it should be held in view
that we are considering political, -not moral obligations. The
latter are universal and immutable, but the former must frequently vary according to political circumstances. It is the
doctrine of the American court, that the issue of the revolutionary war.settled the p-oint, that the American states were
free and independent on the 4th of July 1776. On that day,
Mrs Shanks was found under allegiance to the state of South
Carolina, as a natural born citizen to a community, one of
whose fundamental principles was that natural allegiance
was unalienable; and this principle was at no time relaxed
by that state, by any express provision, while it retained the
undivided control over the rigl'ts and liabilities of its citizens.
But ii is argued that this lady died- long after the right
of passing laws*of naturalization was ceded to the Uniited

States, and the United States have'in a series of laws admitted foreigners to the right of citizenship, and imposed an

oath-which contains an express renunciation of natural and
every other kind of allegiance. And so of South Carolina;
she had previously passed laws to the same effect.. In

1704'she passed a law "for making aliens free of this prdvince," which remained in force until 1784, when it was
siupeiseded by the act of the 26th of -March, "to confer
the right of citizenship on aliens.;" 'towhich succeeded that
of the 22d of March 1786,.entitled "an act to confer certain

9.64.

SUPREME COURT.
[Shanks et al. vs. Dupont et al.]

rights and privileges on aliens, and-for repealing the act
therein mentioned."
In both the latter acts the uath 6f allegiance is required
tobe taken ; and that oath, as prescribed by the act of the.
28th of March 1778, contains an abjuration of allegiance to
any other power,'and particularly, to the king of Great Britian.
These legislative acts, it cannot be denied, do see to hold
out the doctrine of the right to change our allegiance, and,
do'ftirnish ground for insisting, that it is absurd in agovern-"
ment to deny to -its own citizens, the right of doing. that
which "it encourages to be done by -the citizens of other
states.
Most certainly it is to be regretted that congress has not
long since passed some law upon the. subject, containinp a
liberal extension of this right to individuals, and prescribing
the form and circumstances under whi6h it is to be exercised, and by which the act of expatriation shall be authenticated. A want of liberality in legislating 'on this subject
might involve the government in inconsistency; but'the question here is whether, in absence of such declaration of the
public will or opinion,, courts of justice are at liberty to
fasten upon the government, by inference, a doctrine negatived by the common law, and which is in its nature subject
to so many modifications.
I.think not. Great 'Britain exercises the same power either
by the king's patent.or by legislative eactment; and permanent laws exist in that country which extend the rights of
naturalization to men by classes, or by'geneial' description.:'
Yet this implication has never been fast~ned upon.her; nor
is the doctrine of her common law. less sternly adhered 'to;
or less frequently applied, even to the utmost extent of the
punishing power of her courts of justice. In practice she
moderates its severities; but .in'this it is will and policythat
gaides her, not any relaxation of the restriction upon individual rights.
There is indeed one prominent, difficulty hanging over
this argument which it is impossible to remove. If it proves

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Shanks et al. vs. Dupont et al.]

any thing, it proves too much; since the infe-rence, if resulting at all, must extend to put off one's allegiance, as well to
adopted citizens as to natural born citizens ; and to all times
and all circumstances. What then is that obligation, that
allegiance worth, which may be changed an hundred times a
day '. or by passing over from one army to another, perhaps
in the day of battle '. The truth is, it leave7 but a shadow
of a tie to society, and converts that which is considered as
one of the most sacred and solemn obligations that can be
entered into, although confirmed by the sanctity of an oath,
into nothing but an illusory ground of confidence between
individuals and their governments.
The idea brings man back to a state. of nature; at liberty
to herd with whom he pleases, and connected with society
only by the caprice of the moment.
Upon.the whole Iam of opinion, that Mrs Shanks continued, as she was born, a citizen of South Carolina; and of
course unprotected by the British treaty.
I have taken a general view of -the subject, although it
does not appear precisely whether or not Mrs Shanks had
attained an age sufficiently mature to make an election be-'
fore marriage, or was ever discovert during her life, so as-to
be able to elect after marriage. I have reasoned on the hypothesis most favourable to her, admitting that she had made
an election in authentic form. -Nor have I confined myself
to authority; since I wished, as far as I was instrumental, to
have this question settled on principle. But it does appear
to me, that in the case of Coxe vs. M'Ilvaine, this court
has decided against the right of election most expressly; for
-if ever the exercise of will or choice might be inferred from
evidence, it is hardly possible for a stronger case to be made
out than that which is presented by the facts in that case.
With regard to state decisions upon this question, I would
remark, that it is one so exclusively of state cognizance, that
the courts of the respective states must be held to be best
acquainted with their own law upon it. Though every other
state in the union, therefore, should have decided differently
from the state of South Carolina, their decisions could only
determine their own respective law.upon this subject, .and
VOL. III.-2 I

SUPREME COURT.
[Shanks et al. vs. Dupont et al.]

could not weaken that of 9outh Carolina witl regard to her
own law of allegiance and descents; It does appear singular, that we are here called upon to overrulea decision of the
courts of South Carolina, on a point on which they ought to
be best informed, and to decide an individual tobe a British
subject, to whose allegiance ihe British couirts.have solemnly
decided the king has no claim. On this point the case of
Ludlow, in Thomas vs. Acklam, is the case of Mrs Shanks;
it is impossible to distinguish them. The state of South
Carolina acknowledges her right to all the-benefits of alle-.
giance; the king of Great Britain disavows all claim to her
allegiance; and yet we are called upon to declare her a British subject.
I have not had opportunity for examining the decisions of all
the states upon this subject, but I doubt not they will generally be found to concur in principle with the court of South
Carolina, except so far as they depend dpon local law. This
is certainly the case in Massachusetts. The decision in the
case of Palmer vs. Downer, does, it is true, admit the right
imperof the election ; but besides that that case is very
fectly, and I may add unauthentically repbrted, it is most
certainly.overruled in the subsequent case of Martin vs.
Woods.
Before I quit the cause it may be proper to notice a passage
in a book recently pobiished in this country, and which has
been purchased and distributed under an act of congress ; I
.mean Gordon's Digest. There is no knowing what degree
of authority it may be pupposed to acquire by this act of
patronage; but if there is any weight in the argument in
favour of expatriation drawn from the acts of congress on
that subject, I presume the argument will at some future
time be applied to the doctrines contained in this book. If
so, it was rather an unhappy measure to patronise it; since
we find "in it a multitude of nisi prius decisions, obiter
dicta, and certainly sime striking, misapp-ehensions, ranged
on the same shelf with acts of congress. On the particular
subject now under consideration, art. 1649, we find the following sentence: "Citizens of the United States have a
right to expatriate themselves in time of .war as well as in

JANUARY TERM 1830.

267

[Shanks et a!. vs. Dupont et a.]

time of peace, until'restrained by congress;"' and for this
doctrine the author quotes Talbot vs.. Jansen,; S Dall. and
the case of the Santissima Trinidada, 7 Wheat. 348; in both
which cases the author has obviously mistaken the argument
of counsel for the opinioh of the courit; for the court in bothcases expressly wave expressi.g an opinion; as not called for
by the case, since if conceded, the facts were not sufficient Lo
sustain the'defence.
The author also quotes a case from I Peters's C. R. which
directly negatives the doctrine, and a case from 4 Hall's Law
Journal, 462, which must have been quoted to'sustain the
'opposite doctrine. -It is the case of the United States vs.
Williams, in which the chief justice of the United States presided, and in.which the right of.election is expressly nega-.
.tived,, and the individual-who pleaded expatriation is convicted and punished.

This cause came on .to.be heard on the transcrirt of the.
record from the supreme'couirt'of. appeals'in'law and equity,
in and for the state of' South Cirolina, and was argued by.
counsel; on consideration whereof, it. is considered and declared by this court that Afin Shanks, the mother of thd ori,
ginal defendants, was at the time of her death a British
subject, within the true intent and meaning of the ninth
article of the treaty of amity, commerce and navigation
made between his Britannic majesty and the United States
of America on the 19th of November 1794i and. that the
said original defendants, as her heirs and British subjects,
are capable to take, and did take by descent from her the
moiety of the land 'in the p-roceedings 'menitioned, and are
entitled to the proceeds of the. sale thereof, now in the registry of thq circuit court of equity, as in the said proceedings
mentioned. It is therefore considered and adjudged by this
court that there is error in the decree of the said court of
appeals inequity, of the state of South Carolina, in affirming
the deree of the. circuit court, in said proceedings mention'ed, whereby it was 'ordered and decreed, that-.the money
arising from the sale, of the land.in .question, theretofore. re-

268

SUPREME COURT.
[Shanks et al. vs. Dupont et al.]

served subject to the order of the court, be paid over to the
petitioners, as the only heirs who are capable of takingthe
same. And it is further ordered and adjudged by this court,
that for this cause the decree of the circuit court aforesaid,
and of thu court of appeals aforesaid be, and each of them
is hereby reversed. And it is further ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the cause be remanded to the said court
of appeals, witlh directions that a decree be entered therein,
that the said moiety of the said lroceeds of the said sale be
paid over to the original defendants (the present plaintiffs
in error)' as their right, and that such further proceedings
be had therein as to justice and equity may in the ptemises
appertain.

