292

SUPREME COURT.

S~muE. D. HARms,

DENM.
PLAXTU F Ii ERROR W. JA= ES

Twenty-three cases of silk were imported from Canton in the ship Rob Roy into
the port of Boston, consigned-to George D'Wolf and John Smith. After the
arrival of he vessel with the merchandize on board, the collector caused an
inspector of the customs to be placed'on board. Soon afterwardS, 'and
prior to the entry 'of the merchandize, and prior to the palyment or any security for the ,payment of the duties thereon, the merchandize was attached by
the deputysheriff of the county, in due form of law, as the property of'G.
D'Wolf and J. Smith, b, iirtue of several writs of attachment issued from the
court of common pleas for the county-oif Suffolk, at the stit of creditors of-0.
D'Wolf and Smith. These attachments were so made prior to the inspector's
being sent on board the vessel. At the time of the attachment, the sheriff
offered to give security for the payment of the duties on the 'merehandize.
which the collecto; declined accepting. The' merchandize was sent to the
custom-house stores by the inspector, and several days after, the custom house
store keeper gave to the deputy iheriff an,agreement signed by him, reciting
the receipt of the merchandize from the inspector; and stating, ,,I hold the
said merchandize to the order of James Dennte, deputy sheriff." The marshal
of the United Stites afterwards attached, took, and sold the merchandize under
writs and process, in favour of the United States, against George D'Wolf;
which writs were founded on.duty bonds, due and unpaid, for a larger amount
than the value of the merchandize, given before by D'Wolfand Smith; ,who, be-,
fore the importation'of the merchandizd, were indebted to the-United States on
various bonds for duties, besides those on which the suits were instituted.
Held, that the attachments issued cut of the court of common pleas of the
county of.Suffolk, did not affect the rights -of the United States to hold the
merchandize until the payment of theduties upon them; and that the, merchandize was not liable to any attachment by an officer of the state of Masqachbsetts, for debts due to other creditors of George D'Wolf and'John Smith.
It hasoften been decided in this court, that itis not necessary that it shalrappear,
in terms, upon the record, that the question was presented in the statr'court,
whether the case was within the purview of the twenty-fifth section of the'
judicial act of 1789, to give jurisdictign.to this court in a case removed from
a state court. It is sufficient, if, from the facts stated, such a question must
have arisen, and the judgment of the state courts would not have been what it
Is, if there had notbeen a misconstruction pf some act oT congress, &c. &c. or
a decision against the validity of the right, title, privilege or exemption set up
under it. [301].
The United States have no general lien on merchandize, the property of the importer, for duties due by him upon other importations. The only effect.of the
first provision in the sixty-second section of the act of 1799, ch. 128, is that
the delinquent debtor is deniel at the custom house any further credit for duties until hisunsatisfied bonds are paid. He is compellable to pay the duties in
cash, and upon such payment he is entitled to the delivery of the goods im-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
EHarris vs. Dennie.]
ported. The manifcst intention of the remaining clause in the sectlonis to
compel the original consignee'o enter the goods im13orted.byhim. [802].
Noperson'but the owner or origlnal consignee, or'in his absbnce or sickness, hi
agent or factor, Is entitled to enter the goods .atthe eustbmhouse, or give bpnd
for the duties; or to pay tho'duties (seqt. 36 and 62)' Uponwthe entry the original invoices are to.be produced and sworn to; and the wholeobjects of the act
would be defeated by allowing a mere stranger to make" the eptry,-or take.the
oath prescribed on theuentry. [804]
The United States having a liea on goods imported for the payment of the duties
accruing on them, and which have not-been secured'by bond; and being entitled to the custddv of then from the time of their arrival in port until the
duties are paid or secured; any pttachment by a state officer is an interfe-'
rence with -such lien and right to custody; and, being repugnant to the laws
of the United States, is yoid. [805]
The acknowledgement by the custom house' store keeper, that he holds goods,
u[on which tlhe duties have not been secured or paid, subject to an attachment
Issued out of-a state court at the suit of a creditor'of the importer, was a plain
departure from his duty, and is not authorised by the law of the United States,
and cannot be admitted to vary the rights of ihe parties.' 305]

WRIT .of error"to the. supreme judicial court of Massachusetts, for the counties of Suffolk and Nantuciet.
In the court of common pleas of the county of Suffolk,
Massachusetts, James Dennie, the defendant in erroi, a deputy
sheriff of that county, undera precept issued by the authority
of the state, attached twenty-three cases of silks imported in
the brig Rob Roy, from Canton, for a debt due. by the im.orters and ownei's of the'goods, George D'Wolf and'Jame4
Smith. Soon after the arrival of the vessel, the collector of the
portcaused an inspector of the customs to be placed on board.
The attachment was made before the. entry of'the merchandi'e, ahd payment made or security given for the paymedt
of the duties thereon, and bef6re an inspector was put on
board the vessel. At the time of the attachment, the plainitiff
offered to give the collector security for the payment of the
duties to-the United States, which he declined to accept.
About seventeen days after the attachment, the merchandize being' in the custom house stores, under the 'following
agreement, to wit, "District of Boston and Charleston, port
* of Boston, August 29th 1826. I certify that there has been
received into store, from on board the brigRob Roy, Whereof
is master, from Canton, the following mer
chandize, to wit, twenty three cases silks, A. 0. 1 to. 23,
-

lodged by D. Rhodes, Jun. inspector, under whose care the

SUPREME COURT.
[Hards vi. Dennie.]

vessel was unladen.. B. H. Scott, public store-keeper. I
hold thq above :described twenty-thiee-cases silks subject to
the, order of Sames Dennie) Esq. deputy sheriff. B. H.
.Scott;" the defendant, being -the marslhal of the United
States for the district of Ma.sachusetts, attahed. and. took
the same merchapdize, by virtue ot several writs in favour of
the United States against D'Wolf, duly issued from the district court of the United States. These, writs were founded
upon bonds for duties given by DYWolf anid 'Sitb, amountiig to a sum much larger than the value of the merchandize,'
•which. duties were due and unpaid 'whqn the merchandize
arrived.
Thd deputy sheriff, James Dennie, .brought an action -of
trover against the marshal for the goods; and the judgmnent
of the supreme judicial court of the state, to which the case
was removed by, Writ of error from the inferior court, was ii
favbur o~f the original plainti-ff; and th6 defendant-prosecuted
this writ of error.
d
e
The following erbirs.were assigned in the supreme judicial court of Maaachnsetts - that, according to the true con.strifctioki of the-sevefal acts of the congress..6f.the United.
States, imposing dutibs, o i certain goods; wares and..merchandize Jimported' iat6 th United States from foreign ports,
and also of the act-of said congress made and passed-on the
2d day of March 1799, entitled "an act to 'reZulatd the col-,
lection of dtities on imposts and tonnage :" it is contended,"
I. Thiat upon the arrival of the said merchandize ii question at the port of Bostofi. and Charleston, and prior to the
'supposed attachment thereof by the said Dennie; a debt immediately accrued IO'the Tnited States -for the amoffnt -of
the duties thereon; and *thecollector for said port had there-.
fore alegal lien onthe.said mer6handize for the debt aforesaid; and donsequently they were not thea subject to the said
Dennie's attachment'aforesaid.
2. -That the offer of the said Dennie, at the time of makinghis said atta'chment, to give to the said collector -secuFity
for the payment of the duties on said merchanidize, did not
in point of law give validity to fhe said attachment; ibnasniuch as the said collector vas not at that time, it being prior
to any entry of the nerchandize at the custom housd, au-

JANUARY TERM 1830.

295

[Harris vs. Dennie.]

tdorised by law to receive security from the said Dennie, or
any other p~rson or persons whomsoever, for payment of the
duties aforesaid.
3.. That after*the said inerchandize was placed in h6 custon house store, as is found by the special verdict, anrd from
that period, to the time when they arie stated to have been
attaihed in behalf of the United States by the said Harris,
as marshal of said dist-ict, the legal lien of the United States
constantly remained, fwith. them; and thatthe certificate of
B .H. Scott; the store-keeper, which appears in the said
verdict, cap haye .had no effect to discharge or in any degree
jtoimpair the force of the said lien,
4. That by the provisions contained .in
the sixty-second
section*.of the aforesaid act -ofMarch 2, 1799, the goods in
question, the s me having been imported by and consigned
to George. D'Wolf-and. John Smith, as by said verdict is
found, are in point-of law to be considered'ars their property,
so far as to' be holden ,liable for the payment of all -the debts
then.due from them to the United States for duties on merchandize heretofore imported by them into the said port of
"Boston -and Charleston.
It Was'also ii. this court contended, that the defendant*in
error'had no property, either.absolute or special, nor possesiton, nor the right of possession in the goods, *which were •
the object of the supposed trover and conversion in the
declaration mentioned.
The case was argued by MrBerrien, attorney general, and
Mr*.unlap, district attorney of the United States for the
district of Massachusetts, for the plaintiff in .error; and.by
Mr Weboter, for the defendant'.
For the plaintiff in error, Mr Dunlap stated, that the position contended for in the-state court was, that under the revenu6 law the government of the United States has a lien on
goods imported, not only for the dtuties* accruing on that
importation, but also for the payment of'all debts due from
the consignees arising from-antededent importations. - This
quebtion, he admitted, had since been disposed of against the
United States-. Conrad vs. The Atlantic Ihs. Com.,1 Peters,.

296

SUPREME COURT'
. [Harris vs.'.Dennie.]

.386. Itis-supposed that the great questionin the cause now
before the court is, whether goods imported can, before entry
at the custom house, and while under the lien of the government, in possession of the cifstom house officers, be legally
attached by virtue'of process from a state court. Such'an
attachment, it is claimed, ii 6ot only void by the laws of the
United States, but also by the laws of the state of Massachusetts; and therefore the defendant in error did not by the process obtain any property or right of possession in the goods,
which could enable'him to maintain an action of trover.
The laws of the United'States provide, that goods imported shall, until entered at the custom house, be taken into the
possession of the officers of the government, arid after- a certain time be deposited in the custom hcrise stores; and afterwards, a further time having expired, if they have, not
been entered by .or for the importer; they are to be gold according to the thirty-sixth and fifty-sixth sections of-the act
of March 3, 1799.
An attachment, at the suit of any creditor of the importer,
upon goods thus situated, would interfere with ana destroy
the possession and lien of the government,' thus secured by'
'law. Such an attachment, thus interfering with rights thus
-given, is the exercise. of " an authority under a' state,"
which ': is repugnant to the laws of the United States." The
exercise of such an authority is in opposition to the exempt'ion
claimed to exist in favour 'of those goods from sucirproces ,
and is a defence for the marshal of the United States to this
action of trover by the deputy sheriff. This case is therefore one properly within the action of the ninety-fifth section of the judiciary law; and is well brought before .this
court to reverse the judgment of the- supreme judicial couit
of Massachusetts.
The attachment from the state court is void, as well byhe
laws and adjudged cases of Massachusetts, as by the laws of
the United States. A statute of the 'state, if it interfered
with a law of the general government in reference- to subjects within -its legitimate operation, would be void; but no
such law, in reference to the proceedings and claims of the
defendant in error, is to be found. To constitute a legal

JANUARY TERM 1830.
EHards vs. Dennie.]

attachment of goods, they must be taken within the actual
or constructive possession of the officer; and when this cannot be done, on account of the existence of prior liens, or
from any other -cause, no attachment can be valid. The
decisions in- the state. of Massachusetts fully sustain this
position. Phillips, vs.-Badger, 11 Mass. 247. Bedlam vs
Tucker, et al. IPick. 389. Watson vs, "Todd et al. 5"Mass.
Rep. 971.
In Pierce vs. Jackson, 6 Mass. Rep. 242, the court say
thqt when goods are attached, they must be seized: under
ekecution within thirty days, or the lien of. the judgment is
gone.. Thegoods in the custom house stores could nbt havebeen sold under any. process.. Cited.'Vinton vs'Bradfiord,.
15 Mass. 114..' Lane ,. Jackson, 5 Mass. 1571 deo ids that
the officer must have the actual possession and custody of
the goods. Cited alio, 'Odiorne vs. Polley, 2 New .H-mp.
I~ep. 66. A-s6o, 2 New-.-Hdmp. 4elo.317. - Holbrook. vs.
Blake, 5. Greenleaf's Rep. 371. 6' Conn.Rep. 356. -1
Shower, 169. .Vin. Ab. Distress, E. 2. H, 42, I. 52.
The effect of the acknowledgement bf the store keeper
could not be to vest a property in the good§ in the deputy
sheriff. It was unauthorized; and the store keeper had
nothing to dispose of. He was the agent of the United
States, to protect and preserve the property while in-the
public stores; and he could not divest himself of these rel.'tions, and become the bailee of the sheriff.
If the sheriff had no right to make -the attachment, he
acquired by it either a general or a special property, which
is necessary in order to maintAin trover; and in fact he never
bad the. ictual possession of the goods. The only title he
asserts is, as an officer by virtue, of the attachment; and if
that is adjudged illegal and void, the foundation of his action fails. 2 Saund-ers's Rep. 47. 7 T. R, 9.
-

Mr Webster for the defendant contended; that this court
has no jurisdiction of the case, according to the provisions
of the judiciary law.
It is not required that it should appear, inform, that an
act of congress has been misconstrued; if it has been subVOL. III.-2 N

SUPREME COURT.
vs. Dennie.]
[]Har'.

stantially the fact, it is sufficient to give the writ of error
to the highest state tribunal,. But it does -not appear in any
part of this record, that sul3h was the proceeding in the supreme judicial'court of Massachusetts.The question originally.raised in this case was, whether
the United States had a general.lien on goods imported for
debts due to them by the importer; and that question has,
since this action was brought, been decided in the negative
in Conrad vs. the Atlantic Insurance Company. The- only
question remaining in this case was, whether the. goods were
liable to attachmerrt,.and this was a question properly for the
decision of the state courts. The United States!claimed to attach and hold the goods for the debts due to them by D'Wolf
and Smith, and the other creditors of those persons deniedthis claim, and proceeded by an attachment. The' United
States stood in no other relatidns and with no other xights
before the state court than the other creditors. -In thestate
court, and upon the state decisions-, the attachment for the
creditors was considered valid.. This is an answer -to the
#rgument, that such is not. the law of Massachusetts. This
decision'does not therefore bing into.question the construction of any act of congress.
Mr Berrien, attorney general,-ifi ieply, argued.: that there
was enough in ihe recoi ,toshowthat a qtiestion of the apr
plication of a statute o"the United Sates -was decided. by
the supreme judicial court-of Ma~sachusetts ;and thig would
sustain the jurisdiction, although it may nothaVe been theonly question in the case.. 2 Wheat. 363. Tl.Wheat. 304.
This is an action of trover against an officer of the United
States, the marshal, for taking goods out of the hands of an
alleged bailee, for a debt -die to the United States; and the
question is, was there then an existing lien in favour of the
United States under the sixty-second section of the duty dct!
The construction of'-this statute :was thus brought into
question, by the inquiry whether there was a conversion.by
the marshal. He says, that his proceedings were under ihe
authority of the law; and it was therefore essential .that the
state court should decide upon the law, And construe the law.

JANUARY TERM 1830
[Harrs'vs. Dennie.].

2. In an action .of. trover and conversion, the: plaintiff
must show property, and a right to retain it.
The go.ods were in the 'po session of the, cust6m "house,
and subject to duties vhich -were unpaid. ..Itwas necessa ry
that the court should decide, that.goods, b fore the payment
of the duties, can be takeh out of the possessioni of the'custom house by the process of •state courts. This question 'is
to be. decided by a reference to; the laws of the. United
States.
, Sich an exercise of power- Woula be fnconsistent 'with the
provisi6ns of thela'ws:of' the' United States.
Thepositioh which is asserted bythe, plaintiff in error,.
is.
that'goods so situated aire exempt.from such'prOcess.
TEhe plaintiff in-the state court Contended;.that they could
'b6taken under the auyhority of the state -ofWMssachusetts'
" ,dnd tis was the assertion of a claim of authority undbr a
state, against the Jaws'of the United States.
'Upon these grounds iCis imanifest that the cobstruction of
thelaws .of the United States immediately entered into the
Sqestion before the state court.' 'It must appearo4h" this court,
1. .That .the goods *wre liable t6 'be attached. *2,That
there is niothing in the laws of the. Unifd Sptes -which prevents this. 3.- That the United States. had no lien on tle
god. - All these points must-be'decide4d ih fhyouf of the.
plaintiff below, before-it "can be held that the-inrshaf was'
guilty of'a-conversion.
Mr Justice STORE' delivered the opinion: 'ofthe. court;
supreme
This is a writ of error to the judgment of :th.'
judicial court of 'the'state of Massachusetts.
The-original action was trover,'brougbt by' the defendani
-inerror against-the plaintiff indrror, for twenty-three 'cases
.ofsilk, which'hd,.begn. attiched .byDrenhiej as dep'uty sherift of the :county of, Sufflk, and afterwards attached by
Harris, asinmarshal':df the district. of -Massachusetts.- The
dause was tried upon the general issue, and a special verdict
found, upony which the state court rendered-jtIdgment in
favour of the original plaintiff.
The specii' verdict was as follows.. Thejury: find that

SUPREME COURT.
[Harris vs. Dennie.J

the merchandize described in the declaration was brought
in a vessel of the United States into the port of Boston, in
the collection district of Boston and Charleston in Massachusetts, from a foreign port, prior to the commencement of
this action., That the said merchandize came consigned to
George D Wolf and John Smith, as was evidenced by the
manifest of the cargo of the said vessel at the time of the importation. That soon after the arrival of the said vessel with
the merchandize on board, as aforesaid, the collector of the
said port caused an inspector- of the custom house to be
placed on board thereof, in conformity with the requirements
of law in such cases. That soon after the arrival of the
said vessel, and prior to' the entry of the said merchandize
with the collector, and prior to the payment or any security
for the payment-of the duties thereupon, the same were attached in due form of 'law as'the property of the said George
D'Wolf and John, Smith, b), virtue of several writs of attachment issued from the court of' common pleas for the said
county of Suffolk, in favour of Andrew Blanchard and others;
the said attachment having -been made by the plaintiff in his'
capacity of a deputy of the sheriff of the aforesaid county of
Suffolk, prior to the inspector's being put on board, as aforer
sdid. That at the time of the said attachment, the said sheriff offered to give to said collector security for the payment
of the duties upon the said merchandize, which the said collector declined to accept. That about seventeen days subsequently to the time, of the attachment, the said merchandize being in the custom house stores, under the following
agreement, viz: "District of Boston and Charleston, port of
•BostQn, August 29th 1826.. I certifythaf thete has been received in store, from on board the brig "Rob'Roy, whereof
is master, from Canton, the following merchandize,
viz: twenty-three cases of silk, A. 0. 1 to 23, lodged by D.
Rhodes, Jun. inspector, and under whose care the. vessel
was unladen. (Signed) B. H. Scott, public store-keeper. I
hold the above twenty-three cases of silks subject to order
of James Dennie, deputy sheriff. (Signed) B. H. Scott." The
'defendant (Harris). being marshal, &c. attached the said
merchandize, and took the same, by virtue of several writs to

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Haurbf. Dennie.]

him directed, in favour of the United States, against the s
D'Wolf; which writs were duly issued from the.districtcour,
"ofthe UnitebdStates for the district bf Massachusetts ' which
tits'zdircfiounddon bondsforduties theretofore given by
the:suid D'Woif.and'Smith, and which bonds were then due
an&unpaid, being forta large sum of money; -That the said
D2Wolf and, Smith, at the time of. the said-importation of the
.metchandize aforesaid,.were jointly and severally indebted
to the -United States O'-Various other bonds for duties, besides tho -on which. ihe - writs ' foresaid were institutedt.
which said first- mentioned bonds were also 'then due and
unsatisfied; and that the bonds for duties above referred to,
and upon which the attachment by'the said marshal was
made amounted to a much larger sum tban the value of'the
merch'andize thus attached. But -whether or not, &c. &c.
in the commonform of special Verdicts.
As this case comes-from a state court, under the twentyfifth-hection of the-Judiciary act.,of 1789i ch, 20, it isnecebsary to consider, whether this court:,can entertain ahy.jurisdiction, therebf, 'consirtently -with. the- terms of.that enactmerit. That section, among-other things, enacts that a final
judgment of the highest state court may be revised, where is'
drawn in question the -validity bf a'statute of, 6r an authority.exercised under, any state on the ground of their being
repugnant. to.the constitution, treaties; or laws-of the United
Statesr,.and thedecision is in- favour -of their validity; or
where isdrawu, in, uestion the construction of any clause-df
the'constitution, or ofo a treaty, or statute of or commission
held under.the ,United-State's, and the decision isagainst the
title, right, privilege or exemptionrspecially set up, or- claim-.
ed by either party; ubder such clause of the said constitution,-trbaty, statute-or conlmi'sion. .'The objection is, that this court 'has not jurisdiction of
this case, becaue-it' does not appear- upon the record t'hat
-any question -within the purview.of the twenty-fifth section
arose inthe state court-upidn the decisioh on the special.'vr'
dict. "But it has been often decided in this court, that it.
ii
notneeessary-thpt it sliould adppear, in terms, upod the record,
that any.such question was made; .Itissufficient, if from the

-

302

,SUPREME COURT.
Ll-arris vs. Denule.]

facts stated such a question must have arisen, and the judg-.
ment of the state courtwould iot have been what it is, ifthere
had not been a m'isconstruction.'of- some act of congress,
&c. &c. or a decision against the validity of the right, title,
privilege or exemption set up under it. 4 Wheat. 311. 12
Wheat. 117. 2 Peters's Rep. 245, 380i 409.
. In the present case it is contended, that the Vnifed States,
by virtue of the sixty-second section .ofthe Revenue Collection Act of 1799, ch. 128, had a lien on the presentmerchandie for all debts. antece'dently -due on custom house- bonds
by D'Wolf and Smith, and that,,consequently the attachment of the marshal overreached that of the private creditcrs, and that, the state-court haVe decid6d against such lien.
If there be no such lien, still it is contended, that'under the
provisiofisof -theRevenue Collection Act of- 1799, oh. 128,
the nirchandize wag not liable to attgchmenit at the suit of
any private.creditorsmundet the circumstics; and that-the
state court in.giving judgment for the plaintiff,, must have
*overruled that defence, and misconstrued the act.
The-question as to the licn of the United. States for durties antocedently'due, was certainly presented by the special
verdict.',But we .are all of opinion, that the .decision-of the
siaft court, disallowing such a lien, was certainly correct.
The sixty-secoid section of the act of 1799, .ch. 12% afier
proyiding for. the manner of paying duties,, and. of giving
bonds for duties, and theterms of credit, to be allowed therefor, g6s on.tbprovide; "that no-person whose bond-has been,
received, either, as principal or surety, for the payment of
duties, or-for whom any bond has been given byan 6geht,
fact*r or-other person, in pursuance-of the provisions hereihcontained, ,and which, bond may - be due and uinsatisfied,
shall be allowed a future 'redit for duties, until such bond
be'fully paid or discharged." The"only .effect of,this provision. 'is, tha the del.inquent debtor is denied at-the -custom
house any futur- redit for ditties, until his,' unsatisfied
bondsare paid. -He is compellable to pay -theduties in dash
and upon such payment.he is entitled to the delivery.of the
goods -imported. -There-is not'the slightest suggestion in the
clause; --thdt-the, United States shall have any lien on such

JANUARY-TERM 1880.
[Harris ms..Dennie.3

goods for any duties due on' any other goods, for which the
imp~rter has given bonds, and for which he is a delinquent.
It was at once perceived by congress, that the salutaryeitect
of this provision, denying credit upon duties, would be defeated by artifices and evasions, and the substitution of new
--'ers or consignees after the arrival of the goods in port,
and before the entry thereof at the custom house. To repress such contrivances,, the next.succeeding clause of the
-act provides, "that to prevent frauds arising from collusiv6
transfers, it is hereby declared that allt goods,.&c. imported
into the United States, shall,for the purposes of this act, be
deemed and held to be the property of the persons to whom
the-.said goods, &c. may be consigned, any sale, transfek or
assignment-prior to the entry and payment, or secpring .he
payment, .of.the duties on the said goods, &c. adid the- payment of all bonds then due and unsatisfied by the said consignee, to the contrary notwithstanding." The manifest
intent of this clause was to compel the original consignee to
enter .the goods; and if he was a delinquent, to compel him
to pay his prior bonds, or to relinquish all credit for the
duties accruing upon the goods so imported and. consigned
to him. It does not purport to create any 'lien .upon such,
goods for any, duties due upon other goods; but merely
ascertains who shall be deemed the.owner, for the purpost of
entering the goods and securing the duties. The state court,,
therefore, did not, so far as this quegtion is concern ed,.misconstrue the act of congress, or deny any'right of the United
States existing under it.'
The other point is one of far more importance; and; inour
opinion, deserves a serious consideratiou. If, consistently
with the laws of the United States, goods in the predicgmeat of' the present were not liable to any attachment by
a state officer,, it is very clear that the present -suit could
not be sustained, and. that .judgment ought to have been
given upon the special verdict in favou' of the original defendant. And in our opinion these goods were not liable to
such aniattachment. In examining the Revenue Collection
Act of 1799, ch. 128, -it will be found, that numerQus provisions have been solicitously introduced, in order to. prevent

SUPREME COURT.
[Harris vs.-Dennie.]

any unlivery, or removal of any goods imported from any
foreign port in any vessel arriving in the United States, until
after a permit shall have been obtained from the proper
officer of the customs for that purpose. These provisions
not only apply to vessels which have already arrived in port,
but to those which are within four leagues of the coast of
the United States. The sections of the act, from the twentyseventh to the fifty-eighth, are in a great measure addressed
to this subject. From the moment of their arrival in port,
the goods are, in legal contemplation, in the custody of the
United States; and every proceeding which interferes with,
or obstructs or controls that custody, is a. virtual violation
of ihe provisions 'of the act. Now, an attachment of such
go6ds by a state officer, presupposesa right.to take the possession and custody of those goods, and to make such possession and custody exclusive. If the officer attaches upon
mesne process, he has a.right to hold the possession to.answer the exigency of that process. If he attaches upon an
execution, he is bound to sell or.may sell the goods within a
limited period, and thus virtually displace the custody of
the United States. The act of congress recognizes no such
authority, and admits of no such exerbise.of right.
No person but the owner or coxisignee, or, in his absence or
sickness, his agent or factor in his name, is entitled 'to enter
the goods at the custom house, or give bond for the duties or
pay the duties. (Sect. 36, 62.) Upon the entry the original
invoices are to he produced and, sworn to ; and the .whole
objects of the act would be defeated. by allowing a mete
stranger to make the entry, or take the oath prescribed on
the entry. The sheriff is in no just or legal sense the owner
or consignee; (and he must, to have the benefit of the .act,be the original consignee;) or the agent, or factor of-the
owner or consignee.' He is a mere stranger, acting:in inviturn.. He cannot then enter the goods,-or claim a-right.to
pay the duties, or procure a permit-to unlade them; for such
permit is allowed in favour only of the party making the
entry, and paying or giving bond for the duties. (Sect. 49,
50.) If within the number of days allowed by'law for unlading the cargo the duties are not paid or secured, the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Harris vs. Dennis.]

goods are required to be .placed in. the' governmenr.tores,
under the custody and possession of the governmenit officers.
Ai'l at the expiration of nine months, the goods so stored
are to be sold, if the duties thereon have not been previously paid or secured. (Sect. 56.)
It is plain that these proceedings are at war with ihe.no.
tion that any state officer can, in the interval, have any possession or right to control the dispos.ition of these goods; and
the United States have no where recogniied or provided for
a concurrent possession or custody by any such officer. In
short, the United States having a lien on the goods for the
payment of the duties accruing thereon, and bbing entitled
to a virtual ctstody of them fror the time of their arrival in
port until the duties are paid or secured, any attachment by
a state officer is an interference with such lien and right of
custody'; and being repugniant to the laws of the United
States, is void.
It has been suggested, that the certificate of the store
keeper, declaring that he held the silks.subject to the order of.
the attaching officer, might vary the application of this doc-.
trine. But such an agreement was a plain departure from
the duty of the store keeper; and was unauthorized by the
laws of the United States. It cannot, then, be admitted to
vary the rights of the parties. 'See fifty-sixth section of the
act of 1799, ch. 128.
This 'view of the subject reniders it. wholly unnece.sary to
consider the point, so elaborately argued at the bar, whether
by the laws of Massachusetts an. attachment ivould lie. in
suth a case. If it would, the preseht attachment would not
because it involves an interference with
be helped'thereby ;.
the regulations prescribed by congress on the subject oft
imported goods.
Upon the whole,, it is the unanimous opinion of the court,
that the judgment of the state court ought to be reversed;
and that a mandate issue to that court, with directions to
enter judgment upon' the special verdict, in favour of the
original defendant.
VOL. IIL.-2 0

206

SUPREME COUILTm
[Harris vs. Dennie.

,This cause, came Dn to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the supreme judicial court of the commonwealth
of Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel; on consideration'whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that the goods
in the special verdict inentioned, were not by the laws of the
United States, under the circumstances mentioned in the
.said verdict, liable to be attached by the said Dennie upon
the process in the said.verdict mentioned ; but that the said
attachment. sb. made by him as aforesaid, was repugnant to
the laws' of the United States, and .therefore utterly void.
It is therefore considered and adjudged -by this court, that
.the judgment 'of the said supreme judicial.court ofMassachu,setts rendered upon the saidverdict be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that a-mandate issue to thai court with
"directionsto enter a judgment upon the said verdict in favour
ofthe original defendant, Samuel'D. Harris; and that such
farther proceedings be had in said cause as to law and justice may appertain,

