222

SUPREME COURT.

THE PATAPSCO INSURANCE CoMPANY, PZM

sMn
IN ERROR VS.

JOHN COULTER, DzEF.ENDANT IN EROR.

Insurance on profits on board the ship Mary "at and from Philadelphia to Gibraltar
and a port in tke Mediterranean, not higher up than Marseilles, and from thence
to Sonsonate in Guatemala, Pacific Ocean, with liberty of Guayaquil, the insurance to begin from the loading of the goods at Philadelphia, and to continue
until the goods were safely landed at the said ports. The insurance, five
thousand dollars, declared to be -n profits, warranted to -beAmerican property,
to be proved at Philadelphia only, valued at twenty thousand dollars." The
vessel proceedba with a cargo of flour to Gibraltar, where the same was to be
sold, and the proceeds invested at Marseilles in dry goods, to be sent from
thence to Sonsonate or Guayaquil. While the vessel lay at Gibraltar, before the
discharge of her cargo, she and her cargo wire totally lost by fire. The evidence on the trial went to show, that with-proper diligence on the part of the
captain and crew, the fire might have been extinguished, and the vessel and
argb saved. Soon after the fire commenced, the captain called upon the crew
to leave the ship, under a6t apprehenaion from a small quantity of gunpowder on
board; and after they letlher she was- boarded by otherpersons, who endeavoured without success to extinguish the flames, having, as was alleged, arrived
too late; Evidence was given, intended to show that the fire originated from
the carelessness of the captain. The circuit court refused to instruct the jury
that if the fire proceeded,fromh the carelessness or negligence of the captain,
the insured could not recover. That court also refused to instruct the jury
that if the fire originated from accident, or without any want of due care on
the part of the master and crew, and if the'jury should find that by reasonabld
and proper exertions the vessel and cargo might have been preqerved by them,
which they omitted, the assured could not recover. That court also refused
to i.' truct the jury that the assured, having offered no evidence that the sales
of the flour at Gibraltar would have yielded a profit, they were not entitled
to recover. Held, that there was n drror in these instructions.
Whatis barratry. Its definition. [230]
The British courts have adopted the safe and legal rule, in deciding that wher6,the
policy covers the risk of barratry, and fire is the proximate cause of the loss,
they will not sustain the defence that negligence was the remote cause, and hold
the assurers liable for the loss. [236]
The rule that .a loss, the proximate cause of which is a peril insured against, isa
loss within the policy, although the remote cause may be negligence of the
master or mariners, has been affirmed in ieveral successive cases in the English
courts. [237]
It seems difficult to perceive, if profit be a mere excrescence of the principal, as some judges have said, or identified with it, as has been said by others,
why the loss of the cargo should, not "carry with it the loss-.of the profits:
Proof that profits would have arisen on. the voyage, in order ta recover on a
policy on profits, is not required if the cargo has been lost. [241]

-JANUARY. TERM 1830.

223

Tle'Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Coulter.].

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Maryland.
'This action was instituted in the circuit court on a policy.
of insurance, executed by the plaintiffs in erior, on profits.upon goods on. board theship Nancy, "at and-from Philadelphia to Gibraltar and a port in the Mediterranean, n1t higher
Up than Marseilles, and at and from thence to Sonsonate,
in the province of Guatemala, Pacific ocepn, with the liberty
of Guayaquil: beginning the adventure upon the said goods,
from the loading thereof on board the said vessel at Philadelphia, and continuing- the same until the said goods shall
be safely landed at the ports aforesaid."
The insurance was in the amount of five thousand dollars,
with this clause:, "this insuiance is declared to be on profits, warranted to be American property, to be proved at.
Philadelphia only,-valued at twenty thousarid dollars."
The vessel, with a cargo of flour; proceeded from- Philadelphia to 'Gibraltar, at which place the.cargo was destined
to be sold, and the proceeds to be invested at Marseilles in
the purchase of various specified dry goods. These dry goods
were to besent by the vessel from Marseilles to Sonsonate
or Guayaquil... While the vessel lay at Gibraltar, before: the
Oischarge of her cargo, she and her cargo were totally lost
by fire.- Evidence was taken -at Philadelphia, as to the cir
cu'mstances of the destruction 6f the property, and one wit-.
ness ,(Mr'Fulford) was examined in additioh as to those,
circumstances-at the trial. The testimony ofthis witnesswent
to show that with proper diligence on the part of the captain
and crew, the fire might have been extinguished and the vessel and cargo saved ; and the evidence obtained ait Philadelphia.was not inconsistent with that conclusion. It appeared
from Mr Fulford's testimony, that., soon after the.fire commenced, the captain calle.d upon the crew to teave the ship,
exclaiming that there was gunpowder aboard, and that.the
'vessel would-be blown. up; and the captain and crew did
then leave the vessel.

It was in evidence that there-was a

small quantity of gunpowder on board, but-that that ought
not to have deterred exertions to save the property; an

officer and a'number of men from two British frigates hay-

SUPREME" COURT.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Coulter.]

ing in fact, a considerable time after the vessel was deserted
by her captain and crew, boarded her and used all efforts to
put out the flames, but unsuccessfully, in consequenice oftheir
reaching the scene so late. There was evidence to infer
that the fire originated from the carelessness of the captain
with a candle used by him for sealing letters, or from negligence of the crew.
Evidence was had at Philadelphia, of Mr Clark, concerning the markets at Sonsoriate ar:d Guayaquil,' for the specified
articles at Marseilles. His testimony tended to show that
these articles would have been sold with profit at Guayaquil,
at the time the vessel might have reached there.. -Itwas
proved, that at Gibraltar the flour would have sold-without
los, .but without profit.
-'Ihe'defendants prayed the court to direct the jury,
1. That -ifthey should believe from the evidence, -that the
fire, which occasioned the destruction of the ship and her.
cargo, proceeded fronj the carelessness or-negligence of the
captain of the ship, or any of her crew the plaintiff was not
entitled to recover.
2.- That if' they should -believe that theofire which occasioned the ship's destruction originated from accident, and
without any.want of due care and attention on the.part of
the. captain -or crew, and if they should further find that the
captain and crew, after the discovery of the-fire, might, by.
reasonable and proper exertions, have prevented the spreading of the same, and have preservel the said vessel and
cargo from destruction; and that they omitted-to use said exertions, then the plaintiff was .not entitled to recover.
:3. That the., plaintiffs had offered no evidence that the
sales of the flour at Gibraltar would have yielded the plaintiff :a profit, and'that therefore they were not entitled to
recover.
These prayers the cout refused ; but as to the second of
them directed the jury -as follows: "that the 'plaintiff is
entitled to recover, unless they should be of opinion, from
the evidenge in the cause, that after the vessel 'was discovered
to be on'fire, the master and crew might have eXtiuguished

JANUARY TERM I830.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Coulter.]

the same, and preserved the vessel and cargo. -Themaster
was bound to-extinguish the fire, if practicable. If hestood
aloof, without making any exertion to extinguish the fire,
and suffered the vessel to be-destroyed, it would have -afforded evidence of such gross negligence as to amount to
barratry."
'To the refasal of the'priayers, and opinion and direction
of the court, the 'defendants, now. plaintiffs in error, ex.cepted.
Mr Mayer, for the.paintiffs in error, contended.
1. That they are not answerable, under the policy, for any
loss by fire, if occasionea by the negtigence of the captain
and crew of the Nancy ; that the risk of fire bears on the'
insurers as other risks in the policy; that the assured being.
bound tdo'the exercise of reasonable skill' and care in his
agenis to guard the property insured against.the perils stated
in the policy, under the implied warranty of seaworthiness,
the underwriters ought not to suffer loss from a fire which
the .captain or crew might' with ordinary care have prevented taking place."
2.'That if it*was the duty of the captain and crew to prevent the. fire,, it was equally their duty. to extinguish it; and
.the consequences of their negligence in this particular ought
not to fall upon the insurers ; abd that even the gross negligence of the captain and crew, in regard to a duty of this
kind, is a mere vonfeazance,.and is: not to be considered
barratry; that the remissness of the captain, in this case
particularly, is not so to be considered, because, howeVer
weak his conduct may have been, he was acted upon by inordinate fears .only, *and by no motives of interest or -any
views of unauthorised discretion or wilful delinquency..
3. That the profits - here, insured were incident to the
cargo shipped at Philadelphia, and not to any'property thdt
might be substituted for it, though acquired with the, pro.
"ceeds of the original cargo; that the coniemplated adventure from Marseilles to Guatimiala was therefore foreign tothe insurance. That even in a valued policy qn profits, 9videne must be given of some profit likely to result,.and that
VOL. III.-2 D

SUPREME. COURT.
[Tho Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Coulter.]

without such evidence the insurance has no subject to operate upon; that the' flour being destined to be sold at Gibraltar, and not affording there a profit, as was proved; there
is in effect no insurable interest Whatsoever shown in the
-defendant Coulter; and that- he cannot,- therefore recover
under.a valued policy on profits.
Underwriters are not liable for any loss arising from
gross negligence or want of skill of the captain and crew.
The' object of insurance is to guard against extraordinary
perils. They necessarily beset every mercantile adventurer,
and there-must be.skill and'diligence to meet them. It is
a part of the business of the voyage that those who are on
board ofthe .vessel shall be gn the alert, and if they a, enotj
the underwriters are exonerated. . Marsh. on Ins. 156, 487,
690. *5Mass. 1. '..8 Mass. 321, 436.- 13 Johns. 180, 187.
Phillips on Ins. -225. If the first- causq of the accident
which produces the destruction of the vessel was not within
the policy, its consequences d9 not attach to the policy.
There is nothing in the termis of the -policy against fire -which
exempts them from the, bperation of these principles.
'If the caltain and crew omitted reasonable exertions to
extinguish a fire which had occurred from accident, the insurers are not liable; gross negligence in both is not barratry; *and if they stood' aloof without making proper and sufficient efforts to'prevent the ravages of the fire, the court
shonld have left these facts to the jury, from which they could
have inferred for the assurers. Abbot on Ship. 128, notd.
8 Cranch, 49. 5 Mass. 1. 8 Mass. 531. Marsh. on Ins. -515.
Phill. on Ins. 230. 8 East, 133.
The cargo would have produced no profit, and the plaintiff offered no proof :that profits would have been obtained.
on the cargo sent.fron-Philadelphia; -and the insurance attached only to the cargo shipped there. Sorie proAts must
be- proved before the underwriteri are answerabje,' as -this
cannot be left to inference. 6 East, S15. -42 East, 124.
16 East, 218. The p61icy is a contract of indemnity for
actual injury or loss; and the principles of the law of insurance are against'wagering policies. '2 Mass..I. 12.Wheat.
288. Phill. 69. It is admitted that a party .may cover a

JANUARY TERM 1830,

227

[The Patapsco Insurance Cotpany vs:Coulter.]

series of adventures, and expected profits on them; but if he
has omitted tor do this'in explicit terms, he must sustain the
toss himself. The terms of this policy are-not broad enough
to cover all the'pfqfits anticipatedl and which are claimed
from the underwriters, the plaintiffs in error. Marsh. on Ins.
323. Phill. 166. 2 Mass. 409. 4Camp. 294. 12-East,
283. 1 Taunt. 463. 12 Wheat. 283. 6 Mss. 197. 2 Mass..
420.
Mr Wirt, for the defendant in error, argued, that the
facts of the case made out a-loss by accident or misfortune,
and of ijnnocence on the part of the master; and ihat from
the situation of the vessel, part of the crew being absent,
and the fact of there being powder.under -the cabin .floor
when the fire broke out, no other efforts than those which
were-made to save her would have been prudent, or proper;
all the skill that could be expected was employed. According,
to the established principles of the law of,insurance, there
must be'ignorance so gross as to amount to unseaworthiness
-to excuse-the insurer, but not otherwise.
It would be the introduction of a new principle in the law
of insurance, if the want of more than common care and
usual skill wouild discharge the underwriters. Every, loss
would be traced to such a proximate cause. A ship ig left
in a storm would proof that setting another sail would have
placed her beyond the peril excuse the underwriters ?. The
seaman.at the mast head, whose duty it is to look out for
land, as a coast is approached falls asleep, and the vesiel is'
lost; this, under the principle -claimed, would release the
assurers. The underwriters will undertake to ipquire whether the captaifi and crew should have resisted longer,. before they submitted in battle. Human infirmities are at the
risk of the insurers, as well as the perils of navigation.
The cases decided in England repudiate the doctrine
asserted by the plaintiff in error, and for the reasons -and
on the.principles no.w submitted to the court. 2 Barn. &
Ald. 72. 5 Barn.,& Aid. 17-1. 7 Barn. &-Creis. 217. 14
Com. Law Rep. 33. 7 Barn. & Cress. 794. 14 Com. Law
Rep. 129.

SUPREME COURT.
EThe Patapsco Insurance .Company vs. Coulter.]

Gross negligence is, upon adjudged casds, barratry; and
thus, if such should have occurred in this case, the underwriters would be liable: 2 Camp. 149. 8 East, 126. 11
Petersdorf, 268. 2 Phill. on Ins. 237. 2 Camp. 620. 1
Taunt. 227. 2 New Rep. 336. 4 Taunt. 226. "Peake, 212,
1 Camp. 123.:
The policy attached to the whole voyage, and was intended to cover the profits upon it, The interruption or breaking up of the voyage, preventing the earning of those profits;
and in whatever part of it the oecurrence took place, entitled
the assured to recover the amount of the policy. An insurance
on profits has been settled to be legal and proper. In the
American courts it is not necessary to prove what the profits
would have been, but in England the rule is otherwise.
Courts construe the policy liberally, to include all the objects and ifitentions of the parties, according to the nature
of the voyage. In this case, tha subject of insurance was
the profits on the whole voyage, and the cargo which was
taken an board at Philadelphia wag to furnish the means of
proceeding with the adventure. By its loss, the whole of
the profits were lost. Catlett vs. The Columbian. Insurance
Comp any, 12 Wheat. 383. Phill. on Ins. 319,29,70,46. 47.
Mr Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the Court:
This *as a case of insurance on profits on a voyage from
Philadelphia to Gibialtar, and a port in the- Mediterranean
not higher up than Marseilles, and at and from thence toSonsonate, in thb province of Guatemala, Pacific Ocean,
with the liberty of Guayaquil. The risks are those usually
inserted in policies, including fire, and barratry. The loss
alleged is fron fire alone.
The vdssel reached Gibraltar in safety, and while lying
there, took fireand was entirely consumedi together with her
cargo.
The evidence on the part of defendants below wentq, first,
to charge the master with having causedthe fire by his own
Carelessness; secondly, with having desisted, and restrained
the crew and others, from efforts which might have extinguished the fire, under apprehensions not very well founded,

JANUARY TERAi 1830.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Coulter.]

that it would communicate With powder, laden near to vhere
the fire originated. .It was also objected. to'the plaintiff's
right of recovery that he had given rio kind of evidence of
profits, or probable profits, from a sale at Gibraltar,
This difference furnishes the subject of. three bills ot exception. The first of which went to the refusal of thecourt
to instruct-the jury, that if they believed the fireproeeeded
from the negligence or carelessness of the captain, the plaih-.tiff b low was not entitled to recover.
The second, that if they b~lieved- the fire originated in
accident, without any want of due care and-attention in the.
captain .and crew, yet,. f after it had commencedthe captain and crew might with ordinary care-and exertion have
extinguished it, the plaintiff-below was not entitled' to re-'
cover.
The-first of these instructions was refused expressly. The
second was refused as prayed; and in its -stead the court instructed the jury, -that the-plaintiff -was entitled to recover,
uirless-they should be of opinion from the evidence;,thatafter the vessel was discovered -to be on firej the master and
crew might have extinguished it, and preserved the vessel and
cargo. That the master was bound to extinguish the fire, if
practicable; and" if he stood aloof without making any exertion. to extinguish it, and suffered the vessel to be destroyed,
it would have* afforded evidence of-suach gross. negligence
as would amount-to barratry.
As the plaintiff below is:in possession of the verdictt.is
immaterial 'to him if this.charge. Was more favourable to his
adversary than the-law admits. 'We have only to do with so
much of the case presented by these bills of exception, as
makes against the interest of.the insurers..
And as to. the refusal to instruct the jury' that." their ver-.
diet must be -for the insurers, if they believe tih less to have
proceeded from the carelessness or negligence of the captain," -it is'obvious, since barratry is insured against, that the
court must not be held to have affirmed that fire proceeding
from negli'ence was a -losswithin the policy, independently
of the risk of bartatry, .but that negligence wasno defence
where barratry was insured agaiast.
-

230,

SUPREME COURT.
EThe Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Coulter.]

It cannot be denied, that what. with adjudged cases and
elementary opinions, this doctrine has got into a great-deal
of confusion. Many attempts have been made to define the
term barratry,'in its marine sense ; .but when compared with
the ideas attached to the word, s derived from the most respectable souices, such definitions will too generally be
found deficient in precision or comprehensiveness; they heed
commentaries to apply or explain them. And it is remarkable, that the point in which all the definitions in the English or
American authorities agree; to wit, that fraud must be a con-,
stituent of the act of barratry; is that in which practically
all the difficulties arise. The question seems to be between
"dolus" and " culpa," whir.h of those two words best conveys
the sense of the law.
It cannot be denied that. the etymology of the word favours, the adoption of the former. The term barratry is
known to the common law- and Cowel's Interpreter. refers
its origin.to a Latin word, which would attach to it the idea
of meanness, selfishness, and knavery. Some of our English
books, following a French writer, (Pasquier sur Emerigon,)
-derive it from "barat," an old French-or Italian word,.which
they explain by "tromperie, fourbe, mensonge."
I should myself derive the word from the Spanish barate•ria, baratero, which'are rendered fraus, and fraudulentue. But it is worthy of particular notice, that writers on
maritime law of the first respectability (I think Emerigon,
gives six in number) in explainipg the marine sense -of the
word barratry, use the. French w6rd "prevariquez, . , which
can only be translated into "acting without due fidelity to
their owners." The best French dictionary we have renders
it.by" agir contre ies devoirs de son charge," acting contrary
to the duties of his undertakingi and "trahir la cause ou
l'interet des personnes qu'on est oblig6 de"defendre," 'to
betray the cause or interest of those whom we are .bouhd to
protect.
Nor. will it be found that the idea of the British codrts of
tbemeaning of fraud as appliedto bark'atryvaries perceptibly
from.this exposition. In the case of Moss vs. Byron, 6 T. R.
37'9'jye find the very words adopted. by one of 'the judges•;

JANUARY TERM .188o.
[The Patapsco Irusurance Company vs. Coulter.1

"if the captain acted contrary to.his duty to his owners," it
was barratry; and "if he did any act to increase the risk,"
it was bhrratry. And in the-case of Burk vs. The Royal Exchange Insurance Company, the court 'ay it down as the
law, that the term barratry is used. in the policies as applicable to the " wilful misconduct" of the master and mariners. And even in the case of Phyn vs. The Royal Insurance
Company, in which Laurence, Justice, wishes to resume or
explain his definition, in Moss vs. Byron, he concludes with

atoptifig the definition of Lee, C. J. in Stemmer vs. Brown,
in which he says, "barratry must be some breach of trust in
the master ex maleficlo," in which, I presume; nialeficium
must mean some wilful- and injurious act. And as this
case is given by the latest English compiler (11 Petersdorf,
269, Case 6) as the authority for the unqualified doctrine
-Cc that there must be fraud to constitute barratry, and the
definition of :C. J.Lee, just quoted, is given in his margin,
as comprising the substance of this case, We are furnished
with an apt opportunity of asceitaining the idea attached
in Great Britain to both the terms - fraud" and maleficium,
by referring to the case itself.
The defence of the underwriters there turned upon a deviation, and the question was whether it was a frauduleht
deviation. If a general.deviation, the undervriters were dischargpd ; but if a fraudulent deviation, (hen itwas barratry
and. a risk in the policy. 'The whole evidence in the cause
-in which the question of fraud was raised, was this: the
vesselwas bound from London to Jamaica, .but was driven
by.currents out of her .ouvse. Upon recovering hei reckoning, she was found to be between the Gr'and Canaries and
the Island .of Teneriffe. In this situation it was admitted
that her course was south west, instead of which the captain
bore up for the island- of Santa Cruz, whibh lay north west,
and in sight about thirty miles off, and came io anchor; for
the purpose, as is supposed in.
the argument, to get refresh-'
ments, or in some way for his own accommodation." The
jury found it*to be a simple -deviation without fraud, and the
court only decide that they cannot adjudge it a fraudulent
deviation in opposition to the finding ofthe jury. But it is

SUPREME COURT.
[the Patapsco Insu-auwe Company vs. Coulter.]

no where hinted that the jury might not have found if"otherwise, and their verdict have been sustained upon the evidence
in that cause.
On. the contrary, so far as fraud or maleficium may be
supposed to imply. adishonest or injurious. intention towards
the owner, the idea is negatived by a variety of cases. In
that of Earle vs. Rowcroft, 8 East, 126, it was admitted that
the captain unaffectedly acted with a view to promote the
owners' interest, and Would materially have promoted their
interest- had he esdaped detection. But he had deviated
from his instructions, and increased the risk by trading
with an enemy; and it was held 'to be barratry. The court
there say, it has been asked how is this act of the captain in
going into d'Elmina, in order to purchase the cargo for his
owners more cheaply and exp-edibously, a breach of trust.as
between him and them .1 Now I conceive that the trust reposed in a captain of a vessel obliges him to obey- the written instructions of his owiers, where they give any'; and
where 'the instructions are silent, he' is at all events .to do
nothing but what is consonant to the laws of the land,
whether with or without a view to their advantage.
"Here we see that an act "inconsistent with written instructions," and an act "not consonant to the laws Qf the
land," are brought within the description of fraud upon the
owners, as applied to the definition of barratry. From which
it would seem to result, that it is not confined to moral
fraud; or that the term is not well chosen ; or that practically,
in its application to this subject, culpa would better express
the idea thaui dolus.
The commercial regulations of maritime nations, both. of
ancient and modern times, are very various on the subject
of the liability of assurers for the acts of the master; and
it is not without much appearance of reason that Emerigon
observes, that the French ordinance has.put it upon the. just
medium.
"The regulations on this subject are contained
in the
twentysixth, twenty-seventh and twenty-eighth articles of
the fifth title.
By the twenty-sixth article, "all losses and damages hap-.

JANUARY TERM. 1830..

233

[The Patapsco InSurance Company vs. Ccultcr.]

pening at sea, by'tempest, shipwreck, running aground or
aboard of other ships, .changing the'course of the voyage or
of the ship, ejection, fire, taking, rifling, detention by princes,

declaratior of war, reprisals, and generally by all maritime
accidents, shall be at the risk of the insurers. By the twentyseventh, however, if the changing of the course, voyage, or
siip happens by the order of the insured, without the consent of the- insurers, they shall be discharged froth the risk ;
which' shall likewise take place in all other losses and damaes happening by the fault-of the insured;. nor shall the
insurers be'obliged to iestore the premium, if the time of
* tfeir bearing the risk be begun. Nor shall the insurers be
obliged to bear the losses and damages happening.to ships
and goods by the fault of the master and mariners,: except
that by the poliey they be engaged for the barratry of the
master.
It'is this last rule to which the observation of Emerigon is
particularly directed 1 and' although the British decisions do
not -adopt.the negative langtiage of the regulation without
limitation, they certainly come up to thepositive rule.which
it implies, whenever the case of the mister is considered a
fault with reference to his duty to his owner.
It has been remarked .by a British court, (Busk vs. The
Royal Ex. Ass. Company,!2 Barn. & Aid. S2,) that in France,negligence,' as well as wilful misconduct, is considered barratry ; and they give the authority of the commentator ol the
'ordinance-of Louis the Fourteenth, Valin, for the assertion.
But as the author is coitmenting upon the twenty-eighth article, I am inclined to consider the passage :as. only intimating
that negligefice is a fault within the words of the ordinance.
And the same court, in the same-cause, have certainly af'firmed the' same principle, in its.positive sense; that is, that
where an insurance is against batrratry, a loss arising frbm
fire originating in negligence shall be borne by the uhder.writers.
It would be a great relief to this court,-if ihere existed
such an uniformity in the decisions upon this subject, as to
place our decision upon adjudged cases. But it is not to be
questioned, that the English and American decisions are in
VOL. III.-2 E

234

SUPREME COURT.
[The Patapsco Insurance ' c.apany vs. Coulter.]

direct hostility with each other, as to a loss by fire arising
from negligence, where there is an insurance against barratry.
It must be repeated, that the general question where there
is no insurance against barratry need not here be considered. The judge was not bound to give an instruction, abstracted from the case. And the question, whether, where
the breach laid was loss by fire only, the plaintiff could
maintain his'action by giving in evidence a barratrous burning, did riot properly. occur. The point when properly stated
stands th-us: the plaintiff lays the breach by fire, and.the defendant, to repel his liability,, insists that the fire was produced by negligence of the master; the plaintiff replids that
negligence is no defence where the barratry is insured
against; the court maintains the doctrine of the plaintiff,
and adds, that negligence itself, when gross, is evidence
of barratry. And certainly' a master of a' vessel who sees
another engaged in the act of scuttling or firing'his ship,
and will not rise from his birth to prevent it, is prima facie
chargeable with bairatry. Although a mere misfeasance, it
is a breach of trust, a fault, an act of infidelity to his owners.
So if, in the height of a storm, the captain and crew turn
in without resort ng to the nautical -precautions of laying
the vessel to and otherwise preparing her to oiercome the
peril, it may awell be left to a jury to .determine if such conduct be not' barratrous.
The.truth is, that in the incidents to thiskind of contract,
misfeasance and nonfeasance often approach so hear to each
other in character and consequences, that it is not surprising
if courts of justice should incline to -the adoption of' rules
which would relieve them from the difficulty of-discriminft-ing, or the inconsistencies that might result from their efforts
to discriminate.
The case of Green vs. The Phoenix Insurance Company,
decided in New York, was certainly a very strong case tp
establish the doctrine that a loss by fire, proceeding from
negligence of the master and mariners, was not a loss within
the-policy, although barritry be one of the risks. It will,
however, be found, by looking into the reasons which govern-

JANUARY TERN! 1830.
(The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Coulter.]

ed the court in that - case, that its 'conclusions were drawn
partly from the too general expressions of an elementary
writer, and partly from analogy witi other decisions in Which
the expressions of the court, unless restricted -to thecases
before them, were.justly deemed authority for the decision
there rendered. The question was one of the first impression, and one on which the best constituted minds may well
have been led to 'contrary conclusions. It was however no
.unreasonable claim upon the profession made by Lawrence,
Justice, in the case of Phyn vs. The Royal Ex. Ass. Company, witl regard to his own doctrines in Moss vs. Byron,
"that what fell from him there must be taken in reference
to the. case then in judgment before the court.." Thus restricted doctrines will 6ften.-be found correct, which in a more.
general sense might yell be questioned. And in the case of
Voss and Graves vs. The Un. Ins. Company, and also in that
of Cleveland ivs, The same Company, relied upon in the
New York decision, the act of the master, for which the uri-.derwriters were held to be discharged, 'was in the first"
-instance sailing towards a blockaded port with intent to violate the blockade, and in "the second, leaving his register
behind him. . The first of these cases did not call for the
opinion-of Kent, Jtistice,-onthe subject of negligence.; the
second is exactly one 6f those cases in which a nonfeasance
becomes a misfeasance, and both relat- to the discharge of
a-duty unquestionably belonging to the insured, and the-master as his agent. Attempting a breaei of blockade was an
unwarrantable increase. of risk, which might or might not be
bhrratrous according to circumstances. And for a vessel to
leave her register behind in time of war, -affected her seaWorthiness as much as' leaving her compass or quadrant or
anchors at home at any time. So veglecting to take a pilot,
neglecting to' pay port duties, neglecting to obtain a clearance, fieglecting to comply with the-laws of any port which
the vessel has leave to-enter; tIlthese, although nonfeasances,
involve- misfeasanees, which discharge the underwriters, because they violate implied. duties incident ionavigating the
vessel, and prodrce a positive and definite increase of risk.
It was not until the year 1818,-that'the question was set-

. SUPREME COURT:
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Coulter.]

tied in the British courts, on the liability of the underwriters
for a loss like the present. In the Case of 'Busk v. The
Royal Exchange Assurance Company, the question is finally
and fully decided there, in direct hostility with the decision in
New York; and this court is now for'the first time called upon
to establish a rule for its own government in similar cases.
Losses by fire must happen either from the act of God,
from design, or from accident. If from design, and by
the captain and crew, it is barratry; 'if by any other person,
or by pure accident, it is clearly'a risk by fire, but from
the peculiar character of this risk, it is no easy matter to
,point out an uccident that may not be resolved into negligence. If by the falling of a candle, 'it may have. bednbecause due care was not bestowed upon securing it; and if
*from a spark from. the cambouse, it may have been from
neglect in.
not closing or constructing it; and if from a flue

.or-a stove, the samb reator may be assigned. It has already.
been shown, that gross negligence may be evidence of barratry, and when it js considered how' difficult it is to decide
*whire gross negligence ends, and ordinary .negligence be*gins, and to distinguish between pure accident and accident
from negligence, we cannot but think that the British courts
have adopted ihe'safe and legal rule, ifi
deciding, that-where
the policy covers the risk of barratry, and fire be the*proximate chuse,' they will not sustain the defence, that.negligence was the rem6te cause.
We think this rule also the mbst consistent with analogy
and mercantile understanding. It is Very justly observed in
the case of Busk vs. The Royal Exchange Assurance Company, that it is a strong argument against the objection there
raised for thefirst time, that in the great variety of cases
that have occurred upon marine policies, no such point had
ever been made. Arid I will add, it is not improbable from.
comparison of dates, that the defence maintained in the New
York decision, suggested that made inthe British courts.
The long. acquiescence may have had its origin in a general mercantile understanding, or perhaps in the doctrine of
Malines, whose book unites the recommendations of antiquity, good sense, and practical knowledge. The passage

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company v;s. Coulter.]

has been misquoted as to its place: it is found in page 155,
in these words : "barratrie of the master and mariners can
hardly be avoided, but by a provident care.to know ther, -or
at least the master of the ship. upon which the assurance is
made. And if he be a careful man, -the danger -of fire'
above mentioned will be the less for the ship; boys rhust
be looked unto every night and day. And.in this case let
us also consider the. assurers; for it has oftentimes happened,
that by a candle unadvisedly used by the boysor otherwise,
before the ships were. unladen, they have been set on fire
and burnt to the very keel, with all the goods in them, and
the assurers have paid the sums of money by.them assured.
Nevertheless, herein the assurers might have been wronged,
although they bear the adventure until the goods be landed;
for it corneth to pass sometimes, that whole ships' ladings are
sold on ship board, and never discharged," &c.. In the residue of this passage the author certainly intimates that the
wrong done to-the assurrs is in being made.to pay after the
transfer of the interest to a third person, 'and the-initiation.
of a new voyage. And the general doctrines involved in
this case are certhinly sustained by analogy to other cases.
It seems generally conceded, that in the case ofinsurante
against fire on land, negligence of servants or ofthe tenant
.s no defence, nor of the proprietor, unless of'such'a charactei" as to sustain the imputation of fraud or design. And
the rule that a loss, the proximate cause of which is a peril
'insured against, is a loss within- the, policy, although the remote cause may be negligence of the master or mariners,
hag been affirmed in several successive cases in the English
courts. The case of Watkins vs. Maitland, 6ited in argumentf, is a very strong case of this description. And both in
that and' the case of Bishop vs. Pentland,.'decided as.late as
1827, the decision in Busk vs. The Royal Exchange Assu-rance Company is expressly quoted by the court, and affirmed as law. So that the doubt expressed by Mr Phillips upon
the authority of that case doesnot seem well founded.
-Phillips on Insurance, 249.
,It is true that in the application of' the principles:tb' particular cases, courts of justice willsometimes find theinselves

SUPREME COURT.
[The Patapsco-Insurance Company vs. Coulter.]

embarrassed in discriminating between that crassa negligentia which will discharge the underwriters by varying or
increasing the risk, and that upon which they may be made
iiable on the ground of barratry ; but the difficulty ig only,
one which those engaged in the administration of justice
have often to .feel and lament-- to wit, the difficulty of
fathoming men's motives.; and in this the court can' only rely
on the judgment and experience of juries. While the captain is not regardless- of his duty to his owner, his actions
cannot be barratrous ; but if no act of infidelity to the owner
be imputable to him from the evidence, then it is affirmed
in various cases that a material increase of the risk from
gross negligence may discharge the underwriters., Such was
admitted to be the law in Toulmin vs. Anderson, I Taunt.
227, and Toulmin vs. Inglis, I Camp. The case of Pipon
vs. Cope, 1 Camp. 434, was decided on this distinction, and
*the defence set up in Heyman vs. Parish, 2 Camp. 149, went
upon the same ground. It is true these are nisi prius cases,
but they serve to'illustrate the doctrine and course of decision.
In the case of Arcngelo vs. Thompson, 2 Camp. 620, it
was ruled, that where the loss was laid by capture, it was no
defence for the underwriters; to prove that the capture was
-barratrous; and it would indeed be singular, if where ouie
breach is laid and proved, the party defendant could avail
himself of another'breach for which he was equally liable
on the same contract.
The third piayer for instruction is in these words: -" that
the plaintiffs had offered no evidence that the sales of the
flour at Gibraltar would have yielded the plaintiffs a profit,
and that therefore they were not entitled t6 recover." This
was refused, and the question is, whether the defendants
were entitled to, it, as prayed.
This instruction presents two oropositions : 1. That it was
necessary to prove loss of profits, o'therwise than by the loss
of the cargo.. 2. That the plaintiff was limited to proof.of
profits on a sale it Gibraltar. With regard to the second it
is clear that the instruction was pr -perly refused, for there
Was nothing in the policy to prevent the assured from proceeding with the original cargo to the Pacific, although the'

JANUARY TERM. 1830.

239

[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Coulter.]

course of trade would have sanctioned him in selling and
replacing it. But the first proposition is one of more difficulty.
Courtsof justice have got over their difficulties onthe
question whether profits are an insurable intdresit, but how
and where thatinterest must be established by proof, in case
of loss, is not well settled. Here again there appears to be
a. conflict between the British and American decisions.
The .earliest of the British decisions, that of Barclay vs.
Cousins, 2 East, 544, certainly supporfs the doctrine that the
profits sink with the cargo, or at least that the loss of one is
prima facie evidence of the loss of the other, and throws the
onus probandi uponi the defendant. Such is the intimation of the court, p. 551, and the'recovery was had in that
case witho.t' proof that prbfit would have been made had the
cargo arrived at the destined port. In the case of Henrickson
vs. Margetson, 2 East, 549, of which a note is given in that
case, the recovery was also had without proof that the profits
would have been made, or any other proof than an interest
in. and loss of the cargo; and lord Mansfield seems to have
suggested tie true ground for dispensing with such prqof:
to wi't, the utter impracticability of making it, without the
spirit of prophecy to determine the precise time when the
vessel would arrive at her destined port.
The-two subsequent cases which are cited in the elementary books to sustain the contrary doctrine, are not full to
the point. In that of Hodgson vs. Glover, 6 East, 316, there
was another question of"as great difficulty.: to wit, whether
in a clear case of average loss, the plaintiff could recover as
for a total loss, or recover any thing without evidence to
determine the gverage. Of the four judges who sat, two
decided against the plaintiff, upon the one ground, and. two
fipon the other.
In the second case, that of Eyre vs. Glover, 16 East,218,
although the point was touched upon in argument, yet the
court neither expressly affirm nor deny it; it ias .not the
leading question in the cause; and at last, judgment is rendered for plaintiff without requiring such proof. But'the
case of Mumford vs. Hallet,-1 Iohns. 439, goes. fdrther. It

SUPREME COURT.
[The Patapseco Insurance Company vs. Coulter.]

as a case of insurance on profits,, in which there was no.
evfd~nce given that profits would have beerk made upon a
arriva3, nor was any other loss proved. than an incident to the
loss of the goods. On'that state of facts, Livingston, justice,
who delivers the opinion of the court, remarks, "it does
not follow that a profit-will be made if the cargo arrived, yet
its loss would give a right, to recover on such a policy."
There are other, questions in the case; but, after all were
settled; this principle was essential to the, plaintiff's right.to
recover.
In the case of Fosdickvs. The Norwich Insurance Company, decided in the supreme court of errors of Connecticut,
the question was moved in argument, that to justify a recovery the plaintiff must show thatprofits would have accrued
upon safe arrival of the goods; but the language of the court,
in expressing their decision, is not so explicit as to enable us
to determine whether it was intended to apply as. well to the
proof.of loss as to the, insurable interest. Yet the right of
the plaintiff to recover being affirmed, in that case without
other.proof than the loss of the goods, it would seem to be
an authority for the doctrine that no other was necessary.
The. report furnishes no other proof of loss of profits than
what was implied in the loss of the cargo in which the insured had an interest. And on the question of insurable
interest, which was the main question in the cause; the
chief justice asks, "if profits are any thing more than an
exorescence upon the value of goods beyond the prime
cost."
- As tor the American cases, Mr Phillips quotes that of
Loomis vs. Shaw, (if I understand his'language as he meant
to use, it,) eds going farther-than the case warrants; 2 Johni.
Ca. 36. The court w#aives the question now under consideration, by suggesting that .the defendant had waived it by
an act ofrhis own.
In the case of 'Abbot vs. Sebor, 3 Johns. -Ca.,39, which
Was a motion for a new trial, the decision turned chiefly on
the question, whether the court had misdirected-the jury in
instructing them, thatthe plaintiff must recover tha whole
sum insured on profits, or nothing. -That is, that he could

JANUARY TERM 1830.

241

[The Patapsco Insurance Company'vs. Coulter.]

not recover for an average loss. The question, if proof
that profits would have been made had the vessel arrived in
-safety was necessary to. his recovering, was not touched.
Yet the right to recover is affirmed in that case, and it does
not appear that any proof to that effect had been offered or
required, beyond the loss of ihe goods on which the profit
was expected. -But the authority amounts to no more than
an implication.

We must now'dispose *of the question upon reason-and
principle; and here it seems difficult to perceive why, if profit be a mere excrescdnce of the principal, as some judges
have said; or an incident to or identified with it, as others
have said; why the loss of the cargo should not carry with
it the loss of the profits. This rule has convenience'and
certainty to recommend it; of which this case -presents a
striking illustration. Here was a voyage of many thousand
miles to be performed, the final'profits of which must have
been determined by a statement of accounts passing through
several changes, some of which might have resulted' in loss,
some in'gain; and in each case the good or ill fortune of the
adventure turning on the gain orloss of a day in the voyage.
Whit human calculation or human imagination could have
furnished testimony on a fact so speculative and fortuitous .
To have required testimony to it, would have been subjecting
the rights of the plaintiff to mere mockery.
On this point we must support the American decisions.
Justices THomrs& and B.tDwiN, dissenting.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Maryland, and was argued by counsel on consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this coirt, that
the judgment.of the said circuit court in this cause be and
the same is hereby affirmed with costs and damages, at-the
.rate of six per centum per annum.
VOL. IIH-2 F

