SUPREME COURT.

JYmA
s ,Aomo,,

oN %YHn DEmIn oF HA~imiA

V. HART, PLAT IF

N Euv o v8. ETIAS LAxn'EnE, DE ENDAXT IN IExOR.
This court has no authority, on a writ oferror from a state court, to declare a state
law void on a~count of its collision with a state constitution; it not being a
case embraced in tlie judiciary act, which gives the power of a w.it of error to
the highest judicial tribunal of the state. [288]
The plaintiff in error claimed to recover the land in controversy, having derived
his title under a patent granted by the state of New York to John Cornelius;
He insisted that the patent created a contract between the.state and the
patentee, his heirs and assigns, that they should enjoy the laild free from any
legislative reglations to be made in violation of. the constitution df the state,
.and that an act passed by the legislature of New York, subsequent to the
patent, did violate that contract. Under that act commissioners were appointed to investigate the contending. titles to all the lands held under such patents
as that iranted to John Cornelius, and by their proceedings, without the aid
of a jury, the title of the defendants in error was established against, and defeating the title under a deed made by John Cornelius, the patentde, and which
deed was executed under the patent.
This is not a case within the clause of the constitution of the United States,
which prohibits a state from passing laws which shall impair the obligation
of contracts. The only contract made hy the state is a grant to John Comelivs, his heirs and. assigns of the land. The patent contains no covenant to do
or. not to do any further act in relation to the l4nd; and the court are not inclined to create a contract by implication. The act cf the legislature of New
York does not attempt to take the lind from the patentee, the grant remains-in
full effect; and the proceedings of the commissioners under the law, operated
upon titles derived under, and not adversely to the patent. [289][
It is within the undoubted powers of state legislatures, to pass redording acts by
which the elder grantee shall be postponed to a younger, if the prior -eed is
not recorded withili a limited-time; and the power is the same whether the
deed is dated before r after the recording act. Though the effect of such a
deed is to render the prior deed fraudulent and void against a subsequent purchaser, it is not a law violating the obligation of contracts. So too is the
power to pass limitation laws. Reasons of sound policy have led to the general
adoption of laws of this description, and their validity cannot be questioned.
The time and manner of their operation, the exceptions to them, and the acts
from which the time limited shall begin to run, will generally depend on the
sound discretion of the legislature, according to the nature of the titles, the
situation of the country, and the emergency which leads to their enactment.
Cases may occur, where the provisions of a law on these subjects may b6 so
.unreasonable as to amount to a denial of a right, and to call for the interposition of this court. [290]

THIS was a writ of error to the court for the trial of impeachments and correction of errors for the state of New York.

JANUARY TERM' 1830.

281

[Jackson vs. LMmphlre.]

An action of.ejectment was commenced-in the-supreme
coutt of"New York, to May term 1825, for a tract of land,
'part of lot number thirty-six,.in Dryden, Tompkins county,
partof the military tract; and; formerly part of Onondaga
county.* The cadise was tried in June 1826, and d verdict
and judgment were rendered 'for the defendant.' On the
trial of the cause;. a bill of exceptions was tendered by- the.
plaintiff, and a writ of error.was prosecuted by him'to the
supreme court of errors "of the state of New York,. where
the judgment of the- court below was affirmed; and the
plaintiff brought'.up the case to this court by writ of erfor.
The title of the plaintiff, as stated in the bill of excbptions,'
was derived under letters patent, for the whole lot. number
thirty-six, issued to John Cornelius, and his heirs and assigns;
under the great seal of.the state of New York, dated the
17th of July 1790; and a conveyance in fee of the lot from
the patentee to.Henry Hart, dated the lP7th 'of January 1784,
duly proved and deposited for record, according to the pro-

visions of a statute of 'the state, on the 25th of April 1-795.
Evidence was also-given to prove that Henry Hart died some
time in the summer of 1788, leaving the lessor of the plaintiff his heir at law, he being then a minor, aged about five
years. That about the year 1791, he was taken to Canadaby his paternal uncle, and afterwards entered into the employ of the North.West Company, and continued in ihe same
for upwards .of sixteen years, and then returned to- New
York; and has since resided in Albany in that state.
The title of the -defendant wds derived from the same patejnt to John Cornelius, and under 'a deed. executed by him,
dated.June 23, 1784, duly proved October 31, 17911 and
deposiied, according to the statute, April 3, 1795. By this
deed, the 'premises in dispute were conveyed to Samuel
Brown. On the.2"5th 6f January 1793, Brown conveyed to
William J. Vredenburgh and John Patterson; on the 9th of
June 1800, Vredenburgh,- for himself and as attorney for Patterson, regularly constituted, conveyed to Gerrer H. Van
Wagoner; who on the 9th of June.1800, conveyed to Wil.liam J. Vredenburgh; and by a deed duly, executed by Vredenburgh, July 5, 1800, duly*acknowledged and recorded,
VOL. II1.-2 L
-

SUPREME COURT
[Jackson vs. Lamphlre.] .

the premises were vested in Elias Lamphire, the defendant
in error.
'On the 24th of March 1797, thelegislature of New York
passed "an act to settle disputes concerning the titles to
lands in the county of Onondaga.",
The-'preamble of that lIw recites:
Whereas a convention of delegates from a number of
towns in the county of Onondaga haide, by their petition presented to the legislature, prayed that a law may be passed
authorising aspeedy and equitable mode of settling.disputes
relativeto the titles -6f-land in-that county: -therefore,. be it
ehacted, &c.
The first section appoints commissioners, with full power
to hear, examine, award and determine, according to law
aid equity, all disputes and controversies respecting the
titles, and all claims whatsoevei 'to any lands in the county
of Onondaga, and to examine any party or parties' submitting to their examination and witnesses on oath, and to
commit any witness refusing to be sworn or to answer any
question or questions touching the premises, to the -gaol of
the county in which they may then sit, there to remain until
he or she shall submit to be sworn; and to answer such.question or questions : provided always, that no person shall be
obliged to answer any question which may tend to-charge
himself or herself with any crim6, nor shall any witness be
compelled to answei any question or questions wherein he
o- she shall be interested.
The. second section directs that the commissioners shall
proceed to execute their trusts, and- shall meet for the purpose at times most convenient, in the county of Onondaga,and shall cause their award or determination -upon every
claim or controversy respecting any lands in the said county
of Onondaga, to be entered in a book or books to be by them
.provided for that purpose; which award or determination
shall,.after, the expiration of two years after the making there,of, become binding and conclusive to all persons, except
such as,.conceiving themselves aggrieved by any such award
or determination, shall within the said two years dissent from.
the same, and give notice thereof to the said commissioners,

JANUARY TERM 1830.
EJackson vs. Lamphire.j

or file the same in the office of the clerk of the county of
.Onondaga; and shall also, if not in the actual possession-of
such land, within three years after such award or cietermination commence a sdit or suits, either at law or in equity,
to recover 'the land or to establish his or her right to the same,
aind shall prosecute such suit or suits to effeci; in which case,
such aw'ard or determination. shall not operate as a bar to
such suit or suits, but if no such .E it or- suits are brought:
within the times aforesaid and prosecuted to- effect, then the.
said award or determination of -the commissioners shall be
final and conclusive; and in case any such suit commenced
within the time aforesaid shall abate by the death of the de-:
fendant, then the party dissenting, or if by his .death,,then
his heirs or -devisees, may at any time within one year revive.
such suit,'or if necessary commence a new. suit for the purpose aforesaid, and prosecute the same with like effect as
such first suit might have been prosecuted, if it had -not,
abated as aforesaid ; and the said commissioners are hereby
directed to entew in the said book or. books a-note of the
time of receiving every such- dissent; -and when they.shall
have executed the trusts ind duties by this act comnmitted.to
them, they shall deposit the said book or books in the office
of the. clerk of the said county of Onondaga, there to remain
as records of their proceedings: provided always, that if the
parties in -any case Will enter into an agreement beford .the
said-commissioners, to abide- by their'determination, then
and in every such case the award or determination of thesBiid-con r iissioners shall be. final and conclusive as-to such
parties and their heirs for ever.
The third section directs notice of their appointment and-of the time and pitce -of their meeiing to be given by the
commissioners-, and that the notice shall require all persons
having any dispute -or controversy respecting any: title or
claim to any lanid in the said county of Onondaga, to appear
in.persoh, or by their-agents or attorneysi beford the :said
commissioners, -at the time and place therein mentioned,. to
exhibit their, claims, that the said commissioners may proceed, in the execution of the trusts commnitted t6 them.

284

SUPREME COURT.
[Jackson vs. Lampbire.]

By thesixth section it is declared, that':as -to all lands in
the county to which no adverse claim shall 'be made, an entry.to that effect shall be inade in the books of the commissioners, but inl cases of interfering claims they shall examine
and determine the same ; and in all cases where there are
filed or recorded-in the said office two or more deeds from
on'e-and the same person, of"in the same" right to different
peisons, ifany person interested under either of them shall
neglect-to make his claim,'nnd..ip all cases where several
-persons appear to' haveclaims to one and the same piece of.
land, and any of them do not appear before the said commissioners, they shall cause a notice to be published in the
newspaperi aforesaid, and continued for six-weeks, requiring
all persons interested in such land to appear at a certain
time and place therein mentioned, not less than six months
from the date of such notice, and exhibit their claims to the
same land ; and after the.expiration of the time therein .mentioned, it hall be lawful 'for the said comniissioners to proceed -to the examination and determination of all matters
concerning the said land, and the title to. the same, whether
all or any'of the.parties interested therein appear and exhibit their claimsor not; saving to all perspns aggrieved by
any such award or determination the right of dissenting and
prosecuting in the manner aforesaid.
The seventh provides, that if the party dissenting from the
award of the.commissioners shall be in the actual possession
of the premises, then the award of the commissioners. shall
.be 'as to such person of no effect; and unless the party in
whose favour.the award of the comroissioners shall be made,
shall within three .years commence a suit to establish his
-title to'the land, and shall prosecute the same to effect, then
he shall be for ever barred of all right or claim to tlie land.
The eighth section declires, that neither the act nor any
thing therein contained shall be construed to the prejudice
of any person urlder the age of twenty-one years, or feme
covert, or person not of sound mind,'or in prison ; if such infant- feme ciovert, person not sound of mind, or prisoder,
shall within three years after coming to the age.-of twenty-

JANUARY TERM 1830.

286.

EJackson vs. Lamphire.]

one years, becoming diqcovert, of sound mind, and at liberty,
make their dissent, and bring their suit and prosecute the
same to effect.
The twelfth sectdon prohibits 'the exercise of any powers
undOer the act aftex the 1st day of June 1800.
.On the 17th of December 1799, two of the conimissioneri
made an award in the following terms.
"Having heard-the proofs and allegatious, and examined
the title of such of the parties interested in lot number thirtysix, in the township of Dryden, in the county of Ca:yuga; ashave appeared and exhibited claims to the said lot;.and
having also inspected the record§ and files'remaining in the
office of the clerk of the county aforesaid, relative thereto,
and due deliberation being: had thereon, we, the commissioners, appointdd by and in pursuance of 'the act :entitled
"an act to settle disputes concerning titles of lands in the
cbunty 'of Onondaga," do, in pursuance of the authority given
us in and b, the said act, award and-determine, that Wi.liam 3. .Vredenburgh and John Patterson are enti Ied to, and
stand seised in their demesne of an absolute estate of inheand to the same.lot, subject to'tbe reservations,
ritance; ini
provisions, and conditions, contained in the original grant."
Mr Storrs, for the plaintiff in error, contended : that the
Judgment of the supreme court of error for the state'of. New
-Ydrk was erroneous, and' should'be reversed, for these reasons.
1. The letters patent, granting th' lot to John Cornelius,
created a :contract with the grantee, his heirs and assigns,
that they should enjoy the same free from any legislative regulations, to be made in violation of the constitution of the
state.
2. -The act .of the legislature 1of the state of New York
.violated the constitution of the state and the United States;
and- the determination or award of the commissioners under
it was a nullity.
3. It violated thai provision of'the constitution of the state
which ordains, that "the legislature of this -state .shall, at io

SUPREME COURT.
[Jacksda vs. Lamloire.]

time hereafter, institute any-new court or courts, but such-as

shall proceed according to the course of the common law."
4. It violated that article of the state constitution which
ordained, that " trial by jury,.in all cases in which it hath
heretofore been used in the colony of New York, shall be
established, and remain inviolate for ever."
5. It was, therefore, as well for these violations of the state
,constitution as on general.principles, a statute which impaired the obligation of contracts.
6. The Onondaga commission was a court, withiin the
meaning of the constitution of the state, which did not proceed according to the course of the common law.
7. It was without precedent; and was an arbitrary, ex
parte, and summary tribunal, proceeding in violation of all
thesecurities of property, which the citizens of that state
had .confided by their constitution to the protection of their
commorr law courts.
Mr Hoffman; for the defendant in error, made the following points:
1.- On a writ of error, to the court of last resort$ in a state;
under the circumstances of this case; the onlye.error, which.
can be alleged or regarded is, that the act of the legislature,
in pursuance of wliie'h the award was made, is repugnant -to
the constitution of the United States..
2. The act of the legislature of New York, entitled." an
act. to settle disputes conicerning the title to'lands in the
county of Onondaga," passed the 24th of March 1797, is not
repugnant to the constitution 6f the United States, nor iithe
award under it.
3.The plaintiff in error contends that, the patent of the
statp of New York implies a contract on the part of the.state
with the grantee, his heirs and assigns, for ever; that the
-legislatureof the state should not pass any law"affecting the
.estate, contrary to the state constitution: that the law constituted a court which did not proceed by jury, according to
the course of the common law, and thus the'tict impairs the
obligation of an impied contract, and violatei the constitu-:tion. of the United States :

JANUARY. TERM.-1830.

287

E~aekso'n vs. Lampbfre.]

Fr the defendant it: is :denied that any such 6ontrct'
.can:be inferred or implied-from the grant, nor hny-other" thain
such ascoAld have been-fairly implied fi,,m it, if it'had'been
.made by the late ctony ot- New York, or by akny. citizen, of
the state, or-of lands lying without the state; and the law-wtll
not imply-a covenant not to do an'actwhich the-state constitution had -made ibpossible.
,The act of:March 24, 17.97 is not contrary to the consti'ttion -ofthe stateI but has been uniformly declared bythe
cdurts of the state, and lately by its highest court of judicature, to be constitutional ; "and their decision' is- final on-this
question.

,

5. The Onondaga commissioners were not a court ; and
couId iot make any judicial sentence respecting these lands:.
by the provisb- to.the third section of the act, where- the parties would agree before them to abideby their determination,.
- this award is declared to-be final -in all othei cases they act'ed is c6mmissioners to ascertain and report the state of the
title-to these-lands.
6. Their awird, as-such, had no effect or force-to divest or
impair'the estates and if a paity is. coficluded by it;it is be-"
.caiugehe has, consented and agreed ,thereto; by his neglect
" -'.ofilehis dissent, and bring his-Suit. within the period-:pre-.
Wcfibeid'-by liw. •
.The 'Rcf is a 'beneficial stutut of limitations, which did
not. begin to-run udtil after. the a*ard was made, and-d6esnot impair the- oligations of abn-contradt; delivered the opinion of.the Court.Both parties. clam the. premises. in- question, under John
Cornelius, to-whom the state of New York grauted-ther by
patent, dated. the 7th of July, 1790, in consideration of 'his
m.litafy serviies.in the -revolutionary war..
SiY years -before the date.of the patent, and while the title of Oornelius was ,imperfect, he conveyed'-the premises to
Eeuty Hait-, th.fkthef of-the plaintiff's lessor, by deed dated
'January the 17th, .1784, proved-and deposited in the office of
ihe-blerk of the pbunty of Albany, -according to law, on the
Mr Jutstic' !.&rW

-

0th of April 1796..

288

SUPPUME -CouRT4 ,
[acksQn v.,L'awphlre.,j

flenry Hart died in 17.88, leaiing tri' plaintiff, bi. onl T
childiand heir at law, W.o was born the'21st of September..
1784, removed to .Canada ini 179'1, and remained tbere- till'
18Q7 or I08, when he.rxe.rfied io Albany, whr.herasided till the commencement of this .uit of May term I85:
he claims as-heir at law. to. his fathef.
On the-23d of 'Jane 1784,.4ohn' Cornelius cdnveyedthe
same premises to Samuel -.Broom by deed, duly' proved and
deposited'as aforesaid o1'the. 3l ofApril 1795. The title of'
Broom, .by sundry, mesne conveyances, became vested. in"
William J,. Vredenhurgh, who. conveyed .9. the "defendant.
The premises. were vacant till 1808, .ihen possession" wastken: under Vredenburgh, who'then heldthe title 'of Broom..
The defendant did not qu.estionthebri* nal validity 6f the
-deed to Henry Hart,. but rested his defence on,an act of assembly ,of the state of New York, .passed the 24th -ofMaxch
.1797, to settle disputes concerning tiiles to, lands, in -the
twhichre
set forth.
county of Onondaga, the-provisions-of
in the case.
The -defendant offered in.evidqnce'an awd made by two
of .the coitnissioprs appointed:.by t his act, awardingthle
land, in controversy to,'William F. Vredeiburgh and Jolr
Patters6n (to-whom Broom:had'conveyed); the :award wais
dated December-17th,. 1799, and no dissent' was entered by.
theplaintiff. -The .court, admitted the award to be read in
evidence; and gavein .charge to th'e'jury that it was coinpetent and conclusive to defiat the title of'the plaintiff. 'Jtdgmentl was rendered-for the defendant in tbesupieme court,
and affirmed in the court of errors; and the case comes before
ds'by writ.of-errmr, unider the twenty-fifth sectibn of the judiciary act.
The, plaintiff contends, that the act of the 24th' of March.
1797, and till proceedings under it, are void; being a violtL'tion both of that Partof the constitution of the lUnited States
which declares, that no state shall pass any law impairing
the obligation of contracts, and of the constitution of the
state of New York, which declares that the legislature shill
at ho time institute any new ourt.but such as shall 'proceed
according to the course of the common la*;andthat trial by

JANUARY TERNM 1830.

289

[Jacksn vs. Lampiire.]

jury' in all cages in Which it bath heretofore been used, shall
be established, and remain inviolate for ever.
This cburt has no authority, on a writ of error frbma state
court, to declare a state law-void on account of its collision"
with a state constitution; it not being a caseembraced in the
judiciary act, which alone gives power to issue a writ of error
in this'case; and will therefore refrain from expressing any
opinion on the points.made by the plaintiff's counsel, in relation to the constitution of New York.
The plaintiff insists, that the patent to John Cornelius creates a.contract with the grantee, his heirs and assigns, that
they should enjoy the land therein.granted, free from any legislative regulations to be made in violation of the constitution of the state; that the act in question does violate some
of its provisions; and tlierefore impairs the obligation of a,
contract.
The court are not inclined to adopt this reasoning, or to
consider *thisas a case coming fairly within the clause of the
constitution of the 'United States reliedton by the plaintiff.
The only contract made by the state is a grant to John Cornelius, hit heirs and assigns, of.the land in question: the
patent contains *no covenant to do or not to do any further
act inrelation to the land;. and-we. do not, in this case, feel
at liberty to create one by implication. The state has not
by this act impaired the 'force of-he grant; it does not profess or -attempt to take the land from the assigns of Cornelius,-and give it to-one not claiming under him; neither does
•the award produce *thateffect: the grant remains in full force,
thie 'property conveyed isheld by his graitee,.'and the state
asserts no claims to' it. The question 'between the parties
is, which of the.deeds from Cornelius carries the title. Presurhing that the laws of Ne' York authorized a soldier to
convey his bounty land before receiving' a patent, and that
at the date of the deeds there 'was no law compelling the
grantees to record them, they would take priority from their
date. This is the legal result of the,deeds, but there is no
contract 'on the part of.the state, ihat the priority of title
shall depend solely on the .principles ofthe common law, or
that the.state shall pass no law imposing on a grantee the
VOL.. IIIi--2 M

SUPREME COURT.
IJackson vs. Lamphbre.]

performance of acts* which were not necessary to the lgal
operation. of his deed at the time it was delivered.. It is
within the undoubted power of state legislatures to pass re,cording acts,by which the elder grantee shall. be postponed
to a younger, Jf .th prior- deed is .not. recorded within the
.limited time ;. and the power is the same whether the deed is
'dated befor6,-or +after the passage of the recording act.
Though the effect of such a law is to render the prior deed
frudulent and 'void against a subsequent purchaser, it is not
a law impairing the Qbligatibn rf contracts; -such too is the
power to, pass acts-of limitations; and their effect. Reasons
of sound policy have led to the general adoption of laws of
both desc'riptibns, and their validity -cannot be questioned.
The time and manner of their operation, the exceptip'ns to
them,'and the acts from which the time limited shall begin
to run, will generally depend on.the'souid discretion of the.
legislature, according to the nature of the titlesy the situation of the country, and the emergency which leads to thir
enactment. Cases .may -occur where-the provisions of a law
on those subjects may be so unreasonable as to amount to a
denial of. d right,.and call 'or the-interp'osition of the court;
but the present is 'not one.
Th-d state of New York, ,n 1794, had felt tle necessity
of legislating on .these military lands. The preamble to the
recording act of January 1794, shows very strongly the policy
of compelling the deeds for these lands to be recorded; and
the known condition -of that part of the state,, covered by
military grants, presented equally cogent reasons, in our opinion,- for the pasage of the act in .question.
,As this court-is confined to the consideration of only one
questoA growing out of this law, we do not think it necessary to examine its provisions in detail: it is sufficient to
say, that we -cin see Aothing-in them inconsistent with the
constitution of .the United -States, or the principles of
sound legislation. Whether it is' considered. 'as an- act. of
limitations, or one in the nature of-a recording act, or as a.
law sui generig, called for by the peculiar situation of"that
part-of the state on which itoperafes ;"we are unanimously
of .opinion, that- it.is not-a Idw which impairs the obligation

JANUARY TERM 1830.

291

[Jackson vs. Laniphfre.]

of a contract; and that in receivinigthe award in evidence,
and declaring it to be competentand condlusive on the right
of the plaintiff; there was no errorin Ihe judgment.of the
court below. .The judgment is therefoie affirmed.
This.cause came on to be heardon the transcript .of the
:record from the court for the trial 'of 'impeachments and
correction. of errors for 'the .state of New York, and was
is ordered
argued by counsel; on consideration whereof; .it
and'adjudged by this court, that* the judgment of the said
court for.the trial of impeachments and correctiq of errors
for theostate.of New York in this cause, be, and.the same is
hereby affirmed-with costs.

