346

ALEXANDER

SUPREME COURT.

FINTAY AND JOHN MITCH.IL, PLATIFs IN E
vs. WILLIAx KING's LEssEE.

Rmo

The testator was seised of a very large real and.personal estate, in the states of
Virginia, Kentucky, Ohio and Tennessee. After making, by his will, in addition
to her dower, a very liberal provision for his wife, for her life, out of part of his
real estate, and devising, in case of his having a child or children, the whole of
his -estate to such child or children, with the exception of the provision for
his wife, and certain other bequests; his will declares:
"In case of having no children, I then leave and bequeath all my real estate at
the death of my wife, to William King, son of brother James King, on condition of his marrying a daughter of William Trigg's, and my niece Rachel his
wife, lately -Rachel Finlay; in trust for the eldest son or issue of said marriage ; and in case such marriage should not take place, I leave and bequeath
said estate. to any child; giving preference to age, of said William and Rachel
Trigg, that will marry a child of my brother James King's, or of sister Elizabeth's, wife to John Mitchell, and to their issue."
The-testator died without issue. He survived his father, and had brothers and
sisters of the whole and half blood, who survived him, and also a sister of the
whole blood, Elizabeth, the wife of John Mitchell, who died before him. William and Rachel Trigg never had a daughter, but-had four sons. James King,
the father of William King, the devisee, had only one daughter, who intermarried with Alexander M'Call. Elizabeth, the wife of John Mitchell, had two
daughters, -both of whom ari married, one to William Helskill, the other to
Abraham B. Trigg.

By the Court. We have found no case in which a general devise in words,
importing a present interest, in a will making no other disposition of the
property, on a condition which may be performed at any time, have been
construed, from the mere circumstance that the estate is given on condition,
to require that the condition must be performed before the estate can vest.
There are many cases in which the contrary principle has been decided. The
condition on which the devise to William King depended, is a condition subsequent. [377]
it is certainly well settled, that there are no technical appropriate words which
always determine whether a devise be on a condition precedent or subsequent.
The same words have been determined differently, and the question is always
a question of intention. If the language of the particular clauie, or of the
wh6le will, shows that the act upon which the estate depends must be performed before the estate can vest, the condition of course is precedent; and
unless it is performed, the devisee can take nothing. If, on the contrary, the
act does not necessarily precede the vesting of the estate, but may accompapy
or follow it, if this is to be collected from the whole will, the condition is
subsequent. (374]
It is a general rule, that a devise in woids otthe present timo, as "I give to A.
my lands in B.," imports, if no contrary intent appears, an immediate interest,
which vests in the devisee on the death of the "testator. It is also a general

JANUARY TERM-1830
[Finlay eta . vs. King's Lessee.]
rule, that if an estate be given on a condition for the performance of which no
time is limited, the devisee has his life for,performance. The result of these
two principl.es seems to be, that a devise tb A., on conditiori that lhe shall
marry B.,ifun~ontrolled by other words; takes effect immediately, and the devisee performs the condition, if he marry B. at any time during his life. The
* condition is subsequlent. [3.76]
The intent of the testator is the cardinal rule in the construction of wills; and if
* that intent can be cleary perceived, and is not contrary to some positive rule
of. law, itmust prevail; although in giving effect to it, some- words should be
rejected-or so restrained in their application as to change their literal meaning in
the pgrtcular instance. £377]
As the devise in the jill to William King was on a condition subsequent, it.may
be construd so far as respects the time of taking-possession, as if it had-been
unconditional. The condition opposes no obstacle to his immediate possession,
ifthe intent of the testator shall require that-construction. - [378]
The introductoryclause-in the will states, "I, William King, have thought proper
to make and ordain this -to be& my last will and testament, leaving and bequeathing my worldly estate in the manner following:" These words are.
entitled to considprableinfluencein a questioh of doubtful intent, in-acase where
the whole prQperty is giyen, and the. questiorn arises between the heir and ddvisee respecting.the interest devised. The words of the particular clause'also
.carry the whole 6state from the heir, -but they fix the death .of the testator's
wife as the time *hen the devisee "shallbeentitled to possesisin. They are
cin case of having no children. I thin'leave and bequeath all my re4l estate,
- at the'death of-my wife, to William King, son of. brother James King." *The
whole estate Isdevised to William King, but the possession of.that part'of It
- 'which is given to the wife or 6thers for life, is liostjoned until her death.
[379]
Qiwre. Did William Kipg-takean estate which, in the events that have hap-.
pened; enutes to his -own benefit; ot is he, in the existing state of things, to
be eonsidered a trustee-for the heirs of tha testator? This question cannot -be
*decided in this cause; it belongs to a court of chancery, and will be determined
when the heirs hll bring'a bill tp enforce the, execution of the trust. [383]

ERROR to the.district court of the United States for the
western district of Virginia.

This was an ejectment brought in.thedistricfcourt of the
western-district of Viiginia,'and the question ifivolved in the
suit was the cobstruction to'be. given to-the will of William.
King, deceased, formerly of Washingtoncountyii Virginia.
The cause was argued, in the court below, on ihe following case agreed' and the judgnient of that court being in
favour of the defendant'in error, the 'plaintiffs brought the
case into this court.
The folowing is the cas. agreed.
We agree that William King departed this life on the 8th

SUPREME COURT.
[Finlay et a]. vs. King's Lessee.]

day 'oel October 1808, having firt duly made and published
his last will and testament which was afterwards admitted to
recordlin the county court of Washington county in Virginia,
where he-had resided, and is in the words and figures followingl:
"Meditating on the uncertainty of human life, I, William
King, have thought proper to make and ordain this t; be
my last will and testament, leaving and bequeathing my
worldly, estate in the manner following, to wit:
"To Iny beloved wife Mary, in addition to her legal dower
of all ny estate, the dwelling house and other buildings on
lot number ten in Abingdon, where I now reside, together
-with the garden, orchard, and that part of my fruit hill
plantation south of the great road and lands adjacent to
Abingdon, now rented to C., Finlay and Co., and at my
father's kecease, including those in his occupancy on the
north side of the great road, for her natural life.
"I also will and declare, that in case my beloved wife
Mary haih hereafter a child or children by me, that the said
child orchildren is and are to be sole heirs of my whole
estate, r~al and personal ; excepting one-third part of specified leplacies and appropriations hereinafter mentioned;
which, ih case of my having children, will reduce each legacy hereinafter mentioned to one-third part of the amount
hereafte" specified, and the disposition of the real estate,
as hereATter mentioned in that case' wholly void.
"In cfse of having no children, I then leave and bequeath
all my rpeal estate at th6 death of my wife to William King,
son of brother James King, on condition of his marrying a
daughter of William Trigg's and my niece. Rachel his wife,
lately Rachel Finlay, in trust for the eldest son or issue of
said marriage; and in case.such marriage .should not take
place, I leave and bequeath said estate to any child, giving
prefer.dnce to age, of said William and Rathel Trigg that
will marry a child of my brother James King's or of sister
Elizaleth's, wife to- John Mitchell, and to their issue-and
during the life time of my wife, it is my intention and requesi, that William Trigg, Jqmes King and her do'carry
on my business in copartnership, both saltworks and rer-

JANUARY TERM 1830.

349 "

[Finlay et al.
vs. King's Lessee.]

chindizing, each equal shares; and that in consideration of
the .use of my capital they pay out of the same the following legacies:
"To John Mitchell,9n condition of his assisting and car.ryirng on business with them at the usual salary as formerly,
viz. $1,000 per year, for from two to five years, as they may
wish his assistance. An additional sum.of $10,000, payable five years after my decease, and to each of his children
upon'coming of age $1,000 more than the general legacy
hdreafter mentioned.
"-To Connally Finlay a like sum of $i0,000; payable in
five years.
"To my nieces -Elizabeth Finlay and Elizabeth Mitchell
(being calldd for my grandmother with whom I was broughtup) $10,000 in twelve months after marriage, provided they
are, then eighteen years of age; if not, at the age of eighteen;
to each of my other nephews and nieces- at the age of
eighteen,,that is children of my brother James, sisters Nancy
and Elizabeth, $1,000 eAch-to -each of the children of my
half-brother Samuel-and. half-sister Hannah $300 each, as
aforesaid; to my said -sister Hannah, in two.years after my
decease $1,000; and to my.said half-brother Samuel, in case
of personal application to the manager at Saltville or to my
executors in Abingdon, on the 1st day of January annually
during :his life $150"; if not called for on said day to be
void fbr that year. and receipt:to.be personally given.
"It is my wish and xequest that my wife, William T.igg,
and James.King, or any two. of them that shall concur in
carrying on the business, should either join'all the young
men that may reside with me ahd be-assisting me in my
decease, that are worthy. or. furnish them with* four or five
thousand dollars worth of-goods at a reasonable advance, on
a credit of from three: to five years, taking. bonds with interest. from one year after supply.
"Ia. case-my brother James should prefer continuing partnership with Charles S. Carson, (in place of closing the
business of King, Carson 'and- King, as soon as legal and convenient;) then my Will- is that William Trigg and- my
wife carry on the business, one-third of each for their own

SUPREME COURT.[Finlay et al. vs. King's LesseL.]

account, and the rbmaining third to be equally divided. betw6en the children of my brother lames and sisters. Nancy
-and Elizabeth.
"To my fathei:, Thomas King,. I leave'during his life the
houses he now resides in and occupies at Fruit hill, together
with that part of my land in 'said tract' north-of the great
road that he chooses to farm, with what fruit he- may want
from, the orchard ; the spring house.being intended for a
wash house with the appurtenance s, subject to the direction
-of my beloved wife Mary; as also -the orchard, except as
aforesaid. I .also leave and bequeath to my father the sum
of two hundred dollars per annum during his life,. and if,
accidentally, fire 'should destroy his Fincastle house and
buildings, a further sum of two hundred dollars per annum
while his"income from there would cease.
"I also leave and bequeath to the Abingdon academy
the sum of $10,000, payable to the trustees in the year 1816,'
or lands to that amount, to be vested in said academy with
the interest or rents thereon for ever.
"Abingdon, Virginia, 3d of March 1806.
WILLIAM KING.
Test. Wm.D. NEELSON,
JNo. DoHERTY.

"I hereby appoint William Trigg of Abingdon and lames
King of Nashville executors of my last will-and testament
enclosed, written by my own.hand and signed'this 3d day
of March 1806.
WILLIAM. KING.
",The other wills of previous dates to .said 3d of March
1806, .being void.
WILLIAM KING."
We agree that William King, at the time of his 'death,
was seised and possessed of seventy-six tracts of land in the
said county of Washington, containing in the whole 19,473
acres of land, on one of which tracts is the saltworks, which
have, since his death, been leased for years, at the annual
rent of thirty thousand dollars; also of nineteen lots in-the.
town' of Abingdon in Washington county, nine of which pro-

JANUARY TERM _1830.
[Finlay et al. vi. K ngs Lessee,]

duced an annual rent of siz.hundred and sixty dollars; also
of fourteen tracts ofiland in the county of Wythe, containing
3,494j; also of eighteen tracts of land in the state of Tennessee, containing in thewhole 10,880;. also of shares in town
lots in several of the towns in.the said state'ofTennessee. We
also agree that the said William King survived his father in the
will mentioned ;that the said William King had brothers-and
sisters, to wit: James King, a brother of the wholeblood;
Nancy, a sister of the whole blood; the ,wife of Connally
Finlay in the vi~ll mentioned; Samuel King, a'brother of
the half blood; Hannah, a sister of the half blood, the wife
of John. Allen;-all of which brothers and. sisters before
named, survived the said William King; that another sister
of the said William King, of the whole blood, died before
him, and was named Elizabeth, the wife of John Mitchelli
wfio is mentioned in the will.
We agree that William King, the lessor of the plaintiff, is
the same William King, the son of Jdmes King, brother of
the testdtor, mentioned by him in the will.
We further agree that William Trigg, in the will mentioned, departed this life on the 4th .ofAugust 1813, leaving Rachel Trigg, in the will mentioned, his widow, and four
sons, the said Rachel having borne them to the said William
Trigg, and -not having borne any daughter to him- the said
William Trigg, at any time, which said-sons are now living';
that Mary, who was the wife of the said William King, is
still living, aged forty-three years, and is now the wife of
Franeis Smith.
We further agree that William King, the lessor of the
plaintiff, is married lo Sarah Bekem; that James. King ha&
only one daughier, named Rachel- Mary Eliza, *Who.is -now,
the wife of Alexander M'Call ;,and that Elizabeth, -the wife
of John Mitchell, had only two dauhters, to wit: Elizabeth,who is now the wife of William'Heiskill, and Polly, who is
now the wife of Abraham B. Trigg.
We agree thrt William King the testator died -seised arid
possessed of the house and lot in the declaration mentioned.
We agree the lease entry and .ous'ter in the declaration sup-

SUPREE COURT.
[Finlay et at. us. King's Lessee.]

posed; and that the defendants arein possession of the house
and lot in ,the declaration mentioned.
'If upon this state of facts the lessor of-the plaintiff ought
to recover at this time, we agree that judgment shall be-entered for him; and that if the court shall be ofopinion that
he ought not to recover until after the death of Mary, the
ifeof Francis Smith, or that he ought not at any time to
recover, judgment shall be entered in favour of the defendants. We also agree that the property in controversy is
worth more than two thousand dollars.
The case was argued for .the OlAintiff in error,.by Mr
Sheffy; and by Mr, Smyth and Mr Webster, for .the defendant, at the last term; and was held under advisement by t6e.
court.
Mr Sheffy proposed to consider. the case under two Peneral aspects.
1. Has the defendant in error any title to the estate in
question, regarding the devise ts personal to himself.
2. Has he any title, should the deviie be considered. as a
trust.
It is contended, -that -he has no- title. That no interest
whatever vested in him, because the condition presented by
the testator has not been performed. He has not married'a
daughter of William Trigg and Rachel his wife.
This has a condition precedent, without the performance
of which no right could vest in the devisee.
If the will. is construed .literally, the words employed- by
the.testator are as strong as they can be. -He gives the estate
"on condition" that the devisee shall marry a person not in
being, but expected to come into existence, the offspring of
his wife's brother and his own niece. He anticipates that such
a marriage may not take place. In this event he directs
that his whole real estate shall' go to such other persons,
among certain collateral relations, as shall give effect to the
object he had in view.
But it is admitted that the question, -whether the condition is precedent or subsequent, does not depend on any
form of expression; It depends on the testator's intention.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Finlay et a]. vs. King's Lessee.]

He has a right to bestow- his estate on whom, and on what
condition he 'pleases, so that he violates no established rule
of law. To ascertain .that intention, we must be governed
by those rules of constfuction which have been established
by a series of judicial' decisions.
These decisions enable us to deteimine the general principles which give a character to conditions in contracts, and
devises and bequests ; either as conditions precedent or subsequent. So far as the present question is concerned, they
establish, that where the testator'requires the devisee to do.
an act which he regards as important to be accomplished;
or'where he. prescribes a qualification which the devisee is to
acquire; the performance of the act, and the attainment of
the qualification, will be'regarded as .conditions.precedent,
unless a manifest intention to the contrary is apparent.
In the case before the coUrt, the testator had no children.
He had a strong desire to effect. a iunion between the family
of his wife and his own. In the disposition ofhis real estate,
he contemplated the attainment of that object as paramount
to all personal considerations.- There-is no reason to believe
that his nephew William King was the object of his peculiar
-attachment. So far from -it,he withholds from. him (though
he bore his own name) even the smallest bounty, unless. he
should become instrumental in -the accomplishment of his
primary purpose. Ldoking to his marriage with a-daughte
of :William Triggand'Rahell his wife, as 'an event which
'might never ,happen; he endeavoured to stimulate others,
standing in the same felation- to, him, to. effect the desired
union of the two families. He did not dedicate his estate.
to gratify a particular personal attachment, or to'promote individual interests.; hut to -bring about 'an 'event-which he
strongly desired.
The case of Bertie vs. Falkland, 2 Vernon; 833, strongly
supports-the construction contended f6r by the plaintiff in
error. There the 'testator devised an estate to Elizabeth
Willoughby-, an infant of ten years old " in dase she married
lotd Guilford within'ttiree years.from his death."- The marrlage 'did not take place, though there was no fault on the
part of the. devisee. The marriage was held to be a condition
VOL. IIL-2 U

suPIEmE- COURT.
[Finlay et al. vs. King's Lessee.]

precedent. Lord chief justice Treby, in delivering the opinion of the court, says, ".that the defendant Elizabeth's b&ing willing and consenting, or endeavouring to bring about
.the marriage, could bot be of any avail or moment in this
case ; for thattho -will was formed not on the endeavours or
agreement of the parties to marry, but on the event. In
Acherley v§. Vernon, P. W. Rep. 783, the case in Vernon
is-referred to by lord Chief justice Wills, and considered by
him as settling the'law. The case before him involved the
same principle. The question was whether the performance
of an act required by the testator from his sisfer, was a conditio-4 precedent on which her title to a legacy depenided, or
whether the legacy'vested at her brothef~s death. It wagdecided that the act .being an obj6ct with the testator, and
desired by him, was the consideration of the legacy,'and
therefore a condition precedent.
A great variety-9f authorities might be cited, all tending
to establishing the same principle. It is-sufficient to 'refer
the court to the following: Creagh vs. Wilson,2 Vernon,
572. Elton v. -Elton, 1 Ves. Sen. 4. Gillet v3. Wray, L
P. Williams, 284. Graydon vs. Graydon, 2 Atkins, 16.
R eynish vs.'Martin, 3 Atkins, 333. Grascott vs. Warren, 12
-Modern, 128. Harvey &. Wife' vs. Aston, 1. Atkins- 361
Randal Ps. Payne, I Bron. Cha.Rep. 55, and-2 Atkins, 151.
2 -Powell on Devises, 252'" 2 Cruise, 20.
.The intention of the testator; that nothing should vest until the condition should be performed; is further manifest, as
the. will 'postpones all right of the devisee of the real estate
un'ti'the death of his wife.. She was'at the date of the will
not more than twenty-five years 'of age, and he- reasonably
supposed that a marriage such as he Wished'to efdect, would
take place before her death. In the mean time, the. legal
estate descended' to the heirs at law., who could hold it 'until the event .conteniplated by the testator, should happen.
Fearne on Remainder, 518, 516.. 2 Fonb- E q. 93;
It will probably be said that though -the intent of the
deVisee is postponed in terms until the death of fie testator's
wife, yet that it-ought to 'be c6nstrued, into an: iinmedi'ate
interest by implication. Such was" the opiii6n.of the court

JANITARY TERM 1830.
[Finlay et al. vs. King's Lessee.]

below. C6urts have sometimes allowed implications when
they are very apparent, in order to give effect to the intention of the testator.. But, they must be necessary, not
probable implications; for the title of the heir at law being
plain and obvious,.no words in a will ought to be construed
to defeat it, if they can have any other signification. Cruise,
title Devise, 205.
But the devise over shows in the strongest. light that the
testator -did not intend to part with the estate, unless -the
event which he sought to bring about should happen, He
directs that "in case such marriage should not take. place,
then I leave and bequeath the Said estate to any child of the
said William and Rachel Trigg, that Will marry d child of
brother James King or of sister Elizabeth." It is immaterial whether the devise could take effect according to law,
or not; the testator th6ught in could, and intehded.--that
the estate should pass to others in the event mentioned in
his will. According to the pretensions of the defendant, it
never could pass, though the- eVent mentioned in the clause
referred to should happen' and though it should be decided
th.at the devise was within the legal limitation. For-the ground
on which he rests his claim (as is understobd) i§,.that on the
death of the testator he took a vested contifigent fee, which
would become absolute on the marriage with a daughter of
Williamo Trigg and Rachel his -wife; that as there never wasany such person, he could not perform the condition, and is
therefore absolved from it, and, holds the estate absqlutely. If
then a son of William Trigg and Rachel-his wife, had intermarried with a daughter of James King or Elizabeth-Mitehell,
the defendant would have kept the estate against the express intention-of the testator. This cannot be law, because
it is contrary to alr reason. It would be sporting with-the
right which the law guarantees to the citizen to dispose of
'his property to whom and on what condition he pleases, so

that he violates no established rule of public policy.
But it is contendedi that, if the estate vested in the defendant at the death of the testator, that all right inl him became extinguished on the death -of William Trigg. That
event.placed it-beyond all doubt; that such a niariiage as the

'SUPREME' COURT.
[Finlay et al. vs. King2s Lessee.]

testator. wished to promote, could not take place. As to the
defendant, therefore, his title ceased with the possibility of
hi§ 6ecominginstrumental in uniting the two families.
But it will be contended, that, if the marriage of William
King with a daughter. of William-. and Rachel Trigg is a
condition 'subsequent, then the estate is discharged from the
condition;, it being impossible to perform it; the correctness
of.-the conclusion is not admitted.
If the testator's primary legal. object was the union of'the
two families, and if he devised the estate to the defendant, on
condition tliat he should become instrumental in effecting
that object; it is immaterial whether the condition is.precedent or subsequent, or whether the failure tb accomplish the
purpose desired, is owing to -one cause or another. The
question still ,recurs, did the testator intend that his nephew
shot ld have his whole estate, whether the marriage ,prescribed'should take place or not, provided the failure was
not attributable to him . Suppose the testator had declared
that on his death his nephew should have his whole estate,
in feet on conditiori that he married,.a daughter of William
and -Rachel Trigg; but. that.whenever it was aseertitined
that such marriage-could not take place, from any cause
whatever, that all his right should cease, and that the estate
should go to such person as is actually designated in th6
will. Could it be seriously argued that the impossibility of
such a marriage, on the part of the defendant, would render
the estate absolute in him,, against the express intention of
the testator! It is believed it could not: and yet this is the
very case before- the court, if'the .defendant had a vested
interest at the death of the testator.
The argument that the defendant acquired an absolute estate, whenever it became impossible to perform the condition
of the devise on his part, has no other support except the idea
that the devise over was intended as a penalty on himfor not
doing what the testator desired, and that there can be no penalty when there is no fault. This is a perversion of the obvious meaning of the will. The testator was fully acquainted
with all the circumstances; he knew that William and Rachel
Trigg had no daughter, and consequently foresaw that it was

JANUARY TERM 1830.
vi. King's Lessee.]
[Finlay et.al.

possible that such a. marriage could not take place. In this
state of things, if he had intended that his hephew should,
have the estate, unless he was guilty ofa fault in disobeying
his wishes, would he not have restricted the devise even to
the occurrence of such fault'9. Would he not have indicated
that it was resistance or indifference to his-views, that shofild
take the estate from the party in fault, and place it qt the
disposal of. others. The testator never thought of any suchthing. 'He wished to efect,an objeotdear to his heart. If
that object was not effected, he cared notfor the cause,. Individual personal attachment had no share in the purpose.
The act which united the two families was the meritorious
and only consideration with him,
-In this view of the subject, it.is not material whether the
,condition was, at the date of the will, or afterwardi.became
impossible. . But if it was, it could be easily shown-that this
condition falls within neither of the classes mentioned-inthe books where performance isexcused: It was not a con-ditionimpossible-at.the date of the will.; on-the contrary,
it was quite probable -that William Trigg and Rachel his
wife, who. were- both .very y6ung, would have a daughter-to
.whom the defendant could be united in matrimony. An.
impossible condition, which is consilered as void, is of this
character ; that at the time 'it is.required to be performed,.
nothing short of a miracle could accomplish its performance..
It is laid down in 5 Viner's Abridgment, 111, that if the condition be that a person shall go to Rome in a day, it.
is impossible; but if the condition be that the Pope shall
be at Westminster to-morrow, this is not an impossible condition, though the event is highly improbable. -If a person
should be required .by a testator to qualify himself for and
take holy orders by the time he 9hould arrive at the age of
twenty-five year8, on the condition and consideration of a
legacy, and that the interest should be paid- to him in the
mean time, (which would make it a vested legacy), would it
be an excuse for the legatee to allege, that his intellect was
unequal to the attainment of the necessary learning and the
performance of the-ecclesiastical functions, and that therefore it was an impossible condition 9 Most assuredly not.

SUPREME, COURT.
"[Finlay et al. vs. Xing's Lessee.]

This is not a condition which became impossible .after .the
death of the testator, the non-performance of which will be
excused' Those conditions belong to cases where all the
means to akcomplish-the testator's purpose are in his view
and in being; :but when subsequent events change the existirig state: of. things so essentially- as to render the performance- impossible, for instance,, if adevisebe made on condition that the devisee consent to marry a particular person,
and that person dies, the performance is rendered impossible
by the happening of an event subsequently, which, the. testator never contemplated; and-where the estate had prei'iously vested it, will become absolute by the death of' srch
person..
The leading case f6r the defendant, and. which will be
doubtless relied -upon is the case of. Thomas vs. Howell,
4 Mod. 'Rep. 66. But that'case is essentially different from
the one before this court. There the testator devised to his
daughter Jane an estate called Lawhorn, on condition. that
sh.e,'at or before the age. of twenty-one years, "do consent" to marry Theophilus Thomas, who was the testator's
nephew. Then he'devised other estates to his two remaining daughters, and ihen follows this .proviso.: "And my
wilI is, that- in case my daughter Jane shall refuse to consent
to marry my nephew Theophilus Thomas, at or before she
shall be of the age of twenty-one years, or in the mean time
shall marry another person, the devise shall be'void." He
proceeds to devise Lawhorn to his other daughters in succession, on the same condition; and thern adds, "but in case
neither'of my said daughters marry my said nephew, then
the estate given them in Lawhorn shall be void;" and devises the estate over to trustees.
Theophilus Thomas died af the age of twelve years; Jane
never refused to marry him, and after his death, at the age
of seventeen, married another person.. She had entered on
Lawhorn on the death of her father, and the quesdonr was,
whether the estate was divested, the contemplated marriage
never having taen effect.
Three judges to one were of opinion, that'under the first
proviso to divest the estate, Jane must have "refused to con-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Finlay et al. ts.King7s Lessee.]

sent" to marry Theophilus Thomas ; that what followed in
the subsequent clause had reference to' the-same proviso, and
oightnot to be taken in a larger sense than the proviso itself;
and upon this ground decided' that the estate of Jane was absolute.
This ease, instead of being an authority for the defendant,
bears str6ngly against his pretensions. It shows that the
court decided the case on the pr6viso, which made the iefural of Jane t6 i, consent to marry" Theophilus' Thomas
the basis on which the devise over should take effect. And
then arises an irresistible imp!:..ation from the opinion of the
court, that if the case had rested on the last clause, the
estate would have gone to the trustees..
Toestablish that, in the ' case now before the cqurt, the
defendant acquired a title which can be defeated only by his
voluntary default, wbuld overthrow the principle well established in many cases of conditional devises and limitations.
For example: A testator devise4 to A. an estate for the term
of thirty yearg, and if at the end of the term he has a child
living, to A. in fee, but if he should have no child living; ihen
to B. It might not be the fault of A. that he had no child
living -t the end of the term, and yet it has never been questtioned that B. would take the estate.
Again: suppose a case, which is very common. A testator devises an estate to A. and his heirs ;but if A. shall'die
without issue living at his death, then to B. and his heirs;
would the heir at law of A. be p6rmitted, to.keep the estate
on the ground that his ancestor'had committed no fault, and
that therefore the estate became absolute I Such a defence
has never been offered.
It is contended, in* the second place, that the defendant
.has no title-if we regard the devise as a trust.
There is nothing'in this case which authorizes the belief,
that the testator had any personalpredilection for the defendant. He mentions him as the son of his brother James King;
but there is nothing peculiar in that, as he likewise refers,
and with the same view, to all the other children of James
King, and those -of his sister Elizabeth. If we confine ourselves to the words employed, all idea of any beneficial in-

360

SUPREME COURT.
[Fin'lay et si. vs. KMng's Lessee.]

terest being intended for William King,-is excluded. He is
to take the estate on condition that a certain marriage.shall
take efT'ect; but it is "in trust for the eldest son or issue of
the said marriage."' If we regard the union of the two families as the great object which the testator sought to bring
about; then those in 'whom should be united the blood of
both, must have been- the objects of his peculiar favour.
The testator probably thought that a person not in Being
could not take the estate, unless it was through the instrumentality of a trustee. H& regarded, his nephew merely as
a conduit, through whom his bounty should flow to those
whom he considered as pre-eminent; -because they would
inherit the blood ofboth families.
If the 'devise is to be considered as a trust, then the question arises whether any trust interest vested on the 'death
of the testator, or whether it was-to'arise when the marriage
took'effect. No immediate interest is expressly devised.;
on the contrary,. the words used are, "'at. the death of my
wife." Tfiere is no reason to support an immediate intereft
by implication,.because there was no necessity for it; as the
beneficial interest could not vest, until those who were to enjoy it would come into existence. Besides, the statute of uses
makes a devise to A. to the use of B. the same as a devise to
B. so that this devise is in point of'law to "the eldest-son
or issue of the marriage." The doctrine is well established
that in such a case the legal title descends to the heir at law,
and remains until the birth of the issue, when it vests in
him. In this ease, there being no possibility of any such.
issue, the title in'the heirs at law is no longer in. trust for the
purposes of the will, but is'absolute in themselves.
But admitting, for argument sake, that the trust vested on
the death of the testator;it is urged, that whenever the possibility of a marriage between the testator's nephew and a
daughter of William and Rachel Trigg became extinct, the
trust terminated.
The purpose of such a trust is, that the trustee holds the
estate for the sole and exclusive benefit of those who are to
be beneficially interested; but if no such person' shall be
br6ught into existence, then the testator has not disposed of

JANUARY TERi-1830.

361

[Finlay et at. vs King's Leskee.]

the estate: because he has never .contemplated such a state
of facts. No person ever doubted, that if the testator had
given the estate to the eldest son of William King, when he
should be born, and William .king should never have a son,
that.the estate would go to the heirs at law of the testator.
Whatever manifestations might appear to show. that the
testator did not intend to die intestate, sueli manifestations
never have any other effect 'than to aid a court: where the
donation of.an-estate is in question, or when it is doubtful
What property a general description includes. But to give
to a'naked trustee the absolute title to an estate, merely because the person for whom the beneficial interest was irk.tended has not been born, and because the testator did not
intend.to die intestate,. is not supportedby reason or authority; on the contrary,. it is considered, that the titleof the
heir'at law will always be supported, unless the devisee -can
show a .clearintention against him.
The doctrine of resulting irusts is peculiarly applicable to
this part of the case. It is well settled"- that wherever the
purposes ot a trust have beew satisfied, or cannot be executed, that the estate reverts to the heir at law.' 3 P. Williams, 20, 252. 1 Saunders on Uses and Trusts, 164. 1
Brown's Ch. Cases, 508, 60, note. 4 Brown's Ch. Oases,
4n9.
Mr Smyth and Mr Webster, for the defendant in error.
In this case three questions are presenied for consideration.
1. Whether is the condition on which the real estate is
given to William King, precedent or subsequent '.
2. Supposing it to be subsequent, when'does the estate
vest-in pdssession in William King!
3. What is the naiure of the estate when vested .
1. We admit, that if a condition preqedent becomes impossible, the estate will never arise; and equity will not
relieve: But we contend that if a c*ondition subsequent becomes impossible, the estate will not be defeated, or forfeited.
2 BI. Com. 156, 157. 7 Co. Litt. 206, a, b. 2 Vern. 339.
Powel on. Contracts, 266. 2 Atk. 18. 2 P. Williams, 626,
627. Powel on Devises, 262.
VOL. III.-2 V

SUPREME COURT.
-[Finlay et al. vs. King's Lessee.]

The same words make a condition precedent or subsequent, according to the intent of the person who creates it.
Willes, 156. 2 Bos. & Pul. 295. 1 Durnt. and East, 645.
2 Caines, 352. Powel on Devises, 183. Cases T. T. 166.
Whether the condition is .precedent or subsequent, depends on the order of time in which the intent of the testator
requires the performance. Willes, 157. 2 Bos. & Pil. 297.

Justice Heath said, "The question always is, whether the
thing is to happen before or after the estate is

tu

vest!

If

before, the condition is precedent; if after, it is subsequent."
In the case before the court, the intention of the testator
is clear, that William King should have the whole estate on
the death of Mrs King. Mrs King might have died within
a year after the death of the testator; yet the daughter of
William Trigg and Rachel his wife, whom William King
was required to marry, might have been born twenty years
afterwards, and- the marriage might have taken place at the
end of forty years more. It could not have happened in less
than thirteen years, and might have happened more than
sixty years after the death of the testator. Clearly, the testator intended, that under those circumstances, the marriage
might'be subsequerit tc the vesting of the estate.
Unlass the intent of the testator required that the devisee
should, before the death of Mrs King, marry a female who
was unborn at the time he made his will, and at the time of
his- death, this cannot be a condition precedent. Why should
it have made any difference to the testator, whether the
marriage happened before or after the death of Mrs King!
A condition is precedent or subsequent, as the act is to be
done before or after the estate vests. This act, the marriage, was not necessarily to be done before the whole estate
should vest in possession. A condition which might be complied with sixty years after the time prescribed for vesting
the whole estate in possession, must be a subsequent condition. If the act may as well be done after as before the
vesting of the estate, the condition is subsequent. All conditions in wills are either precedent or subsequent. A condition which may be performed either before or after, is not a
precedent condition, and therefore is a condition subsequent.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Finlay et al. vs. King's Lessee.)

The testator says, "I then leave all my real estate, at the
death of my wife, to William King, son of brother James
King, on condition of his marrying," &c. The whole estate
must vest in-possession at the death of Mrs King.. But William King, wh& was three years old when the will was made,
had his whole life to perform the condition. A marriage
after the death of Mrs King would be a fulfilment of the
condition, as well as a marriage before her death.. Therefore it is a condition-subsequent; and being impossible, the
estate will not be defeated or forfeited. 2 Atk. 18. Cases
T. T. 164, 166. 2 P. Wins, 626. Pow. Dev. 257, 258. 1
S ilk."170. 4 Mod. 68. - Rice vs. Aislabie, 3 Madd.-256, 260.
There are some cases reported which, at first view, may
seem adverse to us; but which, on examination, will be found
to differ essentially from our case. In the case of Bertie vs.
Falkland(a), the condition was adjudged to be precedent.
There was a devise to trustees for thee years, and -if there
was a marriage in three years the estate was to vest. There
the marriage was obviously a condition precedent; for it
was to take effect in three year4, and-the- estate, being in
trustees, was not to vest- until the termination of the three
years. So where there was -a settlement in. trust, that if A.
marries B. after the age of sixteen, and they have issue mali,
the estate shall be to A. and B. for themselves; the condition is precedent : for the estata is express]y given to trustees, until the marriage andthe birth of issue, 2 Vern. 383.
Cow. big. Conditioni B. 1, pl. 10.
9. When does the estate vest in possession of William
King, -the lessor of the defendant in error '.
-We contend, that all the estate, of William King, the
testator, is devised by the will. If all is devised by the will,
the right of possession of the real estate, from the death of
the testator to the death of Mrs King, is devised. It is not
devised to Mrs King by implication. T he real estate is devised to William King ;- therefore he takes the right of pos(a) A note in a late edition of Freeman's Reports, p 86, says, tis decision war
reversed in the house of lords.

-SUPREME COURT.
[Finlay et al. vs. King's Lessei.]

session during the life of Mrs King, unless it is devised to
some other person.
We contend that, as to all the lands of William King the
testator; except the dower of Mrs King, the saltworks, and
those lands devised to Mrs King, to Thomas King, and to
the Academy; the estate passed to William King the devisee, immediately on the testator's death.
Did the testator intend his hundred tracts- of land, and
thirty or forty town lots, should descend to his heir until
the death of his wife ? We insist that the testator did not
intend that hif lands should descend to his heir for a rnoment. The heir shall not take, where, from the will,.the intention of the testator that he shall not take appears. The
limitation over, although supposed' not to be a good one,
shows the determination of the testator to defeat the claim
ofthis h6ir. I Dall. 227.
If the estate does .not pass immediately to William King,
there must be either a life estat6 by implication, or a descent
td the heir, during the lif6 time of Mrs King. As MrsKing
has dower devised to her -in the whole of the lands, and a
life estate in a part of them, she cannot also take a life estate in Ahe residue by implication. She cannot claim a life
estate in parts, and also in the whole. Had William King,
the devisee, been the heir, and had there been no devise to
Mrs Kifig, this devise to him, " at the death of my wife,"
would have given to her an estate.for life, by implication.
4 Bac. Ab. 288. 2 Vern. 572, 723.
The father 'of the testator was, at the time of making'his
will, his heir presumptive. To him is devised, for life, the
use of a cbttage, and perhaps twenty acres :of land, as many
appes from: the orchard as he could eat, and an annuity of
.$200. After his death, this piece of land was to go to Mrs
King for her life. "This devise shows that the defendant.did
not intend that bis presumptive heir should take one hundred
plantationg, during the life of Mrs King. The testator manifestly expected his wife to outlive his father, and has spoken
as if that was beyond a doubt.
The testator intended to dispose of the whole of his'real

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Finlay eta]. vs. King's Lessee.]

estate.. He speaks of " the disposition of the real estaie ;"
and uses the expressions, "my worldly esiate/' "all my estate," "my whole.estate,"- "all my-real estate." Did the
testator inytend to die intestate as to his one hundred plantations./ and thirty or forty lots, during the life of Mrs King !.
He did not intend to die intestate as to any part of his
estate. He makes his will, "leaving and bequeathing my
worldly estate, in the manner following." .If after the use
of such words, a part of thie testator's, property was clearly
omitted, it is admitted that such part would not pass by:.the
will:; but if property is given by the will, these words will
signify that .all the testator's interest therein' is given.. Ca.
T. T.157, 160, 161. 3 P. .Wins,.395, 297, 298. 1 Wils.
333. 1 Vesey, 226. 1 Wash. 97, 107. 2, Binney, 17, 33..
1-Call, 132. .1 Munf. 543, 545.
In.the. case of Ibbetson vs. Beckwith, lord chancellorTalbot said, "I .am of opinion that these words (worldly estate)
prove him (the testator) to have had his whole estate in his
view, at that lime. Indeed he might have made but a parfial disposition ;. but if the will be general, and that taking
his words in-one sense will -make the will to be. a complete
disposition of the whole, whereas the taking. them in another
Will create a chiasm, they shall be taken in that sense which"
is most likely .to be -agreeable to his intent of disposing. of
his-whole estate."
"All my real estate," is descriptive of the duration ag
well as of the extent of the estate. Therefore it.includ6s
the right to possession, before the death of Mrs King; as
weU--as afteri izr those lands not devised to her or to others
during her.life. Salk. 236. 2 P. Wms, 524.- 1 Vesey, 228.
"Leaving and bequeathing my worldly estate," means the
same thing as if the testator had- said. "I intend to.give-by
this will every thing I have in the world." 3 Wils. ,43.
The testator having said this, devised the most valuable po.rtion -of his estate to his wife, and fo others, for her life.
Then he devised all .his real estate to his nephew, at the
death of his wife. To make this agree with his declaration,
that'he intended to givo by the will all he had in: the world,
this devise -must be so construed, that the devisee will take
immediately, on the testator's decease, that part of the estate

SUPREME COURT.
A s. King'a Lessee.].
[Finlay eta!.

which has not been devised to another, and that he shall
take, on the death of Mrs King that portion of the estate
which had been devised to her, and to -others, for her life.
He shall take it all then, because he cannot take it all
sooner.
Taken in connection with the introductory words, "all
my estate at the death of my wife," it is a devise of the whole
duration of the estate after the death of the testator;. but it
may by implication give it to Mrs King, during her liie.
Nowif it has been shown that the estate is not devised to
Mrs King by implication, as it is devised, it must go to
William King, the specific devisee.
"All my estate, at the death of my wife," carries the
whole, as well before as after her death; but if there was no
devise- to the wife, those words would divide the duration
the wife taking duriig her life, and the specific devisee
afterwaids. When the wife cannot take, these words must.
be otherwise satisfied. And if the specific devisee can take
only a part immediately, and, the residue at the death of
the wife; so that then he will take all, they are satisfied.
The intention of the testator is the polar star in construing wills. 4 Mod. 68. 1 Wash. 102. 1 .Munf. 537, 547.
2 S. C. Rep. 32., The court will execute the intention of
the testator, as far as they can. They will transpose the
words of a will to effectuate the intent of the. testator. Let
the word "all" be transposed, and-the clause made to read,
"I then leave and bequeath my real estate, all, at the death
of my wife, to William King." 1 Call, 132.
Nothing could be forther from the-intention of the testator than'the distribution Qf his estate, either to hi5 brothers
and sisters, or to his nephews and nieces. He intended that
all his real estate should .vest in one man, his eldest nephew,
of his own name, the son of his only brother,, of the Sfull
blood,* and in the eldest son or issue of that nephew. The
distributio4 woi~ld include Samuel King, or his children, tp
which half brothoer the testator grudgingly gave an annuity
of $I5o.
The question, when shall the estate vest'in possession,
is to be decided from the intention of the testator, as gather-.

JANUARY TERM 183o.o
.[Finlay et a]. vs. King's Lessee.]

ed from the whole will. I Doug. 342. The testator intended
that his hteir or heirs should not have hi's Vintations. To
•take the estate from the heir, during the life of Mrs King,
requires, a necessary implication ; and such an implication
is here. 4Bac. Abr, 282. 2 Vent. 571. 1 Dall. 227. The
,levise to Thomas King, the presumptive heir at the time
of making the will, of a house and a few acres of land for
life, remainder to Mrs King during her life, is inconsistent
with his iaking thte large real estate of William King, and a
necessary implication that he is not. to take it, during Mrs
King's life.
The c6unsel on the other side has said in argument, that
Thomas King, the fathei of the testator, was an alien. That
is going out of the 'record, by which.it appears that the testator considered his father capable to take-a freehold, and
that he was in fact a proprietor of real estate. It has never
been shown that Thomas King kiias 'an alien; and, from information, it is probable that he never was an alien in the
United States.
Either the heir or -the devisee must take; for the testator
cannot put the freehold in abeyance. I Doug. 231.
If the condition of marriage is subsequent, which we deem
proven, there is no reason for postponing the commencement of the estate of William King the devisee, in possession, of the real estate not devised for the life of Mrs King.
If the estate is given on a condition subsequent, why may
not the estate, except what is devised to Mrs King and
,others, vest in possession immediately on the testator's death!
To What 'end suspend ; . when it is not to wait for the performance of the condition .
These words, "at the death of my wife," were inserted
in consideration of the devise of e use of the saltworks
during her-life, the devise of dower, and the devise of cer.tain portions of the real estate, during her life. These words
have their effect; because'a large part of the estate, far the
most valuable, cannot, consistently with other clauses inthe
will, come to the possession of the devisee, William King,
until Mrs King's death.
Suppose that a testator had made his will thus: to A. my

SUPREXE COURT,
EFinlay et a. vs. King's Lessee.]

father, who is. seventy years old, during his. lite, one-threehundredth-'part of my real. estate; to B. my wife, who is
twenty years old, during her life, one half of my realestate,
including the part devised to my.father, after his-death ; to
C. -my nephew; the whole of. my real. estate at the death of
my wife; the testator. dies, the father, who is heir, surviving. Would a court give to.A. the father, and his heirs, half
the real estate, during the' life of B. thewidow, when the
testatori blearly intended aid expressed that A, should havb
only on e, three-hundredth part for his own life! Certainly
they. would not. In such a case, the words, "'at -the' death
of 'my wife," would be applicable to the moiety devised to
her -forlife.. The death of the father before the testator, in
this.,case, -cannot change-the meatiig ok the will.
All.the-real estpte could not .vest in possession of William King, the devisee, at the death of the testator : but All
is devised'to him,: therefore the, words, .'' at the. death'of my
wife;" are used; as then, and not till~then, all-might'vest" in
posse sion.
. Should the testator be regdrded as having died intestate,
as to iis lands not devised to Mrs King, until her decease,

they would have descended' to, his brotlierq and sisters, his
father having died. before him,; andlit is appareht that he did
not intend that- those brothers and sisters 'should take his
real estate, during the life of.'NMrs King.
To James King he gives the -tise of one. third part' of the
saltworks during the life of Mrs King; say $10000 annuallyl
to Samuel King,.an annuity of. $150.; and. to Hannah Allen,a legacy of $1000; thus. giving.'to -James '1King. sixty:six
times as much as to Samuel King, and more than two hundred times as much as to Hannah Allen: but if 'his.'planta-;
tions are distributed during The'-life ofMrs King, then Sap.uel
King and Hannah. Allen .will have a part equaltothat of
James King, although they stood- so unequally.in the affections of the testat6r as objects 'of his bounty... It seems manifest that he did -not,intend that his great estate in- lands
"sjould pass 'to, and be distributed, aiong his brothers and
sisters, during the life qf Mrs King.
Unless the will is construed to give to William King, ira-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Finlay et al. vs. ing' tLessee.]

mediately, 'the lands, other than those devised during Mrs
King's life, the marriage .intended might have taken place
within fifteen years from the testator's death, and the issue
of.the favourite nephew, the desired famiily of King's, might'
have been without a maintenance for the period of forty
years; as.Mrs King, who was twenty-four years old at the
death of the testator, might have so long lived ; while one
hundred' plantations and thirty or forty town lots woAld be
-in thepossession of the heirs. This cannot have been the
intentidn of the testator. 2 P. Williams, 627.
It may be proper to noiice' the very imperfect manner in
which the testator expressed himself in this willi for want of
legal knowledge. He devises the use of -his- capital; that
has been construed to be a bequest of his capital. He requests that his executors and his wife Will carry ou his saltworks business, in copartnership; that has been construed
a devise of the saltworks. He devises $10,000 to two'of
his nieces; 'that has been construed a devise of $10,000 to
each of them. To give effect to the intention of this testator, requires the liberal aid of the courts.
3. What is the nature of the estate of William King, the
devisee, when vestedq
If the condition is subsequent, the devisee bas his life time
to perform it, before he forfeits-; even where performance is
impossible. And if it becomes imp6ssible, without his default, or never becomes possible, we contend that he will never forfeit. Had Mrs King died within a year after the death
.of the testator, the whole real estate would have vested in
William King, in possession, although the daughter of Wil-.
liam Trigg was unborn. The devi-ee would have -his life
time to perform the condition, even if William Trigg had
ten daughters. Even if William King had stood by and
seen those ten daughters all married, he would have time to
perform; for he might marry one of "them when a widow.
Should he even marry another woman, he would still 'have
time to perform ; for he might when a widower perform'the
condition.
An impossible condition is the same as none. It is void,
and there can be no breach. :It is impossible that there
VOL. III.-2 W

SUPREME COURT.
.[Viplay et al. us. King's Lessee.]

should be-such a marriage as the testator desired: therefore
the devisee takes and holds as if.theie was marriage; or ratier, as if there was no condition, for the condition is void.
The counsel on the other side contended that this was not
an impossible condition ; for that it .Was probable the mar-

riage might be had. The law says nothing of probable'conditiofis, And it is-asked, what is more impossible'than to
marry a person who- never came, and never can come, into.
existence '.
If it is impossible to do a thing, no one can be under any
obligation to do it. The condition was not- possible wben
made, aridnever' became possible ; and being subsequent)
the estate is'absolute. -If the condition had been possible
when the will was. made, and afterwards became impossible
by the act of God, without the default. 6f the devisee, the
estate would also be absolute. 2 P. Wins, 628. Com. Dig&.
Condition, D. I, pl. 4. . Pow. Cori, 265,,
Hid' a daughter been born to William Trigg, and had the
marriage taken.place, William King Would have taken-the
profiis,withint having issue. There is nodevise over, in the
eyent of. hot having -issue. The application of the profits
to-the use of:such issue; would have'bebn another impossible -condition therefore he would :keep the profits, and hold
the legal 'state discharged fom the trust, the performance
of which wta impossible.
If-the-condition is~subsequent,anl impossible, and the application of the profits3 as'directed, also impossible; then the
estatejdist b)e -hefd,discharged.of -the condition, and exonerated from a-trust 'which, cannot .- e'perf6rmed. When theimpossible condition is stricken out of the. will, the, trust to
arise: thereon goes. b.ut with it. The devise is -to William
ling, sibject to an impossible con.dition, an impossible executory trust, and, a-:void: limitation; yet the' legal cstate
remains in-hini. Heis devisee in fee,' on. a void condition.
The whote condiiion beinIg void, every part of it is void.
We contend that William kin.the-devisee, takes behefcially, and keeps the profits- The devise is unquestionably
a- beneficial- one ;-for, in.one'vent,,that of m'arriage and having n6 issup, the .estate is' not deyised over, -an& the. profits
-

JANUTARY -TERM 1830.

371

[Finlay et aL. vs. King's Lesse e.]
w6uld. belong, to- the. devisee. Why should. the profits:be
taken from the devisee 9. There ard none. who geera better
entitled under the will. This is the only devise made by the
testator to his favourite nephew; the-' eldest.son of his onlybrother of tie full -blood, 'and the-heir of his name. -The testator. was obviously attached to the principle of primogenituref and paid great regard to-names.- To -two'of his
nieces he .gave $10;000- each, because' they were -named
after his grandmother. Did he mean to give nothing ti> the
nephew who bo.re his own.name!. -He cannot have intended.
that his favoiirite 'nephew should bd a mere trusteefor his,
the-testator's heirs; in any event, entitledonly to.commissions,
on'.-his receipts. .Did he "meant to devise to his favourite
nephew -trouble, and nothing -more,'on condition- that -he
would narry the daughter of his favonrito brother-in-law a d
niece T
A consideration-was - requiired- of him :. marriage. -He.is'
therefore entitled to. the estate on the condition'imp6sed,
ifWperformance shall be possible,:and on no- other.condition;
to take the profits for ,his-children if such there be-,'and if
not, for his. own use.. This consideration shows. that,.,had
the marriage iaken effect, the'devisee could not have', been
regarded, as a mere trusteb. Here is also the consideration
of nearness of blood, which is pten decisive of the qu'estiQi,
whether a devisee takes beneficially, o'r as a mere trustee.
See Loyd vs. Spilletj 2 Atk.'1 5.0, and Hobart vs. The Countess
of Suffolk, 2 Ye'rn. 645.
Will the estate determine on the 'death -ofWill iam King
the devisee, in consequence of-his. not performing the- condition ?
The words of the devise convey a feesimple; and he
takes a fee simple, if he. takes at all. What would b, the
construction of the will,, should the void clause be stricken'
out? That it 'conveys dn absolute estate in fee simple.
Strike', outthe void clause, and the devise will read, "-In
case of having. no 'children, I then leave ard bequeath -all
my real- estate, at the death of my wife; to.William King,
son of.brother. James King?'Thefailureof issue is not made a condition.on-which the'

SUPREME COURT.
[Finlay et al. vs. King's Lessee.]

estate shall pass over. Consequently the devisee would take
the estate and profits, after marriage, without issue. And
we contend, that as soon as the estate vests in possession, he

will take the profits without marriage, the condition being
.subsequent and impossible. It is a devise to him in fee simpie ; and there are none to whom the profits are, directed to
be paid. A beneficial devise to him was intended, and
there is no implication in favour of the heirs.
The important question is, "does the legal estate pass by
the devise 1" If so, there is no trust for the heirs. The heir
is entitled.to the real estate not given to another : but here
all the real estate is given from the heir. The estate is devised over, on failure to perform the condition. A question
may yet arise, whether that devise over is good. Whether
that.devise is good or not, we, contend that we have a right
to recover. The heir cannot .prevail, unless it is decided
that the devise to William King, and the devise over, are
both void.
There is a class of cases which have some analogy to that
before the court; -although they- are essentially different
from it. The cases referred to are those wherein a question
has arisen between the heir, and- executor, the. heir and next
of kin, or the heir and devisee ; whether there is, or is n 6 t a
resulting trust for the heir.
Where lands are devised to 6e sold for payment of debts
and legaciies, or in trust for the payment of debts and legacies, and the devisee or executor is a stranger, or. has a
legacy, and there is a residue; there is a resulting trust for
the heir, especially if there is nothing given to him by the
will. In this case the devisee is'no stranger,.he has'no legacy, and there' is no residue. 1 P. Wms, 309i 2 Atk.
150.' 2 Vern. 644. 1 Meriv. 301.
But if it appears from-the' will ihat a beneift wa. designed
•for the executor or devisce, being a relation, and.especially
where the heir has some other -benefit from the will ;.there
will be no resulting trust for the heir, although. there is.a.
residue. In this case the devisee is a relati6n : a benefit is
intended him, and the heirs are provided for 'by - the will,
.See Rodgers vs. Rodgers, 3 P. Wins, 193. . North'vs.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
Finlay et al. es. King's Lessee.]

Crompton,1 Cha. Ca. 196. Coningham vs. Melishi I Eq.
Ca. Abr. 273, or Prec. Cha. 31. Malabar vs. Malabar,,Ca.
T. T. 78,'in which case the devise %as in trust, yet there
was no resulting .trust.for the heir. Hill vs. -The Bishop of
London, "1Atk. 618, 619, 6 0. Smith vs. King, 16 East, 282.
.Kennell.vs. Abbot, 4 Ves. 6.
The rule, that an heir, takixg a benefit by the .will, cannot have a resulting trust, would exclude the heirs of William
King the testator; as not.only the presumptive heir at the
time.of4making.the will, but also those Who Were heirs at
the time of his decease; every one, of them tzike beniefits by
the will.
Wherever there is aconsideration, there can be no resulting trust.. 7 Bac; Abr. 143. Here marriage wasrequirea;
and the devisee might have waited twenty years to perform
the condition. Had a daughter been born to William Trigg,
when William King was twenty-:five, years of age, and had
he waited for her fifteen years, and she had died,. surely *his
claim would-have been strong; yet it would hove been no
better than it now is;. because the -words and meaning of
the will would have been the same. If in that case.the
claim of the devisee would have been good, it ig good in
this case.
This case is not like that ofa devise upon trust to pay
debts and legacies (1 Meriv. 30L), for in such a case, there
may be a residue; but here the wholeestate is devised away,
upon condition, and, upon failure of that condition, devised
over. ' Thus no residue is left for the heir to claim. The
*trust-is of equal extent in point of duration with the legal
estate. No part of the trust remains undisposed of. It
would be difficult to express more clearly an intention that
the heir shall not take. The estate is devised in fee on
condition, and, on failure to perfbrm that condition, devised
over.
But.if the plaintiff is a mere trustee, he has a right to recover in ejectment. 2 Doug. 722. 5 East, 138.. 1 Schoales
& Lefroy, 67.
• A mere trustee may recover against him who claims the

-

SUPREME COURT.
[Finlay et a]. vs. King's Lessee.]

benefit of the trust, where the right; is not clear. 4.Bos. &

Pull. 17l.
It is hoped that the opinion of the court will elucidate
and ascertain the rights of all parties claiming -the real estate
qf the testator; as they know not certainly to what they are
entitled.
Mr Chief Justice MARSY1ALL delivered the -opinion,of the
Court.
This is a writ ' of error brought to a judgment rendered in
an ejeetment by the court of.the United States, for the western district of Virginia. Thejudgment was pronounced on
a case agreed. Three. questions have -been made at the bar:
41. Is the condition on.which the testator -has devised his
real-estate in trust to William King, a condition precedent
or subsequent .
2. If subsequent, at what time does the -estate vest in possession q
3. What-is the nature of the estate, when vested!
1. Is the conditi6n precedent.or subsequent!'
The %yords.ofthe will are; ", In case of' hving no children,
I then leave and bequeath:all my real estate.-at the death of
my wife to William King, .son of brother James King, on condition of'his marrying a daughter. of William Trigg and my
niece Rachel hi wife,-lately Rachel Finlay, in trust for theeldest s-on" or issue of said marriage, and~in case such mar-.
riage shbould not take place, I leave and bequeath said estate
to any child,.giving preference to age, of William and Rachel.
Trigg that will marry a child bf-my brother James King's, or
of sister Elizabeth's, wife-of John Mitchel, and to their issue."
Itwas'admitted in argument, and is certainly well settled(a),
that there are-no.technical. appropriate words which always
determine whether-a devise, be on a condition-precedent or
sub.sequent. The.same words have b.een determ.ined differently; and- the question is'always a question of intention. If
the. language .of the particular clause, or of the whole will,
(a) Willis, 156.. 2 Bos. & Pul. 295.

1 D. & E. 645.

JANUARY TERM 1830.

375

[FitIky et a]. vs. King's Lessee.j

shows that.the act -'on-which the state dependsi must "be
performed before the estate can vest, the 'chndition is' of
courseoprecedent; and unles it be performed., 'the devisee
can 'take nothing.: If, on the contrary, the act'does not niecessarily, precede the vesting 'bf the estate,.- but may,accompdny. or follow it, if this 'is .to be collected from thd whole
will, the-condition is shbsequent.
In the case under cqnsideration; the testator- does not. in
terms give his.real estate'to William King on his mhrrying.
the .daughter of-William and Rachel Trigg, but at the.death
of his, 'the testator's wife, 'on' condition of his 'marrying a
daughter of William and Rachel Trigg. ,Whatever doubt
may'be entertaine respecting the lands 'not given to the
wife for life, the tstator has-expressed -clearly hi's intention,
that. the:lands encumbered' with his. wife's life estate should
come to -the possession of William Kfrig at her death. He
gives, the estaie at that time, without requiring that the .condition annexed to it 'should le.'previbusly performed. The
estate "then vests ..in" possqssibn, whether 'the condition' on.
which it was- to.depend. be or be-not performedl. It cannot
be supposea to have 'been his 'intention that the devisee
should take pdssession under this devise, before the interest
vested in him. The interest, therefore, .must have vested
pre'vibusy,or at'the time. The language of: ther testator
does, not indicate-'the-intenfion:that the marriage must, take
place during the life of hi§ wife; nor do.the circumstances
of the-parti'es justify us in imputing such" an.intention to him. The time of her death was .uncertani and it"inight follow
close upoh his-own. . The-contemplated marriage could not
possibly take place until the lapse of many years, because
one.'of the parties -had not come into existence. William
and Rachel. Trigg had not at the time, and never have had,
a daughter. The iestator therefore has fixed a time when
the estate is to vest, wihich might probably'precede the hap.pening of the event on which its continuance is to depend.
This is clearly a condition .subsequent,. as to thosb lands -in
which an estate for life is giiren to the wife of the testator.
Does -any reason exist which will' authorise a distinction
between those lands in which the wife took a life estate, and

SUPREME COURT.
[Finlay et al. vs. King's -Lessee.]

those of which no other present disposition is. made in the
will!.

The testator makes no distinction. In one clause te gives..
"his whole real estate at the death of his wife to William
King, son of his brother James King, on condition," &c. If,
as the language would seem to indicatei the devisee was entitled to possession of the whole-property at the same time,
that is, at the death of the testator's wife,.- it would follow
that the condition on which the.whole depends is a condition.
subsequent. If the.devise should be construed, as the de-.
fendant in error contends, to give William King a right to
the immediate possession of that part of the estate.of which
no other disposition is made, does this circumstance furnish
any -reason for the opinion, that this part of the state depends
on a condition precedent .1 We think not. The will might
then be. construed as if it were expressed thus: " in case of.
having no-children, I then leave and bequeath -all my real
estate, subject to the devise to my wife f9r life, to William
King, son of my -brother James King, on condition of his
marrying," &c. This is the most unfavourable manner for the
defendant in error in Which the question can be presented.
It waives the benefit derived fromfixing a time for the pos-,
session of a considerable part of-the estate, which might
.very probably precede- the event on which its continuance is'
made to depend. Had even this been the language of the
will, the estate in the 'lands would, we think, depend on a
'condition subsequent..
It is-a general rule, that a devise in words of the present
'time, as I give to A. my lands in B. imports, if no contrary
intent appears, an immediate interest which vests in 'the
devisee on the death of the testator. It is also a ,general
rule, that-if an estate be given on a condition, for the performance of which no time is limited, the devisee has his
life for -performance. The result of those two principles
seems to be, that a devise to A., on condition that he shall
marty B.,. if uncontrolled by other words, takes effect immediately ; and the devisee performs the condition, if he
marry B. at any time during his life. The condition is subsequent. We have found no case in which a genbrat devise

JANUARY TERM 1830.

377

[Finlay et al. us. King's Lessee.]

-in words. importing a present interest in a will, making no
other disposi'tion of the property, on a condition which may
be performed at any time, has been construed from the mere
circumstance that the estate is given on condition, io require
that the condition must be performed before the estate can
vest. There are many cases in which the contrary principle
has been-decided(a). We think then that the condition on
which the devise. to William King depended,,was a condition
subsequent.
•.2. The second point is- one of more difficulty. Does that
part of the real estate which is not otherivise expressly disposed of, vest in William" King immediately, or at the death
of the testator's wife 9.
The words are, "in case of having no children, I then
leave and bequeath all my real estate, at the death of my
wife, to William King, son of brother James King, on conditiofi," &c.
These words certainly import that the whole.estate should
vest in possession at the same time, anci mark with precision
when that .time'shall be. This express provision can be
controlled- only by a strong and manifest intent, to be collected from the whole will. But the intent of the testator
* is the cardinal rule in the construction of wills; and if that
intent can be clearly perceived, and is not contrary to some
positive rule of law, it must prevail; although iri giving effect
to it some words should be. rejected, or so restrained in their
application, as materially to change the literal .meaning of
the particular sentence.
The counsel for the defendant in error insists that the intent to give the real estate not otherwise disposed- of immediately to William King, is apparent on the face of the
will, and must control the construction of .-the clause under
consideration. This proposition has been so fully discussed
at the.bar, that the court'need--only restate the principles
which have been already advanced in the argument.
(a) 2 Atk. 18. Cases T. T. 164,1 66. 2 P. Wins, 626. .2 Po . dn Dev. 257.
1 Salk. 170. 4"Mod. 68. 2 Salk. 570,

VOL. III.-2 X

SUPREME COURT..
.[Finlay et a].
vs. King's Lessee.]

Of the immense estate left by the testator, about one ha|r
including her dower, was given to his wife and others for her
life. The residue was given to William King immediately,
on the trust mentioned in the will, or given by implication
to the testator's wife, or was permitted to descend to his heir
at law,.
As -he devise to William King was on a'condition subsequent, it may be construed, so far as respects he time-of
taking p.ossession, as if it had been conditional. The condition opposes no obstacle to his ,immediate possession, if the.
intent of the testator shall require that construction.
We will first consider the supposed implied devise to the
wife.
As William King was niot the heir of the testator, a devise
to him at, her death does not necessarily, imply an estate in
her'during life; and the will itself furnishes strong, reason for
rejecting this construction. His.wife, as might well be supposed, was first in his minas and was kept in mind throughout
.the will. He notices her legal right to dower, so as to avoid
a possible implication that what he gave her was in lieu of
dower, and to secure her from the necessity:of relinquishing
all interest in the estate .bequeathed to her as preliminary'to:"
claiming her dower. She claims her dower undei the will,
as she does the other large estate bequeathed to her. It is
not pr6bable that a person who was careful to notice even
that to which she would have been entitled under the law,
would have omitted totally a very large propdrt which she
could claim only -under the will. He even notices the remainder of a small property in the occupancy of his father;
and mentions his wife in many other parts of his will, in a
manner to add to the improbability -of his having totally
omitted her name, when a very large benefit was intended.
It seems to us to be contrary to reason and to the ordinary
rules of construction to intend, that a large estate is given
by an unnecessary implication to a wife who takes her dower
in the whole, and also a large -part by express words. We
think it very clear that there is no implicative devise to the
wife.
Does the property in question descend tQ the heir at law

JANUARY TERM 1830.

S79

[Finlay et a].
vs. King's Lessee.]

during the life of the wife '1 Was it the purpose of the testator to die intestate with respect to it until her death .1
We cannot think that such was his purpbse; or that hi
will authorizes the court to say so.
The introiductory clause indicates an intention to disgosi
of all his estate. He says, ".
I, William King, have thought
proper to make and ordain this to be my last will and testament, leaving and bequeathing my worldly estate in the
manner following." These words are entitled to considerable influence in a question of doubtful intent, in, a, case
where the property is given, and the question arises between
the heir and devisee respecting the interest'devised. The
words of the particular clause also carry the whole estate
from the heir, but they fix the death of the testator's .wife a!s
the time when the devisee shall be entitled to possession.
They are, "In case of having no children, I then'leave and
bequeath all my real estate, at the death of my wifp, to William King, son of. brother James King," &c.
Itis admitted that if this clause stood alone., unexplained
by other parts of the will, the real estate, not otherwise dis•posed of, would descendto the heir. The law gives to him
whatever is not given to *others. But if other provisions. in
the wil. show an intent that the legal title of the heir should
'not prevail, those other provisions'must be respectedin construing the instrument(a).
When the will was made, the testator's father was alive,
and was consequently to be considered as his heir. He was
an old man; -and the provision made for hin seems to have
-contemplated only q comfortable supply for the wants of one
who had grownup and lived in simple unexpensive habits.
The testator gives him for life the houses in: which he then
resided, with so much -land as.he might choose to farm, what
fruit, he might want, and the spring house, subject to the direction of his*wifed; also the sum of $200 per annum during
his life ; and, if fire should destroy his Fincastle house a
(a) Cases, T. T. 157., 1 Coke, 1. 13 P. Wins, 295. 1 Wils. 8338. 1 Yes. 225.
1 Wash. 97;107. -1 Call. 132. *1 Munf. 143,145.-

SUPREME' COURT.
[Finlay et al. vs. King's Lessee.]

farther sum of $220 per annum, while his income from that
source should be'suspenided. This property is given to his
wife for life on the death of his father. These moderate provisions for the heir, contemplating ohly.the ease and comfortable suppl of the wants of-an old man,. comport very little
with the idea of leaving an immense estate, consisting among
other articles of numerous tracts of land, ie-ote from each
other, most probably of very difficult management, to descend to him. It is not probable that this estate would he
left to descend to hini f6r the life of Mrs King. Her surviving him was probable, and the testator expected she
would stirvive him. The -lands- devised to him are given to
her for life.
The -father, who was the presumptive heir when the will
was made, died during the life of the testator. This event.
is not supposed to affect the 'construction of the will.' But
were it otherwise; were it supposed that he might look forvard to that event, and contemplate his brothers and sisters
as his probable heirs,; he will furnishes arguments of great
weight ini support of the opinion, that he did not intend them
to take any thing not expressly devised to them. The heirs
of the testator, at the time of his death, were James King, a
bfother of the whole blood, Nancy Finlay, a sister of the
whole blood,'Elizabeth and Polly, the daughters of Elizabeth
Mitchel, a sister of the -whole blood, Samuel King, a brother
of the half blool, and Hannah Allen, a sister of the half
blood., Eadh of these persons is noticed- in the will. For
some of them, an ample provision is mhade.' To others, less
favour is- shown. The legacies to his brbther and sister of
the -half blood are inconsiderable;. while his bequests to
thos6 of the whole blood'are large. No one of them is omitted.- The circumstances that his mind was clearly directed
to each, and that he has carefully measured 6ut his bounty
to each, discriminating between • them s6 as to sh6w great
inequality of affection, operate powerfully a'gainst ihe ol~inion, that he intended to leave a, very large property 'to descend upon them by the silent operation of law.
The whole will proves the primary intention of the testator

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Finlay et al. vi. King's Lessee.]

to havebeen tokeep' his immense real estate together, and to
bestow this splendid gi.ft on some individual who should pro-'
ceed'from the union of his own family with.tbat of his wife. In
case of having no children, he gives all his-real estate, at.the
death o( biswife to William, the son of his brother James, on
conditiou of hig marrying a daughter of William.Trigg and
Rahel his wife,in trust for the eldest son or issue of said-mar;riage. If such'marringe should not take place, he gives said
estate to any child, giving.preference to age' of William and.
Rachel.Trigg, who should-mafry a child of his brother James,
or bfhissiser Elizabeth. William 'Trigg was the brother of
his wife.' His primary object then is the issue of a marriage
bbtween his nephew William King and a daughter of William
Trigg, by:his then Wife, the niece of.the testator. His second
objdt was the issue of anymarriage-which might take place
between any. chil: of William and Rachel Trigg,- and any
clild of his brother James or of his sister. Elizabeth. That
both-thesexibjects have been defeated, by the. course of subse quent events, does not change the construction of the will.
The testtorti'ndoultedty.expected the one or .the other of
them to tak-pla % andhis -intention .respecting the immediate inteest*-of- the devisee or-the iescent, to the heir, is
,the'-sme'as if a 'daughter had afterwards-been-borm to William and Rachel Tri g who had intermarriedwith William
King. The will. hferefoie is -to be construed in"that respect,
as if the 'cohfemplqkted marriage had been actually consummated. It was, not very probable, at the date- of 'the.will,
that the -devisee' of this - inimense fortune might come into
existence-in less than tiventy yeafs, nortthat, the. wife might
live fifty years. Inthe mean time.no provision whtever-is
made. for him. To- what purpose should the -profits of the
estate intended, for him :be withheld during the life time 6f
the testator's wife, sinicethbse profits were not to be rebeived
by her. Whyshould her death be the event 6n which lands
in.which'no interest-was-given to her, shbuld be enjoyed by
the'deviseeWe perceive atoonce the reason why the de- vise of,those lauds -ibwhich., she had a.life estate, should
takeeffect at.her'death;,.btut there isixo reason for postpoiing-the possessi'on-of lands'iom which she could derive no

SUPREME COURT.
[Finlay et-al. vs. King's Lessee.]

benefit, and which were not, given to others to the same
period.
The devise over too has considerable influence in this
question. It may be on a contingency too remote to be
supported by law ; but the te~tator's intention is not the less
manife sted on that account. He aid not suppose it too remote; and in fact it iiight have happened in a few years.
Had William King, the devisee, died young, or had William
or Rachel Trigg died without leaving a daughter, a fact
which has actually happened, and .Any child of William and
Rachel Trigg had mariried a child of James King or of Elizabeth-Mitchel, .then the whole estate is given to such child,
and to the issue of the marriage. Had either of these- events
taken place, the estate is given from the heirs. It consists
-very well with the general intention of the testator and his
mode of thinking, as manifested in his will, to suppose an
intention that the profits should accumulate for the benefit
of those for whom the estate was designed; we can perceive
nothing in the will to countenance the idea, that. he contemplated the desceni of these lands to his heirs. Nothing
could be more contrary to his general purpose than the distribution which the law would make of his real estate among
his heirs. This may be the result of a total*failure of all the
provisions in the will, but cannot be -considered as the immediate effect, if a contrary intention is perceived, and if
the words can be so construed as to support that intention.
The words used by the testator show that nothing was farther from his mind than a partial intestacy. Hesays, he has
thought proper to make his will, ;"leaving and, bequeathing
his worldly estate in manner following :" after making a considerable provision for his wife, and devising to others during her life, he gives "all his real estate at her death" to
his nephew, on condition, and on failure to perform the .condition, gives "the said estate" over. Being about to devise
all -his estate to his nepheiv, and knowing that his wife and
others would hold a large part of it for her life, it was obvious that his nephew could not take all till her death. But
if he devised the whole estaite, that which could not be taken
by the wife or by others for her life, would pass to the nephew,

JANUARY 'TERM i830.

. 83

[Finlay et al.
vs. Kings Lessee.]

if a-clear intention appears in the whole will, to interceptthe descent to the heir; although the clause taken literally,
would postpone .the possession, even of that part hi which
thp wife has. no into'rest, till her death. To effect this inten'tion, the'court will vary the. strict meaning of words,, and
sometimes transpo0e them. 1 Call, -132. The wrord ".all". may
be transposed, so that the-clause may read, "in casd of haVing
no children, I then leave my real estate, all, at the -death of
my wife, to William' King," &c., Let the clause. be thus
read, and no one could hesitate on.its construction. -The
whole estate'is devised to William King ;.but the possession.
of that part .ofit'which is given to the wife or others for her
life, is postponed fill her death. 'The whole vill bears m~fks
of being written by a man whose language was -far from
being accurate, and whose words, -if-taken literally., would
in some 'instances defeat his intention. :That ihlention', we.
think, was to'devise his'whole real estate-to William King,
in trust, on a condition subsequent, postponing. the possession of that part of-it-which was given to the wife and'others
for her life; till her-deatli.'
3. The third point is one of great interest to the parties. '..
-Did-William King ttike an estate which,- in'the events that
have happened, enures to his owii beneit, or is he'in the' existing -state of things to be considered as a tirustee''t the
heirs of the testator .
This question cannot properly, be decided in this.-cause.
It belongs to a court of chancery, and wily be determined
'when theheirs shall -bring d bill to enforce' the execution of
the trust. Wd 'do not mean to indicate any opinion upon.
it. The- legal title is, vwe think, in William King, whoever:
may claim the.beneficial interest, and the judgment is therefore affirmed with costs.
-

-

Mr Justice JoHNsoN dissenting. 'The dei'eniiant here was plaintiff in ejectment in the cdurt'
below, in a suit to recover certaim lands, part of the estate of'
William King the elder.
'The cause comes up on.a case 'staied according to the

SUPRE$E COURT.
tFinlay et a].
vs. King's Lessee,]

practice/of- Virginia, and upon which judgment. was rendercdfotmh6 plaintiff."
.The right .to..recover depends upo-the will of W illiam
King the blde and the-events that hav.occurrec. jo defeat
-or give effect to the provisions of tllat%*ill.
"The operative woids-of the will -are these. " In case- of
my having no-children, I tbqn -leave and bequeath 4ll my
real esta e, at.the derth of myowife, to William 'King;.son of
"brdther Jantes -King,:on:conditioi of. his. marrying a 'daughter of"William-Trigg aqi my niece Rachel hii wife, in trust
for the eldest son or issue of such marriage; and in case such
marrkiage shotild not take plade,. -I leave and bequeath said
estate to' any child,'giving prefirence to age,-of said Wjlliam
and Rachel'Trigg, 'that will marry.a 'child- of my brother
James or-of'my'sister Elizabetro wife to.JohnMitchell."
The:testator died vdithout -issue, and none of the devisees
.intended to be -provided for. came within -the.description of
heir at law..
As-Mrs Trigg .died ivithoUt,-having had issue- tamale, the
marriage. contemplated -fbr William' the defendant -never
became.possible; neither has any one .ofthemarriages.-contemplated, in the' alternative' taken place 'between the issue
of the Triggs -and the issue of testator's brother or,sister;
but from 'the case stated it appeais that, although remote and
improbable, the event of one of the- contemplated marriages
is -not impossible.These hovever appear to'be-immaterial facts in the present 'ease since it'has not been contelided in argument that
the 'limitation 'over depending upon the failure of William's
marriage with 4 daughter of the Triggs, is limited ,by the
wilI -to talke effect 'within the term prescribed by-the law of
executory devises., Unless it could be'confined to'the life of
Mrs King on the failure of William's marriage, it is obviousthat ihe object of that' devise over might not come' in egsa
until. after every 'life in being had termibated, and tijght-not
marry for more than twenty-one years afterwards.
Without committing myself howeveron this point, I-shall.
pass it 6vet; considering it only as assumed for the-purpose

JANUARY TERM 1830.

385

[Finlay et al. is. King's Lessee.]

of the present argument. After the most diligent attention
to the questions in thIs cause, I cannot help coming to the
conclusion, that its difficulties are rather artificial, or factitious ; and that the true legal view of.it is that which is most
simple and most consistent with the truth of the case, to wit';
that as to the mass of his estate comprised ifn this clause, the
testitor's views had been wholly baffled by events; that the
devise in favour of the offspring of certain marriages in his
own family having altogether failed,'the law must dispose of
his.property, he having made no ulterior disposition of it:
and this-at last will probably come the nearest to a correct
view of the testator's intentions ; for we are at liberty to conclude, in the absence of such ulterior disposition, that inless
the estate should vest in the manner in which he had proposed to vest it, he was indifferent as to what became of it,
or could do no better than leave it to the jaw. If he had
felt that strong predilection for his supposed favourite.nephew, the "presentdefendant,. which was so, much'.insisted
upon in argument,. it may be presumed that the interests of
that nephew would not have been forgotten.
-Much use has been made -of this assumed predilection, in
•order:.to establish an inference of intention in William's
favour.
. To my-mind the Will seems calculated to- induce a.contrary conclusion; for there is not a provision in the 'willmade
in his favour, individually; - He. takes, if at all, in trust for his
own issue, and even that issue is only conditionally an" oh-'
j6ect of favour ; unless mingled with the blood of the Triggs,
it is 'rejected, and -the blood .of the ,Triggs is followed up
into. other connexions, to William's entire exclusion. Nor is
the offspring of'his brother and sister admitted to . higher
favour, unless' they bb .connec.ted with the offspring of the
Triggs.
I think it clear, then, that the primary objects of testator's
bounty were the children of the Triggs, or their offspring;
and not William or his offspring.
At the close of the argument at the lasf term, I intimated
to counsel my impression- that-the cause had not been argued on its true grounds. I considered it a.case of conditional
VoL. II.-2
Y

386

SUPREME COURT.
[Finlay et al. vs. King's Lessee.].

limitation; whereas it was argued exclusively with reference
to the law of conditions'- the one party maintainitg that the
marriage of William was a condition. precedent,. and.therefore, as it never took place, nothing ever vested .in.him; 'the
other, that the marriage was a condition subsequent, and
having become, without default in him, impossible, he took
the estate discharged of the condition; but both conceding
that the cause mnust be-disposed of on the law of conditions.
It is clearly a case of conditional limitation - but'if it is
to be decided on the law of conditions, instead of.the law of
contingencies, Ithink there is abundant-reason for maintaining that it is a case of condition precedent, not subsequent.
Were this a common law conveyance, I should think differ- ently, for reasons well known to the profession, but in-a will
there is not one case in a thousand in-which it would eve
enter the mind of a testator, when he gives upon condition,
generally, that any. interest vests until performance. I -feel
no hesitation in laying it down as 'the ordinary import of
words of condition in a will, that they impose. a, condition
precedent, Unless accompanying words'or the'-eneial -purpose for imposing the condition suggest, the contrary. In
the- present instance, there cannot. be a reason consigned;
-why any interest should -vestin William, prior to -that marriage which was to give birth to the issue that was the sol6
'object. of the -testator's bounty.' It'was not William for
whom any 'beneficial interest was intended,, but the issue of
a particular, marriage, in which-,the will distinctly show&.
that the blood of the Triggs was-the -favoured .bject. We
must force the-words of the testatorfrom their simple and
natural meaning,- befdre William can in .any event, become
more than a mere trustee in interest. -And svhy'credte him
trustee 9 At his tender- age too, for. an 'event so' remote
and uncertain.; for persons-whose cioming in esse depended
upon so many contingencies, must -neceasarily be so long
deferred.; and whose interests would by operation' of law
be committed into hands so much, more competent.' Why
make him a trustee, who would need himself a guardian 9
,It has been urged,tht:the testator. has declared he did
not mean to die intestate," as to any part of his property;

.JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Finlay et al. vs. King's Lessee.]

aiid that marriage being ,a.
valuable consideration, Wiliam
must be considered a purchaser.
As to the first of these argument-, itis clear that the tes.tator never lost gight of his avowed intention, and actually
did:dispose of all his property, though not of all his estate
in-it; and with so many alternatives and precautions, as
might well have satisfied an ignorant man, if not any man,.
that he could not die intestate as to any part of it. And as
to William's being a purchaser, -although it might well be
denied before-the event of his marriage, yet if it be admitted,
the consideration in view was not his" own advancement, but.
that of his Issue. Thaiwas to him a legal and adequate
consideration, either for marrying or waiting for the mar-.
riage. A purchase made for a child, is. a case excepted.
from that class of resulting trusts which arise when one individual pays the consideration, and'another takes the title.
The natural feelings imputed to .the parent are held sdificient to take the case out of the general rule. 2 Mad. Ch.
116, et passim.
If this will is to be adjudged to vest a present interest in
William, subject to be defeated by breach of the condition,
or rather waiting. to be rendered absolute by.the performance
-of the condition; in other words, if it is to be construed to
create a condition subsequent, it must be for the purpose of
cariying into effect this will, or some purpose of the testator expressed in it. But if it can be shown that it would
be nugatory as.to.William, and unnecessary as to all other
-interests, the argument fails.
I can conceive of no interests that can be involved in this
question, unless it be, I. The interests of the devisees over;
2. Those of the heir at law; *or,3. Those of William himself.
Now, as to the first, it would be contrary to the most express terms of the will, to give William a continuing interest,
or any present interest. On a question of intention, it is immaterial whether the devise over be too remote or not too remote. The argument is the same, and as to them, the devise
creates a legal interest :they are not to take under the trust to
William; but in the event of his marriage failing, the devise

SUPREME COURT.
[Finlay et a].
vs. King's Lessee.].

over is of a legal interest, so that the trust is expressly re
stricted to the object of its creation,. which object arises
only upon the marriage of William. The words are, "and
in case such marriage should not take effect, I leave and
bequeath such estate to.any child4"&c.. So that upon tte
failure. of the marriage, the trust was intended to be, as to
the devise over, as though it never had heen mentioned.'
This is expressly limiting William's interest to the purposes of its creation, and rendering itidle.and useless, except in the event of the marriage.
And why should the heir at law ask to invest William-with
an existing interest! He has no need of q legal estate in
William to maintain hig right. -His claim, as 'of an undisposed residue, is better than of. a resulting trust under the
devise to William.
. Or why should the-court adjudge this a condition subsequent in behalf even of William himself? •The law is ciear,
that he can take no beneficial interest under this will ; his case
is one of the strongest possible against the arising of any im-.
plicatilon in favour of a devisee. In the case of Wheeler vs.
Sherval,,Mosely, 301, case 165, in which the.executors claimed a beneficial interest in the residue of property given theim
in trust, the court declares it to be the strongest case possible
against them, that they take expressly in trust.
And in the case of Milnes vs. Slater, 8 Ves. 508, where a
similar claim was preferred, it was held to be conclusive
against it, that one of their number was created trustee. The
heir is not to be precluded or postponed, except .upon express words, or strong, if not unavoidable implication. Here
the implications are all against him who would preclude the

heir at law.
If then the purpose and the words of the will point to the

marriage of William, for the initiation of the testator's boumty, and no interest or object whatever will be.subserved by*
vesting in William a present interest; it follows that the marriage, which is the condition, should be held a conidition

precedent.
Nor can I feef the force of that argument in favour of. a

present or beneficial devise -to William, which is deduced

JANUARY TERM

o830.

399.

[Finlay et al.
v. -king's Lessee.]

from. the circumstance, that no provision .is
made by the will
for the application ,of. the income during the interval ihat
iust ensue between the -mariiage,of William and ,birth-of
issue; ai interval which, jby pqssibility, might- last many.
years.
"Ifthis were- al application for, a maintenaice- out of that
income, such ap implication might have weight; but it certainly goes. no farther :,:qnde~en to that point the inference.
is notunavoidable, since it is perfectly-donbiatet with the
character and duties, of a: trustee, to receive and inveit.-the
rents and. profits of the: truit estate in'. expectancy of the
event which is to appropriate them. Andwhereno -secific.
inistructioni- ar.e giveni himh; a prudent m-an will"claim and receive the directions and prbtectioq of a court of equity, in.
applying. such income.; it is.every. day's.lractice.
.Ifthen-neither does the will give nor- the lawimply any
beneficial-. interest toWilliam, there can be no reason-for
vesting any.thing in him before-the marriage.,
Believing asi do, that fthe case must be disposedo upon the question whether the condition, if a case of conditionf be precedent or subs'equent it ought to be adjudged 4
- condition.,piecedent;

I should here cohi-.ude. - -But as the

case has been lid over, and, there is no knowing on what
point it may go off, I must proceed to examine it-in other
points of view.
I Will then next examine the rights -of William-upon -the
hypothesis that it is a condition.subsequent.
If a condition subsequent, he can.only, in the most.favourable view of his interests,- be placed in ihe same relations
and acquire the. same rights by its becoming impossible, that
Would have -resulted from the performance .f'the condition.
Suppose then the condition performed, E d what would
-have been the character and extent of his rights I On-what.
Rrinciple could he le discharged from the trust on- which
every thing is. given: to him that the will .gives'. Woixld
he .have held 'to his own use or to that of his, issue '. He
would not have aequired an estate tail under the rule in

SUPREME COURT.
-[Finkly et al. v#'Kng's Lessee.]

.Shelly's case, because he was a mere trustee; his, legal:'eg
tate could- not uhite with the use to his issue go as to 'fiake
one estate. And if he wodld-ha- e held in trust for his issue
by that marriage, what would have been the c6nsequence of
his dying without issue q, The-question is easily answered.
The reversion of the use in the event supposed, never
passed from the testator. The disposition of the law was this:
upon the death of- testator, the whole descended upon the
heir, to await the event of William's marriage.. Upon his
marriage, he would have became entitled to take and hold in
trust for the issue of thatmarriage. But .what is the rule of
law when a trust is created for an object that never comes
into existence, or a purpose that fails. It'cannot be questioned that the trustee then holds to the use of the -heir at
law. I will not say it is absurd, but it does appear-to me
irreconcilable with any principles that I im acquainted with;
that a trust should be converted iato a beneficiif interest
'by the occurrence-of an event which makes the trust idle and'
without an object; and it is- not easily reconcilable with reason or with the views of the testator, that an interest which
the heir at law would unquestionably have retained even
after the' marriage, should be divested by the impossibility
that the marriage should ever take place.
There is not'wanting legal authority for maintaining, on'
the contrary, that had the marriage taken place, and the
wife died without issue, so as to render it impossible that the
objeet of the trust Should ever come in esse, the estate would
immediately have returned to the heir at law. I allude to
the case of Mansfield vs. Dugard, 1 Eq. Ca; Abr. lD5,. 1Fearne, 372, in which the devise was to the wife until the son
attained his age of twenty-one years. The son died at thirteen, and it was ruled that the 'wife's estate determined on
the son's decease.
But' it is with reluctance I bestow time upon examining
these qdesti~ns, so thoroughly am I satisfied. that'this case
does not turn on the doctrine of conditions. *It is a cise of
conditional limitation, and therefore to be disposed of upon
very different principles. Cases of conditional limitation

JANUARY TERM 1830.

391

[Finlay ot al. vs. Ring's Lessee.]

-

-

partake -of the.nature of conditions; but they are cases ofcontingency, and to be adjudged upon the principles applicable to contingent estates. .Their distinguishing characteristics are, that they contain a condition either to dive.t an
estate vested, or to-prevent tfie vesting of an estate contem-'
plated, and to Carry-over the interest to another party, or to
some other purpose, not to the -heir.' Whereas -it is indispensable to the legal idea of a condition that it should enure.
to the benefit-of the'heir, that he should enter, and that the
"effect of entry should be the restoration of the original
estate,-not the creation ofa -new estate. A conditional limitation-is comprised among executory devises, anid therefore
can be created by will alone; but-estates oncondition may
be created by. deed or will. As to the estate to be created
or -carried over, as well as in those instances in Which it
anticipates or.prevents an estate from vesting, it is obvious
that'conditional limitations must be-assimilated-to conditions
precedent. But as. the contingency may also operate to •
divest-an estate taken presently, it is equally obvious that it
then approximates to a condition subsequent in . one of its
effects. In either case, however, it is regarded as a contingency, and -the law of conditions is not applied to it, to any ..
purpose that would" defeat the estate of the second taker.
It:is, on the contrary, so moulded 'and applied as nay-/give
effect to the -devise over.
The-question, whether this -is a case of -condition, or of
conditional limitation,.is" easily decided-by subjecting it to
a -very simple and obvious test. '
Let us assume for argument; that the devise over on failure
of William's marriage is not too remote, that he took underi
a condition subsequent, and committed a clear breach of the
condition. . In-that event, if this, is a case subject to the law.

of conditions, the heir alone could enter, anid his entry would
restore the original estate, not carry over an estate-to another; for it is a canon of the law of conditions, that although
entry for condition broken may defeat one estate, it caniot
create a new one,.or carry over another estate; it may restore
the estate of him who- imposed the condition, but does no
more.

SUPREME- COURT.
[Finlay et al. vs. King's Lssee.]

What then'would'become of the devise over!. of the will,!
and of testator's- intention '.They would be defeated- and
hence words 9fcondition in such cases are construed words
of limitation, andthe c6ndition converted into a contingency,
upon the happening or failure of which the, estate.devised in
the alternative goes over and vests without entry. There is
-nooher mode of carrying into effect the intention of the testator, but bygiving to -his language a 'meaning that -will.
tAomport with" that: intention. The only difficulty in this
caus., and: that 'which.probably pre-cecupied the attention
of'co.insel with the law of conditions, -hasresulted from mere
casualty. ' By -aseries of unanticipated events, the heir at
lawis at this time, actually thrown into the same relation,
with regard to the defendant here, in which he would have
stoqd, had the case;been-onepg1rely of condition. That is,
ifthe devise over. be put out of the will, as-too remote in its
creation, then, in effect, the entry of the heirjif he has Wright
to enter, would enure to his own, benefit.
* But this can make, no change inthe law of the ces%WhatQver was the legal character of the right of the p rtiex,
it was the effect of the testator's intention as deduce4 -from
th will. ..
His intention remains the same, although the
arbitrary rulesof law. may prevent that intention from being
carried into effect. The rule of la* which converts wordk
of conditibn into wlords -of limitation in qertain casesj, proceeds.upon intention, and cann'ot be 'affected by the ocourrence of incidents which defeat e'execution of that intention. The present is one of the most frequent and familiar
occurrence in the books,.of those instances in which that
rule -of construction prevails. Neither the first taker, nor
the devisee-ever was heir at law; and in that case lord Hale
has said, (Fry's 'case in Ventris) "that it is a rule which
has received as many resolutions as ever point did, that although the word condition is' used, limiting the estate over
to a stranger makes it .alimitation."
For these reasons I am clearly of opinion, that the rule of
law applicable to conditions subsequent, when become im,possible, is not to govern this case. That it must. be disposed of on the law of conditional limitations and William's

JANUARY TERU- 1830..
[Finlay et &LvA, Eig's Lessee.]

marriage,, is to- be regarded' as4aontingency, not a condition.
I have already given my- reasons for holding this to be a:
.condition precedent,, or .rather a contingency which ls.'to
vest,.not to divest an interest; ahd this is always a question
of intention to-be deduced from the views of the testator:in:
imposing conditios.' If a' condition precedent, then it is
one of those instances in Which tl*efirft estate is'nticipated,
and never vests; the case'becohies a very plain arid'sifmple
ofe, and the will must operate as if it read thus, "if W..K.
shall marry 'a dabghfer of tihe .Triggs- the I give .ihe. rest-

due to 'him in trhst, &d.I-if such marringe shalL.-not -.take
place, then I giv, it over'." .And thiug nonsttrued, ihere-catA
be little doubt.that the will 'comes nearest tQ the .g'obd sense
of the case and the 'Viewsofthe testator. Nbr can there'be any
ambiguity in the law of the case, if so cofistrued. Willin
would take nothing, because h'e never married; and 'thede vise over being-too remote, there is no firsttaker to carry'the
estate. It ii then-an undiisPsedresidue, and to fbe distributed 'accoiding to- the lex loci.
hder th'i viev of the
cage,.the judgment must certainly be against William'King.
But if ha'took a present inteiest, defeasible upon the condition or contingency of refusing to marrt a daughter'of'the
Triggs*;' then the inquiry iswhat effect has it upon the state
of right in a case-of conditional limitation, 'that without his
fault such condition or contingency becomes impossible !.
On this point, whichlis very much'of an authority questi6,
it must 1e acknowledged there is a great dearth of adjudged
cases, as. Well as of learning in elemehtary -writers.
If it -may,he decided with analogy to trsts,.the: objects
of which have failed or never comb in esse; thenthey are
considered as determined in favour of the heir at law, as ih
the bishop of Durham's'case. If-it may be determined by adalogy. to the case of estates to endure until the happeninig-of
an. event that has become impossible; then I have6shbwed
that it determined presently in favour of the devise over;
the. court declaring in the' case of Mansfield vs. Dugard,
that he may wait for ever if his right is to be 'sispended on
an impossible event.
VOL. 1II.-2 Z

SUPREME COURT;
[Finlay et al. vs. Kinr's Lessee.1

And if in the absence of any other established -rule we
may be guided by the polestar .of devises, the te.statoes intention, certainly nothing could comport less with his views,
than to permit an event which he looked forward to as the
certain-cause of divesting W.illiam of even his fiduciary interest, to have the effect of vesting in him an absolute befteficial interest, or any other interest which could stand in the
way of the claim of his own legal representatives,
If we submit the question to the plainest test of reason
as applied to the law of limitation and contingencies; then
it seems incontrovertible, that when a limitation over is made
to depend upon the failure ofa certain event, the limitation
ought to take effect whenever it is ascertained that the event
must fail, as when it has become impessible; and equally so,
that w her -a previous interest, although passing presently
into possession, awaits its confirmation from the happening
of a certain event, that there is no reason for continuingthat
estate, when it is definitively established that the event on
which it depends for confirmation can never happen. These
were the principles recognized in the case of Mansfield v8.
Dugard, and I -thinkthe reasonable result of all the doctrine
of conditional limitations considered under the three heads.
into which the dases are usually distributed. There was a
case cited in argument to sustain the judgment below, on
which so much- reliance was placed that I shall not pass it
over. unnoticed. It, is the case of Thomas ts Howel, reported in Salkeld and Modern, (1 Salk. 170. 4,Mod. 66.)
and very defectively reported in both. The report in Salkeld does not give the half of the-case.; and that in 4 Mod.
gives a very unsatisfactdry'actcgunt of the reasons which
governed the court. An attentive examination of -the facts,
however, will enable'us to understand the case, and to explain it in perfect-conformity with the principles which govern my opinion.
It was a curiously mixed case, in which the law of conditions and conditionallimitations were so blended as to have.
been scarcely severable. It was the- case of a father, tenant
in fee, and his three daughters, constituting his heirs at law.
The father devises to one of the daughters a messuage called

JANUAM

Y TERM 1830.

'(Finlay et al vs. Kings'Lessee.]

Lawhorn, "updn condition that she marry T. T., and if she
refume to, marry him, then over to trustees in trust to be
divided- among the three co-heiresses, equally or otherwise
as they please.' The tmarriage became impossible by the
death of T. T. under twelve, and the question was which to
apply to it,- the law :of conditions- or the'law of limitations.
The majority of the cduft, three out of.four, decided, that
it came-within the- law- of cbndi.tions. One held it to be a
conditional limitation.- On this ease I would remark,
1. That -it
was .wel disposed of upon-the law of conditions,
for the devise, over was in effect to the heir at law, so that
the entryfor, cotidition' broken ivoild not have defeated the
will, but have carried it into. effect;.the reason therefore for
construing words of condition- into words of-limitaiion did
not exist, especially, as it is pfesumable. that there was
nothing.'to -prevent the' operation of the statute of uses in
favour of the ,devisee over under the trust in the ivill, but,
2. There was room for a doubt on -the question arising
from .the effect- of interposing the trust, especially if the
power of making"an unequal' distribution was well'given to
-the -trustees; for then the, entry of the heirs would have def-feated the'testatores views; arid it ought to have been held.
a limitation, according to. the opinion of the diss6nting
judge.
3. 1 think it very clear, that the case- alluded to was argued and*decided: under a general admission- of bench .and
bar, that.if held to be a case 6f-condition, the effect of the
condition's .becoming. iinpossible, would be in favour "ofthe
first takilr-;"but if heldto be, a case of conditiofial limitation,
that it Would'be in favoui bf the party claiming undef the
devise over. 'If the7 effect had bebnlheld to be the same in
both cases, it would have been utterly idle to raise a question upon the will.
And lastly. That when the judges in that case come to the
conclusion that'it was a case*of Condition, .nd .not of limitation, they proceed to examine the question,'whether a cofndition precedent or subsequent, with a view- to the leading motive of .the testator, little regarding any particular phraseology. And certainly with .a yiew to induce.T. T. to address

30.6

SUPREME COURT.
[Finlay et al. vs. King's Lessee.]

the daughter, the more beneficially the will operated" in her
behalf, the greater would be the inducement held out; andaccordingly they make it a condition subsequent. But a
contrary reason operates here, f6r the leading motive is not
the"establishment of William King, but the formation and
advancement of a particular family connexion. It would
then have comported best with this testator's vibwvs to super-

add the inducement of necessity, in order toincline William
King to the proposed matrimonial connexioh.
There could have been no reason for giving it to him un-til the marriage took effect; it would have been better to let
it accumulate in the hands of the executors, especially considering his tender age at the date of the will.
Upon the whole I am satisfied, that if this case is to be
disposed of on the law of Conditions, there is nothing in the
will or the views of the testator that should make it a condition precedent ; and.aoihing certainly has occurred since tomake it necessary to -give it that character'; for had he married, there would have been a resulting trust in favour of the
heirs if the marriage failed to produce issue, and that would
only have left the heir at law where he 'is
now, Without
owing any thing to the aid of a trust. Whence it results, that
it would have been useless and idle to have vested any in-'
terest in William at any time.
: But 1 am perfectly satisfied that the case ig one to which'
the law of limitations ard-contingencies alone is applicable,
and that according to the principles that govern that class
of cases, the impossibility of.the contingency'doe's not con:
firm the estate in the first taker, but defeats it.
I hm therefore of opinion, that the judgment below should
be.reversed.-

