JANUARY -TERM 1830.

99

Jom Irkeus, DMANDANT V8. THP, TRUsTEEs OF THE SAI3iO'S
- SNU'G HAUBOUR r THE Cry OF Nnw Yo y.
The testator gave all the rest and residue and remainder of his estate, real..and
*personal, comprehending a large real estate in the city of New York, ,to the
chancellpr of the state of New York, and recorder of the city of New York,
&c. (naming several other'personsby their-official description), to have andto
.hold the same unto them .aud their respective successors in offihe-to the uses
-and trusts, subject to the conditions and appointments declared ii the will;
which were ;.out of the rents, issues and profits thereof, to erect and bfild updn
the land upon which he resided, which was given by the will, an asylum,
or marine.hospital, to be called "the Sailor's Snug Harbour," for the ptrpose:
of maintaining and supporting aged, decrepid and worn out sailors, &c. And
after giving directions as to the management of th fund by his trustees, ad
declaring that the institution created by his will should be perpetual, and~that
those officers 'and their successors -should for ever continue the governors.
thereof, &c. he adds, "it is my will and desire that if it cannot-egally be
done according to.my above intention, by~them, without an act of the legislature, it is my will and desire that they will as'soon as possible apoly for an
act of the legislature to incorporate them for the purposb above specified ;'and
I do further declare it to be my will and intention, that the. said rest, residue,
&c. of my estate should be at all events applied for the uses and purposes above
set forth; and that itis my desire all courts of law and equity will so construe
this my said last will as to have the said estate appropriated to the above uses,
and that the same should in no case, for want of legal foim or otherwise, be so
construed'as that my relations, or any other persons, should heir, possess or
enjoy my propbrty, except in the manner and for the uses herein above6specifled:"
Within five years after the death of the testator, the legislature of the state of
New York, on the application of the trustees, also named as exe.tors of thiF
will, passed a law constituting the persons holding the offiicei designated in
the will, and their successors, A body'corporate, by the name of "the Trustees of the Sailors Snug Harbour," and enabling them to execute the trusts
declared in the will.
This is a valid devise to-divest the heir of his legal estate, or at all events~to affect
the lands in his hands with the trust declared in the will.
If, after such a plain and unequivocal declaration of the testator with respect to
the disposition of his property, -o cautiously guarding against and providing
for every supposed difficulty thatmight arise, any technical objection shall now
be interposed to defeat his purpose ; it will form an exception to what we find
so universally laid down in all our books as a cardina: rule in the construction
of wills, that the intention of the testator is to be sought after and carried into
effect. If this intention cannot be carried into effect precisely in the mode
at first contemplated by him, consistently with the rules of law, he has provided an alternative, which with the aid of the act of the legislature must remove every difficulty. £113]

100

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglii vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

In the case of "The Baptist Association vs. Hart's Egecutors," 4 Wheat. 27,
.the court considered the bequest void for uncertainty as to the devisees, and
the property vested in the next of kin, or was disposed of by some other provisions of the will. If the testatl ' in tHat case had bequeathed the property
to the Baptist association, on its becoming thereafter and within a reasonable
time incorporated, could -there be a doubt but that the subsequent incorporation *ould b'ave conferred on the association the capacity of taking and managing the fundI -[114]
Whenever a person by wilt gives property, and points out the object, the property, and the way in which it shall go, a trust is created, unless he shows
clearly, that his desire. expressed, is to be controlled by the trustee, and 'that
he shall have an option to defeat it. [119]
What. are the rights of the individuals composing a society, and living underthe protection, of the government, wheh a revolution "Qccurs, a dismemberment takes place, and when new governments areformed, and new,relations
between the government and the people are established. A person born in
New York before the 4th of July 1776, and who remained an infi'ant with
his father in the city of New York, during the. period itwas occupied by the
British troops ; his father being a royalist, and having adhered to the British
government,'and left New York :with the British troops, taking his son with
,him, who never returned to the United States; but afterwards became a bishop
of the episcopal church in Nova Scotia; such a person was born a'British
.subject, abd continued an alien, and is disabled from taking land by inheritancn
in the state of New Y6rk. [126]
If such a person had been born after the 4th of July 1776, and before the
15th of September f776, when the British troops took possession of the
city of New York and the adjacent places, his infancy incapacitated him from
mdking an election for himself, and his election and character followed that of
his father; subject to the right of disaffirmance in a reasonable time after the
termination of his minority ; which never having been done, he remained a
British subject, and disabled from inheriting land in the state of New York.
[126]
The rule as to the point of time at which the American ante nati ceased to be
British subjects differs in this country and in England, as established by the
courts of justice in the respective countries. The English rule is to take the
date of the treaty of peace in 1783. Our rule is to take the date of the declaration of independence. [121]
The settled doctrine in~this country is, that a person born here, but who'left the
country before the declaration of independence, and never returned here, became an alien and incapable of taking lands subsequently by descent. The
right to. inherit .depends upon the existing state of allegiance at the time of the
descent cait. [121]
The doctrine of perpetual allegiance is not applied by the British courts to the
American ante aati; and this court, in the case of Blight's Lessee vs. Rochester,
7 Wheat. 544, adopted the same rule with respect to the rights of British subjects
here. That although born before the revolution, they are equally incapable
with those born subsequent to that event of inheriting or transmitting the irheritance of lands in this country. [121]
The British doctrine therefore ig, that the Arbeican ante nati, by remaining in
America fter the peace,,lost their character of British subjects; and our doctrine is, that by withdrawing from this country, and adhering .to the British

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trusfees of. The Sailor's Snug Harbour.]
government, they lost, or perhaps more properly, 6peaking, never acquired the.
character of American citizens. [122]
The right of election must necesiarily exist in all revolutions like ours, and is
well established by adjudged cases. [122]
This court in the case of MIlvaine's Lessee vs. Coxe, 4 Cranich, 211, fully recognized the right of election ;,but they considered that Mr Coxe had lost that
*right by remaining in the state of New Jersey, not only after she had declared
she bad pased laws by vhich she declared
herself a sovereign state, but After
'him to be a member of,'and in allegiance i the new government. [124].
Allegiance may be dissolved by the mutual consent of-the government and its
*citizens or subjects. The government may release the governed from their
allegiance. This is even the British doctrine. [125]
C. B. by her last will and testament devised "all her estate, rdal and personal,
wheresoever and whasoever in law or equity, in possession, reversion, remainder or expectancy, unto, her executors and to the survivor of them, his
heirs and assigns for ever," upon certain designated trusts: under the statute
of wills of the state ,f NewYork, (1 N. Y. Revised Laws, 364,) all the rights
of the testator t9 real estate, held adversely at.the time of the decease of the
testator, passed to the devisees.by this will. [127]
It is the uniform rule of this court with rbspect to the title to real -property, to
apply-the same rule which is applied in state tribunals-in like cases., [127]
The right of an absent and absconding debtor to real estate held adversely, passed
to and became vested in the trustees by the act of the legislature of New York
passed April 4,1786, entitled "an act for relief against absconding and absent
debtors." [181]
In a writ of right the teiant may, on the mise joined, set up a title out of himself
and in a third person. If any thing which fell from this-court in the case of
Greene vs. Liter, 8 Cranch, 229, can be supposed to give countefiance to the
opposite doctrine, it is done away by the explanation given by the court in
Greenevs. Watkins, 7 Wheaton, 31. It is there laid down that the tenant
may give inevidence the. title in a third person for the purpose of disproving
the demandant's seisin: that a writ of right does bring into controversy~the
'mere right of the parties to.the suit; and if so, it by consequence authorises
either party to establish by evidence that the other has no right whatever in
the demanded premises; or that his mere -right is inferior to that set up,against
him.. [133] .
In a writ of rilht on the mise joined on the mere right, under a count for the.
entire right, a demandaut may recover -aless quantity than the entirety. [135]

THIS case came before the court at January term 1820,
from the circuit court of the United States for the southern
district of New York: on points of disagreement certified by
the judges of that court. After argument by counsel, it was
held. under advisement until the present term.
It was a writ of right, brought in the circuit court, for the
recovery of certain real estate situate, in the city of New
York, whereof Robert Richard Randall died seised and possessed.

102

SUPREME COURT.
[IngUs vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.J

The. count was upon the seisin of Robert Richard- Randall, and went for the whole premises.
Paul R. Randall and Catherine Brewerton, a brother and
sister of Robert Richard Randall, both survived him, but had
since died, without issue.
The demandant claimed his relationship to Robeit Richard
Randall, through Margaret Inglis, his mother, who was a descqndant of John Crooke, the common ancestor of Robert
Richard Ra ndall, Catherine Brewerton, and Paul R. Randall.
The tenants put themselves upon the grand -assize,and
the mise was joined upon the mere right.
-The cause was tried at October term 1827.
The, counsel for the tenants began with the evidence,
and showed that they had been in possession for . number
of years, claiming and iolding the land as owners.
The seisin of Robert'Richard Randall was then proved,
and that-he purchased from one baron Poelnitz. The gen.e
alogy of the demandant as next collateral heir of Robert
R. Randall on the part of his.mother, and that the blood of
Thomas Randall, the father of Robert Richard Randall, was
extindt, was nroved:
it was in evidence that the British troops entered into -New
York on the l5th of'September 1776, and took and had full

possession thereof, and of the adjacent bays and islands, and
established a civil government there under the authority of
the British commander.in chief.
Evidence was given to prove that the demandant was not
more than one year old when the'British troops entered'the

city of New Y.ork, where he was born; that the father of the
demandant was a native ofireland, and hid resided for some
time-in'New York, and continued to reside there until he left
there for.England, on the day of or the day before the evacuation, of New York, the. 25th of November 1783. He took

the dernandant- with bim to England, remained' there two
years, was .appointed a bishop, and- wbnt -to Nova Scotia
in 1785 or 1786, and there resided until his deatb. The.
mother of the demandaht died in NewYork'on the 21st of

September 1783, a little while before the evacuation thereof
by the British tropps. It was always -considered by a witness

JANUARY TERM ,1830.
[inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

who testified in the cabse, thatCharles.Inglis, the father of
'the demandant; was a royalist. The demandant Was certainly
born before the year4-'Z79; in 1783 he. coird not speak plainly; -nd was c'onsidered not morethan-five years old, between
four and five. He took his degree of master of arts in England, was there ordained a clergyman; his place of residence
from the time he first arrived at Nova Scotia was with his
father, and he has continued to'reside there ever since- He
went to England to be consecrated a bishop; which character
henow holds, being bishop:of Nova Scotia. Charles Inglis,
the father of the demandant, hadfour children, the eldest of
which,-a son, died an infant, 20th of January 1782, two
daughters, and the demandant, who was the youngest child.
The following.proceedings of a convention of the state of
New York, before the British -entered the city, were in
evidence.
Tuesday .tfternoon, July 16th, 1776.
Present, general Woodhull president, and the members
of the .convention.
Whereas, the present dangerous situation of this state demands the unremitted-attention of every member of the convention : Resolved unanimously, that .he consideration of
the necesgity and propriety of. establishing an independent
civil government be postponed until the first day of August
next, and that in the meantime,
",.Resolved unanimously, that all magistrates and other
officers of justice in this state, who are -well affected -tb-the
liberties of America, be requested, until further ordiers, to
exercise their respective offices, provided, that all-processe',
and other their proceedings, be under the authority and in
the name of the state of New York.
"Resolved unanimously, that all persons abiding within
the state of.New York, and deriving protection from the
laws of the same, owe allegiance to the said laws, and are
members of the state: and that all perbons passing through,
yisiting, or making a temporary stay in said state, being entitled to the protection of the laws during the time of such

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees ot the Sailor's Snug Haibour.]

passage, visitation, or tEmporary stay, owe, during the same,
allegiance theret6.
"That all persons, members of or owing allegiance to this
state, as before described, who shall levy war against the
said state, within the same,. or be adherent to the king of
Great Britain, or others, the enemies of the' said state, within tiht same, giving to him or them aid or comfort, are guilty
of treason against the state, and being thereof convicted,
shall suffer-the pains and penalties of death."
The tenants gave-in evidence the acts of the legislature of
New York: - For the.foifeiture of the estates of persons
who adhered to the enemies of the state," &c. passed the 22d
of October 1779 ; the "act supplementary to the act to
proyide for the temporary government of the southern part
of tbis state," &c. passed the 23d of October 1779; and the
supplement thereto, passed the 27th of March- 1783.
Robert Richard Randall died in the city of New York
between the 1st of June and the ist-of Julj 1801, having on
the 1st of June of that year made his last will and testament;
probate of which. was regularly made in the city of New
York.
The provisions of the will of Robert Richard 'Randall under which the tenants-claimed their title are the following.
"6. As.to and concerning all the rest, residue and remainder of my estate, both real and personal; I give, devise and
bequeath the same unto the chancellor of the. state of New
York, the mayor and recorder 9f the city of New York, the
president of the chamlber of commerce in the city of New
York, the president and vice president of the marine society
ot the city of New York, the senior minister of the episcopal church in the said city, and the sefiior minister of the
presbyterian church in, the said city, to have and to hold all
and singular the Said rest, residue, and remainder of my said
real and personal estate, unto them the said chancellor of
the state of New Yorlk, mayor of the city of New York,
the recorder of the city of New York, the president of the
chamber of commerce, president and vice president of the
marine society, senior minister of the episcopal church, and

JANAMARY TERM .1830.
[Inglis vs. .The7Trusteesof the Seilors Snug Harbour.)

senior minister of the presbyterian church in. the said city,
for the time being, and their respective successors in the
said offices foreverito, for, and .upon the uses,.trusts, intents
and purposes, and. subject to the directions and appointments hereinafter mentioned and declared concerning the
same, that is to say, out of the -atnts,- issubs and profits of
the said rest, 'residue, and 'emaindemof my said real and
personal estate; to erect and build upon some eligible part
of the-land-upon which I now reside,. a" asylum, or marine
hospital, to be called "the 'Sailor's Snug Harbour," for the
pu~posb of maintaining and stpporting aged, decrepid; and
worn out sailors, as soon' as they, my said charity trustees,
or a mijority of them, shall "judge'the proceeds of the said
estate will support-fifty of the sdid. sailors, and upwards; *and
I do hereby direct, that the'income of the said real and pergOnal, estate, .givei, as aforesaid to'my said' charity trustees,
shall fforever her.eafter' be used and applied for supporting
the asylum, or marine h6spital, hereby directed to be-built,
and for maihtainirlg sailors of-the abovd 'descriptioni therein,
in such manner as the-said" trustees, "or'a majority of them,
may from tip'e, or their'successow in office, may from time
to,&time direct.. And it is my intention' that the institution
hereby directed and created-should be perpetual, 'and that
the above mentioned officers for the time being, and their
successors, should forever continue and -be the governors
thereof, ind have the.. superintendence'of tli6 same,. And.
it is my iiill 'and: d'sire, that -if it canhot legally be done,
according to my above intentib'n, by'theiii, without an'.act
of. the' legislature, it-is' my will and desire that they will as
soon as'possible apply for an-act of the-legislatiife to incor-.
porate'them for the 'purposes-abovo 'specified. And'I do
further declare' it to.be my Will-and intention,' that the said'
rest, residue and 'remainder of my'real and personal estate,
should be at all events applied fbr .th uses :,nd purposes
above set forth ; and.'that it is my" desire all Courts of Jaw.
.and equity will so.construe this my'said will, as to have the
said estate 'appropriated .to the above uses, and that thesame shiould in no case, for want of legal' form or otherwise,
be se construed as that my relations, or any other persons,
VoL. III.M-O

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis as. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

should heir, possess, or enjoy my propetty, except in the
manner and for the uses herein above specified.
"And, lastly, I do nominate and appoint the chancellor of
the state of New York, for the time being, at the time of my
decease; the mayor of the city of New York, for the time
being; the recorder of the city of New Y6rk, for the time
being; the president of the chamber of commerce, for the
time being; the president and vice-president of the marine
society in -the city of New York, for the time being; the
senior minister of the episcopal church in the city of New
York,, and the senior minister of the presbyterian church in
the said city, for the time being;' and their successors in
office after them, to be the executors. of this my last will
and testament, hereby revoking all former and other wills,
and -declaring this to be my last will and testament."
,-It was admitted, that at the time 9f the decease of Robert
Richard Randall, and-of the- probate of the will, the offices
named in the will were respectively filled by different persons, and that they, or some of them, immediately upon the
death of the testator, entered upon the premises under the
will, claiming to be the.owners in fee, until the legislature
of New York, on their application, on the 6th of February
1806, passed "an act to incorporate the trustees of the
marine hospital, called thg Sailor's Snuig Harbour, in the
'city of New York."
Those offices continued to be filled respectively by different persons, from the time of the death of the testator
'until the* time of the trial.
The act incorporating "the trustees of the marine hospital," &c. provides,.
Whereas, it is represented to the legislature, that Robert
Richard Randall, late of.the city of New York, deceased,
in and by his last-will and testament, duly mad&- and executed, bearing ddte the Ist day of June, in the year of our
Lord 1801, did, after bequeathing certain specific legacies
therein mentioned, among other things give and devise and
bequeath all the residue of his estate, both real and personal,
-unto the chancellor of this state, the mayor and recorder of
the city of New York, the president of the chamber of com-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

merce in the city of New York, the president and vice president of the marine society of.the city of New York, the
senior minister of the episcopal church in the said city, and
the senior minister of the presbyterian chtirch in the said
city, for the time 'being, and to their successors in office'
respectively, in trust, to receive the rents, issues and profits
thereof, and to apply the same to the erecting or building
on some eligible part of. the land whdreon the testator then
resided, an asylum, or marine- hospital, to be called "the
Sailor's SnugHarbour," for the purpose of maintaining and
supporting aged, decrepid and worn out sailors, as soon as
the said trustees, or a majority of them, should judge the
proceeds of the said eitate would support fifty of such
sailors and upwards; and that the said testator, in his said
will, declared his intention to be, that the said estate should
at all events be applied to the purposes aforesaid; and .no
other; and. if his said intent could not be carried into effect
without an act of incorporation, he therein expressed his
desire that the said trustee3 would apply to the legislature
for such incorpoiation ; and, whereas, the said trustees have
represented that the said estate is of considerable value, and
if prudently managed, will in time enable them to erect such
hospital, and carry into effect th,'intent of the testator; but
that as such trustees, and being also appointed executors of
the said will, in virtue of their offices, and only during their
continuance in the said offices, they have found that considerable inconveniences have arisen in the management of
the said estate, from the changes which have taken place in
the ordinary course of the elections 'and appointments to
those offices, and have prayed to be incorporated for the
purposes 'expressed in the said will, and such prayer appears
to be reasonable: therefore,
1. Be it enacted by the people of the state of New York,
represented in senate and assembly, that John Lansing, Jun.
the chancellor .of this state, De Witt Clinton thp mayor, and
Maturin Livingston thle' recorler of the city. of New York,
J'ohn Murray the president of.the chamnber'of commerce of
the city of New York, James Farquhar the president, and
Thomas Farmer the first. vice president~of the-marine so-

Jo8

SUPREME COUIT..
[Inglis vs. The Tru;tqes ot the Sailors Snug -Habour.]

ciety of -the city of New -.York,. Benjamin Moore, senior*
minister of the episcopal church in the said &ity; and John
Rogers, seni6r minister of the presbyterian church in the
said. city, and their suceessors in office respectively, in vir-tue of their said offices; .sh'all be, and hereby are constituted
and declared to be a body corporate, in fact, and in name,
by the name and -style ,of-the -trustees .of the Sailor's Snug
Harbour in the city of, Now York; and by that name they*
and their successors shall have continual succession, and
shall be capable- in Jaw of suing and being sued, pleading
and being impleaded, answering and being answered unto,

-

defending and being defended, in all courts and places whatzoever, and inhall manner of actions, suits, complaints, matters and pauses whatsoever; and that they and their successor -may have a .common seal, and may change and alter the
same at their pleasure; and also, that they and their suecessors, .by the name and style aforesaid, , shall be capable
in law of-holding and, lfisposing of the gaid real and personal
estate, devised and bequeathed as aforesaid, according to
the intertion of the said will; and the same is. hereby declared to be vested in them, and their successors in office,
for the purpose therein expressed; and shall 'also be capable
of purchasing, holding and conveying any other real and
personal -estate, for the use and benefit of the said corporation, in such manner as to them, or-a majority of them, shall
appear to betmost conducive to ihe interest.of the said institution.
The seeond'section gives to the trustees the power to make
rules anid regulations,'and to appoint officers for the government'and business of the corporation,., and provides for the
mode- of-transacting the, same.
The third section declares that "this aet shall -be deemed
and taken to be a public act, and be construed'in all courts
and places, benignly and-favourably, for the purposes therein
intended."
On the 25th of March 1814,, dn act-supplementary- to the
ad~of incorporation was passLed, declaring, that persong holding certain offices shbuld ac as trustees, and 'declaring it to
be.the duty of the. corporation to make an annual report-of

JANUARY TERM 1830.

109

[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Shug Harbour]

their funds to, the common council of the city, qt the state
-of theirfunds.
The counsel for the tenants gaie in evidence the act of .the
legislature-of New York, "for relief against absconding 4d
absent-debtors,-'. passed- the 4th-of April 1786; and a repbrt made to-the superior couit of judicature of the state' of
New York, of proceedings under the act against Paul Richard
Randall, -by which he was declared an absent'debtor.
Under-this act 4ll.the estate, real as-weil as personal, of
Paul Richard Randall, asan absent debtor, of what kind or
nature soever the same might be;-were, on.-the 13th:of November 1 00;-attached 7.seized, and taken.andwere, .by the
recorder of-New York, niider' and in pur44nce of tle previsions.of &fe law, upon the2d of Decinber 189I-!y an instrumentof writin'g :under. his hand.-and sieal, conveyed to
CharlesLudlow, James Brewerton, and Roger-Sirong, all of
the city of New York to be .trustees for. 11, Jie creditors of
the said Paul.Richard Randall;.who afterwards duly-qualified
as trustees.
Subsequently, on the 4th of April 1808, upon a further application to the recorder of New-York,.Paul Richard Randall
being still abserit,-other trustees are appointed, according to
lawi who- were, on the same day; qualified to -act as trustees.
The-demandant gave ir evidence the following rules of the

supreme court-of judict ure of the people of the state of New
York!
February.17th, 1804.
"In the mat ter of Paul Richard Randall, anabsent debloi.
"On reading and filing the petition of Alexander Stewart,
White Matlack, and Catherine. Brewerton, agents and attorneys. of the said Paul Richward Randall, and also reading and
filing the.answer.of CharlesLudlow, .James Brewertoni and
Roger Strong, trustees for all the creditors of the said Paul
Dichard Randall, to the said peition, and -on. motion of Mr
amiilton, attorney of the said Alekander Stewart, White
Maflack; andCatherine Brewerton, it is ordered by the court,
that the -said trustees pay to the said PaulRchaid Randalli
-

110

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. Tbd Trustees of the Sailor's Sriug Harbour.]

or to hissaid agents and attorneys, for -his use, the sum of
five thousand five hundred dllgrs',:out of.the moneys now
xemaining in the hands of.the said trustees."
SA-ugust
9th, 1804.
"In'the matter of Paul 1A Randall, an-absent debtor, and
his assignees, &c..
"On readingand filing the petition dl"Alexander Phoenix,
the attorney and agent for Paul Richard Randall,'together
With a certified copy of the power of attorney, and the acknowledgements of the trustees and former attorneys of the
said Paul, thereunto annexed, and on-motion of Mr Van
Wyck, of counsel for the said Alexander, ordered that the
rule heretofore, in February term last, made in the said matter, be vacated, and that tl'e said sum of five thousand five
hundred dollars, acknowledged to be still remaining in the
handsof the saidCharles Ludlow, James Brewerton, and Roger Strong, trustees as aforesaid, be paid over-by them to
the said Alexander Phoenix, as the attorney and agent of the
said Paul Richard Randall."
It appeared in evidence, that Catherine Brewerton died
some time in or about the year of our Lord 1815,. and that
Paul R. Randall died some time in the year of our Lord 1820,
Catherine Brewerton, having first, while a widow, ,made her
last will and testament, dated the 5Lh of June A. D. 1815,
duly executed and attested to pass real estate, and devised
among other things as follows, that is to say:
"Secondly, I give, devise and bequeath, all my estate, real
and personal, whatsoever and wheresoever, in law or equity,
in possession, reversion, remainder or expectancy, (excepting such as is herein otherwise specially mentioned) unto my
executors hereinafter named, and to the survivor of them,
his heirs and assins for ever, upon trust nevertheless for the
uses and purposes hereinafter mentioned and intended, that
is to say, that my executors shall," &c.
Upon 'the trial of the-cause in the circuit court the judges
were opposed in opinion upon the following points, which
were certified to the court.

JANUARY TERM: 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailors.Snug Harbour.]

I. Whether, inasmuch as the count in the cause is for. the
entire right in the premises, the demandant can. 'ecover a
less quantity than the entirety.
II. Whether John Inglis, the demandant, was or was 'not
capable of taking lands in the state of New York by descent,
which general question presents itself under the followingaspects:
1. Whether, in case he was born before the 4th of July
1776, he isan alien, and disabled -fiom taking real estate by
inheritance.
2. Whether, in case he was born after the -4th of July
1776, and before the 15th of September of the -same year,
when the British look possession of New York, he would be
under the like disability.
3. Whether, if he was born after the British took-possession of New York, and before the evacuation on the 25th of
November 1783, he would be under the like disability.
4.-What would be the effect upon theright of John Inglis
to inherit realestate in New York, if the grand assize should.
find that Charles Inglis, the father, and John: hglis, the demandant, did,.in point of flct; elect to become and continue
British subjects and not American citizens'
'III. Whether the will of Catherine Brewerton was sufficient to pass her right an.d interest in the premises in question, so as to defeat the demandant in any respect; the priemises being, at the date of the will and ever since, held
adversely by the tenants'in this suit.
IV. Whether the proceedings against Paul'R. Randall, as.
,an absent debtor, passed his right or interest in the lands'in
question to, and vested the same in the trustees appointed
under the said proceedings, or either of them, so as to defeat'
the demandant in any respect.
V. Whether the devise in the will of Robert Richard Randall of the lands in question is a valid devise, so-as to divest
the heir at law of his legal estate, -or' to affect the lands in
his hands.with a trust.
The cause was argued by Mr Ogden and Mr Webster, for
the demandant, and by Mr Talcott and Mr Wirt, for thie

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of.the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

argument was commenced and concluded by
tenants.
the
counselThe
for the tenants.
Mr Justice THODPsoN delivered the opinion of the court.
This cage.comes up from. the circuit court for the southern
ditrict of New York; upon several points, oh a division of
opinion certified by that court. In the examination of these
points, I shall pursue the order in which they have been'discussed *atthe bar.
-I. "Whether the devise in the will of Robert Richard
Randall, of the lands in question,. is a valid devise, so as to
divest thb heir at law of his legal estate, or to affect the lands
"in his hands with a trust.".
This questipfi arises upon the -residuary clause in the will;
in whichthe testator declares : that as to and concerning
all. the-rest, residue, and remainder of my estate, both real
and personal, Ijgive, devise and bequeath the same unto th6
chancellor. of the state of New York, the mayor and recorderof'the city of New York, &c. (naming several other persons by their official description only) to have and to hold all
i ind sibgular- the 'said' rest, residue and -remainder of my
"saidreal and personal estate, unto them, and their respective successors in office, for ever, to, for dnd upon, the uses,
trusts, intedts. and. purposes, and subject to the dire.ctions
*and appoin'ents hereinaftqr mentioned and declared concerning ioisame, that is to say : out of the rents, issues and
profits of the said iest, residue and remainder of my said real
and' 1personal- estate, to erect and build upon some eligible
part .of the land upon which I now reside, anasylumr or
marine -hospital, to be called ";the Sailor's Snug Harbour,"
for. the"purpose of supporting .aged, decrepid, and w6rn-out
sailors' &c. And after giving'directions as to the managemdbt of the fund by his trustees, and declaring that it- is his
intention, that the-institution erected by his will shounld be
,perpetual, a'bd that the above mentioned officers for the -time
being, and their suogessors, should foi ever continue to be the
goveinors thereof, and have the superintendence of the sama,
be then a6d0, " .and it is my will and desire, that if it cannot
legally be done, according to. my above intention, -by them,

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

without an act of the legislature, it is my will and desire,
that they will as soon as possible apply for an act of the
legislature to incorporate them for the.purposes above specified. And I do hereby declare- it to be my will and intention, that the said rest, residue and remainder of my-said
real .and personal estate, ahould-be at all events hpplied for'
the uses and purposes above set forth ; :and that it is my desire all courts of law and equity will so construe this my
said will as to have the said estate appropriated to the above
uses, and that the same should in n6.base, for 'want'of legal.
form or otherwise, be so construed as that. my relations, or
any other persons, should heir, possess or enjoy my.property,
except in the manner, and for the uses herein above specified."
The legislature of the state of.-New- York, within a few
years after the death of the testator, on' the .-pplicatibn .of
the trustees, who are also'named as executors- in the will,
passed a law, constituting -the persons holding the offices
designated in the will, and their successors in office, a body
corporate, by the name and style of' "the Trustees. of the
Sailor's Snug Harbour in the city of New York," anddeclaring that they and their successors, by the name and. style
aforesaid, shall be capable in law of hold ing and disposing
of the said real and personal -estate, devised and bequeathed
as aforesaid, according to the intentions-of the aforesaid will.
And that the same is hereby declared to be ve8ted in them
and their successors in office for the purposes therein expressed.
If, after such a plain and unequivocal declaration of the
testator with respect to the disposition. of -1his property, so
cautiously guarding against, and providing for every supposed difficulty that might arise, any technical objection shall
now be interposed to defeat his purpose, it will form an exception t6 what we find so universally laid down in all our
books, as a cardinal rule in the construction of wills, that
the intention of the testator is to be sought after and carried
into effect. But no such difficulty.in my judgment is here
presented. If the intention of the testator cannot be carried
into effect, precisely in.the mode at first contemplated by
VOL. III.-P

SUPREME COURT.
[Ioglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

him, consistently with the rules of law, he has provided an
alternatlye, which, with the aid. of the act of the legislature,
must remove all difficulty.
The case of the Baptist Association vs. Hart's executors, 4
Wheat. 27, is supposed to have a strong bearing upon the
present. This is however distinguishable in many important
particulars from that. The bequest there was, "to the Baptist .sssociationthat for ordinary meets at Philadelphia."
This association not being incorporated, was considered incapable of taking the trust as a society. It was a devise in
presenti, to take effect immediately on the death of the testator, and the individuals composing it were numerous and uncertain, and there was no executory bequest over. to thq
association if it should become incorporated. The court
therefore considered the bequest gone for uncertainty as to
-the devisees' and the property vested in the next of kin, or
was disposed of by some other provision in the will. If the
testator in that case had bequeathed the property to the
Baptist Association on its becoming thereafter, and within a
reasonable time incorporated, could there be a doubt but ,that
-the subsequent incorporation-would have conferred on the
association the capacity of taking and managing the fund.
In the case. now before the court, there is no unc'&rtainty
with respect to the individuals who -were to execute the trust.
The designation of the trustees by their official character, is
equivalent to naming them by their proper names. Each office referred-to Was filled by a single individual, and the
naming of them by their official distinction was a mere designatio personm. They are appointed executors by the same
'de,,eriptionand no objection could lie to their qualifying and
acting as such. The trust was not to be executed by them in
'their official characters, but in their private and individual
capacities. But admiting that if the devise in the present
case had been to the officers named in the Will and their successors, to execute the trust, and no other contingent provision made, it would fall within the case of the Baptist Association. vs. Hart's executors.
The subsequent provisions in the will must temo*ve all
difficulty on this ground. If the first mode pointed out by
the testator fcr carrying into execution his will and inten-

JANUARY TERM. 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Sng Harbour.]

tion, with respect to this fund, cannot legally take effect, it
must be rejected, and the will stand as if it had never been
inserted ; and the devise would then be to a cbrporation, to
be created by the legislature, composed of the several officers designated in the will as trustees, to take the estate and
execute the trust.
And what objection can there be to this as a valid executory devise, which is such a disposition of lands, thatthereby no estate vests at the death of the devisor, but only
on some future contingency . By an executory devise, afreehold may be made to commence in futuro, and needs
no particular estates to sup-port it. The future estate is to
*arise upon some specified contingency, and the fee simple
is left to*descend to the heir at law -until such contingency
• happens. A common case put in the books to illustrate
the rule is : if one 'devises land to a feme sole and her heirs
upon her marriage. This would be a freehold commencing
in futuro, without any pqrticulal: estate to support it, and
would be void in a deed, though good by executory devise,
2 Black. Com. 175. This cbntingency must happen within
a reasonable time, and the utmost length of time the law allows for this is, that of a life or lives in being and twenty-one
years afterwards. The devise in this case does not purport
to be a present devise to a corporation not in being, but a
devise to take efbect in futuro upon the corporation being
created. Thu contingency was not too remote. The incorporation was to be procured, according to the directions in
.the will, as soon as possible, on its being ascertained that
the trust could not legally be cdrried into effect in the mode
first designated by the testator. It is a devise tb take effect
upon condition that the legislature should pass alaw incorporating the trustees named in the will. Every executory.devise
is upon some condition or contingency, and takes effect only
upon the happening of such contingency or the performance
of such condition. As in the case put of a devise to a feme
sole upon her marriage. The devise depends on the condition of her afterwards marrying.
* The doctrine sanctioned by the court in Porter's case, 1
Coke's Rep. 24, admits the validity of a devise to a future in-

116

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglisvs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

corporation. In answer to the argument that the devise of a
charitable use was void under the statate 23 Hen. 8, it was
said, that admitting this, yet the condition was not void in that
case. For .the testator devised that his wife shall have his
lands and tenements, upon condiion that she, by the advice of
learned counsel, in convenient time after his death, shall assure all his lands and tenements for the maintenance and continuance of the said .free school, and alms men and alms
women for ever. So that although the said uses were prohibited by the statute, yet. the testator hath devised, that counsel
learned- should advise, how the said lands and tenementsshould be assured, for the uses aforesaid, and that may be advised lawfully: viz. To make a corporation of them by the
king's letters patent, and afterwards, by license, to assure the
lands and tenements to them. So if a man devise that his executors shall, by the advice of learr ed counsel, convey his lands
to any corporation, spiritual or temporal, this is not against
any act of parliament, because it may lawfully be done by
license, &c. and so doubtless' was the ihtent of the testator,
for he would have the lands assured for the maintenance of
the'free school, and poor, for ever; which cannot be done
without- incorporation and license, as aforesaid; so the condition is not against law: quod fuit concessum per curiam.
The devise in that case could ilat take effect without the
incorporation. This was the condition upon which'its validity
depended. And the incorporation -was to be procured after
the death of the testator. The 'devisf...then, as lso in the case
now before the court, does not purport to be a present devise,
but to take effect upon some future 'event. And this distinguishes the present case from that of the Baptist Association
vs. Hart's. executors, in another important circumstance.
There it was a present devise, here itis a future devise. A
devise to the first son of A. he having no son at that time, is
void; because-it is by.way of a present devise, and the devisee is not in esse. But a devise to the first son of A. when
he shall.have one, is good;. for that is only- a future devise,
.and v.alid as an exec.utory devise. 1 Salk. 226, 229.
The bases in the books are very strong to show, thal for
the purpose of cariying into iffect.the intention of the tes-

JANUARY TERM- 1830.
[Inglis vs. "xneTrustees of the Sailor's Snug Harboqr.j

tater, any mode pointed out by him will be sanctioned, if
consistent with the rules of law, although some may fail. In
Thellusson vs. Woodford, 4 Yes. Jun. 325, Buller, Justice,
sitting with the lord chancellor, refers to, and adopts with
approbation, the rule laid down by. lord Talbot in Hopkins
vs. Hopkins: that in such cases, (on wills,) the method of
the courts is not to set aside the intent because it cannot
take effect so fully as the testator desired, but to let it work
'as far as it can. Most executory devises, he says, are without
any freehold to support them; the"number of contingencies
is not rnaterial, if they are to happen within the limits allowed by law. That it was never held that executory devises
are to be governed by the rules of law, as to common law
conveyances. The only question is, whether the.contingencies are to happen witHin a reasonable time or not. The
master of the rolls'in that case says, (p. 329,) he knows of
only one general rule of construction, equally for courts bf
equity and courts of l'aw, applicable to wills: -Tbe intention
of the testator is to be sought for, and the will carried, into
effect, provided it can be done consistent with the rules of
law. Ahd he adds another rule, which has become an
established rule of construction. * That if the court can see
a general intention, consistent with the rules of law, .but the
testator has attempted- to carry it into effect in a way that
is not permitted, the court is to give effect to the general
intention, though the particular mode shall fail. " Peere
Wms, 332. 2 Brown's Ch. 51.
The language of Lord Mansfield in the case of Chapman
vs. Brown, 3 Burr. 1634, is'very strong to show how far
courts will go to carry into effect the intention of the testat6r. To attain the intent, he says, words of limitation shall
operate as words of purchase; implication sha'lltsupply verbal
omissions. The letter shall give way, 'every inaccuracy of.
grammar, every impropriety of terms, shall be corrected by
the general meaning, if that be clear and manifest.
In Bartlet vs. King, 12 Mass. Rep. 543, the supreme judicial court of Massachusetts adopt the rule laid down in
Thellusson vs. Woodford, that the court is bound to carry
the will into effect if. they can see a general intention con-

118

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglils vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

sistent-with the rules of law, even.if the particular mode ormanner pointed out by the testator is illegal. And the court
refer with approbation to what is laid down by Powell in
his Treatise on Devises, 421' , that a devise is never construed absolutely void for uncettainty, but from necessity:
if it be possible to reduce it to certainty it is good. - So also
in Finlay vs. Riddle, 3 Bihn. Rep. 162, in the 'supreme
court of Pennsylvania, 'the rule is recognized, that the general intent must be carried into effect, even if it is at the
expense of the particular iintent.
A rule so reasonable and just in itself, and in such perfect harmony with the whole doctrine of the law in relation
to the construction of wills, cannot but receive the approbatibn and sanction of all courts of justice; and a stronger
case calling for the application of that rule can scarcely
be imagined than the one now before the court. The genezal intent of the testator, that this fund 'should be applied
to the maintenance and support of aged, decrepid and worn
out sailors, cannot be mistaken. And he seems to have
anticipated that some difficulty might arise, about its being
legally done in the particular m6de pointed. out by him.
And to guard against a failure of his purpose on that'account,
he directs application to bemade to the legislature for an
incorporation, to take and execute the trust according to
his will; declaring his will and intention to be, that his estate
should at all events be applied to the uses and purposes
aforesaid ; and desiring all courts of law and equity.so to
coqstrue.his will, as to have his estate applied to such uses.
Arid fo makeit still more secure; if possible, he finally dirTcts that his will should in no- case, for want of legal form
or otherwise, be so construed, as that his relations, or any-other persons, should heir, possess -or enjoy his prtoerty,
except in the manner and for the uses specified in his will.
The will looks therffore to three alternatives:
1. That the officrs named in the *,ill as trustees, should
take the estate and execute the irust.
-2. If that could not legtly be done, then he directs histrustees to procure an act of inporporation, and vests the
.estate in it for the purpose of executing the trust.

JANUARY TERM 1830.

119

[Inglis vs. The Trustees of te Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

3. If both these should fail, his .heirs, or whosoever
should possess and enjoy the property, are charged with the
trust-"
. That this trust is fastened upon the iand cannot admit of
a doubt. Wherever a person by will gives property, and
points put the object, the property, and the way in which it.
shall go, a trust is created; unless he shows clearly, that his
desire expressed is to be controlled by the trustee, and -that
he shall have an option to defeat it. 2 Ves, Sun. 330.
It has been urged by the demnandant's counsel, that these
lands cannot be charged with the trust in the hand4 of the
heir, because the will directs that they shall n6t befpossessed or enjoyed, except in the Manner and for the uses
specified. That the manner and the use must concur in
order to charge the trust on the land: But I apprehend
this is a mistaken application of the tdrm mannerias here
used. It does not refer to the persons who were to'xecute
the tr'ust. But to the mode or mannei in which -itwas to
be carried into effect, viz. by erecting upon some eligible
part of the land an asylum, or marine hospital, to be called
the Sailor's Snug Harbour. And, the uses "were, "for ihe
purpose of maintaining and supporting aged, decrepid and
worn out sailors." Whoever therefore takes the land, takes
it charged with these uses' or trusts, which are to be executed in the manner above mentioned. And if so,- there
can be rno objection to the act of incorporation, and the
vesting the title therein declared. It does not interfere w!th
any vested rights in the heir.. He has no beneficial interest
in the land. And the law only transfers the execution of
thp trust from him to the corporation, and thereby carrying
into effect the clear and manifest intention of the testator.
But being of opinion that the legal estate passed under the
will, I have not deemed it necessary to pursue the question
of trust, and have simply referred to it, as being embraced
in the point submitted to this court.
If this is to be considered a devise to a corporation, it
will no. come within the prohibitions.in the statute of wills,
Revised Laws, 364. For this act of incorporation is, pro
tanto, a repeal of that statute.
Taking this devise therefore in either of the points of view

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

in whicn it has been considered, the answer to the question
put must be, that it is valid, so as to divest the heir of his
legal estate, or at all events, to effect the lands in hishands
with the trust declared in the will.
If this view of the devise in the will of Robert Richard
Randall be correct, it puts an end to the right and claim of
the demandant, and might render-it unnecessary to examine
the other poirits which have been certified to this court, had
the questions come up on. a special verdict or bill of exceptions. But coming up on a certificate of a division of opinion, it has been the usual course of this court to express an
opinion upon all the points.
It is not however deemed necessary to go into a very extended examination of the other' questions, as the opinion

of the court upon the one already considered, is conclusive
against the right of recovery in this action.
II. The second general question is, whether J ohn Inglis,
the demandant, was.or-was not capable oftaking lands in
the state of New York by descent.
This question is presented under several aspects, for the
purpose of meeting what at present from the evidence appears a little uncertain, as to the time of the birth of John
Inglis. This question as here I'resented, does not call upon
the court for an opinion upon'the broad doctrine of allegiance and the right of expatriation, under a settled and
unchanged state of society and government. But to decide
what are the rights of the individuals composing that society, and living under the protection of that government, when
a revolution occurs; a dismdmberment takes place; new governments are formed; and new relations between the government and the people are established.
If John Inglis, according to tl'e first supposition under
this point, was born before the 4th of July 1776, he is an
alien; unless his remaining in New York during the war
changed his character and made him an American citizen.
Itis universally admitted, both in the English courts and in
those of dur own *country,that all persons' born within-the
"colonies of North -America, whilst subjedt to the
crown of
Great Britain, were natural born British subjects, and it

1ANUARY TERIA 1830.

121

[Inglli vs. The Trustees- of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

must necessarily follow, that -that character was changed by
the separation of the colonies from the parertt state, and the
acknowledgement of their independence.
The rule ag to thepoint of time at which the American ant6
•-nati ceased to be British subjects, differs in-this country and in
England, as established by the courts of justice in the respective countries. The English rule is to'take the date of the
treaty of peace in 1783. Out rule is to take the date of the
declaration of independence. And in the application of the
rule to different cases, some difference in opinion may arise.
Thesettled doctrine of this country is, that a person born
here, who left the country before the declaration of independence, and never returned here, became thereby arralien, and
incapable of taking lands subsequently by descent'in this
country. The right to inlierit depends upon the existing
state of allegiance at the time of descent cast. The descent
cast in this case being long after the treaty of peace,the
difficulty which has arisen in some cases, where the title was
acquired between the declaration of.independence and the
'treaty.of peace, does not arise here. Prima face, and as a
general rule; the character in which the American ante nati
are to be-considered, will depend upon, and be determined by
the situation of the party and the election made at the date of
the declaration of independence, according to our rule; or
the treaty of peace according to the British rule. But this
general rule must necessarily be controlled by special circumstances attending particular cases. - And if the right of
election is at all admitted, it must be determined, in most
cases, by what took place during.the struggle, and between
the declaration of independence and the treaty of peace.
To say that the election must have been made before, or immediately at the declaration of independence, would render
the right nugatory.
The doctrine of perpetual allegiance-is not applied by the
British -courts to the American ante nali. This is fully
shown by the late case of Doe vs. Acklam, 2 Barn. & Cresw.
779. Chief Justice Abbott says, "James Ludlow, the father
of Frances May, the lessor of the plaintiff, was undoubtedly
born a subject of Great Brifain. He was born in a part of
VbL. III-Q

1-22

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

America which was at the time of his birth a British colony,
and parcel of the dominions of the crown of Great Britain;
but upon the fact found, we are of opinion that he was not a
subject of the crown of Great Britain at the time of the birth
of his d:iughter. She was 6orn after the independence of
the colonies was recognised by the crown of Great Britain,
after the colonies had become United States, and their inhabitants generally citizens of those, states. And her father
by his continued residence in those states manifestly became
a citizen of them." He considered the treaty of peace as a
release, from their allegiance, of all British subjects who remained there. A declaration, says he, that a state shall be
free, sovereign and independent, is a declaration, that the
people composing the state shall -no longer be considered
as subjects of the sovereign by whom such a declaration is.
made. And this court, in the case of Blight's Lessee vs. Rochester, 7 Wheat. 544, adopted the same rule with respect
to the right of Bitish subjects here. That although born
before the revolution, they are equally incapable with those
born subsequent to that event of inheriting or transmitting
-the inheritance of 'lands in this country. The British doctrine therefore is, that the American ante nati, by remaini.ng
in America after the treaty of peace, lost their character of
British subjects. And our doctrine is, that by withdrawing
from this country, and adhering to the British government
they lost, or, perhaps more properly speaking, never acquired
the character of American citizens.
This right of election must necessarily e.fist, in all revolutions like ours, and is. so well established by adjudged
cases, that it is entirely unnecessary to enter into an examination of the authorities. The only difficulty that can
arise is, to determine the time when the election should have
been made. Vattel, B. 1, ch. 3, sec. 33. 1 DalI. 58. 2
Dall. 234. 20 Johns. 332. 2"Mass. 179, 236, 244, note.
9 Pickering, 394. 2 Kent's Com. 49.
I am not aware of anytcase in the American courts where
this right of election has been denied, except that of Ainsley
vs. Martin, 9 Mass. 454. Chief Jdstice Parsons does there
seem to recognise,.and apply the doctrine of perpetual alle-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

giance, in its fullest extent. He then declares that a person
born in Massachusetts, and who, before the 4th of July
1776, withdrew into the British dominions, and never since
returned into the United States, was not an alien, that his
allegiance to the king'of Great.Britain was founded on his
birth, within his dominions,"and.that that allegiance accrued
io the commonwealth of Masachusetts, as his lawful successor. But'he adds what may take the present case even
out of his rule: "It not being-alleged," says he, "that-the
demandant has been expatriated, by virtue of any statute or
any judgment of law." But the doctrine. laid down in this
case is certainly not that which prevailed in the supreme
judicial court of Massachusetts, both before and since that
decision, as will appear by the cases above referred to of
Gardner vs Ward, and Kilham vs. Ward, 2 Mass. and of
Geotge Phipps, 2 Pickering, 394 note.
John Inglis, if born before the declaration of independence, must have been very young at that time, and incapable of niaking.an election for himself; but he mast, after suci
a lapse of time, be taken to have adopted and-ratified the
choice made for him by his father, and still to retain the
character of a British subject, and never tp have become an
American citizen, if his father was so to be considered. lHe
was taken -from this country by his father before the treaty
of peace, and has continued ever since to reside within the
British dominions without signifying any dissent to the election made for him; and this ratification', as to all his rights,
must relate back, and have the- same effect and operation,
as if'the election had been made by himself at that time.
How then is his father Charles- Inglis to be considered .
Was he an -American citizen ? He was here at the time of
the declaration of independence, and prima facie may bie
deemed to have become thereby an American citizen. But
this prima facie presumption may be rebutted; otherwise
there is no force or meaning in the right of election. It
"surely-cannot be said, that nothing short of actu4lly removing from the country before the declaration of independence
will be received as evidence of the election ; and every act
tathcnuhlbe-denae to signify the choice that bad been made,

SUPREM'EM

COURT.

[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

except actually withdrawing from the country, wai done by
Charles Inglis. He resided in the city of New.York at the
declaration of independence, and remained there' until he
removed to England, a short time before the evacuation of
the city by the British in November 1783; New York during
the whole of that time, except fromiJuly to September 1776,
being in possession, and under the government and control
of the British, he taking a parf and acting with the British;
and was, according to the trong language of the witness, as
much a royalist as he himself was, and that no man could be
more so. Was Charles Inglis under these circumstances to
be considered an American citizen 1. If-being here at the
declaration of independence necessarily made him such,
under all possible circumstances he was an American citizei.
But I apprehend this would be carrying the'rule to aii extent
that never can be sanctioned in a court of justice, and would
certainly be going beyond any case as yet decided.
The facts disclosed in this case, then, lead irresistibly to
the conclasion th'at it was the fixed determination of Charles
Inglis the father, at the declaration of independence, to adhere to his native allegiance. And lohn Inglis the son must
be deemed to have followed the condition of his father, and
the character of a British subject attached to and, fastened
on him also, which he has never attempted to throw off by
any act disaffirming the choice made for hime by his father.
The case of M'Ilvaine vs. Coxe's Lessee, 4 Cranch, 211,
which has been relied upon, will not reach this case. The
court in that case recognized fully the right of election, but
considered that Mr Coxe had lost that right by remaining in
the state of New Jersey, not only after-she had declared herself a sovereign state, but after she had passed laws by which
she pronounced him to be a member of, and in allegiance
to the new government; that by the act of the 4th of October 1776 he became a member 6f the new society, entitled
to the protection of its government. ie continued to reside
in New Jersey after the ptassage of this'law, and until some•
time in the year 1777, thereby making his election to become
a member of the new governiment; and. the doctrine of alle,
gialfee be ame. applicable to his case, which -rests on the

JANUARY TERM 1830;

,1,5"

[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

-

ground of a mutual compact between the government and
the citizen or subject, which it is said cannot -be dissolved
by either party without the concurrence of the other. It is
the tie which binds the governed to their government, in
return for the protection which thegovernment affords them.
New Jersey, in October 1776, was in a condition to e.xtend
that protection, which Coke tacitly accepted by remaining
there. But that was not the situation of the city of New
York; it was in the possession of the British. The government of the state of New York did not extend-to it in ppint
of fact.
The resolutions of the convention of New York of the
16th of July 1776, have been relied upon as asserting a claim
to the allegiance of all persons residing within the state.
But it may well be doubted whether these resolutions reachedthe case of Charles Inglis. The language is, "that all persons. abiding within the' state of New York, dnd deriving
protection from the'laws of the same, owe allegiance to the
said laws, and are members of the state." Charles Inglis
was not,.within the reasonable interpretation of this resolution, abiding in the- state and owing protection to the laws
of the same. Ele was "ithin the British lines, and under the
protection of the British army,-manifesting a full determination'to continue a British subject. But if 'it
should be admitted that the state of New York had a right to claim the
allegiance of Charles Inglis, and did assert that'right by the'
resolution, referred to, still the case of M'Ilvaine vs. Coxe
does not apply.
It cannot, I-presume, be denied, but that allegiance may
be dissolved by the mutual. consent of the government and
its citizens or subjects.. The government may release the governed from their allegiance. This is even the British
doctrine in .the case of Doe vs. Acklam, before referred
to. The act of attainder passed by the legislature of the
state of New Y,-rk, by which Charles Inglis.is declared to
be for ever banished from the state, and adjudged guilty of
treason if ever afterwardshe should be-found there,-must be
considered a release of his allegiante, if ever he owed any
to the- stte. ..1 Greenleaf's Ed. L. N. Y. 26.

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

From the view of the general question referred to in this
court, the answers to the specific inquiries will, in my judgment, be as follows.
1. If the demandant was born before the 4th of July 1776,
he was born a British subject; and no subsequent act on his
part, or on the part of the state of. .New York, has occurred
to change that character; he of course continued an alien,
and disabled from taking the land in question by inlieritance.
2. If born after the 4th of July 1776, and before the 15th
of Seitember of the same year, when the British took possession of New York, his infancy incapacitated him from
making any electiofi for himself, and his election and character followed ihat of his father, subject to the right of disaffirmance in a reasonable time after the termination of his
minority; which never having been done, he remains a British
subject, and disabled from inheriting the land in question.
.3. Ifborn after the British took possession of New York,
and before the evacuation on the 25th of November 1783,
he was, under the circumstances .stated in the case, born a
British subject, under the protection of the British goiernment, and not under that of the state of New York, and of
course owing no allegiance to the state of New York. And
even if the resolutions of the convention of the 16th of July
1776 should be considered as asserting a rightful claim to
the allegiance of the demandant and his father, this claim
was revoked by the act of 1779, and would be deemed a release and disdharge of such allegiance, on the part of the
state, and which qaving been impliedly assented to, by the
demandant, by withdrawing with his fatherfrom the state
of New York to the British dominions, and remaining there
ever since, worked a voluntary dissolution, by the assent of
the government and the demandant, of whatever allegiance
antecedently existed, and the demandant at the time of the
descent cast was an alien, and incapable of taking lands in
New York by inheritance.
4, When. Charles Inglis, the father, and John Inglis, his.
son, withdrew from.NewYork to the British dominions, they
had the right of electing to become and remain British subjects. - And if the grand assize shall find, that in point-of

JANUARY TERM 1830.

127

[ligUs vs. The Trustees ot the Sailor' Snug Harbour.]

fact they had made such election, then the demandant at
the.time of the descent cast was an' alien, and could not inherit real estate in New York.
JIL. The next question is, whether the will of Catherine
Brewerton was sufficient to pass her right.and interest in the
premises in question, so as to defeat the demandant in any
respect; the pr.emises.being .at the date of the will, and ever
since, held adversely, by the tenants in the suit.
.Mrs-Brewertofn -was the .sister of Robert Richaid Randall,
and. if the devise in his will is 'void and cannot take effect,
she, as' one of his heirs at .law, would--be entitled to a moiety
of the -lands in question. She died in the year1815, having
shortly before made-her"last- will and testament, duly'executed and attested to pass'eal estato. -By this will she Ievised and bequeathed all her re*al and personal 6itate, whatso6vdr -and wheresoever, in law and. equity, in possession,
reversion, remainder, or expectancy (except some specific
legaci es) untp,. her executors, -upon- certain, trusts tlerein
mentioned.' If- this will was .th~rerore operative, so as-to
pass her right to' her brother's estate, it will defeat the
demandant's right to recoVer, as to one moiety 'of the pre-,
mises in question;
The objection taken to-the-operation of'this.will'is,. that
the premiseg were at ihe date thereof, and ever since'have
been held adversely by the ten ants ,in the 'suit.The validity of this objection musi depend upon the- construction -of the statute of wills in the state of Tiw York.
By that statute (I N. Y. Rev. Laws, -364,' sec. 1.) it. is declared' that any person having 'any eWtate ofinheritahce,
either in severalty, in coparcenary, or in common, in any
lands, tenements, or hereditaments, may-at .his own" free will
.and pleasure, give or-devise the same, or any'of theim; or
-any rent or profit out of the same or out of any -part thereof,
to.any person pr persons, (.except bodies public and corporate) by his last will and testament, or-any other act by him
lawfully executed. •
a qaestion depending upon- the construction
of. a state statute, 0with 'respect to' the title to real property,
it has-been the upiform course of this court, to apply.the
-This-being

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.].

same rule that we find applied by the-state tribunals in like
casesi 1 Peters, 371. This statute upon the point' now
under consideration has received a constructidn by the supreme court of the state of New York, in the case of Jackson vs. Varick, 7 Cowen, 238. The question arose upon the
validityof a devise in the will of Medcef Eden, the younger.
The objection was, that at the time of the devise, and of the
death of the testator, the premises in question were, and
had been for several years before in the adverse possession
of-the defendant, and that he -and those under whom he
claimed entered originally, without the consent of the devisor or any one from whom he claimed. The court say, the
.facts present -the question whether the owner Jn fee can
devise ]and, which, at the time of the .devise arid his death,
is in the adverse possession of another. That is, whether a
person having a right of entry in fee simple, shall be said
to have an estate of inheritance in lands, tenements or hereditaments in the language of our statute of wills.
It is unnecessary to pursue the course of reasoning which
conducted the. court -to the. conclusi6n to which it came.
The result of'the opinion was,. that under the comprehensiye words used in the act, -a right- of entry, as.well as an
estate in .theactual seisin and possession of the devisor, was
devisable; and that an estate" that -would descend to the heir
is transmissible equally by-wi.ll. The judge who delivered
the opinionadverted to- some cases that, had arisen in the
same court, wherein a'contrary doctrine. would seem to have
been recognized, .butcame to the conblusion, that no decision had been made upon the p6int.
In the case of Wilkes vs. Lion, 9 Cowen, 355, decided in
the court of errors, in New, Yorki one of ihe points relied
upon by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, was, that this
same will of Medcef Eden, the younger, was.inoperative as
to the premises then in question ; they being lands of which
he was not seised at the time of his death. I do not find that
any direct opinion was given upon this point; but the objection must have been overruled, or the court could not have
orme to.the conclusion it did.
,Itis said, hoever, by -the demandant's counsel, that these

JANUARY TERM

o.

[Intglis vs. Thi Trustees of the Sailor's Sdug-Hgrbbur.4"

cases, do not apply to the one now before the court.; butonly such estate -as.would descend to the heir of the. devisor,- and that the premises in question here would not descend iothe heir'sof Mrs Brewerton for want of-actual seisin.
According to the rule laid down in Watkin's on Descents, 23,that wh.ere the ancestor-takes by purchase, he may be capable of transmitting-the property so -taken to his own heiis,
without any acfual p6ssession in himself; -but if the ancestor
himself takes by descent, it is absolutely necessary, in order
to make him the *stock or-terminus, -frorn,whom the descent
should now run, and so'enable him to transmit such heredi-.
taments to his own heirs, that he acquire ani actual seisin of
-such -as are corporeal, or what-is equivalent thereto, in such
as are incorporeal.
It is very evident, however,-that, the court could not have
intended to apply this rule to the construction of the statute
of will&. For they say, in terms, that tle question is, whethier
a person having a right of entry'in lands has an estate of
inheritanc devisable, -according to the -provisions - of Ihe
statute. But under the common law rule referred to, a person'having only a right of entry, would not be accounted an
ancestor from' whom the inheritance would be, derived. 2
Black. Com. 209. Such a construction would be in 4 grebt
measure defeating the whole operation of the act.
The demandant in this case -states in his count, that-up6n
the -death of Robert R. Randal, the right to -the land. deseenided to -Paul R. Randall and. Catherine Brewerton .in
moieties. So that, -by his own showing, she had a right of
entry, which, according to the express terms-of the decisions
in Jackson and Varick, was devisable.
The answer to this question -must accordingly be, that ihe
will of Catherine Brewerton--was sufficient to pass her. right
and interest in the premises in .question, notwithstanding.the
adverse possession held by the tenants in this suit, at the
date of the will.
IV. The fourth point stated is, whether fhe proceedings
against Paul Richard Randall, as an absent debtor, passed his
right or interest in the lands ih question to; and vested the

VoI.
III.-R.
-

SUPREME COURT,
[Inglis-vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

same in, the trustees appointed Under the said proceedings, or
either of them, so as to defeat the demandant in anyorespect.
Paul R. Randall, as stated in the case, died some time in the year 1820. He and his sister Mrs Brewerton were the
heirs at'law to the estate of their brother Robert Richard
Randali. 'If therefore the will of Mrs Brewerton operated.
to pass her right, Paul R. 'Randall .wbuld be entitled to the
other moiety. If her will' did not.operate, then he would
be entitled to the whole of his brother's estate.
It does not appear from the case that any objections were
made to tlie regularity ef the'.proceedings against Paul R.
Randall, under the absconding debtor act; and indeed the
question, as stated for the opinion of this court, necessarily
implies that no such objection existed. The question is,
whethier his'right in 'the land passed to, and became vested
in .the trustees.
As this is the construction of a state -law, this court will
be governed very much by the decisions of the state tribtinals.in relation to it. The question is, whether a right of entry'passes under the. provisions of the absconding'debtor act
of the state of New York, 1 Rev. Laws,
'157.By the first
.ection of the act, the warrant issued to the sheriff commands him to attach, and safely keep, all the estate, real and
personal,.of the debtor. The -tenth section a'uthorises the
trustees to take into their-hands all the estate of the debtor,
.whether attached as aforesaid or afterwards discovered'by
them;' and that the said trustees, fr6m their appointment,
shall be deemed vested with all the estate ofi such debtor,
and shall be 'capable -toSue for and recover the same. And
the trustees" are required to sell all the estate, real and per-_
sonal, of the debtor, as shall come to their hands, and execute deeds and bills of sale, which shall be as valid as if
made by the debtor himself.
These are The' only parts of the act which have a'material
bearing upon this point. And the first question that would
seem io arise is, whether the' term estate, as here used, will
e:tend to- the interest which the debtor has in lands held
adversely. An estafe in lands, tenements, and hereditanents,
signifies such interest as a person -has therein, and is, the con-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs: The Tr~stees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

dition or circumstance in which the owner stands with regard to his property. Coke. see. 345. a.. 2 Black: Com. 103;.
The language of the act is broad enough to include a
right of entry ; and there can be no reason to believe that
such was not the intention of the legislature.
The doctrine of the court of common pleas in England) in
the case of Smith vs. Coffin, 2 H. Black. 461, has a strong
bearing upon this question. The language of this absconding
debtor act, with respect to the estate of the debtor.to whidh
.it shall extend, is as broad as that of the English bankrupt
laws; and the same policy is involved in the construction.
In the case referred to, the court say, the plain spirit.of the
bankrupt -law is, that every benefiial 'interest which the
bankrupt has, shall be disposed of for the benefit of his creditors. On general principles, rights of action are not assignable, but that.is a rule founded on the policy of the comnon
-law, which isaverse to encouraging litigation. But the policy
of the bankrupt law requires that the right of action should be
assignable, and transferred to. assignees, as much as any other
species of proFerty. Its policy is, that every right, belonging
in any shape to the bankrupt, should pass to the assignees.
The estate of the debtor, under the New York statute,. becomes vested in the trustees, by the mere act and -operation
of law, without any assignment.
The courts in New York have given a literal bonstrilction
to this act, whenever it hascome under consideration, so as
to reach all the property of the absconding debtor. In-the
matter of Smith, an absconding debtor, 16 Johns. 107, the.
broad rule is'laid down that an attachment under. this act is
analogous to an execution. And in the case of JAan dy vs.
Dobbin, 12 Johns. 220, when the proceeding was under
another statute, 1 Rev. Laws, 398, very analogous to'the
one under consideration, the court say, .there can be no
doubt that the constable, under the attachment, could take
any goods and chattels which could be levied on by execution. The authority in. both cases is the same. And in
Jackson vs. Varick, 7 Cowen, 244, it is laid down as a rule
admitting of no doubt, that a right' of'entry may be taken
and sold under an execution.

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

It is said, however, that this-right of entry does not pass,
because, by the tenth section- of the act, it is declared, .that
the'deeds given b' the trustebs shall be as valid as if made

by the debtor, and that the debtor could not make a valid
deed of lands held at the time .adversely.
This objection does not .apply to the case: the question
does not arise upon the operation of a .deed given by the
trustees. The point is, whether the trustees themselves-had
any interest in these lands: not whether they would give
a -valid deed for them, -before reducing the right to' possesasion.. 'If it should b~e admitted that they could.not, it would
not affect the presept. question. The right is vested' in the
trustees by operation (f law, the act. declaring that the
estate shall 'be deemed vested in them on their appointment,
andthat they shall be capable to'sue for and ,recover the
same; implying thereby that.a suit may be necessary to reduce the estate of possession.
Again, it is said, that after such a lapse of time, it is to'be
presumed that all the.debts of Paul R.Randall .have -been
paid, and the trust of course satisfied; and that the estate
thereupon became reves.ted in Paul R. Randall.
This objection admits 'of-several answers. It does not
appear properly t-dise Under the point stated.. But the
question intended to be put would seem to -be, whether-the
right, being a mere right of entry, passed, and became vested in the trustees. If it did sovest, it could not be revested,
except by a recoinveyance, or by operation of law,.resulting
from a-performance of the trust, by paying off all the debts
6f the absent debtor. And whether these debts have'been
-satisfied, is a proper subject of inquiry for the grand assize.
There is not enough before this dourt to enable it to deciae
that point. It is a question of fact, and not of law. If it
-was,'admitted that all the debts have been satisfied,- the
effect of such satisfaction would .be a question of law. The'
evidence might probably warrant the grand assize in pre4uming payment; but even that may not be perfectly clear.
The order of the court upon the trustees to pay to the agent
or attorney of Paul R. Randall five tho.usand five hundred
dollars, out of the money remaining in their hands, does not

JANUARY .TERM 1830.
[Inglis -vs. The .Trustees of the Salor's Snug Harbour.]

purport to consider this sum as the surplus after payment of
all the debts. It was to be paid. out of the moneys remaining in the hands of the trustees, therby fully implying, that
their trust was hot closed.. And- if the'fact of payment and
satisfaction of the debts.is left at all doubtful, this court cannot say, as matter of law, that the interest in the land became
revested in Paul R. Randall. It must'depend upon the finding"of the grand assize.
It is objected, however, that the defence set up, -and
embraced in the two last questions, is inadmissible. That in
a writ of right, the tenant cannot, under the mise joined, set
up title. out of himself, and in a third person. That it is a
"question of mere right between 'the demandant and the' tenant. And it has been supposed, that this is the doctrine
of this court in the case of Green vs. Liter, 8 Cranch, 229.
If any thing that fell from the court in that case will give
countenance to such a doctrine, it is done away by the explanation given by the court in Green vs. Watkins, 7 Wheat.
31; and it is there laid down, that the tenant may*gi'!e in
evidence. the title of a third person, for the purpose of disproving the demandant's seisin. That a writ of right; does
bring into controversy the mere right of -tht parties to the
suit, and if so, it, by consequence, authorises either party
to establish by.e-vidence, that the other has no right whatever
in.
the dem@anded premises; or that his mere right is inferior
to that set up against him. And this is the rulb recognized
in 4he supreme court of New York. In the case of Ten
Eyck'vs. Waterberry, 7 Cwen, 52, the court say, that in a
writ of right, the mise puts the seisin in issue,- as the plea
of not guilty in ejectment puts in issue the title, hnd that
under 'the mise ariy thing may be given in evidence, except
collateral warranty, The same rule is laid down by the supreme.judicial court of Massachusetts, in the case of Poor
vs. Robinson, 10 Mass. Rep. 131 ; and such appears to be the
well settled rule in the English courts. Booth, 98, 115, 112.
3 Wilson, 420. 2 W. Black. Rep. 292. 2 Saund. 45f.
note 4. Stearns on Real Actions, 227, 228, 372.
The answer to this question will accordingly be in the
affirmative, unless the 'grand assize shall find that the trusts
have been fully performed; and if so, the interest in the land

SUPREME COURT.
[Ingli, t.s;
The Trustees of the Sailor'6 Snug Harbour.]

will by-'operation of law become. revested in Paul R.- Randall,
V. Anothet point submitted to this court is, whether, inasmuch as the count in.the cause isfor .the entire -right in'the
premises, the. demandaht. can recover a less quantity than
the gntirety.
This is rathbr matter of form, without involving materially
the merits of the case. -And as .the-action itself has' become
almost obsolete., it cannot be very important how. the point
is settled. I have not therefore pursued-the question to.see
how it would stand upon British'authority. The leaning of
the courts in that country, is against the .action, and against
even. allowing alm-ost. any amendments, holding parties -to
the most strict and rigid rules of pleading; and it may be'
that. he-.,nglish'.courts would consider, that .the recovery
must be according to th6 count. But whatever the xurle may
be there, I think it.is in-a great measure a matter of practice,
and that we are at libertylto adopt our rule on this subject.
-And no prejudice :can arise to the tenant by allowing the
demandant to" have judgment for and recover according to
the right which, upon 'tle'trial, 'he'shall establish in the demanded pr.emises. The cases referred to, showing that a
den andant may-abridge his plaint, do not apply to a writ of
right.. This is confined tQ the action of assize, and authorised by statute'21 Hen. 8, ch. 3. -This statute has been
adopted in New York, 1 Rev. Laws, 88, but does not help
the case.. But independent of any statutory provision, I sie
no good reason-why'the demandant should iot be allowed
to recover according to the interest proved, if less than that
which he has demanded.
It is the settled practice in the supreme judicial court in
Massachusetts, in a writ of entry, to allow the demandant.to
recover an undivided part ot the demanded premises. The
technical.objection, that the verdict and judgment do not
agree with the count, is deemea unimportant; the title being
the same as to duration and quality, and differing only in the
degree of interest between a sqle tenancy and a tenancy in
common; The tenant cannot be prejudiced by allowing this.
He is presumed to know his own title, and might have dis-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

claimed. The courts in that state consider, that with respect
to the -ight to renew a part of the land claimed, there, is no
distinction between a writ ofentry and an action of ejectrhen't. 2 Pick. 387. 3 Pick. 52. Nor is it perceived thatany
well founded distinction, in this respect, can be made.between the action of ejectment and a writ of right. •
The opinion of the court-upon this point is, that under a
count for the'entire right; a demandanf may recover a less
quantity than'the entirety.
Mr Justice JoHNSON.
I concur inthe opinion in favour of this devise; but this is
one of those cases in which I wish my. opinion to appear in
my own words.
This case coies up on a certified difference of opinion on
five points. 'I take them in their order on the'record, notthat in which'they were argued." The first, which is a technical question, and of minor importance, I shall pass over.
The second, which depends upon the civil or political relation in which the demandant Inglis stands to the state of
New Yo-k, has been exhibited under four aspects. The
first contemplating him as born in the city of New York
.before the the 4th of July 1776. The'second, as born after
that period, but before the British obtained possession 'of the
place of his birth. The third, as born in New York while
a British garrison; The fourth, as born hn American citizen,
before the treaty of peace, but having elected to adhere to
his allegiance to Great Britain. In the argument there was
a fifth aspect of the question presented, which depended upon the act of confiscation and banishment by the state against
the'father of the demandant. On the subject. of descent, in
Shanks's case, which having been argued first jn order, I had
prepared firstto examine; I have had occasion to remark, that
the right being claimed uider the laws of the particular
state in which the land lies, the doctrines of allegiance, as
applicable to the demandant, must be looked for in the law
of the state that has jurisdiction of the soil.
In this respect the laws of New York vary in nothing material from those of South Carolina. By the twenty-fifth arti-

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis Vs. The Trustees ot the Sailor's Snug Harbour. ]

.le of the 'constitution of New -York of 1777, the common,
]aw of England is. adopted into. the jurisprudence of the state.
By the principles of that law, the demandant owed allegiance to the king of Great Britain, as of his province of New
York. By the revolution that allegiance was transferred to
the state, and the common law declares that the individual
cannot put off his allegiance by any act of his own. There
was no legislative act passed to modify the'common law in that
respect; and as to the effect of the act of confiscation and
banishment, the constitution of the state' has in it two provisions which effectually protect the demanctant against any
defence that can be set up under the effect of that act. The
thirteenth article declares that "no member of the state .hall
.be disfranchised or deprived of any of the rights or privileges
secured to the, subjects ofthe state by that constitution, un-less by the laws of the land or the judgment of his peers."
And the forty-first declares, "1that no act of attainder shall
be passed by the legislature of the state for crimes other than
those committed before the termination of the present war,
and that such acts (which I construe to mean acts of attainder generally) shall not work a corruption of blood."
I shall therefore answer-the second question in the affirmative; that is, that he was entitled to inherit as a citizen, born
of the state of New York.
On the third question, there were two points made. i.
That Mrs BrewertonhIraving never entered, could not devise.
2. That the issue being joined upon the mere right, it was
not competent for the tenant to introduce testimony to prove
the,-interest out of the demandant, unless (I presume it was
meant) the right be proved to be in- the tenant. On the
first of'these points I am satisfied, that the" state of New
York has not suffered the exercise of the testamentary power
to be embarrassed with the subtleties of the English law respecting entries and adverse possessions. The words of their
statute of wills are broad enough 'to carry any right or interest in lands, and such practically seems to have-been the
uniform understanding in that state.
On the second point, under this question, the facts seem
to furrish a very obvious answer. Whatever be the rule in

JANUARY TERM 1880.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.].

other cases, and I do not feel myself called upon to say what
the rdle is, it certainly can have no application here,.since it
is through Mrs B.rewerton that the demandant has to trace
his title. Certainly then it must be a good defence, if the
tenant can establish -%at it could not pass through Mrs
Brewerton, if she had prevented its descending by an act -of
her own, valid to that purpose. That question also I. should
answer in the affirmative.
On the fourth question, I feel it difficult to give a precise
auswer. An attachment, and conveyance under it, are equivalent to an execution executed. But then there is reason
to believe, that the situation in which we find this attachment
is analogous to that of an execution, satisfidd without the
sale of this particular property levied, upon. Then could
'such an execution interfere with the rights of the heir '.
It does not appear to me that this question can be answered until'the fact of satisfaction can be affirmed or-ren
pelled. It is for or against the demandant, according to
that alternative.
The fifth"is the material' question, and since it has been
acknowledged in argument, that this 'suit was instituted on
the authority of the case of the Baptist Association, it is
necessary first to determine the doctrine which that case
establishes.
The devise there was of lands lying in Virginia; the intended devisee was an unincorporated society, described in
the will as meeting at Philadelphia; that society became
incorporate under a law of Pennsylvania, not of Virginia,
and then brought suit in equity in Virginia, to recover the
property devised.
At the hearing, the court decided upon the single question, "'whether the plaintiffs were -capable of taking under
that will," aind accordingly this court certify an opinion to
no other point. Its language is, "that the plaintiffs are incapable of-taking the legacy for which this suit was instituted-."
And, notwithstanding the marginal notes of the reporter to
the contrary, that I consider as the only point decided in
the .cause. What the law of the case would have been, had
the attorney general of Virginia been made a party. to the
VOL. III.-S

SUPREME COURT.
[fnglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.].

suit, and (I presume also as a necessary inference,) had the
society been incorporated by Virginia, in order to enable
them to take the legacy, this court expressly declines deciding (p. 50); and certainly it would have been deciding between parties not before it, had it undertaken in that suit to
pass upon the interest in, or power over-the subject existing
in the state of Virginia. The statute of 43 Eliz. had been
expressly repealed in Virginia, previous to the death of Hart,
the testator; and although the learned judge who delivered
the opinion of the court, goes so much at large into the origin, construction and effect of that statute, it could only
have been to prove all that the case required to have established, to wit, that it is under that statute alone that, even
in England, a court of equity could extend to the complainants the. relief which they craved. That statute being repealed in Virginia, it followed that the equity powers of the
state courts, and of consequence that of the circuit court
of the United States, could no longer be exercised over the
subject of the charities embraced in that statute ; that the
state of.Virginia, where the land lay, and not the state of
Pennsylvania, stood in the relation of parens patrim, and
therefore, that those powers and those rights which the crowr,
exercises over charities in England, in order to sustain and
give effect to them, could only be exercised in that case by
Virginia.
So far I consider the decision as authority, and so far it
would require more than ordinary ingenuity to excite a reasonable doubt 'of its correctness. I consider it as too plain
to be questioned, that the powers which the court of chancery in Great Britain exercises over bequests of 6harities, in
cases where'the interest cannot vest .under the rigid rules of
law, as applied to other bequests, is vested in that court by,
or rather usurped under the statute of Elizabeth. I am not
now speaking, it must be noted, of the power of the crown
in such cases, but of the portion of the prerogative power
over charities now exercised 'by the court of chancery ifi
that. kingdom.
I consider it as conclusive to prove the peculiar origin of
this power, that there lies no appeal from the decision of the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug llafbour.]

chancellor in charity cases. Cro. Cha. 40, 351. 4 Viner's
Abridg. 496. And when cases occur not enumerated in
the statute of Elizabeth, or not strictly analogous thereto,
the crown still exercises the power of disposing of themby
.sign ninual. See the cases collected in Viner, Charit. Uses,
G. 3, and note ; also, 7 Ves. 490. So that Were the statute
of Elizabeth repealed in England to-morrow, I see not by
what abthority, this power could be exercised even there in
the chancery courts. The history of this branch of the chancellor's jurisdiction pioves that it-could not be.
The plain object of the act of 43 Eliz. i's to place in commission a troublesome branch of the royal prerogative, and
to vest the commissioners with power to institute inquests of
office, or by other means to discover charities, or the abuse
or misapplication of charities, and to authorise the board to
exercise the same reach of discretion over such charities
as the crown possessed ; subject, however, to a revising and
controlling.power in the lord chancellor; not a mere judicial power, but a ministerial legislation and absolute power;
-a power,.however, secondary or appellative in its nature, not
original.- This controlling power being absolute and final)
soon swallowed up its parent; and -became original and absolute. One judge admitted- the precedent of an Qriginal
bill in a charity case, a secorid judge satisfied his scruples
upon that precedent, and other judges fdllowing, regarded
it as a settled practice. But in whatever way the power is
exercised, whether as original or appellate, no other, authority for its exercise has ever been claimed by the chancellor
but the 43d Elizabeth.
The correctness of the decision of this court therefore in
the Baptist Association case cannot,' I. think, be disputed.And yet it does in no wise affiect the case now before us.
But, it is argued that, if the statute 43 Elizabeth be in force
in New York, and its courts can exercise an original powerunder it, or if they can prrsue the intermediate steps nez
cessary to the exercise*of.an appellate or revising power,
(six-iri-number, I think, lord Coke, makes them, 2' Inst.) still
it-can only be a suit in chancery, in the name of the people,
or of thei- attorney general, or of the corporation constituied'

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

by them, although vested with all their interest in, or power
over the subject.
To me-it appears demonstrable,-that the 43 Elizabeth introduces no new law of charities, makes none valid not valid
before it, passed, .but simply places the right and power of
the court over charities in other hands, If this were not the
case, why should bequests to the universities and great schools,
bequests in all cases constituting private visitors, and beqi16ts to towns corporate, (section 2 and 3) hospitals,, &c.
be excepted from its operation . Why should a more liberal
rule be introduced with regard to the enumerated indefinite
charities and the excepted cases remain subject to a more
rigid system q Certainly the enumerated exceptions in that
statute can, lose nothing in point of merit or claim to public
protection and indulgenee, by comparison with those acted
upon by the statute. Indeed, the preamble explicitly confines the views of the. lgislature to enforcing the application of the charities according t6 the charitable interest of
the donor ; it is the organization of a machine for carrying
that interest into effect, without intioducing any new rule of
law on the subject of construing, applying, or effectuating
that intention.
What then was the law of that day, of the time when the
43 Elizabeth was passed, on the subject of charitable doriations ? It was a system peculiar to the subject, and governed
by rules which were applicable to no other; asystem borrowed from the civil law, almost copied verbatim into the common law writers. This will diptinctly appear by comparing
Domat with Godolphin, in the Oriphan's Legacy.
It has been said that there are neither adjudged cases nor
dicta of elementary Writers on the subject of the- law as it
stood previous to the 43 Elizabeth ; but this I think is not.
quite correct. In Swinburn or Wills, as well as Godolphin's Orphan's Legacy, both books of great antiquity.and of
high authority, we find all the rules for construing, enforcing and effectuating charities which have been maintained
and acted upon -in the chancery since the 43 Elizabeth, laid
down as the existing laws of charitable devises; and'yet the
statute of Elizabeth is not quoted by either as the authority

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Ingl vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

for their doctrines ; but their. margins are filled with quotations from books which treat of the civil and common law..
God. Orph. Leg. See. Ed. 1676, P. 1, ch. 5, sec. 4, p. 17.
Swinb. on Wills, P. 1, sect. 16. And in so modern a book as
Maddock's Cha. Vol. I. 47, we find the law laid down in
these words: " it has been an uniform rule in equity, before
as well as after the statute of 43 Elizabeth, ch. 4, that where
uses are charitable, and the person has in himself fall power
to convey, the court will aid a defective conveyance to such
uses; and then goes on to enumerate all that'variety of cases
to which the English courts have applied the latitudinous
principle, that the statute of charitable uses supplies ail the
defects of an assurance which the donor was dupable of
making, even to a devise by a lunatic.
Nor are'these authors without adjudications tosustain the.
position, that the law was such before as well as after the
statfite 43 Elizi Rolt's Case in Moore, p. 855, was the case
of a will which occurred long,before the statute of Eliz. passed, The dbvisewas of land not in use, and not devisable
by law or custom; so that had it been to an individual, it had
been clearly void. Adcordingly, the heir at law entered; yet,
after the statute of Elizabeth, it was hunted up and returne4
upon inquest, under the statute; and the lord chancellor on
an appeal, having called in the aid of the two common law
chief ju8tices, they all held it a good limitation or appointment. Now there never has been a time when a subsequent
statute, general in its provisions, as- was ihat of charitable
uses, could divest a right legally descended upon an heir at
with:.
law. It follows-, that the devise must have been good
out the aid of -that statute ; this decision took place in court
twenty years after the date of the statute.
Sn also in Revett's Case in the same book, p. 890, when
the will was made and the death of the devisor took-place in
1586, about seven years before the statute of'43 Elizabeth,
and there-had been no surrender, the land being copyhold,
so that the devise to the charity was clearly void if made to
an individual, and accordingly the -younger son entered;
the charity was enforced against a purchaser from the heirs,

142

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis v8. The Trustees bf the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

under the idea that it was good as an appointment ; clearly
in pursuance of the rule, that wherever the donor has power

to convey, and manifestly-'intends t6 convey, ,the law will
make g~od every deficiency in favour of charities.
-

And in the case of sir Thontas M'iddleton,-which also hap-

pened before the statute, and where the legal defect lay in

the leghl insufficiency of the party in interest, and which
was not a case of devise, yet it was held good.
It is true Perkins gives an instance of a very early date
.(4'0 Edw. 3; see-Perkins, see. 510), of a-devise to a society
not incorporated with power to purchase, in which-the devise
was held void ; but on- that case it may be remarked, that as
the clergy had an exclusive possession of the court ofcdhan-cery for many years after, (to 26 Henry 8), it- is .easy to per.eeive how the law of charities came -to be improved 'towhat it appears to have been at the date of the cases quotedfrom Moore. And-there. are two other remarks applicable
to the cases in Perkins. In a modified sense those devises
are 'held to be void e 'en at this day, and, to need the aid of a
royal prerogative still existing in the court, to relieve'the
devisees against the rules of the 6 omffnon law. It is obvious
that property, devised to charities under such circumstances
as prevent its vesting, by the -rules of the common law, 'is
placed in a situation ailbgous to that of-e~cheat, and afterwards disposed of under the king's sign-manual, according to
his conscience,. actual or constitutional ; so that in a trial at
common law; such devise would be held void, unless aided
by prerogative power.
. And secondly, there is this difference between the case in.
Perkins and the present case, that the former is dxpressed in
words which contemplate. vesting presently; the latter, in
words Which contemplate a future vesting : which I consider
an all important feature in.the present case, and ohie which
may- give validity to the present.devise, without resorting io,
the aid of those principles which appear peculiar to charitable bdquests.But, as a charity, to be governed by the law of the state of
New York, it-ape'ars'to me'almost idle to view thiscase with
-

.. JANUARY TERM 1830,
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

reference to any other rule of deefsionthan their own adjudications. The case of the Trustees of New. Rochelle, 8
Johns. Ch. Rep. p. 292, was a: case of greater difficulties
than .the present; for there the de ise is immediate in presenti, to a'devisee having no capacity to take at the time.
The. legislature afterwards gave that capacit', and the court
held the devise valid; nor is it unimportant in that case to
oserve, that the case in Ambler, 422, of the devise to "the
poor inhabitants of St Leonard's Shore-Ditch," is recognised
as authority'; as well as that of the Attorney General -vs.
Clarke, in the same book, 651.
Now this decision seems full to these points:'. 1. That the
Iegislature of that state can, ex post facto; give acapacityto take a charity, where there was no such capacity existing
at the time of devise over, is a case where the future'existence of that capacity was not contemplated by the testator.
2. That an act of incorporation, with capacity to take, dispenseswith the presende of the representative of the state,
in. a suit to recover such a charity.
What more can be required in the present case, especially
where the devisee is the party demardant.
It'is no objection to the authority or the New Rochlle,
case,. that it was a suit in equity; for in,a ease like the pre,sent, where nothing is-wanting but a competent party to sue
or be sued;whenever that party comies in essethere can be
no reason why the suit should nuot be at law, if courts of law
are competent to give relief. Had the devise been void in
the case referred to, the estate must have vested .in the Ieaal
representative, and could no more have been shaken in.
equity than at law.
But I have said, that the defendant here might dispense
with the aidof the peculiar principles of the law ofcharities3
-and my opinion distinctly is, that the devise, is good upon
general principles, in every respect, unless it be in the time
of vesting'; then it is not -restricted within the legal-limits,
since the legislature may, by possibility, never constitute the
corporation contemplated in the will.
Itis in generaLtrue, that where there is a present i mniediate devise, ihere. must exist -a competent.devisee, and a

1.44

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

present capacity .to take. But it is equally true, that if there
exists the- least circumstance from which to collect the testator's contemplation or intention of any thing else.than an
immediate devise to take effect in presenti, then, if confined within the legal limits, it is good as an executory devise.
This is the case of a deviseto an infant in ventre sa mere;
and this the ground of the distinction in Hobart 33, of a present devise to a corporation where it is or is not in progress
towards positive existence.
Now the present case is one clearly of an alternative devise
to such and such official characters, if by virtue of that devise they can take in -perpetuity and succession; and if not,
then to them when constituted a.body politic by positive
statute. Here is clearly contemplated a futurevesting, to
depend on a capacity to take, to be created. by a legislative
act - and if the passing of that legislative act had been'rest'icted by the will,, in point -of time, to the lives of the individuals filling those offices at the time of the death of the
testator, on what possible ground could the devise have been
impeached 1
Does then the law invalidate the devise for want of such
restriction, or some other equivalent to it .! It is perfectly
clear that the -law of England does not, and never did, as
relates to charities; at least where there- has been no previous disposition. -In this respect it seems to constitute an
exception to the law of executory devises; as is implied in
the generaf reference to 1hd prerogative,of ihe crown to give
it legal efficiency, by his'sign manual, and as is distinctly recognised in the-case of the Trustees;of New Rochelle, in the
cou ts of New York; a case- in which the plaintiffs might as
well have waited for ever upon the legislative will, as in the
present case.
There may'be- a -reason.for this, distinction, since it depends upon.-tle ..sovereign will-to prevent the perpetuity at
once; and. the presumption -is, that the legislature will not
delay to do that which it'ought to do. And whence at last.
ar,ises this rule, against perpetuities? It is-altogether an act
-of judicial legislation,.-operating -as-a proviso to the statute
ofwills; a restrid7op upon the testamentaiy powex. The

-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis us. The Trustees of the Sailors Snug Harbour.] ,

authority from which the exception -emanated cbuld certainly
limit it so as to prevent its dxtension to an object under tle
care of the sovereign power.
Upon the whole, I am bf opinion that the act of inc6rpo .
ration was at least equivalent to the king's sign manual, and
vested a good legal estatein the tenant.- That although in
the interval it -hould have descended upon the -heir, it descended subject to be divested and passed over by that exercise of prerogative power.. But i perceive no necessity for
admitting that it ever descended upon the heir; sincethe
-right of succession seems rather -to be 'in the commonwealth
in- the case of charities, .as parens patrite.

Mr Justice

STORY.

This'cause was argued with great ability and learning at
the last term of this court, and has-been beld-under-advisement until this time. In -the interval, I have prepared an
'opinion upon all the points argued by counsel; and upoi,
one of those points of leading importance; I have now the
misfortune to differ from'a majority of 'My brethren. Upon
another leading point, that of the alienage of the demandant,
my 6pinion coincides generally with that 6f the majority
of- the court; but the reasons, on ihich it is founded, are
given more at large" than in that now delivered by my..bro- .
ther Thompson. Under these circumstances, I propose to
deliver' my opinioh at large upon all the points afgued in the
cause, mainly in the order in which'they .were- discussed by
the counsel. It is not without reluctance that I deviate from
my usual practice of submitting in silence to the decisions
of.my -brethren, when I dissent from them; and I trust,'that
the deep. interest of the questions, and the novelty of the.
aspect under which some -of them are presentedi will furnish.an apblogy for'my occupying so much time;
The first point is, whether-the devise in the will 6f Robert .
R. Randall of the lands -in questioii, is--a valid devise, so as
to divest thei,:.eir at -law of his legal estate, or to affect the
lands in his hands with a trust.
• In considerihg this question, it appears to me that'this
court is to look into the terms of the will, and to construe
VOL. III.-T -

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's.Snug Harbour.]

it according to the intention of the testator. That intention
has been justly said to constitute the pboe star to guide
courts in the exposition of wills..When the intention is once
fairly ascertained, it is wholly immaterial that it cannot be
carried into effect by the principles of law;, for our duty
is to interpret, and not to make wills for testators.
In looking at the terms of the present devise; it appears
to me clear, that 6e,testator's iritention was to vest in certain
persons, in their official, and not in their private capacity,
,all the residue of his estate fdr a certain charity stated in
the devise .. The language is, "I give and bequeath the
same.unto the.chancellor of the state of New York, the
mayor and recorder of-the city of New York, the president
of the chamber of commerce," &c. &c. Did he by these
terms 'mean to devise to the individuals- who then occupied
these offices, the estate in question, or to the persons who
might hQld them at the time .of his death, or to the persons
who might successively from time to time hold them !. It
was certainly competent for him to devise to th.em personally, and in. their private capacity, by their official description. If a testator were by his will to give an estate.to the
bishop of New York for life, or to"him and his heirs, with :.
outgiving,hirr his christian or surname, there is no doubt
that the devise might well take effect, as a devise to the then
incumbent in office, as a descriptio personw. The law does
not require, to make a-devise. or legacy valid, that the party
should be designated by his name of baptism or surname.
It is sufficient if he be po-ntcd out by an, description, leaving no room for doubt as to the identity and certainty, of the
person. A devise to the eldest son of A. is just as good as
if his name were given. A devise to the present president
of the United States could be just as good as if his name
were written at large in the will. The maxim of law is, that
the designation must be certain as to the .person to.take
anrd id certum est, quod- certum reddi potest. There is no
doubt, then, that the chancellor,- mayor and recorder, &c.
&e.intentibn
of New York might take as individuals, if suoh were
.the
of.the testator. I.go farther and say, that if
the.,testator did intend the pregent -devise to. them in-their

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

private characters, they would take not merely an estate for.
life in the premises, but an estate in.fee. My reason is, that
the scope and Objects'of the charity, being perpetual, Tequire that construction of the will to carry into effect the
intention of the testator(a).
But the difficulty is in arriving at the conclusibn upon theterms of the will, that the testator did mean any devise to
them in their private capacities. It is manifest from his language, that he did not devise to the then chancellor, mayor
and reporder, &c. &c. in their private capacities, because
his language is, that it is.to the chancellor, &c. &c." "for
the time being, and their respective successors-in the said
officesfor ever." It is then a devise to them, as officers, during their continuance in office, and the estate isto go to
their successors in officefor ever; so that none of the devisees are to takeany certain estate to themselves, but only
while they continue in office. It is said that the court may
reject the latter words, if inconsistent with the avowed 'intention and objects of the will. If-the. other language of the
will required an interpretation of these words different from
the ordinary meaning, there might be good ground for such
an argument; but that the devise will, in .point of law, be.
come ineffectual if they are not rejected, furnishesno ground
for the court to exclude them. Words-which are sensible
in the place where they occur, and express the tes tator's
intention, are not to be rejected because the law will not'
car-y into effect that intention. If it were otherwise, courts
of law would make willsi and not construe them. But what
ground is there to say, that the words " for the time being,"
and "their successors in office" ought to be rejected! 'The
former clearly designate m;hat chancellor, mayor and-recorder, &c. &c. are meant. How then can the court take one
part and rejv'ct the other part of the description!. How can
the court say that ihe testator meant 'the then incumbents
in office, when he has spoken of them as the incumbents
for the time being '2 His intention clearly is that the charity shall be a perpetuity. He devises to the successors in
(a) Cruise's Digest. Devise, eha. It, sect. 72.

148

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs; The Tustees of the.Sailqis Snug Harboar.]

office for ever. They are to be the administrators of the
charity for ever. Upon what ground can the odurt exclude
the successors from the administration of the charity, when
the'testator i6s, so #designated .them q - Why -may' we not
equally well exclude the present incumbents, as the future!
Both are named in the will; both ate equally within the
view of the iestator of equal regard. Suppose all the other
incumbents had died, or had been reiiove&.from. office, is
therea'word in the will that shows that they or their heirs
could still act as tiustees, when 'they ceased- to -possess
'Office, in exclusion of the actual incumbents . "f not,. how
can the court sa ' that it -will defeat- the -main intention as
to the administrators, and yet fulfil the chkrity as the.'testator designed it should be- executed .
1 But this exposition does not, rest on a single clause of the
will. . It pervades it in all the importani clauses. In another
clause of the will, the testator directs.that the trustees.shall
administer the. charity "'in such manner as the said-trustees
or amajority of them may from time to time, or their successors in office may; from time to time direct." And- again,
the. testator adds, "iA i.s my intention that. the institution
hereby directed and created should be "perpetual,and that
the above mentioned officers for. the time being,. and their
successors should for ever continue and be the governors
thereof, and have the superintendence of the same." Here
is a most deliberate re-statement of his intention and objects.
The go'vernors and administrators of hi. charity are not to
be the then incumbents in office, but the officersfor the time'
being; not the individuals when out of of .,e, but their successors in office. What right thpn can. this court have to
say that the'successors in office shall, not be governors-.
Would it not be a plain departure from the express. intention and solemn declarations of the will q The testator
seems to have been apprehensive, that after all there might
be some. impediment in carrying his intention. into effect.
What then does he provide ? That his intention shall be.
disregarded? That provisions of his will, as to successors,
&c. &c. shall be disregarded or rejected ?. No, so far from
it, that he .goes on to provide for the. emergency, so as to

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Haiboqr.]

give full effeci to his intention. His words are, "that it is
my will and desire, that if'it cannot be legally done, accord-'
ing to my.above intention, by them (the trustees) without an
act of the legislature, it is my will and desire that they will
as soon as possible apply for-an act of the.legislature to incorporate them for the purposes above specified'
So that
the successors in the manner above mentioned constituted
a primary, as well as a perpetual object of the devise. It
seems to me so plain and clear upon the language of the will,
that the tes.tator never abandoned the intention of having
the trustees take in their official and not in "their private
capacity, -that with great -deference to the judgment of
others, I am unable to perceive any ground on which to rest
a differeit opinion.
If this is so, then it is next to be considered whether such
devise is void at law. I am spared the-necessity of going at
large into that question,, by the decision of this court in the
case .of.the Trustees of-the Philadelphia Baptist Association
v8. Hart's Executors, 4 Wheat. Rep.. 1, where the subject
S.6-was very amply discussed ; and for reasons, in' my judgment
Unanswerable, it was there decided that such a devise was
void 'at law. Upon that occasion I had prepared a separate
opinion; but that of the chief justice was so satisfactory to
me, that I did notdeem it necessary to deliver my own.
If the devise was void at law at the time when it was to
have effect; viz. at the death of the testator, the subsdquent
act of the legislature of New York could not have any effect
to divest the veste'd legal title of the'heirs of the testator.
The devise was not a devise to* corporation not in esse,
and to be created in futuro. It was a devise in-presenti, to
persons who should be officers at the death of the testator,
and-to their successors.in office. The vesting of the deiise
was not to be postponed to a future time,•until a corporation
could be created.'. It was to take immediate-effect; and if
the trustees could rnot exercise their.powers in the manner
prescribed by the testator, they were to apply to the legislature for at act of incorporation. Asiuming, then, that a
devise.per verba de futuro, to a corporation not in esse, which

150

SUPREME COURT.
[Inllis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

is to take effect when the corporation should be created,
would be good, and vest, by-way of executory devise, in
the corporation when created, as seems to have been lord
chief justice Wilmot's opinion (Wilimot's Opinion, p. 15) ; it
is a sufficient answer that such i not the preseit case. From
the other report of the same case, Attorney General vs.
Downing, Amb. 550, 571, and Attorney General vs. Bowyer, 3 Ves, 714, 727, I should deduce the conclusion, that
the case turned upon the peculiar doctrines of the court of
chancery in respect to charities; -and that Lord Camden's
opinion was founded on that. His judgment is not, as far
as I know, in print; .and whether he thought that at law a
devise in futuro to an executory corporation would be good,
does not anpear. In the case before him he acted upon it
as a chariLable.trust, not as a devise of the-legal estate(a).
But*it is said, that -theie are cases in which it has been
held, that a devise to persons in their official capacity .is
good to the party in his natural capacity; and that it is not
true, that, because the devisees cannot,take in succession,
they tanniot take at all a case from Brook's Abridgement, title Corporation, pl. 3-4, is relied on. There the principal
point was of a-different nature: whether a corporation composed of a master and fraternity, could present the master toa benefice. -.And Pollard, J. on that occasion said, "if J. S.
is dean of P. I- may give land to him by th&name of dean,
&c. and his successors, and to J. S. and his heirs, and there
he.shall take as dean, and also as a private man; and he is
teant.in common with himself." Now, the plain meaning
of this is, that because he took-one moiety in his official capacity to him and his succesors,-ihat did not disable- iim.to
take the other moiety to him and his heirs,- but he held the
latter-in his private capacity. Another case is from Co. Litt.
46, b. where it is said,,if a lease for years be made td C
bishop and his successors, yet his executors and administrators shall have it in-autredroit;-for regularly no chattel can
go irrsuccession in-case of a sole corporation, no more than
(a) See also, 1 Roll, Ab. Devise, H. sec. 1.

Com. Dig- Devise,.K.

JANUARlY TERM 1830.

151

[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

if a lease be made to a man and his heirs, it can go to. his
heirs(a). Now, in the case of a sole corporation, it is manifest that the intention is to give the chattel to the actual incumbent in office, for his life, and he is entitled to hold it
beneficially. Butno chattel-can pass in succession; and then
the question arises, whether the court will declare the gift
void, as to the residue of the term, or consider the'gift absolute. The construction adopted has been to consider the
intent to be executed cyjpres;, and, as the testator intended
t9 give the whole, to vest the term absolutely inthe-bishop,
and then by operation of law it would go to his assigns. But
this is a case of a sole corporation, where' the party is capable to take in his corporate, as well as in his natural capacity
for life. The'present is a case of aggregate persons, not capable of taking in a corporate capacity. To give the estate
to them in their natural capacity, and for life only, would
defeat the testator's intention; for he meant a perpetuity of
trust, and to persons in office, however often the incumbenits
might change: to give them, in their natural capacities, an
estate for life when not officers; would defeat the primary
object which he had in view. He meant'no beneficial inte-"
rest to any incumbent, but a charitable trust to a succession
of official trustees(b).
It ii also said, that in a will a particular may be made- to
yield tor
a' more- general intent. Certainly it may; but-then
the difficulty in the application of this. iule to the present
case is, -that the argument insists upon. a construction which'
I cannot but deem an overthrow of the general, to subserve an intent not indicated. Because the testatorhas expressed an ihtent to be carried into effect one way, which
cannot consistently by law be so; and the court can see another way, by which he might have carried it into effedt, if
be had thought of it; -itdoes not follow that the court can do
that which the testator .might have done, and new model
the provisions 6t" the will. If a testator should per verbade presenti devise an estate to a corporation not in esse,
(a) See Co. Lit. 9, a.
(.a) See 2 Preston on Estates, E, 6, 7, 46, 47, 48. Corn. Dig. Estates. a. 2.'

SUPREME COURT.
[Ifiglis vs. The Trustees bf the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

and he knew the fact, or mistook the law, the court could
not construe the words as de futuro, and declare it a good
devise to a corporation to be created in futuro. The case
in 1 Roll. Abridg. Devise, H. 1. 50, is decisive of that. The
general intention here appears to me to be to create a perpetual trust in certain trustees in succession; for charity; and
I can perceive no particular intent, as distinguishable from
that general intent. The perpetuity, the succession and the
trusteeship, are.in his view equally substantial ingredients.
So far from allowing, any other than the official trustees to.
administer it, he even points out that if the trust cannot be
executed by them, the estate, if it descends-to his heirs, shpll
descend clothed with a trust. And he even appoints the
same trustees and their successors in o.ffce executors of his
will.
I come now to the other part of the question, whether,. if
the.devise be void at law, the estate in ihe hands of, the
heirs is affected with the trust in favour of the charity. It
appears to me most manifest, that it is affected by the trust,
if we consult either the intention of the testator or the express terms of the will. The closing paragraph of the will
is, in my vie* of it, decisive,, as creating an express trust in
the heirs. "It is," says the testator, "my desire, all courts of
law and equity will so construe this my said will, as to have
the estate appropriatedto the above uses; and that the same
should in no case, for want of form or otherwise, be construed as that my relations, or any other persons, should heir,
possess, or enjoy my property, except in the manner and for
the uses herein above specified."
If no trustees had been named in the will to execute the
charity, it seems to me very clear that these terms would have
created a trust in the heirs. There cannot, as I think, be a
doubt, that independent of the statute of mortmain, 9 Geo.
2, ch. 26, the present devise would be held a good charitable devise, and would be enforced in equity, at least since
the statute of 43d of Elizabeth of charitable uses. The case
of White'vs. White; of Attorney General vs. Downing,
Amb. Rep. 550, 571 ; of Attorney General vs. Tancred,
Amb. 351, S.C. I Eden's Rep. 10; and of Attorney Gene-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snbg Harbour.]

ral vs. Bowyer, V
Yes. 714, 717, would alone be decisive';
but there arer many'-others to the same effect(a). Whether
1he statiute" of -43 Elizabethis. in force in the "state'ofNew.
York,'or whether, independent .of any enactment, a cburt of
equity could efiforce'this "as: a.charitable trust in the exer.cite-of- its general jurisdiction,, or as the delegate, for this
purpose,-of the parenta1'prerog~ative of thestate.; or whether
such court-could-hold it .utterly.void-; it is unhecessary" for
us. to consider; thatpoint imay- well -enough be -left to the
,decision. of.- .e'properstate tribunal, when the case shall
-come befdre it," At present I do not think it necessary to
say more, than that'if the trust be utterly void, then the heirs
vould by operatiod of law take the legal, estape stripped Of
the trust. If the trust be good, then it is knit to, the estate,
'and thb heirs take. it subject to the trust.
But it is said, that -ifthe 'trust be.valid, the legislature had
a-perfect rigit to enforce, it, and their act bf incorporati6n
amounts'to a- legal eiecution of the trusts, and vests the
estate in the corporation. Now, whatever may be the rights
of-the state,. ai parens patrim, io enforce -this charity, it can
enforce it only as a. trust. If the legal estate isvested in
the heirs. subject to 'the trut., the legislature cannot- by any
act, ipso facto, divest that legal title, and transfer it-to the
corporation. It is one thing to enforce' a charitable trust,
and quite another thing -to destroy the -legal rights of.-the
pairtiels to'which.- it is'attached. * If the devise, had been. to
certain trustees by name, upon truit-for the charity; couldthe legislature have a right to divest, the legal title !. The
case of the trustees-of Dartmouth College vs. Woodward,
4 Wheat. Rep. 518,- in its principles, bears against such- a
doc'trine. The fight to enforce ihe trust"and*.operate upon
the legal estateis a right to be exercised by judicial tribunals, and not by legislative decrees. The doctrine of the
supreme court of New York is, that the legislature thereof
has no authority to divest vested legal rights(b).
(a) See note on Charitable Uses, 4 Wheat. Rep. Appendix, 1, 11, 12.

Cog.

geshal vs. Felton, 7 Johns. Cha. Rep. 2b2. Kirkbank vs. Hudson, 7 Price, 212.
Duke Charitable Uses, byBridgman, p. 361, 374, 375, 390.,
(b) Dash vs. Van Cleek, 7 Johns. Rep. 477. Bradshaw vs. Rogers, 20 John .

VOL. III.-U

154

SUP1REMEk COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

But I cannot admit that the act of incorporation was intended to have such an effect ; it has no terms which-divest
the legal title of the heirs ; it merely incorporates -the tfustees and their successors, and clothes them with the usual
powers to carry the trust into effect. It presupposes that the
estate was already vested in them by the will. They are
made "capable in law of holding and disposing of the
estate" devised by the will. It is true that the uses are added,
"and the same (estate) is hereby declared to be vested in,
them and their successors in office for the purposes therein
(in the will,) expressed." ' But this was not, as I think, in'tended to vest the estate in them as a legislative investiture;
but to declare that the estate was vested in them for the purposes of the charity, and -not otherwise. The preamble of
the act too shows, that the trustees did not ask to have the
estate vested in them but that inconveniences had arisen in
the management of the estate fron the changes of office.
Thiis is very strong to show that the legislature acted solely
for the purpose of avoiding such inconveniences, and not to
give them an estate to which they then had no title, and
which they then professed to have in their managemeni.
In every view, therefore, in which.I can contemplate this
point, I feel compelled to say that the devise, if a valid devise,
is not a devise valid so as to divest the heir at law of his
legal estate ; but that the devise can have' effect, if at all,
only as a trust for a charity fastened on the legal estate in
his hands.
Ir this opinion as to the nature and effect of the devise,
in which I 'have the misfortune to differ from that of the
court, I am authorised to say that I have the concurrence of
the chief justice.
Another question is, whether the demandant was'or was
not capable of ttiking lands in the state of New York by descent . And this question is presented upon four different
aspects of the facts.
In order to explain the views which I take of this part of
Rep. 103. Catlin vs. Jackson, 8 Johns. 520.
Wilkinson vs. Leland, 2 Peterz 627, 657.

Terrett vs. Tylor, D Cranch, 93.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

the case, it will be necessary to state some general Principles
upon the-subject of alienage. The rule commonly laid down
in the books is, that every person who is born within- the
ligeance of a sovereign is a subject; and, e converso, that
every person born without such allegiance is an alien. This,
howe.ver, is little more than a mere definition of terms, and
affords no light to guide us in the inquiry what constitutes
allegiance, and who shall be said to be born within the allegiance of a particular sovereign ; or in other words, what
are the.facfs and circumstances from which the law deduces
the conclusion of citizenship or alienage. Now, allegiance
is nothing m6re than the tie or duty of obedience'of a subject to the sovereign under whose protection he is; and
allegiance by birth, is that which arises -from being born
within the dominions and under the protection of a particular.
sovereign. Two things usually concur to create citizenship;
first, birth locally within the dominions of the sovereign ;
and secondly, birth within the protection and obedience,
or in other. words, within the ligeance of'the sovereign.
That is, .the-party -must be born within a place where the
sovereign is at the time in full possession and exercise of
his power, and the party must also at his birth derive protection from,, and consequently owe obedience or allegiance to the sovereign, as such, de.facio(d). There are some
exceptions, which are founded- upon peculiar reasons, and
which, indeed, illustrate and confirm the general doctrine.
Thus, a person who is born on the ocean, is a subject of
the prince to whom his-parents then owe allegiance; for hfe
is still deemed under the protection of his sovereign, and
born.in a place where he has dominion in common with'all
other sovereigns. So the children of an ambassador are
held to be subjects of the prince whom he represents, although born under the. actual protection and in the domi-'
nions of a foreign prince. Birth within the'dominions of a
sovereign is not always sufficient to create citizenship, if the
party at the time does not derive protection from its sove(a) .See Calvin's casel 7 Co. 1. Doe ex deme.of'Duroure, vs, Jones, 4 Te'rm
Rep. 800 I Bl. Comm.

SUPREME COURT.
[inglis tv. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

reign in virtue of his actual possession; and on the other
hand, birth within the allegiance of a foreign sovereign,
does not alway? constitute allegiance, if that allegiance be
of a temporary nature within the dominions of another sovereign. Thus the children of enemies, born in a place within
the dominions of another sovereign, then occupied by them
by conquest, are still aliens ; but the children of the natives,
born during, such temporary ,occupation by conquest, are,
upon a reconquest or reoccupation by the original sovereign,
deemed, by a sort of postliminy, to be .subjects from their
birtli, although they were then under the actual sovereignty
and llegiance of an enemy.
The general principle of the common law also is,.that the'
allegiance thus due by birth, cannot be dissolved by' any act
of the subject. It remains perpetualunless it is dissolved by
the consent of the sovereign or by operation of law. Upon
the cession of a couny.ry, it passes to the new sovereign; for
he sovereign power is competent to transfer it by a voluntary
grantu .Upon the conquest of the country it passes by operation df law to the conqueror; who as soyereign de facto has a
right to the allegiance of all who are'subdtied by his power,
and submit to the protection of his arms. . Upon the abdication f the government by one prince, it passes by operation
of law to him whom the nation appoints as his successor.
Thusi by the conquest of England, the allegiance of all Englishmen passed to William the Conqueror; .bythe abdication
of James II. their allegiance passed to William of Orange;
and by the cession to France of the Anglo-.French provinces.
,of England, the allegiance of the natives passed to the new'
sovereign. These'cases are-plain enough upon the doctrines
of municipal law, as well as upon those which-are recognized in the law of nations.
But a cae of more nicetyand intricacy is, when a country
is divided by acivil war, and each party establishes a separate
andindependent form of govern ment. There, if the'old.governiphent is completely overthrown, and dissolved inruins, the
all Igiance by birth would sedm by operation of law to be dissolled, and the subjects left to attach themselves to sutrh party
ashey may choose, and thus to become the voluntarysubjects,

JANUARY TERM' 1830.

157

(Ingtis
vs.,The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.j

not by birth but by adoption, of either of the new governments.
But where the old government, notwithstanding the division,
remainsin operation, there is more difficulty in saying, upon
the doctrine of the common law, that their native allegiance
to such government is gone, by the mere fact that they adhere
to, the separated territory of their birth, unless there be some
art of the old government virtually admitting the 'rightful
existence of the new. By adhering to the new government,
they may indeed acquire all the rights, and be subject to all
the duties of a subject to such government. But it doeg.not
follow that they are thereby absolved from all allegiance to
the old government. A person may be, what isnot a very uncommon case, a subject owing allegiance to both governments, ad urtiusque fidem regis.' But if he chooses to adhere
to the old government, and not to unite with the new, though
governing the territory of -his birth, it isifar more difficult to
affirm, that the new government can compel or claimhis
allegiance in virtue of his birth, although he is not within
the territory, so as to make. him responsible criminally to its
jurisdiction. It may give' him the privileges of a subject,
but it does not follow that it can compulsively oblige him to
renounce his former allegiance. Perhaps the'tleast.analogy to govern. such cases is to bring them within the rule
that applies to cases of conquest , where those only., are
bound to obedience and allegiapcewho remain under the
'protection of the conqueror.
The case of the separation of the United States from
Great Britain, is-perhaps not strictly brought within any of
the descriptions already referred to; and it has been treated.
on many occasions, both at the bar and on th'bench, as a
case sui generis. Before the revolution, all the colonies
constituted 6 part of the dominions of the king of Great
Britain, and all -the colonists were natural born subjects, ent00led to all the privileges'of British born'subjects;.and capa.,
ble of inheriting lands in any part of the British dominions,
as owing a common allegiance to the British crown. But
iv each colony there was'a separate and independent government established under the authority of the crown, though
in subordination to it. In this posture of things the revo-

SUPREME COUR;.
(Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

lution came; and the declaration of independence acting
upon it, proclaimed the colonies'free and independent states;
treating them not as communities, in which all government
was dissolved, and society was resolved into its first natural
elements, but as organized states, having a present form of
government, and entitled to remodel that form according to
the necessities or policy of the people. The laffguage of
the declaration of independence is, that congress solemnly
publish and declare, "that these united colonies are, and of
right ought to be, free and independent states; that they are
absolved from all allegiance to the British crown; and that
alI'politiedi, connexion between. them and the state of Great
Britain is and ought to be totally dissolved ; and that as free
-and independent states, they have full powei to levy war, conelude peace, contract alliances, establish commerce, and do
all other,acts and things which independent states may of
right do.,' It.is plain that this instrument did not contemplate
an entire dissolution of all government in the states; which
would hdve led to a sulversiori of all civil and political rights,
and a destruction of all laws. It treated thie colonies as
states,ard simply absolved them from allegiance to the British
crown, dnd all political connexion with Great Britain. The
states s' considered it: some of them proceeded to act and
legislate before the adoption of any new constitution; some
of them framed new constitutions; and some.of, them have
continued to act under their old charters down to the present
day. They treated the case as it was treated -in England
upon the abdication of Jamesr II. and provided for it, by resorting to that ultimate sovereignty residing in the people,
to provide fdr all cases not expressly provided for in their
laws.
A'teceaent to the revolution; the inhabitants of the colonie, whether natives of the colonies,.or of-any other of the
'Brjiish dominions, owed no allegiance 6xcept to the British
crpwn'. There was not, according to the common law, any
secondary or subordinate allegiance to the colony itself, or
the government therein established, as contradistinguished
from the general -allegiance to the British crown. When,
therefore, the declaration of independence absolved all the

JANUARY TERM 1830.

159

[Inglis us. The Trustees of th Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

-

states from allegiancb to the British-'crown, it was an act of
one'-party only. It-did not bind the British government,
which wa4 still at liberty to insist, and did insist upon the
absolute hullity of.the act, and clhimed the allegiance 6fdal
ihe colonists as -erletual and obligatory. From this perplexing state of affairs, the necessary, accompaniment ofa
civil war, it cotild not escape the notice-of the eminent men
of that day, that most distressing questions must arise; who
were to be considered as constituting, the-American statee,.
on one side, and "the state of Great Britain" on the qther'l
The common -law furnished n6 perfect guide, or rather admitted of different interpretations. If, on -the one side, it
was said, that all persons born within. a'colony owed, a perpetual allegiance to that colony, whoever might be the sovereign, the answer was, that the -common law admitted no
right in any part-of the subjects to change their allegiance
without the consent of their sovereign, and that the usurpation of such authority was itself rebellion; for "nemo potest
exuere patriam," was the language of the common law: -In
respect to persons who were not natives, but inhabitants only,
in a colony, at the time of the assertion of its independence,
there was still less reason to claim their allegiance. If they
were aliens, there was no pretefice to say that they could
be bound to permanent allegiance ogpifist their will. If they
were born in England, or elsewhere in the British dominions,
.out of the colony, they were as little bound to permanent
allegiance; because they inhabited, not as colonists, but as
British subjects. In respect to both these cases, (i. e. foreigners and British subjects.) no colony, upon asguming to be an
independent state, could, against their will, make them members of the state. "-It would be an exercise of authority not
flowing from its rights as an independent state, and at war
with the admitted rights of other nations, by the law 6f nations, to hold the allegiance of their-own subjects. In order,.
tliereforc-, to make such persons members of the state, there
must be some oveit act or consent on their own part, to assume
a character; and then, and then only, could they be deemed,
in respect to such colony, to determine their right of election.
Under the .peculiar circumstances of the revolution, the

SUPREME COUfT.
tInglis vs. The Tiustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.1 -,

general, I do not say the universal, principle adopted, was
to.consider all persons, whether natives or inhabitants, upon
the occurrencb of the revolution, entitled to make their
choice, either to remain subjects of the British crown, or to
be'come members of the United States. This choice was necessarily to be made within a reasonable time. In some
cases that time was pointed out by express acts of the legis'lature; and the fact of abiding within the state after it assumed independence, or after some other specific period,
was declared to be an election to become a citizen. That
was the course in M'assachusetts, New York, New Jersey,
and Pennsylvania. In other states, no special laws were passed; but each case wa§ left to be decided upon its, own circumstances, according to the voluntary acts and conduct of
the'pdrty. That the general principle of such a right of
electing to remain under the old, or to contract a new allegiance; was recognised, is apparent from the cases of the
Commonwealth vs. Chapman, I DalI. Rep. 53.' Caignet vs.
-Pettit, 2 Dall. Rep. 234. Martin vs. The Commonwealth -1
Mass. Rep. 347, 397. Palmer vs. Downer, 2 Mass. Rep. 179,
note. S. C. Dane's Abridg. ch. 131, art. 7, see. 4. Kilham
vs. Ward, 2 Mass. Rep. 236, and Gardner vs. Ward, 2 Mass.
Rep. 244, note - as explained and adopted in Inhabitants of
Cumihington vs. Inhabitants of Springfield, 2 Pick. Rep;
394, and note. Inhabitants of Manchester vs. Inhabitants of
Boston, 16 Mass. Rep. 230, and M'Ilvaine vs. Coxe's Lessee,
4 Cranch, 209, 211(a). But what is more directly in point,
it is expressly declared and acted upon, by the sUpreme
court of New York, in the case 'of Jackson vs. White, 20
.Tohns. Rep. 313. It appeirs to rue that there is-sound sense
and public-policy in this doctrine; and there is no pretence
to say, that it is incompatible with the known law or general
usages of nations. The rase of Ainslie vs. Martin, 9 Mass.
Rep. 454, proceeds upon the. opposite ifoctrine; but that
case stands alone, and is incompatible w'ith prior as well as
subsequent decisions of the same court; and so-it has been
(a) See also Chase J. in Ware vs. Hylton,
Dali; 225,. IVeters's Condeni.
Rep. 190. Hebron vs. Coliheater, 5 Day's Rep. 169.

JANUARtY TERM 1830.-.

161

[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

treated by chancellor Kent, in his learned commentaries.
2 Kent's Comm. 35, 52.
Another point, which necessarily arises in the present discussion, is, whether a party, who, by.operati.on of law, or by
the express enactment of the legislature of a state, after the
declaration of independence, became a citizen of the state,
could afterwards, by any act of his own, flagrante bello,. divest himself of sach citizenship. It is clear, that during the
war; however true it might be that the state by its own declaration, or by hif consent, might hold him to his allegiance'
as a citizen, and absolve him from his former allegiance; such
declaration or consent could be binding only between him
and the state, and could have no legal effect upon the rights
of the British crown. The king might still claim -to hold him
to his former allegiance, and until an actual renunciation on
his part, according to the -comimon law, he remttined a subject. He was, or might be held to be, bound ad utriusque
•fidem regis. In an American court, we s*hould be bound to
consider him as an American citizen only; in a Bitish court,
he could, upon the same prificiple, be held a British subje'ct.
Neutral nations would probably treat him according to the
side with which-he acted at the time when they were called
upon 'to decide upon his rights. It might well be presumed,
that from various motives, numbers would change sides during the.progress of the contest; some.because they were compulsively held to allegianceo and others, again, from a sincere
change of opinion. It is historically true, that numbers did
so change sides. The general doctrine asserted in the American dourts, has been, that natives who were'mnot here at
the declaration of independence, but were then; and for a
long while afterwards remained, under British protection, if
they returned- before the treaty of peace,' and were here at
that period, were to be -deemed citizens. If they adhered to
Stle British crown up to the time of the. treaty, they were
deemed aliens;'some of the cases already referred to are full
*to this point, and particularly -Kilhamvs. Ward,and Gardner
vs. Ward. In respect to British subjects, not natives, who
joined us at any time dtiring the war, and remained with us
up to the peace, a similar rule of deeming them citizens has
VOL. HI.--V

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

been-adopted. The cases in 9 Mass. Rep. 454; 2 Pick. Rep.
394; and 5 Day Rep. 169, are to this effect. The ground. of
this doctrine is, that each government had a right to decide
for itself who should be admitted or deemed citizens; that
those who adhered to the states and" to Great Britain, respectively, were,, by the respective governments, deemed
members thereof; and that the treaty of peace acted by necessary implication upon thb existing, state of things, and
fixed the final allegiance of the parties on each side, as it
Was then,. de facto. Hence the recognition on the part of
Great Britain of our independence, by the treaty of 1783,
has always been held by us as a complete renunciation on
her part of any allegiance of the then members 6f the states,
whether natives or British born. And the game doctrine has
been in its fullest extent recognized in the British courts, in
the case of Thoias vs. Acklam, - Barn. & Cress. 779. Lord
chief justice Abbott, in delivering the opinion of the court
on that occasion, said, that the declaration in the treaty, that
the states were free, sovereign, and independent states,- was
a declaration that the people composing the state shall no
longer be considered as subjects of the sovereign by whom
such declaration is made. And in a subsequent case, Auchmuty vs. Mulcaster, 8 Dowl. & Ryl. Rep. 593; S.C. 5
Barn. & Cress. 771; the same court held, that a native Ame-rican, born before the declaration of independence, who adhered to the royal cause during the war, still retained his
allegiance, and was to be deemed, not an American citizen,
but a British subject. Mr Justice Bayley, on that occasion,
said, "the king acknowledges the United States to-be free,
sovereign, and independent stated." -" Who are made independent . The states. Does not this mean the persons who
at that time (of-the treaty) composed the American states,"
8 Dowl. & Ryl. 603.. And again he added, "the treatyl
&c. &o. made those persons who were at that pqriod of
time adherifig to the then American government or constituted authorities, free of "their.allegiance to the drown of
these kingdoms, and left them to adopt their allegiance to
the new government."
In'Kilham vs. Ward, 2 Mas. Rep. 236, and Gardner vs.

JANUARY TERM 1830.

163

[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.].

Ward, 2 Mass. Rep. 244, note, a like doctrine was avowed.',
The language of the court there was, that by.the treaty those
who.by their adherence'and residence-had remained the subjects of the king of Great Britain on the one part, and those
who by their adherence and residence were then the people
of the United States on the 6ther part, were reciprocally discharged from all opposing claims of allegiance and sovereignty. This doctrine appears to me so rational and just, and
founded upon such a clear principle'of reciprocity and public
policy, that it is, I own, extremely difficult, for me to admit
that the treaty does not indispensably' require that interpretation. It is true that the treaty contains no renunciation on,
our part, of.the allegiance of any of our citizens who had.adhered to the British crown; but the reason of the omission is
obvious. "Great Britain claimed. the allegiance of .l the
colonists as British, subjects; she renounced by the treaty
that claim as to all who then adhered to the American states.
We acquiesced in that result; and must, in the absence of
any stipulation to the.contrary, be deemed to admit'the allegiance to have been retained, Qf all whose allegiance was
not expressly or impliedly renounced..
I am compelled, however, to admit the 'language of this
court in-M'Ilvaine vs. Coxe's Lessee, 4 Cranch, .209, .214,.
leads to'an opposite conclusion. There is. no doubt that the
treaty of peace does not ascertain who ardcitizens'on the one
side, or subjects on theother. That is a matter partly of law
an'd partly of fact; but when the fact is ascertained that the
party was de facto, at the time, under the allegiance of, and
adhering to either government, he is. to be treated as a subject
of that governmdntf and as such, 'a party to the treaty. What
right have the American states to say that all persons shall
be deemed citizens who, at any time previous to the treaty,
were deemed citizens under theirlaws ; any more'than Great
Britain has, to hold all persons subjects whom she had previously deemed subjects, in virtue of their original allegiance.
Each party must, I think, be presumed to deal with the other
.upon the footing of equal rights as to allegiance, and to act
upon the status in quo the treaty found them. If, however,
the case of M'Ilvaine vs;Coxe's Lessee is to be deerped not

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis.v

The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

an administration of local law, but of universal law and the.
interpretation of treaties, it bverthrows the r.easoning for
which I contend. I cannot admit its universality of appli-.
cation; on the contrary, sitting in Massachusetts, I should
feel myself cpnstr ained to re-examine the dootrine'as applicable td that Wtte, upon a point which affected-her political
rights and her soil, and which the courts of the state had the
most ample jurisdiction to entertain and ddtermine. In New
York- there is no decision either way; and it' seems to-me,
thtrefore, that it is fit to be re-examined upon principle. I
adopt the suggestion of lord chief justice Abbott in Doe ex
d. Thomas 0s. Acklam, 2 Barn. & Cress. 798, that the inconvenience that must 'ensue from considering any. large
mass of the inhabitants of a country to be at once citizens
and subjects of two distinct and independent states, and'
owing allegiance to each; .would, if the]language of the treaty
could admit 9 f any doubt of its effect, be of great weight
toward the removal of that doubt.' The treaty ought t be
so construed, as 'that each government should be finally
deemed entitled to the allegiance of those who were at that
time adhering to it(a).
. With these principles- in view, let us now come to the
consideration of the question of alienage in the present case.
That the father and- mother of the demandant were British
born subjects, is admitted. If he was born before the 4th
of July 1776, it.is as clear that he was born a British subject.
If he was born after the 4th of July 1776, and before the
15th of September 1776, he was born an American citizen,
whether his parents were at the time of his birth' British subjects or American citizens. Nothing is better settled at the
common law than the doctrine that the children even of
aliens born in a country, while the parents are resident there
under the protection of the government, and owing a tdmporary allegiance thereto, are subjects by birth., If he was
born after the 15th of September 1776, and his-parents did
not elect to become members of the state of New York, but
adhered to their native allegiance at the time of his birth,
(a) See also 1 Wood. Lect. 382.

Dane's Abridg. ch. 131, art. 7.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
rInglis vs. The Trusties of the Sailor's Snug Rarbour.]

then he was born a British subject. If he w- in eifherway
born a British subject, then he is to be deemed an alien and
incapable to take the land in controversy by descent; unless
he had become at the time of the descent cast an American
citizen, by some act-sufficient in point of law to work sucha change of allegiance.
His parents being born British subjects,. it is incumbent
upon those who set up the defence, to establish, that having
a right of choice, his parents elected to become American
citizens. This is attempted to be deduced by operation of
law, from certain resolutions and acts of the government de
facto of. the state of New York. As early as the 15th'of
September 1776i his parents joined 'the British troops in
New York, -and remained under the protection of the British
arms during -the war. At the close of the war his father
withdrew (his mother being then dead) with the British
authorities; and he continued ever afterwards under the protection and allegiance, de facto,-of the British crown. Sci far
as the acts, therefore, of the parents, manifested by a virtual
adherence to the British side, go, they negative any intentional change of native allegiance. But it is said that they
were bound to make their election in a reasonable time. I
agree to this; but the effect of the omission to manifest anelection in favour of the state of New York, was in my judgment decisive of their adhering to the allegiance of their native sovereign. But if it were. otherwise, if the election to
remain British subjects must be affirmatively established;
still, I think, in point of law, under all the circuimstances, an
election by taking the British protection in September 1776,
was within a reasonable time; and the case of-Jackson vs.
White, 20 Johns. Rep. 313, in my judgment warrants such a
conclusion.
But it is said that the ordinance of the 16th of July 1776,
which declares "thai all persons abidingwithin the state of
New York, and deriving protection from the laws of. the
same, owe allegiance to the said laws, -and are members of
the state," by necessary conclusion and operation of law
made the parents of the demandant American citizens ; because they were then abiding within the state and deriving

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustbes of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

protection from its laws. Now, assuming that the convention
of the state of .New York had plenary powers for'this pur- .
pose, do as to bind a British subject not born in New York
-to allegiance to the state, from the mere fact of his local
residence at the time (a proposition that is encumbered with
many difficulties), the term "abiding," as here used, has
never been construed to exclude the right of election of
,persons who were inhabitants at that period, to adhere to
the old, or contract a new allegiance. The case of Jackson.
vs. White, 20 Johns. Rep. 313, is. decisive of that.
We must then give a rational interpretation to the word,
consistent with the rights of parties, and the accompanying
language of the ordinance. By "abiding" in the ordinance
is meant not merelypresent inhabitants, but present inhabitaricy _oupled with an intention of permanent residence.
This isi
pparent from the nelt clause of the ordinance, where
it is declared, "that all persons passing through, visiting, or
making a temporary stay in the state being entitled to the
protection of the laws during the time of such passage, visitation, or temporary stay, owe during the same allegiance
thereto." Their (Itemporary stay" is manifestly used in
contradicti6in to "abidii r g," and shows that the latter means
permanent intentional residence. So Mr Chief Justice
Spencer, in Jackson vs. White, 20-Johns. Rep. L 3, 326,
considered it. He says, "residence in thi* state prior to
that event (the declaration of independence) imported nothing as regards the election or determination of such residents to adhere to the old or adopt-he.new government.
The temporary stay mentioned in the resolution of the convention passed only twelve days after the declaration of independence by congress, and within five days after the adopiion of the declaration by the convention of this state, clearly
imports, that such persons who were resident here without
any intention of permanent residence, were not to be regarded as members of thd state;" they had a right to a reasonable time therefore, after the ordinance was passed, to
decide whether, with reference to the new .government, they.
would adopt a permanent residence in the state, and to
become members thereof.
A similar declaration is to be found in the statute of 1777of

JANUALY TERM 1830.

167

[Inglis vs. The Truitees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

Massachusetts, and there the term "abiding" has beer. coilstrued not- only to ;apply to.an intention of permanent residence, but of a prospective abiding(a): The reasoning in
the Commonwealth vs. Chapman, 1 Dall. Rep. 53, persuasively conducts us to a similar conclusion. This ordinance,
then, cannot be deemed to dissolve the native allegiance of
the parents of the demandant, unlbss it shall be clearly established that .they intended a permanent residence in -New
York, and to become members of the state under the new
gqvernment, anterior to their assumingiBritish protection in
September 1776.
But even admitting that his parents did elect to become
citizens of New York before the 15th of September 1776,
still I am of opinion that the demandant, if he was born after the British took possegsion-of the city of New York, in
September 1776, while his parents were under the protection
of, and adhering to the British government de facto, was to
all intents and purposes an- alien born. To constitute a
citizen, the party must be born not only within the territory,
but within the ligeance of the government. This is clear
from the whole reasoning in Calvin's Case, 7 Co. 6, a. 18, a.
b.(b).. Now in no just sense can the demaatant be deemed
born within the ligeance of the state of New York, if, at the
time of his birth, his'parents were in a territory then occupied by her enemies and adhering to them as subjects, de
facto, in virtue of their original allegiance.
The act of the 22d of October 1779, Which confiscates the
estate of the parents of the demandant, throws great light
upon this part of the subject; it demonstrates that theywere
deemed to be then adhering to the British, the enemies of
the state. It begins with a preamble reciting that "diveis
persons holding or claiming property within this-state have
voluntarily, been adherent to the said king (of Breat Britain),
his fleets and armies, enemies to this state and the said other
United States, with intent to subvert the goveinment and
.liberties of this state and of the said other United States,
(a) See opinion in note. 2 Pick. Rep. 394, 395.
(b) See also Com. Dig. Aien. Bae. Abddg. Alien. A.

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

and to bring the same into subjection to the crown of Great
Britain ; by reason whereof the said persons have severally
justly forfeited all right to the protection of this-state, and to
the benefit of the laws under which such property is held or
claimed.'? It further declares, that the public safety requires
".that the most :notorious offenders should be immediately
hereby convicted and attainted of the offence aforesaid, in
order to work a -forfeiture of their respective estates, and"
invest the same in the people of this state." It then enacts,
"that John Murray, 'earl of Dunmore, &c. &c. Charles Ing-lis of the said city (of' New York), and Margaret his wife,
(the parents of the demandant), &c. &c. be, and each of
them are hqreby severally declared to be ipso facto convicted and attainted of the offence aforesaid ;" and then declares
their estates forfeited. In the tecond section it enacts" that
the same persons "shall be and hereby'are declared to be
for-ever banished from this state, and each and every of them,
who shall at any time hereafter be found in any part of this
state, shall.be and he.reby is adjudged and declared guilty of
felony, and shall suffer death,"
This act deserves an attentive consideration on several
accounts.. It is apparent, upon its face, that it is not an 'act
which purports to be an attainder of citizens of thd -stateonly, on account of their treason in adhering to the public
enemies ; for it embraces persons who never were, nor were
pretended to be citizens; neither does it affect to confiscate
the' property on account of the alienage of the persons
named therein, by way of escheht. The persons described
as subjects of attainder are, ".persons holding or'claiming
property within this state," which descriptidn equally applies to' citizens and British subjects, and may include
foreigners of other nations. It seems, indeed, a summary
exercise'of the ultimate power of sovereignty, in inflicting
the penalty of confiscation upon the property of enemies,
jure belli. But it demonstrates clearly the sense of the
legislature, that the persons named therein were at.that time
voluntary adherents to the British crown, and enemies of the
state; and it affords a very cogent presumption of such adherence from the time that they first came under BritisL

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustets of the Sailor's Snug karbour.]

protection.. It farther denounces such persons as enemies
or traitors, who have forfeited all right to the protection of
the statei and punishes them by a sentence of perpetual
banishment, and makes their residence within the state a
capital felony.
Such a. sentence,, under such circumstances, must be
deemed on the part of the statq, a perpetual renunciation of
the allegiance of those persons, and to deprive them of the
-rights, and to absolve them from the duties of citizens.
There can be no allegiance due where the sovereign expressly denies all protection, and compels the party to a perpetual exile. In this view of the matter, the demandant's
parents were by the sovereign act of the state-itself absolved
from all future allegiance, even if they had antecedently
owed any to ,the state. In this state of things, the treaty
of 1783 found-the father adhering to the British crown as a
native born subject.
What then is the operation of the treaty.of 1783 . It is
clear to mrmind, that the father of the demandant must be
considered as a party to that treaty on the British side., I
say this upon the presumption, which is not denied, that he
was then adhering to the British crown; and that he wai
there recognized and protected as a subject owing allegiance
to the British crown. In this state of things the treaty must,
upon.tbe grounds which I have already stated, be deemed to
operate as an admission that he was in future to owe no'allegiance to the state of New York, but he was to be deemed
a British subject.
The question then arises as to what was the operation of
the treaty upon his- son, the demandant, who was then an
infant of tender years, and incapable of any election on his
own part. It appears to me, that upon principles of public
law as well as of the commonlawhe must if born a British
subject, be deemed to adhere to, and retain the national
allegiance of hip parents, at the time of the treaty. Vattel
considers the general doctrine to be, that children generally
acquire the national character of their parents (Vattel, B. 1,
ch. 19.'sec. 212, 219); and it i' certain, both by the common law and the statute law of England, that the. demandant
VOL. III.-W

SUPREME COURT.
EIngis vs. The. Trustees

of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

would be deemed a British subject. The argument itself
-assumes that the demandant now acts officially in that
character, and that ever since his arrival of age h6 has
adhered to his British allegiance.
Upon the whole, upon the point of alienage as presented
in the case, the following are my opinions under the various
postures of the facts.
1. That. if the demapdant was born before the 4th of July
1776, he was born a British subject.
2. That if he was born after the 4th of July 1776, and
before the 15th,of September 1776, he was born an American citizen; and that it makes no difference in this respect,
whether or not his paients had at the time of his birth,eledted to become citizens of the state of New York, by'manifesting an intention of becoming permanently members
thereof, in the sense which Ihave endeavaured to explain.
3. That if the demandant was. borii after the 15th of September 1776, When the British took possessioif of New York,
and while his parents were there residing under the protection of, and adhering to the British crown as subjects, de
facto, he was born a British subject, even though his parents
had previously become citizens of the state of New York.
4. That if the demandant was born after the 15th of September 1776, and could be deemed (as I cannot admit) a
citizen of the state of New York in virtue of his parentp having, before the time of his birth, elected to become citizens
of that state, still his national character was derivative from
his parents, and was under the peculiar circumstancesof this
case, liable to be changed during the revolutionary war; and
that if his parents reverted to their original character, as
British subjects, and adhered to the British crown, his allegiance was finally fixed with theirs by the treaty of peace.
5. That it was competent for the British government-to
insist, at all times during the revolutionary war, upon retaining the allegiance of all persons who were born or became
subjects; and for the American states to insist in the like
manner. But that the treaty of peace of 1783 released all
persons from any other allegiance than that of the party to
whom they then adhered, and under whose allegiance they

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

were then, de facto, found. That if the demandant's father
was at that time so adhering, it was a final settlement of his
allegiance on the British side; and that the demandant, unless born after the 4th of July 1776, and before the 15th
of September 1776, remained, to all intents and purposes, a
British subject
6. That if the case of M'Ilvaine vs. Coxe's Lessee,- 4
Cranch, 209, should be thought to have overturned this doctrine so that it is no longer re-examinable, still that in this
case the. parents had a right to elect to which government
they would adhere; and that a period up to the 15th of Sep..mber 1776, was not an unreasonable time for that purpose;
and that unless some -prior, clear act of election could be
shown, the adherence to the Britishfrom the,15th of September to the close of the war, afforded strong evidence to repel the presumption ofany prior election to become citizens,
arising from the fact of abiding in the state up to that period.
From these views, meaning to be understood to leave any
disputed facts open for- inquiry, (although no other facts
seem in dispute, except the actual period of the birth of the
demandant) my judgment-would be that the demandant was,
unless he was born between the 4th of July and the 15th of
September 1776, an alien at the time of the treaty of 1783,
and has ;ver since remained so. I agree to.the. doctrine in
Dawson's Lessee-vs. Godfrey, 4 Cranch, .321, that the right
to inheritdepends upon the existing state of, allegiance at.
the time. of the descent cast, and not merely upon a community .of allegiance. at the time of birth; and the same doctrine is recognized in the fullest manner in the British
courts(a).- If the demandant then was an alien at the time of
the descent easti he is incapable to inherit the estate in point
.of law.
But it has been suggested as matter of doubt, whether
alienage of the demandant can be taken advantage of or rejected on the rnise joined. This objection cannot in my opinion be maintained; iAis laid down in the books that every
thing in bar upon the merits may be given, in evidence under
(a) Doe ex dem. Thomas vs. Acklam, 2 Bari S&Cress. 779.

SUPREME COURT.
[Iuglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

the mise, except collateral warranty ;-so it is said in Biooks's
Ab. Droit,; 48 ; and Booth on Real Actions, 112. That

also -seems to have been the opinion of the court in Tyssen
vs. Clarke, 2 Wils. Rep. 541. Whether the proposition can
be maintained in its general latitude, it is unnecessary now
to consider ; but it is certainly necessary, for the demandant
to prove his title as set forth in the writ. If he claims by
descent from an ancestor who was seised, he must show
that he is heir, and capable to tdke by descent. The seisin
of the ancestor is nothing without 6stablishing his heirship.
The cases of Green vs. Liter, 8 Cranch, 229,. and Green v8.

-

Watkins, 7 Wheat. Rep.. 28,. are decisive that in a writ of
right the title and mere right of each party are in issue; aild.
each may establish that the title of the other wholly fails.
If, 'therefore' the demandant has no title by descent, the
tenant may show it; for it goes to tlw, very foundation of his
claim.
In this connexion it may be well to dispose of another objection, which was much Pxessed at the argument. It is this:
the demandant in his count alleges the seisin of Robert R.
Randall, and makes title by descent to the premises as his
-next collateral heir on the part of his mother. At the death
of Robert R. Randall, he left a brother Paul R. Randall, and
a sister, -Catherine Brewe.ton, on whom the alleged right to
the jlands descended in moieties,-and throughThom (though
notfirm whom) the demandant deduces his title by descent,,
they having died without issue. The tenants offered evi-.
dence to establish that Catherine Brewerton had disposed of
her right in the premises by will; and that the right of Paul
R. Randall also had been transferred during his life time.
Nowthe objection is, that.this evidence is inadmissible, be- .
cause it is an attempt to set up the title of third persons, to
defeat a recovery in a writ of right, -which is inadmissible.
The" cases of Green vs. Liter, 8 Cranch, 229, and Green -vs:
Watkins, 7 Wheat. Rep.-28, have been relied on to support
this objection. Nothing is better settled in this court than the
.doctrine that a better title in third persons cannot be set up
to defeat a recovery in a writ of right, because that writ
brings into controviersy and comparison the titles of the par-

JANUARY TERM 1830.

173

[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.].

ties only ; but it is perfectly consistent With this doctrine,
that the tenant may show that the title set up by the demandant is in -fact no title at all. One material allegation in the
present count is its seisin of Robert P. Randall the ancestort; and this'seisin is admitted, and indeed constitutes a
part of the title of both parties in the present case. Another
material allegation is, that the right to the demanded premises descended to the demandant as heir. Now, it is clear
upon the general principles of pleading, that what is essential
to the demaddant's right, as stated in his count, must, when
that right is denied by the issue, be proved by the demandant, and may be disproved by the tenanVt. If-, therefore, the
demandant be incapable of .taking as heir b~y descent, although there be a right, that may be shown by the -tenant;.
as if he,be an alien, because it defeats the, asserted descent
of the title. On thA other hand, if the heirship be admitted,
and, the right, was parted with by the -ancestor, or by any
other person, upon whom it intermediately devolved before
it could reach the demandant, that, for a better reason, may
be shown,. because it shows that no right or title descended
at all. .Both are necessary to establish the 'demandant's.
claim,; there must be a right or -title subsisting, capable of
descent, and a apacity. in the demandant to take as heir.
If the'ancestor has actually parted with his whole right and
title in the premises by a legal conveyance, how can it be
said that there remains any descendi.bkright in him . If his
fight has been parted with by any. intermediate heir by a legal conveyaince, how can it be said to have devolved upon
the 'demandant . The true and real. distinction 'is
this : 'if the
demandatit shows any'right, as stated in his count to have
descended to him from his' ancestor, the tenant cannot.show
that there is a better tight subsisting -ip-a 'thitd person,.under whom .he do-es not claim, for that dbes not disprove the'
title of the -deibanlant as asserted in his writ; ind if the demandant's title, such- as it is, is better than the tenant's, then
the demandant ought. to reCover j but the tenant may show
.that the demandant has no right whatso eVr by descent, for
the possession of the tenant is sufficient 'against any person
who does n6t'show any right, br'"' better right. And this,

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

as I.understand it, is the doctrine, in Green vs. Watkins,
7 Wheat. Rep.-28. Here, title in third persons is offered, not
to, prove that there is a better outslanding title, but that no
right whatsoever descended to the demandant, as he claims
in his count. It seems to me that it is clearly admissible.
The next, point is whether the will of Catherine Brewerton was sufficient to pass her right and interest in the premises in question, so as to defeat the demandant in any
rejspect; the premises being at the date of the will, and ever
since, held adversely by tho tenants in the suit,
If this point'were to be decided with reference purely to
the common law of England, there might be some reasons
for doubt. The question whether a right of entry was under'
the British statute of wills devisable, seems never to have
been directly decided until a recent period.. There is indeed to be found in prior cases, many dicta going to affirm
the doctrine that such-a right of entry is not devisable. Such
seems to have been the opinion of Lord Holt in Bunker vs.
Cook, 11 Mod. R. 122, and of Lord Eldon in Attorney Gene-.
ral vs. Vigor, 8 Ves. 282, as well as of other.judges in former
'times,whose dicta are collectedand commented on in Goodright vs. Forrester, 8 East's Rep. 552, 566,. and 1 Taunt,
Rep. 604(a). There are- also .dicta the other way; and at
all events there is reasoning which leads to the conclusion,
that in modern times the judges have been disposed to give
a far more liberal construction to the statutes, and to hold
that whatever is descendible is devisable. The cases of
Jones vs. Roe, 3 Term Rep. 88, and Goodtitle d. Gurnall
vs. Wood, Willes's Rep. 211, 3 Term Rep. 94, by Lord
Kenyon, are most material. In Goodright vs. Forrester, 8
East's Rep. 552, the court of king's bench held a right of
entry not devisable. But when that case came befcre the
court of the ekchequer chamber in error, lord chief justice
Mansfield very much doubted that point, and the case was
finally decided on another. But it is the less necessary to
consider this question upon the English authorities, because
it has undergone an express adjudication in the state Qf New
(a) See also Corn. Dig.Devise,

hi.

JANUARY TERM 1830.

75

[Inglis ys. The Trustees ofthe Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

York, upon the construction of their own statute of wills.
The statute of New York enacts that any lierson having an
estate of inheritance in lands, tenements and hereditamuets;
shall have a right to devise them. In*Jackson vs. Varick,
7 Cowen's Rep. 238, the supreme court of New York, upon
.very full consideration, held, that under this statute a right
of entry being an hereditament, was devisable. And'this
court in Waring vs. Jackson, 1Pe.ters's Rep. 571, understood
it to be the settled rule in that state that an ad-verse possession did not prevent the passingthe-property, by devise.
This then being a point of local law,.Upon the construction
of a statute of the state, according to the uniform course of
this court in cases of that nature we should hold it decisive,
whatever original doubts might otherwise have surrounded
it. But as one, I confess myself well satisfiedwith.that decision upon principle. It is rational and convenient; and if
1 should have felt difficulty in arriving at it through the
authorities, I should not be inclined to disturb it. when
made.
It has been said that the present case differs from that in
7 Cowen's Rep. 238 in this, that the4demandant claims
tkroigh, but not wnder Mrs Brewerton, not asher heir, but
as heir of Robert R. Randall; and tha; the estate was not
desdendible to her -heirs according to-the known principles
of the common law, as she was never seised of the premises,
but to -Robert's heirs, as the person last seised. --That is
true; but it does not alter the application of the principle of
law. If Mrs Brewerton had been possessed of a reversion
by descent from Robert R. Randall, and she had died-before
the life estate fell, in, it would not have gone to her heirs,
but to his. . And -yet there is no doubt that she might grant
such a reversion, or deyise it, and it would pass by her will
to the devisee and -thus interrupt the descent. So, if MrsBrewerton had 'a' right of entry in the premises, and- she
could devise it, it is of no consequence that it would not if
undevised, have passed to her heirs-; for having the jus disponendi, when she exercses it it passes her right to her
devisee, and so interrupts the descent to the heirs of Robert

SUPREME COURT.
TInglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

BL Randall. It appears to me, therefore, that as to the
.moiety of Mrs-Brewerton it passed under her will, and that
the demandant, in any view of his claim, has no title to a
moiety of the demanded premises. A right of entry may
well pass under.the devise of an hereditament(a).
The next question is, whether the proceedings against
Paul R. Randall as an absent and absconding debtor passed
his right or ifiterest to theother moiety in the lands in
question to, and Vested the same in -the.trustees appointed
under the same proceedings, so *as to defeat the demandant
in any respect.
The answer must depend upon the true construction of
the dbsconding debtor acts of 1786 and 1801i ascompared
With those proceedings. At the tima of those proceedings,
the premises were in the adverse' possession of the tenants;
and consequently Paul R. Randall had only.a right of entry.
And the question is, whether that. right of entry' passed by
the statutes to the trustees; and if so, whether it did not by
operation of law revest in him after all these proceedings
werefuncti officio, his debts being paid and the surplus paid
over to him.
At ihe common law a right of entry is clearly not grantable or assignable. The party has, in the sense of the common law, no estate in lands of which he is disseised; but hi*
estate-is said to be turned to a right, and can-berecoverable
only by an entry or an action, In the mean time he has not
any estate in the lands, but he has merely the right to the
estate. For this doctrine it is necessary to do no more than
to refer to Littleton, sec. 347; .Co. Litt. 214 and 345, a. b.;
Preston on Estates) 20, and Com. Digest, Assignment,'C.
1,2,'3, and Grant, D,(a). Unless it shall appear-that the
common law has been differently construed in New-York, or
altered by some local statute, the same rule must be presumed to prevail there; for, by the constitution of that state,
the common law forms the basis of its jurisprudence. No
case has been cited in which the rule of the comnion law on
-

(a) See Coffin vs. Smith, 2 H. BI. 444.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of'the -Sailnr's Snug Harbour.]

this subject has been overturned, or in which it has been
decided that the word." estate" includes a right of -ehtry,
proprio vigore."
But it is said that by the law of New York a right of entry
is attachable,, and may be taken and sold on execution;land
that an attachment underthe absconding debtor actp. of
1786 and -1801, is deemed analogous to an execution(a).
It may; doubtless, well be s o deemed in a general sense;
-but it by no means necessarily follows that because thereis
such -an analogy, therefore, whatever may be taken in execution may betaken on such attachment, or, e converso.
The subject of levies under execution, is -expressly provided
for by. the statute of New York of the 31st of March 1801;
aid what effects or estate may be taken' in execution Olepends upon the true construction of the teirms of that dcr..
It declares-that "all .the.lands,.tenements, and real.estate"
of every debtor shalilbe liable-to be.sold upon "execution,"
&c. for 'the payment of any judgment against him for ddbt
or damages. What has been the judicial construction iof
these words in this act' Whether they include a -right of.entry,
does- not, as far as my researches eiteid, appear ever to have
been. decided. It is indeed suggested.by Mr Justice Woodworth, in delivering the'opinion of the court in'Jackson vs."
-Varick, 7Cowen's Rep. 238, 244, that the reasonable construction is, that it includes such a right; but the point was
not then before the court, and he does not'treat it as a point
settled by adjudication.. The words to which he refers in.
another part of the act, giving the form'.of the execution
:(sec. 9), in which, it is confined to lands and tenements where-ofthe debtor was .seised on the day when the same land became liable to the debt (by-the judgment), would rather
incline one to a different conclusion. And it is certain that
under the'statute of Westminster 2, ch. 18, subjecting lands
to executioni, lands of which ,the debtor is disseised at the
time of the judgment cannot be taken in execution(b). - Be
this as'it may, it is certain that in New York the process
(a) Matter of Smith, 16 Johns. Rep. 102:
(b) 1 Roll. Abridg. 88, Com. Dig. Execution, d. 14.

VOL. III.-X

-SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's SnugHarbour.)

upon executions, and under the absconding debtor act are
not co-extensive in their reach; A judgment is"not a liefi
Upon a mere equity; and such an equity (not being an equitable estate under the statute of uses of 1787, sec. 4), is not
an interest which. can be sold -on execution. And choses
'in action do'not appear-to be within the scope of 'the act
respecting executions; for the language confines it to "goods
and chattels." -Yet choses in action by the express terms -of
the absconding debtor acts pass under the attachment; and
there are various other interests which may well pass under.
these acts, which yet are not liable to be taken under a common execution'. Several cases illustrative of this position,
will be found collected in Mr Johnson's Digest, title Execution 2(a).
It appears to me, then, that the true mode, by which we
are to ascertain whether a right of entry passes iinder "the
absconding debtor acts, is not by any forced analogy.to the
case of common executions, but by a just interpretati6n of
the terms .of the- act themselves. The act* of 1801 is in
substance a revision of the act of 1786 ; no draterial distinction between them, applicable to the case before the
court, hap been pointed out at the, argument; and they may
therefbre be treated as substantially- the same.
The act of 1801 begins (section 1) by providing for cases
of absconding and absent debtors, and upon proof thereof,
provides that a warrant shall issue to thfe sheriff commanding him to attach and safely keep "all the estate real and
1ersonai of such debtdr," and make and return a true inventorythereof. "Goods, effects and-choses in action are expiessly declared to be within the reach of the act, It afterwards proceetls- toprovide .for the appointment of trustees,
and authorizes them (section 2.) 1"1o take into their hands
all the estate of such debtor, whether attached as aforesaid;
or afterwardsdiscovered by them, and all -books, vouchers
and papers relating to the same ; andathe said trustees, from
their appointments, shall be deemed vxested with all the estate
of. such debtor, and shall be capable to sue for and recover
de same; and all debts and.things in action due.or belonging to such debt., 'and all the estate attached as -aforesaid,

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis. vs. The Trustees.of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

"

shall be by the sheriff, &c. delivered to the said trustees;
and the trustees, 'or any. two of them, shall sell at public
vendue, after f6urteeii days previous noticeof the time, and
place, all the estate,real andpersonal of such debtor as shall
come to theirhands, and deeds and bills of sale for the same
make and execute, which deeds and bills of sale shall be as
valid as if made by such debtor,"' &c. The act afterwajds
goes on to provide for the distribution of the proceeds of
the sales among the creditors, and then declares, that "the
surplus, if any, after'.all just debts and legal charges:as
aforesaid are satisfied, shall be paid to such debtor or his
legal representatives." There is no provision in.the act as
to what shall be done in respect to any. property which never
came to the hands of the trustees, nor of any property remaining unsold by them when all the debts were satisfied;
-'and the omission may easily be accounted for from the general policy'of the act; for the language is, that the trustees'
shall.sell all the estate which comesto their hands. If the
point were material I should strongly incline to th& opinion,
that the act did not absolutely divest all right and title out
of the debtor of any of hi's estate, which -.should notcome
to the hands of the trustees 'and be sold by Whm. - But.whether this be so or .not, I am clearly of opinion, that when
once all the purposes of the- trust are satisfied, and all. the
debts are paid; if the trustees .have'any legal interest pt'
title vested in then .in the estate of the debtor -remaining
unsold, it is subject to a resultingue for the benefit of the
debtoi, in the same manner as the surplus -'ofthe property.
sold.' Suppose, before the sale, 'all the debts should be paid,
must the trustees go on to sell 9 Suppose all the debts are
paid by a sale- merely of the personal estate, is not their
trust extinguished 9. The trustees take-all the .estate in the
first place for the benefit-of the creditors, and in the next
place, they being. paid, for the benefit of the'debtor. Sub'ject to the rights of the creditors, the dse is in him; -and
by operation of law the estate revests in him, as soon as the
trudt for the creditors is exhausted or extinguished. This
seems to me a reasonable, if not a necessary construction of
the act; for it has provided for no express -reconveyance

SUP EIE COURT.
[Inglis vs..The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

by the trustees to the debtor, in any case whatsoever. It
pertainly could not intend to deprive him of his inheritafice
after all his debts were paifl. And it is but just to give the
act a construction fa urable to the debtor, when all its other
objects are accomplished. In the present case the whole
proceedings ifford a strong presumption that.all the debts
of "P.R. Randall haveL been paid; and none are pretended
to exist. His right of entry in the demanded premises was
never sold, by the trustees ; and even if it vested in them, it
afterwards by operation of law revested -in him, if the trusts
were tll defunct and satisfied. But I go farther, and incline
to the opinion that his right of entry in the demanded premises did not pass to the trustees under either of the attachments. The language of the acts of 1786 and 1801 is
indeed quite brokd, and extends to all the "estate real and
personal" of the debtor. But a right of entry is nbt, as has
been 'already shown, an "estate" in any just and legal sense
of the word. Neither is it a "thing in action ;" for it does
not depend upon any right to sue, but may be enforced by
a mere entry. Ineed, a right of action and a right of entry are often used in contradistinction to each other.
The case of Smith,.&c. vs. Coffin,, 2 H. B1. 444, turns
altogether upon other qonsiderations, and upon the interpretation of the words of the English bankrupt laws. Words
of a very broad import are used in those laws; and the
policy of them is far more extensive than that which governs
the lawr of New York, now under construction. A construction might be properly adopted in respect to the bankrupt laws, which would not apply to the absconding debtor
acts of New York. The general policy of the common law
is to discourage the giant or sale of mere rights of entry and
action, with a view to suppress litigation. This' policy
spreads itself over many important interests I and is so fundamental, that nothing but a very clear expression of the
legislative intention ought in my judgment to overthrow
it. No such intention is to be found in the acts of 1786
and f801. Can it be reasonably presumed that the legislature ineant to authorise the sale of a right of entry to a purchaser .1 If not, was it the intention to enable the trustees

JANUARY TERMA 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailoe's Snug Harbour.]

to reduce the right into possessi6n, and afterwards to sell the
same '. I think the former was manifestly not the intention
of the legislature; and I found mys'olf on the very words of
the acts'. The'trustees are to sell, not all the estate of the
debtor, but all the estate real and personal, "as shaTl conm
to their hands;"that is, as I construe the words, such as they
shall reduce into possession; so that the estate'may bring
its uncontroverted value. But for the reasons.alrgady stated
I incline also to the opinion,- that it was not the intention
of the legislature to 'pass the right of entry to the trustees
so that they might be enabled to reduce it into possession.
,But supposing it to be otherwise; still it appears to me
there is much reason to contend that the trustees, if they
took the right of entry at all, took it sub' modo and exactly
as Paul R. Randall.held it. The legislature did not intend
to invest them with a.better right than he- had. 'He had a
right of entry into 'the estate vested in him by descent, and
he might perfect his'estate by an actual entry during his life
time. But if he died without such entry, then the right to
the estate devolved not upon his owA heir, but-upon the next
heir in the line of descent of Robert R-.-Randall. In-this view
of the act, the trustees were bound, then, torreduce the right
of Paul R. Randall into possession during his life time, if
they meant to perfect their title thereto. Not having done
so, the title devolved upon the next heir who claimed, not
through'them, but from the ancestor from whom Paul R.
Randall took it. This,.however, is not the main ground on
whichi I rely, though it fortifies some of the considerations.
already mentioned. The main ground on which I rely is,
that whatever construction.of the act may be, adopted in
other respects; as soon as all the trusts of the assignment are
executed, there arises a resultinguse to the debtor, which, by
operation of law, will revest all the unsold estate in him. "
Upon the whole, my opinion is, 'that' the proceedings
against Paul R. Randall did not pass his right or interest in
the lands in question, so as to defeat the demafidant in any
respect; but if.
they did, and all the trusts have been satisfied, there is a.resulting use to him. in the unsold Qstate.
The. next question is, whether, inasmuch as the count in

-SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailores Snug Harbour.]

the cause is for. the entire right, in the premises, the deman.
dant can recover a less 'quantity thanthe entirety.
This is a question somewhat involved in technical learning, and therefore requires an accurate examination of the
authorities. Reasoning upon general principles and the
analogies of the law, there would be little difficulty in deciding it in the affirmative; for it is deciding no more than
that he who has a right, shall recover according to his right,
so, always, that he does not recover more than he sues for.
No injury is done to the tenant by allowing the demanidant
who sues for ten acres and -shows a title only to'one, to recover for the latter; nor if he sues for an entirety and shows
title to a moiety, to recover for the latter. And it is. in furtherance' ofjustice that he should so recover; because it prevents multiplicity of suits. For if his suit should abate for
this fault, (and. -that is the only- judgment which could be
pronounced,) he would still be entitled-to a new action for
the* part to which he -had shown title. The falsity of the
.former writ.would constitute no bar.
Let us see, then, h'w the case stands upon authority. By
the old common law, if the writ of the demandant was falsified by' his own confession --(for it is far from being certain
that it was ever -true, when found by a verdict upon the
merits, after the general issue joined)(a), as- to any-thing or
part of a thing demanded in the writ, it abatedfor the whole.
If the matter did not' appear on the face of the record, but
was to be made out by facts dehors, then the tenant, if he
meant to avail himself of it, was compelled to do it-by a plea
in abatement. Thus -ifhe meant.to avail-hinself of nontenure of the whole, or a pari, be mustplead it., But where,
upon the/whole record, .the falsity of the writ was apparent
'by.confession of the. party, there; although the tdnant had.
not pleaded in abatement, it was the duty of the court, ex
officio, to abate the writ..
Now, at the common l.w, there are two sorts of writs in
-

(a) See Plowden, 424,6. Hobart's Rep. 282,6. Fitz. Abridg. Breve, 272.
9 Hen. 6,54. I1 Co.45. Theol. Dig. Lib. 16, ch. 5.

JANUARY TERM 18S0.
(Ingliss..The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

real actions. In one the demand is in a general form, without specification of any lands in particular. Thus in the writ
of assise, the demand is that the tenant " unjustly and without
judgment hath disseised him of hisfireehold i'n
C."(a), without any'further description of the land. So in writs of dower,
the demand is ofithe demandant's "reasonable dower, which
falleth to her of the freehold, which was of A. her late husband in C., whereof she hath nothing,"(b) without more. The
plaint or count is less general, and specifies.the particulars
of the demand, as a messuage, ten acres of land, &c.(c) In
t~le 'other sort of writs, the writ itself is as s'ecial.as the
count. Such is the case of all precipes quod reddat, such
as writs of right, and writs of entry,. &c. where the demand
is of a certain messuage, or ten acres of land, &c. &c. and
•the exigency of the writ is that the said tenant should render the same to the demandant without delay(d)'. , Now, it
was-upon thi difference that -a distinction took place in .the
common law as to the right of the demandant to abridge his
demand.. If the writ was special,, he could not abridge his
demand in.
any caae. .If the writ Whs general, de libero tenemento, he might abridge his.demand at his pleasure, so always
that he did not abridge it of a moiety or .portion, where -he
sued for the entirety of a thing ; as if he sued for ten acres
* he might abridge it to five; but if he sued for. the whole of
a messuage, .he could not abridge it to a moiety, This doctine will be found at large in many cases ; but it is no where
better expounded than in the opinion: of Mr. Justice Juyn,
(afterwards chief justice) in 14 Hen. 6, p. 3, 4.- He said,
"that in all cases where the writ is de libero tenementogenerally, .as in assise and writs of dower; where the writ
is of hei reasonable 'dower, &c. the demandant may abridge
his plaint or demand; and the reason "is because -although
he abridges some -acres, yet the writ remains true as to the
rest, it being liberum tenementum still. .But where a cer(r)Booth on Real Actions, 210. Fitz. N. B. 177.
b) 2 Saund. Rep. 43. Booth on Real Actions, 166. Fitz. N. B, 147.
(c) Corn. Dig. Assize, b. 11. Booth on Real Actions, 212, andmote.
(d) Fitz. N. B. 1, 5,191. Booth Real Actions, 1, 83, 88, 91, 172.

184

1 SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

tain number of acres is demanded in the writ, as in a: formedon, the demandant cannot abridge, for he acknowledges his
.writ false ; and where a writ is acknowledged to be false in
part, it must abate it in the whole; but if in an assise the writ
be, he unjustly disseised him de libero tenemento in A. and B.
and he would abridge his demand as .to all inB. he shall not
abridge; for his writ is false, which supposes him disseised
of the tenement in A. 'and B." As to this. last position there is
some difference in the authorities; but the general position
is unquestionable law(a). But this doctrine even in relation
to assises was of little value to the demandant in many
cases, because it stopped short of the most common sources
of mistake. If, therefore, he counted against one as tenant
of the whole, and lie pleaded non tenure as to part, or joint
tenancy,&c. and it appeared by confession or otherwise,
that the plea was'true, the writ abated as to the whole, for
the falsity of the writ was estallished in'this, that the tenant
was sued as the tenant of the whole, and was tenant only of
part.. This mischief was cured by the statute 25 Edw. 3,
ch. 16, which provided, "that by the exception of non tenure
of parcel, no writ shall be abated but for the quantity of the
"non tenure, which is alleged"(b). Still; however, many difficulties remained behind; for if a party sued for 'an entirety,
as of a manor, or a messuage, or -one acre, and a bar was
pleaded as to a moiety,'or part of the land put inview, &c.
in the plaint, the defendant could not abridge his plaint to
the moiety left, since his writ was for an entirety, and so far
false: the distinction was nice, for he might abridge his
plaint from-two or ten acres to one acre ; but not as to the
extent of his title or' right iii. the land put in view. Suh,however, as the distinction was, (and it suited the subtilty
of the times,) it prevailed until the statute of 21 Hen. 8, ch.
3, which provided, that in assises the demandant might in
all such cases abridge' his plaint, and proceed for the resi(a) See Com. Dig. Abridg. A. 2 Saund. Rep. 44, and note 4. Gilb. Com. P1.
199, 201,202,203. Brooks, tit. Ab.ridg. 14 Hen. 6,p. 4. 9 Hen. 6, p. 42. 3 Lev.
68. Vin. tit. Abridg. Theol. Dig. Lib. 16, oh. 2. Bac. Abridg. Abatement, L.
.(b) See Glb. Hist. C. P. 201.

-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

due(a). But this statute is c6nfined to assises_ and, therefore, left the common law in full force as to all other real
-actions.
Such is a brief 'review of, the doctrine at common law in
respect to the abridgement of plaints by the demandant. It.
is not, however, to be iniagined that the old authorities are
all in. harmony on this-subject. On the contrary, diversities
of opinion seem to have existed from an early period. - In
Godfrey's Case, 11 Co. 42, 45, the court proceeded mainly
oq the rule already stated. Lord Coke, however, thought
that the common and true rule and difference- is where a
man brings an action, be the suit general or certain and
particular, and he-demands two-things, and it appears of his
own showing that he cannot. have- an acion or better. writ
for one of them, there the writ shall not abate for the whole,
but'shall stand for that. which is good. But when a man
"brings an action for two things, and it appears that he. cannot have this writ for one thing, but may have another in
another form, there the writ shall abate 'for all, and shall not
stand for that which is good. The distinction 'has sound
sense in it; but it is inapplicable to the priesent case; because here, the plaintiff has not shown upon the pleadings,
that he has no title to maintain his writ for-the whole(b).
Writs of precipe quod reddat then, except so far as the
statute 25 Edw. 3, of nontenure aided them, stood upon the
footing of the common law. In respect to them, therefore,
the demandant coula not abridge his claim except in cases
of nontcnure; and if his writ could not by his own confession
be maintained for thewhole for-which he sued, his writ abated
for the whole; and it was not material whether he sued -for
the entirety of a certain number of acres, and showed title
to a less. number; or whether he sued for the whole or -a
moiety, and showed title only to a les aliquot part(c). But
(a) See Com. Dig. Abridgement, B. Viner, tit. Abridgement. Theol.:Dig. Lib.
8, ch. 28. Id. Lib. 16, ch. 2. Keilway, 116, p1.6. 5 Hen. 7. 19 Hen. 6, 13.
Brooks, Abridgement, pl. 2.
(b) See 1 Saund. R. 282, 285, note 7.. Com. Dig. Abatement, M.
N. Cro.
Jac. 104. Theol. Dig. B. 8, ch. 28, sec. 13. 9 Hen, 7, 4. (b).
(c) See Corn. Dig. Abatement, L. 1, 2. M. Saville's R. 86. Clanrickard vs.
Sidney, Hob. 273, 274, 279, 282. " Com. Dig. Abridgement, B. Chatham vs.

VOL. III.-Y

-

186

SUPREME COURT.
-[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

unless the falsity of his writ appeared by-his own confession,.
even though it appeared by the verdict, the better opinion
was that the writ was not abated for the whole. Plowden,indeed, in Bracebridge vs. Cook, Plowden, 424, thought the
objection fatal.' But lord Hobart,in Clanrickard vs. Sidney,
Hob. 272, 282, condemned that opinion as erroneous, and
against common experience in his day. And in this last
case it was further held that the variance was but matter of
form, and at all events cured by the statute of jeofails of
18 Elizabeth, ch. 14, after a verdict, even though it appeared
by confession -of the party, upon the pleadings. 'In that case
the writ was formedon for an entirety; and upon the demandant's own confession- it appeared that he' was entitled to
recover but two thirds. But the court held, .that the parties
having gone to trial upon an issue, and the jury having founda special verdict in favour of the -plaintifffor the two thirds,
his suit was not abateable for the whole, but the error was
curedby the.statute of jeofails of 18 Elizabeth, ch. 14(a).
Whoever will read-lord Hobart's learned opinion upon that
-occasion Will perceive the most solid reasons brought in support of it. The doctrine that if a demandant sue for an entirety, he mayyet after verdict 'recover for a moiety, is not only
supported by the case in Hobart's Rep. 1P2, but by fhe case
Cooper vs. Frankling, I Roll. Rep., 384. S.C. 3 Bulst. 148,
and 2 Roll. Ab. Trial, p. 719, pl. 12. The doctrine, that if
he sue'for .amoiety he may recover for a less aliquot part,
may be deduced from the same causes,, for it-stands, upon the
same reasoning as that applicable to entireties. - So was the
reasoning in Saville's Rep. 48, pl. 165(b). -There are many
cases in ejectment where the same doctrine has been maintained, and in none of them has.any distinction been asserted
between an -ejectment and real actions. The ground of
argument has been the variance between the count and verdict ; so that it has turned upon the falsity of the plaintiff's
Sleigh, 3 Lev. 67. Viner, tit.
Abridgement. Fitzherbert's Abridgement, tit.
Breve, 272. Plowaen, 424.
(a) See Bacon's Abridgement, Amendment, B. Theol. Dig. Lib. 16, s. 15,
18. 2, Roll. Ab. 719, pl. 19. Cooper vs. Frankling, 1 Roll. R. 384. S.C.
3 Bulst. R. 148.
(b)-See Scot and Sco's case, 4"Leon. R. 39. Com. Dig. Abatement, M.

JANU ARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

claim and title as propounded in his writ and proved ,at -the
trial. .So was the case of Ablett vs. Skinner, I Sid. 229,
where the ejeetment was for one fourth part of a fifth part;
and the plaintiff's title -upon the trial was but one third part
of a fourth of a fifth pirt; arid- yet-it was held that he was
entitled to recover according to his title. That case was recognized and fully confirmed in the case of Denn d. Burges
vs. Piurvis, 1 Burr. Rep. 326; where .in ejectment the plaintiff sued for a moiety and recovered a third. Lord Mansfield relied on the analogous doctrine in cases of assise.
It mai, then be assumed as certain, that from the ,time of
lord Hobart the general doctrine has been, that the demandant in any real action is entitled to recover less than he
demands in his suit, whether he.demands an entirety or'analiquot part, if the variance is not taken advantage of unLil
after a verdict found on trial had. If, indeed, the matter is
pleaded in abatement, it is fatal to -the Whole suit. So if it
appears of record by the confession of the denfandanf in the
course of the pleadings, the writ is abateable for the whole,
if the tenant choose to.tAke advantage -of -it before verdict.
But if the parties -go to.trial upon the merits, and a verdict,
general o'r special, is found-of any part-for -the demandant,
there the variance between the writ and the title, even
though by the confessipn of the demandant upon the pleadings, is cured by the statute of amendments of 18 Elizabeih,
ch. 14. This, then,.being the state of the law at the time of
the emigration of our ancestors, and the statute of Elizabeth
bing a remedial and not a penal law, and the general piinciple being that statutes made in amendment of the law
before that period constitute a part of our commbn law; the
court might, if it were-necessary, resort tc this principle to,
support the present suit. But such a-resortis not necessary .
because, in the-first place, the present case is not one where
the defect appears- upon, the- cefession of the party.; but if
-at all, appears from facts proved at the trial upon-the gerieral issue. In the next- place, the provisions of the judiciary
act of 1789,,ch. 20, sec. 32,.upon the subject of amendments
and jeofails, are farmore extensive than the English statutes,
and would justify the most comprehensive construction in.

SUPREME. COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snu Harbour.]

favom !of the demandant. And in the last place, the original nicety of the common law doctrine upon this subject, at
least since the time of lord Hobart, seems to have given way'
(where the matter was not pleaded inabatement) to the doctrine oft common sense. As far as we can trace it, it .has
been ldng established in England. Its existence in America has, never been maintained by any positive decision in its
favour' On the contrary, in Massachusetts, where real actions constitute the ordinary remedy for disseisins and ousters,
it has been solemnly adjudged,upon a careful consideration of
the English author.ties that the demandant inay in all cases
recover dess than he sues for, whether he sues for an entirety
or an aliquot part. So are the cases of Dewy vs. Brown;
P Pick. Rep. 387 ; and Somes vs. Skinner, 3 Pick. Rep. 52.;
and the opinion bf very able coImmentators upon this branch
of the l~w(a). There' is nothing in the case of Green vs.
'Liter, 8 Cranch, 229i 242, which trenches upon this doctrine. bo far, indead, as'that case goes, it is favourable to
the denjandant.
I have not thought it necessary to go into a particular examination of the point, wheth.er, if the variance between the'
demandant's title and his. demand in his writ be apparent
only by the finding of the jury upon the general issue, and
not by the pleadings of the parties, or the confession of the
demandant, the writ was abateable for the *whole, upon the
'old doctrine of the' common law. -There is much reason to
believe, as has been already intimated, that under such circursances the 'variance was never -fatal to a recovery pro
tantoj and the modern doctrine in England is certainly in
favoolr of a recovery. But whether it be so or not, independenf of the statute of jeofails, that statute certainly cures the
defpct upon the principles already stated.
%pon the whole. my opinion is, that this.question pught to
bd certified in favour of the demandant.
Thiscause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the, United States for the
(a) Jackson on Real Actions, 296. Stearns on Real Actions, 204.

JANUARY TERM 1880.
-'[Inglis

189

vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

southern district of New York, and on-the questions and
points on which the judges of the said-'circuit court were'
opposed-in opinion, and which were certified to this court
for its opinion, in pursuance of the act of congress for that
purpoe made and provided, and was argued by counsel;
on consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court:
I.. That although the count in the cause is for the entire
right. in the premises, the demandant may recover a less
q.antity than the efitirety.
II-And under the second general point, the following
answers are given to the specific questions :
1. If John Inglis, the demandant, Was born before the 4th
of July'1776, he is an alien, and disabled from taking real

estate by inheritance.
2. If hewas born after the4th of July'-1776, and-before'
the 15th of September of the' same year, when the British
took possessiofi of New York, he would not be under the
like disability.
3. If he was born after the British took possession of New
York, and before the evacuation on the 25th of November
1783, he would be underlthe like disability..
4. If the grand assise shall find, that Charles Inglis the
father, and John Inglis the.demandant, did, in point of fact,
elect to become and continue British subjects, and not American citizens, the demandant is an alien, and disabled from
taking real estate by inheritance.
-Ill. The will of Catherine Brewerton was sufficient to
pass her right and interest in the premises in, question, so as
to defeat the demandant's right to recover so far as her right
or interest extended.
IV The proceedings against Paul Richard Randall, as an
absent debtor, passed his right or interest in the lands in
question to, and vested the. same in the trustees appointed
under the said proceedings, so as to defeat the demandant's
right to recover so far as his right or interest extended ;'unless the grand assise shall find, that the trusts vested in.
the
trustees have been performed ; and if so, the said proceedings will not.defeat the, demandant in any respect.

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The-Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

V. The devise in the will of Robert RicAard Randall of
the lands in question is a valid devise, so as to divest the
heir at law of his legal estate.
Whereupon it is ordered and adjudged by this court to be
certified to the judges of the said circuit court of the United
'States for the southern district of New York:
I. That although the count in the cause is for the entire
sight in the premises, the demandant may recover a less
quantity than the entirety.
If. And under the second general point, the following answers are given to the specific questions:
1. If John Inglisi the demandant, was born before the 4th
of'July.1776, he isan alien, and disabled from taking real
estate by inheritance.
2. If he was born after the 4th of July 1776, and before
the'15th of September of the same year when the British
took possession of New York, he would not be under the
like disability.
3. If -her-was born after the British took possession of New
York, and before the evacuation on the 25th of November
1783, he would be under the like disability..
4 If the grand assise shall find, that Charles Inglis the
father, and John Inglis the demandant, did, in point of fact,
elect to become and continue British subjects, and not American citizens, the demandant is an alien, and disabled-from
taking real estate by inheritance.
III. The will of Catherine Brewerton was sufficient to
pass her right and interest in tbe premises in question, so as
to defeat the demandant's right to recover, so far as her right
or interest extended.
IV. Th6 proceedings against Paul Richard Randall, as an
absent debtor, passed his right or interest in the lands in
question to, and vested the same in the trustees appointed
under the said proceedings, so as to defeat the demandant's
right to recover so far as his right or interest extended.; unless-the grand assise shall find, that the trusts vested in the
trustees have been performed; and if so, the said proceedings will not defeat the demandant in any respect.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees .of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

V. The devise in the will of Robert Richard Randall of
the lands in question, is a valid devise, so as to divest the
heir at law of his legal estate.
All of which is accordingly hereby certified to the said
circuit court.

Mr Webster,.on a subsequent day of the term, submitted
to the court an application in behalf of the demandant,
for a re-argument of this case. He presented, ai the grbund
of the application, a statement in writing signed by thd counsel in the case; Mr Ogden and himself, representing "tha t
the question in this cause, which arises on the construction
of 'the will of Robert Richard Randall, is one, not only of
great importance, but certainly of no'small difficulty. The
case was argued at a time when there were six judges on
the bench. At the time of the decision there were but'five
judges living who had heard the cause; of these five, three
were against the demandant upon the construction of the
will, being a minority of the whole court. Under these circumstances, as counsel for the demandant, in a foreign country, the counsel feel it their duty to ask for'a" re-argument;
the more parti6ularly, as it appears from an affidavit now
stibmitted to the court, that a sister of the demrandant, who is
now and long has been a feme covert, in case of a decision,
upon the construction of the will, in favour of the demandant,
is not subject to the disability of alienism, and may therefore
maintain a suit to. recover.the property in dispute."
Mr Wirt objected to the re-argument, alleging, that should
it be allowed, it would establish a precedent -which woull
render every dunision of the court uncertain; and incumber
*the court with heavier duties than it could perform. It was
without example in the whole course of the court since its
organization;

192

SUPREME COURT.
[Inglis vs. The Trustees of the Sailor's Snug Harbour.]

Mr Chief Justice

MARsHAL.

delivered the opinion of'the

Court. '

The court have considered the application for a re-arguSment in this case. It must be a very strong case, indeed,
to induce them to order a re-argument in -any of the causes
which have been once argued and decided in this court.
The present case has been very fully considered, and the
court cannot perceive any ground in the preseit application, to induce them to consent to the motion. It is therefore overruled(a).
(a) In the Appendix will be found the opinion of Mr Justice Story, prepared
in the case of the Baptist Association vs. Hart's Executrix, 4 Wheat. 1, whib,
by his liberal kindness, the Reporter has been authorised to insert in this volume.
It will be found to illustrate very fully some of the principles decided in this
cause.

