JANUARY TERM 1830.

THE STATE OF Niw JERsEr1 COMPLANAWNTS VS. TE'PEOPLE OF
THE STATE oF NEW YOlE, DEFENDANTS.
"Thesubpoena issued on the filing of a bill in which the state of New Jersey were
comphainanfs,- and the state of New York were defenrilants, was served upon
the governor and attorney general of New York sitydays before the. return da.y, the day of the "iervice and. return inclusive. A second subpmna
issued, which Was served on the governor of New York only, the attorney
general being absent. There was no appearance by' the state of New York.,
".1the Court: This is not like.the case of several defendarits, where:a service
on one might be good, though not on"another. Here the service ptescribed
by thb rule js to bi on the -governor, and on the attorney general. ' A service
on one.is'not sufficiefit to entitle the court to proceed.
Upon an apolication by the counsel for the state of New Jersey,*that a day might
be assigned to'argup the question' of the jurisdictionof this court to proceed
in. tho case, the court'said theyhad-no difficulty in assigning a day. It migft
beas well to:give notice to the'state of New York, as tlfey might employ
indded, the argument shouild be merelyex parte,
counsel in-the interim. If'f
the co rt could not feel bound by'its decision; if the stateof New York desired to have the question again' argued.
A notice was giveri b, the solicitors for the state'of New JerSey.to the governor
of the state of New York, dated the 12th of January 1830, stating- that a bill.
had been filed on the equity side. of the-suprete court,. by the state. of New
Jeisey, against tle pidople of the'state of New York, and that on the 1th bf
February following,'th court would be moved in the case for'siich order as
.the court might deem proper,.&c'- Aftgrwards, oir the day-appoihted, no
counsel having appeared. for the state of New York, on the motion of the counsel- fop the'stat" of New Jersey,.fora subp&na to be served, on the governor
and attorney general of th state bf New York; the court said : as no'counsel
appears to argue the motion on the part of'the state of New York, -andthe
precedent. for' granting it.has been established, uponvery grave and solemn
.iTgumbnt, the eourt do not require an ex parteaargument in favor of their authority to grant the. sbbpgena, but will follow the precedent heretofore established.
The stati of New York vill be at liberty-to c6ntest the proceeding at.a future
they shalf choose so.to do.
fimd'o1h;the cdiqrs, of the cause, -if

A BILL was- filed on the-.equity side of the court, by the
state of-New "Jersey;on the 20th of February 1829, against,
the people of th& state of New York; and on motion of Mr'
Wirt for the complainants, a.subpcena -was awarded by the
court -on the 161h of March 1829. .'The writ issued on the
26thof May 1829. A- .copy of the subpcena and of the bill

462

SUPREME COURT.
[State of Now Jerseyxvs. The State of NeW York.]

was gerved'on the attorney getieral of New Yorkpersonally,
on the 5th day of June I.829, by the marshal of the southarn
district, of New York, and on the acting governor of the'state, by transmitting thd same to him by letter. The acting
governor acknowledged "due service of'the same;" by.an
indorsement or the- subpcena, signed by him on the 5th day.
of June .1829.
The subpoena was returnable, on the first -Monday in
August 1829, being the' third day of that month, and fiftynine days after tne service. And no appearance having, been
entered for the defendants, on th 6,th of.October .1829-an
alias subpcena was issudd,.re.turnable to January term. 1830..
This writ was served on the acting governor of New York
on the 9th of November 1829,.sixty-one days before. the
term, by delivering a rie copy of the same to hii, The
marshal of the southern district of New York returned, -as to
the attorney general of New York, "the attorney general
of New York, Green C. Bronson, Esq. not:found, being absent, and. not within my.district."
Together with the alias subpcena, there was served on .the.
acting governor of the. state. of INew York, in the hinuner
before stated, a notice signed by the solicitor for the corn•plainants, in the following terms:
. "To Enos T. Throop, Esquire, governor of the state of
New York.
1CBy -virtue of a writ of subpoena to vou directed and herewith shown, .you are required to be and appear, on behalf of
the people .of "Ihe state of New York, before the supreme
court of the United States holding pleas. in equy, on.the
second Monday in January next, at the city of Washington,
in the district of Columbia, being the 'present seat of the
natidnal government of the United States, td answer con-,
cerning those things which shill be qbjected to the said
state in a bill in equity now depenn'g in the said court,
ivherein. the state of New J.erseyi s complainant, and the
people of. the state of New York are defendants, to do and
receive, on behalf of the said state of New.York, what further 'the' said court shall have considered in this behalf.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[State of New Jersey vs. The State of New York.]

And this you may in no wise.omit, under the penalty of five
hundred dollars, dated the first Monday of August, in the
year of our Lord 1829."
A similar notice was issued, directed to'the attorney general of New York, but was not served upon him.
No appearance having been filed on the 12th of January
1830, Mr Southard, attorney general of New Jersey, and
Mr Wirt, so*licitors for the complainants, addressed to the
governor of the state and the attorney general of New York
the following letter:
"A bill having been filed on the equity side of the supreme
court of the United States, by the-state of New Jerseyagainst
the people of the state ..of New .York, a copy whereof, with
the usual and regular process of subpcena to appear iad
ainswer the said bill, having been duly served upon you, and
you having failed to .appear on the return day of the said process, notice is hereby respectfully given to you, that .we, .is
solicitors for'the state of Ndw Jersey, complainant in -the said
bill; will move the said supreme court of'the Uiited.States,
on Saturday the 13th of February next, to proceed ex parte
in the said cause, and to take the said bill pro confesso. and'
render, a decree in conformity witl the prayer 'thereof, according to the rules of practice established in the said court,
or for such other order as to the said. court may seem meet;
unless, on or bef6re the said 13th of February next, you shall
have appeared and answered the said bill, or shall show sufficient cause to the contrary."
This letter was delivered to the attorney general -bf New
.York, then in the city of Washington, on the "13th of January 1830, and to the governor of the state on the 21st of
January 1830.
The motion of the solicitors for the plaintiffs cpming on for
argum'ent, on the 13th of February 1830 ; Mr Wirt said, that
there are two questions to be presented: the first, whether
there had been a sufficient service of the subpcena, supposing
the court to have jurisdiction to issue 'it Without ain act of
congress. The second was, whether such jurisdiction existed.
-

46

SUPREME COURT..
tState ef.New Jersey vs. The State bf Ndw Yor .)

The firstsubpmna wap served upon,thegovernot and -attorney gen.eral sixty days before the return day, the day of-the
service and of'the return inclusive. Whether this wds sufflcient, according to th6 course of the court, he was desirous
to know. 'The second subpoEna was served on the -governor
on ly,;.the attorney general being'absefit, ' Was it necessary,
to make the service go'od, that it should be seried-upon both?
.Mr -Wirtyeferred" to -the .rules of. th.e court ,on,this subject,
-particularly.the'rule adopted in -Aiguit term '1796.
Mr Chief Juistic MARsMALL said, ,that this was not like the
caso,6f e veral-defenddnts, where 4.service, on one might be
good, though not qn another. Here ihe servic'e prescribed by
the rule was to be upbnthe governorand upon the attorn.ey
gen'eral A service on one was not sufficient-to, entitle -the
court to proceed against the-state.
Mr.Wirt-then said, ihift he. should be glad to hlve a: day
assigned to argue the point ofjufisdliction, if the court chose,
before another subpena issued; as .ifmightf-if decided against
theplaintlff,prevent unnecessary, expenses.. 'Hewould .ewilling-that it should be-at go distait'a-day, as to enable the
-state of New York to appear and 'employ counsel.. He mentioned three weeks from the day-of the.application.
Mr Cief Justice Marshall said,the court had no, difficulty
in assigningthat day foi.the moti6n- It-might be as well fo
give notice to thb state of N6w-York, as they might employ
ounsel in the..hterim. , If, inde.edj- the arguoient should be
merelyex parte, -the court would not feel bound. by its decision;'if the state'of New'York afterward dbsired to have-the
question again argued(a).
Motign-,gr~nted, and notice directed.
(ay.The folloring Thtersi addressed by the. attorney general -6f gew Yqrk
to.the clerk-6f thecour,-dated July 27,.1829, andtb the chief justice ad :the.
assqiaie justices, dat.ed'J.nuiry 8,.18qo, were rcad during the discussion.

JANUARY TERM 1830.

465

[Slateuf New Jersey vs. The State of New York.]

In'cnfomity with the direction of the court, n.Q ce of
the:day appointed for hearing the-motion for a subpcena was
Vica, )'f. F. 'uly 27, 1829.
William Thomas Carroll, Esquire, Clerk of the Supreme Court of the United'
States.
SIR,

The governor and attorney general of the state of New York were reiently
served with th6 coly of'a bill in equity, said to have been exhibitedin the.supreme court of the United States, by "The State of New Jers6y vs.The ffeople
of the State of New York," and with a subpoena in that cause to appear on the
first Monday of August next.
Lbegleave respectfully to sak, that such service is'regarded on the-part of thb
st te of New Yqrk as utterly void; because the mode adopted is unknownto the
common-law; isnot authorised by any statute of theUnited Statqs, nor warranted
by any existing rule or order of the court out of which the ptocess issued. A
rule on the subject of the'service of process wis adopted in August.term 1796,
.A Dall. Rep. 3201 335; but this rule, so.far 'as I have observed, has been.
omitted in every subsequeit publication of the rules of the supreme court; and
is no doubt obsolte.
Entertaining this view of the subject, it Is supposed that no -proebding will
be had inthe cause, either in vacation or at term, until the court shall-hav?
directed the inode of serving such process, and the prescribed course ihall h.2&
been pursued.
Whether the court-has been clothed with power to-compel the appearance of
a'state as defendant in an original suit or pro'ceeding, is a~question, among"
-others, which will no doubj receive from that high tribunal ali
the considerationthat its importance demands, before any order shall be made in the premises.
I vyill thank you to hand-this to the court, if the subject shall ever be presented
to their conslderatibn,' and shoildany yule-or order be made in; or affecting.this
cause, pleise send'a certified copy', addres.sed to ne at Albany.*
I am, Sir, with great respect,
Your obedient servant,G'REEN C. BRONSON,
.Alorney Generalof. ew York,

Washington City, J1anuary 8, 1830.
To the Honourable the Chief Justice, and his Associate. Justies. of-the. .W
.p'reme Court of the United States.
bill has been exhibited in this court by the state of New Jersey,'agaipst the
bA
pelople of the state of New York, concerning the boundary line between the two
state, atd.a subpona to appear and answer, with a copy.qf the bill, has'been
served upon the govrnor of the state of New York. A notice has recently been
served, that on :the 18th-instant the courtwould be moved to take the bill pro
confieso, and proceed to a dicree for'the want of an appearmnce.

VoL. III.-3 I-

SUPREME -COURT.
[Slate of New Jersey vs. The State of New York.]

forthwith served on the governor, and on the attorney general of the state of New York; and on the day assigned by
the court, the 6th of March 1830, Mr Southard, attorney
general of the state of New Jersey, and Mr Wirt, attended
as counsel for the complainants. No counsel appeared for
the state of New York.'
The counsel for the state of New Jersey inquired of the
court if they would hear an argument on the motion'that a
subpcnna might.issue to be served. on the governor and atto rney general of the state of New York, stating that they
were willing and prepared to go into the same.
.Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL said, as no one appears toargue the motion on the part of the state -of New York, and
'the precedent for granting ,the process has been established
upon very grave and solemn argument, in the case .of Chisholm vs. The State of Georgia, 2..Dall. Rep. 419, and Grayson vs. The State of Virginia, 8 Dall. 320, the court do not
think it proper to require an ex parte argument in favour
of their authority to grant the subpoena, but will follow the
precedent heretofore established.
The court "arc the more disposed to adopt this course, as
the state of New York will still be at liberty to contest the
I bEg leave respectfully to say, that the. opinion is entertained on the part of
the slate of New York, that this*court cannot excrcisd jurisdiction in such a case,
without the authority of an act of cdngress for carrying into execution that part
of the judicial power of the United States which extends to controversies
between two or-more states.
The governor of the state of New York has made a communication upon the
subject of this suit to the legislature now in session ; but it has not yet been
acted upon, so far as I have.been advised. Whether the legislature will autho.
rise any person to appear and 'discuss the question ofjurisdiction; or whether,
for the purpose of obtaining a judicial decision upon-the merits of an unfortunate
controversy, they will order an aplpearance, waiving the question ofjurisdiction,
I am, at this time, unable to determine.
I have deemed it proper to make this communication, to explain what might
otherwise be supposed a want of respect for this It.nourable court,-on the part of
the executive of New'York.
GMEENC. BRONSON,
- .qttorney. General of ,NewYork.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
EState of New Jersey vs. The State.of

ew York.]

proceeding at a future'time in the course of the cause, if it
shall chbose. to insist upon the objection.
On consideration of the motion made by Messrs Southari
and Wirt, solicitors for the complainant in this cause, on
Saturday the 13th day of February of the present term of this
court, praying the court to l ostpone the consideration of this
cause until Saturday the 6th of March of the present term
of this court, with- leave to the counsel for'the said complainant on that day either to argue the point of jurisdiction,
or to move the court for a decree in pursuance of'the notice
therein.recited, or for new process in case the codirt should
determine that the service of the process in this case was not
sufficient to entitle the court to proceed against the state
of New York, or for such -ther order as to the court may
seem meet: it is considered by the court, that as no one
appears to argue this motion on the part of the state of.New
York, and the -precedent has been established in the case of
Chisholm's- Executors against the State of Georgia, the
court do not consider it proper to require an ex parte argument, but will follow the precedent so established after
grave and solemn argument. The court is the more disposed to adopt this course, as the state of New York will-be
at liberty to contest this proceeding at any time in the course
of the cause. Whereupon it is ordered by the court that,
6s the service of the former process in this cause was defective, inasmuch as it was not served sixty days before the
-return day thereof, as required by the rules of this court,
procesb of subpcena be, and the same is*hereby-awarded as
prayed for by the complainant(a).
(a) The following is a copy of the subpoena awarded by the coprt:
The president of the United States to the governor and the attorney generaL
of the state of New York, greeting :-For certain causes offered before the su. preme court of the United States, holding jurisdiction in equity, you are hereby
* commanded and strictly enjoined, that, laying all matters aside, and notwithstanding any excuse, you personally be and appear, on behalf of the people of the
said state of New York,'before the said supreme court, holding jurisdictioni in
equity, on the first Monday in August next, at the city of Washington, in the

468

SUPREME COURT.

Slate of New Jersey vs. The State of New York.]
district of Columbia, being the present seat of the national government of the
United States, to answer concerning the things which shall then and there be
objected to the said state, and to do further and receive on bqhalf of the said
state, what the said supreme court, holding jurisdiction in equity, shall have considered in this behalf; and this you may in no wise onit, under the penalty of
five hundred dollars. Witness, the honourable John Marshall, Esquire,. chief
justice of the said supreme court at Wishington city, the second Monday in January, being the 11th day of said month, in the year of ourLoid 1830, and of
the independence of the United States the fifty-fourth..
WILLIAM THOM S CARROLL,

Clerk of the Supreme Court of the United States.

