SUPREME COURT.

ROBERT CixNow.Tir, jAEs TRACYW AND ToxAs W]MMOUTH,
PLAMUTF~S xN E~nxa.vs. Tim LESSEE op~ B=r~Axwn HASKELL
A"W OTHERS, DEFFNDANTS.

The defendant in the court below having withdrawn his cause from the jury by a
demurrer to evidence, or having submitted to a verdict for the plaintiff, subject
to the demurrer, cannot hope for a judgment -in his favour, if by any fair construction of the evidence the verdict can be sustained. [96]
It is an obvious principle that a grant must describe the land to be conveyed,
and that the subject granted must be identified by the description given of it
in the instrument itself. The description of the land consists of the courses
amd distances run by the surveyor, and of the marked trees at the lines and
comers, or other natural objects which ascertain the very land which was actually surveyed. [96]
If a grant be made which describes the land granted by course and distance only,
or by natural objects not distinguishable from others of the same kind, course
sand distance though not safe guides aretbe only-guides given, and must beused. [96]
The line which forms the western boundary of the land intended to be granted
was never run or markei. In his office the surveyor assumed a course and
distance, and terminates the line at two small chesnut oa s. But where are
we to look for those two small chesnut oaks in a wilderness in which one man
takes up fifty thousand acres and another one hundred thousand.! or how iure
we to distinguish them from other chesnut oaks. The guide, and the only
guide given us by the surveyor or by the grant, is the course and distance.
[96].
It is admitted that the course and distance called for in~a grant mray be controlled and corr6cted by other objects of description which show that the survey
actually covered otherz ground than the lines of the grant would comprehend.
[98]

WRIT of error to the district court of the western district
of Virginia.
This case was argued by Mr Doddridge, for the plainitiff
in error, no counsel appearing for the defendant. He contended :,
1. That Wilson does notprove the making of any actual
survey of the three last lines, and all that he does prove is
that he protracted them.

2. That in protracting thp lineD. E. he guessed at acourse

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Chinoweth et al. vs. Lessee,of Haskellet a.]

and distance whicli he supposed would reach Young's corner; which he missed about five miles.
3. That he only proves it to have been his intentioA to g6
to Young's corner. He did not in this'certificate of survey
call for a, corner to Young, but 6bnly for two chesnut oaks
in a country where there is scarcely any othei timber.
4. That course and distance, as called for, may be corrected
by other matters-of desctiption inthe certificate and grant,
by any natural call or description which may identify a corner, or render it certain ; as ",
two. ckesnut oaks, corner to
Robert Young's survey 'of
one hundre4i thousand acres, &c.
the first, second, or third corner, &c."
Such'corrcction of
course and distance cannot be made by a secret, undisclosed
intention that the two chesnuts he called for should be-those
.at one of Young's corners.
5.The course and distances called' for in the grant Will
locate the grant on the waters and water -courses, precisely
'asstated in the grant.. This appears by the surveyor's diagram, which with the grant is record evidence of this fa't.
Let the courses and distances called for be varied accotding
to Wilson's secret intention, the case will be:very differenvt
The grant calls to be on part of Clover 'un, on Cheat
river, and tP -include the waters of Pheasant .run. These
dest.riptions suit either mode of locating the grant :but ihe
grant calls to be on -thewaters of Tyjgart valle~y, and to include part of the waters of Hornback's run 'and, the cherry
tree fork of Leading creek-.. Whereas, as he would locate
his grant, it will. include not onlypart of the Waters of Hornback's run and the Cherry Tree fork of Leading creek, but all
these two streams and their waters, and even all Lea:ding
creek-itself, of which they are small branches; and his survey will be, not on th6 waters of Tygart valley river, but on
the river itself, crossing it four times.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of. the
court.
-The judgment in this cause Was rendered by the couit.of
the United States, for the western district of Virginia, inan'
ejectment brought by the defendantsin error, to recover

94

SUPREME COURT.
[Chinoweth et a]. vs. Lessee of Haskell et a].]'

fifty thdusand acres of land, a part oi which was in the
occupation of the defendants in the court below. The defendants in that court disclaimed ai to the part of the land
for which judgment was entered against the casual ejector,
and went to trial as to the residue. The original plaintiff*
having the eldest title, the case depended entirely on the
question whether their grant covered the land in dispute.
If it be surveyed according to- the courses and distances
called for, itwill entirely exclude that land. The plaintiffs,
howlever, claim to survey -it in such manner as to comprehend the tenements in possession of the defendants.
A survey was made, and the diagram of the surveyor, with
his report, exhibits the respective claim; of the parties. The'
diagram A. B. C. D. E. F. A. represents, the land .claimed
by the plaintiffs. A. B. C. D. G. H. A. represents the land,
which, as the defendants contend, the grant to the plaintiffs
ought to cover. A. B. C. and D. form'the northern side of
the tract, and are admitted by"both parties to be correctly
laid down. The question is whether the next line should
run from D. to E. as contended by the plaintiffs, or from D.
to G. as contended by the defendants. Theline from D. to
G. corresponds' in course and distance with the call of the
patent; it is S.- nine W. four thousand six hundred poles.
The line from D. to E. is S. twenty-eig~t degrees nine minutes west, four thousand eight hundred and fifty-four loles,
varying nineteen degrees nine minutes from the course, and
two hundred and fifty-four poles from the distance.. This
variance, places the. corner at' E..about fiye miles -west from
that at G.,. and produces a correspondent change in the two
remaining lines which form the southern and western sides
of the land..
At the trial, the defendants demurred to the plaintiffs' testimony, and the jury found a .verdict for the plaintiffs, subject to the opinion of the court on the demurrer. * The court
overruled the demurrer and gave judgment for the plaintiffs.
, The demurrer states that at the trial the plaintiff gave in
evidence the:plat and report rhade by ihe surveyor, which
show that the 'lines from A. to D. which bind the land on
north, conform to the patent. That the other three lines D.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Chinoweth et al. vs. Lessee of Haskell et al.]

E., E. F. and F..A. which inclose the land on the west, south,
and east, are not marked, nor is any corner found at F. At
E. two chesnut oaks were found where two chesnut oaks were
called for'in the patent. They are marked as a corner pre:viously made for Robert Young. The lines'D. G., G: H. and
H. A. laid down by the directions of the defendants conformably to the patent, are not marked.
The plaintiffs also gave in evidence the patent under which
they claimed, dated the 9th of July 1796, -the conveyance of
the patentees to them, and an official copy of the plat and
certificate of survey on which the grant was founded. The
land is described as lying.oi the waters of Tygart valley river,
Cheat river, to include the waters ofiPheasant run and a part
of Clover-run, part of the waters of Benjamin Hornback's and
Cherry Tree fork of Leading creek. They also-gave'in evidence tl-e grants under which the defendants claimed, .with
the entries and surveys on which they were founded. which
were younger than that under which the plaintiffs claimed.'
They also read the deposition of William Wilson. He deposes that he made the survey of fifty thousand acres in 1795.
He proves that he began at A. and ran the line on the north
side of the tract to D. 'He then protracted a line intended to
strike two chesnut oaks near the head of James's run by the
side of a path leading from Tygartvalley to the Louth of Se-•
Sneca, which was a corner he had previously marked to a sur'vey of one hundred thousand acres he had made for Robert
Young. From those two chesnut oaks he ran to Tygart valley
river. Not having a sufficient distance, and finding that the
line would cross the river several times, he extended the
course and called for a white oak, because he knew there were
.white oaks there about. He does not know whither the course
and distance would have carried -himto the east or west side
of the river. He then protracted a line to the beginning. On
being cross examined he said he made the line from J). to E.
in his office, and laid it down, intending to hit the two chesnut oaks near James's run. He went to the two chesnut oaks
and ran to the river (not quite half the line E. F.) where he
stopped, and continued the line E. F. the proper distance,
and also piotracted the closing line F. A. He had no axe-

SUPREME COURT.
[Chinoweth etal vs. Lessee of Haskell et al.]

man with. him, consequently marked nio trees. He was accompanied by only one individual, and does not allege that
a chaim was stretched.
The defendants in the district court having withdrawn their
cause from thejury'by a demurrer to evidence, or having submittd to a verdict fbr the plaintiffs subject to that demurrer,
cannot hope for a judgment in their favour, if, by any fair construction of the"evidence, the verdict can be sustained. If
this cannot be-done, the judgment rendered for- the defendants in error must be revered.
It is an obvious princiole tti~t a grant must describe the
land to be coniveyed, and that- the subject granted must. be
identified by the description given" of it in the jinstrument
itself. For the purpose of furniihing this description and'of
separating the land from that Which' is-not appropriated, the,
law directs a survey t6 be made by sworn ofiicers, who,-" at
-the time of making such -survey, shall see the,same bounded
plainly by marked trees-, except where a watef course or ancient marked line shall be the boundaryY -The persons
employed to- carry the chain are to be sworn by the surveyor
to measure justly and exactly to'the best of their abilities.
The.description of the land 'thus made by a s*urvey is transfeired into the grant. It consists of the courses and distances
run by the survejor, and of the marked trees at the lines and
corners, or other natural objects which ascertain the very land
which was actually surveyed, The courses aid distances are
less certain and less permanent guides 'to the land actually
.surveyed and granted, than, natural-and fixed objects on the
ground; but they are guides to sonte eitent, and, in the absence of all others, must govern us. If a giant be made which
describes the land granted by course and distance only, or
by natural objects'not distinguishable from- others ofthe
same kind; course and distance, though not safe guides, are
,the only. guides given us, and must be used.
In the case at bar the line from>D. to E. or from D.' to G.
which fo-ms .the western 'bouhdary of the land intended to
be granted, was never run or marked.. -In his office, the surveyor assumed acourse and disfance, and terminates the
.line at two small chesnut oaks. But where are we to -look
-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Chinoweth et al. vs: Lesee of Haskell et al.]

for these two small chesnut oaks in a wilderness in which
one man lakes up fifty thousand acres of land, and another
one hundred thousand '.Or how are We to distinguish them
from other chesnut oaks '.The guide and the only guide
given us by the survey, or by the grant, is the course and distance. We are to find them at the end of a line of four
thousand six hundred poles, to be run south nine degrees
west from the established corner at D. - We are furnisied
with no other guide which may conduct us to them. That
the surveyor had in his mind the two small chesnut oaks'
which he had marked as a c9rner to Robert Young can be
of no avail, since he has not indicated this intention on his
survey. He has impliedly indicated the contrary. When
the established line or corner of a prior survey is made part
of a boundary, it is usual to designate such marked line or
corner by naming the person whose line or corner it is. The
call for two small chesnut Oaks without farther description,
would rather exclude the idea that they.were already marked
as the corner of a previous survey.
The fact that the surveyor on a subsequent day went to
Young's corner, and without marking it as a corner for the
survey he was then employed to make, walked along the iine
he intended for the southern boundary of the land. nearly
half the distance, without marking a singlae free, cannot in*
adly'manner affect the case.
In estimating this evidence we. may inquire what weight
would be allowed to it if the grantee .claimed to hold the
land actually within, his patent lines, and this testimony was
'opposed to him by a junior patentee within those lines ? We
believe that no person would hesitate an instant to say that
his title to the land actually within the lines of his patent,
was unquestionable. He cannot-be permitted after the grant
has issued to elect-what ground it shall cover.
This opinion derives -some' additional weight from the
general description of the country as made in the grant, and
as shown on the.plat dnd report of the survey made by order
of court in the cause.
The grant calls. to be onthe waters ofTygart valley, and
to include, part. of the waters of Hornback's raun, and the
VOL. III.-N

,SUPREME COURT.
[Chinoweth et al. vs. Lessee of Haskell et al.]

Cheriy Tree fork of Leading creek. This description accords
with the survey as required by the plaintiffs in error. The
grant,.if placed as the defendants in error claim to place it,
will include, as is shown by' the survey made in the cause,
not only part of the waters of Hornback's run and the Cherry
Tree fork of Leading creek, but all these two streams, and
even all Leading creek itself, of which they are small branches. It will also, instead Gf being on the waters of Tygart's
valley river, lie on the river itself, which it crosses several
times. The general description then contained in the grant,
fits the land coi&prehended within the lines of the patent
much better'than it does that which is claimed by the defendants in error.
It is admitted that the course and distance called for in
a grant.may be controlled and corrected by other objects
of description which show that -the survey actually covered
other ground than the lirie of the grant would comprehend.
If the grant, in this case, had called for two small chesnut
'oaks marked as a corner to Robert Young's survey of one
hundred thousand acres,'the mistake in the course and distance wouldnot have prevented the line from being run prom
the cornetr at D. to the chesnut oaks. So if a plain marked
line, originally run from the one corner to the other, had
shown that the- land claimed was the land actuhlly surveyed.
But neither the grant nor the face of the plat furnishes any
information by which the corner called for in the grait can
be controlled. We are therefore of opinion that the defendant iierror is not 'entitled to the land shown by the survey made in the cause to be in possession of the plaintiffs in
error, and that the demurrer ought to have been sustained.
The judgment is reversed .and the cause remanded with
directions to enter judgment in favour of the defendants in
the district court.

