JANUARY TERM .1820.

loGtU., PLA Tvp IN,ERROR v:.Tim UmoN B~A
Gonoi B.M
or GEoRGEvowir; DEvr.&ii'i~s iN Eitito.
,Anaction was brought by the Union Bank pf Georgetown against George B.
Magruder as indorser of a promissory note drawn by George Magruder., The
miaker of the note died before it became payable, and letters of administration
to his estate were.taken out by the indorser. No notice of the non.payment
of the note was given td-the indorser, or any demand of payment made until
the institution of this suit. Held, that the indorser was discharged, and his
having become the administrator of the drawer does not relieve the holder'
from the obligation to demand payment ofthe note, and to give-'notice therebf
to the indorser."
The general rule, that payment must be demanded from the maker of a note, and
notice of non-payment forwarded to the indorser within due time, in order to
render him liable, is so firmly settled that no authority need be cited to support
it. Dui diligence to obtain payme.nt from the maker, is a condition precedent,
on which the liability of the ipdorser depends. [90]

IN the circuit court of the district of Colunbia, for the
county.of Washington, the defendants in error irnstituted
suit against.George B. Magruder, the Plaintiff inerrcr, upon
a promissory. n9te drawn by George Magruder in favour of
and indorse-d by.the plaintiff in error, dated Washington,
November 8th, 1817; for six hundred and forty-three dollars
twenty-one cents, payable seven, years after date. After the
making of the note, the drawer, George Magruder, died, and
on the 18th of November .1822, admnistration of his effects
was granted to George B. Magruder, the plaintiff in error.
The note having been due on the 11th of November 1824,
was
not paid.
Upon
the trial of the cause, the plaintift, in support
of the
issue joined, offered.in evidence to the jury the promissory
note, issued the 18th'of November 1823, the hand writiqg
of the maker, and the indorsement by-the-defendant hving
been admitted.; and further proved that the defendant .had,
previous tp the note falling due, taken out letters of admihistration in the county of Montgomery, in the state of Maryland,. upon the personal'estate of George Magruder, the.
maker of the said note, on the 18th of November 1823; the.

:a

SUPREME COURT.
[Magruder vs. The Union Bank of Georgetown.]

said George Magruder having previously departed this. life.
It was admitted that the note in question had never been protqsted, nor had any notice been given to this defendant that
the note was- n9t. pid: Upon these circumstances, the counsel for 'the defendant moved the court to instruct the jury,
that before the.plaintiff can recover in this action, it is essential for him, to prove demand and notice to the indorser, of
the non-payment; which not being done, the verdict should
be for the defendant. But the court refused to give the instruction prayed for. as aforesaid, and charged the jury, that
no'demand of notice of non-payment was necessary. To this
refusal and instruction the counsel for the defendant excepted, and the court sealed a bill of exceptions, and this writ
of error was prosecuted:
The case was argued by Mr Coxe for the plaintiff in error,
and by Mr Dinlop and Mr Key for the' defendant.
Mr Coxe contended, that the fact that the indorser of. the
note had become the' administrator of the drawer, did not
release the holders' of the note from any of the duties and
legal obligations they were under, to give notice to the
indorser of the non-payment of the note,-and that payment
was expected from him. The letters of administration were
granted out of the- district of Columbia; but if. they had
been issued within the district, the law would have been the
'same.
As a general rule, notice was necessary, and notice must
come from the holder of the note, to apprise the party that
he *islooked to for payment. Chitty, 292.
The mere fact that the indorser had been the representative of the drawer, did not imply a knowledge of the nonpayment of the note; and if 'it did, notice of its non-payment was not thereby dispensed with. Chitty, 293. 1 T.
Rep. 167. 2 Con. Rep. 654. The legal obligations of an
indorser become complete on notice, and are not such until
notice.
The obligation to give notice has been declared to exist
ina case in which, if it ever could he excused, it would have
been waived under its circumstances. Where one person

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Magruder vs. The Union Bank of Georgetown.]

was a inember of two partnerships, one of which signed, and
the other of which indorsed, it was h, Id, that presentment
for payment Was necessary to.charge he indorser. Bayley
on Bills, 159.
Mr Dunlop and Mr.Key, for'the defendant, admitted the
general rufe to be as stated by the counsel for'the plaintiff
in error; but exceptions had been allowed to the rule,. and
on the 'same principles, the present was entitled to exemption from its stricter application.
In the Bank of Columbia vs. French, 4 Cranch, 161, when
this note was-drawn for the use of the indorser, notice was
not required. His knowledge that the obligation to pay was
upon him, made the notice unnecessary.
The plaintiff in error, as administrator of the drawer, became the payer of the note, and as such was bound to do so
without demand; no demand on him being required, it was
useless to give him notice that he had not done what he
well knew he had omitted.
The purpose of the rule as to- notice did not exist here:
if notice was required to enable the indorser to secure himself by calling on the drawer, this could not be done; and as
he had the. estate of the drawer in his hands for his indemnity, no demand of the indorser was necessary. Bank of the
United States vs. Corneal, 2 Peters, 552.
The law never requires that to be done which is useless;
and therefore 'the defendant in error, -who could not by the
notice or by its omission have affected the rights of the indorser, or his .means of protecting himself from loss, was
not required to give it.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was brought by the Union bank of Georgetown
against George B, Magruder, as indorser of a promissory
note made by George Magruder. The maker of the note died
befbre it became payable; and letters of administration on
his estate were taken out-by the indorser. When the note
becanve payable, suit was commeficed against the indorser,
Vov. III.-M

SUPREME COURT.
[Magruder vs. The Union Bank of Georgetown.]

without any demand of payment other than the suit itself,without any protest for non-payment, and without any notice that
the note was not paid, and that the holder looked to him as
indorser for payment. Upon these circumstances the counsel for the defendant moved the court to instruct the jury,
that before the plaintiff can recover in this action, it is essential for him. to prove demand, and notice to the indorser of
the non-payinent; which not being done, the verdict should
be for the defendant. But the court refused to give this instruction, and charged the jury, that no demand or notice of
non-payment was necessary. -To this opinion the counsel
for the defendant in the .circuit court excepted, and-has
brought the cause to this court by writ of error.
The general rule that payment must be demanded from
the maker of a note, and notice of its non-payment forwarded
to the indorser within due time, in order to render him liable, is so firmly settled that no authority need be cited in
support of it. The defendant in error does not controvert
this rule, but insists that this case does not come within it;
because demand of payment and notice of non-payment are
totally useless, since the indorser has become the personal
representative of the maker. 'He has not however cited any
base in support of this opinion, nor has he shown that the
principle has been ever laid down in any treatise oi promissory notes and bills. The court ought to be well satisfied of the correctness of the principle, before it sanctions
so essential a departure from established commercial usage.
This suit is .not brought against George B. Magruder as
administrator of George Magruder, the maker of the note,
but against him as indorser. These two characters are as
entirely distinct as if the persons had been different. A recovery agiinst George B. Magruder, as indorser, will not affect
the assets in his hands as administrator. It is not a judgment
against the maker, but against the indorser of the'note. The
fact that the inidorser is the representative of the maker does
not oppose any obstacle t6 proceeding in the regular course.
The regular demand of payment may be made, and the note
pOrotested for non-payment, of which notice may be given to
him as indorser with as much facility as if the indorser had

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Magruder vs. The Unio. Bank of Georgetown.]

not been the administrator. It is not alleged that any difficu"lty existed in proceeding regularly ;-the allegation is, that
it was totally useless.
The note becaife payable on the 8th day of November
1824. The writ was taken out against the indorser on the
26th day of April 1825. If this unusual-mode of proceeding
can be sustained, it must be on thb principle that, as the indorser must have known that he had not paid the note,- as
the representative of the maker, notice, to: him. vias useless.
Could this be admitted : dods it dispense with the. necessity
of demanding payment!. It is possible. that assets which
might have been applied in satisfaction of this debt, had payment been demanded, may have received a different directi6n. It is possible that the note may have been paid by
the maker before it fell due. Be this as it may, no principle
is better settled in commercial transactions, than that the undertaking of the indorser isconditional. If due diligenoe
be used to obtain payment from the. maker, without success,
and notice of non-payment be given to him in time,.his uhndertaking becomes absolute; not otherwise. Due diligence
to obtain payment from the maker, is a condition, precedent,
on which the liability of the indorser depends: As no attempt
to obtain payment from the maker was made -in. this case,
and no notice of non-payment was given to the indorser, we
think the circuit court ought to have given the instruction
prayed for by the defendant in that court.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded, with
directions to award a venire facias de novo.

This cause came on to be-heard on the transcript of the
record from thp circuit court of the United States for the
district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment
of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the.same is
hereby reversed, and that the said cause be and the same,isr
hereby remanded to thesaid circuit'court, with- ditectionij o
award a venire facias de novo in,
said cause.

