-

410

SUPREME COURT.

JoHN G. M'DoNA D, PL.AMTIFV

i

N EitnO

vs. GEORoE 13. MA-

GRUDEE, DEFENDANT.

A note was discounted at the office of discount and deposit of the bank "f,
the Tnited States in the city of Washington, for the accommodation of the
drawer, indorsed by Magruder and by M'Donald; neither of the indorsers receiving anyvalue for his indorsement, butindorsing the note at the request of the
drawer, without any communication with each other. The note was renewed
from time to time, under the same circumstances, and was at length protested
for non-payment: and separate suits having been brought by the bank against
the indorsers, the drawer being insolvent,judgmenCs in favour of the bank were
obtained against both the indorsers. The bank issued an execution against
Magruder, the first
indorser, and he having paid the whole debt and costs,
instituted this suit against MI'Donald, the second indorser; for a contribution,
claiming one half of the sum so paid by him in satisfaction of the judgment
obtained by the bank. Held, that he was not entitledto recover.
That a prior indorser is, in tjie regular course of business, liable to his indorsee,
although that indorsee may have afterwards indorsed the note, is unquestionable. When he takes up the note he becomes the holder as entirely as if he
had never parted with it, and may sue the indorser for the amount. The first
indorser undertakes that the maker shall pay the note, or that he, if due diiigence be used, will pay it for'him. This undertaking makes him responsible
to every holder, and to every person whose name is on the note subsequent to
his own, and who has been comlielled to pay its amount. [474]
The'indorser of a promissory note, who receives no value for his indorsement
from a subsequent indorser, or from the drawer, cannot set up the want of consideration received by himself; he is not permitted to say. that the promise is
imade without consideration ; because money paid by the promissee to another,
is as valid a consideration as if paid to the promissor himself. [476]
Co-sureties are bound to contiuute equally to the, debt they have jointly undertaken tq pay; but the undertaking must be joint, not separate ani* successive.
[477]

ERROR to the circuit court of the county of Washington, in the distr ,t of Colombia.
This was an action o f assumpsit, instituted in the circuit
court by the defendant in error against the plaintiff in this
court. The matters in controversy were submitted to the
jury by a case agreed, which stated, that the plaintiff produced in evidence a promissory note drawn by Samuel Turner, Jun. in favour of George B. Magruder, or order, at sixty
days, for S900, payable at the office of discount and deposit
at Washington, for value received ; which, note was signed by

JANUARY TERM 1830.
EM'Donald vs. Magruder.]

Samuel Turner, Eind indorsed by George B. Magruder, and
by John G. M'Donald.
The note was'so drawn and indorsed, with the understanding of all the parties thereto, that itshould be discou ed in the office of discount and deposit, for th6 sole
use and accommodation of the maker, Samuel Turner; no
value being received by either of the indorsers. It was so
discounted, and the proceeds thereof applied to the credit
of Turner, in the office. Long before-the making of the
ni6te, viz. in the year 1819, Turner had two notes discounted for his use and accommodation in the office, viz. one
for $270, indorsed by Geoige B. Magruder and by G.
M'Donald, and. one for $710, indorsed by George B. Magruder and one Samuel'Hambleton ; which last mentioned
note was continued, by renewal, with the indorsement of Magruder and Hambleton, until September 1820,,when, in consequence of. Hambleton's absence, it was protested; after
which the office permitted the accommodation 'to be renewed, upon condition that Turner would get another
good indorser in the place of Hambleton. Whereupon
John G. M'Donald, upon the solicitation of T6rner, indorsed a note for the sum of $710, which was brought to
him, already indorsed by George B. Magruder. That in
March 1821 a small part of the money having been paid,
the two notes were consolidateod and renewed .by one note
for $950, drawn by Turner, and indorsed by Magruder and
by M'Donald,- which was from time to time renewed by notes
similarly drawn and indorsed ; the last of which is this note,
so produced in evidence by the plaintiff. Neither at the
time of indorsing the notes respectively, nior at- any otht
time, was there any communication between Magruder and
M'Donald upon the subject of such ind6isement. Both of
them however knew at the time ofindorseincnt the notes were
intended to be discounted for the accommodation of Turner;
and in every instance_ Magruder was the first* itidorser.
The note, so produced in evidence. by the *plaintiff, not
having been paid when due, was duly protested; and the
payment thereof having been duly demanded, and due notice
given of such demand, and of nobi-payment having been

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Doaald vs. Magruder.]

given to the indorsers, judgments at law were recovered
against both, by the Bank of the United States; arid the
whole amount having been, paid by Magruder, he brought
this suit to recover from M'Donald one half of the amount so
paid by him.
By consedt of the parties,- a verdict was rendered for the
plaintiff, for one hialf of the- amount so paid by the said Magruder, in satisfaction of the judgment. against him; subject
to the opinion of the court upon. the case agreed.
Upon the case stated, the court below gave judgment for
the plaintiff; and the defendant sued out this writ of error.
Mr Jones, for the plaintiff in error, contended,
1. That by the showing of the plaintiff himself, in the
ease stated, there never was any contract between the parties,
but what their several indorsements .onthe note import.
2. That the import and effect of the contract of indorsement, the only contract between the parties, and that not
attempted to be explained or modified by any collateral
agree ment or understanding whatever, werg that the plaintiff
himself,as first indorser and..payee of the note, should pay and
satisfy the whole amount of the note, in default of the maker,
and should completely indemnify and save'harmless the- defendant, as last indorser, against all recourse from the holder.
Consequently, if the bank had chosen' to'enforce the separate judgment wJlich they had recovered against the last,
instead of the first indorsei, the former would.have been entitled to recover of the latter, not a moiety, but the whole. of
the amount.
8. That this, the legal effect of the only contract subsisting between the parties, so far. from being changed or impaired, is confirmed and strengthened by the origin and
circumstances of the debt, as explained in the case stated;
from which it appears, that near three-fourths of the amount
consisted of a prior debt due from the plaintiff to the bank,
for which M'Donald-never was liable, till he made himself
so, as indorsee of the plaintiff below, and as second indorser,
.This action, was brought by the first indorser against the
second indorser of a promissory note, for contribution, lie

JANUARY TERM 1830,

473

[M'Donald v$. Magruder.]

having paid the note to the holder. , There 'never was any
contract between the parties but that which appears.on the

face of the note. In the true sense of this agreement,,fagruder promis'es to pay the -note in case of- the failure of the
.drawer to' do 'so, and to.save' the subsequenf indorser, the
plaintiff in error, harmless. There is nothing coliateril to
this agreement; were' it necessary or proper to go into any
inquiry as to the real circumstances of the parties, three"fourths of the sum received on the discount of the note were
aor
Magruder's use.
The only circumstance'upon which the claim if the de'fendant in error can be supposed to rest, is; that the note was
to go into bank for the benefit of the drawer ;*.and this will
not raise a contract, either express.r by implication, differ-.
ent from that which is the known and' established construction of such instruments. This is well known; and all' who
become parties to such contracts, are bound by the well- established principles of law, operating upon them under such
relations.

Mr Key, for the "defendant,.saidthe question presented in
this case is not. novel. It has been frequently disdussed
in courts, and the position assumned for--the defendant 'in
error is founded.in equity.' It is claimed-to divide the loss.
sustained by the failure of the drawer of the note between
the'indorsers. -Thebank had judgment against the indorsers.
Magruder paid the whole amount of the execution against
him, and proceedings on the execution against M'Donald
were stayed, until this suit shall determine the iights of the
parties.
In this case the note was made for the sole purpose of dig'count for the drawer, and the indorsers put their names upon
it for that purpose only. As between the"bank, there -is nodoubt the obligation of each was for the whole amount of :the'
note; but between themselves it'was not so. They united'
for the drawer, and they made'no contract with each other
for indemnity. The only contract was, that each should become one of two indorsers, for the benefit of the drawer, and
that they would become mutual and equal sureties.
VOL. 11I.-3 K

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Donald vs. Magruderj

In other commercial contra.cts, the circumstances under
which they arise are gone into.' A bill of exchange drawn
without funds in the hands of the drawer, is.not subject to
the strict rules of notice. So also where a note has been discounted for the use of the indorser. The bank -of Colimbia vs. French, 4 Cranch, 141. These cases show, that in
actions on negotiable paper you may go beyond the form of
the contract.
In the present case, the note was drawn, and after it was
indorsed by Magruder, was handed back to Turner; it was
then, at the request of Turner, indorsed by M'Donald' and
was delivered to the bank by the drawer. Between the indorsers there was no contract, no consideration passed from
the first to the second, and they stood as sureties between
each other. Cited, 13 Johns. 52. 3 Harris & Johns. 125.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment rendered by the circuit court of the Vnited States, for the county of Washington, in the district of Columbia, in an action of indebitatus
assumpsit, broughiby the first indorser of a promissory note
against the second indorser, to recover half its amount. The
note was made by Samuel Turner, Jun. and indorsed George.
B. Magruder, John G. M'Donald. At the trial of the cause
a case was agreed by the parties, and the judgment of the
circuit court was rendered in favour of the plaintiff on
verdict given by the jury, subject to the opinion of the court.
That a prior indorser is, in the regular course of business,
liable to his indorsee, although that indorsee may have afterwards indorsed the same note, is unquestionable. When
he takes up the note he becomes the holder as entirely as
if he had never parted with it, and may sue the indorser for
the amount. The first indorser undertakes that the maker
shall pay the note; or that he, if due diligence be used, will
pay it for him. " This undertaking makes him responsible to
every holder, and to every person whose name is on the note
subsequent to his own, and who has been compelled to pay
its amount.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[M'Donald vs. Magruder.]

This is the regular course of business wheie notes are iMdorsed for valud: but it is contended that. where less than
the amount is received, the indorser is responsible tohis immediate indorsee only for the sum actually paid; consequently, if nothing is paid, the mere indorsement does not
bind the indorser to pay his immediate indorsee any thing.
If B. indorses to C. the note of A. without value, and A. fails
to take it up,.it is as between B. and C. a contract without
consideration, on which no action arises. This is undoubtedly true if C. retains the note in his own possession; :and
may be equally true if he indorses it for value. When he
repays the money he has received, he is replaced inthe
situation in which he would have been had he never parted
with-the note. If he puts it into circulation on his own account, new relations may be created between himself and
hid immediate indorsee, which may be affected by circumstances'. In the case under consideration, the note took the
.direction intended by all the parties. 'It was indorsed by Magruder for the purpose of enabling Turner to discount it at
the bank. To insure this-object, Turner applied to M'Donaid, who placed his name also on the paper. No intercourse took place between the indorsers. No contract
:express or implied existed between them other than is created
by -their respective liabilities, produced by the act of inThe first indorser
dorsement. Wfhat- are these liabilities 1."
gave his name to the maker of the note for the purpose of
using it in order to raise the money mentioned on its face.
He made himself responsible for the Whole sum upofi the
sole credit of the maker. His undertaking is undivided.
He does not understand that- any person is to share this. responsibility with him.
.But either the bank is unwilling to discount the note on
the credit of. the maker and his single indorser, or the
maker supposes his object will be insured. by the additional
credit given by another name.- He presents the note therefore"
to M'Donald, and-asks his name. also. M'Donald accedes to
his request, and puts his name on the instrument. If the
maker passes the notr for value, the liability of M'Donald
to the holder. is the same as if that value had been receiveil

SUPREiE COURT.
I'M'Donald vs. Magruder.]

by M'Donald himself. Why is this 4 No consideration is
received by M'Donald, and this fact is known to the holder
and'discounter of the note. But a consideratidn is paid by
the holder to the maker, and paid on. the credit of M'Donaid's name. He cannot set up the want of a.consideration
received by himself; he is not permitied to say that the promise is made without consideration;. because money paid by
the promissee to another, is as valid a consideration as if paid
to the promissor himself..
-In what does the claim df the second 6n the first indorser
differ from. that of the holder on .the second. indorser "
Neither has paid value to his immediate indbrser ; but the
holder has paid value to the maker on tile -credit of all the
names to the instrument. The sedond indorser, if he takes
up the note, has paid value to the holder in virtue of the.
liability created by his indorsement.' If this liability wag
founded equally on the credit of, the maker and of the first
indorser, if his uridertaking on the credit of . oth subjects.
him to the loss consequent on the payment of the note; how.
can the contract' between him and his immediate indorserhe
said to be withoutconsideration .
If it be tr.ue, as we think it is, that Magruder, when he indorsed the note, and iituzned it to the maker to be discounted, made himself respon.sible for its amount ohl the failur'e'of
the maker, if this responsibility ivas then complete,how can
it be diminishgd by the circumstance that M'Donald became
a subsequent indorser?- How can the-legal liability of a first
indorser to the 'second, wh6 has'been-compelled.to.take up
ihe note, be changed otherwise than by an express or implied
contractbetween the parties9.
Thins question has arisen' and been decided in the courts of
several states. Wood vs. Repold, 13 H-arris & Johns. 1.5,
was a bill drawn by A. Brown, Jun. at Baltimore, on Messrs
Goold and Son'of New York, in favour ofG. Wood & Co.,
and 'indorsed by.AG. Wood & Co. and afterwards by Repold,
the plaintiff. The bill was drawn and indorsed for the per.!
pose of raising money for the draw-er, and'was..discounted at
*the bank-of Baltimore. On being'protested for non-payment,
* it was takeni up byRepold, and this sdit brought against the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
LAM'Donald vs.'Magruder.]

first indorser. Payment was-resisted because the'indorsement
was, without consideration, for the, accommodation of the
drawer; but th6 court sustained the action. The same question arose in Brown vs. Mott, 7 Johns. 361, on a promissory,
note, and was decided in the same manner. In that 6ase the
court said, that if he had taken it up'at a. reduced price, it
would seem that he'could only recover the amount paid.
Undoubtedly, if M'Donald had been compelled to pay a
moiety of this note, he could have recovered only that moiety
from Magruder.
The case of Douglass vs. Waddle, I Hammond, 413, was
deltexmined differently. This case was undoubtedly decided
on general principles; but the custom' of the country and a
statute of the state are referred to by the court as-entitled to,
considerablq influence. The weight'of aiuthority' as well as
.of usage is, we think .n favour of the Jiability of the first
indorser.
The claim of'Magruder has also beWainmlatained on the
principle that they' are co-sureties,.,an4 that he who has
paid the whole note may demadd.-contribution from the
other.The principle is unquestionably sound if the case' can be
brought within it. Co-sureties are bound to contribute
equally to the debt they have jointly undertaken to pay ;
but the undertaking must be 'joint, not separate and successive. Magruder and'M'Donald might have become joint
indorsers. Their promise might have been a joint promise.
In that event each would have -beeh liable to the other for a
moiety. But their promise is not joint. They have indorsed,
separately and sudcessively, in the usual inode. No contract, no communication, has taken place between them
which might vary the legal.liabilities these indorsements are
known to create. Those legal lidbilities therefore remain
in full force.
Upon'this question of contribution, the counsel for the defendants in err'or rely on two cases, reported -in
'2 Bos."&'
P'ull. 268 and 270. The first, Cowell vs.-Edward§,'was'a suit
by one surety on a bond against his co-surety for contribu-

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Donald vs. Magruder.)

tion. It was intinrrted by the court that each surety was
liable for his aliquot part, but not liable at law to any contribution on account of the insolvency of some of the sureties.
The party who had paid more than his just proportion of the
debt could obtain relief in equity only.
The second case, Sir Edward Deering vs. The Earl of
Winchelsea, Sir John Rous, and the Attorney General, was a
suit in chancery, in the exchequer. Thomas Deering had
been appointed receiver of fines, &c. and had given three
bonds conditioned for faithful accounting, &c. In one of
-these the plaintiff was surety, .in another lord Winchelsea,
and in the third, sir John Rous. Judgment was obtained
on the bond in which the plaintiff was surety, and this suit
was brought against the sureties to the -two other bonds
for, contribution. It was resisted on the ground that there
was no contract between the parties, they having entered
-into special obligations. The lord chief baron was disposed to consider the right to contribution as founded
rather on the equity of the parties than on contract, and
the court-decreed contribution.
In this case the parties were equally bound, were equally
sureties for the same purpose, and were equally liable for
the same debt. Neither had any claim upon the other supeSrior to what that other had on him. The parties stood in
the same relation, not only to the crown, to whom they were
all responsible, and to the person for whom they were sureties i but to each'other. Under these circumstances contribution may well be decreed ex equali jure. But, in the
case at bar, the parties do not stand in the same relation
to~each -other. The second indorser gives his name on
the faith of the first indorser as well as of the maker.' The
first indorser gives his name on the faith of the maker
only. Unquestionably these liabilities. may be changed
by contract ; but no contract existing between these parties, it is not a case to which the principle of contribution
applies.
No notice has been taken of the form of the action. It
is admitted that Magruder, having, paid the whole note,

JANUARY TERM 1830.

479

[M'Donald vs. Mgruder.]

may recoVer a moiety from M'Donald, if their undertaking
is to be considered as joit ; if he, as first indorser, is not
responsible to M'Donald for any part of it which M'Donald
may have paid.
The judgment is to be reversed, and the cause remanded,
with directions to set aside, the verdict, and enter judgment
as on a nonsuit.

