106

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

ent system from that which prevails here. When ,we
contemplate such a system from the outside it seems like
a wall of stone, every part even with abl the others, except
so far as our own local education may lead us to see
subordinations to which we are accustomed. But to one
brought up within it, varying emphasis, tacit assumptions,
unwritten practices, a thousand influences gained only
from life, may give to the different, parts wholly new
values that logic and grammar never could have got from
the books. In this case a slight difference in the caution
felt in dealing with the interest of minors (Baerga v.
Registrar of Humacao, 29 P. R. 440, 442,) and a slight
change of emphasis in the reading of statutes, explain the
divergence between the Supreme Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals. Our appellate jurisdiction is not given
for the purpose of remodelling the Spanish American law
according to common law conceptions except so far as that
law has to bend to the expressed will of the United States.
The importance that we attribute to these considerations
led to our granting the writ of certiorari and requires us
to reverse the judgment below.
Judgment of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. Judgment of Supreme Court of Porto Rico affirmed.
UNITED

STATES

GRAIN CORPORATION
PHILLIPS.

v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 290. Argued January 23, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
.1. The right of a naval officer to a percentage on gold received .on
board and carried as freight, upon his responsibility (Rev. Stats.,
§§ i624, 1547; Navy Regulations [1913] Art. 1510) did not attach to gold held andshipped by the'United States Grain Corporation, as an agency of the United'State; and the obligation to

U. S. GRAIN CORP. v. PHILLIPS.
106

Argument for Plaintiff. in Error.

carry which, upon the same terms as property of the United States,
was recognized by the Secretary of the Navy. P. 113.
2. It was immaterial in such case, that the legal title to the gold was
in the Grain -Corporation and that the corporation, in other relations, might be treated as a distinct personality whose property
was subject to execution. P. 113.
279 Fed. 244M, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals

for the plaintiff, entered upon motion of the defendant

(the present plaintiff in error) after that court had reversed a judgment directed for the defendant by the District Court, in an action to recover compensation for

transporting gold.
Mr. GarrardGlenn, withwhom Mr. William B. Walsh
and Mr. DeWitt C. Jones, Jr., were on the briefs, for
plaintiff in error.
The case is appealable to this Court.
Apart from the statute and regulations upon which
plaintiff relies, it is clear that he must show a contract,
express or implied in fact, between himself and the defendant, binding the latter to pay freight for the transportation of gold on a vessel which the plaintiff did not
own.
There was no express contract to pay for the carriage
of the gold.
No contract can be implied from the regulation, because
it had been duly suspended. But even if the regulation
had not been suspended, still there can.be no implication
of a contract, because, (a) the plaintiff was under orders
to carry the gold, and (b) the circumstances negatived
any intention of the defendant to contract or to express
any desire to do so.
Neither the statute nor the regulation inherently binds
the defendant; they are disciplinary in their nature and
apply only to persons who are members of the naval
forces.

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

261 U. S.

The statute and regulation ire permissive merely; they
allow the officer to make a contract, but do not create one
for him. They were not intended to give the plaintiff
even permission to make a charge to a cordinate agency
of the Government like the defendant.
Even if the regulation were mandatory and applicable
to the defendant, it could not operate because it had been
duly suspended.
Mr. Harold N. Whitehouse, with whom Mr. Edward S.
Hatch and Mr. Maurice W. Clarke were on the brief, for
defendant in error.
The right of a commanding officer to receive compensation from the person who places gold on board his ship
for freight is provided for by law.
The Secretary of the Navy is without power to suspend
the provisions of Art. 1510, Navy Regulations, or to issue
an order inconsistent with the provisions of § 1624, Rev.
Stats.
The Secretary's order purporting to suspend the provisions of Art. 1510 was not intended to and did not apply
to plaintiff in error or its gold.
The gold in question was not taken on board the
"Laub" and transported to New York pursuant to an
order issued by the Secretary.
The Secretary's order made the suspension of Art. 1510
depend upon certain conditions precedent, which were
not complied with:
Neither the conditions imposed by the order, nor the
rights provided by § 1624, Rev. Stats., and Art. 1510, were
waived by the commanding officer.
The order of the Secretary purporting to suspend the
provisions of Art. 1510, not having been approved by the
President, was invalid.
The transaction between the United States Grain Corporation and the Government of Bulgaria was private,
not governmental.

U. S. GRAIN CORP.
106
MR. JUSTICE

PHILLIPS.

Opinion of the'Court.

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a suit to recover fifty-two thousand dollars,
being one per centum of the value of gold carried from
Constantinople to New York upon the steamship Ladb,
a destroyer in the Navy, of which the plaihtiff, the defendant in error, was commanding officer at the time. There
was a trial in the District Court in which, after the evidence was in, both sides moved for the direction of a
verdict and the Court directed a verdict for the defendant.
The judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 279 Fed. 244, and the facts not being in dispute,
judgment was ordered for the plaintiff on motion of the
defendant in order to secure an earlier review here.
By Rev. Stats., § 1624, establishing Articles for the
Government of the Navy, in Article 8 (13) the receiving
on board of gold, silver, or jewels, and the demand of
compensation for carrying them are excepted from the
general prohibition there contained. Article 1510 of the
Navy Regulations (1913)' provides that when gold, &c.,
shall be placed on board any ship for freight or safe keeping the commanding officer shall sign bills of lading for
the amount and be responsible for the same; that the
usual percentage shall be demanded from the shippers,
one-fourth of which goes to the commander in chief if
he signifies to the commander of the ship in writing that
he unites with "thelatter in the responsibility for the care
of the treasure. In that case the commander of the
ship gets bne-half, otherwise two-thirds. By Rev. Stats.,
§ 1547, thbaRegulations adopted with the approval of the
President, as the foregoing was, shall be recognized as
the Regulations of the Navy, " subject to alterations
adopted in the same manner." The plaintiff founds his
claim upon these laws and ruled. Naturally, therefore,
he does not question the defendant's fight to bring the
case to this Court. Act of Match 3, 1911, c. 231 (Judicia

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

Code), §§ 241, 128. Spiller v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa
Fe Ry. Co., 253 U. S. 117, 121. Howard v. United States,
184 U. S. 676, 681.
The defendant, although in form a trading corporation
organized under the laws of Delaware, was formed in pursuance of an Executive Order dated August 14, 1917, as
an- agency to enable the United States Food Administration to buy, store and sell wheat, among other things.
The stock, except the shares necissary to qualify seven
directors, was all subscribed for and owned by the United
States. Even the directors' shares were held by the
United States, endorsed in blank. The stock ultimately
was $500,000,000. By an Executive Order of June 21,
1918, the defendant was designated, an agency of the
United States under the control of the United States Food
Administrator, Mr. Hoover, to buy, hold and sell wheat.
These orders were issued under the war powers conferred
upon the President by the Act of August 10, 1917, c. 53,
40 Stat. 276. A later Act of February 25, 1919, c. 38, 40
Stat. 1161, made a large appropriation to furnish foodstuffs for the relief of populations outside of Germany,
German-Austria, Hungary, Bulgaria, and Turkey, &c.
This was carried out by an Executive Order of March 1,
to the effect that the furnishing should be conducted
under the direction of Mr. Hoover, who was authorized
to establish the American Relief Administration to that
end, and particularly to employ the Food Administration
Grain Corporation as an agency for transporting and distributing foodstuffs and supplies to the populations requiring relief. Finally, an Act of March 4, 1919, c. 125,
40 Stat. 1348, to protect the United States against undue
enhancement of its liabilities under its guaranties of the
prices of wheat, &c., authorized the President to ma.ke
necessary orders and to utilize any department or agency
of the Government including the Food Administration
GrAin Corporation. Pursuing this act, on May 14, 1919,

U. S. GRAIN CORP. v. PHILLIPS.
106

Opinion of the Court.

the President authorized the defendant to buy and sell
wheat of the crops of 1918 and 1919, and reciting that the
defendant was formed as an agency of the United States
and that its functions would be substantially complete on
June 30, 1919, ordered it to close its books and make a
complete report as of that date, change its name to that
which it now bears, and to perform such duties thereafter
as the President might direct.
We mention these details to show that the defendant
although in form a private corporation and liable to be
sued as such, was organized and owned by the United
States as an -agency for public service, was not engaged
in ordinary merchandizing, but under Mr. Hoover's directions wai performing public functions arising out of the
war and its sequels. The Western Maid, 257 U. S. 419,
432; This being its relation to the Government it made a
contract with Bulgaria for the sale of wheat under which
Bulgaria forwarded the gold in question by a naval vessel
of the United States to Constantinople for the defendant.
On August 8, 1919, Admiral Knapp, the ranking naval
officer of the United States in South European waters,
cabled to the Secietary of the Navy that the -Relief Administration desired to ship about five millions gold to the
'United States, and-was willing to release the captain from
all responsibility except that usually incumbent for care
of public property. He asked if the Department would
suspend the mandatory provisions of Article 1510 Navy
Regulations including percentage charge,. and direct that
shipment be received for transportation as desired. On
August 16 the Secretary answered that the Department
suspends the above mentioned provisions with release for
commanding officer and the United States, as offered." On
September 10, 1919, the plaintiff was ordered by Captain
Greenslade, his senior, in rank, to take the gold in question
on board from the United States Ship Galveston where
it then was, and totransport it to New York. At the

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

same time he was informed of the Secretary's cable. On
the 15th the plaintiff took the gold on board the Laub.
On the same day, Major Galbraith purporting to act
under authority of Mr. Hoover offered the plaintiff a
release in the above terms with a copy of the Secretary's
cable. The plaintiff handed back a written reply addressed to Major Galbraith, "Officer in Charge, U. S.
Food Administration, Constantinople," saying that he
could not accept the release and that he took full responsibility for the gold. On the same day the plaintiff received from. Admiral Bristol, in command in Turkish
waters, an order purporting to direct the plaintiff to proceed to New York and to authorize him to receive the
gold, stated to be the "property of the United States
Food Administration (Grain Corporation)." The order
added that in accordance with Article 1510, Navy Regulations, the Admiral assumed joint responsibility with the
Commanding Officer, but called attention to the cable
from the Secretary which was attached.
On the facts thus abridged the plaintiff argues that it
is entitled to judgment as matter of law. Some preliminary. objections may be dispatched in few words. It is
said that the Secretary's order did not apply to this gold,
because the request to him spoke of the Relief Association
as wishing to ship; that the Relief Association had no
power to sell to Bulgaria, that country being excepted in
the Act of February 25, 1919, which we have mentioned;
that the 'release by Mr. Hoover, United States Food
Administrator, was inadequate, and that the authority of
Major Galbraith did not appear. We agree with the
District Judge that the authority of Major Galbraith was
fully established. Whether the sale to Bulgaria was
ultra vires or not the gold belonged to the defendant as
fully as any other money received by it, and the relations
between the defendant and the Relief Association were
such that it did not matter whether the one or the other

U. S. GRAIN CORP. v. PHILLIPS.
106

Opinion of the Court.

was named to the Secretary of the Navy. But these
questions are immaterial in our view and we deem it
apparent that the plaintiff's refusal had no reference
to any of them, but was intended and purported politely
to repudiate the Secretary's authority no'matter how
acc.urately given. We gather that the Admiral and the
Captain meant to try a fall with the Secretary, on the
supposed authority of the law.
The plaifitiff's position at the time probably was the
same that he takes now and that prevailed with the Circuit Court of Appeals. He took the order of the Secretary according to its face as an attempt to suspend the
Regulation and thought that it was invalid without the
actual approval of' the President. It is suggested also
that it was an unauthorized diminution of the plaintiff's
compefisation as established by the law. United States
v. Symonds, 120 U.'S. 46. But in our opinion the view
taken by the District Judge was more accurate. The
plaintiff did not stand as a private person making a private contract with a business corporation. He was an
officer of the United States charged with duties as such.
In substance the gold was the property of the United
States. It is true that the legal title was in the Corporation, that the property of the Corporation might havebeen taken to pay 'a judgment against it, and that in other
ways the difference of personality would be recognized.
Sloan Shipyards Corporation v. United States Shipping
Board Emergency Fleet Corporation,258 U. S.549. But
for purposes like the present imponderables have weight.
When as here the question is whether the property was
clothed with such a public interest that the transportation
of it no more could be charged for by a public officer than
the carrying of a gun, we must look not at the legal title
only. but at the facts beneath forms. The facts we have
indicated in stating the case. The very existence of the

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

Corporation was created to carry on activities required by
the war. Its property was held for that Iand no other
end. It was admitted at the argument, and of course
could not be denied, that if the United States had been
the legal owner of the gold the plaintiff would have been
acting only in the course of his duty in carrying it. We
are of opinion that the same thing is true here. The
order of the Secretary embodied no suspension of the
Regulation but only a recognition of the fact that this
was not a service for which the plaintiff was entitled to
charge. His. acceptance of the characterization of his
act by the cable that he answered did not change the legal
effect. It simply accepted a wrong reason for a right
result. Judgment reversed.
Judgment of the District Court affirmed.
ROOKER ET AL. v. FIDELITY TRUST COMPANY
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.

No. 285. Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted January 25, 1923.Decided February 19, 1923.

1. An objection that a state statute violates the Federal Constitution, not presented to the state trial court, nor to the State
Supreme Court except by a petition for rehearing which was
denied without opinion, will not support a writ of error from this
court. P. 116.
2. The claim that a decision of a State Supreme Court, by construing
an agreement otherwise than it had construed it upon. a former,
interlocutory appeal in the same case, impaired the obligation of
the agreement and violated rights under the Fourteenth Amendment, will not sustain a writ of error under Jud. Code, § 237, as
amended by the Act of 1916. P. 117.
Writ of error to review 131 N. E. 769, dismissed.

