OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

UNITED STATES SHIPPING BOARD EMERGENCY
FLEET CORPORATION v. SULLIVAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Nos. 93 and 124. Argued January 4, 1923.-Decided February 19,
1923.
1. In a proceeding by an injured employee of the United States
Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation for compensation
under a state compensation law, a defense that he was, in effect,
an employee of the United States to be compensated under a
federal act, is a claim of a right or immunity under the Constitution and laws of the United States, and, under Jud. Code, ยง 237,
as amended, 1916, is not a basis for review in this Court by writ
of error. P. 148. "
2. Hdd that the record in this case does not warrant review by
certiorari. P. 149.
Writ of error to review 76 Pa. Super. Ct. 30, dismissed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Superior Court of Pennsylvania affirming an award under the state workmen's
compensation act. Certiorari also was applied for and
denied.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr, Abram F.
Myers, Special Assistant to the Attorney Gefieral, was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Samuel Scoville, Jr., for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Claiming to have.been injured (October, 1918) while
employed by the United States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation as a motor truck driver, defendant. in error Sullivan presented a claim for compensation
to the Workmen's Compensation Bureau, Pennsylvania

EMERGENCY FLEET CORP. v. SULLIVAN. 147
146

Opinion of the Court.

Department of Labor and Industry. The corporation
answered; denied that the injury was of a permanent
nature, and asserted that it -was not liable for the further reason "that claimant was a direct employee of the
United States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation, and accordingly is a civil.employee of the United
States of America, and will be compensated for injury
under the Federal workmen's compensation act, subject
to sustaining proof of disability."
The referee found that while employed by the Fleet
Corporation as a chauffeur Sullivan suffered injuries from
a collision in Philadelphii; that neither party had served
notice rejecting Article III of the Compensation Act
[June 2, 1915, P. L. 736] ; and awarded compensation.
The Bureau heard the matter de novo, and affirmed the
referee's findings of fact and conclusions of law and dismissed the appeal. It said"In the case at bar there is no evidence that claimant
was'a civil employee of the United States or that he
received his wages through the United States Treasury.
We cannot infer that such was the case. . .. While it
might be difficult to draw the exact line of demarcation
as to when- the defendant is acting as a private corporation or is acting for the United States, the burden would
be on the defendant to prove if it were acting for the
United States that it, would be exempt-there is no defense of this kind interposed in this case; We. only have
the question of law raised by defendant that the Pennsylvan a Workmnert's Compensation Board has no jurisdiction. We cannot agree-with this., In conclusion we
hold: That we have jurisdiction, on the ground that the
defendant doing business as a corporation in the State of
Pennsylvania, an employer of labor in the State of Pennsylvania, is liable for compensation to the claimant- in
this case under our act. It is neither our duty nor privi-

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

lege to make a collateral investigation as to the ownership
of the defendant's capital stock."
Successive appeals, limited by statute to matters of law,
were dismissed by the Court of Common Pleas and the
Superior Court of Pennsylvania. 76 Pa. Super. Ct. 30.
The latter court-the highest where decision in the proceeding could be had-said"In the present case, the Workmen's Compensation.
Board and the court are bound to take judicial notice of
acts of Congress and executive orders and regulations
authorized by acts of Congress which have the force of
statutes: Caha v. United States, 152 U. S. 211; as well
as general acts of assembly affecting the defendant. Anything else must be averred and proved ashby any other
litigant . ..
"On its face we have here a claim for workmen's compensation presented against a corporation of the District
of Columbia, doing business in this State, engaged in performing certain important matters committed to it by the
Shipping Board relative to the purchase, construction,
equipment, etc., of merchant vessels in the commerce of
the United States, and answer made that it is not liable
because the injured man was a civil employee of the
United States. No evidence was presented to support
this answer. . . . As the case was presented before the
referee and the board, we are satisfied that the award was
fully justified, and it is accordingly confirmed and the appeal dismissed atthe costs of the appellant."
The writ of error (No. 124) must be dismissed. The
record fails affirmatively to disclose that there was drawn
in question. the validity 6f a treaty or statute of, or .an
authority exercised under the United States, or the validity of a statute of or an authority exercised under any
State, on the ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties or laws of the United States within the
requirements of ยง 237 of the Judicial Code, as amended

PUBLIC SERVICE CO. v. DURHAM.
146

Syllabus.

by the Act of September 6, 1916.' Considering the whole
record it is clear that there was no controversy over the
validity of any treaty, statute or authority, federal or
state. Plaintiff in error by its answer claimed a right or
immunity under the Constitution and laws of the United
States. The state tribunals held that there was no evidence to establish the facts necessary to show that it was
within the class to which exemption might extend.Champion Lumber Co.v. Fisher,227 U. S. 445,451, 452;
St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. McWhirter, 229 U. S.265, 276; Straus v. American Publishers"Association,231 U. S.222, 233.
Considering the character of the record, we think it-unwise to bring up the cause by certiorari with a view to
considering the quiestions said to be involved. The petition therefor (No. 93) is accordingly denied.
Writ of error dismissed.
Petition for certioraridenied.

DURHAM PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY v. CITY
OF DURHAM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 251. Argued January 19, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. A contract between a city and a street railway company should
not be allowed to exempt the latter from future liability for paving
the portions of streets occupied by its tracks unless such exemption
be plainly expressed. P. 151.
2 "Sec. 237. A final'judgment or decree in any suit in the highest
court of a State in which a decision in the suit could be had, where is
drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an.au-

thority exercised under the United States, and the decision is against
their validity; or where is drawn in question the validity of a statute

