HALLANAN v. EUREKA PIPE LINE CO. 393
387

Syllabus.

docket. If it be suggested that as much effort and time
as we have given to the consideration of the alleged con-

flict would have enabled us to dispose of the case before
us on the merits, the answer is that it is very important
that we be consistent in not granting the writ of certiorari
except in cases involving principles the - settlement of
which is of importance to the public as distinguished
from that of the parties, and in ca§es where there is a
real and embarrassing conflict of opinion and authority
between the circuit courts of appeal. The present case
certainly comes under neither head.
Precedents for dismissing a writ of certiorari improvidently granted are found in 'Furness, Withy & Co. v.
Yang-Tsze Insurance Association, 242 U. S. 430, and in
United States v. Rimer, 220 U. S: 547.
Writ of certioraridismissed.
HALLANAN, STATE TAX-COMMISSIONER, ET AL.
v. EUREKA PIPE LINE COMPANY.
ON PETITION FOR A WRIT OF CERTIORARI AND IN ERROR TO
THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE "OFWEST
VIRGINIA.

Nos. 569 and 885. Motion to dismiss or affirm, etc., subnitted March
12, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.
A mandate from this Court reversing a judgment of a state court
sustaining a tax here found to have been imposed partly on interstate commerce, leaves the state court free to determine the purely
state question whether the statute under which the tax was imposed
is separable so that the tax may be sustained in that part which
affects only intrastate commerce. P. 397.
Petition for certiorari (No. 569) denied.
Writ of error (No. 885) dismissed.

WRIT of error and petition for certiorari to review a
jidgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Vir-

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

ginia, entered after the reversal of the same case by this
Court in Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan,257 U. S. 265.
Mr. Edward T. England, Attorney General of the State'
of West Virginia, Mr. S. B. Avis, Mr. Fred 0. Blue and
Mr. Win. Gordon Mathews for petitioners and plaintiffs
in error.
Mr. Frank L. Crawford and Mr. James M. Beck for
respondent and defendant in error.
MR. CHmF JusTIciE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an effort by writ of error, and if that is inappropriate for the purpose, by an application for a writ of
certiorari, to review the action of the Supreme Court of
Appeals of West Virginia in the judgment which it entered in avowed and attempted compliance with the judgment of this Court in the case on writ of error sub nomine
Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan,257 U. S. 265. It is
contended by the state authorities seeking review here
that the Supreme Court of Appeals did not enter the
judgment required by our mandate and that we should in
some appropriate way direct that court specifically what
judgment it should enter.
A summary of the litigation must needs be made in
order that the controversy may be understood and
decided.
The Pipe Line Company filed a bill against the State
Tax Commissioner and other state authorities to enjoin
them from enforcing a statute of the State which forbade
anyone to engage in the business of transporting petroleum in pipe lines without the payment of a tax of two
cents for each barrel of oil transported. The Pipe Line
Company owned a system of pipe lines by which it transpdrted 22 millions of barrels in the year ending June 30,

HALLANAN v. EUREKA PIPE LINE CO. 395
393

Opinion of the Court.

1919. Of this, it was admitted that 1,239,000 barrels had
their origin in West Virginia, and their destination there,
and that the privilege of transporting that amount might
be taxed; but it was insisted that the remainder was a
stream of interstate commerce, the privilege of conducting
which could not be taxed under the commerce clause of
the Federal Constitution. The Circuit Court in which the
bill was filed and the causes heard held that the remainder
was interstate commerce and no privilege tax could be
imposed on a pipe line company engaging in it. It conceded that it would be competent for the Legislature to
collect a privilege tax for the purely intrastate transportation of the 1,239,000 barrels already mentioned, but it
inquired whether the State had done this by the act in
question, and said:
"If it can be contended that the tax affects this particular oil it is only incidental to the like tax imposed
upon the whole body of oil transported. It is plain the
legislature did not mean to distinguish as between the two
classes of oil, for the act makes no attempt at a division.
We are not able to say from an inspection of the act
whether or not the legislature would have imposed the tax
upon the privilege of handling this intra-state oil alone,
had it been exempting the balance of the oil when framing the law, as we think it should have done. Whether it
would have made the tax applicable to the West Virginia
oil alone, no one can say; and this we understand to be
the test of whether or not the act is divisible. Eckhart v.
State, 5 W. Va. 515; Robertson v. Preston, 97 Va. 2 961
Trimble v. Comm., 96 Va. 888."
Accordingly the Circuit Court held the whole act bad
and granted an injunction against enforcing it against the
Pipe Line "in any respect."
On appeal the Supreme Court of Appeals held that the
act was to be construed as applying to pipe lines only so
far as they were engaged in intrastate commerce, and that

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

it did not apply to transport of oil in interstate commerce. It held, however, that oil oiginating in West Virginia, a large part of which was ultimately carried out of
the State but the destination of which was undetermined
because its owners might withdraw it from the line at any
point within the State, was intrastate commerce and was
a proper basis for the privilege tax under the law. Accordingly, in so far as the decree of the Circuit Court
enjoined collection of a privilege" tax nieasured by intrastate commerce in oil as thus determined, it was reversed.
In this Court it was held that oil produced in West Virginia and constituting in fact a stream of oil flowing out
of the State was interstate commerce even though those
who delivered the oil to the company for transportation
might have diverted it from the interstate commerce
stream, and though in comparatively small quantities
some oil was thus diverted.
Accordingly the decree of the Supreme Court of Appeals was reversed, and the cause was remanded to that
court for further proceedings not inconsistent with the
opinion of this Court. That court then entered the following decree entitled in the cause:
"Upon an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court'of
Kanawha County pronounced on the 8th day of September, 1920.
"The Court, having maturely considered the mandate
of the Supreme Court of the United States filed and entered of record in this cause and the record of the decree
aforesaid, is of opinion that there is no error in said
decree. It is therefore adjudged, ordered and decreed
that the decree of the Circuit Court of Kanawha County,
pronounced in this cause on the 8th day of September,
1920, be and the same hereby is affirmed."
It is now objected by the representatives of the State
that this action of the Supreme Court of Appeals was not
in'accord with. the mandate because it was mconsistent

HALLANAN v. EUREKA PIPE LINE CO. 397
393

Opinion.of the Court.

with the opinion of this Court. In the course of that
opinion in stating the facts, it was said (257 U. S. 270):
"But all the oil of the same grade was mixed, regardless
of source, and of the Pennsylvania grade only 1,239,099.55
barrels were used in West Virginia. It is admitted that
the tax may be levied in respect of the last item, but the
question before us is whether the tax can be laid upon the
-whole product of the State upon which was imposed the
gathering charge."
It is said that this language imposed the duty upon the
Supreme Court of Appeals of so shaping its decree under
our mandate as to enable the State to collect a privilege
tax from the Pipe Line Company upon the number of
barrels above mentioned. We can not agree with this.
The statement quoted from the opinion was part of a
review of the facts and a classification of the oil according
to its interstate and intrastate character. Both the West
Viiginia courts and the counsel for both parties agreed
that this amount of oil was intrastate commerce and subject to such a privilege tax. But the language quoted
was not used to indicate the form of the decree to be entered below. This Court gave no consideration to the
question whether the invalidity of part of -the tax 'rendered the whole law void because indivisible, as the Circlit Court had held-it to be. That was peculiarly a state
question- and when we reversed the case for the reason
that oil in transport which the Supreme Court of Appeals
held to be intrastate and so taxable was interstate and
immune, and remanded the case for further proceedings,
it was entirely within the power and duty of that"court
to decide what under the state law would be the effect of
the invalidity'of part of the tax levied by the law as adjudged by this Court upon the validity of the whole tax
law. The Supreme Court of Appeals evidently reached
the conclusion that the Circiit Court had been right in
&didingthat if so much of the tax,wa invalid, it could

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

not infer that the Legislature would have enacted thl law
at all. Aocordingly it affirmed the decree of that court
as it had full power to do.
The applicationfor the writ of certiorariis denied and
the writ of erroris dismissed.

HALLANAN, STATE TAX COMMISSIONER, ET AL.
v. UNITED FUEL GAS COMPANY. .
ON

PETITION FOR A WRIT OF CERTIORARI AND IN ERROR TO
THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF WEST

VIRGINIA.

Nos. 570 and 886. Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted March
12, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.
Decided on the authority of Hallananv. Eureka Pipe Line Co., ante,
393.
Petition for certiorari (No. 570) denied.
Writ of error (No. 886) dismissed.
WRIT of error and petition for certiorari to review a
judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia;, entered after the reversal of the same case by this
Court in United Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan,257 U. S. 277.

Mr. Edward T, England,Attorney General of the State
of West Virginia, Mr. S. B. 'Avis, Mr. Fred 0. Blue and
Mr.. Win. Gordon .Mathews for petitioners and plaintiffs
in error.
Mr. Malcolm Jackson and Mr. R. G. Altizer for- respondent and defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE

TAF delivered the, opinion of the

Court.
This is a case like that of Hallanan v. Eureka Pipe
Jine Co.. just decided, ante, 393, involving the question

