216

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

BROWNLOW ET AL., COMMISSIONERS OF THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, ET AL. v. SCHWARTZ.
1RROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 95. Argued January 16, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
Before allowance of a writ of error to review a judgment directing
issue of a writ of mandamus to compel the granting -of a building
permit, the permit was issued, the building erected and the
property transferred to persons not parties to the cause. Held,
that, irrespective, of the motive for granting the permit,* the
cause was moot, and, for that reason, the judgment below should
be reversed, with directions for dismissal of the petition for
mandamus, without costs. P. 217.
50 App. D. C. 279; 270 Fed. 1019, reversed.

to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia reversing a judgment of the Supreme
Court of the District, which dismissed a petition for the
writ of inandamus, and directing that the writ be issued.
Mr. Robert L. Williams, with whom Mr.F. H. Stephens
ERROR

was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
'Mr. W. Gwynn Gardiner for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The defendant in error, petitioner below, on June 9,
1920, filed a petition in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia, praying for a writ of mandamus against
respondents requiring them to issue to her a permit to
erect a building for business purposes on a lot situated on
a residence street in Washington. Prior to filing the petition she made preparations to erect the building and
applied to the Building Inspector for a permit, which he

BROWNLOW v. SCHWARTZ.
216

217

Opinion of the Court.

declined to issue, upon grounds not necessary to be stated
here.
The plaintiffs in error, respondents below, filed an answer to the petition aid return to the rule to show cause;
and to the answer a demurrer was interposed. On July 6,
1920, the demurrer was overruled, the rule to show cause
discharged, and petition dismissed. Upon appeal to the
Court of Appeals this judgmentwas, on February 7, 1921,
reversed and the cause remanded with directions to issue
the writ as prayed. On March 19, 1921, an application
for a rehearing was overruled and on June 13th following,
.
'this writ of error was allowed.
On March 14th, after the decision of the Court of Appeals but before the allowande of the writ of error, the
permit demanded-by petitioner was issued by the Building Inspector, and thereupon the building was constructed. It had been fully completed when the writ of
error.was allowed. On June 2, 1921, petitioner conveyed"
all her interest in the property to persons'not parties to
this cause.
It thtus appears that there is now no actual controversy.
between the parties---no issue on the merits which this
Court can .properly decide. The case his become moot
for two reasons: (1) because the permit, the issuance of
which constituted the sole relief sought by petitioner, has
been issued and the building to which it related has been
completed, and (2) because, the first reason aside, petitioner no longer has any interest..in the building, and
therefore has no basis for maintaining the action.
This Court will not proceed to a determination when
its judgment would be wholly, ineffectual for want of a
subject matter on which it could operate. An affirmance
would ostensibly require something to be done which had
already taken'place. A reversal would ostensibly avoid
an event which had already passed beyond xecall. One
would be as vain as the other. To adjudicate a cause

OCTOBER TERM, 122.
Opinion of the Court.

261.U. S.

which no longer exists is a proceeding which this Court
uniformly has declined to enteStain./ee Mills v. Green,
159 U. S. 651; Codlin v. Kohlhausen, 181 U. S. 151; Little
v. Bowers, 134 U. S. 547, 556; Singer Manufacturing Co.
v. Wright, 141 U. S. 696, 699; American Book Co. v.
Kansas, 193 U. S. 49; United States v. Hamburg-American Co., 239 U. S.466, 475; Berry v. Davis, 242 U. S. 468,
470; Board of Public Utility Commissioners v. Compaiiia
General de Tabacos de Filipinas,249 U. S. 425; Commercial Cable Co. v. Burleson, 250 U. S. 360; Heitmuller v.
Stokes, 256 .U. S.359.
It is urged that the permit was issued by the Inspector
of Tuildings only because he believed it was incumbent
upon him to comply with the judgment of the Court of
Appeals and avoid even the appearance of disobeying it.
The motive of the officer, so far as this question is concerned, is quite immaterial. We are interested .only in
the indisputable fact that Jis action, however induced,
has left nothing to litigate. American Book Co. v.
Kansas, supra. The case being moot, further proceedings
upon the merits can neither be had here nor in the court
of first instance. To dismiss the writ of error would leave
" the judgment of the Court of Appeals requiring the issuance of the mandamus in force-at least apparently sonotwithstanding the -basis therefor has -disappeared. Our
action must, therefore, dispose of the ease, not merely of
the appellate* proceeding which brought it here. The
practice now established by this Court, under similar conditions and circumstances, is to reverse the judgment
below and remand the case with directions to dismiss the
bill, complaint or petition. United States v. HamburgAmerican Co., supra; Berry v. Davis, supra; Board of
Public. Utility Commissioners I Compaiiia General de
TabacOs &j Filipinas, supra,"Commercial Cable Co. v.
Burleson, sipra;Heitmxller v. Stokes, supra.
Following these pr6cedents, the judgment below should
be reverged, with -directions to the Court of Appeals to

CRAMER v. UNITED STATES.
216

Syllabus.

remand the cause to the Supreme Court with instructions
to dismiss the petition without costs, because the controversy involved has become moot and, therefore, is no
longer a subject appropriate for judicial action.

And it is so ordered.
CRAMER ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM -THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 207. Argued January 15, 16, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. Lands definitely occupied by individual -Indians were excepted
from the Central Pacific grant of July'25, 1866, c. 242, 14 Stat. 239,
as lands "reserved
. .
or otherwise disposed of." P. 226.
2. Such possessory rights, though not recognized by any statute or
other formal governmental action 'of the time, were protected by
the settled policy of the Government towards the Indians. P. 229.
3. The Act of March 3, 1851, which required that claims of rights
in lands in California derived from Spain and Mexico be presented
for settlement within a specified time, and directed the Commission thereby created to inquire into the tenures of certain Indians,
has no application to claims of individual Indians, not of those
classes, and based on an occupancy not shown to have been
initiated when the act was passed. P. 230.
4. The United States, as guardian of individual Indians who have
occupied public land in accordance with its policy, may maintain
a bill to cancel a patent illegally issued to another for the land
so occupied. P. 232.
5. The six year limitation on suits by the United States to annul
land patents is inapplicable when the suit is to protect.the rights
of Indians. P.233.:
6. The acceptance by government agents of leases from a patentee
on behalf of Indian occupants, cannot estop the Government from
maintaining the Indian's independent right to the land occupied
by a suit against the patentee. P. 234.
7. The rights of one who occupies part of a subdivision of public
land without 'laying claim to or exercising dominion over the
remainder, are confined to the part occupied. P. 234.
276 Fed. 78, reversed..

