PUBLIC SERVICE CO. v. DURHAM.
146

Syllabus.

by the Act of September 6, 1916.' Considering the whole
record it is clear that there was no controversy over the
validity of any treaty, statute or authority, federal or
state. Plaintiff in error by its answer claimed a right or
immunity under the Constitution and laws of the United
States. The state tribunals held that there was no evidence to establish the facts necessary to show that it was
within the class to which exemption might extend.Champion Lumber Co.v. Fisher,227 U. S. 445,451, 452;
St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. McWhirter, 229 U. S.265, 276; Straus v. American Publishers"Association,231 U. S.222, 233.
Considering the character of the record, we think it-unwise to bring up the cause by certiorari with a view to
considering the quiestions said to be involved. The petition therefor (No. 93) is accordingly denied.
Writ of error dismissed.
Petition for certioraridenied.

DURHAM PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY v. CITY
OF DURHAM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 251. Argued January 19, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. A contract between a city and a street railway company should
not be allowed to exempt the latter from future liability for paving
the portions of streets occupied by its tracks unless such exemption
be plainly expressed. P. 151.
2 "Sec. 237. A final'judgment or decree in any suit in the highest
court of a State in which a decision in the suit could be had, where is
drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an.au-

thority exercised under the United States, and the decision is against
their validity; or where is drawn in question the validity of a statute

ISO

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

2. An assessment against a stieet railway company for paving between and near its tracks and rails, greater than the amount
assessed, for the rest of the pavement, on abutting lots valued
much higher than the railway property on the street, held not
arbitrary and unreasonable. P. 152.
3. Imposition of special obligations on railway companies in respect
of street paving is consistent with reasonable legislative classifica-

tion. P. 154.
182 N. Car. 333, affirmed.

ERioR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of North

Carolina sustaining an assessment for street paving levied
against the plaintiff in error street railway company.
Certiorari also was applied for and denied.
Mr. James S. Manning, with whom Mr. W. L. Foushee
and Mr. John H. Manning were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. S. C. Chambers, with whom Mr. Jones Fuller and
Mr. R.P.Reade were on the brief, for defendant in error.
"MR. JusTIcE McRE oLDs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
As the cause is properly here upon writ of errorAtlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548,
555; Act September 6, 1916, 39 Stat. 726-we deny the
p6tition for certiorari.
Plaintiff in error, was incorporated by the Legislature of
North Carolina in 1901 and'empowered to operate car
lines in the streets of Durham when so authorized by the
municipal auth6ritie. Shortly thereafter and in pursuance of an agreement they granted the necessary authority. The Supreme Court of North Carolina-182 N. Car.
of, or an authority exercised under any State, on the ground .of their
being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United
States, and- the decision is in favor of their validity, may be reexamined and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court upon a writ of
error. . .

PUBLIC SERVICE CO. v. DURHAM.
149

151

Opinion of the Court.

333-affirmed a judgment of the Superior Court which
sustained an assessment of $102,942.30 made in 1920
against the corporation for the cost of paving that portion
of Main Street occupied by-its tracks. It refused to make
the improvement as required by an ordinance; thereupon
the City caused the work to be done and assessed the cost
against it. The formality pf the proceeding is not questioned.
Recovery is resisted upon two grounds--(1) That the
original contract under which the railway, lines were constructed and operated exempts the corporation from liability to pave the roadbed. Constitution, ยง 10, Art. I.
(2) That the assessment is excessive, unreasonable and
wholly arbitrary and to enforce it would deprive plaintiff
in error of property without due process of law and deny
it the equal protection of the laws contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.
The original contract with the City is dated February
4, 1901, and the claim of exemption rests upon the following clause therein"The said Durham Traction Company [now the Durham Public Service Company] whenever it shall be required so to do, shall cause its roadbed and track to be
brought to surface grade at its own expense and costs, but
nothing herein contained shall be construed to require said
Durham Traction Company to pave its roadbed, but it
shall be required to restore-its roadbed to the conditions
in which it was at the time of laying said track, proided,
however,"that if fhe city decides to put in or change its
sewerage pipes on any of the streets of the said city on
which the tracks of said Durham Traction Company may
be laid, the said city may require the said Traction Company to remove and replace at its own expense, the said
tracks, for said purpose and said city shall incur no liability for any delays or interruptions of the business or
traffic of said Traction Company, caused thereby."
The court below held that while this contract imppses

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

no liability for paving, neither does it grant exemption
therefrom. And we agree with 'their conclusion. Such
exemptions must jlainly appear. The general rule is that
doubts as to provisions in respect of them must be resolved
in favor of the municipality or State. Cleveland Electric
Ry. Co.v. Cleveland, 204 U. S. 116, 130.
Purporting to proceed under "An Act Relating to Locl
Improvements in Mu'nicipalities," ratified by the General
Assembly of North Carolina, February 27, 1915,-c. 56-the governing body of Durham by resolution provided for
improving Main Street and directed plaintiff in error to
pave between and for eighteen inches outside its tracks.
The company refused to comply and the challenged assessment followed. Among other things the Act of 1915 provides"Sec. 4. Every municipality shall have power, by resolution of its governing body, upon petition made as provided in the next succeeding section, to cause local improvements to be made and to defray -the expense of suchimprovements by local asessment, by general taxation,
and by borrowing, as herein provided.
"Sec. 6. .
. If the resolution shall provide for a
street improvement, it shall direct that any street railway
company or other railroad company having tracks on the
street or streets or part thereof to be improved shall make
such street improvement with such material and of such a
character as may be approved by the governing body, in
that part of such street or streets or part thereof which
the governing body may prescribe, not to exceed, however, the space between the tracks, the rails of the tracks,
and eighteen inches in width outside of the tracks of such
company, and that unless such improvement shall be made
on or before a dayspecified in such resolution, the governing body will cause such improvement to be made: Provided;however,that where any such company shall occupy
sich street or streets under a franchise or contract which

PUBLIC SERVICE CO. v. DURHAM.
149

Opinion of the Court.

otherwise provided, such franchise or contract shall not
be affected by this act, except in so far as this act may be
consistent with the provisions of such franchise or contract.
.
By agreement of parties, the cause was tried without a
jury and the court found the facts. Those so found and
presently relied upon to show the arbitrary and unreasonable character of the assessment follow-"That the section of Main Street over which the assessment extends is 2.02 miles in length and including double
tracks there are 2.65 miles of track on Main Street; that
there are 154 abutting property owners upon this portion
of Main Street; that the assessment against said company for paving Main Street is $102,942.30 and against
said 154 property owners is,$89,909.56; that the value of
the property of this defendant on Main Street within the
area which is directly affected by said paving is $100,00.0
and the assessed value of said abutting property is approximately $5,083,250 exclusive of the value of property
on Main Street not taxed.
"That the cost to the Traction Company of furnishing
new rails and new cross ties, of taking up and relaying its
track on Main Street and doing other work preparatory
to the placing of the pavement upon Main Street Was
$75,108.85, which has been paid by the Traction Company and which said outlay and expenditure was made
at the order of the City of Durham; that during the
twelve months ending May 31, 1921, the company's railway showed a loss of $17,388.73 of meeting the operating
expense and allowance for depreciation and if the Com"
pany is required to pay the paving assessment of the
City of Durham as demanded, to wit, one-tenth of said
assessment each year with interest, then there will be an
additional expense of one-tenth "of $102,942.30 plus interest and depreciation on same; that the gross earnings
of said company from all sources for the year ending De-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

cember 31, 1920, were approximately $540,000, -the*net
earnings $147,000, the company having other valuable
property and business not on Main Street, including other
railway not on Main Street."
The court below held the recited facts insufficient to
show that the municipal authorities acted unreasonably or
,rbitrarily, and we are unable to say that this was error.
Counsel concede that the Constitution of North Carolina
reserves to the Legislature power to alter or repeal corporate charters; also that, in general, the Legislature
either directly or through recognized governmental agencies may impose assessments for local improvements and
prescribe the basis of apportionment. But the claim is
that the Legislature undertook arbitrarily to direct plaintiff in error to pave more than one-third of the street,
while the owners of more valuable property fronting
thereon are recjuired to pay out much less and are assessed
upon the front-foot basis.
Gast Realty & Investment Co. v. Schneider GraniteCo.,
240 U. S. 55; Hancock v. City of Musko gee, 250 U. S. 454;

and Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Road Improvement
District, 256 U. S. 658; are cited in support of this insistence; but they do not go so far. The power of the Legislature to make reasonable classifications and to. impose
a different burden upon the several classes cannot be denied. There are obvious reasons for imposing peculiar
obligations upon a railway in respect of streets occupied
by its tracks. The facts and circunistances disclosed by
the present record are not sufficient to justify us in overruling the judgment of the state court, which held that
the assessment was not the result of arbitrary or wholly
unreasonable legislative action. Sioux City Street Ry.
Co. v. Sioux City, 138 U: S. 98, 107, 108; Fair Haven &
Westvlle R. R. Co. v. New Haven, 203 U. S. 379, 388,
389; Southern Wisconsin Ry. Co. v. Madison, 240 U. S.
457, 461; Great Notthern Ry. Co. v. ClaraCity, 246 U. S.

VALLEY FARMS CO. v. WE$TCHESTER. 155
149

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

434, 436, 437; Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Police Couirt,
251 U. S. 22, 25, 26; Milwaukee ElectricRy. Co. v. Milwaukee, 252 U. -S. 100, 104.

Affirmed.

VALLEY FARMS

COMPANY

OF YONKERS* v.

COUNTY OF WESTCHESTER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF N EW YORK.

No. 136.

Argued January 24; 1923.-Decided February, 19; 1923.

1. A state legislature may without notice to property owners establish a sewer district and direct that the cost of the sewer be assessed upon the real proierty within the district in proportion to
its value as ascertained for purposes of general'taxation. P. 162.
2. It is not a valid objection to such an assessment, undir the Fourteenth Amendment, that the property assessed can receive no direct
benefit, where it ultimately may be benefited by future extensions
of the sewer. P. 163.
3. Nor is it of importance from the constitutional standpoint that
the sewer had been completed before the boundaries of the district were established. P. 164.
4. Where the state law gives the property owner an opportunity
to be heard upon the valuation of his 'property for general taxation, he is not entitled under the Amendment to a further hearing
on that subject when such valuations are used as bases for apportioning special assessments. P. 164.
193 App. Div. 433; 231 N. Y. 558, affirmed.

ERRoR! to a judgment of the Supreme Court of New
York, Appellate Division,. entered on mandate of affirmance from the Court of Appeals, and directing 'dismissal of the complaint in an action brought by the
present plaintiff in error to'declare void 'a special tax
assessment and to restrain its collection.
Mr. Robert C. Beatty for plaintiff in,
error.
Plaintiff in error has a constitutional right to notice
and hearing as to the apportionment of the assessments

