POTHIER v. RODMAN.

307

Statement of the Case.

POTHIER v. RODMAN, UNITED STATES MARSHAL, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM AN ORDER OF THE DISTRICT OURT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND, DISMISSING A PETITION FOR WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.

No. -.
Motion for leave to docket Case and proceed in forma
pauperis. Submitted* February 23, '1923.-Decided March 12,
1923.
1. Upon application for leave to proceed in forma pauperis, an -aifidavit of the poverty of the applicant must be made by the applicant himself. P. 309.
2. The application must be denied unless jurisdiction over the appeal
or writ of error to which it relates appears from the motion papers
or record. P. 309.
3. The jurisdiction of this Coiirt to review directly an order of the
District Court dismissing a petition for habeas corpus depends on
"Jud. Code, -§ 238; a question of the jurisdiction of the District
- Court or a constitutional question must be involved. P. 310.
4. The issue of jurisdiction which Jud. Code, § 238, makes cognizable
by this Court :on direct appeal from the District Court, must be
an issue concerning the jurisdiction of the court from which the
appeal is taken. P. 31!.
5. When it is alleged against an indictment for murder committed
in territory within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States,
that such jurisdiction did not exist, the objection goes, not to the
jurisdiction of the District' ourt in whichthe indictment was returned, but to the merits of the case. P. 311.
6. Under the Act of September 14, 1922, c. 305, 42 Stat. 837, an
appeal to this Court, which should have been taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals, must be transferred to that court, in the
proper circuit. P. 312.
Motion denied; cause transferred.

MOTION for leave to proceed informa pauperns on an

appeal from an order of the District' Court dismissing a
petition. for habeas corpus. See 285 Fed. 632.
Mr. Davis G. Arnold for appellant.

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CmrEF JusTIcE

261 U. &

TAFr delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a motion for leave to proceed on this appeal
in forma pauperis. The character of the appeal is set
forth in the motion papers, and upon the facts therein
stated we reach our conclusion.
The Act of July 20, 1892, c. 209, § 1, 27 Stat. 252, as
amended June 27, 1922, c. 246, 42 Stat. 666, provides:
"That any citizen of the United States entitled to commence any suit or action, civil or criminal, in any court
of the- United States, may, upon the order of the court,
commence and prosecute or defend to conclusion any suit
or action, or a writ of error or an appeal to the circuit.
court of appeals, pr .to the Supreme Court in such suit or
action, including all appellate proceedings, unless the trial
court shall certify in writing that in the opinion of the
court such appeal or writ of error is not taken in good
faith, without being required to prepay fees or costs or
for the printing of the record in the appellate court or
give security therefor, before or after bringing suit or
action, or upon suing out a writ of error or appealing, upon
filing hi said court a statement under oath in writing, that
because of his poverty he is unable to pay the costs of
said suit or action or of such writ of error or appeal, or
to give security for the same, and that he believes that he
is entitled to the redress he seeks in such suit or action
or writ of error or appeal, and setting forth briefly the
,nature of his alleged cause -of action, or appeal."
Counsel for appellant files the motion setting out in
brief the facts of the cause and accompanies it with an
affidavit of his own, alleging that he has examined the
case, that he believes the appellant has a just cause for
appeal, that the appellant is without funds, and-because
of his poverty he is unable to pay the costs of the appeal,
that his friends and relatives have already expended large

I
307

POTHIER v. RODMAN.

309
3

Opinion of the Court.

sums in his defense, and that during his continued confinement in jail the American Red Cross has been providing
for his si6kly wife and child. The affidavit further alleges
that the appellant was allowed to prosecute the proceedings before the District Court in forma pauperis.
Under the statute the affidavit as to the poverty of the
applicant is to be made by himself and not by another,
even his counsel. A supporting affidavit may properly be
made by the counsel, but the importance that he who is
seeking the privilege accorded by the statute should be
required to expose himself to the pains of perjury in a case
of bad faith is plain.
Assuming, however, that this defect can be satisfactorily supplied, the motion must be denied, because it does
not appear from.the motion papers or the record that this
Court has jurisdiction of the appeal. There can be no
doubt from a reading of the statute that an application
of this character can not be granted if it appear on its
face that the appeal or writ of error in which the costs -are
to be incurred at public expense does not lie and can not
be considered by the Court. The case made in the motion
is as follows:
On October 19, 1922, the appellant was arrested and
brought before Henry C. Hart, United States Commissioner for the District of Rhode Island, under a warrant
to apprehend him and to remove him pursuant to § 1014
of the Revised. Statutes, from Rhode Island to the Southern Division of the Western District of Washington for
trial under an. indictment for murder ofi Alexander P.
Cronkhite, committed in territory in that District within
the exclusive jurisdiction of the United' States, t6 wit,
the.Camp Lewis Military Reservation. Appellant pleaded
not -guilty and. was committed to the cusiody ofthe
marshal without bail.
The petition for the writ of habeas corpus reciting these
facts was filed in the District Court and ivas-accorpanied

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
-

Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

by a prayer for a writ of certiorari directing -the United
States Commissioner to send up the proceedings.
IThe petition averred that the place in which the indictment alleged the crime to have been committed was within
the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of Washington, and
that the indictment did not, therefore, charge a crime
against the United States, and that the court in which the
indictment was found was without jurisdiction to hear it.
The District Court of Rhode Island found that this
averment did not state a case warranting the discharge of
the accused from custody or a halting of his removal under
the warrant to the place of trial and so made the .order
appealed from.
Appeal from the order lay to the Circuit Court of Appeals of the First Circuit, not to this Court. Final decisions of a District Court are to be reviewed by the propel,
Circuit Courts of Appeals in all cases other than those in
which appeals and writs of error may be taken direct to
the Supreme Court, as provided in §,238 of the Judicial.
Code, unless otherwise provided by law. (§ 128 Judicial
*Code as amended, Act January 28, 1915, c. 22, § 2, -38
Stat. 803.) There is no other provision of law for appeals from an order granting or denying writs of habeas
corpus except when they come within § 238. Horn v.
Mitchell, 243 U. S. 247, 248-9; Chin Fong v. Backus, 241
U 5. 1, 3; Wise v. HenkeI, 220 U. S, 556, 557; In re Len-non, 150.U. S. 393, 399; Cross v. Burke, 146 U. S. 82, 88;
Lau Ow Bew v. United States, 144 U'. S. 47, 58.
Section 238, Judicial Code, as amended January 28,
1915, c. 22, 38 Stat. 803, allows appeals direct from the
District Courts to this Court, .
1st, in any case in which the jurisdiction of the court
is in issue, in which case the question of jurisdiction alone
shall be certified to the Supreme Court from the court
below for decision;
2nd, from- the final sentences and decrees in prize
causes;

POTHIER v. RODMAN.
"307

Opinion of the Court.

3rd, in any case that involves the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States;
4th, in any case in which the constitutionality of any
law of the United States or the validity 0 construction-of
any treaty made under its authority, is drawn in question;
5th, and in any case in which the constitution or law of
a State is claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of the United States.
The case presented on this motion comes within none
of these classes. Even if a -direct appeal from a conviction under the indictment in the District Court of Western Washington would lie to this Court under § 238 on
the question whether Camp Lewis was within the exclusive jurisdiction of the, United States, still the issue of
jurisdiction which § 238 makes cognizable by this Court
on direct appeal is the jurisdiction of the District Court
from, which the appeal is taken, not that of the court
'to whose jurisdiction it is proposed to remove the petitioner. Carey v. Houston & Texas Central Ry. Co., 150
U. S. 170, 180; Ex parte Jim Hong, 211 Fed. 73, 78.
There was n 6 doubt of the jurisdiction of the District
Court of Rhode Island to issue a writ of habeas corpus
to look into the legality of the detention of the petitioner.
Certainly he made n& question of it because he'asked for
its exercise.
But it-is clear that -the objection. raised by the petitioner.does not raise a question of jurisdiction directly
appealable to this Court from the District Court. Such
an objection goes to the merits and the appeal must be
to the Circuit Court 9f Appeals. Louie v. United States,
254 U. S.548, 550, 551.
Nor is there any question: of the construction or application of-the Constitution of the United States or of the
validity of a statute or treaty of the United States or of
a statute of'a State under the Federal Constitution. The
assignments of error recite that constitutional questions

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U.S.

did arise but neither the motion nor the record discloses
onie. The issue is simply whether the specified place of
the alleged murder is within the exclusive jurisdiction of
the United States and hat does not appear to involve in
any way the construction of the Federal Constitution.
This motion must, therefore, be denied, but the ground
upon which we deny it requires us to go further. The
Act of September 14, 1922, c. 305, 42 Stat. 837, requires
us, when an appeal has been taken to this Court that
should have been taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
not to dismiss the appeal but to transfer it to the proper
Circuit Court of Appeals, which in this case is that of the
First Circuit. Heitler v. United States, 260 U. S.438.
If the motion disclosed that the present appeal had
been framed under § 238 to present solely the question
of the jurisdiction of the District Court of Rhode Island
certified here by that court, it would require us to consider whether on such a limited appeal it would be our
duty and within our power to order a transfer of the
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals under the Act of
Sep ember 14, 1922. The record shows, however, that
the appeal is not so limited. The order of transfer to the
Circuit Court of Appeals-for the, First Circuit will be
made.
CITY OF NEW YORKv. NEW YORK TELEPHONE
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT &UT bF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT (F NEW YORK.

No. 588. Argued February 21, 23, 1923.--Decided March 12, 1923.
1. In a suit to enjoin enforcement of orders of a state commission
respecting telephone rates, upon the ground that the rates are
confiscatory, a city with no control over such rates but interested
only indirectly as a subscriber is not a necessary party. P. 315.
In re Engelhard & Sons Co., 231 U. S. 646.

