290

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S.

OKLAHOMA NATURAL GAS COMPANY v. RUSSELL ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE CORPORATION COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA, ET AL.
OKLAHOMA GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY ET AL.
v. CORPORATION COMMISSION OF THE STATE
OF OKLAHOMA, ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE 'UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

Nos. 406 and 419. Argued February 20, 21, 1923.--Decided March
5, 1923.
1. In its application to cases involving orders of state administrative
boards, Jud. Code ยง 266 was not confined, by the Amendment of
March 4, 1913, to those in which the constitutionality of a statute
is challenged, but applies also where the order i attacked as in
itself unconstitutional. P. 292.
2. A public service company which is being actually subjected to a
confiscatory limitation of its rates imposed by an order of a state
board, and which has alipealed to the State Supreme Court for a
revision of the order, pursuant to the state law, and been denied
a sipersedeas, is not debarred by the fact that the appeal remains
undecided from obtaining injunctive relief from the federal court.
P. 292. Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210, distinguished.
3. Where the District Court has erroneously declined to entertain an
application for a preliminary injunetion, this Court as a general
rule will remand the case for determination of the merits, and not
decide for itself in the first instance. P. 293.
Reversed.-

APPEALS from orders of the District Court denying applications for preliminary injunctions to restrain the enforcement of state orders fixing the rates of the .appellant
gas companies.

OKLA. GAS CO. v. RUSSELL.
290

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. David A. Richaidson, with whom Mr. C. B. Ameq,
Mr. T. G. Chambers, Mr. Russell G. Lowe and Mr. B. A.
Ames were on the briefs, for appellant in No. 406.
Mr. Robert M. Rainey and Mr. Streeter B. Flynn, with
whom Mr. Dennis T. Flynn and Mr.John H. Roemer were
on the brief, for appellants in No. 419.
Mr. Henry iG.Snyder and Mr. E. S.Ratliff, with whom
Mr. I. J. Underwood, Mr. F. E. Murrell and Mr. Cliff V.
Perry were on the briefs, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.
These two cases were argued separately, but they turn
on the same point, were decided in a single opinion by the
Court below and do not require a separate consideration
here. The plaintiffs are corporations organized under the
laws of Oklahoma and furnish natural gas to consumers
in that State, at rates established'by the Corporation Commission. They applied to the Commission for higher
rates but were denied an advance. The Constitution of
Oklahoma, admitted to be like that of Virginia dealt with
in Prentisv. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S.210, gives
an appeal to the Supreme Court of the State, acting in a
legislative capacity as explained in the case cited, with
power to substitute a different order and to grant a supersedeas in the meantime. Appeals were taken to the Supreme Court and supersedeas was applied for but refused.
The appeals are still not decided. After the plaintiffs had
been denied a supersedeas by the Supreme Court, they
filed these bills alleging that the present rates are confiscatory, setting up their constitutional rights and asking
preliminary injunctions, and permanent injunctions unless the Supreme Court should allow adequate rates. Applications for temporary injunctions supported by evi-

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

dence were heard by three judges but were denied by the
majority on the authority of the Prentis Case. Appeals
were taken directly to this Court.
A doubt has been suggested whether these cases are
within ยง 266 of the Judicial Code, Act of March 3, 1911,
c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087, 1162; as amended by the Act of
March 4, 1913, c. 160, 37 Stat. 1013. The section originally forbade interlocutory injunctions restraining the
action of state officers in the enforcement or execution of
any statute of a State, upon the ground of its unconstitutionality, without a hearing by three judges. The amendment inserted after the words "enforcement or execution
of such statute" the words "or in the enforcement or
execution of an order made by an administrative board
or commission acting under and pursuaht to the statutes
of such State" but did not change the statement of the
ground, which still reads "the unconstitutionality of such
statute." So if the section is construed with narrow precision it may be argued that the unconstitutionality Qf the
order is not enough. But this Court has assumed repeatedly that the section was to be taken more broadly.
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Finn, 235 U. S. 601,
604. Phoenix Ry. Co. v. Geary, 239 U. S.277, 280, 281.
Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Louisiana
Public Service Commission, 260 U. S. 212. Western.&
Atlantic R. R. v. Railroad Commission of Georgia, ante;
264. The amendment seems to have been introduced to
prevent any question thatsw4h orders were within the
section. It was superfluous as the original statute covered
them. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Garrett, 231
U. S. 298, 301, 318. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v.
Goldsboro, 232 U. S.548, 555. Grand Trunk Western Ry.
Co. v. RailroadCommission of Indiana,221 U. S.400, 403.
But it plainly was intended to enlarge not to restrict the
law. - We mention the matter simply to put doubts to
rest.

OKLA. GAS CO: v. RUSSELL.
290

293

Opinion of the Court.

Coming to the principal question, if the plaintiffs respectively can make out their case, as must be assumed for
presen purposes, they are suffering daily from confiscation under the rate to which they now are limited. They
have done all that they can under the state law to get
relief and cannot get it. If the Supreme Court of -the
State hereafter shall change the rate, even nunc pro tunc,
the plaintiffs will have no adequate remedy for what they
may have lost before the Court shall have acted. Springfield Gas & Electric Co. v. Barker, 231 Fed. 331, 335. ' In
such a state of facts Prentisv. Atlantic Coast Line Co. has
no application. See Love v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa
Fe By. Co., 185 Fed. 321, 324, 325. Rules of comity or
convenience must give way to constitutional rights. In
the case cited there was no doubt as to the jurisdiction of
the Circuit'Court but simply a decision that the bills
should be etained to await the result of appeals if the
companies saw fit to take them. 211 U, S. 232. The
companies had- iade no effort to secure a revision and
there had been no present invasion upon their rights, but
only the taking of preliminary steps toward cutting them
down. In such circumstances it was thought to be more
reasonable and proper"to await further action on the part
of the State.
As in our opinion the District Court had jurisdiction
and a duty to try the question whether preliminary injunctions should issue, and as that question has not yet
been considered, the cases should be remanded to that
Court with directions to proceed to the trial. Generally
it is not desirable thatwe should pass upon such matters
until they have been dealt with below. Lutcher & Moore
'Lumber Co. v. Knight, 217 U. S.257, 267, 268. Brown v.
Fletcher,237 U. S.583, 587, 588.
Decrees reversed and cases remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

