UNITED STATES v. ALLEN.
312

Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S. 578, 581. These cases show that exceptional
circumstances may make an order denying intervention
in a suit a final and appealable order, but the present is
not one of them.
Our conclusion is that this appeal should be
Dismissed.
UNITED STATES v. ALLEN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 232. Argued March 1, 1923.-Decided March 12, 1923.
Under the Act of May 22, 1917, c.20, 40 Stat. 84, providing that,
during the War, warrant and petty officers and enlisted men of the
Coast Guard should receive the same rates of pay as those prescribed for corresponding grades or ratings and length of service
in the Navy, a yeoman of the Coast Guard, whose duties and
qualifications in fact corresponded to those of a chief yeoman in the
Navy, was entitled to the greater pay of the latter position, notwithstanding an order of. the Secretary of the Navy making a
different classification. P. 319.
56 Ct. Clms.265, iffirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims awarding a sum as additional pay to a yeoman of the Coast
Guard.

Mr. Assistant to the Attorney General Seymour, with
whom Mr. Solicitor GeneralBeck was on the brief, for the
United States.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
and Mr. George R. Shields were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA

delivered thb opinion of the

Court.
Action for $600.00 based on the claim of Allen, who was
a yeoman in the Coast Guard, for pay at the rate fixed by
law for a chief yeoman in the Navy from April 6, 1917,

.318

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

to May 28, 1919, under the following provisions of the
Act of May 22, 1917, c. 20, 40 Stat. 84: "An Act To temporarily increase the commissioned and warrant and enlisted strength of the Navy and Marine Corps, and for
That during the
other purposes." Section 14: ". .
continuance of the present war, warrant officers, petty
officers and enlisted men of the United States Coast Guard
shall receive the same rates of pay as are or may hereafter
be prescribed for corresponding grades or ratings and
length of service in the Navy." Section 13: "Nothing
contained in this Act shall operate to reduce the rank, pay,
or allowances that would have been received by any person in the Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard except for
the passage of this Act."
Judgment was rendered for $486.32, to review which
this appeal is prosecuted.
The question presented is not the absolute rank of Allen
but the correspondence of his duties and his emolument to
those of chief yeoman in the Navy.
The Commandant of the Coast Guard submitted,
June 5, 1917, to the Chief of the Bureau of Navigation of
the Navy Department a tabular statement showing the
several grades and ratings in ihe Navy to which the Coast
Guard grades or ratings corresponded. This tabular statement was arranged on the basis of the duties and responsibilities of the several ratings.
In this table a ship's writer was put down as corresponding to a yeoman, first class, in the Navy, and a
yeoman in the Coast Guard to a chief yeoman in the
Navy. October 10, 1917, the Secretary-of the Navy issued
a general order giving the corresponding grades in which
both ship's writers and yeomen in the Coast Guard were
tabulated as corresponding to yeoman, first-class, in the
Navy instead of chief yeoman in the Navy. The tabulated statement by the Commandant of the Coast Guard
was in many other respects changed by the Navy Depart-

UNITED STATES v. ALLEN.
317

' 319

Opinion of the Court.

ment. - The action of the Navy Department was carried
out by a circular letter from the Coast Guard headquarters, and, according to it, pay of all petty *officers and
nearly all enlisted men in the Coast Guard was higher
than the pay in the Navy, thus giving to such officers no
benefit of ยง 15 of the Act of May 22, 1917.
Allen, during the time covered by his claim, was paid
as a yeoman in the Coast Guard, $1,783.80; as chief yeoman in the Navy, he would have received, $2,270.12, a
difference of $486.32.
The finding of the court was that he was entitled to
recover the sum of $486.32 more than that which he did
receive, and it awarded him judgment for that amount,
rejecting the contention- of the'Government that " the fact
that Congress did not expressly provide what grades and
-rathigs of the Coast Guard should be considered 'corresponding ' to the grades and ratings in the Navy left that
fact to be determined by the Secretary of the Navy."
The finding and judgment of the court are in accordance with a table of grades and ratings submitted by the
Commandant of the Coast Guard, pursuant to ยง 15 of the
Act of May 22, 1917, above referred to. To this table of
ratings, and the action of the Commandant, the Unfted
States opposes the order of the Secretary of the Navy,
No. 32, and maintains that it was the duty of the latter,
under the Act of May 22, 1917, in order to standardize the
pay of the Coast Guard and Navy, to determine what
were the corresponding grades or..ratings. "That preliminary question was required to be settled before 'any
pay could be fixed or allowed." And further, "The Secretary of the Navy, acting in his administrative capacity,
.and within his discretionary powers, promulgiated a table
of grades and ratings under which the claimant [Allen].
was paid."
To these contentions the court gave attentive and elaborate consideration, and determined that they were con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

trary to the purpose of the.Act of May 22, 1917, fixing the
pay of petty officers and enlisted men during the continuance of the war with Germany so that they should
receive the same pay prescribed for corresponding grades
and ratings in the Navy. It held that the test of correspondence or equality was the duties and responsibilities
of yeomen in the Coast Guard and yeomen in the Navy.
In other words, it was the judgment of the court, that, as
the dutids and qualifications of the officers were identical,
their pay should be the same. Correspondence of duties
is a question of fact, not a matter of deference to the judgment of the Secretary of the Navy.
The court said, "The statute (act of May 22; 1917) was
passed by Congress for the purpose of equalizing as far
as possible the pay of officers of. the Coast Guard with
that of officers of the Navy. The act attempted to assimilate the pay, and the court in construing the act will, so
far as conditions admit, put such a construction upon it
as will carry out the intent of Congress. In the case at
bar a Coast Guard officer renders similar service to that
rendered by a iiavil officer, has the same duties to perform, and possesses the same qualifications; the pay of
the Coast Guard officer can be assimilated to the pay of
the officer of the Navy, and therefore we think that the
plaintiff is entitled to receive the pay prescribed for chief
yeoman in the Navy."
The conclusion was that the purpose of the act was "to
establish uniformity in the pay of like-officers in the Coast
Guard and the Navy," and that it could-not be defeated
by an administrative order of the Secretary of the Navy.
Hence, the further conclusion was that Allen was entitled
to recover the sum of $486.32 and it was so ordered.
We concur, and affirm the judgment.
Affirmed.

