102

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

Under the disclosed circumstances I cannot agree that

the solemn adjudications by courts of a great State, which
this Court has refused to review, can be successfully impeached by the mere ex parte affidavits made upon information and belief of ignorant convicts joined by two white
men-confessedly atrocious criminals. The fact that petitioners are poor and ignorant and black naturally
arouses sympathy; but that does not release us from enforcing principles which are essential to the orderly operation of our federal system.
I am authorized to say that MR. JusTICE

SUTmELAND

concurs in this dissent.
DIAZ, IN HIS OWN RIGHT, ETC., ET AL. v. CARLOTA AND CLEMENTINA GONZALEZ Y LUGO,
ETC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 263. Argued January 24, 1923.--Decided February 19, 1923.
1. Power to authorize a parent to sell the interest of a minor child
in land in Porto Rico, is not limited by the Porto Rican Civil
Code, § 229 as amended in 1907, to the District Court of the
Judicial District in which the property is situated, but may be
exercised, under §§ 76 and 77 of the Code of Civ. Proc. 1904, by the
court of another District to wbich the ez parte application is submitted. P. 103.
2. An interpretation of law which has become a rule of property, accepted by the practise of a community, should not be disttirbed
unless certainly wrong. P. 105.
3. Peculiar deference is due from this Court to the views of local matters taken by courts which, like the courts of Porto Rico, have inherited and been brought up in a different system of law to that
which prevails here. P. 105.
276 Fed. 108, reversed.

DIAZ v. GONZALEZ.
Opinion of the Court.

102
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals reversing one by the Supreme Court of Porto Rico in
*favoi-of the present respondents in their suit to set aside
a sale of land.
Mr. Cornelius C. Webster, with whom Mr. Jose R. F.
Savage was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Jose A. Poventud, with whom Mr. Frederick S.
Tyler and Mr. Frank Antonsanti were on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JusTIcE

HoLmms delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought by the respondents to establish
the nullity of a sale of their land while they were all
minors. The Supreme Court of Porto Rico upheld the
sale and ordered the complaint to be dismissed, 27 P. R.
364; but the judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, 276 Fed. 108, following another decision made
by it at the same term. Agenjo v. Agenjo, 276 Fed. 105.
Thereupon a writ of certiorari was granted by this Court.
*Thefather of the respondents (plaintiffs) died in 1904,
owning the land in question, and the title passed to his
widow and his children, the plaintiffs. The land is in the
judicial district of Humacao. In 1908 the widow obtained
authority to make the sale from the District Court of the
judicial district of San Juan and the sale was made. This
suit proceeds on the ground that only the Court of the
judicial district where the land was situated.had power to
authorize the sale of the minors' interest in the land.
The argument that prevailed with the Circuit Court of
Appeals is forcible and perhaps might prevail with us if
we looked at the face of the statutes invoked; without
more.
By § 229 of the Civil Code of Porto Rico, as
amended by an Act of March 14, 1907, Laws of 1907,

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

p. 284, "The exercise of the patriapotestas does not authorize the father or mother to alienate or burden real
property which in any manner belongs to the child, and
over which either of them have the administration, except after securing judicial authorization, which shall be
accorded by the District Court of the Judicial District
where said property is situaLted, upon proof being furnished
as to the necessity or utility of such transfer or burden."
This naturally enough is taken to mean that the Court of
that district alone can give the authority required. The
interpretation gains further force when it is known that
this section of the Civil Code of 1902 originally gave the
power to the District Court of the minors' domicile and
that it was amended to its present form in 1907, with a
provision, in case of a sale by auction, for a publication
in a newspaper having a circulation in the district. It
certainly is not unnatural to read the quoted section as
excluding the application of the more general §§ 76 and 77
of thq Code of Civil Procedure, 1904, by which, (76,)
"In accordance with its jurisdiction, a court shall have
.cognizance of the suits to which the maintenance of all
kinds of actions may give rise, when the parties have
agreed to submit the suit to decision of court." (77)
"The submission shall be understood to be made: 1. By
the written agreement of the parties. 2. By the plaintiff
through the mere act of applying to the court and filing
the complaint. 3. By the defendant when, after his appearance in court, he takes any step other than to request
that he trial be held in th-5'oper court."
One might doubt even whether the last cited sections
apply to any ex parte proceedings. The respondents
made the most of the doubt. But those sections embody
earlier law and practise and we accept the conclusion of
the Supreme Court that they have been taken to extend
to such cases. Martorellv. Ochoa, 26 P. R. 625. Agenjo
v. Santiago Rosa, 26 P. R. 648. The most forcible objec-

DIAZ v. GONZALEZ.
102

Opinion of the Court.

tion is that which we have stated; that a special law
definitely applicable limits general expressions in other
laws that otherwise might be sufficient. We will not rebeat the argument quoted from Manresa and Scaevola
that jurisdiction is a matter of adjective law and that the
general provisions with regard to it are not repealed by a
repeal of the substantive law or change in the Civil Code.26 P. R. 631, 632. We will do no more than note Manresa's conclusion that although it would be more prudent
to apply to the Judge specially designated, any Judge
having jurisdiction of this class of cases .is
made competent by the submission implied from invoking his action.
The distinction taken seems to be similar to that which
we take between jurisdiction and venue. Martorell v.
Ochoa, 25 P. R. 707, 729. A mistake as to the latter is
waived by submission, Lee v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co.,
260 U. S. 653, and in the Porto Rican law an ex parte
application is an adequate submission. This is a perfectly
intelligible view, and when we axe assured by the Supreme
Court that it long has been taken, 25 P. R. 729; 26.P. R.
634; interrupted only by a momentary obstruction caused
perhaps by accepting too broadly and absolutely an -expression in Garzot v. De Rubio; 209 U. S. 283, 303, we see
no reason for not taking it here. The fact alleged that this
interpretation of the law has become a rule of property,
25 P. R. 730, is very important and is not weakened by
there being only a small number of decisions on the point.
If it has been accepted by the practise of the community
it should not be disturbed except upon an unescapable
conclusion that it is wrong.
This Court has stated many times the deference due to
the understanding of the local courts upon matters of
purely local concern. It is enough to cite De Villanueva
v. Villanueva; 239 U. S. 293; 299. Nadal v. May, 233
U. S. 447, 454. This is especially trde indealing with the
decisions of a Court inheriting and brought up in a differ-

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

ent system from that which prevails here. When ,we
contemplate such a system from the outside it seems like
a wall of stone, every part even with abl the others, except
so far as our own local education may lead us to see
subordinations to which we are accustomed. But to one
brought up within it, varying emphasis, tacit assumptions,
unwritten practices, a thousand influences gained only
from life, may give to the different, parts wholly new
values that logic and grammar never could have got from
the books. In this case a slight difference in the caution
felt in dealing with the interest of minors (Baerga v.
Registrar of Humacao, 29 P. R. 440, 442,) and a slight
change of emphasis in the reading of statutes, explain the
divergence between the Supreme Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals. Our appellate jurisdiction is not given
for the purpose of remodelling the Spanish American law
according to common law conceptions except so far as that
law has to bend to the expressed will of the United States.
The importance that we attribute to these considerations
led to our granting the writ of certiorari and requires us
to reverse the judgment below.
Judgment of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. Judgment of Supreme Court of Porto Rico affirmed.
UNITED

STATES

GRAIN CORPORATION
PHILLIPS.

v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 290. Argued January 23, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
.1. The right of a naval officer to a percentage on gold received .on
board and carried as freight, upon his responsibility (Rev. Stats.,
§§ i624, 1547; Navy Regulations [1913] Art. 1510) did not attach to gold held andshipped by the'United States Grain Corporation, as an agency of the United'State; and the obligation to

