PHIPPS v. CLEVELAND REFG. CO.
446

449

Opinion: of the Court.

assumption deny her the immunity to which she is entitled. The truth or falsity of the pleadings is not to be
assumed, it is to be established.
Judgment affirmed.
PHIPPS AND PHIPPS, AS DIRECTOR OF THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE OF THE STATE OF
OHIO, v. CLEVELAND REFINING COMPANY OF
CLEVELAND, OHIO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 324.

Argued March 15, 1923.-De'cided April 9, 1923.

A state law applicable to interstate and intrastate cpmmerce, which
imposes fees for the inspection, of petroleum products in excess
of the legitimate cost of inspection, imposes a tax and is void, if
not so far separable that the excess may properly be assigned to
intrastate commerce alone. P. 451.
277 Fed. 463, affirmed.
APPEAL from an interlocutory decree of the District
Court restraining the collection of fees for inspection of
petroleum products.

Mr. William J. Meyer, with whom Mr. John G. Price,
Attorney General of the State of Ohio, Mr. John M.
Parks and Mr. Ray Martin were on the brief., for appellant.
Mr. Charles D. Chdmberlin, with whom Mr. Hubert B.
Fullerwas on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Cleveland Company is a dealer in petroleum products and brought this suit to restrain the execution of an
act passed by the General Assembly of Ohio, May 19,

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

1915, entitled "An Act to provide for the inspection of
petroleum, illuminating oils, gasoline, naphtha; and the
repeal of sections 844 to 868, inclusive, of the G6iieral
Code." Ohio Laws, vol. 105, p. 309.
The case presented by the bill is as follows: The company is engaged in business in East Cleveland and has
the necessary instrumentalities for carrying on its business (the bill enumerates them). It buys its products in
other States, ships them into Ohio and receives at its
place of business large quantities of them. It has contracts for them which it is bound to consummate and
which it cannot perform without great loss except through
its established business.
By the terms of the statute, oil intended for sale for
illuminating purposes must be inspected in Ohio, and it
designates the fees to be paid to the State Inspector or
his deputy, which are payable on demand and are made
a lien upon the articles inspected. And there o're pro-"
visions which safeguard the quality of the oil.
The quantities of petroleum products are increased year
by year and the revenue derived by the State will increase over and above the revenue derived in past years
if the enforcement of the act is permitted to continue,
and the act is repugnant to Article I, § 10, clause 2, of
the Constitution of the United States forbidding States
from laying imposts without the consent of Congress
upon interstate commerce, except such as may be absolutely necessary for the execution of inspection laws.
The act violates Article I, § 8, giving to Congress the
power to regulate commerce, and also violates certain provisions of the constitution of Ohio.
The District Court decided that "the act, except as to
the amount of fees charged for inspection " was "in its
essential details, and even in nearly all of the language
employed, a re-enactment of the law declared unconstitutional in Castle v. Mason, 91 0. S.296." Commenting

PHIPPS v. CLEVELANID REFG. CO.
449

Opinion of the Court.

on the latter case, the court said it found the earlier -act
did not differ materially from the law pronounced void
in Foote v. Maryland, 232 U. S. 494, and that also held
to be void in Red " C " Oil Manufacturing Co. v.. North
Carolina, 222 'U. S. 380. And observed, "The General
Assembly, with at least constructive knowledge that,
under the .operations of the law, the excess of receipts
over expenses was large and annually mounting, permitted the inspection charges to.remain undisturbed, and
in this respect its conduct has differed from the conduct
of the Minnesota legislature with reference to the act considered in Pure Oil Co. v. Minnesota, 248 U. S. 158."
T£he conclusion of the court was Upon further consideration of the facts pertinent to the purpose and quality of
the act, that it was an interference with interstate commerce. The court said, "The fees prescribed by the
statute are beyond the cost of legitimate inspection to
determine the quality of the articles inspected, and the
act is therefore not only a police measure, but a revenue
measure also. Such cost by necessary operation unduly
burdens and obstructs the freedom of interstate commerce, and, as such commerce cannot be separated from
the intrastate shipments, the whole tax is void."
The court was of opinion that the other questions discussed by counsel were not necessary to consider.
Phipps, as an individual, was dismissed from the case
except as Director of the Department of Commerce.
Against him as such a temporary injunction was ordered
to issue.
Appellant contests the conclusion of the court and condenses his assignments of error to the following propositions: "1. The State's cost of interstate inspection is
greater than the fees charged therefor.- 2. In practical
administration, the comparative cost of interstate inspection is ascertainable as distinguished from the cost of intrastate inspection."

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

It is admitted that these conclusions depend upon an
estimate of the evidence, and the District Court adjudged
against them. The court found that the fees dollected
from July 1, 1915, to June 30, 1920, amounted to
$639,057.47; the disbursements to $321,188.68. The court
further found that "The collections, when least, were
sixty-three per cent. greater than the inspection costs"
and had "so advanced from year to year that the fees
provided by the statute must be held to be unreasonable
and disproportionate to the service rendered, and the Act
must be declared unconstitutional, as imposing a direct
and unlawful burden on interstate commerce, unless interstate shipments under the provisions of the Act are separable from intrastate shipments and the fees collected for
the inspection of the former are equal or substantially
equal to the cost of inspecting shipments of that character. The defendant's [appellant's] position is that the
two classes of shipments are thus separable, and the interstate shipments have in fact been inspected at a loss to
the State."
. The position was held untenable by the court upon considerations and reasoning which we need not reproduce.
It is enough to say we approve of them. It is contended
by appellant that whatever defects may-exist on the face
of the act, may be and will be corrected in its administration, and whatever excess there may be in the fees collected will not.be assigned to interstate commerce. There
is quite a minute and detailed argument to show how this
can be done. The District Court upon consideration in
connection with the evidence rejected it, and we affirm its
judgment.
Judgment affirmed.

