GT. LAKES CO. v. KIEREJEWSKI.
476

479-

Statement of the Case.

In the recent cause of Frick v. HartfordLife :Insurance
Co., 119 AtI. 229, instituted to enforce an Iowa judgment
(179 Iowa, 149) against petitioner based upon facts essentially like those here disclosed, the Supreme Court of Connecticut considered the precise point now urged upon us.
In harmony with Dresser v. HartfordLife Insurance Co.,
80 Conn. 681, 709, it held that the membership certificate
constituted a contract not to demand of the assured more
than $2.68 per thousand for any mortuary assessment;
and also that the jurisdiction of the Iowa court to render
judgment for excess payments was clear.
HartfordLife Insurance Co. v. Ibs, 237 U. S. 662, is not
in point. That controversy related to the effeQt - of the
decree in Dresserv. Hartford Life Insurance,Co., supra, a
class suit instituted to determine the status and proper
use of the mortuary, fund. The causes now under, consideration present no such problem.
The judgments below are
Affirmed.

GREAT LAKES DREDGE, & DOCK COMPANY v.
KIEREJEWSKI, ADMINISTRATRIX OF KIEREJEWSKI.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 633. Argued February 27, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.
The District Court has admiralty jurisdiction over a libel to recover
damages, in accordance with a local death statute, for a death occurring on navigable waters while the decedent was there performing maritime service to a completed vessel afloat, and occasioned by a tort then and there committed. P. 480.

Affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court recovered
by the defendant in error in her libel for damages for the
death of her husand.

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.-

Mr. George Clinton, Jr., with whom Mr. Ulysses S.
Tho-has was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Irving W. Cole for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE McRYNoLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The sole question propounded upon this direct writ of
error is whether the District Court rightly held that it had
jurisdiction to entertain the libel by which defendant in
error sought to recover damages for the death of her husband. 280 Fed. 125.
Plaintiff in error, a corporation engaged in dredging,
pile driving, etc., maintains a yard at Buffalo, New York,
and also keeps there scows and tugs. Leo Kierejewski,
a master boiler maker, was employed by it to perform
services as called upon. Acting under this employment,
he began to make repairs upon a scow moored in 'the
navigable waters of Buffalo River. He stood upon a scaffold resting upon a float alongside. One of the Company's
tugs came near, negligently agitated the water, swamped
the float and precipitated him into the stream where he
drowned.
While performing maritime service to a completed vessel afloat, he came -to his death upon navigable waters as
the result of' a tort there committed. The rules of the
maritime law supplemented by the local death statute
applied and fixed the rights and liabilities of the parties.
Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia,257 U. S. 233.
"The general doctrine that in contract matters admiralty jurisdiction depends upon the nature of the transaction and in tort matters upon the locality, has been so
frequently asserted by this court that it must now be
treated as settled." Grant Smith-Porter Ship Co. v.
Rohde, 257 U. S. 469, 476.
In the cause last cited neither Rohde's general employment nor his activities had any direct relation to naviga-

THOMAS v. KANSAS CITY SO. RY.
479

481

Syllabus.

tion or commerce-the matter was purely local-and we
were of opinion that application of the state statute, as
between the parties, would not work material prejudice
to any characteristic feature of the general maritime law
or interfere with its proper harmony or uniformity.
Here the circumstances are- very different. Not only
was the tort committed and effective on navigable waters,
but the rights and liabilities of the parties are matters
which have direct relation to navigation and commerce.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205; Carlisle
Packing Co.v. Sandanger,259 U. S.255; State Industrial
Commission of New York v'. Nordenholt Corporation,259
U. S.263.
Affirmed.
THOMAS, SHERIFF AND COLLECTOR, ET AL. v.
KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 303. Argued March 9, 12, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.

1. The legislature of a State may, if consistent with its constitution,
establish a drainage district, set the boundaries, and apportion the
cost by fixing the bases of assessment and taxation; and its con-

clusion that lands will be benefited cannot be assailed under the
Fourteenth Amendment unless palpably arbitrary or discriminatory. P. 483.
2. A portion of the franchise of a railroad may be included as real
estate within such a district; and, tb justify its assessment, the
benefit need not be direct, and may consist of gains to be derived
from increased traffic due to the improvement. Id.
3. But vague speculation as to future increased traffic receipts will not
justify a basis of. taxation which necessarily produces manifest inequality. P. 484.

277 Fed. 708, affirmed.

