OASES ADJUD
IN TIE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
GORHAM MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. WEN'DELL, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS COMPTROLLER
OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE, SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 196.

Argued on ritum to rule to show cause January 22,
1923.--Decided February 19, 1923.

1. In lroceedings in the federal courts to enjoin state officials from
collecting a tax, affeged to violate the Federal Constitution, thesuccessors of such officials may be substituted as parties when
such substitutions are permitted in the courts of the State. P. 3.
2. fn view of the New York practice, and the consent of the pariei"
substituted, held, that the State Tax- Commission might be substituted for the State Comptroller whose functions have been transferred to it, and the State Attorney General for his predecessor
in that office. P. 5.

THIS case is here on an appeal from a decree of the Di&trict Court (274 Fed. 975) dismissing upon -the merits
a suit brought by the appellant against the Comptroller
and the Attorney General of the State of New York to enjoin them from collecting a tax, aid penalties. The matters now disposed of arose upon motions for substitution
of parties and a rule to show cause why the case should
not be dismissed as to the Comptroller. See 260 U. S. 708.

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

Mr. Robert C. Beatty, with whom Mr. George Carlton
Comstock was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Carl Sherman, Attorney General, and Mr. C. T.
Dawes, Deputy Attorney General, of the State of New
York, joined in the brief with appellant.MR. CHIEF JUSTICE
Court.

TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

On December 11, 1922, appellant made a motion to
substitute the State Tax Commission of the State of New
York as appellee in place of James A. Wendell, former
Comptroller of the State of New York, deceased. This
was consented to by Charles D. Newton, then Attorney
General of New York, the other appellee. On January
1st, Charles D. Newton ceased to be Attorney General
and was succeeded in office by Carl Sherman. A second
motion is made to substitute the State Tax Commission
for Wendell, and Sherman, Attorney General, for Newton.
The State Tax Commission and Attorney General Sherman consent to the granting of this motion, indeed they
ask that they be admitted as substituted parties. On
consideration of the first motion, a rule was issued against
appellant to show cause why the case as to the Comptroller
should not be dismissed in view of Irwin v. Wright, 258
U. S. 219, and United States ex rel. Bernardin v. Butterworth, 169 U. S. 600. The case comes on now for disposition of the two motions.
The suit here is a bill in equity filed by a corporation
of Rhode Island in the United States District Court for
the Southern District of New York, to enjoin the Comptroller and Attorney General of New York from collecting
a corporation tax imposed on the complainant amounting
to $13,582.56, under Article 9a of the Tax Law of the
'Mr. Charles D. Newton, former Attorney General of the State
of New York, joined in the first motion for substitution.

GORHAM MFG. CO. v. WENDELL.
1

-

Opinion of the Court.

State of New York, ag amended by cc. 90 and 443 of the
laws of New York of 1921. The ground alleged for the
right to relief is that these chapters of the Tax Laws of
New York as applied to the complainant violate its rights
under the -Constitution of -the United States. The bill
was dismissed by the District Court and this is a direct.
appeal from that decree under ยง 238 of the Judicial Code
as amended January 28, 1915, c. "22, 38 Stat. 803.
The question raised by the rule was considered by this
Court in Irwin v. Wright, 258 U. S.219, 222, and the existing state of the law on the substitution of public officers
in suits against their predecessors in this and other federal
courts was stated. A suit to enjoin a public officer from
enforcing a statute or to compel him to act by mandamus
is personal, and in the absence of statutory. provision for
continuing it against his successor, abates upon his death
or retirement from office. In United States'ex rel. Bernardinv. Butterworth, 169 U. S. 600, the suit was to compel
Butterworth, the Commissioner of Patents, by mandamus
to issue a patent. Butterworth died pending the suit,
and this Court refused to allow the plaintiff in error to
substitute his successor although that successor consented
to the substitution. In compliance with a suggestion
from this Court, Congress enacted a statute under which"
subcessors of United States officers going out of office pending litigation may now be substitfited for them. Act of
February 8, 1899, c. 121, 30 Stat. 822. But the statute is
hot an enabling act in the case of state officers. Reference is made to Long Sault Development Co. v. Call, 242
U. S. 272, to show from the record that'in the State Supreme Court a New York State Treasurer was substituted
for his predecessor in office and no objection was made
here. That can hardly be regarded as an authority in
this Court on the point, for it passed here without notice.
The same may be said of Saranac Land &' Timber Co. v.
Roberts, 177 U. S.318, also cited; There is a plain inti-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

mation in Irwin v. Wright, supra,however, that the federal
courts can avail themselves of any state provision for
substitution, for retiring state or county officers, of their
successors in office in suits to enjoin them from action
under color of their offices, alleged to be unauthorized or
unconstitutional. This intimation is confirmed in City
of Boston v. Jackson, 260 U. S. 309.
It appears from cc. 90 and 443 of Laws of New York,
1921, that the jowers and duties vested in the Comptroller
have been transferred to the Tax Commission; but this
does not, of itself, justify the substitution of the Commission for the Comptroller in a suit which is in its essence a
personal suit to prevent his personal violation of law and
the rights of the complainant. Had the original suit been
brought against the Tax Commission, and if the Commission is a continuous body, the retirement or death of members would not effect the abatement of the suit and successors could be substituted as parties. Irwin v. Wright,
supra, 224; Marshall v. Dye, 231 U. S. 250; Richardson v.
McChesney, 218 U. S. 487, 492; Murphy v. Utter, 186
U. S. 95. But that principle is not helpful here because
the inherent difficulty in all these cases is not in the liability and suability of the successor in a new suit. It is
in the shifting from the personal liability of the first
officer for threatened wrong or abuse of his office to the
personal liability of his successor when there is no privity
between them, as there is not if the officer sued is injuring
or is threatening to injure the complainant without lawful
official authority. There is no legal relation between the
wrong committed or about to be committed by the one,
and that by the other. Of course, practically, the question usually presented in such cases is not really a personal one at all. It is the question whether a mode of
enforcement of tax laws favorable to the state or county,
is lawfully justified, or whethet the state law is warranted
by the fundamental law of the State or Nation. In such

GORHAM MFG. C0. v. WENDELL.
Opinion of the Court.
cases it is, of course, of importance to the State or County
that the question at'issue be promptly disposed of, and
that the incumbent officers charged with the defense of the
State's or County's interests maintain and continue that
defense whether they were in office at the beginning of
the litigation or not. For this reason, where such officers
on behalf of State or County consent to the substitution,
the federal courts need not be astute to enforce the abatement of the suit if any basis at all can be found in state
law or the practice of the state courts for substitution of
the successors in, office.
In the case before us, counsel have cited the New Civil
Practice Act of New York that took effect October 21,
1921, which indicates a broad policy of joining of all
partiesto any controversy who are necessary to, or proper
for, a determination thereof at anj stage of the cause and
as the ends of justice may require. Sections 192, 193 and
211 are cited. Undoubtedly these sections are very liberal
but it may be doubted whether they meet the requirement
here or were intended to do so. We need not decide this
question, however, for we find ourselves able to reach the
right coficlusion by accepting the delaration of the Court
of Appeals of New York in People ex rel. Broderick v.
Morton, 156 N. Y. 136. In that case a point was raised
(though it must be admitted its disposition was not necessary to the ultimate conclusion of the court), as to
whether an incoming 9tate officer could be substituted as
defendant in a mandamus suit brought agains his predecessor. The law did provide for such substitutions in
suits against county and municipal officers. Upon this
point the Court of Appeals, at page 148, said:
"But there is no apparent reason why he provisions of
the Code controlling actions and special proceedings
against county, town and municipal officers, should not
apply as well to state officers. The practice therein provided for is simple and affords ample protection to all

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

parties. Section 1930 provides: 'In such an action or
special proceeding, the court must, in a proper case, substitute a successor in office, in place of a person made a
party in his official capacity, who has died or ceased to
hold office; but such a successor shall not be substituted
as a defendant, without his consent, unless at least fourteen days' notice of the application for the substitution
has been personally served upon him."'
We infer. from this and from the substitution, already
referred to, made by the Supreme Court of New York in
Long Sault Development Co. v. Call, 242 U. S. 272, s. c.
Matter of Long Sault Development Co., 212 N. Y. 1, that
such substitutions are a matter of state practice and law,
and, as already said, this enables us to avail ourselves in
such a case, as this of that practice. City of Boston v.
Jackson, supra.
The motions for substitutwn of the State Tax
Commission of New York for Wendell, Comptroller,
and of Sher'nan, Attorney General, for Newton, Attorney General,will be granted.
VANDENBURGH v. TRUSCON STEEL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS -FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 273. Argued January 17, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. A patent cannot be extended by reissue to a field beyond its
original intention. P. 14. Miller v. Brass Co., 104 U. S.350.
2. Patent No. 841,741, to Vandenburgh, for a bar, to be used in
reinforcing concrete construction, provided on one side with a series
of kerfs, each with an integral overlapping spur, and a spiral coil
disposed in the kerfs and retained beneath the spurs, is not infringed by a collapsible construction consisting of a spiral loosely
engaging two spacer bars. P. 14.
3. The method of attaching a metal spiral to a metal rod by kerfs,
was anticipated in metal working and in reinforcing concrete, and

