374

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

261 U. S.

FEDERAL LAND BANK OF NEW ORLEANS v.

CROSLAND, JUDGE OF PROBATE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.

No. 428.

Argued March 7, 1923.-Decided March 19, 1923.

1. A first mortgage executed to a Federal Land'Bank is an instrumentality of the Government and cannot be subjected to a state
recording tax. P. 377.
2. Payment of a tax made a condition to the recording of a mortgage
is not optional where, under the state law, failure to record would
override the mortgage in favor of any purchaser without notice.
P. 377.
207 Ala. 456, reversed; petition for certiorari dismissed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama
which reversed a judgment of the State Circuit Court,

in mandamus, requiring a state recording officer to record
a mortgage without exacting the statutory tax.

Mr. William C. -Dufour,with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mr. John St. Paul, Jr., and-Mr. W. A. Gunter
were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. James J. Mayfield, with whom Mr. Harwell G.
Davis, Attorney General of the State of Alabama, was on
the briefs, for defendant in error.
If the recording and registration statutes of Alabama

be void, then defendant in error had no authority, an
consequently no duty was imposed upon him, to register

or record the mortgage tendered him. If the legislature
of Alabama has the authority to establish and provide
a system of registering and recording instruments evidencing title to property in Alabama, then it has the
power and authority to prescribe the manner and terms
upon whjch such instruments may be recorded, and to

FEDERAL LAND BANK v. CROSLAND.
374

375

Argumen.1 for Defendant in Error.

prohibit the registration and recording of such instruments upon other terms and conditions than those prescribed in the statutes.
If the constitution, state or federal, or even the common law of Alabama, 'had imposed a duty upon defendant
in error to register and record the mortgage, and the
legislature had by a void statute attempted to exempt him
from such duty, or to impose unlawful conditions, then
a court might compel him by mandamus to discharge the
legal duties imposed upon him by the constitution or common law; but when the very statute which confers the
authority and imposes the duty also imposes the conditions upon which the mortgage may be registered or
recorded, and prohibits the instrument from being registered or recorded unless the conditions and terms prescribed are conformed to, and makes the registration or
recording of the instrument without a compliance a misdemeanor, then no court will compel the recording officer
to violate the only law which authorizes him to register
or record the mortgage.
Congress could 'not require the State to register and
record deeds or mortgages made to the United States or its
agencies.. If, however, it should be conceded that Congress has such power, Congress has not exercised it.
Recording the mortgages and the payment of the tax
by plaintiff in error is voluntary. The plaintiff in error
can preserve all securities that it has by virtue of its mortgage or by virtue of the acts of Congress, without recording it or without paying for the privilege of so recording
it, but it cannot obtain the benefits or securities which the
Alabama statutes confer upon its mortgage unless it
records it and pays the price -of the privilege of recording
it, as provided for in the Alabama statutes.
It is not denied that this is a privilege or license tax;
but the important question is, Upon what is the tax imposed? It is not a tax upon property, and it is not a bur-

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

den or regulation imposed upon any business of the mortgagee; it is a charge or tax for privileges and benefits conferred by the State. 18 Ops. Atty. Gen. 491; Mutual
Benefit Ins. Co. v. County of Martin, 104 Minn. 179;
Wheeler v. Weightman, 96 Kans. 69; Barnes v. Moragne,
145 Ala. 313.
The Federal Farm Loan Act, 39 Stat. 377-380, ยง 26,
contains no provision exempting or attempting to exempt
the Federal Land Bank from the payment of the charge
or toll in question. Such a provision would be void. Congress can no more impose a tax or a burden upon the state
agencies than the legislature can impose a tax or burden
*upon the federal agencies.
The Federal Farm Loan Act prohibits a payment of
any charge by any one other than the borrower, while the
Alabama statute demands that the privilege tax be paid
by the lender. This could be met by negotiation. Congress, of course, can regulate the contract which shall be
made between the borrower and the lender as to loans
made by the Federal Land Bank.
The tax is on the privilege of transfer granted by tjie
state law, and no transferee, whether individual, State or
United States, can claim an exemption except as the state
law allows one. United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625;
Schneider v. Buttman, 190 U. S. 249; Pocahontasv. Virginia, 113 Va. 108.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a petition for a writ of mandamus to require the
recording officer of Montgomery County, Alabama, to
*record a first mortgage deed on receiving the fee for recording the same, without payment of an additional sum
of fifteen cents for each one hundred dollars of the principal sum secured. The General Revenue Act of- the
State, approved September 15, 1919, by ยง 361, Schedule

FEDERAL LAND BANK v. CROSLAND.
374

377

Opinion of the Court.

71, [Acts 1919, p. 420] provides that no mortgage shall
be received for record "unless the following privilege or
license taxes shall have been paid upon such instrument
before the same shall be offered for record, to-wit: . . .
upon all instruments which shall be executed to secure an
indebtedness of more than one hundred dollars there shall
be- paid the sum of fifteen cents for each one hundred
dollars of such indebtedness, or fraction thereof, which is
secured by said mortgage . . . to be paid -for by the
lender, and no such paper shall be received for record
unless there is filed therewith a certificate that the privilege tax was paid by the lender." Any .probate judge
who shall receive a mortgage without collecting the "re-*
cording or registration tax" &c., is made guilty of a misdemeanor and punished. '
On the other hand the Federal Farm Loan Act of July
17, 1916, c. 245, ยง 26, provides that first mortgages executed to Federal Land Banks shall be deemed "instrumentalities of the Government of the 'United States, and
as such they and the income derived therefrom shall be
exempt from Federal, State, municipal, and local taxation." 39 Stat. 360, 380. The validity of this provision
is not questioned. Smith v. Kansas City Title & Trust
Co., 255 U. S.180, 207, 212. Of course therefore it must
prevail over any inconsistent laws of a State.
The tax was sustained by the Supremie Court of, the
State and, the petition for mandamus was ordered to be
dismissed on the ground that the payment was optional;
that the Federal Land Bank was not required to put its
deed on record, and that if 'it did it, must pay whatever
others were yequired to pay for the registration- of its
security. But the case is not quite so simple as that.
The law of Alabama does make it practically necessary to
record such deeds, because' it overrides them if not recorded, in favor of any purchaser without notice. While
it does so it cannot say that it leaves the Bank free to

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Ol3ion of the Court.

261 U. S.

record or not. The Bank has a choice it is true, but so
has one who acts under duress. The Eliza Lines, 199
U. S. 119, 131.
The State is not bound to furnish a registry, but if it
sees fit to do so it cannot use its control as a means to
impose a liability that it cannot impose directly,* any
more than it can escape its constitutional obligations by
denying jurisdiction to its Courts in cases which those
Courts are otherwise competent to entertain. Kenney v.
Supreme Lodge of the World, 252 U. S. 411, 415. It is
not necessary to cite cases to show that an act may become unlawful when done to accomplish an unlawful end.
Of course the State is not bound to furnish its registry
for nothing. It may charge a reasonable fee to meet the
expenses of the institution. But in this case 'the Legislature has honestly distinguished between the fee and the
additional requirement that it frankly recognizes as a
tax. If it attempted to disguise the tax by confounding
the two, the Courts would be called upon to consider how
far the charge exceeded the requirement of support, as
when an excessive 'charge is made for inspecting articles
in 'interstate commerce. Foote v. Maryland, 232 U. S.
494. But it has made no such attempt. It has levied a
general tax on mortgages, using the condition attached
to registration as apractical mode of collecting it. In
doing so, by the construction given to the statute by the
Supreme Court, it has included mortgages that it is not
at liberty to reach. The characterization pf the act by
the Supreme Court as distinguished from the interpretation of it does not bind this Court. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas; 235 U. S. 350, 362. St. Louis
Cotton Compress Co. v. Arkansas, 260 U. S. 346. It is
said that the lender may collect the money in advance
from the borrower. We do not pergeive that this makes
any difference. The statute says that the lender must
pay the tax, but whoever pays it it is a tax upon the mort-

ARKANSAS GAS CO. v. RAILROAD COMM.
374

370

Counsel for Parties.

gage and that is what is forbidden by the law of the
United States.
A petition for certiorari presented by the plaintiff in
error for greater caution will be dismissed.
Decree reversed.
ARKANSAS
NATURAL COMMISSION
GAS COMPANY
ARKANSAS RAILROAD
ETv. AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF, ARKANSAS.

No. 500. Argued February 21, 1923.--Decided 1Iarch 19,1923.
1. The power of a State to abrogate private contracts touching the
rates of public utilities exists only as an incidentx to the regulation
of such utilities and their rates in the public interest. P. 382.
2. A statute will be construed if possible to uphold it as constitutional. P. 383.
3. A statute of Arkansas, transferring to the PRilroad Commission
jurisdictin formerly possessed by the Corporation Commission,
including pending cases, but denying power to modify or impair
existing contracts for supplying natural gas,, construed as not
singling out a particular gas company whose claim, that divisional
rates fixed by contract between it and distributers were inadequate,
was pending before the latter Commission. Id.
4. An exception in a statute will not be taken as intended and operating to work an arbitrary discrimination against a particular
party, when it may be construed as a general one and nothing
appears to prove either that there are not other cases within its
purview or that it is based on arbitrary classification. P. 384.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court denying, in

part, an application for a preliminary injunction.
Mr. W. B. Smith, with whom Mr.-J. M. Moore, Mr.
John S. Weller, Mr. John 0. Wicks, Mr. J. Merrick Moore
and Mr. H. M. Trieber were on the briefs, for-appellant:
Mr. E. J. Dimock and Mr. Ashley Cockrill, ,ith whom
Mr. Henry M. Armistead, Mr. Max'Pam, Mr 'Harry

