20i

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S.

ample to support the order made, is shown in the opinion
of the lower court, 282 Fed. 306, 308, 309, and in the reports of the Commission. To consider the weight of the
evidence, or the wisdom of the order entered, is beyond
our province. Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States,
246 U. S. 457; Skinner & Eddy Corporation v. United

States, 249 U. S. 557, 562; Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v.
United States, 254 U. S. 57, 62. But the way is still open
to any carrier to apply to the Commission for modification of the order, if it is believed to operate unjustly in

'any respect.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. BHAGAT SINGH THIND.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 202. Argued January 11, 12, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. A high caste Hindu, of full Indian blood, born at Amrit Sar,
Punjab, India, is not a "white person ", within the meaning of
Rev. Stats., § 2169, relating to the naturalization of aliens.
- P. 207.
2. "Free white persons," as used in that section, are words of
common speech, to be interpreted in accordance .with the understanding of the common man, synonymous with the word "Caucasian" only as that word is popularly understood. P. 214.
Ozawa v. United States, 260 U. S. 178.
3. The action of Congress in excluding from admission to this
country all natives of Asia within designated limits including all
of India, is evidence of a like attitude toward naturalization of
Asians within those limits. P. 215.

QUrESTIO NS certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals,

arising upon an appeal to that court from a decree of the
District Court dismissing, on motion, a bill brought by the
United States to cancel a certificate of naturalization.

UNITED STATES v. THIND.
204

Argument for Thind.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Alfred
A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was
on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Will R. King, with whom Mr. Thomas Mannix was
on the brief, for Bhagat Singh Thind.
Section 2169, Rev. Stats., applies "to aliens being
free white persons and to aliens of African nativity and to
persons of African descent." It may be assumed that
the terms "Caucasian"
and "white, persons" are
synonymous.
In the latter part of the Eighteenth Century Bli)mefbach divided the human race into five groups, namely, the
Caucasian, -the Mongolian, the Ethiopian, the Malay and
the American Indian; and, while this classification has
been the subject of much criticism,"it has stood the test
of time and is practical. Blumenbach's Life and Works,
p. 265; Enc. Brit., tit. "Anthropology;" Huxley, Man's
Place in Nature, p. 372; In re Saito, 62 Fed. 126; Taylor,
Origin of the Aryans, p. 2; Bopp's Comparative Grammar (1833-1835); Mueller, Survey of Languages, p. 29;
Mueller, Home of Aryans, p. 48; 14 Enc. Brit., pp. 382,
487; Peschel, Races of Men (teipsic, 1874), pp. 20, 270;
Keane, Man: Past and Present, pp. 442, 443, 557;
Keane, The World's Peoples, p. - 404; Anderson, The
Peoples of India (London, 1913), pp. 21, 27, 68; 2 Eno.
Brit., pp. 712, 749.
The foregoing authorities show that the people residing in many of the states of India, phrticularly in the
north and northwest, including the Punjab, belong to the
Aryan race. The Aryan race is the race which speaks the,
Aryan language. It :has been pointed out by many
scholars that identity of language does not necessarily
prove identity of blood, for ordinarily anyone can learn
a foreign language.. But this ar6nnent has no application to he Aryan of India; for, as far back as history

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

goes, the Aryans themselves have been the conquering
race. No other race superimposed any foreign language
upon them. The Aryan language is indigenous to the
Aryan of India as well as to the Aryan of Europe.
The high-class Hindu regards the aboriginal Indian
Mongoloid in the same manner as the American regards
the negro, speaking from.a matrimonial standpoint. The
caste system prevails in India to a degree unsurpassed
elsewhere. "Roughly, a caste is'i group of human beings
who may not intermarry, or (usually) eat with members
of any other caste." Anderson, Peoples of India, p. 35.
With this caste system prevailing, there was comparatively a small mixture of blood between the different
castes. Besides ethnological and philological aspects, it
is a historical fact that the Aryans came to India, probably about the year 2000 B. C., and conquered the aborigines. See 2 Historians' History of the World, p. 475.
Upon the interpretation of § 2169, Rev. Stats., by the
different federal courts, see In re Singh, 257 Fed. 209;
In re Mozumdar, 207 Fed. 115; In re Halladjian,174 Fed.
834; United States v. Balsara, 180 Fed. 694; Dow v.
United States, 226 Fed. 145; In re Najour, 174 Fed. 735;
In re Ellis, 179 Fed. 1002.
The Naturalization Act and the Immigration .Act of
February 5, 1917, relate to two entirely different subjects,
and for that reason alone there could be no amendment
to the Naturalization Act b- implication.
MP. JusTIcE SUTHFERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This cause is here upon a certificate from the Circuit
Court of Appeals, requesting the instruction of this Court
in respect of the following questions:
"1. Is a high caste Hindu of fuf Indian blood, born at
Amrit Sat, Punjab, India, a white person within the
meaning of section 2169, Revised Statutes?

UNITED STATES v. THIND.
204

Opinion of the Court.

-'2. Does the act of February 5, 1917, (39 Stat. L. 875,
section 3) disqualify from naturalization as citizens those
Hindus, now barred by that act, who had lawfully entered
the United States prior to the passage of said act?"
The appellee was granted a certificate of citizenship by
the District Court of the United States for the District
of Oregon, .over the objection of the naturalization examiner for the United States. A bill in.equity was then
filed .by the United States, seeking a cancellation of the
certificate on the ground that the appellee was not a white
person and therefore not lawfully entitled to naturalization. The District Court, on motion, dismissed the bill
(268 Fed. 683) and an appeal was taken to the Circuit
Court of Appeals. No question is made in respect of the
individual qualifications of the appellee. The sole question is whether he falls within the class designated by
Congress as eligible.
Section 2169, Revised Statutes, provides that the provisions of' the Naturalization Act "shall apply to aliens,
being free white persons, and to aliens of African nativity
and to persons of African descent."
If the applicant is a white person within the meaning
of this section he is entitled to naturalization; otherwise
not. In Ozawa v. United States, 260 U. S. 178, we had
occasion to consider the application of these words to the
case of a cultivated Japanese and were constrained to hold
that he was not within their meaning. As there pointed.
out, the provision is not that any particular class of persons shall be excluded, but it is, in effect, that only white
persbns shall be included within the privilege of the statute. "The intention was to confer the privilege of citizenship upon that class of persons whom the fathers knew
as white, and to deny it to all who could not be so classified.
It is not enough to say that the framers did not have in
mind the brown or yellow races of Asia. It is necessary
to go farther and be able to say that had these particular

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

races been suggested the language of the act would have
been so varied as to include them within its privileges,"
(p. 195) citing DartmouthCollege v. Woodward, 4 Wheat.
518, 644. Following a long line of decisions of the lower
federal courts, we held that the words imported a racial
and not an individual test and were meant to indicate only
persons of what is popularly known as the Caucasian race.
But, as there pointed out, the conclusion that the phrase
"white persons" and the word " Caucasian" are synonynous does not end ihe matter. It enabled us to dispose
of the problem as ftwas there presented, since the applicant fpr citizenship clearly fell outside the zone of debiatable ground on the negative side; but the decision still
left the question to be fealt with, in doubtful and different cases, by the "process of judicial inclusion and exclusion." Mere ability on the part of an applicant for
naturalization to establish a line of descent from a Caucasian ancestor will not ipso facto and necessarily conclude
the inquiry. "Caucasian" is a conventional word of
much flexibility, as a study of the literature dealing with
racial questions will disclose, and while it and the words
white persons " are treated as synonymous for the purposes of that case; they are not of identical meaningidem per idem.
In the endeavor to ascertain the meaning :of the statute
we must not fail to keep in mind that it does not employ
the word "Caucasian" but the words "white persons,"
and these are words of common speech and not-of scientific origin. The word ." Caucasian" not only was not
employed in thelaw but was probably wholly unfamiliar
to the original framers of the statute in 1790. When we
employ it we do so as an aid to t4e ascertainment of the
legislative intent and not as an invariable substitute for
the statutory Words. Indeed, as used in the science of
etlinology, the connotation of the Word is by no means
clear and the use of it in its scientific sense as an equiva-

UNITED STATES v. THIND.
204

.209,

Opinion of the Court.

*lent for the words of the statute, other considerations
aside, would simply mean the substitution of one perplexity for another. - But in this country, during the last
half century especially, the word by common usage has
acquired a popular meaning, not -clearly defined to be
sure, -but sufficiently so to enable us to say that its popular
as distinguished from its scientific application is of appreciably narrower. scope. It is lin the poplar sense of
the word, therefore, that we employ it as an aid to the
construction of the statute, for it would be obviously
illogical to convert words bf common speech used in a
statute into words of scientific terminology when neither
the latter nor the science for whose purposes they were
coined was within the contemplation of the frames of the
statute or of the people for whom it was framed. The
words of the statute are to be interpreted in accordance
with-the understanding of the common man from whose
vocabulary they were taken. Soe Maillard v. Lawrence,
16 How. 251, 261.
They imply, as we have said, a racial test; but the
term "race " is one which, for the practical purposes of
the statute, must be applied to 0, group of living pejons
now possessing in common the requisite characteristics,
not to groups of persons who ar supposed to be or really
are descended from some remote, common ancestor, but
who, whether they both resemb, him to a greater or less
extent, have, at any rate, ceased altogether to resemble
.one another. It maybe true that the blond Scandinavian
and the brown Hindu have a common ancestor in the
dim reaches of antiquity, but-the average man knows perfectly'well that there are unmistakable and profound differences between them today; and it is not impossible, if
that common ancestor could be materialized in the flesh,
we shoild discover that he was himself sufficiently differentiated from both of his descendants to preclude his
racial classification with either. The question for deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

mination is not, therefore, whether by the speculative
processes of ethnological reasoning we may present a
probability to the scientific mind that they have the same
origin, but whether we can satisfy the common understanding that they are now the same or sufficiently the
same to justify the interpreters of a statute--writ'en in
the words of common speech, for common understanding,
by unscientific men-iu classifying them together in the
statutory category as white persons. In 1790 the Adamite
theory of creation-which gave a common ancestor to all
mankind-was generally accepted, and it is not at all
probable that it was intended by the legislators of that
day to submit the question of the application of the
words "white persons" to the mere test of an indefinitely
remote common ancestry, without regard to the extent of
the subsequent divergence of the various branches from
such common ancestry or from one another.
The eligibility of this applicant for citizenship is based
on the sole fact that he is of high caste Hindu stock, born
in Punjab, one of the extreme northwestern districts of
India, and classified by certain scientific authorities as of
the Caucasian or Aryan race. The Aryan theory as a
racial basis seems to be discredited by most, if not all,
modern writers on the subject of ethnology. A review
of their contentions would serve no useful purpose. It is
enough to refer to the works of Deniker (Races of Man,
317), Keane (Man: Past and Present, 445-6), Huxley
(Man's Place in Nature, 278) and to the Dictionary of
Races, Senate Document No. 662, 61st Cong., 3d sess.,
1910-1911, p. 17.
The term "Aryan" has to do with linguistic and not at
all with physical characteristics, and it would seem reasonably clear that mere resemblance in language, indicating
a common linguistic root buried in remotely ancient soil,
is altogether inadequate to prove common racial origin.
There is, and can be, no assurance that the so-celled

UNITED STATES v. THIND.
204

...

Opinion of the Court. "

Aryan language was not spoken by a variety of races living in proximity to one another. Our own history has
witnessed the adoption of the English tongue by millions
of Negroes, whose descendants can never be classified
racially with the descendants of white persons notwithstanding both may speak a common root language.
The word "Caucasian" is in scarcely better repute.,
It is at best a conventional term, with an altogether fortuitous origin,2 which, under scientific manipulation, has
come to include far more than the unscientific' mind suspects. According to. Keane, for example, (Th6 World's
Peoples, 24, 28, 307, et seq) it includes not only the
Hindu but some of the Polynesians,' (that is the Maori,
Tahitians, Samoans, Hawaiians and others), the Hamites
of Africa, upon the ground of the Caucasic cast of their
features, though in color they range from brown to black.
We venture to think that the average well informed white
American would learn with some degree of astonishment
that the race to which he belongs is made up of such heterogeneous elements.'
'Dictionary

of Races, supra, p. 31.

22 -Encyclopmdia Britannica (11th ed.), p. 113: "The ill-chosen
name of Caucasian, inveited by Blumenbach in allusion to a South
Caucasian skull of specially typical proportions, and applied by him
to the so-called white races, is still current; it brings into one race
peoples such as the Arabs and Swedes, although these are scarcely less
different than the Americans and Malays, who are set down as two
distinct races. Again, two of the best-marked varieties of mankind
are the Australians and the Bushmen, neither of whom, however,
seems to have a natural place in Blumenbach's series."
. The United States Bureau of Immigration classifies all Pacific
Islanders as belonging to the " Mongolic grand division." Dictionary
of Races, supra,p. 102.
4 Keane himself says that the Caucasic division of the human family is "in point of fact the most debatable field in the whole range
df anthropological studies." Man: Past and Present, p. 444.
And again: "Hence it seems to require'a strong mental effort to
sweep into °a single category, however elastic, so many different

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

The various authorities are in irreconcilable disagreement as to ivhat: constitutes a proper racial division. For
iistance, Blumenbach has five races; Keane following
Linnaeus, four; Deniker, twenty-nine.' The explanation
probably is that "the innumerable varieties of mankind
run into one another -by insensible degrees," 6 and to
arkange them in sharply bounded divisions is an undertiking of such uncertainty that common agreement is
practically impossible.
It may be, therefore, that a given group cannot be properly assigned to any of the enumerated grand racial divisions. The type may have been so changed by intermixture of blood as to justify an intermediate classifica.
tion. Something very like this has actually taken place
in India. Thus, in Hindustan and Berar there was such
an intermixture of the "Aryan" invader with the darkskinned Dravidian."
In the. Punjab and Rajputana, while the invaders seem
to have -met with more success in the effort to preserve
peoples-Europeans, North Africans, West Asiatics, Iranians and
others all the 'way to the Indo-Gangetic plains and uplands, whose
complexion presents every shade of color, except yellow, from white
to the deepest brown oi even black.
"But they are grouped together in a single division, because their
essential properties are one, . . . their substantial uniformity
speaks to the eye that sees below the surface

. . . we recognize a

common racial stamp in .the facial expression, the structure of the
hair, partly also the bodily proportions,. in all of which points they
agree more with each other than with the other main divisions. "Even
in the case of .certain black or very dark races, such as the Bejas,
Somali, and a few other Eastern Hamites, we are reminded instinctively more of Europeans or Berbers than of negroes, thanks.to
their more regular features and brighter expression." Id. 448.
'Dictionary of Races, supra, p. 6. See, generally, 2 Encyclopsadia
Britannica, (11th ed.), p. 113.
'2 Encyclopedia Britannica, 11th ed., p. 113.
7 14 Encyclopmdia Britannica (11th ed.), p. 502,

UNITED STATES v. THIND.
204

'213

Opinion of the Court.

their racial purity,' intermarriages did occur producing
an intermingling of the two and destroying to a greater or
less degree the purity of the "Aryan" blood. -The rules of
caste, while calculated to-prevent this intermixture, seen
not to have been entirely successful,'
It does not seem necessary .to pursue the matter of
scientific classification further. We are unable to agree
with the District Court, or with other lower federal courts,
in the conclusion that a native Hindu is eligible for naturalization under § 2169. The words of familiar speech,
which were used by the original framers of the law, were
intended to include only the type of m n whom they knew
as white. The immigration of that day was almost exclusively from the British Isles and Northwestern Europe,
whence they and their forbears had come. When they
extended the privilege of American citizenship to -" any
alien; being a free white person," it was these immigrants--bone of their bone and flesh of, their flesh-and
their kind- whom they must have had affirmatively ih
mind. The succeeding years brought immigrants from
Eastern, Southern and Mfiddle Europe, among them the
Slavs and the darli-eyed, swarthy people of Alpine and
Mediterranean stock, and thbse were received as unquestionably akin to those already here and readily amalgamated with them. It was the descendants of these, and
I1d.
13 Encyclopsedia Britannica, p. 503: "In spite, however, of the
artificial restrictions placed on the intermarrying of the castes, the
mingling of the two races seems to have pioceeded at a tolerably
rapid rate. Indeed, the paucity of women of the Aryan stock would
probably render these mixed unions almot a necessity from the very
outset; and the vaunted purity of blood which the caste rules were
calculated to perpetuate, can scarcely have remained of more than a
relative degree even in the caseof the Brahman caste."
And see the observations of Keane (Man: Past and Present, p. 561)
as to the doubtful origin and .effect of caste.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

other immigrants of like origin, who constituted the white
population of the country when § 2169, reenacting the

inaturalization test of 1790, was adopted; and there is no
reason to doubt( with like intent and meaning.
What, if any, people of primarily Asiatic stock come

within the words of the section we do not deem it necessary now to decide. There is much in the origin and historic development of the statute to suggest that no Asiatic
whatever was included. The debates in Congress, during
the consideration of the subject in 1870 and 1875, are
persuasively of this character. In 1873, for example, the
words "free white persons" were unintentionally omitted
from the compilation of the Revised Statutes. This omission was supplied in 1875 by the act to correct errors and
supply omissions. 0. 80, 18 Stat. 318. When this act
was under consideration by Congress efforts were made to
strike out the words quoted, and it was insisted upon the
one hand and conceded upon the other, that the effect of
their retention was to exclude Asiatics generally from citizenship. While what was said upon that occasion, to be
sure, furnishes no basis for judicial construction of the
statute, it is, nevertheless, an important historic incident,
which may not be altogether Ignored in the search for the
true meaning of words which are themselves historic.
That question, however, may well be left for final determination until the details have been more completely disclosed by the consideration of particular cases, as they
from time to time arise. The words of the statute, it
must be conceded, do not readily yield to exact interpretation, and it is probably better to leave them as they are
than to risk undue extension or undue limitation of their
meaning by any general paraphrase at this time.
What we now hold is that the words "free white persons" are words.of common speech, to be interpreted in
accordance with the understanding of the common man,
synonymous with the word "Caucasian" only as that

UNITED STATES v. THIND.
204

215

Opinion of the Court.

word is popularly understood. As so understood and
Dsed, whatever may be the speculations of the ethnologist,
it does not include the body of people to whom the appellee belongs. It is a matter of familiar observation and
knowledge that the physical group characteristics of the
Hindus render them readily distinguishable from the various groups of persons in this country commonly recognized
as white. The children of English, French, German,
Italian, Scandinavian, and other European parentage,
quickly merge into the mass of our population and lose
the distinctive hallmarks of their European origin. On
the other hand, it cannot be doubted that the children
born in this country of Hindu parents would retain indefinitely the clear evidence of their ancestry. It is very
far from our thought to suggest the slightest question of
racial superiority or inferiority. What we suggest is
merely racial difference, and it is of such character and
extent that the great body of our people instinctively
recognize it and reject the thought of assimilation.
It is not without 'significance in this connection that
Congress, by the Act of February 5, 1917, c. 29, § 3, 39
Stat. 874, has now excluded from admission into this country all natives of Asia withiif designated limits of latitude
and longitude, including the whole of India. This not
only constitutes conclusive evidence of the congressional
attitude of opposition to Asiatic immigration generally,
but is persuasive of a similar attitude toward Asiatic naturalization as well, since it is not likely that Congress
would be willing to accept as citizens a class offpersons
whom it rejects as immigrants.
It follows that a negative answer 'must be given to the
first question, which disposes'of the case and renders an
answer to the second question unnecessary, and it will be
so certified.
Answer to question No. 1, No.

