ST. L.-S. F. RY. v. PUB. SERV. COMM.
363

369

Counsel for Parties.

the enlisted men in the-Aviation Section became entitled
to $33.00 a month pay and to $49.50 a month while engaged on flight duty.
The plaintiff bel6w thu's received all the pay which he
was entitled to receive.
The-judgment. of the Court of Claims is
Reversed.
ST. LOUIS-SAN FRANCISCO RPILWAY COMPANY
ET AL. v. PUBLIC SERVICE ,COMMISSION OF
THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 284. Argued March 1,. 1923.-Decided March 19, 1923.
An order of a state commission requiring a railroad company to stop
a designated interstate train at a city of 2,500 inhabitants for the
purpose of taking on and discharging passengers, and to stop another there, on signal, for like purpbses, held, under the circumstances, void, as an undue interference with interstate commerce.
P. 371.
290 Mo. 389, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri
affirming a judgment of the State Circuit Court, which
affirmed, upon a writ of review obtained by the plaintiffs
in error, an order of the defendant commission requiring
the stopping of certain trains. The Director General of
Railroads, who was in control of the railroad under the
Federal Control Act, was joined in the proceedings with
the Railway Company.

Mr. Edward T. Miller and Mr. William F. Evans, for
plaintiffs in error, submitted. Mr. Alexander P. Stewart
was also on the brief.
Mr. Frank E. Atwood, with whom Mr. L. H. Breuer
was on the brief, for defendant in error.

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE McKEwNA

261 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Railway Company conducts an interstate railroad
between Kansas City, Missouri, and Birmingham, Alabama, passing through the city of Mountain Grove,
Missouri.
Upon the petition of a volunteer organization of the
city, the Public Service Commission of Missouri ordered
the Railway Company, (1), to provide for the stopping of
its southbound train No. 105 at Mountain Grove for the
purpose of taking on and discharging passengers at that
point, and, (2), provide for the stopping of northbound
train No. 106 at the city, on flag or signal, for the purpose
of letting off passengers who board the train at points
south of the Arkansas state line, and for the purpose of
taking on passengers holding tickets for points beyond
Springfield, Missouri,-(3), the order to be in full force
and effect on and after the 16th day of June, 1919.
The order was attacked by the Railway Company on
the ground that it was "in violation of Section 8 of Article
I of the Constitution of the United States, in that it constituted a regulation of, interference with, and burden
upon interstate commerce." The order, however, was
successively affirmed by the circuit court having jurisdiction, and by the Supreme Court of the State. To the
judgment of the latter this writ of error, is directed.
The Supreme Court expressed the question to be
"whether or not the order of the Commission as affirmed
by the circuit court imposes an undue burden on interstate commerce." The court considered the question a
"vital one to be determined under the facts in this case."
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Railroad
Commission of Wisconsin, 237 U. S. 220, was adduced for
the conclusion that a State may require of a railroad
adequate local facilities, even to the stoppage of interstate

ST. L.-S. F. RY. P. PUB. SERV. COMM.
369

371

Opinion of the Court.

trains or the re-arrangement of their schedules, whether
done directly by the legislature or through an administrative body.
It was decided, however, that it was for this Court to
determine "the fact of local facilities," that determination
being necessary to our power to consider whether the regulation of the State affected interstate commerce to an
illegal extent.
. The primary principle is that, although interstate commerce is outside of regulation by a State, there may be
instances in which a State, in the exercise of a necessary
power may affect that commerce. There is, however, no
inevitable test of the instances; the facts in each must
be considered. In Gladson v. Minnesota, 166 U: S. 427,
it was decided that a state regulation requiring all regular
passenger trains running wholly within the State to stop
at stations at all county seats long enough to take on and
discharge passengers invaded no constitutional right of
the railroad, nor was it an infringement of interstate commerce because it was made applicable to interstate connecting trains or trains transporting mails of the United
States.
In Cleveland, Cincinnati,Chicago & St. Louis Ry. Co.
v. Illinois, 177 U S. 514, a statute requiring all regular
passenger trains to stop a sufficient length of time at
county seats to receive and let off passengers was held
invalid as an interference with interstate commerce, there
being local trains sufficient for the local business. The
case reviewed pridr cases including Gladson v. Minnesota,
and declared that while there is no regulatory power in a
State over interstate commerce in a proper case, the State
may exercise its power to secure local facilities, although
some interference with interstate commerce may result.
To the like effect is MississippiRailroad Commission v.
Illinois Central R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 335, and Atlantic
Coast Tine R. R. Co. v. Wharton, 207 U. S.328. In this

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

case, indeed in all of the cases, the admonitory caution is
expressed "that any exercise of state authority, in *hatever form manifested, which directly regulates interstate
commerce, s repugnant to the interstate commerce clause
of the Constitution." There is concession, however, to
the requisition of reasonable facilities; necessarily, therefore, the fact of such facilities at, or their absence from,
Mountain Grove must be inquired into.
Mountain Grove has a population of 2,500 persons,
contains a number of banks, stores of the kind that a
population of 2,500 persons would naturally demand and
support, with a trade proportionate in volume and value.
It ha besides, a creamery, a soda water plant, a wholesale
grocery business which handles dairy products, and there
are shipments of live stock from the city. There is also
an overall factory which employs about fifty girls, a State
Fruit Experimental station and a State Poultry Experimental station.
. The fimding of the Commission is that "The trade territory is estimated at from thirty to fifty miles north and
northeast, and twenty-five to forty miles south and southwest."
Tr ins Nos. 105 and 106 are through trains operated in
long-distance travel. The order of the Commission requires of one of them the fixed duty of stopping; of the
other, stopping on signal, its accommodation presumably
being only occasional. The trains are night trains and it
is difficult to see how they are necessary to the enterprise
of the city, or an essentially contributing factor or.adjunct
to its business. "We say "essentia l ly contributing" as
.4istinguished from some personal convenience or- accommodation,. which uo doubt they are. It is to be borne in
mind that interstate commerce and intrastate commerce
have different purposes and these.purposes are to be considereidl-the power of the Nation and the power of the
States are accmmodated to them and delimited by them,

ST. L.-S. F. RY. v. PUB. SERV. COMM.
369

373

Opinion of the Court.

and kept from interference and confusion. Our cases
illustrate this and, we think, deterniine against the power
exercised in the order under review. In other words, the
order under review transcends the power of the State, the
order of the Commission being of detriment to interstate
commerce.
Much is made of the ecperimental stations, and it is
said that 700 persons visit them annually who will suffer
inconvenience by-the discontinuance of the trains. The
instance has attractive appeal but. any instance of convenience has like appeal. But, as we have said, the distinction between the conimerces-state and interstateand their purposes are to be considered, and the diffeient
powers necessary to direct those purposes. Interstate
commerce is concerned with the business of States,-States
distant often from one another involving, necessarily, a
difference in service. And such is the character of the
trains in question. They are dperated in long-distance
traffic, axe the instruments of such traffic, and it is a part
of their efficiency that they are run at night. They may
be a facility in some degree to Mountain Grove. It is to
be .remembered, -however, that the city has four other
through:interstate passenger trains and any deficiency in
their schedules or equipment can be corrected without
burdening interstate commerce by stopling the trains in
question. This conclusion, we think, is in :accordance
with our-decisions.
We are compelled, therefore, to reverse the judgment
and remand the cause for further proceedings not.inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

