OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U.S.

section concerning surety companies quoted at the outset
takes in this § 12 without qualification and, if necessary,
might be said to show that a larger signification should be
given to the proviso quoted from § 3 of the Insurance Act,
at least as applied to this Company. But we are relieved
from an independent consideration of the matter by the
opinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois in Evans v. Ilinois Surety Co., 298 Ill. 101, 106, 107, April 21, 1921, the
very case in which the above mentioned injunction was
issued. On p. 106 it quotes § 12 of the Corporation Act,
and on p. 107, says, "there can be no question but that
the provisions of the General Incorporation Act heretofore quoted, and all its other applicable provisions, apply
to corporations organized under the Surety Act." This
was later than the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals
and appears to us to warrant our taking the same view
without discussion at greater length.
Judgment reversed.
FOX FILM CORPORATION v. KNOWLES ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 310, 311.

Argued February 27, 1923.-Decided March 12, 1923.

1. Under § 24 of the Copyright Act of 1909, which allows renewals
of copyrights subsisting when it went into effect with the proviso
that application shall be made and registered within the. period
of one year prior to expiration of the existing term, an author's
executor may renew, within that year, although the author died
before its commencement, so that the right to file application did
not accrue in his ,lifetime. P. 328.
2. The statute intends that an executor; there being no widow,
widower or child,Whall have the same right as his testator might
have exercised had he continued to survive. P. 329.
3. It is no novelty' for an executor to- be given rights by statute
which his testator could not have exercised while he lived. P. 330.
279 Fed. 1018, reversed.

FOX FILM CORP. v. KNOWLES.
326

Argument for Respondents.

CEMRTIoRARI to decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming the District Court in'dismissing bills brought
by the petitioner, as assignee of copyright privileges, to
restrain infringements and .for accounting and damages:
Mr. AIfred A. Wheat, with whom Mr. Saul E. Rogers
and Mr. Wm.J. Hughes were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Louis R. Bick, with whom Mr. Fred Francis Weiss
was on the brief, for respondents.
The copyright statute was enacted to enable an author,
or those who may be dependent upon him, to reap the
value'of his work, .but only under certain circumstances.
Under the section as it now reads, neither the author nor
his assignee possesses any right or power that may be
transferred to run beyond a period of 28 years. When the
renewal of the copyright is sought, anew property right is
created, not in any way dependent upon the previous
benefits of the original copyright. This new property
right, however, does not come into being until -the beginning of the last year of the original copyright. Not until
then has the author any estate or right.
Petitioner argues that, if 'our construction of the statute
is correct, Congress would not have inserted the word" executor" in this gection, unless it was intended that the4
author should have the right to beqcueath the renewal
right in advance of its accrual. But Congress, we believe,,
appreciated that an occasion might arise where the author,
might die within the last year of the copyright withouz
having applied for a renewal, and where no widow or.
children survived him. Under these conditions it, gives
.the executor the right to obtain the renewal for the benefit of the estate of the author, as the new property right
was in existence at the time of the author's death. WhiteSmith Music Pub. Co. v. Goff, 187 Fed. 247; Silverman v.
Sunrise Pictures Corporation,273 Fed. 909.

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

Mr. J. Joseph Lilly, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curice.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These are bills in equity brought by the petitioner to
restrain dramatic performances based upon two poems,
"Over the Hills to the Poor House" and "Over the Hills
from the Poor Houe," and for an account and damages.
The author of the poems, Will Carleton, held a renewed
copyright for them which expired on or about February
21, 1915. He died on December 18, 1912, testate, leaving
all his property to Norman E. Goodrich and appointing
him sole executor. On January 21, 1915, the executor
applied for and obtained a renewal of the copyright to
February 21, 1929. Later the exclusive right to dramatize the poems was assigned to the plaintiff. The only
defense relied upon here is that the statutes did not give
the executor a right of renewal and that therefore the
copyright has expired. The bills were dismissed upon
this ground by the District Court, (No. 310) 274 Fed.
731; (No. 311) 275 Fed. 582, and the decrees were
affirmed on the authority of Silverman v. Sunrise Pictures
Corporation, 273 Fed. 909, by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 279 Fed. 1018.
This copyright was subsisting when the Copyright Act
of March 4, 1909, c. 320, 35 Stat-. 1075, went into effect.
By § 24 of that statute cop..ghts so subsisting "may,
at the expiration of the term provided for under existing
law, be renewed and extended by the author of such
work if still living, or the widow, widower, or children
of the author, if the author be not living, or if such
author, widow, widower, or children be not living, then
by the author's executors, or in the absence of a will, his
next of kin, for a further period such that the entire term
shall be equal to that secured by this Act, including the

FOX FILM CORP. v. KNOWLES.
326

Opinion of the Court.

renewal period:
. . Provided, That application for
such renewal and extension shall be made to the copyright office and duly registered therein within one year
prior to the expiration of the existing term." The argungent on which the statute was held not to apply to the
present case was that the renewal creates a new estate,
White-Smith Music Pub. Co. v. Goff, 187 Fed. 247; that
the estate is purely statutory, and does not exist until
within one year prior to the expiring of the existing
term; that therefore Carleton dying more than a year before that moment had nothing to bequeath; and that the
statute gave nothing to the executor except when the
testator had the right to renew at the moment of his
decease. It is argued that the executor is mentioned only
to provide for the case of the testator's dying within the
year without having exercised his right to renew, and
thus having a right that the statute allowed him to
transmit.
All of these "P5bpositiohs .ay' be admitted, (for the
purposedrof'the plsent argument only,) except the last.
B ui*f we see fl: §ufficleift reason for thus limiting the right
o'the execdtor. The section read as a whole would
exliress to thie ordinary reader a general intent to secure
thecontinuance of the copyright after the author's death
and none the less so if the actual continuance was effected
by creating a new estate, or if the beneficiaries in certain
cases are pointed out. No one doubts that if Carleton
had died leaving a widow she could have applied as the
executor did, and executors are mentioned alongside of the
widow with no suggestion in the statute that when executors are the proper persons, if anyone, to make the claim,
they cannot make it vhenever a widow might have made
it. The next of kin come after the executors. Surely
they again have the same rights that the widow would
have had. The limitation is derived from a theory that
the statute cannot have intended the executor to take

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261-U. S.

unless he took what the testator already had. We should
not have derived that notion from the section, which
seems to us to have the broad intent that we have expressed, and the words specially applicable seem to ud
plainly to -import that if there is no widow or child the
executor may exercise the power that the testator might
have exercised if he had been alive. The executor represents the person of his testator, Littleton, § 237, and
it is no novelty for him to be given rights that the testator
could not have exercised while he lived. Green v. Ekins,
2 Atk. 473, 476. A familiar illustration is to be found
in the Employers' Liability Act which gives to personal
representatives a new cause of action for causing death,
although the foundation is the original wrongful injury
to the deceased. Michigan CentralR. R. Co. v. Vreeland,
227 U. S. 59, 68, 70.
Decrees reversed.
PULLMAN COMPANY v.
TREASURER OF THE
FORNIA.

RICHARDSON,
AS
STATE OF CALI-

HINES, AS DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS,
ET AL. v. RICHARDSON, AS TREASURER OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

Nos. 143-148, and 149.

Argued December 4, 5, 1922.--Decided
March 12, 1923.

1. A State may tax that part of the property of a carrier engaged in
interstate and local business which is permanently located or commonly used within the State, according to its fair value as part of
a going concern, measured with reference to the gross receipts from
both local and interstate business. P. 338.
2. A tax, measured in this way, which is called a property tax, which
is imposed in lieu of all other taxes upon the carrier's property in

the State, which is not in excess of what would be a legitimate tax

