SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. U. S.
Counsel for Parties.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY COMPANY ET
AL. v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR, THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 407. Argued January 23, 1923.-Decided March 5, 1923.
1. In an action against the United States under § 10 of the Lever Act,
to recover just compensation for property requisitioned for public
use, the owner is entitled to judgment for the value of the property
as of the time of the taking and for so much in addition as will
produce a full equivalent of that value, paid contemporaneously
with the taking. P. 304.
2. This additional amount may be measured by allowing interest at
a proper rate; and the legal rate in the State where the property
lies may be applied for this purpose if fair and reasonable. P.. 305.
3. The just compensation to which the owner is entitled depeinds on
the Constitution and cannot be restricted by statute, and its
ascertainment is a judicial function. P. 304.
4. The rule disallowing interest against the United States in the
absence of a stipulation or statute, is inapplicable.to an action, not
based on contract or any mere claim or accounting against the Government, but which is part of a proceeding initiated by the United
States for the condemnation 'of property and seeks ascertainment
and payment of just compensation for it. P. 306.
280 Fed. 349, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
reversing a judgment of the District Court for the railway company in an action under the Lever Act.

Mr. Forney Johnston, with whom Mr. Henry Buist,
Mr. George L. Buist, Mr. J. Harry Covington and Mr.
James F. Wright were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for the United States.

261 U. S.

Interest upon the amount found to be the value of property taken for a public use, pursuant to the Lever Act, can
not be awarded against the United States.
Under the Constitution, when private property is taken
for public use, no particular method for ascertaining the
just compensation to which the owner is entitled is necessary. All that is required is that it be conducted in some
fair and just manner with opportunity for the owner to
present evidence and be heard. Rauman v. Ross, 167 U. S.
548; United States v. Jones, 109 U. S. 513.
Under the- Lever Act, two methods were provided, and
the property owner had his choice. First, the President
was directed to ascertain and pay it. Second, if the owner
was unwilling to accept the President's award, he could
take 75 per cent of it and sue for the balance deemed by
him to be proper in order to make the award adequate.
But this suit must be in the courts which the United States
had empowered to decide claims against i, and we think
it is obvious that such a suit must be regarded as an action
upon the contract which the United States had made in
the act itself to pay just compensation.
When, therefore, the property owner declined to accept
the President's award, and elected to sue, he must have
realized that his suit would be subject to the delays incident to all litigation, and to the well-established principles
governing such suits and the well-defined limitations
which the United States had fixed with respect to its iability. One of these limitations which had become thoroughly well settled was that interest is never recoverable
on claims against the Government, in the absence of a
statutory enactment, or of an express contract for the payment thereof.
The jurisdiction granted to the District Courts under
this section is to be exercised in accordance with the law
governing the usual proceeding of the District Court in
aotions at law for money compensation. United States v.
Pfitsch, 256 U. S. 547. The act itself makes no provision

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. U. S.
299

.

Argument for the United States.

for the payment of interest or for any special form of procedure or measure of damages, nor does it repeal or modify the provisions of §§ 1090 and 1091, Rev. Stats., relative
to the allowance of interest on claims against the United
States.
Interest, therefore, can not be allowed. Tilson v.
United States, 100 U. S. 43; Harvey v. United States,'113
U. S. 243; United States v. Bayard, 127 U. S. 251; United
States v. North Carolina,136 U. S. 211; United States v.
North American Transportation& Trading Co., 253 U. S.
330. United States v. Rogers, 255 U. S. 163, and United
States v. Highsmith, 255 U. S. 170, were both condemnation proceedings to acquire real estate for government
uses and were regulated by the Act of August 1, 1888, 25
Stat. 357. Section 2 of this act provided that the practice,
pleadings, forms and modes of proceedings in causes arising under the provisions of ,the act shall conform to the
practice, pleadings, forms and proceedings existing at the
time in like causes in the courts of record in the State
within which such circuit or district courts are held. In
fixing the compensation the District Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals in affirming the judgment followed the
New Mexico statute fixing the rate of interest at 6 per
cent. In doing this the Circuit Court of Appeals followed'
the provisions of the condemnation statute and also the
decision in United States v. Sargent, 162 Fed' 81, wherein
tKe laws of Minnesota were followed where land was appropriated in that State.
The Sargent Case also recognized as settled the immunity of the Government for the payment of interest on
claims, but held that a proceeding instituted by the United
States for the condemnation of land for public use is not
one to. collect an-account or claim but an adversary proceeding instituted by the Government against landowners for the taking. -In this connection- attention is invited
to a large number.of so-called overflow cases instituted in
the Court of Claims and the United States District Courts,

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

under the provisions of the Tucker Act to recover just compensation for land taken by the United States as a result
of overflow consequent upon the construction of locks and
dams, starting with. United States v. Lynah, 188 U.S. 445,
and ending with United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316. It
is to be noted that the only interest paid plaintiffs .in the
hundreds of suits decided during that period was the statutory interest at 4 per cent per annum allowed on judgments of the circuit and district ourts (but not those of
the Court of Claims) from the date of the rendition of
same to the date of payment, as provided by § 10 of the
Tucker Act, 24 Stat. 505.
MR. JUsTIcE BuTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff in error, the Seaboard Air Line Railway
Company, was the owner of 2.6 acres of land at Charleston, South Carolina, adjoining the Charleston Port Termrinal, subject to a mortgage to the Guaranty Trust Company and William C. Cox.' On May 23, 1919, the United
States, under authority of § 10 of the Lever Act,2 requisitioned and took possession of such land to provide storage
facilities for supplies necessary to the support of the Army
and other uses connected with the public defense.
The President, through the War Department Board of
Appraisers, determined the compensation to be the sum
'For convenience, the railway company and mortgagees will be
referred to herein as "the owner."
'Act of Congress approved August 10, 1917, c. 53, 40 Stat. 276:
"Sec. 10. That the President is authorized, from time to time, to
requisition foods, feeds, fuels, and other supplies necessary to the
support of the Army or the maintenance of the Navy, or any other
public use connected with the common defense, and to requisition, or
otherwise provide, storage facilities for such supplies; and he, shall
-ascertain and pay a just compensation therefor. If the compensation
so determined be not satisfactory to the person entitled to receive
the same, such person shall be paid seventy-five per centum of the
amount so determined by the President, and shall be entitled to sue

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. U. S.
299

Opinion of the Court.

of $235.80, With interest thereon at the rate of six per cent.
per annum from the date of the taking to the date of
voucher for final payment. The amount was not satis-factory to the owner, and the United States was 'o notifled. Demand was made for seventy-five per cent. of the
award, but no part of the amount was paid. The owner
sued to recover such further sum as, when added to such
seventy-five per cent., would amount to- just compensation for the property so taken.
The jury returned a verdict as follows:
"We, find that the fair and reasonable value which
would constitute a just compensation to be paid for the
taking for public purposes on 23 May, 1919, of the lands
mentioned and described in the Petition, under the issue
herein to be Six Thousand Dollars."
Judgment was entered for $6,000 with interest from
May 23, 1919, at the rate of seven per cent, per annum
(the statutory rate in South Carolina).
'The United States objected to the interest allowed and
took the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and that
court reversed- the judgment of the District Court and
awarded a new trial, unless the owner file a remittitur
abating all interest. The owner refused and brought the
case here on writ of error.
Did the District Court err in allowing interest on the
amount of the verdict?
the United States to recover such further sum as, added to said"
seventy-five.per centum will make up such amount as will be just
compensation for such necessaries or storage space, and jurisdiction

is hereby conferred on the United States District Courts to hear and
determine all such controversies: Provided, That nothing in this sec-

tion, or in the section that follows, shall be construed to require any
natural person to furnish to the Government any necessaries held by
him and reasonably required for consumption or use by himself and
dependents, nor shall any person, firm, corporation, or association-be'
required to furnish to the Oovernment any seed necessary for the
seeding of land owned, leased, or cultivated by them."

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

The rule is that, in the absence of a stipulation to pay
interest or a statute allowing it, none can be recovered
against the United States upon unpaid accounts or claims.
United States v. Rogers, 255 U. S. 163, 169; United States
v. North American Transportation& Trading Co., 253
U. S. 330; United States v. North Carolina,136 U. S. 211,
216; Angarica v. Bayard, 127 U. S. 251, 260; Harvey v.
United States, 113 U. S. 243.
Section 10 of the Lever Act authorizes the taking of
property for the public use on payment of just compensation. There is no provision in respect of interest. Just
compensation is provided for by the Constitution and the
right to it cannot be taken away by statute. Its ascertainment is a judicial funclon. Monongahela Navigation
Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 327.
The compensation to which the owner is entitled is the
full and perfect equivalent of the property taken. MonongahelaNavigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312,
327. It rests on equitable principles and it means substantially that the owner shall be put in as good position
pecuniarily as he would have .been if his property had not
been taken. United States v. Rogers (C. C. A., Eighth
Circuit), 257 Fed. 397, 400. He is entitled to the damages
inflicted by the taking. N( them PacificRy. Co. v. North
American Telegraph Co. (C. C. A., Eighth Circuit), 230
Fed. 347, 352, and cases there cited.
The United States in effect claims that the owner is
entitled to no more than the value of the land, as of date
of taking, to be paid at a later time, when ascertained.
The owner has been deprived of the land and its use since
the taking, May 23, 1919. The value of the property, as
ascertained by the President, was $235.80, and this was
allowed with interest from date of taking. But as judicially determined later, the value when taken was $6,000.
The owner's right does not depend on contract, express
or implied. A promise to pay is not necessary. None is

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. U. S.
299

Opinion of the Court.

alleged. This suit is a part of the authorized procedure
initiated by the United States for the condemnation of
the land. The owner was not satisfied with the amount
fixed by the President and sued. A necessary condition
of the taking is the ascertainment and payment of just
compensation. Monongahela Navigation Co. V. Uniied
States, 148 U. S. 312, 337; Searl v. "SchoolDistrict, Lake
County, 133 U. S. 553, 562; United States v. Jones, 109
U. S. 513, 518, et seq.; United States v. Sargent, 162 Fed.
81, 83. It is not suggested in this case that the provisions of § 10 of the Lever Act do not meet the constitutional requirement. The only question here is whether
payment at a subsequent date of the value of the land
as of the date of taking possession is sufficient to constitute just compensation.
In support of its contention the Government cites
United States v. North American Transportation& .Trading Co., 253 U. S. 330. That case does not sustain its contention. That was a suit in the Court of Claims based
on an implied promise of the United States to pay for
property appropriated by it. It was not a condemnation
case. The distinction between that case and a condetonation case is pointed o-bt in the opinion. It was
there suggested, without so deciding, that in the case of
condemnation of land, interest might be collected, even
in the absence of state enactments allowing it adopted by
the conformity provisions.
The- case of United States v. Rogers, 255 U. S. 163, is
a condemnation case, and it was held that the owner was
entitled as a part of the just compensation to interest on
the .confirmed award of the commissioners from the time
when the United States took possession. The land was
situated in New Mexico, and the proceedings were -had
under the Conformity Act of August 1, 1888, c. 728, 25
Stat. 357. Interest was allowed, not by virtue of state
statute, but as constituting a part of the just compensation safeguarded by the Constitution. Speaking for the

306

OCTOBER TEAM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

Court, Mr. Justice Day said: "Having taken the lands
of the defendants in error, it was the duty of the Government to make just compensation as of the time when the
owners, were deprived of their property." (Citing MonongahelaNavigation Co. v. United States, supra, 341).
It is obvious that the owner's right to just compensation cannot be made to depend upon state statutory provisions. The Constitution safeguards the right and § 10
of the Lever Act directs payment. The rule above referred to, that in the absence of agreement to pay or
statute allowing it the United States will not be held
liable for interest on unpaid accounts and claims, does not
apply here. The requirement that "just compensation"
shall be paid is comprehensive and includes all- elements
and no specific command to include interest is necessary
when interest or its equivalent is a part of such compensation. Where the United States condemns and takes
possession of land before ascertaining or paying compensation, the owner is not limited to the value of the property at the time of the taking; he is entitled to such addition as *ill produce the full equivalent of that value paid
contemporaneously with the taking. Interest at a proper
rate is a good measure by which to ascertain the amount
so to be added. The legal rate of interest, as established
by the South Carolina statute was applied in this case.
This was a "palpably fair and reasonable method of performing the indispensable condition to the exercise of the
right of eminent domain, namely, of making 'just compensation' for the land as it stands, at the time of taking." United States v. Sargent (C. C. A., Eighth Circuit), 162 Fed. 81, 84.
The addition of interest allowed by the District Court
is necessary in order that the owner shall not suffer loss
and shall have "just compensation" to which he is
entitled.
. The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed.

