BIBEL CO. v. PAPER CO.

45

Syllabus.

EIBEL PROCESS COMPANY v. MINNESOTA &
ONTARIO PAPER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 178.

Argued January 5, 8, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.

1. The Eibel patent, No. 845,224, for an imptovement on Fourdrinier paper-making machines, whereby, mainly through a substantial elevation of the breast-roll end of the moving screen or
"paper-making wire ", the liquid stock discharged upon the screen
acquires through gravity an additional speed, enabling it to keep
pace with the screen at the critical paper-forming point, thus avoiding injurious disturbances of the stock when the screen moves very
rapidly, and making possible a much speedier production of good
paper than was theretofore obtained from the machines without the
improvement,-held, a new and useful invention. P. 52.
2. The prompt and general adoption of the improvement, with increased productivity of the machines to which it was applied, is
strong evidence of its novelty and usefulness. P. 56.
3. Previous adoption of a comparatively slight pitch of the screen,
but for another and distinct purpose, did not constitute anticipation of this invention. P.'58.
4. Oral evidence of prior discovery must be clear and satisfactory to
sustain an attack on a -patent. P. 60.
5. A patent for a very meritorious improvement on an old machine,
substantially advancing the art, is entitled to a liberal construction. P. 63.
6. In this case, the patent is construed to cover a Fourdrinier machine in which the pitch of the wire screen is used, not as the sole,
but as an appreciable factor, in addition to those already present,
in bringing about approximate equal velocity of stock and screen
at the point where; otherwise, injurious disturbances of the stock
would be produced. P. 65.
7. General descriptive terms in a patent are not objectionable where
it would have been difficult to make them more specific and
where the description is sufficient to enable those skilled in the art
to apply the invention. P. 65.
8. Accidental results, not appreciated, will not constitute anticipation. P. 66.

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S.

9. An increased elevation in the pitch of an element in a machine
beyond that previously employed for another purpose is not
mere matter of degree but amounts to invention when applied

successfully to remedy an old defect in connection with the discovery
of its cause. P. 66.
10. The novelty of an invention is not impeached by the fact that
the same results may be achieved in 4 different way. P. 69.
11. "he patent in this case, claims 1, 2, 3, 7, 8 and 12, were infringed
by defendants. P. 69.
12. The first five of these are claims for a machine, and not a process.

P. 70.
274 Fed. 540, reversed.
This was a bill in equity charging the infringement of a
patent and seeking an injunction, an accounting and
damages. The patent No. 845,224 issued to, William
Eibel, February 26, 1907. The application was filed
August 22, 1906. The specifications describe the patent
as for an improvement for Fourdrinier machines for paper
making and say that it "has for its object to construct
and arrange the machine whereby it may be run at a very
much higher speed than heretofore and produce a more
uniform sheet of paper which is strong, even, and well
formed." The contention of the plaintiff, the petitioner
here, is that the"improvement was an important step in
the art of paper making, and increased the daily product
from twenty to thirty per cent.
The patent was held void by the District Court for the
Western District of New York in the case of Eibel Procen Co. v. Remington-Martin Co., 226 Fed. 766 (1914).
On appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Chuuit reversed the decree .of dismissal in the District
Court, sustained the patent and found infringement of
Claims Nos. 1, 2 and 3, but did not pass upon Claims
Nos. 7, 8 and 12. 234 Fed. 624 (1910): The bill in thd
present case was filed in the District Court for Maine,
January 1, 1917. That court in 1920 held.the patent valid
and entered a decree of injunction and for damages. 267

EIBEL CO. v. PAPER CO.
45

Statement of the Case.

Fed. 847. On appeal, the Circuit Court of -Appeals for
the First Circuit reversed the decree and directed the dismissal of the bill. 274 Fed. 540 (1921). Because of the
conflict in the two circuits, certiorari was granted to review the latter decree.
The Fourdrinier machine has for many years been well
known and most widely used for makinF news print
paper. Its main feature is an endless wire cloth sieve
passed over a series of rolls at.a constant speed. The sieve
known as the." wire" is woven with 60 or 70 meshes to
the inch. It may be 70 feet or more in length and is often
more than 100 inches in width. Its working surface with
the total length of 70 feet is about 30 feet, the rest being
taken up in the return of the wire underneath. At what
is called the breast rolli at one end of the machine, there
is discharged upon the wire from a flow box or pond, a
constant stream of paper making stock of fibres of wood
pulp mixed with from 135 to 200 times their weight of
water of the consistency and fluidity of diluted milk. As
this stream moves along the wire, the water drains*
through its meshes and the fibres are deposited thereon.
The process is stimulated by a device to shake the wire
with constant and rapid sidewise thrusts, forward and
back, which insures the proper interlocking and felting of
the.stock as it progresses, the water continuingto drain
from it. At the end of the surface length of the wire, the
stock reaches what are called, the couch rolls between
which it is pressed and then in the form of a sheet of uniformly distributed pulp, felted sufficiently to hold together, it leaves the wire and is carried through a series
of rolls or calendars by which the sheet is pressed and
dried and from which it emerges to be rolled up as finished
paper.
In the flow box or "pond" where the stream
of pulp
stock is stored there is a gate or door forming the end of
the flow box called the "slice" by lifting which the stock

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U.S.

is given the opportunity to flow upon the wire. The
stream thus issuing is given a width of the desired sheet
of paper and a depth regulated by the height to which
the slice is lifted. The stream on the wire is prevented
from flowing off the sides by "dec k l e straps" which are
thick rubber bands, resting on each side of the wire at
each side of the pulp. Travelling with the wire, they form
lateral walls confining the stock till it is too dry to flow.
Between the breast roll where tfihe stream of liquid stock
strikes the wire, and the couch rolls at the end of the surface length of the wire, there is a series of parallel horizontal rolls supporting the wire, called table rolls, and,
twenty feet from the breast roll, there are placed under
'the wire and in contact with it, three suction boxes in succession, in which a partial vacuum is maintained; and
through them is sucked out the greater part of the water
remaining in the wet sheet.of the'pulp. Placed above the
wire and just beyond the first suction box is what is called
the "Dandy Roll," which is faced with wire cloth. Its
office is to impress the upper surface of the forming sheet
of paper and give it a texture similar to that which the
lower. surface of the paper has from its contact with the
wire. It may also carry the design which is to give the
watermark to the sheet if such a mark is desired. Beyond
this is a larger roll called the guide roll, arranged with an
automatic device varying its axis so as to keep the-wire
straight. From the guide roll the wire drops below the
plane to the couch rolls already referred to.
These machines are very large, some of them weighing
more than a million pounds, and their cost will range as
high as one hundred twenty-five thousand dollars. They
are run night and day in order that the capital invested
in them may yield a proper return. Speed Which increases production is therefore of the highest importance.
Eibel's patent had for its avowed purpose the increase of
this speed.

EIBEL CO. v. PAPER CO.*
45

Statement of the Case.*

E
Bibel
says in his, specifications:
"My invention is embodied, essentially, in the first part
or element of the machine having the Fourdrinier wire
or*paper-making wire, and consists in causing the stock
to travel by gravity in the direction of movement of the
making-wire and approximately as fast as the makingwire moves, thereby resulting in a "gravity-feed" for
the machine. The stock may be and preferably is caused
to travel more rapidly than the normal or usual speed of
the making-wire for a certain grade of stock, and means
are provided for increasing the speed of the machine so
as to cause *themaking-wire to move at a higher rate of
speed than usual, being substantially equal to the speed
of the rapidly-moving stock. To accomplish this result
in a simple manner, the breast-roll end of the papermaking wir is maintained at a substantial elevation above
the level, thereby providing a continuous downwardlymoving paper-making wire, and the declination thus given
to the wire is such that the stock is. caused to travel by
gravity in the direction of the movement of the wire and
substantially as fast as the wire moves. The declination
of the paper-making wire may be adjustable or the speed
of the wire may be variable, or both the declination aid
speed of the wire may be adjustable, in order that the
velocity produced by gravity in the stock on the declining
wire will approximately equal the speed of the wire. By
this arrangement the speed of the machine may, be increased to such an extent as to bring the speed of the
making-wire up to the maximum velocity of the rapidlymoving stock and a strong, even and well-formed sheetU
produced which is more uniform than usual."
Two figures accompany the specifications of the Bibel
patent. Figure-No. 1 shows the wire of the Fourdrinier
machine in outline from the breast roll to the guide and
couch rolls, with a screw device for raising and lowering

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S.

the breast roll and wire from the horizontal. The outline
shows an elevation of the breast roll and wire so that the
angle between the wire and the horizontal at the guide
roll is about four per cent., which in a surface length of
30 feet would mean an elevation of 12 inches at the breast
roll. The other figure No. 2 shows a device for regulating
the speed of the wire applied at the lower couch roll.
Again the patentee says:
"For the purpose of increasing the speed of the machine
to the maximum I maintain the breast-roll end of the
making-wire at a high elevation above the level, so that
the stock travels by gravity much faster than the makingwire ordinarily runs for a certain grade of stock, and I
then increase the speed of the machine to such extent as
to bring the rate of speed of the making-wire up to the
speed of the rapidly-moving stock, and as a result the
capacity of the machine is largely increased.
"I find in practice that by providing a gravity-feed
operating substantially as herein described the stock runs
smoothly and evenly without waving or rippling, and the
fibers are thereby permitted to settle with great uniformity as regards their distribution over the the wire, so that
the paper in addition to being well formed is very uniform.
Furthermoie, as the stock is moving with the papermaking wire instead of being moved by the wire, or
essentially by the wire, the formation of the paper will
begin at the start and will continue to the end. of the
travel of the stock with the wire."
The claims in question are:
1. A Fourdrinier machine having the breast-roll end of
the paper-making wire maintained at a substantial elevation above the level, whereby the stock is caused to travel
by gravity, rapidly, in the direction of movement of the
wire, and at a speed approximately equal to the speed of
the wire, substantially as..desftrib 4 .
2. A Fourdrinier i Ichine having the breast-roll end of
the paper-making wire maintained at a high elevation,

I EIBEL .CO. v. PAPER CO.
45

Statement of the Case.

whereby the stock is caused to travel by gravity faster
than the normal speed of the wire -for a certain grade of
stock, and having means for increasing the speed of the
machine to cause the wire to travel at substantially the
same rate of speed as the rapidly-moving stock, substantially as described.
3. A Fourdrinier machine having the paper-making
wire declined from the breast-roll to the guide-roll, the
breast-roll end of the wire being maintained at a substantial elevation above the level, whereby the stock is
caused to travel by gravity,, rapidly, in the direction of
movement of the wire-and at a speed approximately equal
to the speed of the wire, substantially as described.
7. A Fourdrinier machine having the paper-making
wire declined from the breast-roll to the guide-roll, and
the suction-boxes supported at a corresponding declination, substantially as described.
.8. A Fourdrinier machine having the paper-making
wire declined from the breast-roll to the guide-roll, and
the several suction-boxes arranged at different elevations,
substantially as described.
12. In a Fourdrinier machine, a downwardly-moving
paper-making wire, the declination and speed of which
are so regulated that the velocity of the stock down the
declining wire, caused' by gravity, is so related to the
velocity of the wire in the same direction, that waves and
ripples on the stock are substantially .avoided and the
fibers deposited with substantial uniformity on the wire,
substantially as described.
Mr. FrederickP. Fish, with whom Mr. Guy Cunni.ngham and Mr. Harrison F. Lyman were on the briefs, for
petitioner.
Mr. Amasa C. Paul, with whom Akr. Livin]ston Gifford, Mr. Richard Paul, Mr. Maurice M. Mqore and Mr.
Nathan Heard were on the briefs, for respondent.

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAr, after stating the case as
above, delivered the opinion of the Court.

The evidence in the case establishes that before Eibel
entered the field, continued high. speeds in the wire of
the Fourdrinier machine much beyond five hundred feet
a minute resulted in defective paper. Eibel concluded
that this was due to the disturbance and ripples in the
stock as it was forming at a point between the breast.roll
and the first suction box, caused by the fact that at that
point the wire was travelling much faster than the stock,
and that if at that point the speed of the flowing stock
could be increased approximately to the speed of the wire,
the disturbance and rippling in the stock would cease and
the defects would disappear from the paper product.
Accordingly he proposed to add to the former speed of the
stock by substantially tilting up the wire and giv ig the
stock the added force of the down hill flow. He thought
that as long as he could thus maintain equality of speed
between stock and wire at the crucial point, and prevent
the disturbance and rippling there, a further increase in
the speed of the wire would not result in a defective
product. He confirmed this by actual trial. •
The first and most important question is whether this
was a real discovery of merit. The Circuit Court of
Appeals thought not. The prior art and the obvious
application of the principle that water will run down hill
in their opinion robbed it of novelty or discovery. The.
issue is one largely of evidence.
The plaintiff below introduced the patent and some
evidence of infringement and a single expert to explain
the discovery and invention and rested. Then the defendant brought in a mass of evidence to show prior discovery and use, to impeach the utility of plaintiff's alleged
invention and to demonstrate the indefiniteness of specification and claims. The fact that the adjudication of the

EIBEL CO. v. PAPER CO.
45

Opinion of the Court.

validity of the patent would impose a royalty on many
of the paper manufacturers of the country who were not
already licensees of .the plaintiff led to the defendant's
sending a circular letter to awaken the interest and secure
the help of all so situated. This, as the record shows,
had the effect to -invoke offers of testimony on the critical
p6ints in 'the case from the unlicensed part of the trade.
The plaintiff adduced a few witnesses in rebuttal as to
particular details and the same expert as in chief. The
plaintiff's case as presented on the record is largely the
presumption of validity and novelty attaching to the
patent and such evidence as comes from defendant's witnesses. A case that can be made oui in all its elements
by cross-examination of opposing witnesses is a strong
case. Implication of facts and conditions falling from the
mouths of witnesses when only collateral to the exact
point of inquiry for which-they are called is generally the
most trustworthy evidence because the result of the natural, so to say-, subconsciois adherence to truth uninfluenced by a knowledge or perception of the bearing of the
implication on the ultimate issue in the' case.
A thorough examination of the whole voluminous record produces a satisfying conviction, first, that for years
news print paper makers and manufacturers of papermaking machinery were engaged in seeking a method of
increasing the speed of the news print machines, and that
they had succeeded by improving the stock and by
strengthening the parts in bringing the speed of the
wire and the delivered paper up to between five and six
hundred feet a minute, but that, when these high speeds
were attained and maintained for any length of time,
though they served to enable manufacturers to advertise
such maximums, their 'continued and regular operation
showed defects in the paper which were only overcome
by a reduction of speed to something less than five hundred feet. As against advertisement, and the exuberant

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S

memory of witnesses, the actual contemporaneous record
of daily figures of production whenever brought to light
justifies this conclusion. A leading manufacturer, one of
the most enthusiastic witnesses on the subject of speed
before Eibel, produced a memorandum of a visit he made
in October, 1904, less than two years before Eibel's application, to see the operation of a machine he had manufactured which he called "the banner installation of the
world and made an entry in his diary, "Grand Sight475 feet." There is the usual unconscious straining of
memory without written record carried back ten or fifteen
years, but the evidence on the whole is satisfying that the
practical speed for the regular production of good news
print paper never much exceeded that speed which had
gratified the pride of this witness. A typical case is in
that of machines made by Bagley & Sewall, large manufacturers of paper-making machines for the Laurentide
Paper Company. The president of Bagley & Sewall testified that the speed of the machine was 552 feet a minute
"with satisfactory paper, and that he visited Laurentide
in October,. 1904, 'and counted the revolutions himself.
He produced a letter Trom Mr. Chahoon, of the Laurentide Company, of about" the same date, confirming his
statement of the count and the satisfactory product, and
an advertisement of Bagley & Sewall to the same effect
of January, 1905. In rebuttal, a monthly record of the
work of the machine is produced by the foreman at Laurentide for this same machine from January, 1905, to
December, 1906, showing the speed to vary from a maximum of 518 in 1905 to 475 in 1908, with a general average
of less than 500, and an explanation that the high speeds
did not make a good product and were reduced. Our
conclusion is confirmed, and indeed the importance of the
issuew-of fast as to maximum speed before Eibel is minimized, by the circumstance, uncontroverted, that the owners of these fastest machines, at once upon Eibel's publi-

EIBEL CO. v. PAPER CO.
45

Opinion of the Court.

cation of his discovery, adopted his pitch and increased
their product.
What Eibel tried to do was to enable the paper maker to
go to six or seven hundred feet and above in speed and
retain a good product. Did he do it? Eibel was the
superintendent of a paper mill at Rhinelander, Wisconsin.
Before August, 1906, he raised the pitch of the wire from
two or three inches to twelve inches and greatly increased
the speed with a satisfactory product, and in that month
he applied for a patent. The defendant's witnesses without exception refer tofthat disclosure as something that
surprised and startled the paper-making trade. It spread,
to use the expression of one witness, like wild fire. There
were those who hesitated to take the venturesome step to
give such an unheard-of pitch to the wire and waited until
others assumed the risk, but the evidence is overwhelming
that within a short interval of a year or two all of the fast
machines were run with wires at a pitch of twelve inches
and that this pitch has been increased to fifteen and
eighteen and even twenty-four inches, that the speed of
the machines with satisfactory product has increased to
six hundred, six hundred and fifty, and even seven hundred feet, with plans now even for a thousand feet and
that the makers of two-thirds of the print paper of the
country are licensees of Eibel.
Defendant attempts to break the effect of this evidence
by showing that five of the largest paper manufacturers
who are licensees of Eibel are also shareholders n the
Eibel Process Company, the plaintiff, and that they make
2200 tons of the 5000 tons of paper made daily in the
United States. This circumstance seems to have had influence with the Circuit Court of Appeals. There are,
however, ten other paper-making companies, not shareholders, who are license~s and use the Eibel pitch, and
whose aggregate production is 1200 tons a day; and what
is equally significant, thirteen other companies have con-

56

OCTQBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of-the Court.

261 U. S.

tributed.to a fund to help'in resisting the establishment of
the right of- Eibel to claim a royalty for the use .of this
high or substantial pitch of the wire in the making of
paper. Presumably they too find it wise to use the Eibel
pitch. The paper makers in this country who do not use
the Eibel pitch, therefore, are few. It can hardly be that
dividends on the shares of stock in the Eibel Company
held by the five large companies would furnish motive
enough for them to continue to belicensees and to use
something that wts not of great advantage to-them iui
their chief business of making paper; and ceitainly nosuch motive would explain the action of the licensees who'
are not stockholders or-that of the infringers, in continuing. to use the Eibel pitch. It shouldbe said that one of
the large manufacturers of paper-making machinery
called by the defendant said that since 1907 he hid not
installed a single machine without the Eibel pitch.
The fact that the Eibel pitch has thus been generally
adopted in the paper-making business and that the daily
product in paper making has thus been increased at least
twenty per cent. over that which had been achieved before Eibel is very weighty evidence to sustain the presumption from his patent that what he discovered and
invented was new and useful. Of course, although very
persuasive, it is not conclusive and may be explained..
This brings us to the consideration of the evidence of the
prior art and the .ontention of the defendant, and the
conclusion of the court below, that the step-taken by
Eibel, so far is he took one, was a mere obvious applicaflon of fully developed devices in the prior art.
Eibel in his patent gives this measure' of the prior art:
"The Fourdrinier wire has usually been arranged to
move in a horizontal plane, although I am aware that
means have been provided for adjusting the breast-roll
end of the wiri to different elevations, usually below the
level, to provide for running with different grades of

EIBEL CO. v. PAPER CO.
45

Opinion of the Court.

stock-as, for instance, with. quick stock and slow stock;
but so far as I am aware the making-wire has always had
to perform the work of drawing along the stockr and as
the wire moved much faster -than the stock the stock
waved or rippled badly, near the breast roll end of the
wire, which gradually diminished until an equilibrium
was established and a smooth, even, and- glassy surface
presented, and not until the waving or rippling ceased did
the fibers lay down uniformly and produce a well-formed
sheet of paper. The machine has been run necessarily: at
a slow rate of speed to give ample time for the water, to
escape and for the fibers to lay down so. as to make a
uniform sheet, and in case the time was insufficient the
breast-roll end of the wire has been lowered still farther
until the desired result was accomplished. In accordance
with my invention I operate entirely above the level to
cause the stock to travel by gravity at a velocity approximately equal to the speed of the making-wire, which I
believe to be a new principle of operation."
It is important that the stock when it reaches the
"Dandy" roll beyond the first suction box of the machine, shall be, on the one hand, free enough of water to
be a formed sheet and take an impression from the Dandy
roll, and on the other that it shall not be so dry that it
will not retain the impression. Paper of such a heavy
composition of fibre and water that it holds water long
is said to be slow stock. Paper of lighter and thinner
composition parting with water easily and drying quickly
is called quick stock. Various means were adopted to
give the stock the proper degree of dryness at the Dandy
roll, usually by adjustment of the composition of the
-stock. What Eibel describes in this reference was another means. It was not widely used however. It was
a slight depression or elevation in the wire at the breast
roll so that slow stock could be made to run up hill from
tfie flow box to the Dandy roll, lengthening the time of

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

the movement and thus giving more opportunity in its
progress for the needed draining of the stock. On the
other hand, fast or thin stock from which the water flowed
too easily could be made to retain sufficient water by
hastening its progress to the Dandy roll by the down-hill
tilt of the wire. This tilt was obtained by raising the
breast roll end of the wire either by putting shimming
blocks under that end of the machine or by special devices
to be described. The sole object was greater or less drainage of stock for the Dandy roll. The Eibel invention is
distinguished from the prior art in two.ways, first, in that
the pitch of the wire was for a different purpose to be
accomplished, not at the Dandy roll some twenty or more
feet from the breast roll, but at a point only nine or ten
feet from there, and, second, by the fact that to achieve
his purpose a high or substantial pitch must be given to
the wire, while only a small or trivial pitch was needed
for the drainage of the prior art.r
This difference in purpose and degree of pitch between
-Eibel's device and the prior art is quiteclearly shown by
reference to a patent granted to Barrett and Horne, assignors to J. H. Home & Sons, one of the important
manufacturers of paper machinery of the country, in
1899. Their specifications showed a device capable of
elevating the breast roll less than three inches and its
sole purpose was for drainage. Their specifications say:
'It is true that defendant's expert Carter points out that in some
of the machines of the prior art in which means were provided for
tilting up the wire, the tilting was confined to that part of the surface
length covered by the shake frame, say 18 feet, and did not extend
to the first suction box, whereas Eibel's tilting involved the entire
surface length of thirty feet. It would follow from this that the
elevation of three inches in such machines would mean a greater angle
of declination than three inches for the full surface length and that
the disparity between three inches and twelve inches was not so great
as the figures would lead one to think. But whatever difference this
might make, the fact remains that Eibef's pitch was substantially
greater than anything in the prior art.

EIBEL CO. v. PAPER CO.
45

Opinion of the Court.

"In certain kinds of pulp, notably the wood pulp which
is now largely used in making paper, the water drains
away very rapidly, so that the pulp may become nearly
dry before it leaves the shake-frame, and thus not be
properly laid when it reaches the rollers. This tendency
may be obviated to a considerable extent by downwardly
inclining the shake frame toward the rollers, so that the
water tends to travel along with the pulp and will not,
therefore, drain out through the wire so rapidly. It is
further desirable that the amount of inclination or slope
should l e variable, so as to adapt the machine for pulp
of different kinds or grades."
The Bayliss Austin machine, one of three chiefly relied
on to show prior use, was made by the Horne Company
and was designed by Barrett and Home on the model of
this patent. It is very clear from an examination of the
design and contract for this machine that the pitch of the
wire in it could not have exceeded three inches and that
it was used for drainage. Other patents were set up in
defense, some of them showing devices for raising the
breast roll and wire above the level, and lowering them
below the level for the purpose of drainage. The angle
of elevation and depression was always small. There was
a constant straining by the witnesses for the defense to
increase the elevation before Eibel. On the direct examination they began with a positive assertion that a pitch
of four, five, and even six inches, had been used in certain
machines before Eibel's time, but written records, contracts and specifications brought out on cross-examination
show nothing more than three inches provided for purpose
of drainage and not more than that was used. This is
not to say that witnesses in the face of such records did
not testify to a higher elevation, but -in such cases the
amount of elevation rested in memory running back more
than ten or fifteen years, a memory stimulated by the
subsequent high pitches of Eibel and the retrospect of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

progress that now seems so easy and clear to every one.
There was, too, always indefiniteness as to when such increase in elevation of the wire had taken place, whether
before or after August, 1906, Eibel's date, and there was
no evidence of weight, we think, after a full examination
of the record, sufficient to justify a finding that such. elevations had ever exceeded three inches before his application.
This is confirmed by the fact that greater elevation was
not needed for the purpose of drainage for which it was
devised and used. It is true that some witnesses testify
that they realized before Eibel's application that speeding
up the stock to equal velocity with the wire would solve
the difficulty and aid the speed. But there is not a single
written record, letter or specification of prior date to
Eibel's application that discloses any such discovery by
anyone, or the use of the pitch of the wire to aid the speed
of the machine. The oral evidence on this point falls far
short of being enough to overcome the presumption of
novelty from the granting of the patent. The temptation
to remember in such cases and the ease with which honest
witnesses can convince themselves after many years of
having had a conception at the basis of a valuable patent,
are well known in this branch of law, and have properly
led to a rule that evidence to prove prior discovery must
be clear and satisfactory. Barbed Wire Patent Case, 143
U. S. 275, 284; Loom Co. v. Higgins, 105 U. S. 580, 591.
Indeed when we consider the indisputable fact that Eibel's
successful experiment at Rhinelander and his application
for a patent surprised the whole paper trade, and that for
a short time many held back from risking so radical a
change and then all adopted it, oral evidence that some
persons had discovered the source of trouble and the
means of remedying it some years before Eibel is incredible. We are confirmed in this conclusion by the
finding of Judge Hale in the District Court which is not

EIBEL CO. v. PAPER CO.
45

Opinion of the Court.

offset by the reversal of his decree in the Circuit Court
of Appeals because that court seems to have reached its
conclusion chiefly on other grounds yet to be considered.
The defendant's counsel contend that the specifications
of the Eibel patent require that the only force to be used
in giving-speed to the stock shall be the force of gravity
created by the angle of down hill inclination of the wire.
They say that the patentee mentions no other means of
acceleration, that he must be confined to this, and that a
machine which uses other -factors for this purpose does
not infringe. We do not understand the Circuit Court
of Appeals to go quite so far, but it does seem to give a
construction requiring the force of gravity caused by the
pitch of the wire to be the predominating cause of the
increased speed of the stock. The factors of speed of the
stock in such a machine before the factor of pitch was
applied to increase it, were the head or hydraulic pressure
of the stock in the flow box behind the slice, imparting
movement to it as it came out on to the wire under the
lifted slice, and the carrying effect of the moving wire
upon the fluid stock as it fell upon the wire and proceeded
gradually to form into a web as the fibres were laid and
the water drained.
Many calculations were made by defendant's expert
Carter based on the laws of hydraulic pressure and flow,
to show that under varying conditions of head and pitch
and the speed of the wire, the chief factor would be head,
the next the "drag" or carrying effect of the wire and the
least in degree and importance in making the velocity of
the stock and the wire equal would be the pitch, and that
Eibel's invention could not be present because the" drag"
of the wire and its influence upon the speed of the stock
must be eliminated under Eibel's specifications. We do
not so understand it. As the stock descends upon the
wire with the head of the flow box, it is thin and liquid,
the wire at its greater speed necessarily imparts addi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

tional speed to the stock and in its unformed fluidity the
added speed does not disturb or ripple the stock to the injury of the process of paper making. It is only after the
stock proceeds a third or a half of the surface length of
the wire that the point is reached where the overspeed of
the drag becomes troublesome in the felting or formation
of the web of the pulp. Before that point is reached, the
"drag" may be useful in bringing the speed of the stock
nearer to that of the wire without injury. The truth
seems to be, and this is brought out with force in the
testimony of the defendant's expert witness Livermore,
that while it is possible to calculate to a nicety the velocity
of the free flowing liquid stock due to head and pitch,
when unaffected by drainage, variation in viscosity and
fluidity and the like, yet when these conditions are present, as they always are, and the other less calculable factor of the drag of the wire enters the problem, there is no
means, short of actual experiment, to enable one to anticipate results and it is quite impossible to apportion to
each factor its real influence. This fact reflects on the
question whether Eibel's discovery was invention rather
than the mere obvious and simple application of known
natural forces.
The defendant introduced expert evidence to show that
with a head. of 21/ inches in the flow box and a speed of
585 feet to the minute in the wire, and excluding the
factor of "drag" of the wire, it would require an elevatiorn
of 48 inches to make up the difference in speed of the
stock given by the head and the speed of the wire at a
distance 10 feet from the point of discharge on the wire.
The conclusion drawn from this seems to be that as no
practical machine uses 48 inches pitch, the Eibel invention has, never been used or infringed. Disregarding its
error in omitting necessary factors already, adverted to,
this reasoning seems to us to depend on too narrow a construction of the patent.

EIBEL CO. v. PAPER CO.
45

63

Opinion of the Court.

In administering the patent law the court first looks
into the art to find what the real merit of the alleged discovery or invention is and*whether it has advanced the
art substantially. If it has done so, then the court is
liberal in its construction of the patent to secure to the
inventor the reward he deserves. If what he has done
works only a slight step forward and thatwhich he says is
a discovery is on the border line between mere mechanical
change and real invention, then his patent, if sustained,
will be given a narrow scope and infringement will be
found only in approximate copies of the new device. It
is this differing attitude of the courts toward genuine discoveries and slight improvements that reconciles the
sometimes apparently conflicting instances of' crnstruing
specifications and the finding of equivalents in .alleged infringements. In the case before us, for the reasons we
have already reviewed, we think that Eibel made a very
useful discovery which has substantially advanced-the art.
His was not a pioneer patent, creating a new art; but a
patent which is only an improvement on an old machine
may be very meritorious and entitred to liberal treatment.
Indeed, when one notes the crude working of machines of
famous pioneer inventions and discoveries, and compares
them with the modern machines and processes exemplifying the principle of the pioneer discovery, one hesitates
in the division of credit between the original inventor and
the improvers; and certainly finds no reason to withhold
from the really meritorious improver, the application of
the rule " ut res magis valeat quam pereat," which has
been sustained in so many cases in this Court. Winans v.
Denmead, 15 How. 338, 341; Coming v. Burden, 15 How.
265, 269; Turrill v. Railroad Co., 1 WAll. 491, 510; Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788, 795; McClain v. Ortmayer, 141 U. S. 419, 425.
Eibel was an avowed improver, not in the art of paper
making generally, but upon a well-known and universally

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

used machine. In that machine, the speed of the stock
which was the subject matter of his improvement, had
always been controlled by two factors, the head of the
stock in the flow box, and the carrying effect of the under
moving wire. He says nothing in his specifications to exclude these factors, he merely adds another factor of speed
to secure the equality of speed of the stock with the wire.
He says:"For the purpose of increasing the speed of the machine
to the maximum I maintain the breast-roll end of the
making-wire at a high elevation above the level, so that
the stock travels by gravity much faster than the makingwire ordinarily runs for a certain grade of stock, andfI then
increase the speed of the machine to such extent as to
bring the rate of speed of the making-wire up to the speed
of the rapidly-moving stock,-and as a result the capacity
of the machine is largely increased."
We agree fully with Judge Hale in the District Court in
his comment on this:
"The process invented by him (Eibel) begins to operate
after the stock has entered upon the wire. His apparent
9ttempt was to get rid of bubbles and wrinkles, before he
got to the place on the machine where the paper is formed.
To do this, he allowed gravity to work with 'drag' and
with'head.' He harnessed all the elements he could find.
He brought gravity in with the other elements, and so
brought the speed of the stock up to equality with that of
the wire. By this means he achieved high speed and also
freed the stock on the wire from waves and ripples." 267
Fed. 855.
The Circuit Cout of Appeals questions the assumption
that gravity was anew factor with Eibel, because the head
of the flow box is only another application of the force of
gravity. This is a mere criticism of a term which whether
accurate or not is not misleading. What Eibel was dealing with in his patent as a new factor was the additional

EIBEL CO. v. PAPER CO.
45

Opinion 6f the Court.

force acquired by the pitch -of the wire and that he called
gravity, and Judge Hale in the-passage quoted uses the
word with the same meaning and without any confusion
to the reader.
We think, then, that the Eibel patent is to be construed
to cover a Fourdrinier machine in which the pitch of the
wire is used as an appreciable factor, in addition to the
factors of speed theretofore known in the machine, in
bringing about an approximation to the equal velocity of
the stock 'and the wire at the point where but for such
approximation the injurious disturbance and ripples of
the stock would be produced.
The next objection to the patent which prevailed in the
Circuit Court of Appeals is that its terms are too vague
because the extent of the factor of pitch is not defined
except by the terms "substantial" and "high ". The
figure accompanying the specification and- illustrating the
improvement indicates an angle of four per cent. or an
elevation of 12 inches, and the reference to the small elevations for drainage shown in earlier devices indicates
that the patentee had in mind elevations substantial as
compared with them in order to achieve his purpose of
substantially increasing the speed of the stock. It was
difficult for him to be more definite, due to the varying
conditions of speed and stock existing in the operations of
Fourdrinier machines and the necessary variation in the
pitch to be used to accomplish the purpose of his invention. Indefiniteness is objectionable because the patent
does not disclose to the public-how the discovery, if there
is one, can be made useful and how its infringement may
be avoided. We do not think any such consequences are
involved here. This patent and its specifications were
manifested to readers who were skilled in the art of paper
making and versed in the use of the Fourdrinier machine.
The evidence discloses that one, so skilled, had no diifi-

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

culty, when his attention was called to their importance,
in fixing the place of the disturbance and ripples to be
removed, or in determining what was the substantial pitch
needed to equalize the speeds of the stock and wire at that
place. The immediate and successful use of the pitch for
this purpose by the owners of the then fastest machines
and by the whole trade is convincing proof that one versed
in paper making could find in Eibel's specifications all he
needed to know, to avail himself of the invention. Expressions quite as indefinite as "high" and " substantial"
in describing an invention or discovery in patent specifications and claims have been recognized by this Court as
sufficient. In Tilghman v. Proctor, 102 U. S. 707, the
claim sustained was for "the manufacturing of fat acids
and glycerine from fatty bodies by the action of water at a
high temperature and pressure." See also Rubber Co. v.
Goodyear,9 Wall. 788, 794; Mowry v. Whitney, 14 Wall
620, 629; Lawther v. Hamilton, 124 U. S. 1, 9; Carnegie
Steel Co. v. CambriaIron Co., 185 U. S. 403, 436; Abercrombie & Fitch Co. v. Baldwin, 245 U. S. 19.8, 205.
It is contended on behalf of the defendant that whether
Barrett and Home perceived the advantage of speeding
up the stock to an equality with the wire, yet the necessary effect of their devices was to achieve that result and
therefore their machine anticipated Eibel. In the first
place we find no evidence that any pitch of the wire, used
before Eibel, had brought about such a result as that
sought by him, and in the second place if it had done so
under unusual conditions, accidental results, not intended
and not appreciated, do not constitute anticipation.
Tilghman v. Proctor, 102 U. S. 707, 711; PittsburghReduction Co. v. Cowles Electric Co., 55 Fed. 301, 307; Andrews v. Carman,13 Blatchf. 307, 323.
It is next objected that the alleged invention covers
only a matter of degree in pitch which can not be the
subject of a patent. The prior art showed the application

EIBEL CO. v. PAPER CO.
45

Opinion of the Court.

of gravity by use of the pitch of the wire to the improvement of the Fourdrinier machine and-Tibel, it is said,
merely increased degree of pitch and gravity for the
same general purpose. We think this attack upon the
patent can not prevail. Eibel's high or substantial pitch
was directed toward a wholly different object fiom that
of the prior art., He-was seeking thereby to remove the
disturbance and ripples in the formation of the stock
about ten feet from the discharge, while the slight pitches
of the prior art were planned to overcome the dryness in
the formed web of the stock at double the distance from
the discharge. It would seem that the greater speed of
the stock produced by Eibel would make difficult the
joint application of the principles of Eibel and Barrett
and Home, and that the function of adjusting the drainage for the Dandy roll must be carried on by some of the
other methods known to the art when Eibel's pitch is
used. But however this may be, the object of the one
was entirely different from that of the other. Livermore
an expert witness called by the defendant, when asked
the question whether the purpose of the Barrett and
Home patent had anything in common with the theory
of the Eibel patent answered:
"I should say nU. It looks to me as if Barrett and
Home referred to the adjustment of inclination with one
effect in mind, and that Eibel referred to like adjustment
with another effect in mind. . .
In this particular
case, the two effects have, so far as I can see, no special
correlation to one another, and an adjustment made with
one effect in mind might or might not produce a desirable
effect as to the other function or phenomenon."
In considering this phase of the controversy, we must
not lose sight of the fact that one essential part of Eibel's
discovery was that the trouble causing the defective paper
product under high machine speed was in the disturbance
and ripples some ten feet from the discharge and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

they'were due to the unequal speeds of stock and wire at
that point and could be removed by equalizing the speeds.
The invention was not the mere use of a high or substantial pitch to remedy a known source of trouble. It was
the discovery of the source not before known and the
application of the remedy for which Eibel was entitled to
be rewarded in his patent. Had the trouble which Eibel
sought to remedy been the well known difficulty of too
great wetness or dryness of the web at the Dandy roll and
had he found that a higher rather than a low pitch would
do that work better,-a patent for this improvement might
well have been attacked on the ground that he was seekifig monopoly for a mere matter of degree. But that is
not this case. On the other hand, if all knew that the
source of the trouble Eibel was seeking to remedy was
where he found it to be and also knew that increased
speed of the stock would remedy it, doubtless it would
not have been invention on his part to use the pitch of
the wire to increase the speed of the stock when such
pitch had been used before to do the same thing although
for a different purpose and in a less degree. We can not
agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that the causal
connection between the unequal speeds of the stock and
the wire, and the disturbance and rippling of the stock,
and between the latter and the defective quality of the
paper in high speeds of the machine was so obvious that
perception of it did not involve discovery which will
support a patent. The fact that in a decade of an eager
quest for higher speeds tiis-.nportant chain of circumstances had escaped observation, the fact that no one had
applied a remedy for the consequent trouble until Eibel,
and ,the final fact that when he made known his discovery,
all adopted his remedy, leave no doubt in our minds that
what he saw and did was not obvious and did involve discovery and invention.
The Circuit Court of Appeals dwells on the fact that
the use of the pitch of the wire was not really the intro-

EIBEL CO. v. PAPER CO.
45

Opinion of the Court.

duction of a new factor in the solution of the problem
because the same result wduld have followed if the head
of the flow box had been made greater in order to increase
by gravity the speed of the stock. Doubtless this could
have been done. There were difficulties, however, in
such a method when Eibel's application was filed, because
in the then machines the flow box was supported by an
apron over the wire and the necessary addition to the
weight of the stock in the flow box, in increasing the
head, would have interfered with the free working of the,
wire. Since that time an improvement has been adopted
by which the flow box does not rest on the wire and
additional head can be imparted to the stock. The defendant invites attention to the fact that one or two
paper makers are increasing this head and giving up the
pitch, for the purpose of increasing the speed of the
stock. We do not see that these circumstances in any
way affect the validity of the Eibel patent. If defendant
or others can do -what Eibel accomplished in another
way, and by means he did not include in his specifications
and claims, i. e., by additional head and the abandonment
of a substantial pitch, they are at liberty to do so and
avoid infringement.
We come finally to the question of infringement. If
the Eibel patent is to be construed as we have construed
it, there can be no doubt that the defendant uses the
Eibel invention. The device which the defendant uses
for tilting the wire, i. e;, by shimming blocks, and that for
regulating and increasing the speed of the wire, are plainly
equivalents of the same elements in the new combination
which Eibel shows in his drawings and specifications. The
defendant uses a Fourdrinier machine having the breast
roll end of the paper-making wire maintained at an elevation of 15 inches above the level whereby the stock is
caused to travel by gravity rapidly in the direction of
the movement of the wire and at a speed approximately

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

equal to the speed of the wire substantially as described.
This brings the defendant's machines within the first claim
of the patent if 15 inches is a substantial elevation of the
making wire, as all the witnesses concede that it is. The
same conclusion must be reached as to the second claim
because the defendant uses a machine "having the breastroll end of the paper-making wire maintained at a high
elevation, whereby the stock is caused to travel by gravity
faster than the normal speed of the wire for a certain
grade of stock, and having means for increasing the speed
of the machine to cause the wire to travel at substantially
the same rate of speed as the rapidly-moving stock, substantially as described." The same thing is true of the
third claim.
Question has been made whether these three claims are
for a machine or a process. .We think they are claims for
a machine, i. e., for an improvement on a machine, and
that the devices for such improvement, to wit, the elevation by a screw or other equivalent method, and the control of the speed of the wire, are shown by the specifications and the figures, together with a sufficient description of their operation.
The seventh and eighth claims are for the same improvement with the suction boxes changed from their
usual position in the unimproved machine to make them
effectively function on the pitched wire. They are machine claims and are infringed by the defendant. Their
new adjustment is part of a new combination and the
words substantially as describ d limit them to a combination including the elements included in the first three
claims.
Claim No. 12 is as follows:
"12. In a Fourdrinier machine, a downwardly-moving
paper-making wire, the declination and speed of which
are so regulated that the velocity of the stock down the
declining wire, caused by gravity, is so related to the

EIBEL CO. v. PAPER CO.
45

Opinion of the Court.

velocity of the wire in the same direction, that waves and
ripples on the stock are substantially avoided and the
fibers deposited with substantial uniformity on the wire,
substantially as, described."
This comes nearer to being a process claim but whether
it is or not the defendant infringes it.
The evidence discloses that after the suit was brought,
the defendant reduced the pitch of one of its machines
to six inches and the iontention of defendant is that the
machine ran as well and gave as good results as when its
pitch was'15 inches. We are not called upon to decide
whether this contention can be sustained because the
reduction was after the bill was filed.. It may be noted,
however, that the admissions of witnesses seem to show
that this reduction was. made for purposes of the suit
and that immediately after the defendant won the suit
in the Circuit Court of Appeals, it restored the pitch of
this machine to 15 inches, and wheri the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals proyed not to be final, the wire
was lowered again to a 6-inch pitch. -Much evidence was
taken and much discussion has followed upon the point
whether a 6-inch pitch accomplishing in whole or in part
what Eibel sought to do would infringe a patent for a
substantial pitch. We do not find it necessary to pass
definitely on the question because it is not before us on
the record, though we can not prevent the natural inferences upon this point to be drawn from the conclusions
we have reached.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals dismissing
the bill is reversed and the decree of the District
Court is affirmed.

