322

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U.S.

Moran, therefore, since April 6, 1917, has been, and is,
entitled to receive a rate of pay corresponding to that of
a chief master at arms in the Navy. Had he been so paid,
and as required by the Act of May 22, 1917, c. 20, 40
Stat. 84, he would have received during the entire period
from August 1, 1917, when he was placed on active-duty,
to December 31, 1918, the sum of $1,790.50. The pay
received by him, however, was $1,530.00, leaving a balance
due of $260.50. For this sum the Court of Claims gave
judgment.
The findings of the court sustain its action, and on the
authority of the Allen Case we affirm the judgment.
Affirmed.
EWEN v. AMERICAN FIDELITY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
-SECOND CIRCUIT.

No, 92.

Argued March 1, 1923.-Decided March 12, 1923.

A surety company organized under Illinois Rev. Stats., 1917, c. 32;
§ 102f, et seq., is thereby expressly made subject to the Act of April
18, 1872, governing corporations for pecuniary profit, and under
§ 12 of that act, its dissolution does not take away or impair any
remedy given against the corporation for liabilities incurred
previously to its dissolution. P. 324.
Held, therefore, that a New York attachment suit bgainst an Illinois
surety company did not fall by reason of the company's dissolution in proceedings in Illinois and lapse of time, claimed to have
extinguished.the corporation for all purposes.
271 Fed. 848, reversed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals affirming a judgment for the respondent in an
action brought against it as surety on an undertaking in
attachment.
Mr. Wi7liam R. Wilder, with whom Mr. Henry E. Davis
and Mr. John Ewen were on the briefs, for petitioner.

EWEN v. AMER. FIDELITY CO.
322

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Jo~eph M. Proskauer, with whom Mr. Abram
I. Elkus and Mr. Wesley S. Sawyer were on. the brief,
for respondent..
MR. JusTICE HOLMES delivered the opmi'i6fi of the
Court.
This is an action upon' an undertaking .to pay the
amount of any judgment that might be recovered, by one
Mackey in a suit against the Illinois Surety Company, not
exceeding $7,500 and interest, the contract being made
by the present defendant in order to dissolve an attachment in that suit. That suit was begun in May, 1915, in
New York. Mackey recovered a judgment .for a much
larger sum on June 21, 1919, and assigned.the same and.
this undertaking.to the present plaintiff. The defence is
that the Illinois Surety Company, an Illinois corporation, had ceased to exist before, the. judgment was recovered, and that the judgment against it was void. On
this ground judgment was given for, the defendant in the
District Court and the judgment was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
On April 19, 1916, a majority of the stockholders of the
Surety Company filed a bill in Illinois alleging that the
Company was insolvent and praying that it be restrained
froin further prosecution of its business, that a receiver
be appointed and that upon final hearing a decree might
be entered dissolving the Company and providing for the
distribution of its assets. The answer of the Company
was filed with the bill. It admitted the allegations and
submitted to the jurisdiction of the Court. On the same
day an order was entered "without bond from the complainants and until the further order of the court"
restraining the Company from further prosecution of its
business. Later on the same day another decree appointed a receiver to collect the property, with power to
institute and to defend suits and to apply to the Court for

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
261 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

furthei' orders concerning the collection and distribution
of the assets and the closing of the Company's concerns
for which purposes jurisdiction was retained -until final
hearing and settlement of all unfinished business of the
Company and the receivership. The receiver continued
to defend the -above mentioned suit in New York until
about April 28, 1919, when the counsel for the Company
notified the plaintiff that they no longer were authorized
to appear for it; the ground of the notice being an order
of the Court in Illinois that the receiver should discontinue the defence and notify the plaintiff Mackey to file
his claim in that proceeding. (This order imposed no
personal obligation on Mackey as he was not within the
jurisdiction of the Illinois Court.) Thereafter the defendant failed to appear, and upon a report by a referee
the judgment in question was entered on June 21, 1919.
This was more than three years after the Company had
been restrained from transacting business. The defendant says that by the Illinois statutes the Company became extinct in one year, with a continued liability to
creditors of only two years more, and that the last two
years had elapsed.
The Illinois Surety Company was organized under a
general law of Illinois to be found in Hurd's Revised Statutes of Illinois, 1917, c. 32, § 102 f and following. By
§ 14 of the act (Hurd, § 102 s), corporations formed under
it "shall be subject to all laws of this State governing
corporations for pecuniary,-profit, as provided for in an
Act

. . . approved

April" 18,

1872

. . . and

amendments thereto, in force July 1, 1897, and the duties
thereof, and shall have the powers thereof, so far as the
same are not inconsistent with the provisions of this act.
Such Companies shall also be subject to the provisions
and requirements of an Act entitled 'An Act in regard to
the dissolution of Insurance Companies,' approved February 17, 1874." The act last mentioned allows a ma-

EWEN v. AMER. FIDELITY CO.
322-

325

Opinion of the Court.

jority of the stockholders of any Illinois insurance company to apply by petition to close its concerns and
authorizes the Court after due notice to .all the parties
interested to proceed to hear the matter and for reasonable cause to decree a dissolution, § 2. (Hurd, c. 73,
§ 12.) It also provides in the next section that the
charters of all such companies, which either from neglect,
or by vote of iheir members or officers, or in obedience to
the- decree of any Court, have ceased for one year to
transact the business for which they were organized, shall
be deemed extinct, with authority to the Court upon
petition to fix the time within which the companies shall
close their concerns: "Provided, that this section shall
not be construed to relieve any such company from its
liabilities to the assured or any of its creditors," § 3.
(Hurd, § 13.) The fourth section (Hurd, § 14) continues
the companies for two years more for the purpose of
prosecuting and defending suits, &c., but not for that of
going. on with their business. The facts that we have
stated were thought to bring the case within this statute
and so to make the New York judgment void.
We should hesitate long before deciding that the cessation of business for a year under the above mentioned
decree fell within § 3 of the Insurance Act or that the
proviso had no effect upon the following § 4, not to speak
of other difficulties. But it is not necessary to stop at
this point. The Company, as has been shown, was subject also to the laws governing corporations for pecuniary
profit. By § 10 of the Act of April 18, 1872 (Hurd, c. 32,
§ 10) these corporations are continued for two years for
substantially the same purposes as are insurance companies, but it is explicitly provided by § 12 that the dissolution for .any cause shall not take away or impair any
remedy given against such corporation, its stockholders
or officers, for any liabilities incurred previous to its dissolution. The argument seems to us strong that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U.S.

section concerning surety companies quoted at the outset
takes in this § 12 without qualification and, if necessary,
might be said to show that a larger signification should be
given to the proviso quoted from § 3 of the Insurance Act,
at least as applied to this Company. But we are relieved
from an independent consideration of the matter by the
opinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois in Evans v. Ilinois Surety Co., 298 Ill. 101, 106, 107, April 21, 1921, the
very case in which the above mentioned injunction was
issued. On p. 106 it quotes § 12 of the Corporation Act,
and on p. 107, says, "there can be no question but that
the provisions of the General Incorporation Act heretofore quoted, and all its other applicable provisions, apply
to corporations organized under the Surety Act." This
was later than the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals
and appears to us to warrant our taking the same view
without discussion at greater length.
Judgment reversed.
FOX FILM CORPORATION v. KNOWLES ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 310, 311.

Argued February 27, 1923.-Decided March 12, 1923.

1. Under § 24 of the Copyright Act of 1909, which allows renewals
of copyrights subsisting when it went into effect with the proviso
that application shall be made and registered within the. period
of one year prior to expiration of the existing term, an author's
executor may renew, within that year, although the author died
before its commencement, so that the right to file application did
not accrue in his ,lifetime. P. 328.
2. The statute intends that an executor; there being no widow,
widower or child,Whall have the same right as his testator might
have exercised had he continued to survive. P. 329.
3. It is no novelty' for an executor to- be given rights by statute
which his testator could not have exercised while he lived. P. 330.
279 Fed. 1018, reversed.

