NELSON CO. v. UNITED STATES.
16

Opinion of the Court.

the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second
Circuit and direct the dismissal of the bill.
Reversed.
CHARLES NELSON COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 287. Argued January 25, 26, 1923.-Decided February 19,

1923.
A contract for furnishing lumber to the Government at a specified
price contained a clause obliging the contractor to deliver any
quantities ordered in a certain period irrespective of the estimated
quantity named in the contract. Held that the contractor, in
furnishing lumber in excess of that quantity and in accepting the
contract price therefor without protest, knowing that the Government was relying on the contract, waived his right to insist that the
clause was void for lack of mutuality and could not recover the
difference between the contract and higher, 'market prices for the
excess sp furnished. P. 19.
56 Ct. Clins. 448, affirmed.

APPEL from a judgment of the Court of Claims.
Mr. William E. Humphrey and Mr. William C. Prentiss
for appellant.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solieitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States..
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAr delivered the opinion of th
Court.
This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of
Claims dismissing the petition of the plaintiff, .the Charles
Nelson Company, after a hearing of the evidence and
upon findings made. The plaintiff was the lowest and
accepted bidder upon advertised solicitation of the Navy

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion ofthe Court.

261 U.S.

Department for the furnishing and delivery of lumber
at the Puget Sound Navy Yard-for a period ending December 31, 1917. This suit is to recover the sum of
$20,321.33, the amount with interest 'of the difference between the market value and the price bid upon what the
plaintiff claims was an unjust excess over and above the
amount of lumber it should have delivered and that which
at the insistence of the Navy Department it did deliver.
The bids were opened January 3, 1917. The contract
was signed February. 23, 1917. Thereby the plaintiff
agreed to furnish and deliver f. o. b. alongside wharf, navy
yard, Puget Sound, lumber of certain kinds in such quantities and at such times during the period ending December -31, 1917, as the supply officer of the Navy might
direct. "All deliveries to be made promptly and orders
of 50,000 ft. b. m. or less of assorted sizes, not more than
10,000 ft. b. m. of any one size, except with the consent
of the contractor, must be delivered within 10 days after
receipt of order. All other* orders must be delivered
within 25 days after date of receipt of order from the
supply officer." The contract contained this provision
which was evidently taken from the form of bids solicited:
"It shall be distinctly understood and agreed tat it is
the intention of the contract that the contractor shall
furnish and deliver any quantities of Douglas fir which
may be ordered for the naval service at the place named
during the period ending Dec. 31, 1917, irrespective, of
the estimated quantity named, the Government not being
obligated to order any specific quantity of Douglas fir
contracted for."
Then follows:
"Class 5-Continued.
Stock Classification No. 39.
Fir, Douglas, as follows:
1. 1,675,000 feet b. m. (about), of such sizes or. grades
as may be ordered-per M feet."

NELSON CO. v. UNITED STATES.
"17

Opinion of the Court.

The Navy Department on orders placed by it before
December 31, 1917, received from the plaintiff 3,688,259
feet b. m. of Douglas fir. The amount furnished -above
1;675,000 feet was worth at market price, delivered at the
navy yard, $18,310.21 more than the plaintiff was paidtherefor at the prices bid and accepted.
After the execution of -the contract and as a development of the World War the Government entered upon
the building of submarine chasers at this navy yard, a
type of vessel never before built there and much of the
lumber required of the plaintiff -under its contract was
used hi the construction of these vessels.
The plaintiff denies that the writing signed by it was
a binding contract, because there was no mutuality of
obligation. The Government answers this by citing the
case of United States v. Purcell Envelope Co., 249 U. S.
313. In that case the Post Office Department invited
bids "for furnishing stamped envelopes and newspaper
wrappers in such quantities as may be called for by the
department during 'aperiod of four years, beginning on
the first day of October, 1898." The bid of the Purcell
Company was accepted. The-formal contract was signed
by the Company and bond given. Subsequently the*
Postmaster General refused to sign this contract, -and
bought the envelopes and wrapperms elsewhere. This
Court held that the acceptance of the bid made the contract; that the words above quoted must be construed to
mean that the Company should furnish all the envelopes
and wrappers of the specified sizes which the Department
would need during .te four years' period, and that the
Government was as much- bound to take the envelopes
and wrappers as the bidder was bound to furnish them.
Heavy damages for the breach of the contract were
awarded against the United States. But it is to be observed that there was in the contract or invitation for
bids no express denial of the obligation of the Post Office

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

Department to take the envelopes in that case, so that
the question of a lack of mutuality did not arise in the
Purcell Case as it does here.
But we are not obliged definitely to pass upon the
question whether the instrument relied on by the Government constituted a contract binding on the plaintiff for
the whole amount ordered at the price bid, because under
the findings of the Court of Claims, the plaintiff must be
held to have waived any right to claim more than the
price it bid for any part of the lumber it furnished.
The findings show that the plaintiff did not furnish the
lumber itself but relied on two so-called subsidiary companies to do so. The manager of one of the companies,
the Crown Lumber Company, was Scott. He was also a
stockholder and officer in the plaintiff. Scott received an
order. for 1,675,000 feet b. m. of lumber from the plaintiff
to be- delivered to the navy yard. In May, there was
delay in deliveries by the Crown Lumber Company of
which the navy yard commandant made complaint to the
plaintiff by telegram, to which plaintiff replied referring
the commandant to Scott. Having delivered 950,000 feet,
and accepted orders in addition thereto of 1,186,000 feet,
Scott on May 21st, wrote to the navy yard supply officer
calling attention to the fact that the orders received
unfilled were for 1,186,000 feet whereas there were only
725,000 feet due on the original contract for 1,675,000
feet, and asking him to say which of the orders he wished
to withdraw. It appeared that Scott was not then advised of the terms of the contract. The supply officer
replied quoting from the contract the clause quoted
above, refusing to withdraw any orders and insisting on
fulfillment of all orders issued and to be issued. A copy
of the letter was sent to plaintiff at its office in San Francisco. After further correspondence in which the supply
officer threatened the plaintiff to buy in the open market
against its account, the Crown Lumber Company by

NELSON CO. v. UNITED STATES.
17

Opinion of the Court.

Scott, June 7th, accepted another order "under protest,
especially as to delivery date." On June 11th, Scottaccepted another order "under protest." On June 26*th
and July 2nd he accepted other orders "under protest,
especially as to delivery." In June, Scott and Jackson,
vice-president of the plaintiff, held a conference with the
supply officer at the navy yard to discuss the failure to,
keep up with the deliveries as the Government needed
them. During this conference Scott again protested at
being compelled to deliver any more than 1,675,000 feet at
the contract price. The supply officer stood upon the
contract and made no promise to pay more than the contract price. Scott testified that in spite of the letter sent
him by the supply officer, he did not know, until the
next September, the terms of the contract except from the
insufficient memoriandum of order sent him by the plaintiff company soon after the contract was signed. The
Court of Claims finds.that it did not appear that Scott
was directed by the Company to make such a protest as at
the June meeting or that he was acting within his authority in so doing. On June 18th, the plaintiff company
wrote the supply officer as follows:
"Dear Sir: Contract 28942. We have for acknowledgment your letter of the 14th, in which you transmit
instructions received from the Bureau of Supplies and
Accounts, Navy Department, Washington, D. C., in
which you are instructed as follows:
"'Contract 28942, if contractor fails to make deliv.ery,
pu chase authorized as requested.'
"May we be permitted to state that it has never been
our intention or aim to fail to make delivery of your requirements as we may be committed to under the contract
above quoted? - Mr. A. A. Scott, our resident agent on
Puget Sound, has been instructed to give your business
the right of way, both at the Mukilteo and Port Angeles
plants.
-

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

"Mr. H. W. Jackson, our vice president, was on the
Sound recently, and he states that at both mills nothing
is left undone in order to prqduce the lumber that you
have ordered under the contract.
"By way of further explanation we might say that
when we entered into this contract with your department
we never dreamt that we would be expected to deliver
extraordinary quantities of clear lumber of long lengths,
such as planking, decking, etc., within the time limits
specified in the contract. In connection with these orders
we feel that we are entitled to some consideration and a
little leniency. The contract itself states that we are
committed to making deliveries on your orders 50 M feet
per B. M. or less of assorted sizes, not more than 10
M feet B. M. of any one size except with the contractor's
consent, Which must be delivered within ten days after
date of receipt of order, and that all other orders must
be delivered within twenty-five days after date of receipt
of order from- the supply officey. Therefore we submit
that when you order 100 M feet of decking or ship lumber
of long lengths and ask us to furnish same within ten
days.you are requiring more of us than is specified in the
written contract.
"For this special material, if you were to buy this in
the open market to-day, you probably would penalize us
$10.00 per M. We feel sure that it is not the desire of
your department to arbitrarily penalize us to that extent;
in view of the fact that we are doing our utmost to execute your orders within the time limits.
"We feel th at we are not responsible for the extraordinary conditions which have arisen since the -contract
was executed. We are reliably informed that the War
Department has canceled their contracts and is now redistributing their requirements, having in view existing
conditions. We also feel that your department should
interpret our engagement in the same way. We trust you

NELSON CO. v. UNITED STATES.
17

Opinion of the Court.

will accept this communication in the spirit in which it
is se(it. We are not asking to be relieved of any responsibility, but rather we submit the facts with a view of enlisting your cooperation to assist us in completing our
efigagements."
The Court of Claims further. found that "no protest
against furnishing more than 1,675,000 feet of lumber
under the contract was ever made by the plaintiff company itself or any of its officers," and the VII finding was
as follows:
"The plaintiff company furnished to the defendant on
orders placed by the defendant under contract 28942,
3,688,259 feet of lumber, for which it was paid at the contract price, and it did not at the time of any payment
make to the United States any protest against payment
at that price, and so far as the United States was informed
such payments were accepted as in full.
"The amount of lumber furnished over and above
1,675,000 feet was Worth at market price, delivered at the
navy yard, $18,310.21 more than the plaintiff was paid
therefor at contract price."
On these findings we can see no escape for the plaintiff
from acquiescence by its conduct in the price bid for the
whole amount of lumber delivered.
The plaintiff relies on the opinion of this Court in
Freund v. United States, 260 U. S.60. The facts of that
case are very different from this. They involved conduct
on the part of the representatives of the Government -of
cuestionable fairness toward the contractors and showed
no such acquiescence ,and absence.of pro.test as here appear.
It may be as counsel suggest that the plaintiff's course
was influenced by- a patriotic wish to help the Government when it was engaged in war. If so, it was to be
commended. But this can not change the legal effect of
its evident acquiescence seen in its letter of June 18th

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S

and its, failure to protest thereafter and to put the Government on notice that it intended to claim a recovery
on a quantum valebat when it was delivering the extra
two million feet of lumber and receiving the payments
therefor from the Government at the prices named in the
bid. The judgment of the Court of Claims is

Affirmed.
CROWN DIE & TOOL COMPANY v. NYE TOOL &
MACHINE WORKS.
CERTIORARI TO THM CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH: CIRCUIT.

No. 240. Argued January 17, 18, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. A suit based on an alleged assignment of a patent right, involving
the validity of the assignment under the patent laws, is within the
jurisdiction of the District Court as a suit arising under those laws.
P. 33.
2. The mere right to exclude others from making, using or vending
a patented invention is not such an interest as may be assigned
under the patent laws, and an attempted transfer thereof as against
a particular person with right to enjoin his future infringements
and collect damages therefor, is void. Pp. 35, 39.
3. An assignment by a patent-owner, not conveying any interest in
the patent itself but only a claim for past damages against infringers, does not confer upon the assignee a right to sue for such
damages in his own name without joining his assignor, who must
also-have been the owner of the patent, when the infringements
were committed. P. 39.
4. The effect of such an assignment depends upon the patent law,
unaffected by Equity Rule 37 providing that suits shall be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest. P. 44.
276 Fed. 376, reversed.

This was a bill in equity filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois by the Nye
Tool and Machine Works, a corporation of Illinois, having

its place of business in Chicago, against the Crown Die

