OCTOBER TERM, 1922.

174

Argument for Appellant.

261 U. S.

LUMIERE v. MAE EDNA WILDER, INC.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 242. Argued January 18, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
Under the provision of the Copyright Act that suits "may be instituted in the district of which the defendant or his agent is an
inhabitant, or in which he may be found," jurisdiction cannot be
a district where it has no office and
acquired over a corporation in,
does no business, by serving process on its president while there
temporarily and not on business of the corporation. P. 177.

Afirmed.

APPEAL from an order of the District Court quashing
service of a subpoena ad re8pondendum.
Mr. Wi7lims S. Eva= for appellant.
We contend that the plain intent of Congress Was,
not only to give jurisdiction to the court of the district
where the defendant or his agent was a resident, but also
to' that of any district in which the defendant or his
agent may be found. The punctuation plainly shows
that two contingencies were considered. One, the residence of the defendant or his agent, and two, the place
where the defendant or his agent was found and served
with process.
We contend that the word "he" in the list clause
refers to the "defendant or his agent" and that it means
that civil actions under the copyright law may be instituted in the district in which the defendant's agent
is found in the sense that he is served with process.
Any other interpretation with respect to a corporation
would be impossible, since one can find or serve a corporation only in the person of its agent.
We are not unmindful of the many decisions under
the anti-trust, the patent and similar statutes, which

LUMIERE v. WILDER, INC.
174

175

Argument for Appellant.

have determined that a corporation is not "found"
in a district when one of its officers is temporarily in the
district, even though he be conducting some incidental
business of the company. The distinction between the
statutes on which these decisions have been made and
the statute at bar is, that, at bar, by. the very language
of the statute it is provided that one can serve either
the defendant or his agent, where either resides or is
found, whereas this language is not used in any of the
other statutes under consideration.
The manifest purpose of this enactment was -to increase the protection that the Copyright Act was designed
to provide for- authors,-make it as convenient as possible for them to enforce their rights.
If it was not the intention to change the status provided by § 52, Jud. Code, this section of the Copyright
Act would be unnecessary.
Cases decided under § 52, Jud. Code, can have no application, for jurisdiction under that section is limited to
the district where the defendant "resides."
Cases under the Sherman Act are not in point for the
language there is, "the district in which the defendant
resides or is found or has an agent." ' Having an agent
in a district plainly means something definite and
permanent and is distinctly in contrast with the situation where service may be made in the district where the
"defendant or his agent resides or in which he may be
found."
Cases under the patent law, Jud. Code,
§ 48, -are not
in point. The -lianguage of that section is." the district
courts -of the United States shall have jurisdiction . . .
in the district of which the defendant is an inhabitant,
or in any district in which the defendant . . . shall have

committed acts of infringement and have a regular and*
established place of business." The distinction is manifest.

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

The words of this act should be given their plain and
usual meaning.
Mr. Frederick F. Church for appellee.
MR. JusncE BRAwDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The venue of suits for infringement of copyright is not
determined by the general provision governing suits in the
federal district courts. Judicial Code, § 51. The Copyright Act provides that suits "may be instituted in the
district of which the defendant or his agent is an inhabitant, or .in which he may be found." Act of March 4,
1909, c. 320, § 35, 35 Stat. 1075, 1084. Whether under
this section a valid service was made upon defendant is
the only question for decision.
New York is divided into four federal judicial districts.
Judicial Code, § 97. Lumiere, a citizen and resident of
New York City, in the Southern District, brought, in the
federal court for that district, this suit to enjoin the infringement of a copyright by publications in that city.
The defendant, Mae Edna Wilder, Inc., is a New York
corporation with its place of business in Rochester, in the
Western District. It was not an inhabitant of the Southern District. It had no place of business there. It had no
agent or employee there authorized to carry on business
on its behalf. It transacted no business there. The only
service of process made was by delivering to Mr. Adkin,
who was its president, a copy of the subpoena while he
was temporarily in New York City. He was not an inhabitant of the Southern District; and it was not shown
that he was there on business of the company. The defendant, appearing especially for the purpose of objecting
to the jurisdiction of the court, moved to quash the service on the ground that it was not amenable to process.
The motion was granted; and the case is here on appeal

LUMIERE v. WILDER, INC..
174 "Opinion

of the Court.

under § 238 of the Judicial Code, the question of jurisdiction having been duly certified.
That jurisdiction over a corporation cannot be acquired
in a district in which it has no place of business and is not
found, merely by serving process upon an executive officer
temporarily therein, even if he is there on business of the
company, has been settled. Philadelphia& Reading Ry.
Go. v. McKibbin, 243 U. S. 264; Rosenberg Bros. & Co. v.
Curtis Brown Co., 260 U. S. 516; Bank 'of, America v.
Whitney CentralNational Bank, ante, 171. The contention here is that jirisdiction was 6btained o rer the defendant because its president is an agent within the meaning of the statute and was personally found in New York
City. If such facts are sufficient to give jurisdiction, a
suit upon a copyright may be brought in any district of
the United States in which one who is an officer or an
agent of a defendant is served with process; although
neither plaintiff nor defendant has his residence or a place
of business there, and although the copyright was not
infringed there. It is not to be lightly assumed that Congress intended such a thing. Compare In re Keasbey &
Mattison Co., 160 U. S. 221; Macon Grocery Co. v. Atlantic Coast ine R. R. Co., 215 U. S. 501;. Ladew v. Tennessee Copper Co., 218 U. S. 357.
Ordinarily a civil suit to enforce a personal liability
undei a federal statute can be brought only'in the district
of which the defendant is an inhabitant. Judicial Code,
§ 51. In-a few classes of cases, a carefully limited right to
sue elsewhere has been given. In patent cases it is the
district of which the defendant is an inhabitant or in
which acts of infringement have been committed and the
defendant has a regular and established place of business.,
Judicial Code, § 48; W. S. Tyler Co. v. Ludlow-Saylor
Wire Co., 236 U. S. 723. In cases under the anti-trust
laws, it is where the defendant "resides or is found or has
an agent; " (Act of October 15, 1914, c. 323, § 4, 38 Stat.

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

730, 731); and in the case of corporations, the "district
whereof it is an inhabitant" or "any district wherein it
may be found or transacts business." § 12, p. 736. It is
not reasonable to conclude that Congress intended in copyright cases to give a right far greater than these. Agent
is a word used in the law in many senses. What it means
in a statute is to be determined from the context and the
subject-matter. The president of a business corporation
is, commonly, authorized to represent it for many purposes; and it may often be said properly that he is acting
as its agent... But induction into office does not impress
upon a person the status of agent of the corporation, so
that he must be deemed its agent in every jurisdiction
which he happens to enter, although the corporation transacts no business there and he is not there in any way representing it. The service of process made upon Mr. Adkin
was, clearly, not service upon an agent of the corporation
within the meaning of the Copyright Act.
As there is in this case only one defendant, the provision concerning suits in States which contain more than
one federal judicial district can have no application. See
Judicial Code, § 52; Camp v. Gress, 250 U. S. 308, 314.
Whether, under the Copyright Act, service upon an
agent would be effective as upon one "found," if it appeared that the agent when served was transacting some
business for defendant within the jurisdiction, but was
there only temporarily and had his residence and place of
business elsewhere, is a question which we need not decid6
in this case.
Affirmed.

