312

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U.S.

did arise but neither the motion nor the record discloses
onie. The issue is simply whether the specified place of
the alleged murder is within the exclusive jurisdiction of
the United States and hat does not appear to involve in
any way the construction of the Federal Constitution.
This motion must, therefore, be denied, but the ground
upon which we deny it requires us to go further. The
Act of September 14, 1922, c. 305, 42 Stat. 837, requires
us, when an appeal has been taken to this Court that
should have been taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
not to dismiss the appeal but to transfer it to the proper
Circuit Court of Appeals, which in this case is that of the
First Circuit. Heitler v. United States, 260 U. S.438.
If the motion disclosed that the present appeal had
been framed under ยง 238 to present solely the question
of the jurisdiction of the District Court of Rhode Island
certified here by that court, it would require us to consider whether on such a limited appeal it would be our
duty and within our power to order a transfer of the
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals under the Act of
Sep ember 14, 1922. The record shows, however, that
the appeal is not so limited. The order of transfer to the
Circuit Court of Appeals-for the, First Circuit will be
made.
CITY OF NEW YORKv. NEW YORK TELEPHONE
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT &UT bF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT (F NEW YORK.

No. 588. Argued February 21, 23, 1923.--Decided March 12, 1923.
1. In a suit to enjoin enforcement of orders of a state commission
respecting telephone rates, upon the ground that the rates are
confiscatory, a city with no control over such rates but interested
only indirectly as a subscriber is not a necessary party. P. 315.
In re Engelhard & Sons Co., 231 U. S. 646.

NEW YORK CITY v. N. Y. TEL. CO'3
312

313

Argument for Appellee.

2. In such case, where the interests of the city were fully represented through the commission and other officials made parties,
application of the city to become a party also was addressed to
the District Court's discretion, and its order denying the application is not finaland appealable. P. 316.
Appeal dismissed.

APPEAL from an order of the District Court denying appellant's application to be made a party, defendant in an
injunction suit.
Mr. M. Maldwin Fertig, with whom Mr. George P.
Nicholson and Mr. Harry Hertzoff were on the brief, for
appellant.
The order appealed from is a final order. Gay v. Hudson River Co., 184 Fed. 689;. Matter of Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co., 129 U. S. 206; Brush Electric Co. v. Electric
Imp. Co., 51 Fed. 557;-LaBourgogne,210 U. S. 95; Heike
v. United States, 217 U. S. 423.
The order appealed from impaired a substantial right
of the City and, therefore, it is a final order. Central
Trust Co. v. United States Light & Heating Co., 233 Fed.
420; Odell v. Batterman, 223 Fed. 292; Gas & Electric
Securities Co. y. Manhattan& Queens-Traction Co., 266
Fed. 625.
Abuse of discretionary power is reviewable by this
Court.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Mr. Charles T. Russell
was on the brief, for appellee.
Not only is the order appealed from not of that final
character which furnishes the basis for an appeal, but the
application to intervene was addressed to the discretion
of the District Court; consequently, this appeal should be
dismissed. In re Engelhard & Sons Co., 231 U. S. 646;
Ex Parte Leaf Tobacco Board of Trade, 222 U. S. 578;
CreditsCommutation Co. v. United States, 177 U. S. 311;
Guion v. Liverpool Ins. Co., 109 U. S. 173; Ex parte Cut-

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

ting, 94 U. S. 14; Farmers Bank v. Arizona Association,
220 Fed. 1; Swift v. Black PantherOil Co., 244 Fed. 20;
Western Union Tel. Co. v. United States, etc., Co., 221
Fed. 545; United States y. Philips, 107 Fed. 824.
The fact that the City of New York is a municipality
and has attempted to assume the self-appointed duty of
protecting the interests of its citizens in this rate litigation, does not confer upon the appellant an absolute right
to intervene; the application rests entirely within the discretion of the trial court.
Even if the order appealed from should be considered a
final order, the decision of the District Court denying the
appellant's motion to intervene should be affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

TAr oelivered the opinion of the

Court.
The New York Telephone Company, the appellee
herein, filed its bill in the District Court against the members of the New York Public Service Commission, the
counsel of the Commission and the Attorney General of
the State, asking an injunction against the enforcement
of two orders of the Public Service Commission as to telephone rates, one as to rates in the City of New York and
the other as to those in/the State of New York, ,outside
of the city, which it alleged to be confiscatory of its property and in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Thereafter the City of New York moved the court for an
order making it a party defendant in the cause. This
order the District Court denied. Thereafter an interlocutory injunction against the orders was granted and
an appeal,.No. 542, is pending here and has been argued
but not decided. This is a separate appeal from the
order refusing the application of the City to be made a
party defendant.
. Under Article 1, ยง 12, of the Public Service Commissions
L w of the State of New York, it is mae the duty of

NEW YORK CITY v. N. Y. TEL. CO.
312-

315,

Opinion of the Court.

counsel to the Commission "to represent and appear for
the people of the state of New York and the commission
in all actions and proceedings involving any question
under this chapter, or 'within the jurisdiction of the commission under the railroad law, or under or in reference
to any act or order of the commission, and, if directed.
to do so by the commission, to intervene, if possible, in
any action or proceeding in which any such question is
involved."
Chapter 15 of the Laws of 1922 of the State directs
that:
"The attorney general shall appear for the people of
the state, and take such steps as may be necessary to
protect the interests of the public, in the proceeding heretofore instituted by the public service commission and
entitled 'In the matter of the hearing on motion of the commission, as to rates, charges and rentals, and the
regulations and practices affecting rates, charges and
rentals of the New York Telephone Company.' -Forsuch
purpose, he may employ special deputies, experts and
other oasistants, and incur such other expenses as he may
find necessary, within the amount appropriated by this
act."
The necessary defendant in the suit to enjoin the orders
lowering rates was the Public Service Commission whose
orders they were. In addition the counsel of the Commission and the Attorney General were made parties
defendant under the legislation above recited. The City
of New York has no control over the rates. Its only
interest in them is as a subscriber, and even as such its
interest in the general rates is not direct because its own
rates are settled by a special contract. Under-such circumstances, -the City -is certainly not a necessary party.
In re Engelhard & Sons Co., 231 U .S.646, an action
had been brought against the City of Louisville to restrain the enforcement of an ordinance prescribing tele-

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

phone rates. One of the subscribers filed a petition in
the District Court asking to be made a party defendant.
This was denied and the petitioner sought in this Court
a mandamus to compel the District Judge to grant the
petition. It was pressed upon the Court that petitioner
had a common interest with other subscribers in the fates
under discussion and that under Equity Rule No. 38 when
the question is one of common or general interest and it
is impracticable to bring them all before the court, one
may sue or defend for all. This Court held that the City
was the proper defendant in the suit as the representative
of all interested. We said:
"It is the universal practice, sustained by authority,
that the only mode of judicial relief against unreasonable
rates is by suit against the governmental authority which
established them or is charged with the duty of enforcing
them."
There is nothing in this case to show that the Public
Commission will not fully and properly represent the
subscribers resident in New York City. Indeed it was
said at the bar that the City and the Public Commission
and the Attorney General were co~perating in every way
in the defense of the suit. It was completely within the
discretion of the District Court to refuse to allow the City
to become a defendant when its interests and those of its
residents were fully represented under the law and protected by those who had been made defendants. There
is nothing to show that the refusal complained of was an
abuse of discretion. This same controversy arose in the
case of the City of New York v. Cons lidated Gas Co.,
253 U. S. 219, and the same conclusion was reached.
Indeed it was there said that an order like the one here
objected to was not of such a final character as to furnish
the basis of, an appeal, citing Ex parte Cutting,.94 U. S.
14, 22; Credits Commutation Co. v. United States, 177
U. S. 311, 315; Ex parte Leaf Tobacco Board of Trade,

UNITED STATES v. ALLEN.
312

Opinion of the Court.

222 U. S. 578, 581. These cases show that exceptional
circumstances may make an order denying intervention
in a suit a final and appealable order, but the present is
not one of them.
Our conclusion is that this appeal should be
Dismissed.
UNITED STATES v. ALLEN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 232. Argued March 1, 1923.-Decided March 12, 1923.
Under the Act of May 22, 1917, c.20, 40 Stat. 84, providing that,
during the War, warrant and petty officers and enlisted men of the
Coast Guard should receive the same rates of pay as those prescribed for corresponding grades or ratings and length of service
in the Navy, a yeoman of the Coast Guard, whose duties and
qualifications in fact corresponded to those of a chief yeoman in the
Navy, was entitled to the greater pay of the latter position, notwithstanding an order of. the Secretary of the Navy making a
different classification. P. 319.
56 Ct. Clms.265, iffirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims awarding a sum as additional pay to a yeoman of the Coast
Guard.

Mr. Assistant to the Attorney General Seymour, with
whom Mr. Solicitor GeneralBeck was on the brief, for the
United States.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
and Mr. George R. Shields were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA

delivered thb opinion of the

Court.
Action for $600.00 based on the claim of Allen, who was
a yeoman in the Coast Guard, for pay at the rate fixed by
law for a chief yeoman in the Navy from April 6, 1917,

