428

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U.S.

execution. In the latter case, he is obstructing the process of the court in a proceeding in which its action has
been properly and lawfully invoked. The degree of pun-.
ishment for contempt in such case is in the discretion of
the court whose dignity has been offended and whose
process has been obstructed. New Orleans v. Steamship
Co., 20 Wall. 387. Certainly it was not an abuse of discretion in this case to impose as a penalty, compensation
for the expenses incurred by the" successful party to the
decree in defending its rights in the Ohio court.
Decree affirmed.
KELLER ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE PUBLIC
UTILITIES COMMISSION OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA, v. POTOMAC ELECTRIC POWER
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 260. Argued February 26, 27, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.
1. In a proceeding brought by a public utility against the Public
Utilities Commission of the District of Columbia, in the Supreme
Court of the District, under par. 64 of § 8 of the Act o, March
.4, 1913, c. 150, 37 Stat. 974, the court is empowered, not merely
to decide legal questions and questions of fact as incident thereto,
but also to amend and, if need be, enlarge valuations, rates and
regulations established by the Commission, which the court finds
upon the record and evidence to be inadequate, and to make such
-order as in its judgment the Commission should have made. P. 440.
2. This is legislative, as distinguished from judicial, power. Id.
3. Under the power ",to exercise exclusive legislation in all cases
whatsoever" over the District of Columbia, (Const. Art. I, § 8,
cl. 17,) Congress may vest this jurisdiction in the courts of the
* District. P. 442.
4. But such power can not be conferred upon this Court; and the
provision made by the above act (par. 64) for appeals here from
the Court of Appeals of the District is, therefore, void. P. 443.
5.,The failure of this provision of the act does not, however;.affect
the other provisions of par. 64 of the act giving jurisdiction to

KELLER v. POTOMAC ELEC. CO.
428

Argument for Appellants.

the courts of the District, in view of the probable intent of Congress
in this regard and the saving clause in par. 92. P. 444.
6. If the provisions of the above act (pars. 65 and 69) seeking to
limit the time within which recourse may be had to the courts
against orders of-the Commission and to put the burden of proof'
upon the party attacking them, are unconstitutional, the remainder
of the act would not be affected, in view of the saving clause of
par 92. P. 445.
Appeal to review 51 App. D. C. 77; 276 Fed. 327, dismissed.
APPEAL, under the law creating the Public Utilities
Commission of the District, of Columbia, from an order
or decree of the Court of Appeals of the District reversing
a decree of the Supreme Court of the District, which dismissed the bill in a suit against the Commission, and
remanding the case for further proceedings.

Mr. Francis H. Stephens, with whom Mr. Conrad H.
Syme and Mr. George P. Barse were on the briefs, for
appellants.
.This is a "'case" within the meaning of § 2 of Art.
III of the Constitution. Smith v. Adams, 130 U. S. 167;
Osborne v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 819; Ormsby v. Webb,
134 U. S. 47; Nashville v. Cooper, 6 Wall. 247; ,Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447;
La Abra Mining Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 423;
Martin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 352; Cohens v. Virginia, 6
Wheat. 264, 407; Ex.parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 133; Railroad Co. v. Mississippi, 102 U. S. 140; Ex .parte Carll,
106 U. S.521; Marbury v. Madisqn, 1 Cr. 138; Owings v.
Norwood's Lessee, 5 Cr. 348; Wood Paper Co. v. Heft,
8 Wall. 336; Irvine v. Marshall, 20 How. 565.
Congress cannot impose a legislative or executive or
administrative'duty, upon a court exercising- the judicial
power mentioned in Art. III, -§ 1, of the Constitution.
Hayburn's Case, 2 Dal. 408; United States v. Ferreira,13
How. 40; Gordon v. United States,.2 Wall. 561; United
States v. Jones, 119 U. S.477.

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

261 U.S.

It is not -believed that the instant case falls within the
decision of Muskrat v. United States. 219 U. S. 246,
where the Court had under review the constitutionality
of a statute which conferred jurisdiction upon the Court
of Claims to examine and pass upon the constitutionality
-of certain laws passed by Congress affecting the Cherokee
Indians and the right of appeal from that court to the
Supreme Court of the United States. Neither does it
fall within the decision of Gordon v. United States, 2
Wall. 561; 117 U. S. 699. This Court has on numerous
occasions clearly distinguished between functions of the
legislature (or a commission acting for the legislature)
and the functions of the courts, so far as concerns ratemaking and the valuations upon which rates are based.
Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362,
397; Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, 8;
Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253 U. S.
287; Denver v. Denver Union Water Co., 246 U. S. 178;
Newton v. ConsolidatedGas Co., 258 U. S. 165; Columbus
Ry. Co. v. Columbus, 249 U. S. 399; Rowland v. St. Louis
& San Francisco,R. R. Co., 244 U. S. 106; Des Moines
Gas Co. v. Des Moines, 238 U. S. 153; Lincoln Gas Co. v.
Lincoln, 250 U. S. 256; Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Union Pacific R. R' Co., 222 U. S. 541.
Upon the nature and powers of the courts of the District of Columbia,-see: Const., Art. I, § 8, cl. 17; Rev.
Stats. D. C., § 760; United States v. Kendall, 5 Cr. C. C.
164; Ex parte Norvell, 20 D. C. 348; 9 Mack. 352; In re
Spencer, MacA. & M. 433; Noerr v. Brewer, 1 MacA. 507;
Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 424; Loughborough v.
Blake, 5 Wheat. 317; Embrey v. Palmer, 107 U. S. 3;
Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, 191 U. S..516; Moss v. United
States, 23 App. D. C. 483.
The case arises under the Constitution. Hollis v. Kutz,
255 U. S. 482; Columbus Ry. Co. v. Columbus, 249 U. S.
399; and other cases.

KELLER v. POTOMAC ELEC. CO.
428

Argument for -Appellee.

The case also arises under the laws of the United States.
There is nothing in the Constitution which requires a
final judgment as a necessary element for the exercise of
the appellate power of this Court. This is, exemplified
by the legislation permitting this Court to review cases
from inferior federal courts entering interlocutory orders
granting injunctions., United States Fidelity Co. v. Bray,
,225 U. S. 205; Denver v. New York Trust Co., 229 U. S.
123.
It is questionable whether this judgment is a final judgment in form, but there cannot be much doubt that it was
a final judgment in substance. Grantv. Phoenix Ins. Co.,
106 U. S. 429; Winthrop Iron Co. v. Meeker, 109 U. S.
180; Carondelet Canal Co. v. Louisiana, 233 U. S. 362;
Forgay v. Conrad, 6 How. 201.
Mr. John A. Garver, with whom Mr. S. R. Bowen and
'Mr.John S. Barbourwere on the briefs, for appellee.
The judgment appealed from was .final. But this is
immaterial.
There is no provision in the Federal Constitution limiting the appellate jurisdiction of this .Court to appeals
from final judgments.
In the case of the Public Utilities Act, now under consideration, Congress was of the opinion that any decision
made by the Commission, pursuant to the powers conferred upon it, was of such great public interest and importance that, in' reviewing the exercise of those powers,
the decision of the Supreme Court of the District, and, in
case of an appeal to the District Court of Appeals, the
decision of that court, whether resulting in a final judgment or not, might be carried by appeal to this Court by
either party in interest. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25.
This Court has not. hesitated to review appeals from
interlocutofy orders and decrees, where the right was

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellee.

261 U. S.

expressly conferred by statute. United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 225 U. S. 306; Jud. Code, § 210;
Act October 22, 1913, 38 Stat. 220.
An act creating a commission with regulatory powers
over public utilities must prescribe the principles and procedure to be observed by the commission in the exercise
of such powers. Otherwise, the statute will be invalid,
in attempting to confer discretionary legislative powers
upon the commission. Wichita' R. R. Co. v. Public
Utilities Commission, 260 U. S. 48.
A regulatory act will be declared invalid unless it contains provisions enabling the utilities to review in the
courts acts of the commission complained of as affecting
their property rights. Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon
Borough, 253 U. S. 287; SaratogaSprings v. SaratogaGas
Co., 191 N. Y. 123.
Under § 2 of Art. III of the Constitution, Congress
could not, in the present case, confer appellate jurisdiction
upon this Court, unless there is a constitutional question
involved or unless a judicial question arises under the act
itself, which the courts have power to consider. Only
justiciable questions can be considered by the Court under
Art. III.
Whether the case now before the Court involves a question which Congress couldrequire this Court to pass upon
is a question which is not confined to the jurisdiction of
this Court alone, but extends to the original jurisdiction
conferred upon the Supreme Court of the District, as well
as upon the Court of Appeals. If Congress had the power
to confer jurisdiction upon the District Supreme Court in
a case of this kind, it also had the power to provide for a
review by the District Court of Appeals, and by this
Court, of the decision of the lower court.
To deny this power and hold that the case at bar presents no justiciable controversy would be to invalidate the
entire act. For Congress clearly intended, as'an integral

KELLER v. POTOMAC ELEC. CO.
428

43

Argument for Appellee. "

part of the act, to provide for a prompt review of the determinations and orders of the Commission; and this indeed it was bound to do. Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben
Avon Borough, supra. The Court will adopt a construction of the act, if possible, which will sustain it. United
States v. Delaware& Hudson-Co., 213 U. S. 366.
In valuing the property, the Commission acted judicially. Under the Interstate. Commerce Act, the commissioners, in many instances, necessarily act in a judicial
capacity. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Cincinnati, etc., R. R. Co., 167 U. S. 479, 501.
Commissioners appointed to appraise property for purposes of taxation or condemnation, or to assess bendfits,
act judicially. Hagarv. Reclamation District, 111 U. S.
701; Centralof GeorgiaRy. Co. v. Wright, 207 U. S. 127;
Barhyte v. Shepherd, 35 N. Y. 238; Clark v. Norton, 49
N. Y. 243; Stuart v. Palmer, 74 N. Y. 183.
Under the District Utflities *Act, the Commissioners
necessarily act in a judicial capacity in determining what
property is used and useful in the business of the utility,
in passing upon the numerous questions- that arise in
ascertaining the value of such property for the purposes.
of a rate base, such as organization and development expenses entering into the capital accouint, depreciation,
working capital, franchise rights, the weight to be given
to the testimony of witnesses, etc. The present record'is
full of instances where the Commissioners passed upon the
admissibility and effect of the evidence; and they entirely
disregarded the evidence of value furnished by the Cornpany, on the ground that the Company valued the prop-,
erty as of the time when the valuation was made, rather
than as of an earlier date which the Commission thought
would represent normal conditions.
The question of valuation is most important. The District Utilities Act, in express terms (par. 65), makes the

-

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellee.

261 U. S.

valuation of the property found by the Commission final
and conclusive, unless an appeal to the courts is taken by
the utility within 120 days after the valuation is made.
The right to judicial review of valuation is expressly
recognized by this Court. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co.
v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 252 U. S. 178; Ohio
Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253 U. S. 287.
Official appraisal of property is universally recognized
as constituting a case reviewable by the courts. In the
assessment of property for purposes of taxation or benefit,
the owner must be given an opportunity to be heard.
Failure to afford him such an opportunity invalidates the
issessment, as it deprives the owner of his property with:
out due process of law. Davidson v. New Orleans, 96
U. S. 97, 105, 107;' Hagar v. Reclamation District, 111
U. S. 701, 710; Security Trust Co. v. Lexington, 203 U. S.
323, 333; Jewell v. Van Steenburgh, 58 N. Y. 85, 90-1;
Stuart v. Palmer,74 N. Y. 183.
A tax st.tute.for the assessment of property, which
does not provide for notice to the owner, is unconstitutional and void. Remsen v. Wheeler, 105 N. Y. 573, 579.
The right to be heard upon the valuation of property
about to be taken, in whole or in part, for the public benefit, being thus secured by the Constitution, it necessarily
follows that. the courts have the power and duty to protect it; and, in the protection of this right, it can make
no difference whether all of the owner's property is taken
under the power of eminent domain, or whether only a
small portion of it is taken, as in the case of a general tax
or in fixing a limit upon the return of property devoted to
the public use.
This right of judicial review, in the case of the official
valuation of property, was expressly recognized by this
Court in Hagarv. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701.
Congress has power in the exercise of its express powers
to invoke the aid of the courts.

KELLER v. POTOMAC ELEC. CO.
428

Argument for Appellee.

Although Art. III of the Constitution limits the jurisdiction of the federal courts, this limitation is subject to
the power of Congress to enlarge the jurisdiction, where
such enlargement may reasonably be required to enable
Congress to exercise the express powers conferred upon it
by the Constitution. Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25, 38; Ellis v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 237 U. S. 434.
Clause 17, of § 8, of Art. I, of the Constitution, empowers Congress to exercise exclusive jurisdiction, "in
all cases whatsoever ", over the District of Columbia.
Clause 18 of the same section confers power upon Congress "to make all laws which may be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers
and all other powers vested by this Constitution in the
Government of the United States or in any department
or officer thereof."
Congress thus has just as complete power to regulate
the public utilities in the District of Columbia as it has
to regulate interstate commerce. Indeed, its power in
'the former respect is clearer, because it is not involved in
the conflict which so 'frequently arises between the federal and state authorities in questions arising under the
regulation of commerce.
The power of Congress to confer jurisdiction, in cases
where the limitations contained in Art. Il'of the Constitution might exclude such jurisdiction, was distinctly
recognized by this Court in the Brimson Case, supra. The
power to require the production of books and papers was
one which the Court thought was essential to the effective
execution of the statute and which might in any particular
case result in adifference of opinion or dispute between
the Commission and the persons affected by their ruling.
The Court recognized thaf the action of 'Congress must be
regarded as lawful, "unless the incompatibility between

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

the Constitution and the act of Congress is clear and
strong."
The argument in the Brimson Case is peculiarly applicable to the case at bar. The District Utilities Act confers broader powers upon the Commission than are conferred by the Interstate Commerce Act; and it was a matter of importance both to the utilities in the District and
to the general-public that provision should be made for
the prompt disposition of any disputes growing out of the
exercise of the powers conferred upon the Commission.
Under this act, no question is of more vital concern, both
to the public and to the utilities, than the value of the
property upon which the charge for the service is based.
Upon the correct ascertainment of that value depends
the power of the company to serve the public properly;
and only upon such a basis can the public expect to receive adequate service. Knoxville v. Knoxville Water
Co., 212 U. S. 1.
The decision in the -Brimson Case was followed in the
Baird and Ellis Cases, supra. ,
This Court has jurisdiction to hear the appeal herein
now pending before it.
MR. CiamF JUsTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia. It is an appeal provided for in
paragraph 64 of the law creating the Public Utilities
Commission of the .District. The law is § 8 of an Act
approved March 4, 1913, making appropriations for the
District for the year ending June 30, 1914. 37 Stat.
938, 974. Paragraph 7 requires the Commission created
thereby to value the property of every public utility
within the District actually used and useful for the convenience of the public at the fai: value thereof at the.

KELLER v. POTOMAC ELEC. CO.
428

437

Opinion of the Court.

time of the valuation.. The Commission, after a public
hearing, fixed the value of the Potomac Electric Power
Company at $11,231,170.43. The company then filed a
bill in equity in the Supreme Court of the District against
the Commission, seeking to enjoin the order as unlawful,
unreasonable and inadequate under paragraph 64 of the
law. It made a party defendant to-the bill the Washington Railway and Electric Company, because it is the sole
stockholder of the Power Company.
The Supreme Court of the District upheld the findings
of the Commission in every particular and dismissed the
bill. From this decree, the c6mpany appealed to the
Court of Appeals of the District, on the ground thatthe
Commission and the Supreme Court had found the value
as of July 1, 1914, whereas the time of the valuation was
December 31, 1916, and between the two dates there had
been a sharp rise in values for which the company was
not made any-allowance in the valuation, and also because
under the circumstances of the case, and the challenge by
the company that the valuation was arbitrary, the court
should disregard the prima facie effect given by the'statute to the findings of the Commission,. and- exercise its
own independent judgment as to both law and facts so
fir as it was necessary to determine whether the use of
such valuation as a basis of rate making would result in
confiscation. The Court of Appeals-sustained the appeal
on these grounds and remanded the cause for further proceedings not inconsistent with its opinion.
When this appeal was opened by counsel at the bar we
declined to hear the merits, and postpohed the -case tQ
give both sides an opportunity td prepare to diiduss the
questions, first, whether Congress had the coistitutional
power to vest the -District Courts and this Court with
jurisdictidn to review the proceedings of the Commission,
and, second, "whether if "the power existed, the appeal to
this Court was only intended to apply to a final decree,

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

and finally.whether this was such a decree. Briefs have
accordingly been filed and we have had an oral argument
upon these questions.
The Public Utilities Law is a very comprehensive one.
It applies to all public utilities in the District, except
steam railways and steamboat lines. It creates a, Commission to supervise and regulate them in the matter of
rates, tolls, charges, service, joint rates, and other matters
of interest to the public. It directs investigation into the
financial history and affairs of each utility and its valuation at a fair value as of the time of valuation. It requires a public hearing on this subject. It also provides
that while the utility may fix a schedule of rates, not
exceeding the lawful rates at the passage of the act, which
it must publish, the Commission may of its-own initiative;
or upon the complaint of another, or indeed of the utility.
itself, investigate the reasonableness, lawfulness and adequacy of the rate or service and may change the same.
The utility must then adopt the change and publish its
schedules accordingly. The law further provides that in
such proceedings, the utility shall have notice and a hearing, that a stenographic record of the proceedings shall be
kept and produced by the Commission in any court proceeding thereafter instituted to question the validity, reasonableness or adequacy of the action of the Commission.
The relevant part of paragraph 64 is given in full in the
margin.1 In short, it enables the Commission by action
"Par. 64. That if at any time the commission shall be in doubt
of the elements of value to be by them considered in arriving at the
true valuation under the provisions of this section, they are authorized and empowered to institute a proceeding in equity in the Supfreme Court of the District of Columbia petitioning said court to
instruct them as to the element or elements of value to be by them
considered as aforesaid, and the particular utility under valuation
at the time shall be made party defendant in said action.
That any public utility and any person or corporation interest [ed]
being dissatisfied with any order or decision of the commission fixing

KELLER v. POTOMAC ELEC. CO.
428

439

Opinion of the Court.

in equity to invoke the advice of the District Supreme
Court upon the elements in value to be by it considered
in arriving at a true valuation of the property of a utiihy.
It further grants to any utility or any person or corporate
interest dissatisfied with any valuation, rate or rates or
regulation or requirement, act, service or other thing fixed
by the Commission the right to begin a proceeding in
equity in the Supreme Court, to vacate, set aside or modify the order on the ground that the valuation, rate, regulation, or requirement is 'unlawful, inadequate or unreasonable. Paragraph 65 limits the time within which such
a proceeding to vacate, set aside or amend the order of
any valuation, rate or rates, tolls, charges, schedules, joint rate or
rates, or regulation, requirement, act, service or other thing complained of may commence a proceeding in equity in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia against the commission, as defendants, to vacate, set aside, or modify any such decision or order on the
ground that the valuation, rate or rates, tolls, charges, schedules, joint
rate or rates, or regulation, requirement, act, service or other thing
complained of fixed in such order is unlawful, inadequate, or unreasonable. The answer of the commission, on any such action being
instituted against it, or the answer of any public utility on any such
action being bommenced by said commission against it,,shall be filed
within ten days; whereupon said proceeding shall be at issue and
stand ready for trial.
All such proceedings shall have precedence over any civil cause of
a different nature pending in such court, and the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia shall always be deemed open for the trial
thereof, and'the same shall be tried and determined as are equity
proceedings in said court. Any party, including said commission,
may appeal from the order or decree of said court to the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia, and therefrom to the Supreme
Court of the United States, which shall thereupon have and take.
said appeal
jurisdiction in every such' appeal. Pending the decision ofi
the commission may suspend the decision or order appealed from for
such a period as it may deem fair and reasonable under the 'circumstances: Provided, That no appeal, unless the court or the commissioni shall so' order, shall operate to stay any order of the com"
mission. .

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

the Commission may be begun to 120 days, and thereafter
the right to appeal or of recourse to the courts shall terminate absolutely. Paragraph 67 provides that if new
evidence is introduced by the plaintiff different from that
offered in the hearing before the Commission, unless the
parties otherwise agree, the new evidence shall be sent to
the Commission to enable it to change its order if it sees
fit, and then the court shall proceed to consider the appeal
either on the original order or the changed order as the
case may be. Paragraph 69 provides that in such proceedings, the burden of proof is upon the party adverse to
the Commission to show by clear and satisfactory evidence that the determination, requirement, direction or
order of the Commission complained of is inadequate, unreasonable or unlawful as the case may be.
What is the nature of the power thus conferred on the
District Supreme Court? Is it judicial or is it legislative?
Is the court- to pass solely on questions of law, and look
to the facts only to decide what are the questions of law
really arising, or to consider whether there was any showing of facts before the Commission upon which, as a matter of law, its finding, can be justified? Or has it the
power, in this equitable proceeding to review the exercise
of discretion by the Commission and itself raise or lower
valuations, rates, or restrict or exprd orders as to service?
Has it the power to make the order the Commission
should have made? If it has, then the court is to exercise legislative power in that it will be laying down new
rules, to change present conditions and to guide future
action and is not confined to definition and protection of
existing rights. In Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co.,
211 U. S. 210, .226, we said:
"A,- judicial inquiry investigates, declares and enforces
liabilities as they stand on present or past facts and under
laws supposed already to exist. That is its purpose and
end. Legislation on the other hand looks to the future

KELLER v. POTOMAC ELEC. CO.
428

Opinion of the Court.

and changes existing conditions by making a new rule to
be applied thereafter to all or some-part of those subject
to its power. The establishment .ofa rate is the making
of a rule for the future, and therefore is an act legislative
not judicial in kind....
Under the law, the proceeding in the District Supreme
Court is of a very special character. The court may be
called in to advise the Commission as to the elements of
value to be by it considered, at any stage of the hearing
before the Commission. To modify or amend a valuation,
or a rate, or a regulation of the Commission as inadequate,
as the court is authorized to do, seems to us necessarily .to
import the power to increase the valuation, or rate, or
to make a regulation more comprehensive, and to consider
the evidence before it for this purpose. In other words,
the proceeding in cpurt is an appeal from the action of
the Commission in the chancery sense. In the briefs of
counsel for the Commission it is so termed. The form
which the bill filed is given by the Electric Company is
that of a series of exceptions to the rulings of the court
on the evidence and at every stage of the hearing and
finally to the conclusions of fact as against the weight of
the evidence. Paragraph 69 is signi.cant in its indication
that issues of fact as to inadequacy of the action by the
Commission are to be passed on by the court.
Counsel seek to establish an analogy between the jurisdiction of the District Supreme Court to ieview the action
of the Commission, and that conferred on, and exercised
by, the Federal District Courts in respect of the orders
of the Interstate Commerce Commission. We t6ink,
however, that the analogy fails. The act for -the creation
of the Commerce Court provided (Judicial Code, § 207)
that it should have the jurisdiction of the then Circuit
Courts of all cases brought to enjoin, set aside or annul
or suspend in whole or in .part any order of the"Commission. When the Commerce Court was abolished by the

442

OCTOBER TERM,. 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

Act of October 22, 1913, 38 Stat. 219, this jurisdiction
was conferred on the several District Courts of the.United
States. This permits these Courts to consider all relevant questions of constitutional power or right and all
pertinent questions whether the administrative order is
within the statutory authority, or is an attempted'exercise of it so unreasonable as not to be within it; but these
are questions of law only. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 215 U. S. 452, 470.
Of course the consideration and decision of questions of
law may involve a consideration of controverted facts to
determine what the question of law is, but it is settled
that any finding of fact by the Commission if supported
by evidence is final and conclusive on the courts. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union Pacific R. R. Co.,
222 U. S. 541, 547. A similar distinction exists between
the jurisdiction here conferred and that vested in circuit
courts of appeals in referenice to proceedings before the
Trade Commission. C. 311, § 5, 38 Stat. 719. The language of the act under discussion is much wider than that
of the Interstate Commerce Act or of the Federal Trade
Commission provisions. It brings the court much more
intimately into -the legislative machinery for fixing rates
than does the Interstate Commerce Act. We can not
escape the conclusion that Congress intended that the
court shall revise the legislative discretioh of the Commission by considering the evidence and full record of the
case and entering the order it deems the Commission
ought to have made.
Can the Congress vest such jurisdiction in the courts
of the District of Columbia? By the Constitution, clause
17, § 8, Article I, Congress is given power "To exercise
exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever, over" the
District of Columbia. This means that as to the District
Congress possesses not only the power which belongs to
it in respect of territory within a State but the power of

KELLER v. POTOMAC ELEC. CO.
428

443

Opinion of the Court.

the State as well. In other words, it possesses a dual
authority over the District and may clothe the courts of
the District not only with the jurisdiction and powers of
federal courts in the several States but with such authority as a State may confer on her courts. Kendall v.
United States, 12 Pet. 524, 619. Instances in which congressional enactments have been sustained which conferred powers and placed duties on the courts of the District of an exceptional and advisory character are found
in Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50, 60; United States
v. Duell, 172 U. S. 576, and Baldwin Co. v. Howard Co.,
256 U. S. 35.. Subject to the guaranties of personal liberty in the amendments and in the original Constitution
Congress has as much power to vest courts of the District
with a variety of jurisdiction and powers as a state legislature has in conferring jurisdiction on its courts. In
Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., supra, we held that
when " a state constitution sees fit to unite legislative and
judicial powers in a single hand, there is nothing to hinder
so far as the Constitution of the United States is concerned." (211 U. S. 225.) Dreyer v. Illinois, 187 U. S.
71, 83, 84.
It follows that the provisions in the law for a review of
the Commission's proceedings by the Supreme Court
of the District and for an appeal to the District Court of
Appeals are valid. A different question arises, however,
when we come to consider the validity of the provision
for appeal to this Court. It is contained in the following
sentence in paragraph 64:
"Any party, including said commission, may appeal
from the order or decree of said court to the Court- of
Appeals of the District of Columbia, and therefrom to
the Supreme Court of the United States, which shall
thereupon have and take jurisdiction in , every such
appeal."
The court proceedings to review the orders of the Commission authorized by paragraph 64 are expressly required

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

to conform to equity procedure. In that procedure, an
appeal brings up the whole record and the appellate court
is authorized to review the evidence and make such order
or decree as the court of first instance ought to have made,
giving proper weight to the findings on disputed issues of
fact which shou]d be accorded to a tribunal which heard
the witnesses. This Court is, therefore, given jurisdiction to review the entire record and to make the order or
decree which the Commission and the District Courts
should have made.
Such legislative or administrative jurisdiction, it is well
settled can not be conferred on this Court either directly
or by appeal. The latest and fullest authority upon this
point is to be found in the opinion of Mr. Justice Day,
speaking for the Court in Muskrat v. United States, 219
U. S. 346.- The prindiple there recognized and enforced
on reason and authority is that the jurisdiction of this
Court and of the inferior courts of the United States
ordained and established by Congress under and by virtue
of the third article of the Constitution is limited to cases
and controversies in such form that the judicial power is
capable of acting on them and does not extend to an issue
of constitutional law framed by Congress for the purpose
of invoking the advice of this Court without real parties
or a real case, or to administrative or legislative issues or
controversies. Hayburn's Case, 2 Dall. 410, note; United
States v. Ferreira,13 How. 40, 52; Ex parte Siebold, 100
U. S. 371, 398; Gordon v. United States, 117 U. S. 697;
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 215 U. S. 216.
The fact that the appeal to this Court is invalid does
not, however, render paragraph 64 invalid as a whole.
Paragraph 92 of the law declares each paragraph to be
independent and directs that the holding of any paragraph or any part of it invalid shall not affect the validity
of the rest. Moreover, we think Congress would have

KELLER v. POTOMAC ELEC. CO.
428

445

Opinion of the Court.

given the appeals to the courts of the District even if it
had known that the appeal to this Court could not stand.
Some question has been made as to the validity of
paragraph 65, which. forbids all recourse to courts to. set
aside, vacate and amend the orders of the Commission
after 120 days, and of paragraph 69, which puts the burden upon the party adverse to the Commission to'show by
clear and satisfactory evidence the inadequacy, unreasonableness or unlawfulness of the order complained of. It
is suggested that this deprives the public utility of its constitutional right to have the independent judgment of a
court on the question of the confiscatory character of an
order and so brings the whole law within the inhibition of
the case of Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough,
253 U. S. 287. It is enough to say that even if paragraphs
65 and 69 were invalid, the whole act would not fail in
view of paragraph 92 already referred to. It will be time
enough to consider the validity of those sections when it
is sought to apply them to bar or limit an independent
judicial proceeding raising the question whether a rate or
other requirement of the Commission is confiscatory.
Our conclusion that the provision for appeal to this Court
in paragraph 64 is invalid makes it unnecessary to decide whether the appeal must be from a final decree, or
whether the decree of the Court of Appeals was final.
Appeal dismissed.

