140

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S.

port it, we think, are applicable to the circumstances of
the instant cause. The lapse of tine bad destroyed any
liability by the carrier to the shipper or his assignee for
the alleged overcharges, and the demurrer should have
been sustained.
Reversed.

MINNESOTA COMMERCIAL MEN'S ASSOCIATION v. BENN, EX ECUTRIX OF BENN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE
MINNESOTA.

OF

No. 103. Argued January 12, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. A judgment by default rendered against a foreign corporation on
process served on a state officer as its agent, in a State in which
it has done no business, nor otherwise consented to be so served, is
void. P. 145.
2. Upon facts stated, held: (a) That a contract of insurance made
between a mutual insurance company and a person domiciled in
another State, through acceptance at the company's home office of
an application received by mail, was a contract made and to be
performed in the State of the company's domicile; and
(b) That the company could not be said to be doing business in
the other State merely because one or more of its members, at its
suggestion but without authority to obligate it, solicited new mem.
bers there, or because it insured persons living there, mailed notices
to them and paid losses by checks upon its home bank, mailed from
its home office. P. 144.
149 Minn. 497, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota affirming a judgment recovered by the respondent against the petitioner in an action based on a
Montana judgment.

Mr. A. V. Rieke and Mr. David F. Simpson, with whom
Mr. Win. A. Lancaster, Mr. John Junell, Mr. James E.
Dorsey and Mr. Robert Driscoll were on the brief, for

petitioner.

MINNESOTA ASSN. v. BENN.
140

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Alphonse A. Tenner, with whom Mr. M. H. Boutelle, Mr. Arthur M. Higgins, Mr. Edward E. Tenner and
Mr. T. H. MacDonald were on the brief, for respondent.
The petitioner was doing business in Montana, the certificate or policy was made and is payable in Montana,
and is governed by the laws of that State. Iowa-State
Traveling Men's Assn. v. Ruge, 242 Fed. 762; Lumbermen's Ins. Co. v. Meyer, 197 U. S. 407; Connecticut Mutual Iife Ins. Co.v. Spratley, 172 U. S.602; Herndon-Carter Co. v. Norris & Co., 224 U. S. 496; Commercial Mutual Accident Co.v. Davis, 213 U. S. 245; Mutual Reserve
Fund Life Assn. v. Phelps, 190 U. S. 147.
The ruling of these cases was not modified by Hunter
v. Mutual Reserve Life Ins. Co., 218 U. S. 573; and Provident Savings Life Assurance Society v. Kentucky, 239
U. S. 103.
MR. Junsicm McRzYxOLUs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner is a mutual assessment, accident and health
insurance company, incorporated under the laws of Miinnesota, with many members scattered throughout the
Union. It issued a certificate of membership to Robert
J. Benn, of Montana. He died in 1915, and his executrix-respondent here--instituted an action against the
Association in a Montana court to recover the sum said
to be due under the rules. After service of summons and
complaint upon the Secretary of State and the Insurance
Commnissioner, judgment was entered by default.. Thereafter she brought an action in Minnesota upon the judgment and prevailed both in-the trial and Supreme Cburt.
149 Minn.497.
Defending, the Association claimed that it had never
done business in Montana or consented to service of
process there; that th6 insurance contract was executed
and to be performed in Minnesota; -that the Montana

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1922..
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

court was without jurisdiction, the judgment void, and
enforcement thereof would deprive petitioner of property
without due process of law contrary to the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The decision here must turn upon the effect of the
process served on the Secretary of State in Montana.
Did the court there acquire jurisdiction to enter judgment?
The Supreme Court of Minnesota followed Wold v.
Minnesota Commercial Men's Association (1917), 136
Minn. 380, wherein the opinion referred to Connecticut
Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S.602, and
CommercialMutual Accident Co. v. Davis, 213 U. S.245,
but did not cite Hunter v. Mutual Reserve Life Insurance
Co., 218 U. S. 573, or Provident Savings Life Assurance
Society v. Kentucky, 239 U. S. 103.
Section 6519, subdivision 3, Montana Revised Code of
Civil Procedure (1915) provides-Any corporation organized under the laws of the state of Montana, or doing
business therein, may be served with summons by delivering a copy of the same to the president, secretary, treasurer, or other officer of the corporation, or to the agent
designated by such corporation. ...
And if none of
the persons above named can be found in the state of
Montana, and an affidavit stating that fact shall be filed
in the office of the clerk of the court in which such action
is-pending, then the clerk of the court shall make an order
authorizing the service of summons to be made upon the
Secretary of State, who shall be and is hereby constituted
an agent and attorney in fact to accept service on behalf
of such corporation, and service upon said Secretary of
State shall be deemed personal service upon said corporation."
Petitioner has never maintained any office except in
Minneapolis, Minnesota; its business is transacted there;
it has never owned property or sought permission to do.
business in any other State.

MINNESOTA ASSN. v. BENN.
140

Opinion of the Court.-

Applications for. membership are presented on printed
forms, usually by mail. The by-laws provide that no person. can secure membership until the board of directors
has accepted his application at the home office and certificate has issued. Such certificates are. mailed as directed
by the applicants.
"
Assessments and dues are payable at the Minneapolis
office and notices in respect of them are mailed to members at their last known addresses.
New. members are procured by advertisement and
through the soli' itation of- older ones. The latter are
urged to furnish lists of prospects and to use their influence to increase the membership; but no member has
authority to bind the Association. Although not essential, applications frequently bear a member's recommendation. Soliciting members receive no compensation except occasional premiums or prizes. No paid solicitors or
agents are employed.
Losses are settled by checks on Minneapolis banks
mailed from the home office. Proofs of loss must be
made on the forms provided. In case the attending physician's -certificate is inadequate, the Association procures
additional information through some local physician, but
no resident physicians are employed outside of Minnesota. The right to make further investigation is reserved;
but there is no evidence to show anything has'been done
under this reservation in the present case. Losses are
adjusted by the directors in Minneapolis.
The Association accepted Robert J.Benn's application
for health insurance, solicited and recommended by Harry
K. Hartness, a member, November 6, 1908, and a further
application for additional protection May 3, 1911. These
were sent by mail from Kalispel, Montana, where both individuals resided. Notices were regularly mailed to Benn at
his home address, and he paid dues and assessments in the
ordinary course. It does not appear that there was any-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

thing unusual or irregular in the proofs of death or the
report of attending physician. Without further investigation and upon unsolicited information received thr6ughthe mail, the Association declined to pay.
Respondent claims that the facts show petitioner was
doing business in Montana and the insurance contract was
made and payable there. And it is said this contention is
supported by Connecticut.Mutual Life Insurance Co.-v.
Spratley, supra, and PennsylvaniaLumbermen's Mitual
FireInsurance Co. v. Meyer, 197 U. S. 407.
Considering all the circumstances, it seems sufficiently
clear that the agreement incident to membership is a Minnesota contract, there made and to be performed.
The Montana court was without jurisdiction unless petitioner by doing business in the State impliedly assented
that process might be served upon the Secretary of State
'as its agent. "If an insurance corporation of another
State transacts business in Pennsylvania without complying with its provisions it will be deemed to have assented
to any valid terms prescribed by that Commonwealth as
a condition of its right to do business there; and it will be
estopped to say that it had not done what it should have
done in order that it might lawfully enter that Commonwealth and there exert its corporate p6wers." Old Wayne
Mutual Life Association,v. McDonough, 204-U. S. 8, 21.
The circumstances chiefly relied on to show that petitioner was doing business in Montana are these: The insured was asked to send in his application, upon a form
furnished by the Association, by Hartness, one of its members and a resident of Montana, who with other members
had been requested to procure such applications. The
form was f "'-dand signed in Montana and then sent to
Minneapolis with the requisite fee. It was accepted and
certificate of membership mailed to the applicant. After
customary notices from the Association, with which blank
applications for new members were commonly enclosed,

MINNESOTA ASSN. v. BENN.
140

Opinion of the Court.

the insured sent dues and assessments from his home in
Montand to Minneapolis by mail and received receipts-all according to the usual, method. Other members of the
Association resided at Kalispel. The Association reserved
the right to investigate all claims for sickness, accident or
death.
Considering what this Court held in Green v. Chicago.
Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 531; Philadelphia
& Reading Ry. Co. v. McKibbin, 243 U. S. 264; People's
Tobacco Co. v. American Tobacco Co., 246 U. S. 79; and
Rosenberg Bros. & Co. v. CurtisBrown Co., 260 U. S. 516,
we think it cannot be said that the AssociatioAi was doing
business in Montana merely because one or more members, without authority to obligate it, solicited new members. That is not enough "to warrant the inference that
the corporation has subjected itself to the local .jurisdiction, and is by its duly authorized officers or agents present
within the State or district where service is attempted."
People's Tobacco Co. v. American Tobacco Co., supra, 87.
It also seems sufficiently clear-from Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S.578; Hunterv. Mutual Reserve Life Insurance Co., supra, and Provident Savings Life Assurance
Society v. Kentucky, supra, that an insurance corporation
is not doing business within a State merely because it
insures lives of persons living therein, mails notices addressed to beneficiaries at their homes and pays losses by
checks from its home office. See also Pembleton,v. Illinois
Commercial Men's Association, 289 Ill. 99.
We conclude, that the record fails to disclose any evidence sufficient to show that petitioner was doing business
in Montana within the proper meaning of those words, and
that the court there lacked jurisdiction to award the challenged judgment.
Reversed.

