GARDNER v. CHICAGO TITLE CO.

453

Argument for Respondent.

GARDNER, AS TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF
O'GARA COAL COMPANY, v. CHICAGO TITLE &
TRUST COMPANY, AS RECEIVER OF LA SALLE
STREET TRUST & SAVINGS BANK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 317. Argued March 15, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.
A state bank, holding a secured not6, the maker of which became a
bankrupt, itself went into insolvency proceedings under the state
law after it had accepted, with knowledge of the bankruptcy, deposits of funds of the bankrupt estate made by the trustees in
bankruptcy, who were not shown to have known of the note at the
time.
Held that the bankruptcy court should allow the bank's claim for the
.rmount due on the note, above the value of the secrity, but withhold dividends until the debt due the trustees had been paid.

P. 456.
278 Fed. 509, reversed.
CERTIORARI to an order of the Circuit Court of Appeals
directing dismissal of a petition for set-off made by a
trustee in bankruptcy.

Mr. Arthur M. Cox,. with whom Mr. Henry M. Wolf
and .Mr.A. F. Reichmann were on the briefs, for peti-.
tioner.
Mr. Hiram T. Gilbert for respondent.
The relation of a depositary to the trustees of a bank-

rupt estate is not fiduciary but is simply that of debtor
and creditor.
This point is res judicataby the decision of the Circuit
Court of Cook County allowing the claim of the trustees
in bankruptcy as a general claim.
There is no statute expressly making deposits of trhstees in bankruptcy preferred claims, nor is there any rule
of construction or other authority for holding that be-

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Respondent.

261 U.S.

cause depositaries are provided for by law the deposits
they receive as such are to be regarded as preferred claims.
As a secured creditor the receiver of the bank occupied
a position essentially different from that of an unsecured
creditor.
At the time of the adjudication in bankruptcy, the bank
had the right to apply the collateral upon the note and
present its claim against the bankrupt estate for the balance. This right could not be changed by subsequent
events. The case is no different from what it would have
been had the bankrupt, at the time of the bankruptcy,
had on deposit in the bank an amount of money equal to
the value of the collateral.
No right of set-off existed in favor of the trustees in
bankruptcy as against the receiver of the Trust & Savings
Bank. The right of set-off is reciprocal. 34 Cyc. 723;
In re United Grocery Co., 253 Fed. 267.
The rights of the parties were fixed at the time of the
suspension of the bank and could not be subsequently
changed. If there was a right of set-off at that time it
was a mutual right and not a right which only one party
could then avail itself of. People v. California Safe Deposit & Trust Co., 168 Cal. 241; In re Harper, 175 Fed.
412; In re Siegel-Hillman Dry Goods Co., 111 Fed. 980;
Scott v. Armstrong, 146 U. S. 499; In re Chrystal Spring
Bottling Co., 100 Fed. 265, distinguished.
The controversy here is not one between the O'Gara
Coal Company and the bank, but is one between the
creditors of the bankrupt company and the creditors of
the insolvent bank.
The rights of the Coal Company's creditors were fixed
on the date of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy and
those of the Bank were fixed on the date of its suspension.
The maxims "He who seeks equity should do equity,"
and "He who comes into equity ihould have clean hands,"
have no application to this case.

GARDNER v. CHICAGO TITLE CO.
453

Opinion of the Court.

The trustees in bankruptcy having obtained an order
of the state court for the payment of the $19,843.62 out
of the assets of the Bank in du course of administration
pro rata with the Trust & Savings Bank's other creditors,
and having received dividends thereon, are estopped from
now claiming the right to retrace their steps and pay back
part of the money which they received and have their
right.of set-off enforced.
This matter has become res judicata. The jurisdiction
of the state court was complete. The relief granted by
it was entirely inconsistent with the relief now claimed
by the trustee in bankruptcy and to graiit the relief the
trustee now claims would operate as a review of the decree
of the state court by the courts of the United States.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case arises in the matter of O'Gara Coal Company,
bankrupt, upon a petition for' a setoff presented by the
trustee of the bankrupt estate. The respondent is the
receiver of the La Salle Street Trust and Savings Bank.
When the Coal Company became bankrupt in 1913,. the
Bank held its note for $15,000, with security. Between
November 11, 1913, and June 11, 1914, the trustees of the
Coal Company in bankruptcy deposited in the Bank, an
authorized depositary, and were credited as such trustees
with funds of their estate, which amounted to nearly
$20,000 on June 12, 1914, when the Bank suspended business, insolvent. A receiver was appointed by a State
Court a few days later. The trustees of the Coal Company filed a claim for the amount of their deposit in 1916,
and in 1916 and again in 1918 received dividends upon
it. On the other side the receiver of the Bank filed a
proof of the Bank's claim as unsecured in 1914 but
amended it to proof of a secured claim in 1917. The peti-

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

tion before us seeks to setoff the claim of the petitioner
for the deposit in the Bank, less the dividends received,
against the claim of the-Bank upon the note. The Circuit Court of Appeals denied the setoff and ordered the
petition to be dismissed. 278 Fed. 509.
We assume that when money is deposited in a designated bank under ยง 61 of the Bankruptcy Law of July 1,
1898, c. 541, 30 Stat. 562, it is deposited as other money is,
and becomes the propertpAf .the bank, leaving the bank
a debtor for the amount. But when this money was deposited with this Bank it seems that the Bank had notice
that it was part bf a fund appropriated to paying the Coal
Company's debts, of which the note held by the Bank was
one. We think that it would be inequitable to allow the
Bank to proceed to diminish that fund Without accounting for the portion that it had received. When the Bank
accepted deposits from a fund against which it had a
credit it must be taken to have known that it could not'
profit by the fact at the expense of other claimants. The
Bank knew the whole situation. There is nothing to
show that the Trustees of the Coal Company when they
made their deposits knew that the Bank held the Coal
Company's note. If they had known this fact it would
be going far to say that they altered or could alter the
position of their cestuis-quze trust for the worse. On the
other hand the creditors of the Bank can stand no better
than the Bank.
The Bankruptcy Court may allow the Bank's claim for
such sum only as may seem to the Court to be owing above
the value of the security, ยง 57e, and may withhold dividends upon that sum until the debt due to the trustee
has been paid. Western Tie & Timber Co. v. Brown, 196
U. S. 502, 511.
Decree reversed.

