264

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

WESTERN & ATLANTIC RAILROAD v. RAILROAD
COMMISSION OF GEORGIA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 195. Argued January 9, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. An order of the District Court, sitting under Jud. Code, ยง 266,
denying an application for a preliminary injunction upon the sole
ground that the pecuniary amount requisite to confer jurisdiction was not'involved, is reviewable by appeal here. P. 265.
2. In a suit by a railroad attacking as unconstitutional a state order
requiring it to establish and operate an industrial spur track, the
pecuniary amount involved includes, not only the cost of construction, but also interest thereon, depreciation, maintenance and
operating expenses, capitalized at a reasonable rate. P. 267.
275 Fed. 128, reversed.

from an order of the District Court refusing a
preliminary injunction.
APPEAL

Mr. Fitzgerald Hall, with whom Mr. Henry C. Peeples
and Mr. Frank Slemons were on the brief, for appellant.
No brief filed for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a suit commenced in the District Court by the
Western & Atlantic Railroad, against the Railroad Commission of Georgia, its members, its special attorney, and
the Attorney General of the State to restrain and enjoin
the enforcement of an order of the Commission requiring
the plaintiff to construct and put in service a spur or
industrial track to the Farmers Warehouse Company's
warehouse abutting the right of way of the railroad at
Smyrna, Georgia. A law of Georgia (ยง 2664 of the 1910
Georgia Code) authorizes the Commission to prescribe
rules with reference to spur tracks and side tracks, and

W. & A. R. R. v. R. R. COMM.
264

265

Opinion of the Court.

with reference to their use and construction, and gives it
power to compel service to be furnished warehouses and
similar places of business along the line of railroads where
practicable and in the judgment of the Commission the
business is sufficient to justify, and on such terms and
conditions as the Commission may prescribe. The plaintiff attacks the order as unreasonable and arbitrary because under the circumstances it would deprive the plaintiff of its property without due process of law in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment, interfere with and
burden the interstate commerce of the plaintiff and compel it unjustly to discriminate against other shippers in
violation of the Act to Regulate Commerce. Before the
expiration of the time allowed by the Commission for
compliance with its order, this suit was commenced and
plaintiff gave notice of motion for temporary injunction.
The defendants answered and, among other things, denied
that the value of the matter in controversy is sufficient to
give the court jurisdiction and averred that it does not
exceed $3,000. There was a hearing before three judges
as required by ยง 266 of the Judicial Code, and the application for a temporary injunction was denied upon the
sole ground that the requisite amount was not involved.
This appeal calls for a review of that iuling. North
Pacific S. S. Co. v. Soley, 257 U. S. 216, 221; Gilbert v.

David, 235 U. S. 561, 568.
The complaint alleges that the matter in controversy
exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum
or value of $3,000, and by way of detail it is
stated, among other things, that the initial cost of the
construction of the side track would be $1,266.24; that
the interest on the money which plaintiff would have to
expend for the construction of the track, depreciation
charges, necessary maintenance, and operating expenses
would exceed $200 a year, and that compliance with the
order would hamper and delay the plaintiff in the proper

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

operation of its trains and would impose upon it additional costs and expenses, but would not increase its
earnings. The affidavit of the plaintiff's general manager
supports the allegations of the complaint and states that
the patrons of the plaintiff, including the Farmers Warehouse Company, have adequate trackage and depot facilities, not only to take care of present business but of any
probable increase at Smyrna; that the railroad line from
Atlanta to Chattanooga is largely single track; that the
traffic is very heavy, and that the problem of keeping
trains moving promptly is serious and difficult; that, because business does not justify it, the plaintiff does not
have a switch engine at Smyrna, and, if the private siding
were constructed in accordance with the order of the Railroad Commission, plaintiff would have to delay its freight
trains so that the road engines could switch this additional
track thereby delaying the prompt movement of the
trains, and that the track could never be used by others
and would be simply an accommodation fcr one patron,
adding nothing to the earnings of the railroad but considerably increasing its expense. The affidavit of the plaintiff's superintendent also supports the complaint and is
in substance to the same effect. Defendants' answer
states that in"all human probability' the business of the
warehouse will be permanent, and affidavits of directors of
the warehouse company tend to support that statement.
The denial of jurisdictional amount in defendants' answer is not supported by any affidavit in their behalf.
The decision in the District Court states:
The propriety of requiring the construction of this
particular track is alone in issue. The cost in material
and labor is stated in the petition to be but $1,260, and
this amount alone is involved. . . . The cost of future maintenance is not involved now, because that is an
incident of the future use. The maintenance cost for
some years will be slight, and if the business done over

PADUCAH v. PADUCAH RY.
264

267

Syllabus.

the track does not .justify its maintenance, the question
of its abandonment will be open then."
We are unable to agree that the cost in material and
labor is all that is involved in this case. Plaintiff seeks
to be relieved not only from constructing the side track
but also from maintaining it in suitable condition for
use, and from the cost and expense of using 'and operating
it for the movement of cars to and from the warehouse.
The value of all these is involved. Glenwood Light &
Water Co. v. Mutual Light Co., 239 U. S. 121, 125; Berryman v. Board of Trustees of Whitman College, 222 U. S.
334; Bitterman v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 207
U. S. 205, 225; Hunt v. New York Cotton Exchange, 205
U. S. 322, 336. It is shown that the permanent annual
burden on account of interest on such cost, depreciation,
maintenance and operating expenses of such side track
will exceed $200, and this capitalized at a reasonable rate
exceeds $3,000. Laying aside other considerations bearing
upon the matter, 'the amount is shown to be sufficient.
This being so, the District Court should have taken jurisdiction and should have proceeded to determine the merits
of plaintiff's application for a temporary injunction, which
it did not- do.
Order declining jurisdictionvacated with directions
for further proceedings.
CITY OF PADUCAH ET AL. v. PADUCAH
RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE 'UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 243. Argued January 18, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. A city with power to fix the fares chargeable by street railway
companies will not be adjudged to have surrendered any part of
it unless plainly authorized and unmistakably intending to do so.
P. 272.

