WILSON'S EXECUTOR v. DEEN.
Statement of Facts.

WILSON'S EXEOUTOR v. DEEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

TRE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued April 5, 6,1887. -Decided

April 23,1887.

A judgment rendered on the merits in an action in a court of record is a bar
to a second suit between the'same parties on the same cause of action;
and when the second suit involves other matter as w'ell as the matters in
issue in the former action, the former judgment operates as an estoppel
as tothose things which were In issue there, and upon the determination
of which the first verdict was rendered.
Extrinsic evidence, when not inconsistent with the record and not impugning its verity, is admissible at the trial of an action to show that a former
action in a court of record between the same parties, in which judgment
was rendered on the merits, involved matters in issue in the suit on trial,
and were necessarily determined by the first verdict.

ON the 29th of October, 183, Ann Maria Deen, the plaintiff in the court below, leased to one M ary 0. 0. Perry, of
New York, by an instrument under seal, the house known as
No. 4 East Thirtieth Street of that city, with the furniture
therein,, for the term of two years ana ten months from the
first day of November, 1873, at the rent of $450 a month,
payable in advance, with a clause of reentry in case of default
in'the payment of the rent, or inany of the covenants of the
lease.
At the same time, and upon the same paper, the defendant,
William M. Wilson, of New York, in consideration of the letting of the Rremises to the lessee, and of the sum of one dollar
paid to him by the lessor, by an instrument under seal, cove-

nanted and agreed with her, that if default should be made at
any time by the 'lessee in the payment of the rent, and performance of the covenants contained in the lease, he would
pay the rent, or any arrears thereof, and all damages arising
from the non-performance of the covenants.
No 'rent was paid by the lessee except for the first month,
and soon after December, 1873, she ceased to occuipy the
house, and abandoned it. In March, 1874, the lessor gave

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

notice to her that, as she had abandoned the house, and there
was danger of the furniture being injured, possession would be
taken and the premises rented for the remainder of the term;
and that the lessor would look to her for any deficiency in the
rent and for the expenses of reletting, as well as for all damages that might be sustained by reason of the loss of or injury
to the furniture
In April, 1874, the lessor took possession of the premises,
and in November following leased the house, without the furniture, to one Sherman, for two years and five months from
December 1, 18'4, at 83600 a year, payable in half-yearly
payments, in advance.
. For the deficiency of the rent on the original lease, after
deducting the amount collected from the new tenant, the present action was brought against the defendant as guarantor for
the rent.
To the complaint setting forth the lease, the covenant of
guaranty, the new lease, and the deficiency claimed to be due
upon the lease, the defendant answered, denying, among other
things, the allegations of abandonment of the premises by the
lessee, of notice to her of the intention of the lessor to resume
possession, and of the amount dhe; and for a separate defence
alleged that in December IS73, the plaintiff brought an action
in the Marine Court bf the city of New York against the defendant for the rent of the same premises for that month, and
that the defendant recovered judgment therein against the
plaintiff in the action, upon the merits thereof, and for costs.
On the trial, to meet the case established by the plaintiff,
the defendant among other things, gave in evidence the judIgment book of the Marine Court, showing a judgment, enterel
on the 12th of March, 1874, in favor of the defendant William
M. Wilson against ihe plaintiff Ann Maria Deen, for $55.91
costs; and also the judgment roll in the action containing the
summons and complaint, the answer, minutes of the verdict
for the defendant, and the judgment in his favor. The complaint was upon the same lease as that upon which this action
is brought, and was for rent for the month beginning on the
first dpy of December, 1873. The answer, treating the lease

WILSON'S EXECUTOR v. DEEN.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and the covenant upon .it as one instrument, set up that "on
or about the 29th day of October, 1873, the plaintiff, by false
and fraudulent statements, obtained the signature of Mary C.
0. Perry and of this defendant to a paper purporting to be a
lease of the premises described in the complaint; that the said
Mary 0. 0. Perry and this defendant were both misled by the
false representations; and that the said Mary (. C. Perry and
this defendant were induced by their belief in the truth of
such representations to sign the said paper." It was admitted
of record by counsel for the plaintiff that "the only issue
tried" in that action in the Marine Court "was that of fraud
in procuring the lease," and that there was no issue as to the
payment of the rent or as to the delivery of the lease.
When the evidence was ctosad, and the parties had rested,
the defendant moved that the complaint be dismissed," on the
ground that the judgment in the Marine Court was a bar to
the action; but the court denied the motion, and the defendant excepted. Afterwards the court directed the jury to find
a verdict for the plaintiff for $12,026.89, the full amount
claimed, less the rent for the month of December, 1873, which
they accordingly did. To this direction an exception was taken.
-Yrr. .EdwardC. Perkimn and -Mr. John C. Grayfor plaintiff
in error cited: Lumber Co. v. Buchtel, 101 U. S. 638; Beloit
v..A organ, 7 Wall. 619; Gardner v. Buckbee, 3 Cowen, 120; 1
Bouchaud v. Diaz, 3 Denio, 238; Duchess of -ingston's Case,
20 How. St. Tr. 538; Packet Co. v. Sickles, 5 Wall. 580; Peofli v. Long Island Rail.pev. Stephens, 51 How. Pr. 235 ;*Grf
road, 102 N. Y. 449; Tioga Railroad v. Blossbzirg & Corning
Railroad,20 Wall. 137;.Pray v. Hegeman, 98 N. Y. 351; Lorillardv. Clyde, 99 N. Y. 196, 201; Day v. Wfatson, 8 Mich.
535; Rice v. Dudley, 65 Ala. 68; H~all v. G'uld, 13 N. Y.
127; Bain v. Clark, 10 Johns. 424; Colburn v. 3forrill, 117
Mass. 262; ahristopkerv. Austin, 11 N. Y. 216; Stuyvesant v.
Davis, 9 Paige, 427; Jones v. Carter, 15 IA. & W' 718; (ombe
v. Woolf, 1 Moore & Scott, 241; Liquidators of Overend R
Co. v. liquidatorsqf Oriental Corporaion, L. R. 7 H. L.348,
S. C. 15 Am.D4.

250.

528.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

361; Horne v., Bodwe, 5 Gray, 457; Greely v. Dow, 2 Met.
( ass.) 176; ' Ree v. Berrington,2 Ves. Jun. 540; Samuell v.
Ifowarth, 3 Meriv. 273; Gahn v. ffiemcewicz, 11 Wend. 312;
Amory v. RYannofsky, 117 Mass. 351; Hanham v. Sherman,
114 Mass. 19, 23; Davison v. Gent, 1 H. & N. 744; Thomas v.
Cook, 2 B. & Ald. 119; NYiekells v. AtTerstone, 10 Q. B. (N. S.)
944:; Bacon v. Chtesney, 1 Stark, 192; Leeds v. .Dunn, 10 N. Y.
469, 477; Bonar v._2I acdonald, 3 I. L. . 226; Glyn v. PIertel, 8'Taunt. 208;Philips-. Astling, 2 Taunt. 206; Smith v.
Uite,Sitae.8, 2 Wall.' 219, 237, 3rc.3ficken~v. W~ebb, 6 How.
292,.298.
.Al. Joseph A. Shoudy for defendant'. i error. Mr.
.Winaq~was with him on the brief.

enry

I. The answer does 'not contain a denial of th6 abandonMent of the premises 'by Mrs. Perry, the :tenant.'. The only
denial is the concluding paragraph, "of each 'and every other
allegation of the cormplaint contained not hereinbefore idmitted." Such a denial has been repeatedly held to 'raise- no
issue. XcEncroe v. Decker, 58 How. Pr. 250; People 'v.
Siyder, 41 N. Y. 397, 400; People v. -NorthernRailroad Co.,.53
Barb. 98.
II. The learned circuit judge correctly held that if the
judgment in the Marine Court was to be regarded as in full
force, it was not a bar under the issues in this case, except as
to the rent for the inouth of December, 1873, which was "the
subject matter of the controversy in that action. His opinion
contains a clear statement of the law applicable to the case,
as it has been adjudged by this court, as well as by the highest
court of the state of New York. The distinction is there
clearly pointed out between a suit brought to recover the
same identical demand which has been the subject of litigation in a former action, and another -demand of the same
natuie. This cannot be better stated thn by the learned
judge below; and his views seem to be fully sustained by the
two cases in 94 U. S. there referred to. Cromwelt v. Sac, p.
351; Davis v. Brown, p. 493. The same view is adopted and

WILSON'S EXECUTOR v. DEEN.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

enforced by the Court of Appeals of the state of New York in
Afarsh v. Afasterton, 101 N. Y. 401. The gist of that decision, as stated in the head note, is: "That a judgment in a
former suit between the same parties is a bar to a subsequent
action only when the point or question in & ue is the same in
both."
In the suit in the Marine Court it was distinctly asserted
that the, lease never was delivered, and that possession was
never taken thereunder. As to this defence, the Court of Appeals held that proof of contemporaneous or preceding oral
stipulations not embraced in the lease was not admissible
either in law or in equity to affect the covenants or agreements therein contained. Wison v. Deen, 74 N. Y. 531.
IH. The judgment of the Marine Court was not pleaded in
bar to the cause of action alleged in the complaint. The answer in that respect is fatally defective. It is no answer to
this point to say that the proof supplied the defect, even if it
were true, as we submit that it was not. The defence must
be alleged as well as proved. "Facts proved -but not pleaded
are not available to the party proving them." Field v. .3dyor
f -Yew Y'ork, 6 N. Y. 179.1 See also Piattv. Thttier, 9 Pet.
405; Harrisonv. 2Vivon, 9 Pet. 483. It is for the plaintiff in
error to point out distinct and positive error. Otherwise the
judgment below ,will not be disturbed. Every inference and
intendment will be in support of the judgment. -entress v.
Srit, 10 Pet. 161 ; Coffee v. Planters'Bank, 13 =Tow.183, 186.
IV. The judgment in the Marine Court of the state of New
York, although existing upon the record, had in fact been done
away with by the acts and .agreement.of the party. There
was a substantial agreement as to there having been an oral
consent to do away with the proceedings in the Marine Court.
We submit., that this oral consent, having been made in open
court and the substance of it entered upon the minutes of the
court, was as effectual as if it had been in writing. An oral
consent made in open court, although it has reference to proceedings in another cause, will be enforced. t-ewett v. City of
ATlany, Clarke Ch. 241 ; Phillipsv. Wick, 38 N. Y. Super. Ct.
I S. C. 57 Am. Dec. 435.
VOL. Cxx-31

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

74. ,Such. a consent, made in the progress of the trial, constitutes a valid and irrevocable agreement. Causes are tried
every day and the most important matters finally determined
on such consent. This judgment having been once done away
with was forever abrogated. The plaintiff in error was thereafter estopped from making use of it. He received full consideration for the agreement in being permitted to proceed
with the trial of his cause and obtain, as he did then, an adjudication of the court as to the validity of the lease.
V. The judgment in the Marine Court has been wholly anmilled and vacated since the trial of this action by the judgment of the Supreme Court of the state of New York, which
has been carried into effect in the Marine Court by the actual
cancellation of the record there. The defendant in error now
offers exemplified copies of the records in those courts, proving conclusively the facts here stated. This court will not
reverse the judgment by reason of any error which may have
been committed in regard to the effect of that judgment,
which has now been done away, and would be no obstacle to
a recovery on a new trial. The case of PugA v. _1o Comiek,
14 Wall. 361, is in point. This court is not inclined to reverse
a judgment, unless there is some substantial error to the prejudice of the complaining party, and espe6ially not where it appears that the error has become immaterial, and that the same
party will be entitled to judgment if a new trial is granted.
Id., page 374. Records will be received in an appellate court
for the purpose of upholding a judgment, though not for the
narletowm
v. Emerie, 2
purpose of reversing it. Bank of
Sandf. (N. Y.) 118; Jvis
v. SewalU, 40 Barb. 449, 455;
Pockwell V. .Xfemvin, 45 N. Y. 166; Stiewell v. Carpenter,
62 N. Y.'639; lTine. v. The .iayor,'0 N. Y. 613; Dakota v.
Glidden, 113 U. S. 222.
VI. The defendlant in error had a clear legal right to take
possession of the abandoned premises for their preservation,
and for the purpose of rendering the injury to her as light as
possible, and for the same purpose to let them for the account
of the tenant without, in any manner, imparing her obligations under the lease against the surety. It is a well estab-

WILSON'S EXECUTOR v. DEEN.
Opinion of the Court.

lished principle of law that when a person is liable to be
injured by the breach of covenant or wrongful act of another
he is bound to take active measures to render the injury as
light as possible. This is a principle believed to be of universal application. Hamiltonr v. .AfdoPkerson, 28 N. Y. 72; Hecksher v. XeCrea, 24 Wend. 304; Clark v. farsiglia, 1 Denio,
317; 1 Dillon v. Anderson, 43 N. Y. 231; Howard v. Daly, 61.
N. Y. 362; Polk v. -Daly,14 Abb. Pr. (N. S.) 156; lfarrenr v.
Stoddart, 105 U. S. 224.
This principle prevails in admiralty. When the charterer
of a vessel fails to supply cargo, or refuses to perform the
charter party, it is the duty of the 'owner to secure another
freight or a new charter with as little delay as possible.
Baejer v. BJrs, '7Ben. 280; Ashburner v. Balchen, 7 N. Y.
262; Duffle v. Hayes; 15 Johns. 327; Heceescher v. Me(,rea, 24
Wend. 304. There is no good reason why this rule should
not apply to demises of real estate as well as to' other contract
obligations.
VII. In order to effect a termination of the relation of
landlord and tenant, there must be a surrender and acceptance either by act of the parties or operation of the law.
Beal v. White, 94 U. S. 382, 389. There must not only be a
surrender, but an acceptance as well, and in order to constitute an acceptance, the intention of the lessor is material. ,If
the tenant abandons and the landlord relets the premises,
giving the tenant notice that he does it for and on his (the
tenant's) account, the surrender is not established. Peter v.
XYndal, 6 B. & 0. 703; Walls v. 'Atoheson, 3 Bing. 462; Aii-r
v. Penn, 99 Penn. St. 370; Bloomer v.. Merrill, 1 Daly (N.
Y.) 485; Xfeyer v. Smith, 33 Ark. 627.
YIIL There is no ground for the claim on behalf of the
plaintiff in error, that the notice to the tenant and her tacit
assent thereto, worked a change of the contract, releasing the
surety. Morgan, v. n ith, 70 N. Y. 537, is in point and on
this point cannot be distinguished from the present case.
MRfn. JuSTroE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

I S.

C. 43 Am.Dec. 670.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion, of the Court.

The conclusion we have reached as to the effect of the judgnient of the' Marine Court renders it unnecessary to pass
upon, or even to state the other questions raised in the prog-.
ress of the trial. There is nothing in the record tending to
impair the force of that judgment. Notice of appeal from it
to the general term of the court was given, but it does not
appear that the appeal was ever prosecuted. The alleged
parol stipulation by counsel, that the judgment might be
vacated, is not admitted; but, if made, it is not shown to have
been acted upon by any entry on the records of the Marine
Court.' The proceedings in the suit in the Supreme Court to
cancel the lease and the ruling of the Court of Appeals
therein, that evidence of cotemporaneous or preceding oral
stipulations could not be received to control the lease, have
no bearing iLpon the question before us, and the proceedings
in the suit are still pending. As the case stands before us,
the judgment of the Marine Court is in no respect impaired,
and the defendant can invoke in his behalf whatever it concluded between the parties. The validity of the lease in suit
here was involved there. The answer there alleged that, by
false and fraudulent representations, the signature of the
lessee was obtained to the lease, and that both she and the
.defendant Wilson were misled by those representations to
sign the paper. The'parties admitted, that the only issue in
that action was "that of fraud in procuring the lease." That
issue being found by the verdict of the jury in favor of the
defendant, the judgment thereon stands as an adjudication
btween the parties by a court of competent jurisdiction, that
the lease was obtained upon false and fraudulent representations of the plaintiff, and, therefore, was of no obligatory
force. It determined not merely for that case, but for all
cases between the same parties, not only that there was
tothing due for the rent claimed for the month of December,
1813, but that the lease itself was procured by fraud, and
therefore void.
In Crmnwell v..County of Sac,94: U. S. 351, we considered
at much length the operation of a judgment as a. bar against
the prosecution of a second. action upon the same demand.

WILSON'S EXECUTOR v. DEEN.
Opinion of the Court.

and as an estoppel upon the question litigated anddetermine.d
in another action between the same parties upon a different
,demand, and we held, following in this respect a long series of
decisions, that in the former case the judgment, if rendered upon
.the merits, is an absolute bar to a subsequent action, a finality
to the demand in controversy, concluding parties and those in
privity with them; and that in the latter case, that is, where
the second action between the same parties is upon a different
demand, the judgment in the first action operates as an estoppel as to those matters in issue, or points controverted, upon
the determination of which the finding or verdict was rendered. Of the application of this rule Gardrnerv, Vuckbee, 3
Cowen, 120,1 furnishes an illustration. There it appeared that
two notes had been given upon the sale of a ves el. On examination the vessel proved to be unseaworthy, and the
maker of the notes refused to pay them on the ground of
fraudulent representations by the vendor.., Thereupon an
action was brought by the holder upon one of the notes in the
Marine Court of the city of New' York. The defendant
pleaded the general issue, with notice of a total failure of consideration for the notes, on the ground of fraud in the sale of
the vessel, and upon that point judgment was rendered in his
favor. The holder thereupon brought an action upon the
other note in the Court of Common Pleas of the city of New
York, and at the trial the defendant offered in evidence in
bar of the action the record of the judgment in the Mfarine
Court, the defence being fraud in the sale of the vessel, and the
judgment having been rendered directly upon that issue between the same parties. The Court of Common Pleas decided'
that the judgment was not a bar, Uut the Supreme Court of
the state reversed the decision, declaring the law to be well
settled that a judgment of a court of concurrent jurisdiction
directly upon the point is, as a plea or evidence, conclusive
between the same parties upon the same matter directly in
question in another court, referring to and following the rule
laid down by Chief Justice De Grey in the celebrated case of
the Duchess of Kingston. It was urged that the judg'ment in

I S.

0 15 Am. Dec. 256.

534

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the C6Art

the Marine Court did not affirm any particular fact in issue
in the Common Pleas, but was general and indefinite, and
that, from the language of the record, it could not be inferred
whether the two cases were founded upon the same or a
different state of facts; but the court answered that it was
true the record merely showed the pleadings and that judgment was rendered for the defendant, but it showed that it
was competent on the trial to establish the fraud of the plaintiff; and whether fraud was the point upon which the decision
was founded could be proved by extrinsic evidence; and that
the admission of such evidence was not inconsistent with the
record and did not impugn its verity.
This decision has been frequently cited -with approval by
this court and the courts of evety state. It is everywhere
'recognized as correctly applying the law as settled in the
Duchess of Kingston's case. It is not possible to distinguish
it from the one before us. Fraud in procuring the lease, upon
which this action is brought, was the point in issue in the action
in the Marine Court between the same parties, and it having
been found by the verdict of the jury against the plaintiff, and
judgment having been rendered upon that finding, the fact
thus 'established must necessarily defeat any subsequent action
upon the same instrument between those parties. The effect
of the judgment is not at all dependent upon the correctness
of the verdict or finding upon which it was rendered. It not
being set aside by subsequent proceedings, by appeal or otherwise, it was equally effective as an estoppel upon the point
decided, whether the decision was right or wrong. Packet
Co. v. Sickles, 5 1rall. 580; Lumber Co. v. Buektel, 101-U. S. 638;
Tioga Railroad v. .blo,3bu'rg & (rning Railroad,20 Wall:
137; Pray v. ,eg6mcn, 98 NT Y. 351; iZhrian v. V76ittemo e, 5 Gray, 316.
It is stated in the brief of counsel, and it was repeated on
the argument;that the judgment of the Marine Court has
been vacated by the Supreme Court of the state since this
case -was tried, in an action broughf for that purpose. If such
be the fact, it cannot be made available in this court to
obviate an erroneous ruling at the trial.

STANLEY v. SUPERVISORS OF ALBANY.
Statement of Facts.

During the pendency of the case in this court the defendant
below, plaintiff in error here, has died, and the executor of his
estate has been substituted as a party in his place.
Judgment of the court below reversed, and cause remainded
witA direction to awarda new trial.

STANLEY v. SUPERVISORS OF ALBANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE tNITED STATES FOR THE
&ORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued March 15,16, 1887. -Decided

May 2, 1897.

When the case below is tried by a court without a jury, its findings upon
questions of fact are conclusive; and. this court can consider only its
rulings on matters of law properly presented in a bill of exceptions, and
the further question, when the findings are special, whether the facts
found are sufficient to sustain the judgment rendered.
When the statutes of a state provide a board for the correction of errors
and irregularities of assessors in the assessment of property for purposes of taxation, the official action of that body is judicial in character,
and its judgments are not open to attack collaterally.
A party who feels himself aggrieved by overvaluation of his property for
purposes of taxation, and does not resort to the tribunal created by the
state for correction of errors in assessments before levy of the tax, cannot
maintain an action at law to recover the excess of taxes paid beyond
.what should have been levied on a just valuation.

THIS case has once been before this court, and is reported at
105 U. S. 305, to which reference is made for the facts up to
that time. Subsequent to that decision, the plaintiff Stanley
was permitted to amend his complaint. The ground of the
relief sought for, as stated in each count of the amended complaint, except the fourth, was as follows:
"And plaintiff says, upon information anid belief, that the
said pretended assessment was illegal and void. That under
the Constitution and laws of the United States said shares of
stock were not liable to assessment and taxation by state authority, except so far as permission to make such assessment
was given by ยง 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United

