63-1

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

LAWRENCE v. MORGAN'S RAILROAD AND STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
APPEAL FROMd AND

IN

ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE EASTERN DISTRIfCT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted April 21, 1SS7.-Decided May 2, 1887.

Land in Louisiana claimed by L., a citizen of New Jersey, having been
seized on an execution recovered in a state court of Louisiana, L. filed
"a petition of third opposition" under the practice in that state, asking
for an injunction against thie sheriff to restrain the sale. It was stated in
the petition that the state judge of the district was absent from the
state, and an .order of injunction was granted by the clerk of the court
under circumstances set out in the opinion of this court. L. then petitioned for the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court; which was done.
The Circuit Court remanded the cause to the state court. Held, that
under the circumstances no injunction had been granted by the state
court; that the case must be treated as having been taken'to the Circuit
Court to get an injunction; and that it was properly remanded.

from an order remanding a cause to the state court
from which it had been removed. The case is stated in the
APPEAL

opinion of the court.
-Mr. B. R. Forman for appellant and plaintiff in error.
-I.

Men-ry J.

eovy for appellees and defendants in error.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal under ยง 5 of the act of March 3, 1875, c.
137, IS Stat. 470 ,.from an order of the Circuit Court remanding a suit or prod6eding which had been removed from a state
court. The record shows that a Xeri facias had been issued
out of the 19th Judicial District Court for the Parish of St.
Mary, Louisiana, on a judgment in that court at the suit of
Robert Todd, trustee, against Robert B. Lawrence, under
which certain lands claimed by Mrs. Frances E. Lawrence a
citizen of New Jersey, had been seized and advertised for sale
on the second of June, 183, by Minos Gordy, the sheriff of

LAWRENCE v. MORGAN'S RAILROAD, &c., CO.

635

Opinion of the Court.

the county. The judgment had been assigned to Morgan's
Louisiana and Texas Railroad and Steamship Company, a
Louisiana corporation, and on the 31st of Mlay, 1883, Mrs.
Lawrence caused to be prepared what is called in the practice
of the courts of Lousiana a "petition ofthird opposition," to
be filed in the 19th Judicial District Court of the Parish of St.
lary, to restrain Todd, the trustee, the railroad company, and
the sheriff from selling the property under the seizure, claiming it as her own. This is a proceeding authorized by the
Code of Practice of Louisiana, Arts. 395, 396, but it must be
had in the court which rendered the judgment in virtue of
which the seizure has been effected. Art. 397. The .petition
was verified by the oath of Mrs. Lawrence, May .1, and in her
affidavit she stated "that lHon. T. S. Goode, the judge of the
19th Judicial District in and for the Parish of St. Mary, is
,absent from said parish." A bond was also executed on the
same day, such as the Code of Practice required in case of the
allowance of an injunction, and at the foot of the petition, as
printed in the record, is the following:
"Considering the allegations and prayer of the foregoing
petition, it is ordered that the third opposition of the plaintiff
be, and is hereby, allowed to be filed, and that an order and
writs of injunction issue, as prayed for, on plaintiff giving bond
and security, according to law, in the amount equal to onehalf of the claim under which the seizure enjoined was made.
"Granted at Franklin, parish of St. Mlary, this 31st day of

Mlay, A.D. 1883.
"(Signed)

J. B. VERDim, Jr., 07%rk."

All these papers were filed with the clerk of the 19th Judicial District Court on the 1st of June, and also the following:
"PAIsH OF ST. MfA[zR, 1 J~tn, 1883.
"I hereby accept service of the foregoing petition and writ
of injunction herein prayed for, and waive service of citation
on me in the premises.
"(Signed)
M. T. GoP.DY, Sher'f."

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The record also shows a petition by Ms. Lawrence to the
judge of that court, setting forth that she had "sued out of
your honorable court a third opposition, coupled with a writ
of injunction" for the purpose of restraining the sale under the
seizure, as above stated, and praying for the removal of such
suit to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana on account of the citizenship of the parties, she being a citizen of New Jersey, and all the defendants
citizens of Louisiana. At the foot of this petition, as printed
in the record, is the following:
"On. the pleadings and proceedings herein, and on the petition and bond filed herein by plaintiff, Mrs. Frances E. Lawrence, under the provisions of the acts and laws of the United
States to regulate the removal of causes from state courts, and
for other purposes, and on motion of counsel of petitioner in
said case and the foregoing petition, it is ordered that the
security offered by Mrs. Frances E. Lawrence, plaintiff therein,
to wit, Townsend Lawrence, be approved, and that the state
court proceed no further in the, cause, and that this cause be
removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of the State of Louisiana next to be held in
said district.
"Dated this 1st of June, 1883.
F. S. GooDn, Judge."
"(Signed)
The petition for removal and this order were filed with the
clerk of the court on the 2d of June. On the 5th of November following, the suit was entered in the Circuit Court, and,
on the 20th of March, 1884, the defendants moved that it be
remanded. This motion was heard April 5, 1884, and granted
April 7. From the order to that effect this appeal was taken.
Section 720 of the Revised Statutes provides that "the' writ
of injunction shall not be granted by any court of the United
States to stay proceedings in any court of a state, except in
cases where such injunction may be authorized by any ]aw
relating to proceedings inbankruptcy;" and, in Bondurant
v. W'atson, 103 U. S.281, 288, which was a suit removed from

STEAMBOAT CO.

BROCKETT.

Syllal,,..

a state court on the application of the defendant after an injunction staying proceedings in the state court for his benefit
had been granted, it was said: "If Watson had filed his
petition for injunction in the state court, and before it was
allowed had petitioned for a removal of the cause to the
Circuit Court, with the design of applying to that court for
his injunction, the objection to the right of removal would
have force. That would have been an evasion of the statute."
Such clearly is this case. The petition for removal was fied
by the party who brought the suit, and there is nothing whatever in the record .to show that the injunction she asked for
was ever granted by the court or any judge thereof prior to
the removal. The affidavit of Mrs. Lawrence shows that the
judge was absent from the parish at the time'the order-which
is in the record signed by the clerk purpQrts to have been'
gTanted; and we have been referred to no statute or judicial
decision in Louisiana authorizing the clerk to make such an
order in the absence of the judge. Under the circumstances,
therefore, the case is to be treated as having been taken to
the Circuit Court to get an injunction, and not after pne had
been granted. This, we have no hesitation in saying, cannot
be done; and, without deciding whether, under any circunstances, a proceeding such as this was in the state court can
be removed to a Circuit Court, we affirm the order to remand.
Affned.

NEW JERSEY STEABOAT COMPANY v.
BROCKETT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNrITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued April 22, 1887.T-Decided May 2,1887.

When the contract of a common carrier with a passenger assigns to the
latter a particular part of the vessel or vehicle to be occupied by him
during transportation, and he voluntarily occupies a place different from
that contracted for, the carrier Is released from liability for injuries
which necessarily arise from the passenger's change of place; but it

