888.

OCTOBER, 'TERM,' ,88.
.Oplniot, of the Court.

LEHIGH WATER COANY v. EASTO.
ElIiOR 'OTHE SUPEBM COURT (

TESTATE 9OF PENNISYLVANIA.

Argued April 7,1887. -Decided

April 18 1887.

The .provision'in the-Constltution of the United States that f' no State,slbll"
pass any law impairing the obligation of 'contracts" necessarlty refert
to the 'law made after the 'particular c6ntract In suit.
MTli judgment of the-highest court o.a state Involving the enforcement
or interpretafion of a contract is not reviewable in this couIt, under the
clause of the Constitution protecting the' obligation of contracts against
impRli'nment by state legislation, and under the exitin'g statutes defining"
dud regulating its jurisdiction, unless by it terms or necessary Opera-,
tion It gives effect to some provision 0f the state' constitutioi, or. some
legislative enactment of the pfAte claimed by the ,unsuccesslul party to
impair the contract in question. -.

BILL in. equity ini. a state court of Pennsylvania' .to enjohi
the municipal authorities of Easton, PNnnsylvqhia, from con. strupting water wdrks. Decree dismissiak the. bill, which'was
-affirmed by the Supreme Court of the state. The plaintiff
sued out this writ. of error. The Federal que ti n is stated in
the opiniona of the court
-Y. Ednward
tiff in error

: Fox and

X&. Edward . -Fox,J., for plain-

-Mr. Robert I Jones for defendants in error. Xr. Wllianm"
& 1'&7 atriok for the' water commissioners of IEaston, and
.. f&. Fraeik Reede."and M'." Witam Beidelman, for the
borough.of Easton, were with him on the' brief.
ME. JuSTICE

.ARLAx
delivered the opioiion of the court.

For many years prior to June 21, 1880, the Lehigh Water
Company, a corporation organized, under the laws of Pennsylvania, by the pur6hasers at judicial sale of the rights,
powers, privileges, and franchises of the West Ward Company, also a Pennsylvania corporation, maintained a system of

LEHIGH "WATER CO. v. EASTON. '
OQpfnion of -th

Cort.

water works whereby the inhabitants of the borough of
Easton, in that Commonwealth, were supplied with water for'
domestic and business purposes. On that day it accepted the
provisions of an actof the General Assembly of Pennsylvania,
approved April 20, 1874, entitled "An act to provide for the,
Incorporation, and regulation of certain corporations." By
such acceptance it acquired the privileges; imunities, franchises, and powers conferred by the act upon c6rporations
created under it.
It also becanie entitled to the benefit of the third clause of
the 34th section of that act, relating to water and gas companies.
pove
That clause provides:
C"The
right to have and enjoy the franchises and privileges
.of such incorporation within the district or locality covered
by its charter shall be an exclusive one.; and no other company shall be incorpoiated for that purpoie until the said corporati6n shall have from its earnings realized and divided
among its stockholders, during five years, a dividend equal to
eight per entum per annum upon its capital stock: Provided, That the said corpokations shall at all times furnish
pure gas and water, and any citizen'using the same may make
complaint of impurity or deficiency in quantity, or both, to
the court of common pleas of the proper county, by bill fled,'
and after hearing the parties touching the same, the said cqurt,
shall have power to make such order in the premises as may
seem just and equitable, and may dismiss' the complaints or
compel the corporation to correct the evil bomplained'of,$
The seventh clause of the 4ame section provides: "It shall
be lawful at any time after twenty years from the itroduction of ,water or gas, as the case may be, into any place as
aforesaid, for the town, borough, city, or district into which
the said company shall be located, to becomo the owners of
said 'works and the property of said company by paying'therefor the net cost of erecting ind maintaining the same, with'
interest thereon at the rate of ten per centum per annum, deducting from said interest all dividends theretofore declared."
]aws Penn. 184, pp. 73, 93.

OCTOBER TER

,i 1886.

Opinion of the Court.

After the acceptance by the Lehigh Water Company of the
provisions of the act of 1S74, the constituted authorities of the
borough of Easton, in conformity with a vote of its qualified
electors, and under power conferred by acts of the General.
Assembly, approved March 12, 1861, and April 15, 1867, Laws
Penn. 1867, pp. 412, 1253, 1254, determined to construct and
itself maintain a system of public works for supplying its
inhabitants with water.
This suit was brought by the Lehigh Water Company for
the purpose of enjoining the authorities of the borough from
constructing or providing such works or from appropriating
money therefor. The suit proceeds upon these grounds: 1.
That the acts of 1867 ceased to be valid after the adoption of
the present constitution of Pennsylvania. 2. That the Lehigh
-Water Company acquired, by the act of 1874, the exclusive
right to erect and maintain water works for supplying water
to the inhabitants of Easton. 3. That the acts of 1867, if not
superseded by the constitution of Pennsylvania, impaired the
obligation of the contract created between that commonwealth
and the company, by the latter's acceptance of the provisions
of .the act of 1874; consequently, they were void under thNational Constitution.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, affirming the judgment of the court of original jurisdiction dismissing the suit,
held that the exclusive right acquired by the Lehigh Water
Company, under the act of 1874, was exclusive only against
other private water companies, and that the legislation did
not intend to prohibit a city, borough, or other municipal corporation from providing its inhabitants with water by means
of works constructed by itself from money in its own treasury; also, that the acts of 1861 were neither repealed by the
act of 1874, nor superseded by the state constitution.
In reference to the remaining ground relied upon by the
company the state court said:
"The third ground of objection is wholly without merit.
By constructing water works of its own the borough will not
destroy the franchises of the plaintiff company. It may impair their value, and probably will do so; but of this the comn-

hEHIGI

"WATER CO. v. EASTON-.

. 3k
3

Opinion of the Court.

pany have no legal cause of -complaint. The granting of a
new charter to a new corporation may sometimes render valueless the franchises of a. existing corporation; but unless
the state by contract has precluded itself from such 'new grant
the incidental injury can constitute no obstacle. Carlme
River Bridge v. Marren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420; Tuwirnvi Co.
v. Y7e State of )1faryhlnd,'3 Wall. 210; 1 iscatau Bridge
v. Tew Hamoslire Bridge, 7 N. H. 35. No contract has
been shown between the water company and the state by
which the latter is precluded from granting to the borough of
Easton the privilege of erecting works to supply its citizens
with water." Lehigh. Vater Co.'8 AppeaZ, 1Q2 Penn. St. 515,
528.
The only question presented by the record which this court
can properly 6onsider is, whether the judgment below denies
to the plaintiff in error any right or privilege secured by that
provision of the Constitution of the United States which declares tbat "no state shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts." ,Obviously, this clause cannot be invoked
for the reversal of the judgment below. It is equally clear
that the law of the state to which the Constitution refers in
that clause must be one enacted after the making of the contract, the obligation of which is claimed to be impaired.
Neither the Lehigh Water Company iior its predecessor had,
tinder any.statute enacted prior to 1874, 4n exclusive right to
maintain water works in the borough of Easton for supplying.
its inhabitants with water. Nor did the grant to the-borough,
in the acfs of 1861, of the power to construct and maintain
a system of public water works, infringe any right or privilege which the plaintiff in error the had under'its charter.
But the claim is, that the exclusive privilege acquired by the
company under the statute of 1874 was impaired in value by
the acts passed in 1867. It cannot, however, with propriety,
be said that the obligation of a contract made with the state
in 1874 was impaired by statutes enacted in 1867. Whether
the former repealed, by implication, the acts of 1861, presents
no question arising under the National Constitution. That is
a question -simply of statutory construction which the state

'OOTOBER TEhM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

court was competent to determine, and whose judgment, in.
respect thereto is not subject to refxamination in this court.
Had the borough of' Easton been authorized by a statute
enacted after the Lehigh Water Company had acquired the
exclusive privilege given by the act of. 1874, then this court
-would have been compelled to decide, upon its independent
'judgment, whether the latter applied only to private corporati6ns;. for, in such case, the determination of that question
would be involved in the inquiry whether there was a contract
between the state and the company, and, if there was a contract, whether its obligation Was. impaired by a law subsequently enacted. Iouisville Gas Co. v. Citizens' Gas Co., 115
'U. S. 683, 697.
The argument in behalf of the company seems to rest upon
the general idea that this court, under the statutes defining its
appellate jurisdiction, may refxamine the judgment of the
state court, in every case involving the enforcement of contracts. But this view is unsound. The state court may rroneously determine questions arising under a contract which
constitutes the basis of the suit before it; it may hold a contract void which, in our opinion, is valid; it may adjudge a
contract to be valid' which, in our opinion, is void.; or its interpretation of the contract may, in our opinion, be radically
wrong; but, in neither of such cases, would the judgment bp
reviewable by this court under the clause of the Constituticn
protecting the obligation of contracts against impairment by
state legislation, and under the existing statutes defining.and
regulating its jurisdiction, unless that judgment, in. terms or
by its necessary operation, gives effect to some provision of
the state constitution, or some legislative enactment of the
state, which is claimed by the unsuccessful party to impair the
obligation of the particular contract in question. RailroadCompany v. Rook, 4 Wall. 177, 181; Railroad Company V.
MeClure, 10 Wall. 511, 515; Knox v. Ehange Bank, 12
Wall. 379, 383; Delmas v. .ns Co., 14 Wall. 661, 665; Universiy v. People, 99 U., S. 309, 319; Chicago Life
. Co., v.
-Yeedl s, 113 U. S. 574, 582.
The judgmxnnt is
A4ffirmed..

