OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

mation. It was so decided by this court, after this case was
certified up by the Circuit Court, in Ex jprte WIson, 114
U. S. 417, and Mackin v. United States, 117 U. S. 348.

As

the judgment of the District Court must be reversed for this
cause, the questions certified have become immaterial, and
their determination unnecessary in the final disposition of the
case. We, therefore, remand the case without answering
Reversed.

them.

CHURCH v. KELSEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREIE COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Submitted March 28, 1887.-Decided April 18, 1887.

The Constitution of the United States does not jrevent a state from giving
to its courts of equity power to hear and determine a suit .brought by
the holder of an equitable interest in land to establish his rights agaiust
the holder of the legal title.
A state constitution is not a contract within the meaning of that clause of
the Constitution of the United States which prohibits the States from
passing laws impairing the obligation of contracts

Tnis was a motion to dismiss, to which was united a motion
to affirm. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
lb'. Cakpin Brown for the motions.
.21. A. ieketts opposing.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

WsATE delivered the opinion of the court.

If we understand correctly the questions on which, it is
claimed, our jurisdiction in this case rests, they are: 1. That
the provision in ยง 1, Art. XIV of the Amendments to the
Constitution of the United States, that a state shall not "deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law," prevents the State of Pennsylvania from giving
jurisdiction to a court of equity of a suit brought by the

CHURCH v. IZELSEY.
Opinion of the Court.

owner of an equitable interest in land to establish his rights
against the holder of the legal title, because it deprives the
holder of the legal title of the right to a trial by jury which
he would have in a suit at law; and, 2. That, as the constitution of a state is the "fundamental contract made between
the collective body of citizens of the state and each individual
citizen," a state statute which violates a state constitution is a
"law impairing the obligation of contracts" within the meaning of that term as used in Art. I, ยง 10, clause 1, of the Constitution of the United States.
It sufficiently appears from the record that the first of
these questions was actually presented to and decided by the
court below adversely to the claim of the plaintiffs in error.
That is sufficient to give us jurisdiction; but the decision was
so clearly right that it is unnecessary to keep the case here for
further argument. Certainly the provision of the Constitution
referred to cannot have the effect of taking away from the
states the power of giving a court of equity jurisdiction in
cases requiring equitable relief. It may be true that in Pennsylvania "equity powers have been doled out to the courts by
the legislature with a sparing hand," but there is nothing in
the Constitution of the United States which requires that this
should always be so. The suit of which complaint is made in
this case was brought to establish a trust in the holder of the
legal title, which from the immemorial has been a proper
subject of chancery jurisdiction. It is useless to contend that
the Constitution of the United States prevents any state from
giving a court of equity the power to hear and (letermine
such a case. This has not been doubted in the courts of
Peansylvania, as we understand. lVorth Penn. Coal Co. v.
S'nowden, 42 Penn. St. 488, 492.1
We cannot find that the otler question was actually presented to the state court for decision. Certainly it cannot be
found in the record in the form it has been stated in the brief
of counsel here. But if it had been, no argument would be
needed to show that the objection was not well taken. -A
state COLstitution is not a contract within the meaning- of that
'S. C. 82 A... Dee. 530.

OCTOBER .TERM, 1886.
Counsel for Parties.

clause of the Constitution of the United States which prohibits the states from passing laws impairing the obligation of
contracts. It .is the fundamental law adopted by the people
for their government in a State of the United States, and as
such it may be construed and carried -into effect by the courts
of the State, without review by this court, except -in cases
where what is done comes, or is supposed to come, in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States. Such is not the
claim here,' the only question under this branch of the case
being whether the statute giving jurisdiction to the court of
equity in the suit under. which the defendants in error claim
title is in violation of the constitution of the state.
T) e motion to dismiss is overruled,, and that to affim
granted.

LOUISIANA BANK e. WHITNEY.
BOARD OF LIQUIDATION OF NEW ORLEANS v.
SAME.
ERROR TO AND APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted April 11, 1887.-Decided April 18,1887.

An order of court directing the payment into the registry of the court of a
garnishee fund, claimed by a third party, pending the determination of
the right to it, is not a final judgment or decree within the meaning of
that term as used in the acts of Congress giving this court jurisdiction on
appeals and writs of error.

Tis was a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mr. Twmas J Semmes and
motion.

The

r. Ayfred Goldthwaite for the

X... Henry C. Miller opposing.

