'13:8

OCTOBER TERI,' 1886.
SSyllabus.

,kn6wledge. of all thematerial facts attending their issue; none

of estoppil, because there was no evidence of any acts of the
town; which the plaintiff had a legal right to rely upon, or did
in fact rely upon, -in taking these notes. The jury having been
instructed otherwise, the
Judgment must be reversed, and the case remanded to the
Circuit Court with directions to set aside the verdict and
:to order a new trial.

MEROANTILE BANK v. N-EW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT
THE SOUTHERN

COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued March 11, 12, 1887.- Decded April 4, 1887.

The main purpose of Congress in fixing limits to state taxation on investinents in shares of national banks was, to render it impossible for the
state, in levying such a tax, to create and foster an unequal and unfriendly competition, by favoring institutions or individuals carrying on
a similar business, and operatiohis and investments of like character.
The term "moneyed capital;" as used in Rev. Stat. § 5219, respecting state
taxation of shares in national banks, embraces capital employed in national banks, and capital employed by ifdividuals when the object .of
their business is the making of profit by the use of their moneyed capital as money- as in banking as that business is defined in the opinion
of the court; 1but it does not include moneyed capital in the hands of a
corporation, even if its business be such as to make its shares moneyed
Capital when in the hands of individuals, or if it invests its capital in
securities payable in money.
The mode of taxation adopted by the State of New York in reference to its
corporations, excluding trust companies and savings- banks, does not
operate in such a way as to make the tax assessed upon shares of national banks at a greater rate than that imposed upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens.
Although trust companies created under the laws of' New Ybrk are not
banks in"the commercial sense of the word, shares in such companies
are moneyed capital in the hands of individuals: but as these companies are taxed upon the value of their capital stock, with deductions on
accQunt of property in which it is invested either otherwise taxed or
not taxable, and are additionally taxed upon their income by way of

MERCANTILE BANK v. NEW YORK.
Statement of :Facts.
franchise tax, it does not appear that the rate of taxation thus imposed
by the laws of New York is less than that upon shares in national banks.
Deposits in savings banks are exempted from state taxation for just reasons, and, as the exemption does not operate as an unfriendly discrimination against investments in national bank shares, it cannot affect the
rule for the taxation of the latter.
The amount of bonds of the city of New York which are exempt from
taxation under state laws is too small, as compared with the whole
Amount of personal property and 6redits which are thp subject 'of .taxation, to affect, under Rev. Stat. § 5219, the validity of an assessment.
The bonds of municipal corporations are not within the reason of the rule
established by Congress for the taxation of national banks.

THE bill in this case was fied by the appellant, an association organized as a national bank, in the city of New York,
the object and prayer of which were to restrain the collection
of ta&xes assessed upon its stockholders in respect to their
shares therein, on the ground that the taxes assessed and
sought to be collected by the defendants were illegal and void
under § 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United. States, as
being at a greater rate than those assessed under the laws of
New York upon other moneyed capital in the hands of tbh
individual citizens of that state. The assessment in question
was made for the year 1885, by the proper officer, acting in'
pursuance of § 312 of an act of the legislature of the State
of New York, passed July 1, 1882, entitled "An act to revise
the statutes of this state relating to banks, banking and trust
companies," which reads as follows:
-.

"SEc. 312. The stockholders in evry bank or banking asso-

ciation organized under the authority of this State, or of the'
United States, shall be assessed and taxed on the valua of"
'their shares of stock therein; said shares shall be included in
the valuation of the personal property of such stockholders in
the assessment of taxes at the place, city, town or ward where
such bank or banking association is located, and not elsewhere,
whether the said stockholders: reside in. said place, city, town
or ward or not; but in the assessment of said shares, each
stockholder shall be allowed all the deductions and exceptions
allowed by law in assessing the value of other taxable personal
property owned by individual citizens of this, State, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

assessment and taxation shall not be at a greater rate than is
made or assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of
individual citizens of this State. In making such assessment
there .shall also be deducted from the value of such shares such
sum as is in the same proportion to such value as is the assessed' value of the real estate of the bank or banking association, and in which any portion of their capital is invested, in,
which said shares are held, to the whole amount of the capital
stock of said bank or banking association. 'Nothing herein
contained shall be held or construed to exempt the real estate
of banks or banking associations froni either. State, county or
municipal taxes, but the same shall be subject to State, county,
municipal and other taxation to the same extent and rate, and
in the same manner according to its value, as other real estate
is taxed. The local authorities charged by law with the dssessment of the said -shares shall, within ten days after they
have completed such assessment, give written notice to each
bank or banking association of such assessment of the shares
of its respective shareholders, and no personal or other notice
to such shareholders of such assessment shall be 'necessary for
the purpose of this act."
The hearing in the Circuit Court was had upon an agreed
statement of facts, as follows:
. "It is hereby stipulated and agreed by and between the
parties to the above entitled suit, that, for the purpose of the trial
of this cause, the facts hereinafter stated are tiue, and that
the cause- be submitted for trial and decree upon such statement 91one, together with the pleadings:
"1. That the complainant, on the second Monday of January,
A.D. 1885, and for several nonths prior thereto, had a capital stock of the par value of $1,000,000 and a surplus fund of
$200,000; that nearly the whole of said capital and surplus
fund was, during that period, invested in bonds of the United
States of the par value of $949,000, and'of a market value
and cost largely exceeding that sum; that its shares of stock
were each of the par value of $100 and of .the number of
10,000, and were then held by 142 persons and corporations,
50 of whom, owning 187 shares, were residents of states

MERCANTILE..BA'NK v. NEW YORK.
Statement of. Facts.

other than the State of New York, and the remainder res:
dents of the State of New York.'
"'2. That, on the. second Monday of January, '18 5, the proper tax officers of the city of New York, acting .i4der
c. 409. of the laws of 1882 of the State of New .York,-,di&d
value and assess-for taxation the shares of stock of said batik
.against the -individual shareholders thereof, at the rate of
$89 per share, after deducting the proportion of the assessed
value of the real estate of isaid:bank applicable to each shara
of stock, as by law required, making the total gross valuatldn
..
of said- shares in the hands of the shareholders the sum of $890,000, from-which sum the debts of sundry indebted stock-..
holders, amounting to $89,128;" 'Were deducted, as by. law
allowed, leaving-the total valuation of said shares agaiist said
stopkholders upon which taxes were thereaftjer assessed the
sum of $800,872..
"3. That,. on the second Monday of January,. 1885, the
aggregate- actual value of the shares of stock of tie-incorporated moneyed and stock c6rporations ,ncorporatd'by the
laws'of the State of New York deriving an income or .profit
from their capital or otherwise (not including life. insuranace
companies, trust companies, banks, or banking associations,
organized under the authority of this state or of the United
States) amounted to the sum of $755,018,892; that 'Exhibit
4,' hereto app6nded and made a part of this agreement, cdntains a list of the corporations whose shares of capital stock
are embraced in said sum-of $755,018,892, and also shows the
*total par value of the shares of capital stock of each of said
corporations.
"4. That, .at the period aforesaid, the aggregate actual,
value of the shares of stock of the life insurance companies
incorporated uder the laws of this state amounted to the sum
of $3,540,000, and at the same period the aggregate value of
the personal property of said companies,, consisting of mort-.
gages, loans with collateral security, state, county, and mamicipal bonds, and railroad bonds and shares of stock of corporations (but not including the bonds .of the United States nor
the shares of corporations created by the State of New York),

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

amounted to $195,251,305; all of which is shown in detail in
the schedule hereto annexed, marked ' Exhibit B.'
"C5. That, af the said period, the aggregate actual value of
the shares of- the capital stock of the trust companies existing in the State of New York .and organized under its laws
amounted to $32,018,900, as is sbown in detail in the schedule
hereto annexed, marked 'Exhibit C,' of which sum the amount
of $30,215,900 was, of trust companies located in the city of
New York.
"6. That, at the same period, the aggregate actual value
of the deposits clue by the savings banks of this state to depositors was $437,107,501 (not including the surplus accumulated
by the said corporations, amounting to $68,669,001).
"7. That the aggregate actual value of the bonds and
stocks issued by the city of New York, subject to the provisions of c. 552 of the laws of 1880, at the said period, amounted
to $13,467,000.
". That the aggregate actual value at the same period of
'the shares of stock of corporations created by states other
than the State of N ew York, owned by the citizens of the
State of Nvew York, amounted to at least the sum of $250,000,000.
"9. The assessed valuation of all personal property, after
making the deductions allowed by law, in the city of New
York (at the said period), as shown by the annual record of
the assessed valuation of real and personal estate of the said
city for the year 1885, was $202,673,806. This sum included
the capital of corporations, (after making deductions for investments thereof in real estate, shares of New York corporations,
taxable. upon their capital stock under *thelaws of this state,
and non-taxable securities,) as follows:
Insurance companies..
. . . ... . . . . $2,146,379
Trust companies ...
......
.
......
156,506
Miscellaneous companies ..
.....
...
29,234,409
Railroad companies ...
...........
..
12,339,871
"it also included:
Shares of national banks ..
.........
...
45,046,074
Shares of state banks ...
..........
.
15,700,220

AMERCANTILE BANK v. NEW YORK.
Statement of. Facts.

"The sum so deducted for the value of the real estate belonging to said trust companies located in the city of New
York did not exceed $2,336,572.31.
The assessed value of the real estate in said
......
$1,168,443,137
city for said period is ......
And in the said state, including the city of
...
2,761,9 73,845
...........
New York, is ...
340,000,000
The latter sum including the sum of about .
being the assessed value of the real estate located in said state
belonging to corporations.
"The 'aggregate amount of the taxable personal estate'
within the State of New York, exclusive of said city, after
deducting debts due by the owners thereof for the year ending December 31, 1884, as assessed by the assessors and returned to the state comptroller, is $151,632,369.
"This sum included the capital of corporations, (after making the deductions for investments thereof in real estate, shares
of New York corporations taxable upon their capital stock
under the laws of this state, and nc-n-taxable securities,) of
the amount of $34,466,612.
The aggregate capital stock, taken at par, of the
national banks outside of* the city of NewYork, but within the State of New York, on
December 20, 1884, as shown by the report of
the Comptroller of the Currency of the United
..
$36,804,160
.............
States, was ....
And that of state banks, outside of the said city,
but within said state, as shown by the report
8,128,000
of the bank superintendent of New York, is .
644,932,160
Total (outside of New York City) .
The total par value of the shares of national
banks in said state, inoluding the city of New
.. $83,054,160
York, for the period aforesaid, is .......
32.815,700.
.......
.
And of the state banks .....

"10. That it is te intention of the defendants, unless restrained by injunction, to collect the said tax levied by them

OCTOBER TERM, ,1886.,
Argument for Appellee.

againsi the shareholders of the said complainant upon said
,shares by the use of all needful legal process.
"11. That any statutes of the United States or
of the State
of New York-may be cited and relied upon before the said.
court as if herein fully set forth."
.From a decree dismissing the bill the present appeal was
piosecuted.
.21. Charles W. Wells (with whom was -Mn. Frederick
W.
WFdI7,idge and Afr. Willard Brown), for appellant, cited: Hopburm v. Sclwol DThectors, 23 Wall. 480; Adams v. NVashville; 95
U. S. 19; People v. Weaver, 100 E. S. 539; Cummings v. Ivationa Bank, 101 U. S. 153; -Evansville Bank7 v. Britton, 105
U. S. 322; Boyer v. Boyer, 113 U. S. 689; FirstNfat. BahTk of
Utica v. Waters, 7 Fed. Rep. 152; Stratton v. Collins, 43 N. J.
Law (14 Vroom), 562; .cYahon v. Palmer, 102 N. Y. 176;
Van Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Wall. 573; Farrinitonv. Tennessee, 95 U..S. 679; Sturges v. Carter,' 114 U. S. 511; -New
Orleans v. Bouston, 119 U. S. 265; Albany City -Nat.Bank v.
-aher, 6 Fed. Rep. "417; Commonwealth v. Hamilton Co., 12
Allen, 298; People v. Barto?, 29 Row, 1Pr. 371; Porterv. Railroad Co., 76 Ill. 561; Bradley' v. l7te People, 4 Wall. 459;
P ople v. Comissioners, 4 Wall. 244; People ex .rel &c. v.
Davenport,91 N. Y. 57-4; P7.eople ex rel. &c. v. Beers, 67 How.
Fr. 219 ; People v. _Meclanice Savings Institution, 92 N. Y. 7;
Peqple ex rel. Trowbridge v. Commissioners, 4 Hi~u, 595; Peop14 ex ret. Pao. -ail Steamshi Co. v. Commissioners, 5 Hun,
200.
2'. James C. -Carter, for appellee, cited: -Boyer v. Boyer,
113 U. S. 689; Tran Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Wall. 573;
People v Commissioners, 4 Wall. 244; Nat. .Exchange Bank
v. Wells, 18: Blatchford 478 ;-People v.- Weaver, 100 U. S.
'539; Tennessee v. Whitworth, 117 U. S. 129; First Nat.
Bank of Utica v. Water, 19 Bl 4 tchford, 239; Evansville
Bank, v. Britton, 105 U. S. 322; Oswego Starch Factory v.
"Dolloioay,21 N. Y. 449 ; People e reZ. &c. v. Commissioner
of Taxes, 95 N. Y. 554; People ex rd. &c. v. Davenport, 91

MERCANTILE BANK u,. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

NfT. Y. 574; People v. Flre A886diatiJ, 92 N. Y. 311;: icksburg &a. 1R 'foadv. Denni8, 116 U. S.665; Adamnz v. -c-shAOzbu v. Scool Diretoirs,23 Wall. 480.
vile, 95 U. S.19; .t'
if.

JusTxc0

:MIA'iws, after stating the case as above

reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
Section 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the Unitc1 States
is as follows:
1 Nothing herein shall prevent all the shares in any associatior from being included in the valuation of the personal
property of the owmer or holder of such shares in assessing
taxes imposed by authority of the -State within which the
association-is located; but the legislature of each state may
determine and direct the manner and place of taxing all the
shares of national banking associations located within the
State, subject only to the -two restrictions that the taxation
shall not be at a greater rate than is assessed upon other
moneyed capital in the hands -of individual citizens of such
state, and that the shares of any national banking association
owned by non-residents of any state shall be taxed in the city
or town where the bank is located) and not elsewhere. N~othing herein shall be construed to exempt the real property of
associations from either state, county, or municipal taxes to
the same extent, according to its value, as other real property
is taxed."
In the present case no question is raised by the appellant as
to the validity of § 312, q.409, o the Laws of New York of
1882, considered by itself, nor in reference to the rule of valuation or assessment which it prescribes. No exception is
taken to the form of the assessment, nor is the case based in
any degree upon the dereliction of the dssessing officers in the
discharge of their duties, there being no allegation 'and no
proof that they have not performed their whole duty under
the statutes of the State. "
The proposition which the appellant seeks to establish is,
that the State of New York, in seeking to tax national bank
shares, has not complied with the condition contained in
VOL.

xxi-L10

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

§ 5219 of the Revised Statutes, that such taxation shall not
be at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of such state, "in that,
it has by its legislation expressly exempted from all taxes in
the hands of the individual citizens numerous species of
moneyed capital, aggregating in actual value the §s1m of
$1,686,000,000, whilst it has by its laws subjected national
bank shares in the bands of individual holders thereof (iggregating a par value of $83,000,000), and state.bank shares
(having a like value of $22,815,700), to taxation upon their
full actual value, less only a proportionate amount of the real
estate owned by the bank." This exemption, it is claimed, is
of a "very material part relatively" of the whole, and renders the taxation of national bank shares void.
The exemptions thus referred to are classified as follows:
1st. The shares of stock in the hands of the individual
shareholders of all incorporated "moneyed or stock corporations deriving an income or. profit from their capital or other'wise, incorporated by the laws of New York, not including
trust companies and life insurance companies, and state or
national banks." The value, of such shares, it is admitted,
ambunts to $755,Q18,892.
2d. Trust companies and life insurance companies. The
actual value of the shares of stock in trust companies amounts
to $32,018,900, and the actual value of the shares in life insurance companies amounts to $3,540,000, which life insurance
companies, it is admitted, are the owners of personal property
consisting of mortgages, loans, stocks, and bonds to the value
of $195,257,305.
3d. Savings banks and the deposits therein. The deposits
amount to $437,107,501, and an qcumulated surplus to
$68,669,001.
4th. Certain municipal bonds issued by the city of lNew
York under an act passed in 1880, of the value of 813,46T,000.
5th. Shares of stocks in corporations created by states
other than New YorlZ in the hands of individual holders,
residents of said state, amounting to $250,000,000.
It is argued by the appellant that these exemptions bring

MERCANTILE BANK v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

the case within the decision, of Boyer v. Boyer, 113 U. S. 689.
In that case, referring to the legislation of Pennsylvania, it
was said: "The burden of county taxation imposed by the
latter act has at all events been removed from all bonds or
certificates of loan issued by any railroad company incorporated by the State; from shares of stock in the hands of stockholders of any institution or company of the State which in
its corporate capacity is liable to pay a tax into the State
treasury under the act of 1859; from mortgages, judgments,
and recognizances of every kind; from moneys due or owing
upon articles of agreement for the sale of real estate; from
all loans, however made, by corporations which are taxable
for state purposes when such corporations pay into the State
treasury the required tax on such indebtedness."
This enumeration of exempted property, the amounts of
which were stated in the bill and admitted by the demurrer,
was held to include such a material portion relatively of the
moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens as to make
the tax upon the shares of national banks an unfair discrimination against that class of property, but no attempt was
made in the opinion of the court to define the meaning of the
words "moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens"
as used in the statute, or to enumerate all the various kinds of
property or investments that came within its descriptioi, or
to show that shares of stock in the hands of stockholders of
every institution, company, or corporation of a state, having
a capital employed for the purpose of earning dividends or
profits for its stockholders, were taxable as moneyed capital in
the hands of individual citizens.
It is accordingly contended on behalf of the appellees in
the present case, 1st, that the shares of stock in the various
companies incorporated by the laws of New York as moneyed
or -stock corporations, deriving an income or profit from their
capital or otherwise, including trust companies, life insurance
companies, and savings banks, are not moneyed capital in the
hands of the individual citizen within the meaning of the ac
of Congress; 2d, that if any of them are, then the corporations
themselves are taxed under the laws of INew York in, such a

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

manner and to such an extent that the shares of stock therein '
are hi fact subject to a- tax equal to that whichY is assessed upon
shares of national banks; and 3d, that if there are any excef!
tions, they are immaterial in amount and based upon considerations which exclude them from the operation of the rule of
relative taxation intended by the act of Congress.
In view of the nature of the contention between the parties
to this suit, and the extent and value of the interests involved,
it becomes necessary to review with.clar'lhe previous decisions
of this court upon the same subject, and to endeavor to state
with precision the rule of relative taxation prescribed to the
states by Congress on shares of national banks.
. The national banking act of 1864, 13 Stat. 111, in addition
to the restrictions now imposed upon the state taxation of
national bank shares, declared "that the tax so imposed, under
the laws of any state, upon the shares of any of the. associations authorized by this act, shall not exceed the rate imposed
upon the shares in any of the banks organized under the
authority of the State, where such association is located." In
the reenactment of this statute in 1868, 15 Stat. 34, this proviso was omitted. The case of 'Fan Allen v. Tk6 .Asessors, 3
Wall. 573, was decided under the act of 1864 as originally
enacted. In that case, the taxing law of New York, which
was in .question, was held to be invalid, because it levied no
taxes upon shares in state banks at all, the tax being assessed
upon the capital of the banks after deducting that portion
which was invested in securities of the United States; and it
was held that this tax on the capital was not a tax on the
shares of the stockholders equivalent to that on the- shares in
national banks. It was also decided in that case that it was
competent for the states, under the permission of Congress, to
tax the shares of national bank stock held by individuals, notwithstanding: the capital of the bank was invested in bonds of
the United States which were not subject to taxation.
It'appears, therefore, as the result of the decision in that
case, that a tax upon the capital of a state bank, levied upon
the value thereof, a.fter deducting such part as was invested
in-ion-tc able goveriifaent 1onds, was less than an equivalent

MERCANTILE BANK v. NEW YORK.

•149.

Opinion of the Court.

for a tax upon the shares of national banks from which no
such deduction was permitted. Accordingly, in the case of
People v. Commissioners, 4 Wall. 244, the complaint was. made

on behalf of individual owners of national bank stock taxed in
New York, that no deduction was permitted to them from the
value of their shares on account of the capital of the bank
being invested in non-taxable government bonds, while such
deduction was allowed in favor of insurance companies and individuals in the assessment for taxation of the value of their
personal property; and it was contended, therefore, that the
relators in that case were taxed upon their shares of national
bank stock at a greater rate than was assessed upon other
moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizen's. In. reference to this supposed inequality the court said: "The answer
is, that, upon a true construction of this clause of the act, the
meaning and intent of the law-makers were, that the rate of
taxation of the shares should be the same or not greater than
upon the moneyed capital of the individual citizen, which is
subject oiliable to taxation. That is, no greater proportion
or percentage of tax in the valuation of the shares should be
levied than upon other moneyed. taxable capital in the hands
of the citizens. This rule seems to be as effectual a test to
prevent unjust discrimination against the shareholders as could
well be devised. It embraces a class which constitutes the
body politic of the state, who make its laws and provide for
its taxes. They cannot be greater than the citizens impose
upon themselves. It is known as sound policy that in every
well-regulated and enlightened state or government, certain
descriptions of' property and also certain institutions, - suoh as
churches, hospitals, academies, cemeteries, and the like,- are
exempt from taxation; but these exemptions have never been
regarded as disturbing the rates of taxation, even where the
fundamental law had ordained that it should be uniform" (p.
256). The court then proceeded to show tfiat the exclusion, as
the subject of taxation, of government securities held by individuals, from their moneyed capital, was by authority of the
United States, and hence it would be a contradiction to infer
that Congress meant to include the same government securities

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

as a part of that moneyed capital which it required to be taxed
by the states at a rate equal, to that, imposed by the latter
upon the shares held by individuals of national bank stock.
The other objection taken to the validity of the tax complained of was, that insurance companies created under the
laws of the state were authorized to deduct-from the amount
of their capital and surplus profits, for .purposes of taxation,
such part as was invested in United States securities. In reference to this the court said:. "The answer is, that this clause
does not refer to the rate of assessments upon insurance companies as a test by which to preveiit discrimination against the
shares; that is, confined to the rate of assessments upon moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens. These institutions are not within the words or the contemplation of
Congress; but even if they were, the answer we have already
given to the deduction of these securities in the assessment
of. the property of individual citizens is equally applicable to
thein'7 (p. 257).
In Lionberger v. Rouse, 9 Wall. 468, it was held that the
proviso originally contained in the act of 1861, and omitted
from the act of 1868, expressly referring to state banks, was
limited to state banks of issue.

The court said (p. 474):

"There was nothing to fear from banks of discount and deposit merely, for in no event could they work any displacemen.t of national bank circulation." OQf course, so far as
investments in such banks are moneyed capital in the hands
of individuals, they are included in the clause as it now stands.
In the case of HTcpbun. v. School Directors,23 Wall. 480, it
was decided to be competent for the state to value, for taxation, shares of stock in a national bank at their actual value,
even if in excess of their par value, provided thereby they were
not taxed at a greater rate than was assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of the State.
It was a further question in that case whether the exemption
from taxation by statute of "all mortgages, judgments, recognizances, and moneys owing upon articles of agreement for the
sale of real estate', made the taxation of shares in national
banks unequal and invalid. This was decided in the negative

MERCANTILE BANK v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

on the two groumds, ist, that the exemption was founded upon
the just reason of preventing a double burden by the taxation
both of property and of the debts secured upon .t; and 2d,
because it was partial only, not operating as a discriminati6n
against investments in national bank shares. The court said:
"It could not have been the intention of Congress to exempt
bank shares from taxation because some moneyed capital was
e. -apt" (p. 485).
e subject was further considered in the case of Adaw v.
Na kv 7e, 95 U. S. 19.. One of the questions in that case had
ref 3nce to an exemption from taxation by state authority of
interest-paying bonds issued by-the municipal corporation of
t66 oity of Nashville, in the hands of individuals. It was held
that the exemption did not invalidate the assessment upon the
shar~s of national banks. The court said (p. 22): "The act
of Congress was not intended to curtail the state power on the
subject of taxation. It simply required that capital invested
in n4aonal banks should not be taxed at a greater rate than
like property similarly invested. It was not intended to cut
off this power to exempt particular kinds of property, if the
legislature chose to do so. Homesteads to a specified value,
a certain amount of household furniture, (the six plates, six
knives and forks, six teacups and saucers of the old statutes,)
the property of clergymen to -some extent, school-houses,
academies and libraries are generally exempt from taxation.
The discretionary power of the legislatures of the states over
all these subjects remains as:itwas before the act of Congress
of June, 1861. The plain intenition of that statute was to
protect the corporations forme~d uh'der its authority from unfriendly discrimination by tli states in the exercise ,of their
taxing power."
In Peope v. Jffeaver, 100 U. S. 539, it was held that the
prohibition against the taxation of national bank shares at a
greater rate than that imposed upon other moneyed capital in
the hands of individual citizens could notbe evaded by the
assessment of equal rates of taxation upon unequal valuations,
and that censequently where the state statute authorized individuals to deduct the amount of debts owing by them from

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

the hssessed value of their personal property and moneyed
capital. subject to taxation, the ownerm of shares of national
banks we-re entitled to the same deduction. The cases of The
Supervisors v. Stanley, 105 U. S. 305; Hills v. Exchange Bank,
105 -U.
S. 319 ; Evansville Bank v. Britton, 105 U. S. 322; and
Cummings'v. .NationalBank, 101 U. S. 153, are applications
of the same principle.
I The rule of decision in 'Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573,
is not incofisistent with that followed in People v. [The Commissioners,4 Wall. 244. In the forfuer of these cases the comparison was between taxes levied upon the shares of national
banks and taxes levied upon the capital of state banks. In the
valuation of the capital-of state 'banks for this taxation, nontaxable securities of the United States were necessarily exeluded, while in the valuation of shares of national banks "n6'
deduction was permitted on account of the fact that the capital
of the national banks was invested in whole or in part in-government bonds. The effect of this was, of course, to discriminate to a very important extent in favor of investments in state
banks, the shares in which ed nomiw were not taxed at all,
while their taxable capital was diminished by the subtraction
of the government securities in -which it was invested, and
against national bank shares-taxed without such deduction at
a value necessarily and largely based on the value of the government securities in which by law. a large part of the capital
of the bank was required to be invested. In the case of People
v. Te Commissioners, the comparison was not between the
taxation of shareholders in national banks and.of shareholders
in state banking institutions, but between the taxation of
national bank shares and that of personal property held by
individuals and insurance companies, from the valuation of
-which the deduction was permitted of the amount of nontaxable government securities held by them respectively. The
general ground of the decision was, that the exemption was
not an unfriendly discrimination against investments in national
banks in favor of other investments of a similar and competing
character. It was held that the exemption under state authority, of United States securities, which it was not lawful for the

MERCANTILE BANK v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

state to tax, could not be considered an unwarranted .exemp'tion in that case. It was also held that the language of the
act of Congress which fixed the rate of taxation upon national
bank shares, by reference to that imposed by the State "upon
other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens,"
excluded from the comparison moneyed capital in the hands
of corporations, unless the corporations were of that character,
such as state banks weye held to be in the case of Van Al&n
v. rTe Assessors, that shares of stock in them fell within the
description of "moneyed capital in the hands of individual
citizens." In that way a distinction was established between
shares of stock held in banking corporations and those held in
insurance companies and other business, trading, manufacturing and miscellaneous corporations, whose business and operations were unlike those of banking institutions.
It follows, as a deduction from these decisions, that "1noneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens" does not
necessarily-embrace shares of stock held by them in all corporations whose capital is employed, according to their respective
corporate powers and privileges, in business carried on for the

pecuniary profit of shareholders, although shares in some corporations, according to the nature of their business, may be
such moneyed capital. The rule and test of this difference is
not to be found in that quality attached to shares of stock in
corporate bodies generally whereby the certificates of ownership have a certain appearance of negotiability, so as easily to
be transferred by delivery under blank powers of attorney,
and to be dealt in by sales at the stock exchange, or used as
collaterals for loans, as though they were negotiable .security
for money. This quality, in a greater or less degree, pertains
to all stocks in corporate bodies, the facility of their use in
this way being in proportion to the estimated wealth and
credit, present or prospective, of the corporation itself. Neither
is the difference to be determined by the character of the investments in which, either by law or in fact, the bulk of the capital and the accumulated surplus of the corporation is from
time to time invested. It does not follow, because these are
invested in such a way as properly to constitute moneyed capi-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

tal, that the shares of stock in the corporations themselv6
must. necessarily be within the same description. Such is the
case of insurance companies, in respect to which it was held,
in People v. Te Conmmbissioners, that shares of stock in them
were not taxable as "moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens;," and that the language of the act of Congress
does not include mor eyed capital in the hands of corporations.
The true test of the distinction, therefore, can only be found
in the nature of the business in which the corporation is engaged.
The key to the proper interpretation of the act of Congress
is its policy and purpose. The object of the law was to establish a system of national banking institutions, in orde;' to provide a uniform and secure currency for the people, and to
facilitate the operations of the Treasury of the United States.
The capital of each of the banks in this system was to be
furnished entirely by private individuals; but, for the protection of the government and the people, it was reqtired that
this capital, so far as it was the security for its circulating
notes, should be invested in the bonds of the United States.
These bonds were not subjects of taxation; and neither the
banks themselves, nor their capital, however invested, nor the
shares of stock therein held by individuals, could be taxed by
the States in which they were located without the consent of
Congress, being exempted from the power of the States in this
respect, because these ba-rks were means and agencies established by Congress in execution of the powers of the government of the United States. It was deemed consistent, however, with these national uses, and otherwise expedient, to
grant to the States the authority to tax. them within the
limits of a rule prescribed by the law. In fixing those limits
it became necessary to prohibit the States from imposing such
a burden as would prevent the capital of individuals from
freely seeking investment in institutions which it was the
express object of the law to establish and promote. The business of banking, including all the operations which distinguish
it, might be carried on under state laws, either by corp6rations
or private persons, and capital in the form of money might be

MERCANTILE BANK v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

invested and employed by individual citizens in many single
and separate operations forming substantial parts of the business of banking. A tax upon the money of individuals, invested
in the form of shares of stock in national banks, would diminish their value ag an investment and drive the capital so
invested from this employment, if at the same time similar
investments and sinilar emiploynehts under the authority of
state laws were exempt froin an equal burden. The main
purpose, therefore, of Congress, in fixing limits to state taxation on investments in the shares of national banks, was to
render it impossible for the State, in levying such a tax, to
-create and Yoster an unequal aid unfriendly competition, by
favoring institutions or individuals carrying on a 8imilar business and operations and investments of a like character. The
language of the act of Congress is to be read in the light of
this policy.
Applying this rule of construction, we are led, in the first
place, to consider the meaning of the words "other moneyed
capital," as used in the statute. Of course it includes shares
in national bankg; the use of the word "other" requires that.
If bank shares were not moneyed capital, the word "other"
in this confilection would be without significance. But "mc n eyed capital" does not mean all capital the value of which is
measured in terms of money. In this sense, all kinds of real
and personal property would be embraced by it, for they, all
have an estimated value as the subjects of sale. Neither does
it necessarily include all forms of investment in which the
interest of the owner is expressed in money. Shares of stock
in railroad companies, mining companies, manufacturing companies, and other corporations, are represented by certificates
showing that the owner is entitled to an interest, expressed in
money value, in the entire capital and property of the corporation, but the pr9perty of the corporation. which constitutes
its invested capital may consist mainly of real and pemonal
I)roperty, which, in the hands of individuals, no one would
think of calling moneyed capital, and its business may not
consist in any kind of dealing in money, or conmmercial representatives of money.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

So far as the policy of the government in reference to
national banks is concerned, it is indifferent how the States
may choose to tax such corporations as those just mentioned,
or the interest of individuals in them, or whether they should
be taxed "at all. Whether propetty interests in railroads, in manufacturing enterprises, in mining investments, and others
of that description, are taxed or exempt from taxation, in the
contemplation of the law, would have no effect upon the success of national banks. There is no reason, therefore, to suppose that Congress intended, in respect to these matters, to
interfere with' the power and policy of the States. The business of banking, as defined by law and custom, consists in the
issue of notes payable on demand, intended to circulate as
money where the banks are banks of issue; in receiving
deposits payable on demand; in discounting commercial
paper; making loans of money on collateral security; buying
and selling bills of exchange; negotiating loans,- and dealing
in negotiable securities issued by the government, state and
national, and municipal and other corporations. These are
the operations in which the capital invested in national banks
is employed, and it is the nature of that employment which
constitutes it in the eye of this statute "moneyed capital."
Corporations and individuals carrying on these operations do
come into competition with the business of national banks,
and capital in the hands of .individuals thus employed is what
is intended to be described by the act of Congress. That the
words of the law must be so limited appears from another
consideration they do not embrace any moneyed capital in
the sense just defined, except that in the hands of individual
citizens. This excludes moneyed capital in the hands of corporations, although the business.of some corporations may be
such as to make the shares therein belonging to individuals
moneyed capital in their hands, as in -the case of banks. A
railroad coihpany, a mining company, an insurance company,
or any other corporation of that description, may have a large
part of its capital invested in securities payable in money, and
so may be the owners of moneyed capital; but, as we have
already seen, the shares of stock in such comlpanies held by
individuals are not moneyed capital.

MERCANTILE BANK v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

The terms of the act of Congress, therefore, include shares
of stock or other interests owned by individuals in all entercarrying on its business
prises in which the capital employed in,
is money, where the object of the business is the making of
profit by its use as money. The moneyed capital thus employed
is invested for that purpose in securities' by way of loan, discount, or otherwise, which are from time to time, according
to the rules of the business, reduced again to money and reinvested. It includes money in the hands of individuals employed in a similar way, invested in loans, or in securities for
the payment of money, either as an investment of a permanent
character, or temporarily with a view to sale or repayment
and reinvestment. In this way the moneyed capital in the
*hands of individuals is distinguished from what is known
generally as personal property. Accordingly, it was said in
Evansville Bank v. Britton, 105 UI. S. 322: "The act of Congress does not make the tax on personal property the measure
of the tax on the bank shares in the State, but the tax on
moneyed capital in the hands of the individual citizens. Credits, money loaned at interest, and demands against persons or
corporations are more purely representative of moneyed capital than personal property, so far as they can be said to differ.
Undoubtedly there may be said to be much personal property
exempt from taxation without giving bank shares a right to
similar exemption, because personal property is not necessarily
moneyed capital. But the rights, credits, demands, and money
at interest mentioned in the Indiana statute, from which bona
,fde debts may be deducted, all mean moneyed capital invested
in that way."
This definition of moneyed capital in the hands of individuals seems to us to be the idea of the law, and ample enough to
embrace and secure its whole purpose and policy.
From this view, it follows that the mode of taxation adopted
by the State of New York in reference to itscorporations, excluding for the present trust companies and savings banks,
does not operate in such a way as to make the tax assessed
upon shares of national banks at a greater rate than that imposed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individual
citizens.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

This is the conclusion reached on similar grounds by the
Court of Appeals of iNew York. In-the case of .Lc.fa/on v.
Palmer,102 N. Y. 16, that court said: "Our system of laws
with reference to the taxation of incorporated companies and
capital invested therein, has been carefully framed with a view
of reaching all taxable property and subjecting it to equality
of burden, so far as that object is attainable in a matter so
complex. 'In view of the wide variation in the employable
value of such investments and the frequent mutations in their
condition, it is by no means certain that this object has not
been attained with reasonable accuracy. It is quite clear, fron
even this cursory review of the statutes, that if any discrimination is made by our laws in taxing capital invested, it is not
to the prejudice of that employed in banking corporations.
Even if this-were not the result of the statute we are of opinion that investments in the shares of the companies named do
not come within the meaning of that clause in the Federal
statutes, referring to other moneyed capital in the hands of
individuals. That phrase, as generally employed, distibguishes
such capital from other personal property, and investments in
the various manufacturing and industrial enterprises. And
this is the sense in which it is used in our tax laws, as appears
by reference to the statutes."
The cases of trust companies and savings banks require
separate consideration. Section 312 of c. 409 of the act
of 1882 is a renactmnent of § 3 of c. 596 of the Laws of
1880, except that in the latter, trust companies were included with banks and banking institutions, so as-to subject
the stockholders therein to the same rule of assessment and
taxation on the value of their shares of stock. The iresent.
statute omits them from the corresponding section. The consequence is, that trust companies are taxable, as other corporations under the act of 1857, for local purposes, upon the
actual value of their capital stock. By c. 361 of the Laws
of 188, as amended, they are subjected to a franchise tax,
in the nature of an income tax, payable to the state for
state purposes. It is argued, from this legislation, in reference to the taxation of trust companies, that it discloses an

mERCANTImE BANK v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

evident intent to discriminate 'in favor of the latter as between
them and banks, including national banks; and it is argued
that, considering the nature of the business in which trust
companies are engagpd, it is a material and unfriendly discrimination in favor of. state institutions engaged to some extent in a competing business* with that of national banks.
Trust companies,. however, in New York, according to the
powers conferred upon them by their charters and habitually
exercised, are not in- any proper sense of the'word banking
institutions. They have the following powers: To receive
moneys in trust and to accumulate the same at an agreed rate
of interest; to accept and execute all trusts of every description committed to them by any person or corporation or by
any court of record; to receive the title to real or personal
estate on trusts created in accordance with the laws of the
state and to execute such trusts; to act as agent for corporations in reference to issuing, registering, and transferring certificates of stock and bonds, and other evidences of debt; to
accept and execute trusts for married women in respect to
their separate property; and to act as guardian for the estates
of infants. It is required that their capital shall be invested
in bonds and mortgages on unincumbered real estate in the
State of New York worth double the 'mount loaned thereon,
or in stocks of the United States or of the State of New York,
or of the incorporated cities of that state.
It is evident, from this -enumeration of po.vers; that trust
companies are not banks in the commercial sense of that word,
and do not perform the functions of banks in carrying on the
exchanges of commerce. They receive money on deposit, it
is true, and invest it in loans, and so deal, therefore, in money
and securities for money in such a way as properly to bring
the shares of stock held by individuals therein within the definition of moneyed capital in the hands of individuals, as
used in the act of- Congress. But we fail to #nd in the record
any sufficient ground to believe thaf the rate o1 taxation,
which in -fact falls upon this form of investment of moneyed
capital, is less than that imposed upon shares of stock in
national bianks.

-OCTOBER TERM, ,1886.
Opinion df the Court.

It appears from the tax laws of New York applicable to the
subject, as judicially .construed by the Court of Appeals of
that state, that the capital stock of such a corporation is to
be assessed at its actual value. The actual value of the whole
capital stock is ascertained by reference, among other standards, to the market price of its shares, so that the aggregate
value of the entire capital may be the market price of one
multiplied by the whole number of shares. 0we1o ,&arcA
Faotb v. DoZloway, 21 N. Y. 449; The PeopZe v. The Com-missioners of Taxes, 95 N. Y.,554. From this are to be deducted, of course, the real estate of the corporation otherwise
taxdd and the value of such part of the capital stock as is invested in non-taxable property, such as securities of the United
States. In addition to this, the corporation, as already stated,
pays to the state, as a state tax, a tax upon its franchise based
upon itsincome'; the tax on the capital being for local purposes.
It is evident, we think, that taxation in this mode is, at
least, equal to that upon the shares of individual stockholders,
for if the same property was held for the same uses and taxed
by the same rule, in the hands of individuals, as moneyed
capital, it would be subject to precisely the same deductions;
in addition to which, the individual would be entitled to make
a further deduction of any debts he might owe. 'Uponthese
.grounds, therefore, we are of opinion that this mode of taxing
.trust companies does not create the inequality which the
appellant alleges.
In the case of savings banks, we assume that neither the
bank itself nor the individual depositor is taxed on acount of
the deposits. The language of the statute (§4, c. 456, Laws
of 1857) is as follows: "Deposits in any banks for savings,
which are due to the depositors, . . . shall not be liable
to taxation, other than the-real estate and stocks which may
be owned by such bank or company, and which are now liable
to taxation under the laws of this State."
-Accordipng to the stipulation in this case, the deposits in
such banks amount to $437,107,501, -with an accumulated surplus of $68,669,001. It cannot be denied that these deposits
constitute moneyed capital in the hands of individuals -within

MERCANTILE BANK v. NEW YORK.
Opinon of the Court.

the terms of any definition which can be given to that phrase;
but we are equally clear that they are not within the meaning
of the act bf Congress -in such a sense as to require that,'if
they are exempted from taxation, shares of stock in national
oanks must thereby also be exempted from taxation. No one
can suppose fora moment that savings banks come into any
possible competition with national banks of the United States.
They are what their name indicates, banks of deposit for the
accumulation of small savings belonging to the industrious
and thrifty. To promote their growth and progress is the
obvious interest and manifest policy of the state. Their multiplication cannot in any sense injuriously -affect any legitimate enterprise in the community. We have hlready seen
that by previous decisions of this court it has been declared that "it could not have been the intention of Congress to.
exempt bank shares from taxation because some moneyed
capital was exempt;" epbu'm v. School ])ieto', 23 Wall.
480; and that "the act of Congress was not intended to curtail the state power on the subject of taxation. It simply
required that capital invested in national banks should not be
taxed at a greater rate than like property similarly invested.
It was not intended to cut off the power to exempt particular
kinds of property, if the legislature chose to do so." - dams
v. .N hvile, 95 U. S. 19. The only limitation, upon deliberate
reflection, we now think it necessary to add, is that these exemptions should be founded upon just reason, and not operate
as an unfriendly discrimination against investments in national
bank shares. However large, therefore, may be the amount
of moneyed capital in the hands of individuals, in the sha-pe of
deposits in savings banks as now organized, which the policy
of the State exempts from taxation for its own purposes, that.
exemption cannot affect the rule for the taxation of, shares in
national banks, provided they are taxed at arate h'ot greater
than other moneyed capital in the hands of -individual citizens
otherwise subject to taxation.
It is further objected, on similar grounds, to the validity of
the assessment complained of in this case, that municipal bonds
of the city of New York, to the amount of $13,467,000, are
VoL. 0x=i-11

162

OCTOBFR. TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

algo exempted from t9iation. The amount of the exemption
in this case is comparatively small, looking at the whole
amount of personal property and credits which are the subjects of taxation; not large enough, we think, to make a.material difference in the rate assessed upon national bank shares;
but, independently of- that consideration, we think the exemp-.
tion is immaterial. Bonds issued by the State of New York,
or under its authority: by its public municipal bodies, are
means for carrying on the work of ihe government, and are
not taxable even by the United States, and it is not a part of
the policy of the government which issues them to subject
them to taxation for its own Purposes. Such securities undoubtedly represent moneyed capital, but as from their nature
they are not ordinarily the subjects of taxation, they are not
within the reason of the rule established by Congress for the
taxation of national bank shares.
The same considerations apply to what is called an exemption from taxation of shares of stock of corporations created
by other stateE and owned by citizens of New York, which it is
aTeed amount to at least the sum of $250,000,000. It is not
pretended, however, that this exemption is based upon the
mere will of the legislature of the State. The courts of New
York hold that they are not the proper subjects of taxation
in the State of New York, because they have no sius8 within
the territory for that purpose. Hoyt v. Comcmissioners of
Taxes, 23 N. Y. 224; People ex rel. Tvowbridge v. QTe Cormmissioners,4 Hun, 595. The objection would be equally good
if made to the non-taxation of real estate owned by citizens of
New York, but not within its limits. Clearly the property to
be taxed under the rule prescribed for the taxation of national
bank shares must be property which, according to the law of
the State, is the subject of taxation within its jurisdiction.
Upon these grounds, substantially the same as those. on
which the Circuit Judge proceeded, 28 Fed. Rep. '76, we are of
opinion that the appellant is not entitled to the relief prayed for.
Th6 decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore,
.Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE
case.

BLATcnF or

took no part in the decision of this

