McCONIHAY v. WRIGHT.
Syllabus.

XoCON IHAY v. WRIGHT.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
Argued March 21, 22, 1887. -Decded

April 11, 1887.

The test of equity jurisdiction.in the courts of the United States- namely,
the adequate remedy at law -is
the remedy which existed when the
Judiciary Act of 1789 was adopted, unless subsequently changed by
Congress; and is not the existing remedy in a State or Territory by
virtue of local legislation.
A mining and manufacturing corporation in Virginia acquired title by deed
to 10,000 acres of land in that part of the state which afterwards became
'West Virginia, and then, under a law of Virginia, acquired title, by condemnation, to a trip of land for a right of way to it from the Kanawha
River over adjoiuing lands. The company becoming embarrassed, judgment creditors commenced proceedings in equity to secure the marshalliug of the assets of the corporation and their application to the payment "
of its debts.. These proceedings resulted in a sale to C, which sale was
confirmed and a deed executed. Subsequently C filed a bill to enforce
certain trusts accompanying the purchase, and then an amended bill,
making the corporation a party. In the latter it was averred that the
tract for the roadway had been gold under the decree, and had been left
out from the deed by the conmnissioter by mistake, anud the bill prayed
that the tract should be decreed to be conveyed to C. The company
answered by the same counsel representing C, admitting these facts to
be true. The court decreed a sale of all the property, including both
tracts, which was made accordingly, and the sale confirmed, and a deed
to the purchaser inade. Held, that the title of the corporation in the
tract acquired by condemnation passed to the purchaser under the second
'sale as fully as if conveyed by the company by a deed under its corporate
seal, and that, under the circumstances, the employment of the same
counsel by the company and by C, was.not evidence of fraud.
The provisions of § 20 of the Act of the' State of Virginia of March 11,
1837, relating to railroads, are not applicable to the railroad constructed
by the Winifrede" Mining and Manufacturing Company; or, if applicable, the charter of the company was in that respect altered by the
Virginia'Code of 1849; and this conclusion is not affected by the fact
that the charter wag granted by the legislature after the enactment of
the code, but before it went into operation.
If the insolvency of the Winifrede Company, and the- snlu"of its property
as an entirety, including land acquired by condemnation for use-as an
outlet from its mines to a iiavigable river, constituted an abandonment
of the" property thus acquired, and a cesser of use, it did not thereby
revert to the origiml owner; but the forfeiture couldbe enforced, if at
all, only by the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

THE. complainant in .this case, Theodore Wright, the appellee, a citizen of the State of Pennsylvania, filed his bill in
equity September 24, 1881, against the appellants, citizens of
the State of West Virginia, the object and prayer of which
were to quiet his title to certain real estate described therein.
The title of the complainant to the premises in controversy
was derived from the Winifrede Mining and Manufactuiing
Company, a corporation of the State of West Virginia. That
company was chartered by a special act of the legislature of
Virginia, Febiuary 16,.1850, and made a body politic "for the
purpose of exploring, digging, mining, raising, and transporting
coal and other minerals and substances, and for manufacturing
mineral, vegetable, and other articles in and from the counties
of Kanawha and Boone, md such other counties as may hereafter be created out of parts of said counties."
The third section of its charter was as follows: "That it shall
and may be lawful for the said company to erect and construct
a slack-water navigation from some convenient point on Kanawha or Coal rivers, contiguohs to their said lands, and along
the bed of the said Coal River to the- Great Kanawha: Provided, however, That nothing in this act contained shall be so
construed as to prevent the said rivers from being and remaining public highways, free for the navigation of all the
citizens of this commonwealth; and also to construct such
railroad or railroads from any point on their said lands to the
Great Kanawha River, or any other navigable stream in the
valley of the Kanawha River anc its branches, or to connect
with any other railroad or improvement which is now or may
hereafter be authorized by the State of Virginia in the said
valley of the Kanawha and its branches; and to enable the
said company to carry out the provisions in this section contained, they are hereby invested with all the rights, powers,
and privileges, and subjected to all the limitations and restrictions, coltained in an act entitled, 'An act prescribing certain
general regulations for the incorporation of railroad companies,' passed March 11, 1837, so far as the same are applicable
to and not inconsistent with the provisions of this act."
By the secoid section of the charter the company was

McCONIHAY v.- WRIGHT.
Argument for Appellants.

authorized to purchase and hold lands, not exceeding 10,000
acres at any one time, in the said counties of Kanawha and
Boone, or in any new counties that had been or might thereafter be formed and created out of parts of said counties.
In pursuance of the authority given by its charter the Winifrede Mining and Manufacturing Company of Virginia, on
the 8th of January, 1853, acquired by deed a title in fee simple
John
to a tract of land containing about 10,000 acres.
McConihay owned land between this tract and the Kanawha
River. For the purpose of acquiring a right of way for a railroad, and a depot on the banks of the Kanawha River, in
order to transport its coal, the Winifrede Company, by judicial proceedings, appropriated a tract through the lands of
McConihay, being a narrow strip four or five miles long, connecting its tract of coal land with the bank of the river. That
strip, appropriated in that way and for that purpose, was the
subject of the controversy in this suit. A demurrer interposed
by the defendants was overruled, and the case was heard
finally upon bill, answer) replication, and proofs. A decree
was rendered in favor of the complainant, from which the
defendants prosecuted the present appeal.
X, . J. .F. Brown for appellants.
I. The demurrer should have been sustained. (1) The plaintiff had ample and complete remedy -at law. (2) No leave of
court was had, though the bill shows that the property is yet
in the control of the court. (3) There is 'a want of proper
parties. Cram is not before the court.
II. The bill should have been dismissed at the hearing; because the defendants proved their title. The act of 1837 provided a reversion to the former owner, upon an abandonment
of the public use -the Code of 1849 provided that an estate
in fee simple should pass by condemnation proceedings. The
special act of 1850, by which alone this company acquired
the right to condemn land, ignored the Code of 18-19 and
granted the company only the rights and powers specified in
the prior act of 1837, subject to all the limitations and re-

OCTOBER TERAXL 1886.
Argument for Appellants.

strictions of that act. This amounted .to a rdnactment of
the act of 1837 for the purposes of this company, and was as
to it a repeal of all. inconsistent acts, including the act of
18-9. The fact that the Code'of 1849 had not yet gone into
,effect is immaterial. it was liable torepeal from the date of
its passage, and as to the Winifrede M[ining and Manufacturing Company, the act of February 16, 1850, did repeal it.
The right in the corporation to exercise the right of eminent
domain was part of its franchise,- and conditioned upon the
discharge of the correlative duties to the public. The use of
the lands thus taken is no less a part. of the franchise held
upon a like condition. The legislature could not confer upon
private individuals the power to condemn lands; no more
should corporations, that have acquired land by the exercise
of this right under an alleged intention to construct and
operate a railroad for the public use, be permitted to abandon
its purpose, and transfer the lands so taken to private individuals for private ends, -- by indirection do that which the
legislature itself could not authorize.
By the act of 1837, the advantages anticipated from the
operation of the road were required to be set off against the just
compensation guaranteed by the Constitution; and in the case
at bar the set-off was applied. Any different act than that of
1837, providing for a reversion upon failure of the consideration would vi6late the constitution of'the state. East Alabama
1aizoay v. Doe, 114 U. S. 340; Iouisville & Nyashville Railroad v. Covington, 2 Bush, 526; Strong v. Brooklyn, 68 1.TY. 1.
That corporations are confined strictly to the powers and
rights granted by their charters, and can have nothing not
expressly given, is established by the following cases, and
meets the claim of the plaintiff to a*fee simple absolute in
the land in controversy: _Dartmouth College v. Woodward
4 Wheat. 518; Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519, 587;
Beach v. Fulton Bank, 3 Wend. 573; People v. Utica Ins.
Co., 15 Johns. 358 ; 1 Le Couteu v. City of.Buffalo, 33 N. Y.
.333; Czmdem &}Amnboy Railroad v. Remer, 4 Barb. 127; 21obile & Ohio Railroad v. Frankes, 41 Miss. 494; Trustees v.
S1

8 Am. Dec. 243.

McCONIIIAY v. WRIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

Peaslee, 15 N. H. 317;

S;khaunut Bank v. Plattsburgh, ce.,

Rail'oad, 31 Vt. 491; Pennsylvania, &e., Now. Co. v. JDaizdridge,8 0. & J. 248 ; 3 YFandall v. Soutlb San FranciscoDock
Co., 40 Cal. 83; Tinter v. .1uscogee lailroad,11 Geo. 438;
llitman .Xfining Co. v. Baker, 3 Nevada, 386; R-uggles v.
Collier, 43 Missouri, 353; Rochester Ins. Co. v. .Martin, 13
Minn. 59; Occum Co. v. Sprague 3 f'g Co., 34 Conn. 529;
.faddoe v. Graham, 2 Met. (Ky.) 56; East Anglian Railways
v. Eastern Counties Railway, 11 C. B. '75; People v. Albany,
11 Wend. 539; 2 Beatty v. XEnowler, 4 Pet. 152.
That the power to take private property is strictly construed;
so, also, the nature of the interest, whether in fee or an easement:
40 N. HI. 230; Peters.Downing v. Ift. Washington "tailroad,
burg v. Zfetzker, 21 Ill. 205; Fullerv. PlainfleldAead. School,
6 Conn. 532; Commonwealth v. Erie, &c., Railroad,27 Penn.
St. 3.39 ; 3 Wite's Bank v. Toledo Ins. Co., 12 Ohio St. 601;
Pacifo Railroadv. Seeley, 45 Missouri, 212.
3fr. R. C. 3lMurtrie and -Mr.E B. Knight for appellee.

MR. JUSTICE MTrrnEws, after making the foregoing statement of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
The first error assigned is, that the case is not one of equitable jurisdiction, it being contended that the complainant below had a complete and adequate remedy at law. The bill
sufficiently alleges that the complainant is in possession of the
premises in controversy, and in this respect is supported by tho
proofs. .The prayer of the bill is, that the defendants may
be required to assert and declare the rights and title claimed
by them in and to the premises, and that in the -meantime
they may be enjoined "from interfering with or hindering or
obstructing your ordtor, his agents, or employes, in any manner in the use and enjoyment of said way and depot until the
further order of said court," anil for generaI relief. The contention of the appellants, however, is, that by the statute of
West Virginia the complainant might have maintained an
action of ejectment. Reference is made in support of this
S.

.. 9 Am. Dec. 543.

2 S. C. 27 Am. Dec. 95.

8

S. C. 67 Am. Dec. 471.

OCTOBER TER;I," 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

contention to the West Virginia Code of 1868, c. 90, to show
that an action of ejectment in that state will lie against one
claiming title to or interest in land, although not in possession.
Admitting this to be so, it, nevertheless, cannot have the effect
to oust the jurisdiction in equity of the courts of the United
States as previously established. That jurisdiction, as has
often been decided, is vested as a part of the judicial power
of the United States in its courts by the Constitution and acts
of Congress in execution thereof. Without the assent of
Congress that jurisdiction cannot be impaired or diminished
by the statutes of the several states regulating the practice of
their own courts. Bills uia tinet, such as the present, belong
to the ancient jurisdiction in equity, and no change in state
legislation giving, in like cases, a remedy by action at law,
can, of itself, curtail the jurisdiction in equity of the courts
of the United States. The adequate remedy t law, which is
the test of equitable jurisdiction in these courts, is that which
existed when the Judiciary Act. of 1789 was adopted, unless
subsequently changed by act of Congress.
The next assignment of error is that the proof fails to sustain the title set up by the appellee. That title is based upon,
two judicial sales. The first of these was a sale to Henry A.
Cram, in a proceeding commenced in 1860 by the Bank of
Virginia and other judgment creditors against the Winifrede
Mining and Manufacturing Company, the object of which was
to marshal the assets of that corporation and apply them to
the payment of its debts. A decree was rendered therein
on January 26, 1861, ascertaining the debts of the company
and their priority as liens, and ordering a salt of its property
for their satisfaction. That decree directed the sale of "that
ten thousand-acre tract of land belonging to the Winifrede
Minifig and Manufacturing Company, fully set out and described in the bill and exhibits and other proceedings in this
cause, and lying on Kanawha and Coal rivers and on Field's
Creek, in the counties of Kanawha and.Boone, together with
all improvements thereon used in the mining, transporting,
and shipping of coal, including railroad iron, picks, shovels,
cars, engines, and whatever other toqls and implements there

McCONIHAY v. WRIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

may be upon the property belonging to said company.". The
sale to Cram was duly confirmed by the court, and a deed
ionveying the property made to him by the commissioner.
"Subsequently, in 1878, Henry A. Ciam, the purchaser, fil~d his
bill in equity against Edward A. Bibby and others, in which
he alleged that the purchase made by him at the sale under
the decree in favor of the Bank of -irginia was made in
trust on behalf of himself and others. The object and prayer
of his bill were, that the tfusts arising out of the agreementg
set forth therein, in pursuance of which the purchase was
made, might be administered and carried out under the direction of the court, and an account taken of $he expenditures of
the complainant, the. property sold, and the'-proceeds divided
among the parties in interest.. By an amendment, the Winifrede Mining and Manufacturing Company was made a party
to the bill; and-in a second amendment it was qlleged that at
the sale made under the decree in the Bank of.Virginia case,
the railroad track and road-bed leading from the Kanawha
River to the ten thousand-acre tract, some five miles long,
mote or less, was sold and should have been conveyed by the
commissioner in his deed to the 5omiplainant, but by mistake
was left oht and not embraced in the cbnveyance. The complainant, therefore, prayed that the Winifrede Mining and
Manufacturing Company, and all parties named as d6fendants
in the original bill, be. made defendants to the. amended bill,
and that the court would treat the roadway as a. part of. the
property embraced -in the deed to the complainant; adding
that it was a coal property, that, the road and road-bed and
rails cost some $300,000, and that the. property was valueless
without this roadway, and the court was adsked to sell the
property; including the roadway as an entirety. To this
amended bill an answer was filed in the name and on behalf
6f the Winifrede Mining and Manufacturing Company,admitting the allegations of the bill and amendments to be true,
and particularly that the property, including the road-bed and
the ten thousand-acre tract and rails, was sold as an entirety,
and- sfich. purchased by Cram, and should have been inpluded in the deed from the commissioner to him as purchaser.

OCTOBER TERM, 188
Opinion of, the Court.

In this suit a final decree was passed ordering a sale of the
property as prayed for and described. It was declared in that
decree that "the legal title to the tract Qf 10,180 acres of land,
more or less, situated on Field's Creek and Big Coal River,
West Virginia, and in the bill and amended bills more particularly described, together with the road-bed and right of way
from the same to the Kanawha River, including the front property," was vested in the complainant, Henry A. Cram, and the
property as thus described was ordered to be sold. At this sale
Theodore Wriglt, the appellee, became the purchaser for the
sum of $120,006. This sale was confirmed by the court.and a
deed ordered to be made, upon payment of the purchase money.
The objection of the appellants, that these proceedings do
not vest in Theodore Wright, the appellee, the title which
was in the Winifrede Mining and Manufacturing Company to
the premises in dispute, cannot be sustained. It could avail
the appellants as a; defence only by showing that the legal
title was still outstanding in the Winifrede Mining and Manufacturing Company, and that as between that company and
.Wright the latter was wrongfully in possession; but that
.question has already been adjudged as between the Winifrede Mining and Manufacturing Company and Cram, to
whose title Wright succeeds by the decree of the Kanawha
Circuit Court, as .agains@-.which that company can no longer
assert any title; either a.t law or in equity, to the property in
controversy. Wright is now vested by virtue of that' decree
with whatever title the Winifrede Mining and Manufacturing
Company had to the premises as completely as' if that title
had been conveyed to him by the comI~any by a deed under
its corj9rate seal. It is said, however, by. the appellants, that
the decree rendered in the suk in which Cram was a 6onipl~ainant whs collusive ahtd frandulent, because it appears upon. the
face of the record that the 'Winifrede Minming and Manufadturing- Compasny 'appeafiad*thout :process and answered, but
not under its coi~orate seal, by. the same counsel who represented Oram., Thig, h6wever5 isnot p 6of of fraud, but only
of a cons.6rt.o do. zhat'it.app~ar.o have been peffectly pro"per tg- do ; that is, tQ, make gooclja- inporfect conveyance.

McCONIHTAY v.. wRIGHT,

1209
29

Opinion of thee
Court:

Were it otherwise the imputed fraud is not one of ywhich the
appellants are the proper party to complain, being strangers
to the transaction.,
The third assignment of error is, that befo e the decree in
the Cram suit, the title "originally acquired by the Winifrede
'Mining and Manufacturing Company had failed and ceased,
and by force of the statute under which it was acquired hgd
reverted to the appellants as heirs at law and assigns of
John McConihay. . It Will' be remembered that the charter
of the Winifrede Mining and Manufacturing* Company, ,having authorized it to construct a iailroad from its lands to the
Great Kanawha River, for that purpose invested the com]pany
'with all the rights, powers, and privileges, and subjected it to
all the limitations and restrictions contained in the act entitled
"An act prescribing certain general regulations for the incorpprafion of railroad .companies," passed March 11,. 1837, "so
fir as the same are applicable to and not inconsistent with the
provisions of this act."
The act of March 11, 1831, thus referred to, contained provisions in reference to the organization of railroad companies
generally, defining the powers of directors, conferring power
to condemn land for right ofwiaJ-and depot purposes, and
providing for th6 assessment of damages therefor. In prescribing the mode in which the freeholders appointed to ascertain the damages payable to the proprietor of the lands,
'by reason of the condemnation thereof for the use of the
company, should act, it declares that "they shall consider'the
proprietor of the land as being the -owner of the whole feesimple interest therein; they shall take into consideration the
quantity and quality of the land to,be condemned, the additional fencing which will be required thereby, and all other
inconveniences which will resfilt to the proprietor from the,
condemnation thereof; and shkll combine, therewith a just
regard to the advantages which the owner of the land will
derive from the construction of the railroad for the use of.
which his land is condemned: Provided,That not less than
the actual value of the land, without reference to the location
voL. cxx-i4

210

OCTOBER TER,

I-1886.

Opinion of the Court.

and construction of the road, shall be given by the commis.
sioners."
.It also provided for rendering judgment in favor of the proprietor for the amount of 'the damages awarded to him, and
said: "And when such judgment shall be satisfied by the payment of the money into court or otherwise, the title of the
land for which such damages were assessed shall be vested in
the company in the same manner as if the proprietor had sold
and conveyed it to them."
The 20th section of the act is as follows: "The works of the"
company shall be executed with diligence, and if they be not
commenced within two years after the passage of the act, of
incorporation, and finished within the period which may be
therein prescribed; and in case the company at any time after
the said road is completed shall abandon the same, or cease to
use and keep it in proper repair, so that it shall fail to afford
the intended accommodation to the public, for three successive
years, then and in that case, also their charter shall be annulled
as to the company, and the Skate of Virginia may take pbssession of the said railroad and works, and the title thereto
shall be vested in the said state so long as it shall maintain the
same in the state.and manner required by said charter; otherwise the lands .over which the said road shall pass shall revert
to and be vested in the person or persons from whom they
were taken by concession or inquisition as aforesaid, or their
heirs or assigns."
The 35th section of the same act provides, that "any part
of any charter or act of incorporation granted agreeably to
the provisions of this act shall be subject'to be altered,
amended, or modified by any future legislature as to them.
shall seem proper; except so much thereof as prescribes the
rate of compensation or tolls for transportation: Provided,
'That the rights of property acquired under this act, or any
other act adopting the provisions of this act, shall not be taken
'away or impaired by any future act of the legislature."
The contention on the part of /the appellants is, that by virtue of .the 20th .section of the act of March 11, 1837, above
quoted, the premises in dispute reverted to them as the -heirs

3fcCO-QNIHAY v. WRIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

and assigns of John MeConihay, having been appropriated 'to
the use of the. Winifrede Mining and Manufacturing- Company
under the provisions of that act, and having been abandoned
by the company for more than three successive years for the
uses for which the appropriation had taken place, and the
State of Virginia not having interposed on its own behalf.
It further appears, however, that in August, 1849, a general
code of laws, known as the' Code of 189, was passed by the
legislature of Virginia, to take effect on July 1, 18rD. Section 1, c. 61, of that code, is as'fbllows : "Every company
which is governed by the act passed on ,the 7th day of
February, 1817, prescribing certain general' regulations for the
incorporation of turnpike companies, or by the act passed on
the 11th day of March, 1837, prescribing certain general regulations for the incorporation of railroad companies, and eVery
company which after the commencement of this act shall be
incorporated to construct any work of internal improvement,
sliall be governed b the provisions contained in the 57th
chapter and in this chapter, so far as they can apply to such
company. without violating its charter."
By: § 11, tit. 17, of that act, it is provided, in referenee to
the damages awarded for compensation to the proprietor for'
lands taken for the use of corporations, that "upon such payment the title to that,part of the land for which such compensation is allowed shall be absolutely vested in the company,
county, or town in fee simple." Aiad § 28 is 'as follows:.
"When any corpoiation shall' expire -or be dissolved, or its
corporate rights and privileges shall -have ceased, all its works
and property, and debts due to it, shall be subject to the payment of debts due by it, and then to distribution among the
members according to their respective interests; and such
corporation may sue and be sued as before, for the purpose of
collecting debts due to it,, prosecuting rights under previous
contracts with it, and enforcing its liabilities and distributing
the proceeds of its works, property, and debts among those
entitled 'thereto."
The proceedings between the W-inifrede Mining and Manufacturing Company and John McConihay for the appropriation

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

of the lands in controversy for right of way and depot purposes
for its railroad took place in 1853, and whatever title he acquired
by virtue of those proceedings vested after the Code of 1849
took effect. It is contended on the part of the aijpellee, that
the nature and character of that title are determined by that
act, and not by the act of March 11, 1837; although it is also.
insisted that if the act of 1837 remained in force for that purpose, nevertheless there has been no failure of title by reason
of its conditions.
In our opinion the case is not governed by the 20th section
of the act of March 11, 1837. The act to incorporate the
Winifrede Mining and Mahufacturing Compaiy does not
adopt all the provisions of that act in every particular as a
part of its charter, but only "so far as the same are applicable
to and not inconsistent with the provisions of this act." A
manifest difference exists between such a road as that constructed under the charter of the Winifrede Mining and Manufacturing Company for the purpose of transporting coal from
the mines to a navigable liver or other railroad, and such railroads as were within the purview of the act of M arch 11, 1837,
which were railioads for the general transportation of persons,
and property, between distant points. It is in reference to the
latter alone that we think the provisions of § 20 apply; the
railroads referred to in that section plainly being such that, in
case of abandonment by the company owning the same, the
Stateof Virginia might take possession -thereof and maintain
them in the state and manner required by the charter of the
company. The provisions of that section, in our opinion, are
not applicable to the 'case of such a road as that of the Winifrede
Mining and Manufacturing Company.
-Were iiotherwise, however, we
are satisfied that the charter
of the Winifrede Mining and Manufacturing Company, in this
particular, was altered by the operation of the Code of 1849.
Chapter 61 of that act applies to companies incorporated to
construct and carry on works of internal improvement, including railroads. The first section de6lares that" every company
which is governed by the act passed on the 7th day of February, 1817, prescribing certain general regulations, for the

McCONIHAY v.- WRIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

incorporation of turnpike companies, or by the act passed on
the 11th day of March, 1837, prescribing certain general regulations for the incorporation of railroad companies, and every
company which, after the commencement of this act, shall be
incorporated to construct any work of internal improvement,
shall be governed by the provisions contained in the 57th
chapter and in this chapter, so far as they can apply to such
company without violating its charter." By the express terms
of this section etery company previously incorporated, but in
existence when that act went into operation, and which, by
the terms of its charter, was governed by the act of March 11,
1837, thencefor~vard was to be governed by the provisions contained in the Code. This includes the Winifrede Mining and
Manufacturing Company, which, on July 1, 1850, when the
Code took effect, was such a corporation. The Code of 1849
contained no such provision as that embraced within the terms
of § 20 of the act of March 11, 1837. On the contrary, it provides, in § 31, that, "if the works of any company be not commenced and completed within the time prescribed by its act of
incorporation, or if after such works be completed the company
shall abandon the same, or for three consecutive years cease
to use and keep them in good repair, in each of these cases the
State may either proceed by quo warranto or take possession
of the works and property of such company; and, in case of
so taking possession, shall keep the -ame in good repair, and
have all the rights and privileges previously vested in the company. But the State shall pay the company for such works
and property the full value of the same at the time it takes
possession thereof."
The 28th section of title 17 is as follows: "When any corporation shall expire or be dissolved, or its corporate rights and
privileges shall have ceased, all its works and property and
debts due to it shall be subject to the payment of debts due by
it, and then to distribution among the members according to
their respective interests; and such corporation may sue and
be sued as before for the purpose of collecting debts due to it,
prosecuting iights under previous contracts with it, and enforcing its liabilities, and distributing the proceeds of its works,
property, and debts among those entitled thereto."

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The appellants rely upon the circumstance that the charter
of the Winifrede. Mining and Mfanufacturing Company was
passed after the enactment of the Code of 1849, but before it
went into operation* as taking it out of the provisions of the
Code when it did go into effect; but .this circumstance seems
to us entirely immaterial. When the Code went into effect
on July 1, 1850, the Winifrede Mining and Manufacturing
Company was an -existing corporation, governed in certain
partigulars by the act of March 11, 1837. The Code when'it
went into effect operated upon this company, and from that
time became a part of its charter. The title which it after-.
wards acquired in 18.53 was, therefore, not affected by the
provisions of the act of March 11, 1837, but was held by it
in accordance with the provisions of. the Code of 1849.
Ttis argued, however, by the appellants, that by the general
principles of .the common law, the title of the Winifrede Mining and Manufacturing Company was forfeited by the abandonment of the property, and a cesser of the uses for which
only it could have been acquired, so that it reverted to Joh4
McConihayand his heirs and assigns. Thefe was, however, no
intentional abandonment of the property by the company for
the uses for which it was acquired. The company became
insolvenAt, unable to pay its debts, and to carry on its business.
Its property was taken in execution by judgment creditors; a
bill in equity was filed by them for the purpose of subjecting
-its assets to the payment of their claims. To -that suit John
MqConihay was a party- as a judgment creditor, holding a
.judgment for the amount of the compensation awarded to
him for the premises in controversy. That judgment, among
others, was paid out of the proceeds of the sale of the very
property which his heirs and assigns now seek to, recover..
Having thus obtained the benefit of the: sale on which the
titl6 of the appellee is founded by receiving a portion of its
proceeds, it is not open to them to question the effect Qf that
sale as a'conveyance of the subsisting title of the Winifrede
'Mining and Manufacturing Company to the land in controversy. It is sufficient, however, to. say that the Rode of
1849, which, governs the case, expressly devotes the property

FRANCKLYN v. SPRAGUE.

215.

Counsel for Appellants.

of the company, including this right of way, to the payment
of its debts, and that no forfeiture of the title, on the'ground'
of an abandonment, can be enforced, except by the. state,
and on payment to the'company of the, value of the property, of which, in consequence of such abandonment, it takes
possession.
We find no error in the decree of the District Court, and it
is accordingly
______Afflrmzed.

FRANCKLYN v. SPRAGUE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUTr COURT OF THE UNIUED STATES FOR"
THE DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND.
Argued December 3, 1886. -Decided

April 11, 1887.

The decision of this court in Hoyt v, Sprague, and in Franckiyn v. Sprague,
103 U. S. 613, so far as applicable to this case, is afflrmed and adhered to.
On the organization of the A. & W. Sprague Manufacturing Company, and
the conveyance to it of the assets of the old partnership, including the
interests of minors conveyed under valid authority derivd fr~m the
Legislature of Rhode Island, the property ceased to be partnership
property; the partners ceased to be partners and became shareholders;
their lien on the partnership property as partners ceased when their
character as stockholders began; and those who claim through a stock-,
holder cannot set up such lien.
A corporation, formed by and consisting of the members of a partnership,
for the purpose of conducting the partnership business and taking the
partnership property, takes the latter freed from partnership equities,
all of which are settled and extinguished by the transfer.
While a person of unsound mind remains a minor, an ordinary guardian is
all the custodian of either his person or estate that is necessary; and an act done by such guardian in relation t6T his estate, is as valid as if done
by a committee appointed to take charge of him and his estate, as ,a
person of unsound mind.

Tnis was an appeal from a final decree- of the Circuit Court
dismissing a bill in eqaity.

The case is stated in the opinion

bf the court.

-Y. Wlliam AZlen Bu&r .for appellants.
McEen was with him on the brief.

-Mr. James

