GRANT v. PHCENIX LIFE INS. CO.
Syllabus.

of the license tax was geniuine, "and bore on its face the contract of the State of Virginia that it -should be received in
payment of all taxes, debts, and demands due -said State."
This shows a good tender, which brings this case within the
ruling by this court in the other.
TDi judgmnent of the uzprerme Court of Appeals of the State
of Virginia is 'reversedon t~w authorityof 1?oyall v. "'ginia, supra, and the cause remandedfor further proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion and the judgment
in that case.

GRANT v. PIENIX LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued March 24, 25,1887. -Decided

April 4, 1887.

A cestui qui trust under twenty-six trust deeds of land, executed to five different sets of trustees, to secure the payment of money, filed a bill in
equity in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, to procure a
sale of the land. Some of the deeds covered only a part of the land.
One of them covered the whole. All of the trustees were made defendants, and the bill was taken pro confesso as to all of them. As to the
trustees in twenty-two of the deeds, the bill alleged that they had declined to execute the trusts. The holders of judgments and mechanics'
liens and purchasers of some of the land were made defendants. Some
of the trust deeds did not specify any length of notice of the time and
place of sale by advertisement. The bill alleged the insolvency of the
grantor and the inadequate value of the land to pay the liens. On an
objection by the grantor that the cestui que trust could not maintain the
bill: Held, that the objection could not be sustained.
The bill was not multifarious.
The Special Term made a decree for the sale of the land, without hearing
evidence on issues raised by the pleadings. On appeal, the General
Term reversed the decree, and remanded the cause to the Special Term
for further proceedings, with permission to the parties to apply to the
Special Term for leave to amend their pleadings; Held, that this was a
proper order under § 772 of the Revised Statutes of the District of
Columbia.
A decree in a prior suit held not to be pleadable as res adjudicata, in view of
the proceedings in that-suit.

.106

OCTOBER

kERI, 1886.

Opinion of the Court.
"Pleas fied with an answer, where th~e answer extends to, the whole matter
covered by the pleas, held to have been'properly overruled.
The appointment of a receivertwenty days after the filing- of the bill; to
collect rents and to lease unrented ppoperty, upheld, as within the rule
laid down in Kountze v. Omaha Hotel Co., 107 U. S. 378, 395.
The appointment of a receiver by an interlocutory decree held not to have
been superseded, because it was not expressly continued by tbe'final
dqeree.
Commissions on loans, not paid by the borrower to the lender, held not to"
constitute usury.

BiLi: in equity. Decree for complainant. Respondent appealed. The case. is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Jose] E. fc!Donald and .A. -f. f. Blair for appeliant.
.X&. Williamr F. .tfattingly and Mr.. X. F. Xaoris for appellee.
M-. JusTIcE BLATCHFORD, delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, on the 17th of April, 1875, by the Phenix Mutual Life Insurance Company, a Connecticut corporation, against Albert Grant and others, to enforce certain deeds
of trust, 26 in number, executed by Grant and his wife to
secure sundry sums of money, the plaintiff claiming to be the
owner of- all the debts secured by the deeds of trust, which
cover various lots in square 60, in the city of Washington.
The suit applies to lots 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, 17
and 18, all of which but lots 16, 17 and 18 had buildings on
them when the suit was brought. The total amount of principal moneys alleged n the bill to be due on the debts secured
by the deeds of trust is $312,658.14. The trustees in the
several deeds of trust, being five different sets of trustees,
two in each set, are made parties defendant, as are certain
judgment and mechanics' lien creditors of Grant, and purchasers from him. The bill alleges that Grant is insolvent;
that the property is very much deteriorating for the want of
necessary kepairs to the buildings upon it, which Grant is

GRANT v. PHCENIX LIFE INS. CO.
Opiuion of the Court.

unable or unwilling to make; and that 10 of the buildings
are unoccupied. The bill prays for the appointment of a receiver to rent and properly care for 12 of the lots; that the
net 4mounts collected by the receiver be paid over to the plaintiff on account of the indebtedness; that the 14 lots covered
by the trust deeds may be sold to pay the indebtedness due
,to the plaintiff; and that the proceeds of the sale be paid to
the parties lawfully entitled thereto.
On the 7th of May, 1875, after a hearing, the court made
an order appointing a receiver of 10 of the lots, to collect the
rents of rented property, and to lease such as was unrented.
On the 6th of July, 1875, Grant demurred generally to the
bill. This demurrer-was overruled on the 8th of November,
1875, with leave to answer.
On the 27th of November, 1875, Grant filed an answer denying his indebtedness as to a large part of the amount claimed
by the plaintiff, and denying generally the equities of the bill;
and with the answer filed four pleas, setting up (1) a want of
jurisdiction in the Court to decree a sale, on the ground that
the only lawful authority to make the sale without the consent
of Grant was vested in the several trustees; (2) the non-joinder
of numerous parties named in the plea; (3) the illegality of
the indebtedness claimed, because $9000 of illegal and usurious interest was charged by the plaintiff and paid by Grant
on such indebtedness; (4) that all the indebtedness was paid
and satisfied before the bringing of the suit.
On the same day, Grant filed a cross-bill, making as defendants the parties to the original bill and 'those named in the
second plea, in which he set up that a contract had been made
between him and the plaintiff, on the 1st of March, 1873, by
the terms of which, among other things, all of his obligations
to the plaintiff were to be surrendered to him in consideration
of a deed in fee to be made by him to the plaintiff of 11 of
the lots. The cross-bill prayed for a specific performance of
such contract by the plaintiff.
On the 23d of December, 1875, the plaintiff moved to strike
out the pleas, and also demurred to the cross-bill. On the 15th
of March, 1876, the demurrer to the cross-bill was sustained,

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

with leave to amend. On the 20th of March, 1876, the plaintiff filed a general replication, joining issue with Grant. On
the 6th of :May, 1876, the Court in special term made an
order referring the cause to the auditor of the Court to state
the account between the plaintiff and Grant, the amount'due
under the several deeds of trust, the. amounts due to the judgment and -mechanics' lien creditors referred to in the bill,
whether the same are liens upon any of the real estate, the
relative priorities of the claims of such creditors and the plaintiff, and the value of the real estate. From this order Grant
appealed to the General Term. On the hearing before the
auditor he refused to receive evidence on the part of Grant in
support of any of the defences raised by his answer.
On the 19th of June, 1876, the auditor filed his report, in
which he reported upon the several matters referred to him,
and found the amount due on the several deeds-of trust on
the real estate the sale of which the bill prayed for, to be
8425,848.83, includ'ing interest, and stated the value of the
-fourteen lots and of the buildings upon them to be $200,425.
Grait filed exceptions to this report, and on the 11th of
December, 1876, the court made a decree overruling the exceptions and confirming the report. The decree directed that
the fourteen lots be sold by trustees named in the decree, un
less Grant should, by a day specified, pay into court for the
plaintiff the sum of $407,117.58. In case of a sale, the proceeds were to be brought into court to abide further order.
Grant appealed to the General Term from this decree.
On the- 28th of March, 1877, a decree was made by the
General Term, reversing the decree of the Special Term of
December 11, 1876, setting aside the order of reference to the
auditor and the proceedings thereunder, and remanding the
cause to the Special Term for further proceedings, to commence with the cause as it stood after the filing of the replication and when application for the reference to the auditor
was made, with leave to Grant to move to amend his cross-bill
and to the plaintiff to apply for such order as it might be advised in regard to its replication. The decision of-the General
Term, reported in 3 MYacArthur, 42, considers the -objection

.GRANT v. PFICENX LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

raised to the jurisdiction of the court -to decree a sale, on the.
ground that by the trust deeds the sales were to be made by'
the trustees, and overrules it. It says: "The present case
contains many particular features which seem to render the
jurisdiction of the court absolutely indispensable in order .that
a fair sale should be made, and bidders should know beforehand that they could get a valid title under a decree in -which
the rights of every person having a claim upon the property
had been ascertained and settled. From the face of the bill
it appears that the property in question has been subdivided
into numerous lots. Some of the deeds of trust are liens upon
all the lots; others upon some of them only. Payments have
been made on account of some of the claims, and none upon
others. The aggregate liens exceed the value of the property,
and the owner is apparently insolvent. Purchasers from Grant
subsequent to the liens are parties to the bill, and in justice to
them the securities should be marshalled. The parties in interest are numerous, and the complication of rights is so great
that nothing can settle them except a decree in equity." It
goes on to' hold that the order bf reference to the auditor was
eroneous in the then condition of the cause, and that the
issues raised by Grant ought to have been first tried in the
usual way.
On the 21st of May, 1877, by leave of the court in Special
Term, Grant filed amendments to his cross-bill. On the 23d
of July, 1877, the plaintiff by an order of the Special Term,
withdrew its replication filed March 20, 1876, and fled a
general replication to the answer of Grant, and set down for
argument the pleas filed with Giant's answer. On the 11th
of September, 1877, Grant fied-a supplemental answer, setting
up as a bar to the suit a decree made by the Supreme Court,
of the District of Columbia, in equity, in a suit wherein Aaron
Carter, Jr., and others were plaintiffs, and Grant and the
Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Company .and others were
defendants; and the company filed an answer to the amended
cross-bill of Grant.
On the 12th of February, 1878, the court in General Term,
on an application made by Grant at the Special Term and

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opiulon of the Court.

which it ordel"ed to be heard in the first instance by the General Term, made an order vacating the receivership and directing the receiver to deliver to Grant possession of ten of the
Jots, and to pay into the registry of the court all moneys in
his hands derived from rents and profits.
On the 4th of March, 1878, the court in Special Term made
an order overruling all of the pleas filed by Grant. Grant appealed to the General Term from. so much of this order as
overruled the 2d, 3d and 4th pleas.
On the 2d of July, 1879, the General Term affirmed the
order of the Special Term overruling the 2d, 3d and 4th pleas,
and remanded the cause to the Special Term for further proceedings. On the 22d of November, 1879, the plaintiff filed
a replication joining .issue with Grant on his supplemental
answer to the bill.
Thereafter, testimony was taken by both parties on the
issues raised. Testimony was taken at Hartford, Connecticut,
on the part of the plaintiff, by commission. Grant moved to
suppress certain depositions taken under that commission. The
motion was granted as to three depositions and overruled as
to the others. Complaint is made by Grant that.upon the
motion to suppress lie was not permitted to read certain affidavits, and that he was denied leave to cross-examine orally
certain witnesses at Hartford, and that he was denied, an
extension of time in wvhich to take. testimony in rebuttal of
evidence taken on the part of the plaintiff at Hartford.
On the 9th of February, 1881, the Court' in Special Term
made an order referring the cause to the Court in General
Terin for hearing in the first instance.
-On the 2d of March$ 1882, the cause having been heard by
the General Term on the pleadings and proofs, a decree was
made by it declaring that Grant is not entitled to any relief
under his cross-bill; that the,plaintiff is the holder and owner
of -the several obligations of Grant secured by the deeds of
trust of the real estate the sale of which the bill prays for;
that. Grant has made default in the payment of his said obligations, on which he is indebted -to the plaintiff in large sums
of money; that"the taxes on the real estate are in arrear for

GRANT v. PH(ENIX LIFE INS. CO.
Qpinion of the Court.

more than $20,000; that the indebtedness of Grant to the
plaintiff largely exceeds the value of the real estate; that the
plaintiff has no personal security for its debt;- and referring
the cause to the auditor 6f the court to state the account
between the plaintiff and Grant, the amount due under the
deeds of trust, the amounts due to judgment and mechanics'
lien creditors, whether the same are liens upon any of the real
estate, the relative priorities of the claims of those creditors
and .tbe plaintiff, the value, of the real estate, the amount of
taxes in airear, and the particulars of any sales for taxes. The
decree also appoints a receiver in the cause, to take possession
of 12 of the lots and lease them, and enjoins Grant from
interfering with the receiver in his possession and control of
the property.
The reference was had before the auditor, and on the 1st of
May, 1882, he filed his report, finding that there was due on
that date from Gran.t to the plaintiff on the indebtedness
secured by the trust deeds $285,202.09 of principal, and 8225,117.98 of interest, making a: total of $510,32q.07. The report
also showed that the amount of taxes and "interest thereon, in
arrear, upon the real estate, was $48,755.05, and that the value
of the 14 lots and the improvements upon them was $137,000.
On the 5th of March, 1883, Grant filed exceptions to -the
auditor's report. The .case was- brought to a further hearing
in the General Term, on its interlocutory decree of March 2,
1882, And on the report of the auditor, and on the exceptions
of Grant thereto, and on the 16th of -June, 1883, it made afinal decree overruling the exceptions, confirming the report,
and dismissing the cross-bill of Grant, and decreeing that
unless Grant should, by a day specified, pay to the complainant the sum of $510,320.07, with interest on $285,202.09 from
May 1, 1882, and the costs of the suit, the 14 lots should be
sold by a trustee appointed by the .decree, anci the proceeds
of the sale should be brought into court to abide further
order. From that decree Grant has appealed to this court. •I
The first assigment of error is that the court erred in overruling the demurrer of Grant. - The bill seeks to foreclose the
equity of redemption of Grant in the property covered by

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

26 trust deeds executed to 5 different sets of trustees, the
plaintiff being th6 cestui que trust in all of them, either originally or by purchase. Some of these deeds cover only one lot,
others embrace two or more lots; and there is but one of
them which embraces all of the property. All of the trustees
are made defendants, and the bill has been duly taken pmo
confesso as to all ot them. As to Gallaudet and Paine, trustees in 22 of the 26 deeds, the bill alleges that they have
declined to execute their trusts. The bill also sets forth a
number of judgments and mechanics' liens held by parties
who are made defendants, -none of the mechanics' liens coveripg the whole. property, and a number of purchases of lots
from Grant. The objection mad6 is that the bill does not
show a right in the plaintiff to maintain the suit; that each
trust deed vests in its trustees a legal title to the property
.,covered by it, with power to sell; .that the interest of the
cestui que trust is represented by the trustees, who must
enforce the trust; and that unless the bill shows a failure on
their part to do so, through incapacity or otherwise, the cestui
que trut has no standing in court in its own right. The bill
alleges that, in 12 of the deeds of trust executed Tanuary 1,
1872, to Gallaudet and Paine as, trustees, the length' of notice
of the time and place of sale by advertisement is left blank;
that this wofild prevent the trustees from executing such
power of sale; but that in a court of equity the deeds would
be considered as mortgages. It is urged on the part of Grant
that this defective power of sale renders it the more necessary
that the trustees, rather than the eetui que .rust, should act
in either seeking a correction of the defect or in enforcing the
trust. But we think there is nothing in the objection thus
iaised. The case is one clearly of equity cognizance, for the
reasons above set forth and those contained in the opinion of
the General 'Term above quoted. No objection is made on
the part of any of the trustees to the maintenance of the suit.
The bill is taken as confessed as to all of them, and there is
no possible prejudice to the defendant Grant, in the bringing
of the bill in its actual shape by the cestui que trust.
Nor is the bill open to the objection that it is multifarious,

GRANT v. PHENIX LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

The fact that one of the deeds of trust covers the entire property, and that some of the creditors of Grant .vho were ni~de
defendants have liens upon various portions of that property,
makes it eminently proper, and indeed indispensable, if a clear
title is to be given by a salb, to adjudicate all the claims in
one suit.

The second assignment of error is that the General Term
erred in its decree of March 28, 1877, in remanding the cause
to the Special Term for further proceedings, after it had
reversed the decree of the Special Term of Dec-mber 11,
1876, and especially in then authorizing the plaintiff to apply
to the Special Term for such order as it might be advised in
regard to its replication. The ground taken is, that as, at the
time of the hearing which resulted in the decree of the Special
Term of December 11, 1876, no testimony had been taken
upon any of the issues raised by the pleadings, and as the
plaintiff had gone to-hearing in that state of the case, and had
obtained a decree of sale in the Special Term, that decree was
a final decree in its favor on the merits; and that, on the hearing'in the General Term, oni the appeal of Grant, upon the
samQ record, the General Term, finding the decree of the
Special Term to have been erroneous, was bound to enter a
decree on the merits in favor of Grant, reversing the decreb of
tie Special Term and dismissing the bilL. But-we are of opinion that the General Term had power to make its decree of
the 28th of March, 1877. The error of the Special Term was
in making a decree of sale on the report of the auditor, without a trial of the issues raised by the pleadings. For that
error its decree was reversed, and it was proper for the General Term to remand the cause to the Special Term for further
proceedings in the taking of testimony on the issues, and with
permission, to the parties to apply in the Special Term for leave
to amend their pleadings. This was, within § 779, of the
Revised Statutes of the District of C61umbia, a modification
of the decree of the Special Term, on an appeal involving the
merits of the action. The decree of the General Term reversed
that of the Special Term and vacated the order of reference to
the auditor, and all proceedings thereunder, and the further
VOL. cxx--8

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

directions in the decree of the General Term were but modifi.
cations of the decree of the Special Term.
The third assignment of error is, that the court erred in not
sustaining Grant's defence of res adjudicat, as set up in his
supplemental answer of September 11, 1877.
There is
attached to that answer a transcript of the record in the suit of
Carter and others against Grant and others. The bill in that
case was filed on the 80th of October, 1872, and was brought
by three judgment creditors of Grant, on their own behalf and
that of all others similarly situated, who should become parties. The defendants in it were Grant and his wife, the Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Company, the trustees in the
various trust deeds sought to be enforced by that company,
and various creditors of Grant. It set forth the existence of
the various deeds of trust mentioned in the bill in this suit, and
prayed for the sale of 12 of the lots covered by those deeds.
of trust, and that the proceeds of the sale, after satisfying all
valid prior liens upon, the lots, be applied to the payment of
the complainants' judgments. An amended and supplemental
bill having been filed in the Carter suit, the Phcenix Mutual
Life Insurance Company fied an answer, on the 12th of June,
1874, setting up that Grant is indebted to it in the full amount,
called foi by the several deeds of trust held by it; that the
amount of said indebt dness is equal to tlie value of the property; and that it is willing that the property should be sold
under the decree of the court and all equities adjusted on the
distribution of the fund, claiming, at the same time, that the
judgment creditors have no standing in court without having
first offered to redeem the incumbrances on the property
which .are prior in date to the judgments. After a decree by
the Special Term in favor of the plaintiffs in the Carter suit,
directing a sale of 12 of the lots free from all liens, and
that the prodeeds be brought into court, and that all equities
between the parties to the cause be reserved for consideration
on the distribution of the fund, the General Term, on an
appeal to it by Grant from the decree, reversed it on the 6th
of March, 1875, and dismissed the bill.
We are of opinion that there is nothing in the record of the

GRANT v. PH(ENIX LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion 'of the Court.

Carter suit, or in the above-recited proceedings therein, or in
any other proceedings therein, which operates to. sustain the
The Phcenix Company was a dedefence of res adjudieat.
fendant, and merely a defendant, in the Carter suit, subject to
the decree which might be. made therein, setting up and maintaining its claims, and expressing its willingness that the property in question should be sold and the equities adjusted on
the distribution of the proceeds of sale. The plaintiffs' bill
-being dismissed out of cour, there is nothing which oan operate as a bar to the bill in the present suit.
The fourth assignment of error is, that the court erred in
overruling the 2d, 3d and 4th pleas to the bill. The ground
on which the General Term affirmed the order of the Special
Term overruling the pleas is stated in the opinion of the General Term, delivered by Mr. Justice Cox, MacArthur & Mackey,
117,to have been, that the 2d, 3d and 4th pleas,, to which alone
the appeal related, raised defences that were covered by the
answer of Grant. That answer distinctly sets -upthe defence
of usury, covered by the 3d plea, and the defence of payment,
covered by the 4th. plea. The 2d plea, relating to the want
of proper paa ties, was overruled on the ground that the necessity of making the omitted' persons parties was not apparent.
We concur in the disposition made, for the reasons thus stated,
of these pleas. The 'defendant has had, 'under his answer, the
benefit of the defences of usury and payment set up in the 3d
and 4:th pleas; and the rule that no plea is to be hbld bad only
because the answer may extend to some part of the same
matter as may be covered by thie plea, is not applicable where
the answer extends to the whole of the matter covered by the.
plea.
The fifth assignment of error complains that the court overruled the motion of Grant to suppress certain depositions taken
by the plaintiff at Hartford, when these depositions had been
taken ater the time limited for the taking of depositions by
the plaintiff, and the witnesses had refused to answer certain
cross-interrogatories propounded by Grant, and for other irregularities appearing on the motion to suppress the depositions;
and the sixth assignment of error complains that the court

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

erred in refusing to allow Grant further time to take depositions in. rebuttal of the depositions on the part of the plaintiff.
We are unable to see that.the court did not exercise a proper
discretion in its action in the matter thus complained of.
The seventh assignment of error is, that the court took the
property in controversy out of the possession of Grant by the
appointment of a receiver before a sale, and thus deprived him

of the use. of the property and of its rents and profits; and
that it erred in the final decree, in finding the equities of the
case in favor of the plaintiff and against Grant, and in dismissing, the cross-bill of Grant and ordering a sale of the
property.
The original order for the appointment of a receiver was
made on the 7th of May, 1875. It put into the possession of
the receiver ten of the lots, with power to collect the rents of
such of them as had been rented and to lease the others.
After a lapse of thirty-three months, and on the 12th of February, 1878, the General Term, in which a motion to discharge
the receiver was heard in the first instance by order of the
Special Term, made an order vacating the receivership. The
opinion of the General Term in this matter, reported in 3 MacArthur, 220, shows that the gr6und taken by the majority of
the five judges, (tw6 of thdm dissenting froa the decision,) in
discharging the receivership, was, that it had failed to accomplish its purpose, and that the property was going to destruction without yielding a revenue sufficient to pay the ordinary,
taxes. The receivership was renewed by the decree of the
General Term of March 2, 1882, establishing the rights of the
plaintiff and ordering a sale of the twelve lots. The defendant contends that the court had no power, before a sale to appoint a receiver of the property involved in the litigation,
and
thus'deprive him of its use and of its rents and profits, on the
ground that. the trust deeds do not embrace the rents and
profits of the property. But we are of opinion that the original appointment of a receiver, and.-the appointment of one
made by the decree of the General Term, of March 2, 1882,
were proper, and were a reasonable exercise of the discretion
of the court, within the principlstated by this court, speak-

GRANT v. PH(ENIX LIFE INS. CO.

117 "

Opinion of the Court.

llotel Co.,
ing by Mr. Justice Bradleyj in Kountze v. Omw
107 U. S. 378, 395, in these words: "Courts of equity always
have the power, where the debtor is insolvent, and the mortgaged property i an insufficient security for the debt, and
there is good cause to believe that it will be wasted or deteriorated in the hands of the mortgagor, as by cutting of tinber,
suffering dilapidation, &c., to take charge-of the property by
means of a receiver, and preserve not only the corpus, but the
rents and profits, for the satisfaction of the debt." The circumstances which, within this rule, justified the exercise of
the discretion of the court in appointing a receiver originally,
existed in greater force when th6 receiver was appointed by
the decree of March 2, 1882. A point is made, that, as the
appointment of the receiver made by the interlocutory decree
of March 2, 1882, was not expressly continued by the final
decree of June 16, 18.83, it was superseded; but there is no
force in this suggestion.
In the final decree, the Court found to be due the whole debt
shown on the face of the trust deed of August 26, 1871, to
Davis and Downinan, trustees, covering 14 lots, to secure
$40,000 due to one Fletcher, and also the whole debt shown
on the face of the 12 trust deeds of January 1, 1882, to Gallaudet and Paine, to secure in the aggregate to the plaintiff
$81,000. It is claimed by Grant that the trust deed to Davis
and Downman, and the several trust deeds to Gallaudet and
Paine, were executed to secure loans from the plaintiff; that
Fletcher was the agent of the plaintiff in the Davis and Downman trust deed; and that the trust deeds of January 1, 1872,
to Gallaudet and Paine, for $81,000, provided for and in effect
paid the $40,000 Fletcher indebtedness secured by the Davis
and Downian trust deed. We have examined the evidence
on this point, and are of opinion that the contention of Grant
is not sustained by it. It is not profitable -to.discuss it.
It is also contended by Grant, that the loans received .by
him from the plaintiff were upon usurious interest to the
amount of $9000, and that thereby the entire interest decreed was forfeited. But we are of opinion that the evidence
shows that the commissions paid by Grant upon the loans, (in

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

which the usury is alleged to have consisted ) were not paid
to the plaintiff. The plaintiff made no contract for usurious
interest nor did it take any Call v. Pakmer, 116 U. S. 98.
The gravamen of the cross-bill of Grant is, that his debt to
the plaintiff was extinguished by reason of a contract of sale
entered into by him with it, by which, in consideration of the
advances it had made to him, and of the amount due from
him to it on the several trust deeds, and certan other considerations, he agreed to convey to it 11 of the lots involved m
this litigation. It is suifficient to say, that the proofs do not
sustain the existence of any such contract. No such contract
was ever executed m writing, none was even in part performed
by either of the parties, and letters which passed between
them subsequently to.March 1, 1873, (the alleged date of the
contract,) show that no such contract was understood by them
to exist.
Other minor considerations are urged in the briefs of the
appellant, which we have considered, but which it is not
deemed important to discuss at length. We see- no error m
the final decree of the court below, and it is
Affirmed.

GRANT & Another v. PH(ENIX

LIFE INSURANCE

COMPANY
APPEAL FROIN

THE SUPR]iEME

COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMhBIA.

Argued March 25, 157.- Decided April 4,1857.

In a suit in equity to enforce trust deeds, a receiver appointed to receive
rents and to lease unrented property, may apply to the court for directions in regard to the expenditure of funds in his hands as receiver.
The reference of a suit in equity by the Special Term of the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia to the General Term for hearing in the first
instance does not deprive the Special Term of authority to afterwards
hear such application of the receiver, especially when the General Term
has made an order granting leave to the receiver to apply to the Special
Term for instructions.
Such an application may be made bv the receiver to the Special Term even

