CASES ADJUDGED
IlN

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.

EX PARTE BAILN.
ORIGINAL.
Argued March 8, 1887.-Decided March 28, 1887.

The declaration of Article V of the Amendments to the Constitution, that
"no person shall be held to answer for a capital or otherwise infamous
crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury," is jurisdictional, and no court of the United States has authority to try a prisoner
without indictment or presentment in such cases.
The indictment here referred to is the presentation to the proper court,
under oath, by a grand jury, duly impanelled, of a charge describing an
offence against-the law for which the party charged may be punished.
When this indictment is filed with the court no change can be made in the
body of the instrument by order of the court, or by the pr6secuting attorney, without a re-submission of the case to tfle grand jury. Aild the
fact that the court may deem the change immaterial, as striking out of
surplus words, makes no difference. The instrument, as thus changed, is
no longer the indictment of'the grand jury which presented it.
This was the doctrine of the English courts under the common law. It is
the uniform ruling of the American courts, except where statutes prescribe a different rule, and it is the imperative requirement of the provision of the Constitution above recited, which would be of little avail if
an indictment once found can be changed by the prosecuting officer, with
consent of the court, to conform, to their views of the necessity of the
case.
Upon an indictment so changed the court can proceed no farther. There is
nothing (in the language of the Constitution) which the prisoner can
"be held to answer." A trial on such indictment is void. There is
nothing to try.
VOL. CXXI-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.
According to principles long settled In this court'the prisoner, Who stands
sentenced to the penitentiary on such trial, is entitled to his discharge by
writ of habeas corpus.

Tns was a petition for a writ of habeas corpus.
is stated in the opinion of the court.

The case

.Mr. Richard Walke and Mr. W. TF. Crump for the petitioner. .Ai. I. ?. -Pagewas with them on the brief.
.X&. Attorney General and Xr. John Catlett Gib8on, District
Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, opposing.
MR. JusTiCE MiLL-ER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an application to this court for a writ of habeas corpus to relieve the petitioner, George M. Bain, Jr., from the
custody of Thomas W. Scott, United States 'Marshal for the
Eastern District of Virginia. The original -petition set out
with particularity proceedings in the Circuit Court of the
United States for that district, in which the petitioner was
convicted, under § 5209 of the .Revised'Statutes, of having
made a false report or statement as cashier of the Exchange
National Bank of Norfolk, Virginia. The petition has annexed to it as an exhibit all the proceedings, so far as they ar6
necessary in the case, from the order for the impanelling of a
grand jury to the final judgment of the court, sentencing the
prisoner to imprisonment for five years in the Albany penitentiary. Upon this application the court directed a rule to
be, served upon the marshal to show cause why the writ should
not issue, to which that officer made the following return:
"Comes the said Scott, as marshal aforesaid, and states that
there is no sufficient showing made by the said Bain that he is
.illegally held and confined in custody of respondent; but, on
the contrary, his confinement is under the judgment and sentence of a court having competent jurisdiction to indict and
try him, and he should not be released; and respondent prays
the judgment of this court, that the rule entered herein against
him be discharged, and the prayer of the petition be denied."
The Attorney General of the United States and the District

EX PARTE BAIN.
Opinion of the Court.

Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia appeared ill opposition to the motion, and thus the merits of the case were
fully presented upon the application for the issue of the writ.
Upon principles which may be considered to be well settled
in this court, it ban have no right to issue this writ as a means
of reviewing the, judgment of the Circuit Court, simply upon
the ground of error in its proceedings; but if it shall appear
that the court had no jurisdiction to render the judgment
which it gave, and -under which the petitioner is held a prisoner, it is within the -power and it will be the duty of this
court to order his discharge. The jurisdiction of that court is
denied in this case upon two principal grounds; the first of
these relates to matters connected with .the impanelling of the
grand jury and its competency to find the indictment under
which the petitioner was convicted; the second refers to a
change made in the indictment, after it was found, by striking
out some :words in it, and -then proceeding to ty the prisoner
upon the indictment as thus changed. We will proceed to examine the latter ground first.
Section 5209 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
under which this indictment is found, reads as follows:
"Every president, director, cashier, teller, clerk, or agent of
any association, who embezzles, abstracts, or wilfully misapplies any of the moneys, funds, or credits .of the association;
or who, without authority from the directors, issues' or puts in
circulation any of the notes of the association; or who,without such authority, issues or puts forth any certificate of
deposit, draws any order or bill of exchange, makes any
acceptance, 'assigns any note, bond, draft, bill* of exchange,
mortgage, judgment, or decree; or who makes an false entry
in any book, report, or statement of the association, with
intent, in either case, to injure or defraud the association or
any other company, body politic or corporate, or. any individual person, or to deceive.any officer of the association, or any
agent appointed to examine the affairs of any such association; and every person who with like intent aids or abets any
officer, clerk, or agent in'any violation of this section, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be imprisoned not
less than five years nor more than ten."

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Section 5211 requires every banking association organized
under this act of Congress to "make to the Comptroller of the
Currency not less than five reports during each year,
verified by the oath or affirmation of the president or cashier
of such association, and attested by the signatures of at least
three of the directors."
The indictment in this case, which contains but a single
count, and is very long, sets out one of these reports, made on
the 17th day of March, 1885, by the petitioner, as cashier, and
Charles E. Jenkins, Tohn B. Whitehead, and Orlando Windsor, as directdrs, of the Exchange National Bank of Norfolk, a
national banking association. The indictment also points out
numerous false statements in this report, which, it is alleged
in the early part of it, were made ', with intent to injure and
defraud the said association and other companies, bodies politic
and corporate, and individual persons to the jurors aforesaid
unknown, and with the intent then 'and there to deceive any
agent appointed by the Comptroller of the Currency to examine
the affairs of said association." Following this allegation come
the specifications of the particulars in which the report is false,
and the concluding part charges that the defendants, "and each
of them, did then and there well know and believe the said
report and statement to be false to the extent and in the mode
and manner above set forth; and that they, and each of them,
made said false statement and report in manner and form as
above set forth with intent to deceive the Comnptrolfer of.the
Currency and the agent appointed to examine the affairs of
said association, and to injure, deceive, and defraud the United
States and said association and the depositors thereof, and
other banks and, hational banking associations, and divers
other persons and associations to the jurors aforesaid unknown,
against the peace of the United States and their dignity, and
contrary to the form of the statute of the said United States
in uch case made and provided."
The defendants having been permitted to withdraw the
pleas of not guilty which they had entered, were then allowed
to demur to the indictment, and as it is important to be accurate in stating what was done about this demurrer, the transcript of the record on thkt subject is here inserted:

EX PARTE BAIN.
Opinion of the Court
"United States

Indictment for makV.
Geo. M. Bain, Jr., John B. Whitehead, | ing faise entries, &c.
Orlando Windsor and 0. E. Jenkins. I
"This day came the parties, by their attorneys, pursuant to
the adjournment order entered herein on the.13th day of November, 1886, and thereupon the defendants, by their counsel,
asked leave to withdraw the pleas heretofore entered, which,
being granted, they submitted their demurrer to the indictment, which, .ter argument, was sustained; and thereupon,
on motion of the United States, by counsel, the court order§
that the indictment be amended by striking out the words
'the Comptroller of the Cutrrency and' therein contained.
"Thereupon, on motion of John B. Whitehead and 0. E.
Jenkins, by their counsel, for a severance of trial, it was
ordered by the court that the ease be so severed that George
:M. Bain, Jr., cashier and director, be tried separately from
John B. Whitehead, Orlando Windsor and C. E. Jenkins,
directors.
"Thereupon the trial of George MV.Bain, Jr., was taken up,
and the said defendant, George M. Bain, Jr., entered his, plea
of not guilty2'
This was done December 13, 1886, thirteen months after
the presentment of the indictment by the grand jury, and
probably long after it had been discharged.
A verdict of guilty was found against Bain, a motion for a
new trial was made, and then a motion in arrest of judgment,
both of which were overruled. The opinion of the circuit
judge on the question which we are about to consider, delivered in overruling that motion, is found in the rdcord.
The proposition, that in the courts of the United States any
part of the body of an indictment can be amended after it
has been found and presented by a grand jury, either by order
of the court or on the request of the prosecuting attorney,
w.ithout being re-submitted to them for their approval, is one
requiring serious consideration. Whatever judicial precedents
there may have been for such action in other courts, we are at
once confronted with the fifth of those articles of amendment,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

adopted early after the Constitution itself was .formed, and
which were manifestly intended mainly for the security of
personal rights, This article begins its enumeration of these
rights by declaring that "no person shall be held to answer
for a capital, or otherwise infamous, crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury," except in a class of
cases of which this is not one.
We are thus not left to the iequirements of the common
law, in regard to the necessity- of a grand jury or a trial jury,
but there is the positive and restrictive language' of the great
fundamental instrument by which the national government is
organized, that "no person shall be held to answer" for such
a crime, "unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand
jury."1
But even at common law it is beyond question that in the
English courts indictments could not be amended. The authorities upon this subject are numerous and unambiguous. In
the great case of Rex v. Wilkes, 4 Burrow, 2527, tried in 1770,
which attracted an immense deal of public attention, Wilkes,
after being convicted by a jury of having printed and caused
to be published a seditious and scandalous libel, was brought
up before the court of King's Bench on a motion to set aside
the verdict, on the ground that an amendment had been made
in the language of the information on which he was tried. In
the course of an opinion delivered by Lord Mansfield overruling the motion, he remarks, on this subject (page 2569),
that "there is a great difference between amending indictments and amending informations. Indictments are found
upon the oaths of a jury, and ought only to be amended by
themselves; but informations are as declarations in the King's
suit. An officer of the Crown has the right of framing them
originally; he may, with leave, amend in like manner, as any
plaintiff may do."
Mr. Justice Yates, on the same occasion, said that indictments,
being upon oath, cannot be amended (page 2570).
Hawkins, in his Pleas of the Crown, Book 2, c. 25, § 97,
says:
"I take it to be settled that no criminal prosecution is

EX PARTE BAIN..
Opinion of the Court.

within the benefit of any of the statutes of Amendments;
from whence it follows that no'amendment can be admitted
in any such prosecution but such only as is allowed by the
common law. And agreeably hereto I find it laid down as a
principle in some books, that the body of an indictment removed into the King's Bench from any inferior court whatsoever, except only those of London, can in no case be amended.
is said that the body of an indictment from London
But 'it
may be amended, because, by the city charter, a tenor of the*
record only can be removed from thence."
He further says, § 98:
"It seems to have been anciently the' common practice,
where an indictment appeared to be insufficient, either for its
uncertainty or the want of proper legal words, not to put the
defendant to answer it; but, if it were found in the same
county in which the court sat, to award process against the
grand jury to conle into court and amend it. And it seems to
be the common practice at this day, while the grand jury who
found a bill is befor6 the court, to amend it, by their consent,
iii a matter of-form, as the name or addition of the party."
This language is repeated in Starkie's Criminal Pleading, p.
287. There are, however, several cases in which it has been decided that the caption of an indictment may be amended, and we
therefore give here the language of Starkie, p. 258 as describing
what is meant by the phrase "caption of an indictment."
"Where an inferior c6urt," he says, "in obedieiice to a writ
of certiorarifrom the King's Bench,. transmits the indictment
to the Crown office, it is accompanied with a formal history of
the proceeding, describing the court before which the indictment was found, the jurors by whom it was found, and the
time and place where it was found. This instrument; termed
a schedule, is annexed to the indictment, and both are sent to
the Crown office. The history of the proceedings, as copied
or eitracted from the schedule, is called the caption,and is
entered of record immediately before the indictment."
It will be seen that, as thus explained, the caption is no part
of the instrument found by the grand jury.
Wharton, in-his work on Criminal Pleading and Practice,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

§ 90, says: "1Noinconsiderable portion of the difficulties in the
way of the criminal pleader at common law have been removed
in England by the I Geo. 4, c. 64, §§ 20, 21; 11 & 12 Vict.,
c. 46, and 14 & 15 Vict., c. 100, and in most of the states of
the American Union, by statutes containing similar provisions."
He also cites cases in the English courts, where amendments
have been made under those statutes, but they can have no
force as authority in this country, even if they permitted such
amendments as the one under consideration.
No authority has been cited to us in the American courts
which sustains the right of a court to amend any part of the
body of an indictment without reassembling the grand jury,
unless by virtue of a statute. On the contrary, in the case of
Commonwealth v. Child, 13 Pick. 198, 200, Chief Justice Shaw
says: "It is a well-settled rule of law that the statute respecting amendments does not extend to indictments; that a defective indictment cannot be aided by a verdict, and that an
indictment bad on demurrer must be held insufficient upon a
motion in arrest of judgment."
In the case of the Commonwealth v. Mahcr, 16 Pick. 120,
the court, having-held upon the arraignment of the defendant
that the indictment was defective, the Attorney General moved
to amend it, and the prisoner's counsel consented that the name
of William Hayden, as the owner of the house in which the offence had been committed, should be inserted, not intending,
however, to admit that Hayden was in fact the owner. "But
the court were of opinion that this was a case in which an
amendment could not be allowed, even with the consent of
the prisoner."
In the case of Commonwealth v. Drew, 3 Cush. 219, Chief
Justice Shaw said: "Where it is found that there is some mistake in an indictment, as a wrong name or addition, or the
like, and the grand jury can be again appealed to, as there
can be no amendment of an indictment by the court, the
proper course is for the grand jury to return a new indictment,
avoiding the defects in the first."
In the case of the State v. Sexton, 3 Hawks (Y.C.) 184,1 the
I S. C. 14 Am. Dee. 584.

-

EX PARTE BAIN.
Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court of that state said: "It is a familiar rule that
the indictment should state that the defendant committed the
offence on a specific day and year, but it is unnecessary to
prove, in any case, the precise day and year, except where the
time enters into the nature of the offence. But if the indictment lay the offence to have been committed on an impossible
day, or on a future day, the objection is as fatal as if no time
at all had been inserted. Nor are indictments within the
operation of the statutes of jeofails, and cannot therefore be
amended; being the finding of a jury upon oath, the court
cannot amend without the concurrence of the grand jury by
whom the bill is found. These rules are too plain to require
authority, and show that the judgment of the court was right,
and must be affirmed."
It will be perceived that the amendment in that case had
reference to a matter which the law did not require to be
proved, as it was alleged, and which to that extent was not
material.
The same proposition was held ;n the New York Court of
General Sessions, in the case 6f 27w People v. Camplbell, 4
Parker's Cr. Cas. 386, 387, where it was laid down that the
averments in an indictment could not be changed, even by
consent of the defendant.
The learned judge who presided in the Circuit Court at the
time the change was made in this indictment, says that the
court allowed the words "Comptroller of the Currency and"
to be stricken out as surplusage, and required the defendant to
plead to the indictment as it then read. The opinion which
he rendered on the motion in arrest of judgment, referring to
this branch of the case, rests the validity of the court's action
in permitting the change in the indictment, upon the ground
that the words stricken out were surplusage, and were not at
all material to it, and that no injury was done to the prisoner
by allowing such change to be made.. He goes on to argue
that the grand jury would have found the indictment without
this language. But it is not for the court to say whether they
would or not. The party can only be tried upon the indictment as found by such grand jury,, and especially upon all

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

its language found in the charging part of that instrument.
While it may seem to the court, with -its better instructed'
mind in regard to what the statute requires to be found as to
tle intent to deceive, that it was neither necessary nor reasonable that the grand jury should attach importance to the fact
that it was the Comptroller who, was to be deceived, yet it is not
impossible nor very improbable that the grand jury looked
mainly to that officer as the party whom the prisoner intended
to deceive by a report which was made upon his requisition
and returned directly to him. As we have already seen, the
statute requires these reports. to be made to'the Comptroller
at least five times a year, and the averment of the indictment
is that this report was made and returned to that officer in
response to his requisition for it. How can the court say that
there may not have been -more than one of the jurors who
found this indictment, who was satisfied that the false report
was made to deceive the Comptroller, but was not convinced
that it was made to deceive anybody else? And how can it
be said that, with these words stricken out, it is the indictment
which was found by the grand jury? If it lies within the
province of a court to change the charging part of an indictmen to suit its own notions of what it ought to have been, or
what the grand jury would probably have made it if their
attention had been called to suggested changes, the great importanice which the common law attaches to an indictment by
a grand jury, as a prerequisite to a prisoner's trial for a crime,
and without which the Constitution says "no person shall be
held to answer," may be frittered away until its value is
alnosf destroyed.
The importance of the part played by the grand jury in
England cannoz be better illustrated than by the language
of Justice Field in a charge-to a grand jury reported in 2
Sawyer, 667 :
"The institution of the grand jury," he says, "is of very ancient origin in. the history of England-it goes back many
centuries. For a long period its powers were not clearly defined; and it would seem from the account of commentators
on the 'laws of that country that it was at first a body which

EX PARTE BAIN.
Opinion of the Court.

not only accused, but which also tried, public offenders. However this may have been in its origin, it was at the time of the
settlement of this country an informing and accusing tribunal
only, without whose previous action no person charged with a
*felony could, except in certain special cases, be put upon his
trial. And in the struggles which at times arose in England
between the powers of the king and the rights of the subject,
it often stood as a barrier against persecution in his name;
until, at length, it came to be regarded as an institution by
which the subject was rendered secure against oppression from
unfounded prosecutions of the crown. In this country, from
the popular character of our institutions, there has seldom
been any contest between the government and the citizen
which required the existence of the grand jury a. a protection
against oppressive action of -thegovernment. Yet the institution was adopted in this country, and is continued from considerations similar to those which give to it its chief value in
England, and is'designed as a means, not only 9f bringing to
trial persons accused of public offences upon just-grounds, but
also as a means of protecting the citizen against unfounded accusation,'whether it comes from government, or be prompted
by partisan passion or private enmity. No person shall be required, according to the fundamental law of the country, except in the cases mentioned, to answer for any of the higher
crimes unless this body, consisting of not less than sixteen nor
more than twenty-three good and lawful men, selected from
the body of the district, shall declare, upon careful deliberation, under the solemnity of an oath, that there is good reason
for his accusation and trial.".
The case of H'Trtado v. The People of California,110 U. S.
-516, was a writ of error to the Supr.eme Court of that state,
by a party who had been convicted of the crime of murder in
the state court upon an information instead of an indictment.
The writ of error from this court was founded on the proposition that the provision of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, that no state shall "deprive
any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of
law," required an indictment as necessary to due process of

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

law. This court held otherwise, and that it was within the
power of the states to provide, punishment bf all manner of
crimes without indictment by a grand jury. The nature and
value of a grand jury, both in this country and in the English
system of law, were much discussed in that case, with references to Coke, Magna Charta, and to other sources of information on that subject, both in the opinion of the court and in
an'exhaustive review of that question by Mr. Justice Harlan
in a dissenting opinion.
It has been said that, since there is no danger to the citizen
from the oppressions of a monarch, or of any form of executive power, there is no longer need of a grand jury. But,
whatever force may be given to this argument, it -remains true
that the grand jury is as valuable as ever in securing, in the
language of Chief Justice Shaw in the case of ones'v. -ZoS
lins, 8 Gray, 329, "individual citizens" "from an open and
public accusation of crime, and from the trouble, expense, and
anxiety of a public trial before a probable cause is established
by the presentment and indictment of a grand jury;" and "in
case of high offences" it "is justly regarded as one of the,
securities to the innocent against hasty, malicious, and oppressive public prosecutions."
It is never to be forgotten that, in the construction of the
language of the Constitution here relied on, as indeed in all
other instances where construction becomes necessary, we are
to place ourselves as nearly as possible in the condition of the
men who framed that instrument. Undoubtedly the framers
of this article had for a long time been absorbed in considering the arbitrary encroachments of the crown on the. liberty
of the subject, and were imbued with the common law estimate of the value of the grand jury as part of its system of
criminal jurisprudence. They, therefore, must be understood
to have used the language which they did in declaring that no
person should be called to answer for any- capital or otherwise infamous crime, except upon an indictment or presentment of a grand jury, in the full sense of its necessity and of
its value. 'We are of the opinion that an indictment found by
a grand jury was indispensable to the power of the court to

EX PARTE BAIN.
Opinion of the Court.

try the petitioner for the crime with which he was charged.
The sentence of the court was that he-should be imprisoned in
the penitentiary at Albany. The case of &xparte Wilson,
114 IT.S. 417, and the later one of tYakin v. United States,
117 U. S. 348, establish the proposition that this prosecution
was for an infamous crime within the meaning of the constitutional provision.
It only remains to consider whether this change in the
indictment deprived the court of the power of proceeding to
try the petitioner and sentence him to the imprisonment provided for in the statute. We have no difficulty in holding that
the indictment on which he was tried was no indictment of a
grand jury. The decisions which we have already referred
to, as -well as sound principle, require us to hold that after the
indictment was changed it was no longer the indictment of
the grand jury who presented it. Any other doctrine would
place the rights of the citizen, which were intended to be protected by the constitutional provision, at the mercy or control
of the court or prosecuting attorney; for, if it be once held that
changes can be -made by the consent or the order of the court
in the body of the indictment as presented by the grand jury,
and the prisoner can be called upon to answer to the indictment as thus changed, the restriction which the Constitution
.places upon the power of the court, in regard to the prerequisite of an indictment, in reality no longer exists. It is of no
avail, under such circumstances, to say that the court still has
jurisdictibn of the person and of the crime; for, though it has
possession of the person, and -would have jurisdiction of the
crime, if it were properly presented by indictment, the jurisdiction of the offence is gone, and the court has no right to
proceed any further in the progress of the case for want of an
indictment. If there is nothing before the court which the
prisoner, in the language of the Constitution, can be "held to
answer," he is then entitled to be discharged so far as the
offence originally presented .tothe court by the indictment is
concerned. The poiver. of. the court to .proceed to try the
prisoner is as much arrested as if the indictment tLad been' dismissed or a nolle prosequi had been entered. . There was

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

nothing before the court on which it could hear evidence o
pronounce sentence. The case comes within the principles
laid down by this court in Ex _varte -Lange,18 Wall. 163; E
parte Parks, 93 U. S. 18; Ex arte Wilson, 111 U. S. 417,
and other cases.
These views dispense with the. necessity of examining into
the questions argued before us concerning the formation of
the grand jury and its removal from place to place within the
district. We are of opinion that
The 2petitioneris entitled to the writ of habla8 corpu8, and it
is -accordinglygranted.

WORDEN v. SEARLS.
AA'PEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF 3ICHIGAN.
Argued March 17, 1887. -Decided

March 28, 1887.

Reissued letters-patent No. 5400, grdinted to Eristus W. Scott and Anson
Searls, May 6th, 1873, for in "improvement in whip-sockets,"' on an
application forreissue filed January 16, 1873, (the original letters-patent,
No.70,627, having been granted to E. W. Scott, November 5, 1867, on an
application filed August 23, 1867,) are invalid, as an unlawful expansion
of the original patent.
A whip-holder constructed in accordance with the specification and drawings of letters-patent No. 70,075, granted to Henry M.- Curtis and Alva
Worden, October 22, 1867, for an "improvement in self-adjusting whipholder," did not infringe the original Scott patent, regarding the Scott
invention as earlier in date than that of Curtis and Worden, and the
Scott patent was reissued with a view of covering the device of Curtis
and Worden.
In a suit in equity, on the patent, a preliminary injunction having been
granted and -violated, the Circuit Court, in proceedings and by two
orders, entitled in the suit, found the defendants guilty of contempt,
and, by one order, directed that they pay to the plaintfff $250, "as a fine
for said violation," and the costs of the proceeding, and stand committed
till payment; and, by the other order directed that the defendants pay
a fine of $1182 to the clerk, to be paid over by him to the plaintiff "for
damages and costs," and stand committed till payment, the $1182 being

