THE JOHN H. PEARSON.
Statement of Facts.

THE JOHN H. PEARSON."
AP'EAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Argued April 11,12, 1887.-Decided April 25,1887.

A vessel was chartered to carry a cargo of oranges from Palermo to Boston. The words "captain engages himself to take the northern passage" were written into the printed -blank. The cargo was badly
damaged, and the charterers libelled the vessel to recover for the loss.
The court below found that "northern passage" appeared from the
proof to be a term of art, anintelligible without the aid of testimony,
that the evidence concerning it was conflicting, and that it was immaterial to decide it, as the claimant was entitled to the least strict definition, and the actual course of the vessel came within that definition.
Hleld, that this was error; that if the term was a term of art, it should
have been found by the court; and that if there was no passage knotin
as "northern," the vessel was bound to take the one which would
carry it in a northerly direction through the coolest waters into the
coolest temperature, and the court should have asceitained from the
proof what passages between Gibraltar and Boston vessels were accustomed to take, and should have determined which of them the contract
permitted the vessel to choose.

Tins was an appeal in admiralty, and presented the following facts:
The barque John I. Pearson was chartered to carry a
cargo, consisting m9stly of oranges, for the libellants, from
Palermo, Sicily, to Boston, Massachusetts. The charter party
contained the words "captain engages himself to take the
northern passage," inserted at the instance of the libellants,
for the benefit of the cargo, ana written into the printed
blank. The cargo was badly damaged on the voyage, and
this suit was brought to recover for the loss.. The controversy
is as to whether the vessel, in going from Gibraltar to Boston,
took the "northern passage."
The court found that "shippers of fruit consider it of very
.groat importance for the preservation of the cargo that it be
kept in as cold a temperature as possible, short .of the freezing

OCTOBER TERMNI, 1886.
Argument for AppeUees.

point, and have been accustomed for many years to instruct
masters to take a northerly course;" and, after setting forth
other facts, stated as "conclusions of law" the following:
"1. The term ' northern passage' appears, in view of the
testimony of merchants and seamen introduced on both sides,
to be a term of art, and is, when taken by itself, without the
aid of such testimony, unintelligible.
"The testimony introduced by the libellants tended to show
that the phrase meant a passage from Gibraltar to the Great
Banks, and thence direct to Boston, keeping as much to the
north as possible durifig the entire passage; that anything between that and the southern passage was the middle passage.
"That introduced by the claimant tended to show that it
meant anything north of latitudes 300 to 35 ° or 360, or of the
southern passage;. and that the middle passage was anything
between the southern passage and the northern, as described
by the respective witnesses.
"It Was admitted that the southern passage was in the trade
winds.
"2. Upon this testimony, the court, thinking that the true
meaning of the term is very doubtful, does not consider it material, and does not undertake to decide whether a, preponderance of the evide~ice favors one of the above definitions or
another, and rules that the claimant is entitled to the least
itrict definition, and that, as the course of the barque comes
within such definition, there is. no deviation."
The libel was dismissed, and from a decree to that effect
th's appeal was taken. The opinion of the Circuit Court is
reported in 14 Fed. lRep. 749.
for appellants.
.
Mr. H en'y TP'unan
XrI. -FredeiricDodge for appellees.
The facts found do not of themselves establish any construction of the phrase "northern passage," still less the construction. claimed by appellant. There is nothing in the facts
found which casts upon the appellee any burden of proof, or
warrants any presumption which must be rebutted by him.

THE JOHN H. PEARSON.
Argument for Appellees.

Upon a resort to evidence for the meaning of the phrase in
question, the stricter construction contended for by the appellant is not established by a mere preponderance of -evidence in
favor of his construction; -still less in the case of an equal
balance of opposing evidence as to the meaning. The appellants have to show, in order to establish their interpretation,
not merely that there is a wage such as they claim as to
the meaning, but that there is a usage so general,, so welt
known and sb vniversa ly accepted, that the parties to this contract must be presumed to have used the words in the sense so
established. The Paragon,1 Ware, 322; Rogers v. .fechanics'
Ins. Co., 1 Story, 603; Robinsom'v. The United States, 13 Wall.
363; see also Barnardv. .Kellogg, 10 Wall. 383; -Kirchnerv..
enus, 12 Moore, P. C. 361; Tinsor v. _Dillaway, 4 Met.
(Mass.) 221; Porterv. Hills, 114 Mass. 106; .7ooney v. Howard Ins. Co., 138 Mass. 375; _Earris v. Tunbr.dge, 83 N. Y.
92, 100; -yon v. Culbertson, 83 ]Ill. 33, 37.
Such a usage as is ths shown to be necessary for the
appellants' purposes, is not necessarily established by the,
fact that a preponderance of the evidence favors the meaning
they contend for. Parrott v. Thacher, 9 Pick. 426; Porter
v. Hills, above cited; Winsor v. Dillaway,4 Met. (Mass.) 221;
Brown v. Brown, 8 Met. 573, 276; Daniels v. Insurance Co.,
12 Cush. 416, 429 ; Law v. Cross, I Black, 533.
The conclusion of the circuit. judge, therefore, that ".the
true meaning of the term is very doubtful" really amounts to
a finding of fact, that no such usage existed as was necessary to establish the meaning or definition asserted by .the
appellants.
If the maxim !hat the words are to be construed "fortius
contra proferentem" has any application to the case, it is
important first to determine who is "proferens."
It is said in a recent text-book, "It. is often difficult to
decide who are the proferentes with regard to special words
of a contract, but this is to be determined in each case upon
an examination of the substance and character of words, made
in the light of the whole contract and the circumstances surI S. C. 59 Am. Dec. 192.

OCTOBER TERI, _1886.
Opinion of the Court.

rounding it."

Jones on Construction of Commercial and

Trade Contracts, New York, 1886, § 230.

An examination of

the cases shows, however, that whenever the words appear to
have been selected by one of the parties for his own benefit,
and by him proposed foT the other's acceptance,- although
they may be in form a promise by the other,-yet he who
selects them is _proferens, within the meaning of the maxim,
and the construction is to be most strict against him, and
most favorable against the other. This principle has been
often applied to policies of insurance: National Bank v, Ins.
Co., 95 _U. S. 673, 679; Grace v. Am. Cent'.aZ Ins. Co., 109 U.
S. 278, 282; Afoulor v. Ai. Life Ins. Co., 111 U. S. 335, 34-1.
And in like manner to Charter Parties; Hudson v. .de, L. R.
2 Q. B. 566, 578; Burton v. English, 12 Q. B. D. 218, 220, 222;
Airey v. Merrill, 2 Curtis, 8, 11; Issakson v. Williams, 26
Fed. Rep. 642, 644. See also Sandar's Justinian, 6th ed., 332;
Bouvier, Law Dictionary, Stipuatio; Maine, Ancient Law,
London, 1870, 328, 329; Code Civil (France), Liv. III. tit. iii.
§ v. de lInterpr6tation des Conventions, art. 1162; -Revue
International de Droit Maritime, 1885-6, 44.
X-R. CHIEF

JusTIcE WAITE, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
As the libellants deemed the agreement to "take the northern passage" of sufficient importance to have a printed form
changed, so that it might be incorporated in express, words
into the charter party, and this "for the benefit of the cargo,"
which was perishable, it is evident that the words used had
some meaning which indicated clearly to the minds of the
contracting parties the direction the vessel was to take on her
way from Gibraltar to Boston. It is also evident, from the
fact that the vessel was bound to take thte northern passage,
that the parties understood there was more than one passage
which vessels were in the habit of taking in maling that,
voyage, according ,,s their bills of lading or their charter
parties required, or the circumnstances made desirable. It
implies that there were one or more other passages which
those engaged in the trade knew by other names or other

THE JOHN H. PEARSON.'
Opinion of the Court.

descriptions. What "the northern passage" as used in this
contract means, therefore, is either a question of fact or a
question of construction applicable to understood facts..
If it is, as the court below says it appears to be, a term of
art, which, taken by itself, without the aid of the testimony,
is unintelligible, then its meaning in "the art" -the trade is one of the material facts in the case on which the rights of
the pafties depend, and it should have been found and put
into the findings of fact which the Circuit Court was required
by law to make. The statement of the court, now in the
record, implies that there is in fact some particular passage
between Gibraltar and Boston, which those engaged in that
trade knoiv as "the northern passage." If there is, then that
is the passage the vessel was bound to take, and it was error
in the court to decide that its determination, according to the
preponderance of the evidence, was immaterial, for the choice
of passages was matter of obligation, not of convenience
merely.
If in point of fact there is no passage to which the name or
description of "the northern" has been given in the trade,
then the question becomes one of construction as applied to
the known facts of the business. The inquiry is, not as to
which passage would be the quickest, or even the best, or which
another contract would require of another vessel, but which is
"the northern passage" within the meaning of this contract.
The evident purpose of the libe~lants was, to keep the
vessel as far as possible in the coolest of the passages that
those engaged in the trade were accustomed to take, because
it is found as a fact in the case that a cool temperature is*
necessary to the preservation of the cargo; and that the
coolest water is north of the Gulf Stream, owing to the fact
that there is a cold current between it and the American
coast moving in an opposite direction.
Under these circumstances, if the testimony failed to show
that any particular passage had acquired in the trade the
name of "the northern," it was error to rule that the vessel
might voluntarily take any other of the known or accustorihed
passages than one which would carry it in a northerly li-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Counsel for Parties.

rection through the coolest waters and into the coolest temperature. That this was the expectation of the parties is
shown by the fact that the stipulation as to the passage was
made "for the benefit of the cargo," the preservation of
which required that it should be kept "in as cold a temperature as possible, short of the freezing point." The court
should have ascertained from the evidence what passages
there were between Gibraltar and Boston which vessels were
accustomed to take, and then determined which of them
this vessel was allowed by its contract to choose as "the
northern."
TMe decree is reversed, and the cae reman&d for fiirther
jproceeding8 in conformity with this opinion.

CARPENTER '. WASHINGTON AND GEORGETOWN
RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Submitted April 22, 1887.-Decided May 2, 1887.

The charge of the court in this case was eminently favorable to the plaintiff
below, who is plaintiff in error, and, when it is taken in connection with
the testimony, it is clear that the jury found a verdict for defendant on
the ground that the plaintiff was in fault, and that the defendant's agents
,used no unnecessary force.

THIns was an action at law against the defendant in error
for the ejection of the plaintiff in error from its cars by its
servants. Judgment for defendant. Plaintiff sued out this
writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

31r. C. C. Cole and -Mr.

. 1. Cole for plaintiff in error.

Atr.. Enoch Totten and A1f,. Walter D. Davidge for defendant in error.
/

