OCTOBER TERM,, 1886.,
Syllabus.

of the subject matter of what i sold;" and "the plaintiff,
whu sues upon that contract, has not launched his case until
he has shown that he has tendered the thing whi6h has been:
contracted for, and if he is unable to show that, he cannot
claim any damages for the nonfulfilment of the contract."
Lord Cairns, in. Bowes v. S7Und, 2 App. Cas. 455, 468; _for-'
rington v. Wright, 115 U. S. 188, 209.
The necessary conclusion is that the defendant was justified
in refusing to accept any of the'iron shipped in 1881; and
whether the notice; previously given by the defendant to the
plaintiff, that it would. not accept under the contract any iron
made aft~r December '31, 1880, might. have ben treated by
the plaintiffs as a renunciation and a breach of the contract,
need not be considered, because- the plaitiffs did not act upon
it as such. -Dingley v. Oler, 117 U. S. 490, 503.
It'conclusively appearing, upon the-facts found by the court
below, that the original plaintiffs cannot maintain their action,
it is ordered, in accordance with the precedents of -FortScott
v. Mckma?, 112 U. S. 150, and Allen v. t. Louis ank, 120
U. S. 20, that the
Judgment be reversed, and the case remanded to the Circuit
Court,with directions to enter judgment for the originad
defendant.,

HINOKLEY v. PITTSBURGH BESSEMER STEEL.
COMPANY.
ERoR ,TO THE cicurr COURT oF' Tm UITED sTATES

OR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IL.INOIS.
Argued April 5,1877.-Decided April 18,1887.

The d~fendant'agreed, in writing, to purchase from the plaintiff rails to
be rolled by the latter, "and to be drilled as may.be directed," and to
pay for them $58 per ton. He refused to give directions for drilling,
and, at his request, the plaintiff delayed rolling any of the rails until
after the time prescribed for their delivery, and then the defendant
advised the plaintiff that he should decline to take any rails under the
contract: Held,

HINCKLE.

v. PITTSBURGH STEEL CO.
Statement of Facts.

(1) The defendant was liable in damages for the breach of the contract;
(2) .
plaintiff was n6t bound to roll the rails and tender them to the
defendant;
(3) The proper rule of damages was the difference between the cost per
ton of making and delivering the rails and the $58.
It was not improper to admit evidence which was unnecessary and which
could not affect the merits of the case, or evidence from which it appears
no prejudice resulted.

This was an action at law, brbught in tho Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, by the
Pittsburgh Bessemer Steel Company, (Limited,) a Pennsylvania
corporation, against Francis E. Hinckley, to recover damages
for the breach by Hifickley of 'a written contract for the pur-ohase by him from the company of 6000 tons of steel rails.
The contract was as follows:
"Alem'andvm' of Sale.
"The Pittsburgh Bessemer Steel Company (Limited) have
sold and hereby agree to make and deliver to the order of
F. E. Hinckley, .Esq., 204: Dearborn St., Chicago, Ills., and the
said Hinckley has purchased' and agrees to pay for, six thousand -gross tons of first-quality steel rails, to weigh fifty-two
(52) pounds to the yard, and to be rolled true and smooth to
the pattern to be furnished by the said Pittsburgh Bessemer
Steel Company, (Limited,) pattern No. 5.
"Said rails are to be made of the best quality of Bessemer
steel, and to be subject to inspection as made and shipped,
and to be well straightened and free from flaws, and to be
drilled as may be directed; at least ninety per cent. shall be
in thirty (30) feet lengths, with not over ten (10) per cent. of
shorter lengths, diminishing by one foot differences, none to
be less than. twenty-four (24) feet.
"All second-quality rails or excess of shorts which may be
made, not exceeding five (5) per cent. of each month's shipments,_to be taken at the usual reduction of ten (10) per cent.
in price, and to be piled and shipped separately, (painted white
on both ends,) as may be ordered by the inspector.
"Deliveries to begin in May, 1882, inwhich month one

, 66.

+"OCTOBE. TERM; 1886..
Statement of Facts.

-

thbusand tons shall be delivered, and to' continue at the rate
of twenty-five hundred tons per month after July 1; 1-882'
until finished, 'strikes and gcci4 its beyond ordinary control
of said steel 'company, and acts 'of Pr6vidence prevefiting Qr
suspending deliveries, alone excepted,, in which case deliveries are to be delayed for a corresponding length of time
Only.
"Price to be fifty-eight dollars net, per ton of 2240 pounds
of finished steel rails, ex. ship or f. o. b. cars at Chicago, Ills.,
seller's 9ption.
"Terms of payment, cash on delivery of inspector's bertificate for each five, hundred tons as fast as delivered. If shipment is delayed without fault ;f' said steel company payment is
to be made -in cash upon dompletioh and delivery of each five
hundred tons at ChicAgo and inspector's certificate. , Rails
to .be inspected at mill as fast as .c6mpleted and ready for
shipment.
"In witness whereof, the said Hinckley has hereto set his
hand and seal, and the Pittsburgh Bessemer Steel Company,
.(Limnited,) by its duly authorized officers, hath signed and
affixed its corporate seal, the day and year aforesaid.
"It is farther agreed, that the Pittsburgh Bessemer Steel
Company (Limited) are not to be responsible for delays reslt-'
ing from failure of railroads to furnish cars, proper efforts
having been made to procure them, nor for detentions after
shipment has been made.
"It is understood that the purchaser shall have the right to.,
make one-half of the order fifty-six (56) pounds pen yard,
pattern No. 4 of said steel company, notice to be given thirty
days before the time for the delivery of the rails.
"Chicago, Ills., F1eb. 18, 1882.
"F. 1. EnomI y.

"C. H. OD=., Broker."
One copy of the contract was signed by Hinckley, and a
duplicate of it was signed by the company.
The defendant pleaded the general issue, and the case was
tried by the court on the due waiver of a jury. The court
made the following special finding of facts:

HINCKLEY v. PITTSBURGH STEEL. CO.

267'

Statement of 'Facts.
' 1. That the written agreement set out und described in the
declaration was .duly executed by the plaintiff and defendant
in said cause, as alleged in said declaration.
"2. That immediately after the making'of said contract, and
before the time to begin the execution thereof, the plaintiff
purchased the requisite amount of material from which t6
manufacture the six thousand tons of steel rails called for by
said contract, and that, biter the purchase of said supplies by
plaintiff, there was a decline in the value thereof, before the
time for the delivery of any portion of said rails, and that
lower prices for. such supplies ruled during the months of May;
June, July, and August, 1882.
"3. That it appears from the parol proof heard on said.
trial, aside from the provision in said written contrict in regard
to drilling dire6tions, that it was usual and customary for the
purchaser of steel rails to give directions as to the drilling
,thereof, and that each railroad company has its own specidl
rules for drilling, and the drilling 9f such rails is considered in
the trade as a part of the work of itanifacture, and a part of
the duty of the manufacturer in order to fully 'complete the
rails for use,
"4. That, -by letters dated Aprirl3, April- 20, April 26, and
April 28, from plaintiff's agents to defendant, and which
letters were duly received by defendant before May, 1882,
defendant was requested to furnish drilling directions for the
rails to be delivered in May under said contract, and defendant not only neglected to comply with such request and fur,nish such directions, but defendant also notified plaintiff, in
reply to such request, that he, defendant, was not then prepared
to receive the rails which were to be delivered under said contract in the month of May.
"Again, about the 15th of June, defendant informed plaintiff that he was becoming discouraged about being able to take
the rails.
"That, about June 23, plaintiff notified defendant that it
was ready to commence rolling the rails for the Juy deliveries, as well as to cover the thousand tons specified- in the
contract for delivery in May, of which plaintiff had postponed

โข268

OCTOBER TERM,' 188"6.
Statement of Facts.

delivery at defendant's request, and asked for drilling directions from thd defendant, but defendant wholly neglected to
give suchdrilling directions.
"That about the 26th of July, defendant, in substance informed plaintiff's agents that his financial arrangements for
money to pay for said rails, pursuant to said con6act, had
failed, and that he could not take said rails unless plaintiff
would sell them to him on six; and, twelve months' credit, for
which the notes of the raijoad company for which defendant
was acting would be ,given, which defendant would indorse,
and also further secure with first-mortgage bonds, as collateral,
-at fifty cents on the dollar, but, unless he could secure the rails
on such terms, he could not take them, and that plaintiff declined to accept said proposition for the purchase of said rails
on credit; and I further find, that, on the 30th of August,
1882, plaintiff notified defendant that the time. for the completion of his contract for the purchase of said rails had
expired, and requested the defendant to advise it wnether he
would accept the rails or not. To this request defendant made
no reply.
"I further find, that, while plaintiff did not expressly agree
with defendant to postpone the time for the delivery of the
rails to be made and delivered under said contract, yet plaintiff
did in fact delay the rolling and delivery of the rails to be
delivered ,inMay, and that, by reason of the repeated statements of defendant that he was not ready to give drilling
directions; not ready to use said rails, and not ready to accept
them, plaintiff did postpone rolling said rails, and in fact never
rolled any rails to be delivered on said contract, but that plaintiff was at all times during the months of May, July, and
August ready and able, in all respects, to fulfil'said contract
and make said rails, and the same would have been ready for
delivery, as called for by said contract, if defendan; had furnisied drilling directions, and' had not stated to plaintiff's'
agents that hewas not readyto furnish said drih "gdirections
and not ready to accept said rails.
I "I further find, that, on or -about the 15th day of Septem.ber,1882, defendant was -formally requeted to furnish drill-

IINCtLEY Y. PITTSBURGH' SjEL CO.

269

Statemeint- of Factg.

ing directions and to accept said rails, and that he .replied to
'such reuest that he should decline to take any rails under
said contract, and, that he had'made arrangements to purchase
rails of others at a good deal lower price.
"I therefore find, from the testimony in this case, that defendant, by requesting plaintiff to postpone the delivery of
said rails, and by notifying the plaintiff that he was not ready
to accept and pay for said rails, excused the plaintiff from the
actual manufacture of said rails and a tender thereof to defendant.
"And I further find, that defendant's statement to plaintiff,
on the 26th of July, that he could not pay cash for said rails,
as called for by the contract, and that he wished to buy them
on credit, was in fact a notice that he would not be able to
pay for said rails if rolled and tendered to him by plaintiff.
"I therefore conclude, and so find as a matter of fact, from
the evidence in the case, that said plaintiff in apt time ,re-"
quested defendant to furnish directions for the drilling bf
,said Iails, and that defendant neglected and .refused to do .so,
and that, although plaintiff was ready and able to fully perform said contract, and make and deliver said rails to defendant, as required by said.contract, defendant refused to accept
and pay for said rails.
"5. That plaintiff manufactured and sold to other persons'
4000 tons of 'steel rails, from the material] so purchased with
which to perform smid contract with defendant, for which said
rails plaintiff received $54.60 per ton, delivered at a port' on
Lake Huron, and that plaintiff made a profit of $1.60 per ton
on said 4000 tons; that, by reason of defendant's refusal to
accept said rails, the plaintiff had no employment for its mill
for a time, and was obliged to stop its mill for about three
weeks, in the month of August, 1882.
"6. That it,would have cost plaintiff $50 per ton to have
manufactured and delivered the rails called for by said contract to defendant, according to the terms of said contract;
so that plaintiff's profits, if it had not been prevented from
fulfilling said contract by the conduct of defendant, would
have been $8.00 per ton on each ton of rails called for by said
contract.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"And, because of said facts, I find that defendant was
guilty of a breach of said contract, and that plaintiff h.ath
sustained damage, by reason of such breach, in the sum of
$42,400."
On these findings, a judgment was entered for the plaintiff
for $42,400 damages, and for costs. 17 Fed. Rep. 581. To
review that judgment the defendant brought this writ of
error. After the record was fied in this court, it being discovered that there was an error in computation in entering the
judgment for 042,400, instead of $41,600, the Circuit Court
allowed the plaintiff to remit the difference, $800, and an order
was entered accordingly, as of the date of the judgment.
Mr. Thomas S. .eClelland for plaintiff in error.
1. The giving of drilling directions, as an option reserved to
the plaintiff in error, was not a condition precedent to a performance of the contract on the part of the defendant in
error; and its failure to manufacture and deliver, the goods
provided for by the contract was a breach which barred it
from maintaining this action. Palm v. Ohio & .Eissiippi
Railroad,18 Ill. 217; CNristian County v. Overholt, i ll. 223.
2. If there is a cause of action against plaintiff in error,
the measure of damages should be the difference between the
contract price and the market price at the time and place of
delivery, and not the difference between the contract price and
the cost of manufacturing and delivering the goods, as found
by the lower court. Pollen v. Le Roy, 30 X. Y. 549; .Masterton v. Brooklyn, T Hill, 61;' Boorman,v. Tash, 9 B. & C.
145; Story v. NAew York & Harlem Ralroad, 6 lN. Y. 85;
.Malea v. Dunn, 4 Bing. '722; Leigh v. Paterson,8 Taunt.
540; Gai&%ford v. Carroll, 2 B. & C. 624. The contract was
one and indivisible notwithstanding the goods were to have
been delivered by instalmeAts, and if any breach of the contract occurred, occasioned by the nonfeasance of Hinckley, it
was when he failed to furnish drilling directions for the M ay
delivery of 1000 tons, and the measure of damages should
1S. C. 42 Am. Dec. 38.

HINCKLEY -6. PITTSBURGa STEEL CO.

271

Argument forPlaintiff in Errdr.

have been fixed at the difference between the market' and contract prices in that month. Lasterton v. The XaEyor, &c.' 7
Hill, 71.1 In an action by a vendee against a vendor, for a
breach in not delivering the article sold, the measure of damages is the market price at the time of the breach. .arsh, v.
.McPwrson,105 U. S. 709; Hopkins v. Lee, 6 Wheat. 109;
1D"uglass v. .2JfAllister, 3 Oranch. 298; S7epherd v. Hampton,
3 Wheat. 200; -31asteron. v. 2U3ayor,' and cases cited. In an,
action against a vendee of real estate for a breach of,contract
to take and pay for land, the measure of damage is the difference between the contract price and the price for which the
land could have been sold at the time of the breach. Old
Colony R i'roadv.' Evans, 6 Gray, 25 ; 2 Griqwold v. Sabin, 51,
N. H. 16'[. The defendant in error was bound to exercise due
diligence to protect itself, and thereby inflict the least possible damages on the plaintiff in error, even if the latter was
guilty of a breach of his contract. It was the duty of the.
former to have manufactured the 'raw material, which it
claimed to have purch'ased' for the rails in question, into
'standard 52 and 56-pound rails, and tender, them at Ohicago, the place of delivery, and, if not accepted, to have
them sold at the current market p'ice, which seems to have
been about $55 per tqn, and by so doing reduce Hinckley's
,liability to $3 per ton at the most. Shannon v. Comstocke, 21
Wend. 4 56i; Beckceher"v.
re7rea, 24: Wend. 304, and cases
cited; Hamilton v. McPherson,28 N. Y. 72, and cases cited.
3. The finding and judgment in this case being $800 in
excess of the actual amount due, on the theory and basis of
cdmputation adopted by the court below, the case should be
reversed and remanded, for the Teason that the judgment"
being an entirety, and not made up of distinct and separate
items, cannot be affirmed in part and reversed in part, but
should be wholly reversed, with directions, providing this
court shall not find other error in the record.
4. Where a witness testifies regarding written entries in a,
book, or a writing, and he produces extracts of the same, such
S. C. 42 Am. Dec. 38.
'S. C. 34 Am. Dec. 262.

2 S. C. 66 Am. Dec. 394.

4 S. C. 84 Am. Dec. 330.

,OCTOBER_

TERM, 1886.

Opinion of the Court.

extracts cannot ce admitted in evidence, nor can the witness use
the extracts for the purpose of refreshing his memory. 'Doe
v. Perkins,3 T. R. 749; XeMrrill v. Ithaca &9Oswego Ratlway,
16 Wend. 586,1 and cases cited. And this court will look into
the record to ascertain if such error was committed. Afartinton v. Fairbanks,112 IT. S. 670, and cases cited.
3'r.John IV.Jewett for defendant in error.
M . JusTIoE BLATCHFORD, after stating the case as above

reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
On the special findings, the only question open for review
is, whether the facts found are sufficient to support the judgment. There can be no question, that, on those facts, the
defendant is liable in damages for a breach of the contract.
It is provided in the contract, that the rails are "to be drilled
as may be directed." The Circuit Court finds that it appears
from the proof, aside from the provision in the written contract in regard to drilling directions, "that it was usual and
customary for the purchaser of steel rails to give directions as
to the drilling thereof;" that each railroad has its own special
rules for drilling; that the drilling of the rails is considered.
in the trade as a part of the work of manufacture, and a part
of the duty of the manufacturer, in order to fully complete
the rails for use; that, by four letters written in April, 1882,
by the agents of the plaintiff to the defendant, and which letters were duly received by the defendant before May, 1882, he
was requested to furnish drilling directions for the 1000 tons
of rails to be delivered in May, under the contract; that he
neglected to comply with that request, and also notified the
plaintiff that he was not then prepared to receive the rails
which, by the contract, were to be delivered in May; that, in
June, the plaintiff again asked for drilling directions from the
defendant, in respect both to the 1000 tons, and to the 2500
tohs to be delivered in July, but the defendant neglected to
give such drilling'directions; and that, in the latter part of
- July, he notified theplaintiff, in substance, that he would not
1 S. C.30 Am. Dec. 130.

HINCKLEY v. PITTSBURGH STEEl CO.

273

Opinion of the Court.

perform the contract. The Circuit Court further finds, that,
by reason of the repeated statements of the defendant that he
was not ready to give drilling directions, not ready to use the
rails, and not ready to accept them, the plaintiff postponed
the rolling of them, and never rolled any rails to be delivered
on the contract, but was at all times during May, July and
August, 1882, ready and able to fulfil the contract and make
the rails, and the same would have been ready for delivery as
called for by the contract, if the defendant had furnished
drilling directions, and had not stated to the agents of the
plaintiff' that he was not ready to furnish the drilling directions, and not ready to accept the rails; and that, on or about
the 15th of September, 1882, he was formally requested to
furnish drilling directions and to accept the rails, and replied
to such request that he should decline to take any rails under
the contract, and had made arrangeients to purchase rails of
others at a; lower price. The Circuit Court also finds, that the
defendant, by requesting the plaintif to postpone the delivery
of the rails, and by notifying the plaintiff that he was not
ready to accept and pay for them, excused the plaintiff from,
actually manufacturing them and 'tendering them to the defendant. This conclusion is entirely warranted by the facts
found, and, on those facts, the defendant must be held liable.
in damages. The only other question open on the findings, is:
as to the proper rule of damages.
The Circuit Court finds, that it would have cost the plaintiff
$50 per ton to have manufactured and delivered the rails
called for by the contract, according to its terms; thatithe
profits of the plaintiff, if the conduct of the defendant had
not prevented it from fulfilling the contract, would have been.
$8 per ton on each of the 6000 tons, being $48,000; and. that
the plaintiff manufactured and sold to other persons 4000
tons of rails from the materials purchased by-it with which to,
perform the contract with the defendant, and received forsuch rails $54.60 per'ton, and made a profit of $1.60 per ton
on the 4000 tons, being a profit, in all, of $6400. Deducting
this $6400 from the $48,000, leaves $41,600, for which amount
the judgment was finally entered.
VOL. CXI-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant contends that the plaintiff should have manufactured the rails and tendered them to the defendant, and,
upon his refusal to accept and pay for them, should have sold
them in the market at Chicago, and held the defendant
responsible for the difference between what they would have
brought on such sale and the contract price. But we think no
such rule is applicable to this case. This was a. contract for
the manufacture of an article, and not for the sale of an existing article. By reason of the facts found as to the conduct
and action of the defendant, the plaintiff was excused from
actually manufacturing the rails, and the rule of damages
applicable to the case of the refusal of a purchaser to take an
existing article, is not applicable to a case like the present.
The proposition, that, after the defendant had, for his own
purposes, induced the plaintiff to delay the execution of the
contract until after the 31st of August, 1882, and had thereafter refused to take any rails under the contract, the plaintiff
should still have gone on and made the 6000 tons of rails and
sold them in the market foi the defendant's account, in order
to determine the amount of its recovery against the defendant,
can find no countenance from a court of justice.
It is found by the Circuit Court, that, immediately after the
making of the contract and before the time to begin its execution, the plaintiff purchased the requisite amount of material
from which to manufacture the 6000 tons of rails; that, after
the purchase of such supplies, there was a decline in their
value before the time arrived for the delivery of any part of
the rails; and that lower prices for such supplies ruled during
May, June, July and August, 1882. It is also to be inferred,
sold the
by
from the price at which the 4000 tons of rails werebelow
the plaintiff, that the market price of rails declined
price named in the contract; and the reason assigned by the
defendant, in September, 1882, for not taking any rails under
the contract, was, that he had made arrangements to purchase
rails of others at a lower price. Under these circumstances,
the defendant is estopped from insisting that the plaintiff
should have undertaken the risk and expense of actually making and selling the rails. These considerations also show that

HINCKLEY v. PITTSBURGH STEEL CO.
Opinion of the Court.'

the rule of damages adopted by the Circuit Court was the
proper one. It was in accordance with the rule laid down by
this court in P7iiad&,phia, Wilmington & Baltimore Railroad
Co. v. Howard, 13 How. 307. In that case a contractor for
the building of a railroad sued the company for its breach.
On the question of damages this court said, p. 344: "It must
be admitted that actual damages were all that could lawfully
be given in an action of covenant, even if the company had
been guilty of fraud. But'it by no means follows that profits
are not to be allowed, understanding, as we must, the term
'profits,' in this instruction, as meaning the gain which the
plaintiff would have made if he had been permitted to complete his contract. Actual damages clearly include the direct
and actual loss which the plaintiff sustains propter T'ern ipsam
non,kabtam. And in case of a contract like this, that loss is,
among other things, the difference between the cost of doing
the work and the price to be paid for it. This difference is
the inducement and real coiisideration which causes the contractor to enter into the contract. For this he expends histime, exerts his skill, uses his capital, and assumes the risks
which attend the enterprise. And to deprive him of it, when
the party has broken the contract and unlawfully put an end
to the work, would be unjust. There is no ruleof law which
requires us to inflict this injustice. Wherever profits are
spoken of as not a subject of damages it will be found that
something contingent upon future bargains, or speculations, or
states of the market, are referred to, and not the difference between the agreed price of something contracted for and its ascertainable value or cost. See -fasterton, v. .Mayor qf Brooklyn,
7 H4 61,1 and cases there referred to. We hold it to be a clear
rule.that the gain or profit of which the contra6tor was deprived
by the refusal of the company to allow him to proceed with and
complete the work, was a proper subject of damages."
In United States v. Speed, 8 Wall. 77, where the defendant
agreed to pack a specified number of hogs for the plaintiff, and
made all his preparations to do so, and was ready to do so, but
the defendant refused to furnish the hogs to be packed, this
1 S. C. 42 Am. Dec. 38.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

court, citing with-approval .lasteiton v. Mayor of Brooklyn,'
held that the.measure of damages was the difference between
the cost of doing the work and the price agreed to be paid for
it, "making reasonable deduction for the less time engaged,
and for release from the care, trouble, risk, and responsibility
attending a full execution of the contract."
These views were again approved by this court in United
States v. Behan, 110 U. S. 338.
In the present case, the ability of the plaintiff to fulfil the
contract at all times is found as a fact by the Circuit Court, as
also the fact, that, by reason of the defendant's refusal to
accept the rails, the plaintiff was obliged to stop its mill for
about three weeks, in August, 1882. The defendant received
the benefit of all the mitigation of damages which, upon the
facts found, he was entitled to claim, and the benefit of all the
profits made by the plaintiff which could properly be regarded
as a substitute for the profits it would have received had its
contract with the defendant been carried out.
The defendant objects that, within the statement of the rule
in' United States v. 8peed, there was no deduction made in this
case for the time saved, and the care, trouble, risk, and responsibility avoided by the plaintiff by not fully executing the contract; but there are no findings of fact which raise any such
question. The finding is, that it would have cost the plaintiff
850 er ton to have manufactured and delivered the rails called
for by the contract, according to its terms. Under this finding,
it must be held that every proper element of cost entered into
the $50; and it was for the defendant to have requested findings which would authorize an increase of that sum as cost.
There is a bill of exceptions in the case, on which two questions are raised by the defendant as to the admission of testimony. The contract between the parties was negotiated by
C. It. Odell, :who signed it as broker, between whom and the
defendant the correspondence thereafter, down to and including the 1st of Mfay, 1882, was carried on, Odell acting for,the
plaintiff. He made the contract under special instructions, his
authority being limited to that of a sales agent. On his exam' S. C. 42 Am. Dec. 38.

HINCKLEY v. PITTSBURGH STEEL CO.

277

Opinion of the Court.

ination as a witness at the trial, he testified that all- of his
communications with the plaintiff in regard to the business
with the defendant were in writing or by telegram. He also
testified, without objection, that he kept the plaintiff fully advised of his correspondence with the defendant concerning the
rails. H. P. Smith, the business manager of the plaintiff, was
then called as a witness for the plaintiff, and was asked if the
plaintiff was advised of the correspondence between Odell and
the defendant, which had been read in evidence, and if Odells
actions were approved by the witness as manager of the plaintiff. To this the defendant objected, on the ground that the
communications between Odell ind the plaintiff consisted of
letters and telegrams, which were the only competent evidence
of the contents thereof. The court overruled the objection,
and the witness stated that the company wa advised of the
correspondence and actions of Odell, and fully approved and
ratified the same. The defendant excepted to the decision
admitting the evidence. We see no objection to the admission
of this evidence, independently of the fact that Odell had,
without objection, testified, to substantially the same thing.
The defendant, in his correspondence with Odell, all of which
*is set forth in the bill of exceptions, treated Odell as representifig the plaintiff, and cannot now be heard to question-his authority to do so, or to demand further evidence of such an
authority, or of the adoption by, the plaintiff of what Odell
was doing, saying, and asking -on behalf of the plaintiff. The
question asked of Smith, as to -whether he, as manager of the
plaintiff, approved of Odell's actions, and the answer he made,,
were, therefore, unnecessary, and could not affect the merits of
the case.
Smith was further asked to state in detail the elements of
the cost of rolling the rails in question. He produced a memorandum showing items taken from the .plaintiff's books,
which, added together, exhibited the cost, in August, 1882, of
manufacturing one ton of such rails as those described in the
contract; and, on being asked by the plaintiff's attorney to
testify to those items, the court, under the defendant's objectiQn, allowed him to read the items from the memorandum.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

He further testified, under an objection and exception by the
defendant, that the actual cost to the plaintiff of making and
delivering the rails in Chicago would have, been $48.25 ; that
he stated the elements of such cost from a memorandum prepared by himself, the elements being -taken from the books of
the plaintiff; that he knew the purchase price of all material
which went into the manufaqture, because he purchased all of
it himself ; that the statement was prepared by him from his
personil knowledge of the cost; that he called off the items
from a pencil memorandum to the bookkeeper, who wrote
them down; that he (the witness) knew the items to be correctly stated; and that the information as to the items was
made up from records running through a series of four or five
months, and representing an average as to the cost per ton.
The defendant contends that this evidence was inadmissible,
in the absence of an opportunity for him to examine the
plaintiff's books, with a view to a cross-examination of the
witness as to the mode of computation adopted by him, the
memorandum being, as contended, the result of the conclusions of the witness from the examination of a large number
of entries in the books of the plaintiff.
It is a sufficient answer to this objection, that the cost ofthe rails was not taken by the court at the sum of $48.25, the
sum fixed by Smith,.but the bill of dxceptions shows that the
cost was taken at $50 a ton, from the testimony of Richard C.
Hannah, another witness; so that, even if the testimony was
erroneously admitted, (which it is not necessary to decide,) the
defendant suffered no prejudice from its admission.
The judgrent of the Circuit Court is aflrmed.

UNITED STATES v. LE BRIS.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION -IN OPINION FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Submitted April 7, 1887.-Decided April 18, 1887.

The reservation of the Red Lake and Pembina Indians, in Polk County,
Minnesota, is Indian country, within the meaning of ยง 2139 Rev. Stat.

