PARKINSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

PARKINSON v. UITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION OF OPINION FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THIE UNITED STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEVADA.
Submitted April 15,1887.-Decided April 18, 1887.

Offenders against the provisions of §§ 5511 and 5512 Rev. Stat.must be prosecuted by indictment and not by information, as the nature of the punishment makes the crime "infamous" within the meaning of the Fifth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
No appearance for plaintiff.
-Y1r. Assistant Attorney General X3laury for defendant.
YR. CHIEF JUSTIcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case comes here on a certificate by the judges of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Nevada,
that they were opposed in opinion on certain questions which
arose at the hearing of a writ of error for the review of the
rulings.of the District Court of the district at the trial of
Richard 'R. Parkinson, on an information by the district attoiney, for unlawfully, fraudulently, and feloniously voting at
an election for a representative in Congress from Nevada,
and for unlawfully, fraudulently, and feloniously registering
his name as an elector qualified to vote at such election. The
prosecution was under §§ 5511 and 5512 of the Revised Statutes, which made the offences charged punishable by a fine of
not more than five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment not
more than three years, or both. As the imprisonn ,L may be
"for a period longer than one year," the coin't can order that
it shall be in the -penitentiary. Rev. Stat. § 5541. This
makes the crime infamous, within the meaning of the Fifth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, and the
prosecution should have been by indictment and not by infor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

mation. It was so decided by this court, after this case was
certified up by the Circuit Court, in Ex jprte WIson, 114
U. S. 417, and Mackin v. United States, 117 U. S. 348.

As

the judgment of the District Court must be reversed for this
cause, the questions certified have become immaterial, and
their determination unnecessary in the final disposition of the
case. We, therefore, remand the case without answering
Reversed.

them.

CHURCH v. KELSEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREIE COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Submitted March 28, 1887.-Decided April 18, 1887.

The Constitution of the United States does not jrevent a state from giving
to its courts of equity power to hear and determine a suit .brought by
the holder of an equitable interest in land to establish his rights agaiust
the holder of the legal title.
A state constitution is not a contract within the meaning of that clause of
the Constitution of the United States which prohibits the States from
passing laws impairing the obligation of contracts

Tnis was a motion to dismiss, to which was united a motion
to affirm. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
lb'. Cakpin Brown for the motions.
.21. A. ieketts opposing.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

WsATE delivered the opinion of the court.

If we understand correctly the questions on which, it is
claimed, our jurisdiction in this case rests, they are: 1. That
the provision in § 1, Art. XIV of the Amendments to the
Constitution of the United States, that a state shall not "deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law," prevents the State of Pennsylvania from giving
jurisdiction to a court of equity of a suit brought by the

