OCTOBER .TERM, 1886.
Counsel for Parties.

clause of the Constitution of the United States which prohibits the states from passing laws impairing the obligation of
contracts. It .is the fundamental law adopted by the people
for their government in a State of the United States, and as
such it may be construed and carried -into effect by the courts
of the State, without review by this court, except -in cases
where what is done comes, or is supposed to come, in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States. Such is not the
claim here,' the only question under this branch of the case
being whether the statute giving jurisdiction to the court of
equity in the suit under. which the defendants in error claim
title is in violation of the constitution of the state.
T) e motion to dismiss is overruled,, and that to affim
granted.

LOUISIANA BANK e. WHITNEY.
BOARD OF LIQUIDATION OF NEW ORLEANS v.
SAME.
ERROR TO AND APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted April 11, 1887.-Decided April 18,1887.

An order of court directing the payment into the registry of the court of a
garnishee fund, claimed by a third party, pending the determination of
the right to it, is not a final judgment or decree within the meaning of
that term as used in the acts of Congress giving this court jurisdiction on
appeals and writs of error.

Tis was a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mr. Twmas J Semmes and
motion.

The

r. Ayfred Goldthwaite for the

X... Henry C. Miller opposing.

LOUISIANA BANK v. WHITNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

Mnm.'CmF JusTicE WA.rrn delivered the opinion of thc court.
This is a .pioceeding begun May 22, 1883, by Mrs. Myra
Clark Gaines, then in life, to subject a certain sum of $40,000
on deposit in the Louisiana National Bank to the payment of
a. judgment in her favor against the City of New Orleans.
There is no dispute about the fact that the money in question
was on deposit when the proceeding was begun and the bank
served with process, but the Board of Liquidation bf the City
Debt has made claim to 'itas part of the 'fund appropriated
by Act No. 133 of 1880 to the payment and liquidation of the
bonded debt of the city., Pendifig the determination of the
questions involved, the court, March 15, 1886, ordered the
money paid into the registry of the court. From this order
the bank has appealed, and also sued out a writ of error, and
the Board of Liquidation has likewise appealed. The representatives of Ms. Gaines, who were made parties to the proceeding after her death, now move-to dismiss both the writ of
error and the appeals, because the order to be brought .under
review is not a final judgment or decree within the meaning
of that term as used in the acts of Congress giving-this court
jurisdiction on appeals and writs of error.
W6 have no hesitation in granting the motion. The court
has not adjudicated the rights of the parties concerned. It
has only ordered the fund into the registry of the court for
preservation during the pendency of the litigation -as to its
ownership. Such an order it has always been held is interlocutory only and not a final decree. Forgay v. Conrad, 6
ow.201; Grant v. Pwumni I. Co., 106 U. S. 431. If in the
end it shall be found that the fund belongs to the Board of
Liquidation, it can be paid from the registry accordingly, notwithstanding the order that has been made. The money
when paid into the registry will be in the hands of the court
for the benefit of whomsoever it shall in the end be found to
belong to.
Both the appeals and the writ of error are dismissed.

