ALBANY AND RENSSELAER CO. v. LUNDBERG. 451
Opinion of the Court.

ALBANY AND RENSSELAER. COMPANY. v. LUNDBERG.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORE.

FOR THE

Argued April 1, 1887. -Decided April 25,1887.

A written contract, made in this country, by which "I, Gustaf Lundberg,
agent for N. M. H6glund's Sons & Co. of Stockholm, agree to sell, and
we, Albany and'Rengselaer Iron and Steel Co., Troy, N. Y., agree to buy;,
certain Swedish pig iron, which contains no other mention of the Swedish firm, and is signed by Lundberg with his own name merely, as well as
by the purchaser, will sustain an action by Lundberg in a court of the
United States within the state of New York, by virtue of ยง 449 of the
New York Code of Civil Procedure and ยง 914 of the Revised Statutes
of the'United States, if not at .ommon law.
Upon the question whether a warranty, in a written contract of sale of
Swedish pig iron, of a particular brand, that the iron shall contain no
more than a specified p~oportion of phosphorus, has been complied
with, evidence of the proportion of phosphorus in pig iron made in
previous years at the same furnace out of ore from the same mine is
irrelevant and incompetent.

Tins was an action at law on a contract. Verdict for the
plaintiff, and judgment on the verdict. The defendant sued
out this writ of error. The case is stated in- the opinion of
the court.
Xr. Edwin Counti-yman for plaintiff in error.
X.. Everett P. TJhekr for defendant in error.
MR. TUsTicE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought by Gustaf Lundberg, an alien and
a subject of the Kingdom of Sweden and Norway, residing at
Boston in the State of Massachusetts, against the Albany and
Rensselaer Iron and Steel Company, a corporation of the
State of New York, upon two contracts for the sale and purchase of Swedish pig iron, the first of which was as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"N. M. H6GLUND'S SoNs,& Co., STocKnoLm;
"GusTAF LUNDBERG, SuccESSOR TO NiLs KfiTADER:
"38 Kilby Street, Boston, February 10, 1880.
"I, Gustaf Lundberg, agent f~r N. f. H6,glund's Sons &
Co. of Stockholm, agree to sell, and we, Albany and Rensselaer Iron and Steel Co., Troy, N. Y., agree to buy the following Swedish charcoal grey pig iron, viz: 500 tons of brand
NBGPH, at a price of forty-eight ($48) dollars, American
gold, per ton of 2240 lbs., delivered on wharf at New York,
duty paid; said iron to be in accordance with an analysis furnished in Gustaf Lundberg's letter of 6th. February. Payment in gold in Boston or New York funds 'ithin 30 days
froin date of ship's entry at custom-house. Shipment from
Sweden during the season, say May next, or sooner, if possible. The above quantity hereby contracted for to be subject
to such reduction as may be necessitated by natural obstacles
and unavoidable accidents. The seller not accountable for
accidents or delays at sea. Signed in duplicate.
"Accepted, GusTAF LUNDBERG.
"Accepted, AILBANY & RENsFS

LA

. IRON & STEEL CO."

The other contract differed only in being for the sale and
.purchase of "300 tons of brands SBVE and NBBBK."
. The analysis referred to in both contracts showed, in the
first brand .03, and in the two other brands .024, of one per
cent of phosphorus.
The above amount of iron was made in Sweden, that of the
first brand at the Pershytte furnace of the Ramshyttan Iron
Works, out of ore from the Pershytte mines, and that of the
two other brands at the Svana Iron Works; was bought and
shipped from Stockholm by N. K. Miglund's Sons & Co. in
May, 1880; arrived at New York, in June, 1880, and was
thence taken to the defendant's works at Troy. An analysis
there made by the defendant's chemist showed in the three
brands resp3ctively .0-7, .042 and .049, of one per cent of
phosphorus. The defendant therefore -refused to take the
iron, and returned it to the plaintiff, who afterwards sold it
for less than the contract price, brought this action to recover

ALBANY AND RENSSELAER CO. v. LUNDBERG. 453
Opinion of the Court.

the difference, and obtained a verdict and judgment for upwards of $15,000. The defendant sued out tbis writ of error.
The first question presented by the bill of exceptions is,
whether this action can be maintained in the name of Lundberg, or should have been brought in the name of his principals, N. M. HRglund's Sons & Co.
The paper upon which each of the contracts in suit is written has at its head, besides the name of that firm, the name of,
"Gustaf Lundberg, successor to lNils Ifitander," followed by
the street and nitmber of his office in Boston. The contract
itself begins with a promise-by him in the first person singular, "I, Gustaf Lundberg, agent for N. M. Ho-glund's Sons &
Co. of Stockholm, agree to sell;" the description added to his
name in this clause is the only mention of or reference to that
firm inthe cofitract; hilspromise is not expressed to be .made
by them as their agent, or in their behalf; and the agreement
is signed by him with his owhi name hlerely.
There are'strong authorities for holding that a contract in
such foim as this is the personal contract of the agent, upon
which he may-sue, as well as be sued, in his own name, at,
common law.. -ennedy v.. Gouvei, 3 D. & R. 503; Parker
v. Winlow, 7 E. & B. 942; .Dutton v. Marsh, L. R. 6 Q. B.
361; Buff & n v. Chadwick, 8 Mass. 103; Packard v. ."ye, 2
Met. 47. In Gadd v . Houghton, 1 Ex. D. 357, the contract
which was held not to bind the agent personally was expressed
to be made "on account of the principals;" and in Oelrio7 v.
Ford,23 How. 49, in which the contract, whih was held to
bind the principal, more nearly resembled that before us than
in any other case in this court, the important element of a
signature of the agent's name, without addition, was wanting.
But it is unnecessary to express a definitive opinion upon
the question in whose name, independently of any statute regulating the subject, this action should have been brought.
The Code of Civil Procedure of the State of New York
contains the following provision:
"Sec. 449. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of
the real party in interest, except that an executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly

OCTQBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

authorized by statute, may sue without joining with him the
person for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A person
with whom, or in whose name, a contract is" made for the
benefit of another, is a trustee of an express trust, within the
meaning of this section."
Under this provision, the Court of Appeals of that state has
held. that an agent of a corporation, to whom, "as executive
agent of the company," a' promise is made to pay money, is
"a person with whom, or in whbse name, a contract is made
for the benefit of another," and may therefore sue in his own
name on the promise. Considerantv. Brisbane, 22 N. Y. 389.
The rule thus established is applicable to actions at law in the
courts of the United States held within the State of New
.York. - Rev. Stat. ยง 914; Sawin v. Aenny, 93 U. S. 289;
Weed lqewing fachine Co. v.- WsN, 3 Dillon, 261; Uniited
,States v. Iracy, 8 Benedict, 1.
The case then stands thus: If the agreement to sell is an
agreement made by Lundberg personally, and not in his capacity of agent of the Swedish firm, the price is likewisg
payable to him personally, and the action on the contract must
be brought in his'name, even at common law. If, on the other
hand, the agreement must be considered as made by Lundberg, not in his individual capacity, but only as agent and in
behalf of the Swedish firm, and for their benefit, then the
price is payable to him as their agent, and for their benefit, in
the same sense in which an exprss promise to pay money to
him as the agent of that firm would be a promise to pay him
for their benefit, and therefore, by the law of New ,York,
which governs this case, an action may be- brought in his
name. In either view, this action is rightly brought.
The clausej in each of the contracts sued on, "said iron to
bein accordance with an analysis furnished in Gustaf Lundberg's letter of 6th February," is doubtless a warranty that
the iron shall not contain a greater proportion of phosphorus
than is specified in that analysis. The question of fact most
contested at the trial was whether the iron tendered by the
plaintiff to the defendant fulfilled this warranty.
There was evidence tending to show that any excess of

ALBA:NY AND RENSSELAER CO. v. LUNDBERG. 455
Opinion of the Court.

phosphor.us in pig iron would affect the quality of wrought
iron or steel made from it, rendering it more brittle, and could
be detected by bending the rods after they had been made;
and the court, at the request of the defendant, and with the
consent of the plaintiff, instructed the jury as follows : "If the
jury find that either lot of iron differed as much as one onehundredth of one per cent in excess of the limit of phosphorus
stated in the analysis referred to in the contract, that constituted a breach of the warranty and entitled the defendant to
refuse to receiv6 the iron."
Each party called as witneoes many experts, who had made
analyses of the iron in question since its arrival, some of whom
testified that the amount of phosphorus in each brand was no
greater than in the analysis referred to, and others testified
that it 'was more than tWo hundredths of one per cent greater,
or nearly twice as much.
The plaintiff also introduced several depositions taken in
Sweden, so much of which as is naterial to be stated was as

follows:
0. Anderson, the manager and. a part-owner of the Ramshyttan Iron Works for the last seventeen years, testified
that his experience was in the practical part only of the iron
manufacture; that he knew the quality, and the percentage
of phosphorus, of the ir6n sold to N. M. H6glund's Sons &
Co. in. 1880, only from an analysis made by lBernhard Fernguist of pig iron from the same furnace in 1818; that no
special analysis was made of the iron sold to the HVghnds,
and "no new analysis was made, because no change in the
ore was observed;" that other iron-was made in the same
furnace in 1880, "but.,al l of exactly the same quality;" and
further testified: "In the process of manufacture no special
tests were made on this pig iron, but I know that this iron is
used in the manufacture of Siemens & Martin's steel and iron,
and there found to be good."
Fernguist, a professor of chemistry at Orebro, who had
made analyses of irons and ores for twenty years, testified to
the analysis made by him of pig iron from the Pershytte furnace in 1878,.which showed it to contain .028 of one per cent

of phosphorus.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Harold Dillner, "an officer in the metallurgic department
in the Board of Iron Masters," who in 1880 and for some
years before had assisted the owners and manager of the
Ramshyttan Iron Works "as technical assistant at Pershytte
furnace," being asked his means of knowledge in regard to
the percentage of phosphorus in the parcels of iron sold to the
Hglunds, and whether he knew of these parcels, or any of
them, having been put to any practical test, testified: "We
have trustworthy analyses of the ores from Pershytte mines
and of pig iron from Pershytte furnace, which verify the
always excellent quality of the ore and the pig iron manufactured of it." "It is generally known that the iron is of excellent quality, and I made no special tests."
A. E. Cassel, manager of the Svana Iron Works in 1879 and
1880, having testified, as to the iron from those works sold to
the HEglunds in 1880, that the inspection of its manufacture at
the furnaces was conducted "in the same manner as during
the preceding years, with -the greatest care and attention,"
and that his means of knowledge as to the percentage of
phosphorus in this iron were derived from previous analysis of
iron.that they manufactured, further testified: "In the pig
iron w3 made, the percentage of phosphorus is about .022 per
cent, and of sulphur, 0.22; and I think that the pig iron in
question contained about these quantities." "Complete journal
is kept of how much of each kind of ore is used for each day.
The quality of the ores has not changed materially during the
last five .years,"
The admission of this testimony in the depositions was
duly excepted to, and we are of opinion that it was incompetent. -Much of it, and especially Ailderson's remark that
this iron was found to be.good in the manufacture of steel
and iron by'Siemens & Martin, was mere hearsay. All the
statements of the deponents as to the proportion of phogphorus
in the-iron in question were based on analyses by other persons of pig iron made in previous years, none of which were
produced, or their contents proved, with the single exception
of Fernguist's analysis of iron from the Pershytte furnace two
years before. It is not shown, and cannot be presumed, that

BOYNTON v. BALL.
Syllabus.

a difference of one or two hundredths of one per cent in the
amount of phosphorus in pig iron could be detected by observation of the ore, or by inspection of the manufacture of thepig iron. Under these circumstances, evidence of the amount
of phosphorus in iron made in previous years was wholly
irrelevant to the question of the amount of phosphorus in iron
made in 1880; and the general expressions of opinion as to

the excellence of the pig iron and the care taken in its manufacture did not render that evidence competent, but rather
tended to divet the attention of the jury from the real issue,
which was whether the particular iron tendered by the plaintiff
to the defendant conformed to the express warranty in the
contract between them.
The case differs from that of Ames v. Quimby, 106 'U. S.
342, where, in an action to recover the price of shovel-handles
sold to the defendant, evidence of the good quality of other
like handles sold by the plaintiff at -the same time was admitted, accompanied by direct evidence that the' latter were
of the same kind and-quality as the former.
This testimony being irrelevant and incompetent, and manifestly tending to prejudice the defendants with the jury, its
admission requires the verdict to be set aside; and it becomes
unnecessary to consider the rulings upon other evidence and
upon the question of damages.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court,
with directions to set aside the verdict and to order a new
trial.

BOY-NTON t'. BALL.
iRROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLMOIS.
Argued April 4, 5, 1887.-Decided April 25, 1887.

A discharge in bankruptcy may be set up in a state court to stay the issue
of execution on a judgment recovered against the bankrupt after the
commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy and before the discharge; although the defendant did not before the judgment ask for a
stay of proceedings under Rev, Stat. ยง 5106.

