OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CLEVELATD v.
SHEDD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTE1I'T DISTRICT OF PENISYLVANIA.
Submitted January 24, 1887.-Decided March 28, 1887.

In two suits for the foreclosure of two mortgages of an insolvent railway,
which had, by amendments and crossbills, become practically consolidated, the two sets of trustees, acting in harmony and in good faith, and
with the approbation of the holders of a majority of the bonds issued
under each mortgage (but against the wishes and objections of persons
holding a minority of one of the issues as collateral, and contesting the
priority of lien as to some of the property and the legality of some of
the issues of bonds), procured the 'entry of a decree which ordered a
speedy sale of all the property covered by either or both mortgages, as
being for the best interest of all concerned, but left the conflicting claims
as to the priority of lien and the amount of bonds issued to be settled by a
subsequent decree or decrees. Held, that the courf below had power to
make this decree; that it was a final decree from which an appeal could
be taken to this court; and that it was right.

THIS was a motion to dismiss, united with a motion to
affirm. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
_ir. _Franeis 1?awle, Xlk. -D. T. IVatson and .Xr. George T.
Bi&pham for the motion.
jl&. John- Dazell and -Mr. R. B. Xbrray opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.

The facts on which these motions rest are as follows: The
Shenango and Allegheny Valley Railroad Company is a coiporation organized under a charter granted by the .state of
Pennsylvania to build and operate a railroad from a point of
intersection or junction with the Erie and Pittsburgh Railroad,
in the township of West Salem, in the county of Mercer, to
Bear creek, in the county of Butler. In March, 1869, the
directors of the company resolved to issue bonds to the

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. SHEDD.

'75

Opinion of the Court.

amount of S1,000,000, and secure. them bya mortgage or deed
of trust to Henry IRawle, trustee, on. that portion of its road
"constructed and to be constructed -oetWeen the western terminus thereof at its junction with the Erie. and Pittsburgh
Railroad in West Salem township, Mercer county; and a point
in Butler.county forty miles southeastwardly from said western
terminus, and to be denominated a first mortgage." Under this
'authority a mortgage or trust deed was actually executed, to
Rawle, as trustee, not only on this forty miles f road, with its
rolling-stock ald appurtenances, but also upon " any lateral or
branch roads, with their appurtenances, that may hereafter be
constructed by or come into possession of the company along
the line of the afore mentioned forty miles of main line or connected therewith; all of which things are hereby declared to
be appurtenances and fixtures of the said railroad, and also all
franchises connected with or relating to the said railroad, or
the construction, maintenance, or use -thereof, now held or
hereafter acquired by the said party of the first part [the
company], and all- corporate and other franchises which are
now or may be hereafter possessed or exercised by the" company, This mortgage was duly recorded, and all the bonds
authorized were.issued thereunder.
By an act of. the legislature of Pennsylvania, approved
April 14, 1870, the company was authorized. "to so extend
their eastern-terminus as to connect with the Allegheny Valley Railroad, and to so extend the western terminus as to connect with any other railroad;" and by another act, approved
March 7, 1872, "to construct three branches from their railroad as may be necessary and convenient for the development
and transportation of coal, ore, limestone, and other minerals
in the vicinity of their railroad, provided the said branches
shall not exceed a distance of ten miles from the main line of
said company."
The main line of the road was afterwards extended from its
eastern terminus to the Allegheny Valley Railroad on the
east side of the Allegheny River, and from its western end to
the Atlantic and Great Western Railroad near the town of
Greenville, making the entire length of that line forty-seven

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the'Court.

miles. The company also built sundry branch roads, and on
the first of July, 1877, it executed another mortgage or deed
of trust to John 1I. Devereux, trustee, to secure another pro-

posed issue of $1,000,000 of bonds. /This mortgage covered
"the entire railroad, built and to be /built, . . . from its
junction with the Atlatic and Great Western Railroad
to the Allegheny Valley Railroad on the east side of the
.AllE6gheny River, together with all its branches, extensions,
side tracks, switches, and turn-outs, built and to be built, and
also all the lands, rights, franchises, and appurtenances thereto
and also all the corporate rights and
.
.belonging, .
franchises of said railroad company;" -but it was expressly
made "subject to a previous mortgage on forty miles of the
northwestern end of the railroad aforesaid band its appurtenances executed to Henry Rawle, trustee."
,Under this mortgage $200,000 of bonds were issued, and
$175,000 in addition were placed with the following parties as
'collateral security for the following sums:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
.

First National Bank of Cleveland, 0.
Second National Bank of Erie, Pa.
First National Bank of Greenville .
Mahoning Nat. Bank of Youngstown
wick Brothers & Company .......
.......
Thomas H. Wells
In d11-bonds

.......

. . $64,000 to secure
,,
60,000
.
,,
. . 22,000
,,
16,000
,
5,000
,,
8,000
.

$30,000
35,000
20,000
10,000
2,500
5,000.

.. $175,000 to secure $102,500

On the 15th of March, 1881, Charles L, Young and Henry
Tyler, subjects of Great Britain, claiming to be the owners of
the $200,000 of bonds issued under the Devereux mortgage, fied
their bill against the Railroad Company in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania to
have a receiver appointed. This was done on the same day
the bill was fil6d, by the appointment of Thomas P. Flower
receiver, and he was at once authorized to borrow $100,000
upon his certificates, to be used in the pay'ment of wages,
interest, taxes and other preferred claims.
On the 1st of May, 188-, Devereux, as trustee under the
second mortgage, filed his bill against the company in the
same court, to foreclose his mortgage and asking the appoint-,

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. SHEDD.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of a receiver. To this the company filed an answer,
June 26, 1885, substantially admitting all the averments in
the bill, and setting forth the appointment of Flower as receiver in the suit of Young & Tyler.
On the 6th of Jrune, 1885, Rawle filed a petition in the suit,
of Young & Tyler, asking permission to sell under his mortgage, but on the 31st of July, 1885, the court, although of
opinion that "an early sale of the railroad as an entirety
would undoubtedly conduce to the benefit of its creditors,"
postponed the order asked for until a sale could be made under
both mortgages, by the two trustees acting conjointly.
On the 5th of Septomber, 1885, Devereux, by leave of the
court, filed an amended bill, to which, in addition to the railroad company, he made Rawle, trustee, Flower, the receiver,
The British and South Wales Railway Wagon Company
(Limited), The Union Rolling Stock Company (Limited), and
William A. Adams, defendants. In this amended bill it is
averred that the Devereux mortgage is a first lien on all the
main line of the company excepting only "forty miles of said
main line extending southeasterly from its junction with the
Erie and Pittsburg railroad at Shenango," and "upon all the
lateral branches of said road." The whole line, including
the lateral branches, is stated to be seventy-five miles in'
length, and the part on which the Devereux mortgage is the

first lien thirty-live miles. The -prayer is for an account of
the amount due on the bonds outstanding secured by the
mortgages to Devereux and Rawle respectively, the amount
due on the reQeiver's certificates issued by Flower, the expenses of the receivership, and certain car trust contracts, and
also for a determination of the respective priorities of all- the
incumbrances And charges on the property, and for a sale of
the mortgaged promises, free of liens,. to pay the amounts
found due in the order of their priority. This bill also prays
the appointment of a receiver to take chargeof the property
and manage the business during the pendency'of the suit.
The British and South Wales Railway Wagon Company, The
Union Rolling Stock Company, and William A. Adams atswered, setting up certain car trust contracts which are imma-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opiniou of the Court.

terial on the present appeal. Devereux, the trustee, having
died pending the suit, John M. Shedd was duly appointed in
his place and substitutei for him as complainant, April 16,
1886.
On the 18th of M ay, 1886, The First National Bank of
Cleveland, The Second National Bank of Erie, The First National Bank of Greenville, The Mahoning National Bank,
Wicks Brothers and Company, and Thomas H. Wells appeared
in court, and on the 10th of June, 1886, were permitted to
intervene in the suit, ro interesse suo, because of averments
in their petition, that Shedd, the substituted trustee, "is committed to a course, and is acting in a manner which is calculated to injure them in their security, in this, to, wit, that
there is on foot a certain scheme for the reorganization of said
railroad company, which contemplates a ' united and friendly
foreclosure' and sale'of the entire road under the two mortgages named in plaintiff's amended bill, and this action now
pending is to be used as the means of carrying forward said
reorganization scheme in connection with certain proceedings
to be instituted upon the mortgage, in which Henry Rawle is
named as trustee, and mentioned in plaintit's said bill; that
there are certain questions as to the extent of the lien of the
said Rawle mortgage, and the number of the bonds outstanding, and the mmont that is due thereon, which should be determined in this action, and which the petitioners are informed
and believe that the said Shedd, trustee, does not intend to
raise, and which, petitioners are infoimed and believe, if raised,
will be determined against the validity and amount of a large
portion of said bonds, but if left to the claim of the holders
thereof and their trustee would amount.to over one million
dollars, (81,000,000,) and be made a charge and lien upon said
premises superior to that of the bonds held by the petitioners,
and there are also disputes as to the extent of the liens of the
two mortgages, the said Rawle claiming a first lien upon the
entire road, and the petitioners claiming that it is only a lien
upon forty (40) miles of the main line, and that theirs is a first
lien upon the entire balance. That petitioners are informed and
believe that it is a part of said scheme to which said Shedd,

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. SHEDD.
Opinion of the Court.

trustee, is committbd to have the interest in said railroad
covered by the conveyance to Devereux sold without a. determination of these questions, and by so doing the petitioners
say that the value of their security will be. greatly diminished,
first, by not being able to know the exact extent thereof; and,
secondly, by being unable, by reason of the uncertainties existing as to the extent of their lien, to protect the property
from being sacrificed upon sale, and as to these matters they
beg leave of the court to refer for a fuller statement of the
same to their pleadings allowed by the, court to be'filed in case
No. 17, in equity, May term, 1884," the Young & Tyler suit.
On the -12th of June, 1886, Rawle filed a cross-bill, in which,
after setting up the mortgage in his favor and the default of
the company in the payment of interest on the bonds secured
thereby, he asked to be permitted td sell the mortgage property free of all liens, and to bring the proceeds into court, to
be distributed in accordance with the respedtive liens and
priorities of the paries.
On the 18th of June, 1886, the railroad company answered
both the amended and cross-bills, aud, leaving the parties to
litigate among themselves as to their respective rights under
the mortgages, joined in the 'prayers that the property might
be sold.
. On the 26th of June each of the intervenors filed an answer
to the cross-bill of iRawle, setting up their respective claims
and insisting that the lien of his mortgage should, be confined
to.the forty miles of main line included in the resolution of
the company authorizing its execution. It is also insisted that
the amount actually due upon the outstanding bonds is much
less than $1,000,000, for reasons which are specially stated,
and "that owing to the disputes existing as to the amount of
the first-mortgage bonds outstanding, and the extent of the
lien thereof, and the dispute as to the extent of the lien of
the second-mortgage bonds, and as disputes have arisen as to
the amount and validity of the receiver's certificates, it is necessary, in order to protect its rights as a lien creditor, to have
a court of competent jurisdiction to determine the amount of
said bdnds outstanding, and the amount due thereon and the

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

extent of the lien thereof, as well as the amount and the
extent of the lien of said second-mortgage bonds, as well as

the amount and validity of the said certificates before a sale
of the said property."
"And the respondent respectfully represents, that, if the
property of the defendant company is sold before the validity
r.nd extent of said liens are judicially determined, bidding will
be deterred on account of the risk and uncertainty, and the
property will be in great danger of being sacrificed at said
sale.
"Wherefore your respondent prays that an accounting may
be had and taken in the premises, that the amount of the
bonds outstanding in the hands of bona~ftdo holders for value
may be determined; that the extent of the lien of each'may
be judicially determined, and upon the final determination of
the matters, and not before that an order of sale may be
issued to sell the mortgaged premises, and for such other and
further relief as may be just and equitable in the premises and
to your honors shall seem meet."
After these answers were in, both Shedd and :Rawle, the
trustees, moved the court for leave to sell the mortgaged
property under their deeds of trust, and upon these motions,
on the 13th of July, the district judge, sitting in the Circuit
Court, filed an opinioin, in which the circuit judge concurred,
as follows:
'- When this case was formerly before us, upon the petition
of Henry Rawle, trustee, for leave to sell the Shenango and
Allegheny Railroad under the power of sale in the mortgage
to him, we expressed the opinion that an early sale of the
railroad as an entirety would undoubtedly conduce to the
benefit of all its creditors. This opinion is greatly strengthened by what has since transpired. Under the operation of
the receivership the financial condition of the company is
constantly growing worse, and it is now entirely clear that
the best interests of all parties concerned will be promoted by
a speedy sale. In this view the creditors generally concur.
The controlling objectibn to.the sale as formerly proposed has
been removed by the joint application of the trustees under.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. SHEDD.
Opinioh of the Court.

the two mortgages to sell by virtue of the powers of sale conferred upon them respectively, they agreeing to unite in the
sale so as to assure to the purchaser an undoubted title to
the whole property, and to so conduct'the sale as to secure
the highest price attainable.
"1We have no hesitation in finding in the case of the
Devereux-Shedd mortgage that there has been a default in
the payment of interest coupons for more than eighteen
months, and that by the election of one-tenth in Emount df
the bondholders- the principal of the bonded indebtedness
has become due and payable, and that by reason thereof the
trustee is entitled to foreclose the mortgage or exercise his
power of sale.
"The sale by the trustee will be under the control and subject to the approval of the court, and we can see to it that no
unfair advantage is taken of the minority of the bondholders
by reason of any improper combination among the majority
or otherwise.
"The court, having reached the conclusion that the mortgage trustees should be permitted to exercise their powers of
sale under the direction of the court, it is to be hoped that
the parties can speedily agree as to the manner in-which the
property.shall be offered to sale; but if they do not agree we
will hear them further upon that point before a decree is
framed."
Pursuant to this decision a decree was entered on the 14th
of October, as follows:
"This cause came on to be heard
upon a' motion
by and on behalf of the said John M. Shedd, trustee, and also
by and on behalf of the said Henry IRawle, trustee, that the
court shall order and decree a sale of all and singular the
property, real, personal, and mixed, of the Shenango and
Allegheny Railroad Company, freed and disdharged from all
liens and incumbrauces whatsoever; and also upon a motion
made by and on behalf of the said John Li. Shedd, trustee;
and also by ad on behalf of the said Henry Rawle5 trustee,
to the effect that each trustee shall be authorized and empowered under and in accordance with the terms of his mortgage
vOL. cxxi-6

82

OCTOBER, TERI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

to proceed and sell P1l and singular the property, real, personal, and mixed, covered by or included within his said.recited mortgage, and upon a motion by and on behalf of both
trustees for a sale of the entire property of the defendant company as incambered and .unable to pay the liens upon it, and
so that the proceeds thereof may be distributed amoiqg the
creditors entitled thereto. Due notice hqving been given to
all parties in interest of these motions, and that the same
would be heard, and the same having been already heard, all
-the parties in interest appearing by counsel and taking part
in the argument, and the various papers and proceedings and
record in the case of. Young et al. v. T1e 8kenango and Allegiwny R ailroad Company now pending at No. 17, May term,
1884,'of this court, as well as also all papers, affidavits, and
other proceedings in this case, and other documnents, were produced, heard, and considered by the court in support of the
said motions, and the court, after consideration, being of the
opinion that it was to be the best interest of all parties concerned that the said railroad and all the property of the Shenango and Allegheny Railroad Company should be sold as
speedily as possible; and having filed an opinion to that effect, and the parties in interest being unable to agree upon the
form of a deQree directing said 'sale, and the court having
fixed the 30th day of. September, A.D. 1886, for settling the
form of a decree, and counsel for all the respective parties
having appeared and having been duly heard, and the court
having considered the premises, do now order, adjudge, and
decree, as follows:"
Then follows a detailed statement of all the property of the
company, describing particularly its main line and branches,
and also its lands, rolling-stock, and other property. There is
then a iinding of the execution of the two mortgages to Rawle
and Devereux, the amount of bonds originally issued thereunder, and a default in the payment of interest such as would
-entitle the several trustees to take possession and sell under
the powers.vested in them respectively, and an adjudicat.ion
that tle trustees are severally "entitled to proceed and foreis also' found that the mortgages
close the saidl mortgage." -It

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. SHEDD.
Opinion of the Court

are each valid and existing liens on so much of the property
"as was thereby lawfully conveyed to the said respective trustees, and which thereafter became vested in the said trustees
respectively as ,after-acquired property, according to the terms
of said mortgag6s, or either. of them;" that all of the original
issue of bonds under the lRawle mortgage was outstanding,
with, interest coupons attached, from October 1, 1884, and
under the Devereux, $375,000 and all the interest warrants
from their date, but there is no finding of the amount actually
due on either of. the issues. It is also found tlat there are
$155,849.87 of receiver's certificates outstanding on which
'interest is payable at the rate of six per cent. per annum from
their respective dates, and that these, "together with the costs,
charges, and lawful expenses in this cause, and the costs,
charges, expenses of the liabilities of the receivership, including the costs in the case of Young v. The 87 ango and .Alle.gheny Vally Railroad Company in this court, and all just
and proper' compensation, expenses, and allowances to the
said receiver and the trustees under the said mortgages; and to
asy of the parties to the said cause, are entitled to be paid
outof the proceeds of the

.

.

.

sale in the first instance,"

and inpreference to the bondholders.
The decree then proceeds as follows:
"(8) And this court does further find, adjudge, and decree
that all the property, real, personal, and mixed, of the said
Shenango and Allegheny Railroad Oompany is subject to the
lien of either the said mortgage to the said Henry Rawle,
trustee, or to the said mortgage' to the said John H. Devereux,
trustee, as also 'to the outstanding receiver's certificates, and
that there-are conflicting claims in reference to the priority of
liens and their extent, and that there are conflicting claims
between the said mortgagees and some of the bondholders in
reference to the number of bonds legally outstanding and unpaid under the said respective mortgages to the said Henry
'Rawle, trustee, and to the said John H. Devereux, trustee,
and, also, that there are conflicting claims in reference to the
amounts of money due on the said respective bonds outstanding under the said mortgages which the holders thereof are

OCTOBER TERI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

entitled to receive; and this court also finds that the Shenango
and Allegheny Railroad Company is insolvent, and that it
w-ould be to the best interests of all parties concerned that the
said property, real, personal and mixed, of. the said defendant
company should be sold; and it appearing to the said court that
such sale by this court of the said property is prayed for
under the amended bill filed by the said John M. Shedd,
trustee, and also in the cross-bill filed by the said Henry
iRawle, trustee, this court do now, upon motion of the solicitors for the said John MNL
Shedd, trustee, and also upon motion
of the solicitors of the said Henry Rawle, trustee, the solicitols for the company and the receiver acquiescing herein, do
now order, adjudge and decree that the said Henry Rawl6
and John M. Shedd be, and they are hereby, appointed special
commissioners by this court to make sale of all and singular
the property, real, personal, and mixed, including the franchises of the said Shenango and Allegheny :Railroad Conpzny; said sale shall be on the 25th day of January, 188T, at
Shenango, the-junction of the Shenango and Allegheny Railroad with the Atlantic and Great Western, now New York,
Pennsylvania and Ohio Railroad, near Greenville, Mercy
County, Pennsylvania, at twelve (12) o'clock. noon, and it
shall be at public aucti6n, and the sale shall be made to the
highest and best bidder, and report thereof made to this court."
It is then ordered that the whole property b5e sold as an
entirety, at not less than -625,000, and that upon a confnrmation of the sale the purchaser be entitled to a conveyance
freed and discharged of the lien of the" mortgages, receiver's
certificates, costs, expenses, &d., and the conclusion is as follows:.
"13th. All disputes and controversies between the two
mortgage trustees,1 the said Rawle and the said Shedd, or the
bondholders.under the said two mortgages, touching the extent of the lien of the said mortgages,, respectively, or the
priority of-the lien of the said mortgages, respectively, as
well as all questions concerning and touching the amounts due
bondholders, respectively, under the said two mortgages, are
hereby expressly reserved for future consideration and determination unaffected by anything in this decree."

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. SHEDD.
Opinion of the Court.

From this decree the intervenors alone have ajppealed, and
that appeal Shedd and Rawle move to dismiss because it was
"taken from an interlocutory decree or order of sale and not
a final decree." With this motion is also united a motion to
affirm under IRule 6, ยง 5.
The motion to dismiss is' overruled, but the motion to affirm
is granted. The appeal in its present form brings up for review the single question of the propriety of ordering a sale
before the rights of the parties under the several mortgages
have been fully ascertained and determined. All parties, ineluding the mortgage trustees, are satisfied, except these
appellants, who have been allowed to intervene P2o i)nte7,es.9e
suo, and who represent but a small minority of the mortgage
indebtedness. The only substantial issues presented by their
answers relate to the extent of the priority of the lien of the
Rawle mortgage, and the amount due on that issue of bonds.
They do not deny that the property must in the end be sold
under the mortgages, and, while insisting that Thwle can onl
enforce his lien to the extent of the past due interest on that
issue of bonds, there is no offer to provide means for the payment of that interest, and there is no pretence that the part
of the property covered by his mortgage, whatever it may be.
can be sold to advantage otherwise than as an entirety.
Neither is it claimed that the.property c6vered by the Devereux mortgage alone can be sold' separate from the rest as
advantageously as if the whole road and its branches were
offered together. The entire-opposition to a sale now rests on
the claim that it is necessary. in order to protect the rights of
these intervenors as lien creditors, that all disputed questions
should be settled, or "bidding will be deterred on account of
the risk and uncertainty, and the property will be in great
danger of being sacrificed."
Against this is the fact that both the trustees agree in the
opinion that the interests of their respective beneficiaries will
be best subserved by an iimnediate sale, in which the creditors
generally concur. In addition to this, the court finds, and the
evidence shows, that the financial condition of the company
under the administration of the receiver is continually: nrow-

86

.....

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

ing worse.

The receiyer's certificates have increased since

March 15, 1884, when the first loan was authorized, from
$100,000 to nearly $156,000 in October, 1886, and the receiver, in his answers, says, that from his knowledge "of the
condition of said railroad company. and its property and
finances, he verily believes it would be for the best interest of
all parties'concerned, including the stockholders, bondholders,
and oreditors, .... ..
that all its property should be sold as
soon as possible, and in such manner as to give the purchasers
thereof an unincumbered title thereto."
This also was the
opinion of the court when Rawle made his application in the
suit of Young & Tyler for leave to sell, and which was then
denied because the trustee of the Devereux mortgage did not
unite in the application, and the court was satisfied that a
fragmentary sale would operate injuriously upon the rights of
all who were interested in securing the largest price for the
property to be sold.
Against all this we do not find, a'word of evidence in the
record, so that the only question is whether the law requires
that a sale should be postponed against the wishes of *the
mortgage trustees and a large majority of the bondholders,
simply because these intervenors, representing a minority interest, object. As a;rule the trustee of a railroad mortgage
represents the bondholders in all legal proceedings carried on
by him affecting his trusz to which they are not actually parties. There is here no evidence to show fraud or unfairness
on the part of the trustees. The company'is satisfied with
what they are doing, and so are all the bondholders under the
:Rawle mortgage, and a majority of those under that to Devereux. As -was said in Skihzw v. Railroad Company, 100 U. S..
605, 612: " Railroad mortgages are a peculiar class of securities. The trustee represents the mortgage, and in executing
his tiust may exercise his own discretion within the scope of
his powers. If there are differences of opinion -among the
bondholders as to what their interests require, it is not improper that he should be g'vered by the voice of the majority acting in good faith and without collusion, if what they
ask is not inconsistent with the provisions of his trust." Here

CARPER v. FITZGERALD.
Syllabus.

the majority want an, immediate sale. In this the trustees
both agree, a does the railroad company itself. There is no
evidence whatever of a want of good faith in- any one.. The
court below, having the practical worldngs of the receivership
under its own eye, did not hesitate to say that "it is now entirely olear that the best interests of all parties conberned will
be promoted by a speedy sale," and we see nothing to the
contrary.
Of the power of the court to make such an order in a proper
case we have no doubt. The property is in the possession of
the court and is depreciating in value by the accumulation
of receiver's indebtedness, while the Jitigation between the
parties as to their respective interests in it is going on. There
cannot be a doubt that the whole ought to be sold togetlher.
If in the end it shall be found that the :Rawle mortgage covers
only a part, it will be as,easy to fix the rule for dividing the
proceeds equitably between the two securities after a sale as
before, and there is nothing in the decree as entered to interfere in any way with such a distribution.
. Upon the facts as presented to us we are entirely satisfied
that the decree of the court below was right., and it is consequently affirmed.
T]e motion, to disziss is overruled and tke decree cffirnzed.

CARPER v. FITZGERALD.
APPEAL

FROM

TIlE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF TiE UNITED STATES Fo1

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGLMLA.
Argued March 18, ISST. -Decded

March 28, 1887.

No appeal lies to this court from an order of a Circuit Judge of the United
States, sitting as a judge and not as a court, discharging a prisoner
brought before him on a writ of habeascorpus
An or('er of the Circuit Judge of the Fourth Circuit, made at Baltimore,
Maryland, that a prisoner brought before him there from Richmond,
Virginia, on a writ of habeas corpus, shall be discblated, is a proceeding
before him as a judge and not as sitting as a court; and it is not con-

