OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

ROBINSON v. ANDERSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted April 18, 1887.-Decided May 2,1887.

When, after all the pleadings are filed in a cause in a Circuit Court of the
United States between citizens of the same state, it appears that the
averments in the declaration which alone gave the court jurisdiction are
immaterial in the determination of the matter in dispute, and are made
for the purpose of creating a case cognizable by the court, it is the duty
of the Circuit Court to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction.
THE plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff below, a citizen
of California, brought suit against other citizens of the same
state, to recover possession of lands in Los Angeles County,
California, alleging that the action arose "under the laws of
the United. States and the treaty known as the treaty- of
Guadelupe-Hidalgo." After answers were filed the case was
dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The plaintiff sued out this
writ of error to review that judgment. The case is stated in
the opinion of the court.

.X. L. D. Latimer for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
31R. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error sued out under ยง 5 of the act of March
3, 18T5, c. 13'[, 18 Stat. 4'10, for the review of an order of the
Circuit Court dismissing a suit brought by Robinson, a citizen
of California, against other citizens of the same state, for
want of jurisdiction. The claim on the part of the plaintiff in
error is, that upon the face of the complaint it appears that
the suit is one arising under the Constitution, or laws, or treaties of the United States; and that consequently the Circuit
Court had jurisdiction by reason of the subject matter of the

ROBINSON v. ANDERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

action; but on examination we find that, according to the
plaintiff's own showing in his complaint, his rights all depend
on the boundaries of the Rancho Los Bolsas, granted by the
Mexican government to Manuel lieto, and confirmed and pa-.
tented to his representatives by the United States under the
act of March 3, 1851, c. 41, 9 Stat. 631, "to ascertain and settle the private land claims in the state of California." Primarily these boundaries depend on the description of the land
granted as found in the patent issued under the decree of confirination, and it nowhere appears that either the Constitution
or any law or treaty of the United States is involved in this.
It is true that in the complaint the plaintiff alleges that the
several defendants claim to be owners of parts of the Rancho
Santiago de Santa Ana, adjoining the Rancho Los Bolsas on
the east, granted by the Mexican government to Antonio
Yorba in 1810, and confirmed and patented by the United
States to Bernard Yorba and others in 1855, and that, if the
ranchos overlap, the title of the defendants is the best, because
the grant of the Rancho Santiago de Santa Ana is the oldest
and has precedence. He also alleges that the defendants claim
"that they are 'third persorfs' as to whom the patents of Los
Bolsas are not conclusive under the act of" 1851, just referred
to, and there are also some allegations as to the authority of
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, under the laws
of the United States, to order a resurvey of the Rancho Santiago de Santa Ana, which had been once surveyed so as to
exclude the premises in dispuite. Many of the defendants answered, denying that they were in possession of any portion
of the premises in dispute, and others claiming that they were
in possession "by and with the consent of plaintiff made and
given to defendants by plaintiff's agent, R. X. Northam, on
or about the- day of June, 1882, and not otherwise." Others
claim to be in possession "in severalty under and by virtue of
written contracts for the conveyance of said several tracts of
land . . . by the said plaintiff to said defendants." None
of the defendants in their answers claim title under the grant
of the Rancho Santiago de Santa Ana.
Upon the pleadings the court dismissed the suit, evidently

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

for the reason that it did not "really and substantially involve
a dispute or controversy within the jurisdiction" of that.court.
Such was t]lp clear duty of the court under the act of 1875,
u less fron'r the questions presented by the pleadings it distinctly appeared that some right, title, privilege, or immunity,
on which the recovery depended, would be defeated by one
construction of the Constitution or some law or treaty of
the United States, or sustained by an opposite construction.
Sta ' v. 2tew York,115 U. S. 248, 2511.
Even if the complaint, standing by itself, made out a case
of jurisdiction, which we do not decide, it was taken away
as soon as the answers were in, because if there was jurisdiction'at all it was by reason of the averments in the
complaint as to what the defences against the title of the
plaintiffs would be, and these were of no avail as soon as the
answers were filed and it was made to appear that no such
defences were relied on. The Circuit Court cannot be required to keep jurisdiction of a suit simply because the averments in a complaint or declaration make a case arising under
the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States, if,
when the pleadings are all in, it appears that these averments
are immaterial in the determination of the matter really in
dispute between the parties, and especially if, as here, they
were evidently made "for the purpose of creating a case"1 cognizable by the Circuit Court, when none in fact existed. The
provision in ยง 5 of the act of 1875, requiring the Circuit Court
to proceed no further, and dismiss the suit when it satisfactorily appears that, "such suit does not really, and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within" its
jurisdiction, applies directly to this case as it stands on the
pleadings. The answers show that the case made by the complaint was fictitious and not real. The defendants either disclaim all interest in the land, or claim title under and not adverse to that of the plaintiff.
The order dismising the oase is afftrmed.

