OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

which the usury is alleged to have consisted ) were not paid
to the plaintiff. The plaintiff made no contract for usurious
interest nor did it take any Call v. Pakmer, 116 U. S. 98.
The gravamen of the cross-bill of Grant is, that his debt to
the plaintiff was extinguished by reason of a contract of sale
entered into by him with it, by which, in consideration of the
advances it had made to him, and of the amount due from
him to it on the several trust deeds, and certan other considerations, he agreed to convey to it 11 of the lots involved m
this litigation. It is suifficient to say, that the proofs do not
sustain the existence of any such contract. No such contract
was ever executed m writing, none was even in part performed
by either of the parties, and letters which passed between
them subsequently to.March 1, 1873, (the alleged date of the
contract,) show that no such contract was understood by them
to exist.
Other minor considerations are urged in the briefs of the
appellant, which we have considered, but which it is not
deemed important to discuss at length. We see- no error m
the final decree of the court below, and it is
Affirmed.

GRANT & Another v. PH(ENIX

LIFE INSURANCE

COMPANY
APPEAL FROIN

THE SUPR]iEME

COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMhBIA.

Argued March 25, 157.- Decided April 4,1857.

In a suit in equity to enforce trust deeds, a receiver appointed to receive
rents and to lease unrented property, may apply to the court for directions in regard to the expenditure of funds in his hands as receiver.
The reference of a suit in equity by the Special Term of the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia to the General Term for hearing in the first
instance does not deprive the Special Term of authority to afterwards
hear such application of the receiver, especially when the General Term
has made an order granting leave to the receiver to apply to the Special
Term for instructions.
Such an application may be made bv the receiver to the Special Term even

GRANT v. PHCENIX LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.
after an appeal to this court from the final decree of the General Term,
which operates as a supersedeas.
An order of the General Term remanding to the Special Term a petition of
the receiver that a tenant may attorn to him, for inquiry into the facts,
and action on the petition, is an interlocutory order and not appealable
to this court.

Tn-E case is stated in the opinion of the court.
1fXr. Josepk E. XDonald and -. lr.I
lants.
3 r. TiIlian F.
pellee.

attingly and

.

T. Blair for appel-

. ..R 3fo.11vis for ap-

M. JUSTICE BcATHcroRD delivered the opinion of the court.
After the making of the final decree of June 16, 1883, by
the General Term of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, in the case of the Plicenix Mutual Life Insurance
Company against Albert Grant and others, the appeal from
which decree, (taken by Grant,) has just been decided, [ante,
105,] the receiver appoinfed by the interlocutory decree of
:March 2, 1882, obtained from the court in Special -Term, on
the 8th of January, 1886, an order, on notice to Grant, authorizing the receiver to make such necessary repairs to the
houses on the lots involved in the litigation as in his judgment
are essential to the preservation of the property and to its
occupation by tenants, with due regard to economy, and,
among other repairs, to put in proper vorking condition the
machinery and apparatus used in supplying the houses with:
water. Grant appealed to the General Term from this order,
and on the 5th of April, 1886, it was affirmed. Grant has
appealed from this order of affirmance to this court.
On the 11th of October, 1884, the receiver appointed by the
interlocutory decree of the General Tehn, of March 2, 1882,
applied by petition to the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, in Special Term, for an order requiring Henry W.
Blair, not a party to the cause, but who was in the possession
and occupation of the house on one of the lots covered by the

OCTOBER TERAM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

decree, to atton and pay rent to the receiver. On a hearing,
on notice to Blair and on his appearance, the Special Term directed the application to be heard in the first instance by the
General Term; and the General Term, on the 5th of April,
1886, made an order -remanding the. matter to the court in
Special Term, for reference by it to the auditor of the court,
with leave to Blair to show by proof the time when, and the
terms and conditions under which, he entered into possession
of the property in- question, under Grant, the amount of
money paid by him to Grant, for what purpose it was paid,
and whether such money or any part thereof, and how much,
was expended by Grant in betterments upon any of the property in the custody of the receiver, .wth leave to the plaintiff,
and to the receiver also, to introduce pertinent testimony before the auditor, the auditor to ascertain all facts material to
the subject matter of the reference, and report the same, with
his conclusions, to the court in Special Term, for its action.
From this order Blair and Grant have appealed to this court.
The appellants contend, on these two appeals, (1) that the receiver, not being a party to the cause, has no independent
standing.in court, and cannot institute any proceeding on his
own motion; -(2) that the Special Term of the Supreme Court
of the District-of Columbia has not, since its order made on
the 9th of February, 1881, referring the cause to the court in
General Term, for hearing in the first instance, had any jurisdiction of the suit; (3) that the General Term has had no
jurisdiction of the suit since the perfecting of the appeal to
this court from the final decree of June 16, 1883.
We are of opinion that a receiver such as the one in this
case, in -charge of property such as that in this case, has a
right to apply to the court for directions in regard to the expenditure of funds in his hands as receiver.
In regard to the jurisdiction of the Special Term since the
order of the 9th of February, 1881, we are of opinion that
the maldng of that-order did hot deprive the court in Special
Term of its jurisdiction to act in the matter covered by the
order of the Sth of 3amiary, 1886, -Besides, the, General
Term: in its interlo, utory decree of March 2, 1882, granted

BLOOMFIELD v

CHARTER OAK BANK.
Syllabus.

leave "to the receiver to apply to the court, or this court in
Special Term, for such instructions and orders as may be
proper."
We are also of opinion that the appeal to this court from
the final decree of June 16, 1883, even though perfected with
a supersedeas, did not deprive the court below of its power to
adjudicate upon such a matter as that involved in the order of
January 8, 1886. There is nothing in this view inconsistent
with the general rule that an appeal suspends the power of the
court below to proceed further in the cause, by executing the
decree. The order of January 8, 1886, was strictly confined
to the preservation-of the property in litigation.
As to the order of the General Term 'of April 5, 1886, in
the Blair matter, it was clearly merely an interlocutory order,
and not a final one, in reference to the matter to which it relates, as it merely directed proceedings in the court in Special
Term in reference to the application made in regard to Blair,
with a view to a decision upon the application.
The order a#Prrningthe order of January8, 1886, is afflrmed,
and the appealfromr tMe order of April 5, 1886, in regard
to Blair,is dismissedfor want of jurisdictio.

BLOOMFIELD v. CHA-RTER OA

BANK.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
Argued January5, 6,1887.-Decided April 4,1887.

A town in Connecticut cannot make a contract, or authorize any officer or
agent to make one in its behalf, except by vote of the inhabitants at a
meeting warned by publicly' posting a notice specifying the subject
of the vote; and any one, who relies upon a vdto -as giving him rights
against thd town, has the burden of proving such a notice, afthough the
selectmen and town clerk have neglected their duty of filing and recording the notice, and although the record of the meeting states that it was
"legally warned."
The property of any inhabitant of a town in Coniecticutmay be taken on
execution upon a judgment against the town.

