OCTOBER TERM, 1886.'
Statement of Facts.

HUISKA P v. MOLINE WAGON CO.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FO.

THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF' 1ISSOURI.
Argued April 6,1887.-n Decided April 18, 1887.

In an attachment suit in Missouri the defendant, R., filed a plea in abatement, on which a trial was had, sustaining the abatement. The attachment had been levied on goods claimed by H., by transfer from R., and
H, filed al interplea, which was tried. On the trial the court admitted in
evidence the proceedings on the trial on the plea in abatement, to show
that the transfer was'fraudulent on the part of R.; Held, that this was
error, because *H.,was nol a party to the proceedings on the plea in
abatemeut,
On6 partner may, with the consent of his copartner, apply the partnership
property to the payment of his individual debt, as against a creditor of
the partnership, who has acquired no lien on the property.'
Where such payment is clainied to be lawful ou the'ground 'that the property so applied has become the individual property of the partner making
the payment, no creditor of the partnership acquires any right in respect
of the property by the fact that he does not know of the transfer of the
property tosuch partner, so long as he has no lien on the property, and
it is applied in good faith by such partner to pay his individual debt.

ON the' 8th of January, 1880, the Moline Wagon Company,
an Illinois corporation, commenced an attachment suit in the
Circuit Court of Putnam County, in the state of JMissouri,
against Jacob Rummel and Edwin R. Cutler, copartners
under the name of J. Rummel & Son. The suit was brought
under a statute of Missouri, and claimed an indebtedness of
$6722.61. The ground on which the attachment was issued
was that the defendants had "fraudulently conveyed or assigned their property or effects so as to hinder and delay their
creditors," and had "fraudulently concealed, removed or disposed of their property or effects so as to hinder or delay their
creditors," and were "about fraudulently to convey or assign
their property or effects so as to hinder or delay their creditors." Under this attachment, the sheriff, on the 9th of
January, 1880, seized a quantity of goods in the possession
of the firm of Huiskamp Brothers, the proceeds of which are

RIUISKA

P v. MOLINE WAGON CO.
Statement of Facts.

the subject of controversy. These goods were subsequently
sold as perishable property, and the proceeds, $5246.5Q, were
placed in court.
On the 15th of March, 1880, the plaintiff removed the suit
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western
Division of the Western District of Missouri. Prior to the
sale of the goods, and on the 8th of May, 1880, Hiuiskamp
Brothers filed in the suit, under the statute of Missouri, what
is called an interplea, claiming to be the owners of the goods
attached, and to have been such owners at the date of the levy
of the attachment, and demanding a return of the property.
On the 17th of May, 1880, -Rummel filed a plea in the
nature of a plea in abatement, denying the indebtedness,
denying the several frauds alleged, and praying for an abatement of the attachment and a release of the property. After
the sale of the property, and on the 17th of May, 1881, Iuiskamp Brothers filed an amended interplea, claiming that when
the goods were seized the same belonged to them and were
in their possession; that the goods were wrongfully seized;
and that the proceeds of their sale, in court, amounting to
$5246.50, were their property. - The plaintiff answered the
amended interplea and denied its allegations. A trial of the
interplea" Was had before the court and a jury in October,
1882, at which a verdict was found that the property attached
and the proceeds thereof "were not and are not the property
of the interpleaders," on which ,ajudgment was entered for
the plaintiff and against the interpleaders, to review which
the interpleaders brought this writ of error.
The mode of procedure by interplea, in an attachment
suit, where a third party claims the attached property; was
authorized by ยง 449 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, of
1879, which is as follows: "Any person claiming property,
money, effects, or credits attached, may interplead in the
cause, verifying the same by affidavit, and issues may be
made upon such interplea, and shall be tried as like issues
between plaintiff and defendant, and without any unnecessary
delay."
The bill of exceptions contained the following statement as
to the proceedings had at the trial:

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

"The interpleaders,- in support of their title to the property
in controversy, offered testimony, which was admitted, tending
to prove such title, as follows:
"First. A 'chattel mortgage, made by defendant Jacob
Rummel, to the interpleaders, on the stock of merchandise,
the proceeds of which are in controversy, dated December 24,
1879, and the notes of said Jacob Rummel to said interpleaders secured thereby, of same date, one for $2500 and one for
$1500, each due one day after date, and bearing ten per cent.
interest from.date. Said mortgage was signed and acknowledged in due form and fied for record in the office of the
recorder of deeds of Putnam County, Missouri, on January 1,
1880. Said mortgage provided that the mortgagees might sell
the mortgaged property at public sale on ten days' notice.
"Second. That said stock of merchandise was actually
transferred and delivered to the interpleaders on January 6,
1880, prior to the seizure of the, same under the writ of attachment issued in the case of the plaintiffs against the
defendants.
"The interpleaders further offered testimony, which was
admitted in evidence, tending to show that they were wholesale dealers in boots and shoes in the city of. Keokuk, Lee
County, Iowa, and had been for many years; that, prior to
January, 1878, the defendants Jacob Rummel and Son were
partners engaged in business in the town of Unionville, Putnam County, Missouri, under the firm name of Rummel &
Son, and their business was that of general retail merchandise, including farming implements, wagons, &c.; that, in
January, 1878, the said partners dissolved said firm and
divided the property and business thereof, and both of said
partners informed the interpleaders of such dissolution.
"That, after such dissolution, the said Jacob IRummel continud at the same place the general retail merchandise business, and the defendant Ed. R. Cutler engaged in the business of selling agricultural implements, including wagons;
that, after January, 1878, as between themselves, the said
Rummel had no interest in the profits or losses of the business carried on by Cutler in the agricultural, implement busi-

HUISKAMP v. MOLINE WAGON CO.

313"

Statement of Facts.

*ness, and Cutler no interest in the profits or losses- of the
merchandise business; that the indebtedness for which the
stock of merchandise was mortgaged or pleAged was for
goods sold to Jacob IRummel after the dissolution and division of the business and property of the firm of Rummel &
Son; that, when the interpleaders took the mortgage, and
also when-they took possession of the stock of merchandise,
they understood that the same belonged to Jacob Rummel,
and had been led to so believe from the statements of both
Cutler and iRummel; that they took said mortgage and possession of said stock of merchandise in good faith, to secure
'their debt, and not to hinder, delay, or defraud, or to assist in
hindering, delaying, or defrauding, the creditors of the said
iRummel or Rummel & Son; that Rummel made the conveyance and transfer to the interpleaders in good faith, to secure
their debt, and not with 'the fraudulent purpose of hindering,

delaying, or defrauding his creditors, or those of the firm of
Rummel & Son."
Luke Huiskamp, one of the interpleaders, testified to the
circumstances under which. Huiskamp Brothers took the mortgage and entered into possession 'of the mortgaged property.
His testimony showed that they did so upoil the understanding and belief, derived from both Rummel and Cutler, that
the property belonged to IRummel; and that the only purpose
of iluiskamp. Brothers was to secure bona Xde debts due to
them, and to 'certain other creditors, by Rummel.
The bill of exceptions then went on to state as follows:
"Jacob Rummel, a witness for the interpleaders, on .his
cross-examination, among other things, testified, that Thomas"
X. Fee was the attorney Qf interpleaders, and was present at
the time of the taking possession by the interpleaders of the
property in controversy, and has been such attorney from that
time until the present; that, at the time of the trial of the
plea in abatement of Rummel, said Fee was the attorney of
Rummel, and was employed by Rummel to assist, and did
assist, in the trial of such plea in abatement.
"The plaintiffs offered testimony, which was admitted in
evidence, tending to show that the interpleaders took the

OCTOBER TERME, 1886.
Statement of :Facts.

mortgage on, and possession of, the stock of merchandise in
controversy, not in good faith, but to assist the defendant
Cutler in hindering, delaying, and defrauding his creditors
and the creditors f the firm of Rummel & Son; that there
was no dissolution of the firm, or division of the firm property, in January, 1878, or afterwards; that Jacob Rummel
made the transfer and conveyance to interpleaders with the
intent to hinder, delay, and defraud his creditors; that plaintiffs were engaged -in, the manufacture and salp of wagons,
and had been for.many years, and had, prior to January, 1878,
dealt with Rummel & Son, and continued to deal with them,
after .that time; that they never knew of the dissolution of
said firm or division of its property, and there never was any
published notice of such dissolution; that the debt on which
they brought suit in the attachment' proceedings was contracted on their part under the belief that the fim of Rummel & Son was still in existence."
The plaintiff then- offered in evidence the 'affidavit on
which the attachment was issued in the main suit against
iRummel and Cutler, the plea in abatement of lRummel
thereto, and. that part of the record in the attachment suit
which showed the proceedings on the trial of such plea in
abatement, including the verdict and the judgment, the verdict being the fnding of the issues for the plaintiff, and the
judgment being that the plea in abatement be overruled and
the attachment sustained. The interpleaders objected to the
introduction of the affidavit, plea in abatement, record entries,
verdict and judgment, upon the grounds that they were not
parties to the trial and issues on the plea in abatement, "and
that the issues tried thereon were entirely separate and distinct
from the issues upon trial here, and hence the testimony is
irrelevant and immaterial, relating to different parties and
different subject matter." The bill of exceptions stated that
"the court overruled the objections of the interpleaders and
admitted said papers for one purpose, to show that the conveyance and transfer of the stock of merchandise in controversy to the interpleaders was fraudulent on the part of Jacob
Rummel; to which action of the court, in overruling said

IlUISKAMP v. MOLINE WAGON CO.

315'

Statement of Facts.

objections and admitting sid testimony, the interpleaders at
the time excepted."
Under the statute of Missouri, writs )f attachment are
obtained at the time of or after the commencement of the
suit, upon an affidavit specifying one or more of the statutory
causes of attachment. Sections 438 and 439 of the Revised
Statutes of Missouri provide for the filing by the defendant
in the attachment, of a plea, in the nature of a plea in abatement, putting in issue the truth of the facts alleged in the
affidavit on which the attachment was sued out, and for a
trial of the issue.
In addition to the ruling as t6 the proceedings on the plea
in abatement, the court, in charging the jury, said: "In the
attachment suit between the Moline Wagon Company and
Rummel and Cutler, Rummel filed what in law is termed a
plea in abatement; that'is, he denied the facts alleged in the
affidavit made by the company to obtain the attachment.
The law allows attachments to issue and property to be seized
in cases only where debtors have dealt, or are about to deal,
with their property in an illegal way. The affidavit made by
the Moline Wagon Company at the time they sued out their
attachment, in appropriate legal language charged that Rummel and Cutler had or were about fraudulently to convey their
property so as to hinder and delay their creditors in the collection of their debts. This charge Rummel denied. A triql
which was had on this issue resulted in the sustaining of the
attachment; that is, the charge made in the affidavit by the
Moline Wagon Company, that Rumnmel had fraudulently conveyed, or was about fraudulently to convey, the property in
controversy, to hinder and delay creditors, was true. Cutler,
the defendant with Rummel in the attachment suit, did not
appear, and thereby confessed the charge of fraud."
The court also said in its charge: "So -far as the intent to
defraud, hinder, and delay creditors on part of Rummel is
concerned. a trial of that issue has been had in this court,
with the result brought to your notice by reading from the
records. The intention of Runnnel in making the mortgage
to IHuiskamp Brothers was found to have been fraudulent.

OCTOBER TERAL 1886.
Argument for Defendaut in Error.

but this of itself is not sufficient to make the mortgage fraudalent as to Huiskamp Brothers. Huiskamp Brothers may
have known, when they accepted the mortgage from Rummel,
that he intended to defraud, hinder, and delay his creditors by
it; yet, if they in no way participated in the fraud of Rummel, did no act to aid or assist him in the illegal act, and intended to secure their debt only, the mortgage as to them is
valid, and they are entitled to the benefit of the same; but,
on the other hand, if, aside from the securing of their own
debt, Huiskamp Brothers, by and through the mortgage,
undertook to aid and assist Rummel in his fraudulent purposes to hinder and delay the IMfoline Wagon Company, or
any other creditor, in the collection of their debt, in such case
the mortgage is void, and they can claim nothing under it, as
against creditors. This is the important question in the case,
and you should carefully examine the whole of the testimony
bearing upon this point."
The interpleaders excepted to those portions of the charge
which referred to the trial of the issues between' the plaintiff
and Rummel, on the ground that neither the proceedings on
Rummel's plea in abatement, nor Cutler's confession of the
charge of fraud made in the affidavit, could affect the rights
of the interpleaders.
-Y. James Hagermanfor plaintiffs in error.
_i r. C. X. Osao
error.

and .-L'. S. A. Lynde for defendant in

I. (1) If there was no legal dissolution of the.partnership, and
the partners continued to hold"the property in controversy aspartnership. property, and to deal with it ostensibly as firm
property, it remained partnership property so far as creditors
are concerned who knew nothing of a division of the property
and who trusted the firm.
(2) Where partners continue to carry on business as partners,
and under the firm name, and to hold property and deal with
it ostensibly as partnership property, such property remains
partner hip property, notwithstanding a secret agreement of

HfUISKAMP v. MOLINE WAGON CO.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

division of property may have been entered into between the
partners, and so far as creditors are concerned who knew
nothing of Such agreement and gave credit to the firm, the
partners, and any purchaser or grantee from them in their
individual capacity with notice that the property was being
held and ostensibly dealt with by the partners as partnership
property, will be equitably estopped from denying its status
as partnership property. "The creditors who had dealt with
the firm under the belief, superinduced by the acts of all the
parties, that they were partners, were entitled to rely not only
upon the personal responsibility of all, but upon the equitable
security in the partnership effects to be worked out through
them."

Yelly v. Scott, 49 N. Y. 595, 599; Hillman v. Xfoore,

3 Tenn. Oh. 454, 458.

See also Ex 1,arte Hayman, 8 Ch.

Div. 11; I re Rowland, L. R. 1 Ch.421; French v. Chase,'6
Greenl. 166; lTord v. Baldwin, 6 Pick. 348; Van JFalen v.
Russell, 13 Barb. 590; Elliot v. Stevens, 38 N. H. 311.
(3) By a bona )Fde agreement of dissolution and division of
partnership property among the partners, or by a bona f de
transfer of the partnership property to one partner, it is converted into the individual separate property of the partner,
wholly free from the claims of the joint creditors, and the partnership creditors are deprived of their quasi lien or derivative
equity. Case v..Beauregard,99 U. S. 119; Fitzpatrick v. Flannagan, 106 U. S. 648; SchmidlaWjp v. Currie,55 iMississippi, 597.
(4) To be valid, however, such transfer or agreement of
dissolution and division of the partnership effects must be
bonajide; and if not it is invalid and a nullity, save only in
the case of a bona fide purchaser for a valuable consideration
without notice of the mala fXdes of the transaction. Case v.
Beauregard,99 U. S. -.119; Howe v. Lawrence, 9 Cush. 555,
556;' Wilson v. R6bertson, 21 N. Y. 587; Ransdm v. 'Fan
-Deventer,41 Barb. 307; Fv parte Williams, 11 Yes. 3, 5; In
re Waite, 1 Lowell, 207.
(5) A secret agreement of this character between the partners which is not made public or accompanied by public notice
and by some open and visible evidence of its existence is fraudI S. C. 57 Am. Dec. 68.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Defendant In Error.

ulent and void. In re Tomes, 19 Nat. Bank. Reg. 37; In re
.McVcrland, 10 Nat. Bank. Reg. 381; Flack v. Charron, 29
M[aryland, 311 ; Elliot v. Stevens, 38 N. H. 311; see, also, Tn
re Shepard, 3 Ben. 347; In re KYrueger, 2 Lowell, 66; In re
D!unkle, 7 Nat. Bank. Reg. 107; -elly v. Scott, 49 N. Y. 595.
(6) A conveyance or mortgage of partnership property
made by a partner in his individual behalf to satisfy or secure
the payment of his individual debts is fraudulent and void as
to the partnership and its creditors. Rogers v. Batchelor, 12
Pet. 221; Locke v. Lewis, 124: -Mass. 1; -Livingston v. Roosevelt, 4 Johns. 251 ;'1
Dob v. Halsey,16 Johns. 34; 2 Flarnaganv.
Alexander, 50 Missouri, 50; Ackley v. Staehlin, 56 Missouri,
558; Price v. Hunt, 59 Missouri, 258; Hilliker v. Francisco,
65 Missouri, 598; PAe ps v. .Zecleely, 66 Missouri, 554; Johnson v. Hersey, '70 Missouri, 74; Cotzhausen v. Judd, 43 Wis.
213; Hurtv. Clarke, 56 Ala. 19. Save only where the grantee
or person dehling with the partner did not have notice that
the property was partnership property, or that the partner
was abusing his powers and authority as a member and agent
of the partnership. Locke v. Iewis, 124 Mass. 1; Livingston v.
Roosevelt, 4 Johns. 251.1 If he did have notice, the transaction
is deemed mak~ftde on his part, and held to be a&iiullity. Donavan v. Dymond, 3 Woods, 141; Ootzhausem v. Judd,43 Wis.-213.
IL The judgment on the plea in abatement sustaining the
attachment and overruling the plea was conclusive evidence
of fraud on Rummel's part in executing and delivering the
mortgage under which the interplead6rs claim title, as against
the interpleaders who had become parties to the cause and
had-interpleaded therein prior to the trial of the plea in abatement. The interpleaders became by their interplea. parties to
the cause, and were parties and privies in interest with Rumme, their grantor and defendant in the cause. Rev. Stat.
Missouri, ยง 449: "_Any person claiming property, money,
effects, or credits attached, may interplead in thle case, verifying the same by affidavit, and issues may be made upon such
interplea, and shall be tried as like issues between plaintiff and
defendant, and without any unnecessary delay." See as to
I S. C. 4 Am. Dec. 273.

2

S. C. 8 Am. Dec. 293.

RTtISKAMP v. MOLINE WAGON CO.
Opinion of the Court.

interplea under this statute: Richardson v. -Jones,16 Missouri,
177; 1ichardson v. WVatson, 23 Missouri, 34; Brennan v.
O'Driscol,.33 Missouri, 372; Ladd v. Couzins, 35 Missouri,
513; State v. Iangdon, 57 Missouri, 353; 3IcEofatrick v. A acauley, 15 Missouri App. 102; Worl v. Vette, 1[ Missouri App.
36. See, also, Frenchl v. SaZe, 60 Mississippi, 516; Prown v.
-Dudle
9, 33 N. H. 511; Bigelow on .Estoppel, 131, 132, 133.
And (as exception to the general rule) that judgment against
the principal is conclusive on the surety. StovaUi v. Banks, 10
Wall. 583; Stoops v. Yittlem, 1 Missouri App. 420; Strong v.
Ins. Co. 62 Missouri; 289. And as to status of party in interest,
though not party to the record. Wood v. Ensel, 63 Missouri,
193.
M . Jusrcn. BLAT HFoRD, after stating the case as reported
above, delivered the opinion of the court.

Although the transaction between Rummel and Huiskamp
Brothers may have been the subject of the trial on the plea in
abatement, we are of opinion that the evidence in question was
improperly admitted. In order to invalidate the mortgage of
Rummel to Huiskamp Brothers it must have been made with
the intent, on the part of lRummel, t hinder and delay his other
creditors, and Huiskamp Brothers must have accepted it with
the intent of assisting Rummel to hinder and delay his other
creditors. A debtor in failing circumstances having the right to
prefer a creditoi, if the preferred creditor has a bonaXde debt,
and takes a mortgage with the intent of securing such debt, and
not with the purpose of aiding the debtor to hinder and delay
other creditors, the mortgage is valid, ven though the mortgagee knows that the debtor is insolvent and that the debtor's intention is to hinder and delay other creditors. It was necessary,
therefore, for the plaintiff, on the trial of the issue with the interpleaders, to make proof of the unlawful intent of Rummel
in making the mortgage, irrespective of any intent of Huiskamp Brothers in accepting it. Such proof could not be made
as against the interpleaders, in view of what the evidence
which they offered tended to show, by proving that. the issue

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

as to the intent of Rummel had been tried and found against
him in the trial on his plea of abatement. That was an issue
to which the intepleaders were not parties, and the record of
its trial was wholly inadmissible as against the interpleaders.
The bill of exceptions states that the papers were admitted to
show "that the conveyance and transfer of the stock of merchandise in controversy to the interpleaders was fraudulent on
the part of Jacob Rummel." The interpleaders were not par-.
ties to the proceedings, did ndt appear in them, did not control
them, and cannot be affected by them. For this error there
must be a new trial; but, as there were other pats of the
charge of the court, and refusals of the court to charge as
requested by the interpleaders, which were excepted to, and
which we think were erroneous, and which may recur upon a
new trial, it seems proper to consider them.
The following portion of the charge of the court was excepted to: "But if no legal dissolution of the partnership took
place in January, 1878, or since, and the partners continued to
hold the property in controversy as partnership property,
bought, sold, and advertised it as firm property, such property
remained partnership property, -so far as creditors are concerned, who knew nothing of the division and who trusted the
firm. Under the view of the case last presented you will h~ve
to determine whether there was a dissolution of the partnership. As already stated, it is an undisputed fact, that, up to
January, 1878, a partnership between Rnmel and Cutler did
exist; that that partnership dealt in 'general merchandise, including farming implements, wagons, etc., and that dealings
prior to that time were had between the Moline Wagon Company and the firni of 'Rummel & Son. The Moline Wagon
Company had a right to presume that the persons once composing a firm, and who continued doing business under the
firm name, are still partners, and that the partnership continues
to exist until notice of a dissolution was given. No agreement
or understanding between the partners - no division of the
property of the firm - can relieve either the firm or the partners of their legal liability as to creditors who extend credit to
the firm, nor are creditors who extend credit to the firm bound

HFUISKAI3P v; MOLINE WAGON CO.
Opinion of the Court.

to regard public rumors, even if they heard them, if the partners continue the partnership' name'and avail themselves of the
partnership credit. You are, therefore, instructed that the
partnership between IRummel. and Cutler dxisting in 1878 continued to exist up to the time'of the creation of the debts sued
on by the Mvfoline Wagon Company, unless public notice of the
dissolution of the partnership was given, or actual notice of
such dissolution was brought home, to the IMfoline Wagon
Company. If, under this view of the law, you shall find, from
the evidence, that plaintiff, the Moline Wagon Company, gave,
credit to the firm of Runnfiel & Son, composed of Rummel and
Cutler, then the firm and each of the partners are liable for the
debt thus contracted. All of the assets of the partnership'
both merchandise, notes, and accounts, as well as all wages and
property of the partnership which Cutler" [Rummel?] "may
have handled in his division of the Dartnership, as well as all
notes and accounts which Cutler may have taken, together.
with all property of the partners, in case of insufficiency of partnership assets, are liable for debts created by the partnership,
If you shall find that the partnership once, existing between.
Rummel and Cutler had not been dissolved, and the property
in dispute to be partnership property, then Rummel could not
take such partnership property and pay an individual debt
with it, such as Huiskamp Brothers claim to have, and the.
mortgage read in evidence, given them, is void as against
creditors of the firm."
In connection with this portion of the charge, the interpleaders, requested the court to give the following instructions
to the jury:
"3. If the jury find, from the evidence, that IRummel and
Cutler led Auiskamp Brothers to believe that the goods
belonged to Rummel, and they accepted the mortgage and
took the goods under such belief, then they are entitled to.thesame rights, by virtue of the mortgage and their possession,
as if the goods actually belQnged to Rummel at the time the
mortgage was made, and when they took possession of the
goods."
"4. If the jury find, that, as between Rummel and Cutler, the
VOL. cxxi-21

.322 -"

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

OpiniQn' df the Court.

goods belonged to lummql at the, time he made the mortgage
and .Huiskamp Byothers took possession of the same, then the
interpleaders are entitled to recover, although, as to the plaintiffs in this case, the firm of Rummel & Son. was in existence
by, reason of -the fact that the plaintiffs had never been noti-.
fled of any change of. the firm of R.ummel & Son. In such
case, Rummel & Son would be liable to the plaintiffs, but the
plaintiffs would have no lien on the stock of goods, and Huiskamp Brothers could acquire title thereto by a valid mortgage
from lRummel."
"5. There is a.difference between the dissolution of a firm
and the settlement of the accounts of the partners between
themselves and the firm. 'A partnership may be dissolved and
the proper'y divided in part, leaving the settlement of the.
accounts betweea the partners to be effected in'the future ;"
land; in this case, if the firm of Rummel & Son was dissolved
in1.819, and Rummel took the stock of merchandise, with the
consent.of his copartner, and was to be charged therewith,,
,then from that time, as between Rummel and Cutler, the former would be the owner of the goods, and could niake a valid
mortgage of the same in his own name."
"7. The test of a partnership,as between the partners, is the
sharing of, the profits and the losses of the business; and, in
this' case, if, after January 18, 1878, Cutler was not to share
the profits and losses of the store business, but Runmel alone
'was to have such profits and bear such losses, then after that
time,, as between themselves, they were not partners in fact.
If they should lead others to believe that they were partners,.
then they would be liable to whoever acted on such belief and
gave them credit. Such creditors would not, however, have a
lien on the propery belonging to one of the partners, as between themselvgs, and could not claim the same from a party
who, in good faith, for value, took such property from the
partner really owning it."
The court refused to give these instructions, and to its
action in respect to each the interpleaders excepted.
The substance of 'the concluding sentence of the portion of
the charge. last above recited is, that, even though the partner-

HUISKAMIP v. M1OLINE WAGON CO.
Opinion of the Court.

ship between iummel and Cutler was not dissolved, and the
property continued to be partnership property, it. was not' in
the powe "of Rummel, even with the consent of Cutler, to
take any of such property and pay with it the individual debt
of lRummel to' Huiskamp Brothers, and, therefore, the mortgage to them was void, as against the plaintiff. The plaintiff
had introduqed testimony on the trial'tending to show that
there was no dissolution of the firm of Rummel & Son, nor
any division of the firm property, iii January, 188, or afterwards; and the instruction referred to was based upon the
view that the jury might find that the partnership was never
dissolved, and its property never divided. But the instruction
was contrary to the ruliig in the case of .itzipatiek y- Plannagan, 106 U. S. 648, 654, where this court, speaking by Mr..
Justice Matthews, said: "The legal right of a partnership
creditor to subject the partnership property to the payment of
his. debt consists simply in the right to reduce his claim to
judgment, and to sell the goods of his debtors on execution.
-His right to appropriate the partnership property specifically
to the payment of his debt, inequity, in preference to creditors of an individual partner, is derived through the otlier
partner, whose original right it is to have the partnership
assets applied to the payment of partnership obligations.
And this equity of the creditor subsists as long as that of the
partner, through which it is derived, remains; that is, so long
as the partner himself, in the language of this court in Case
v. Beauregard,99 U. S. 119, 125, 'retains an interest in the
firm assets, as a partner, a court of equity will allow the creditors of the firm to avail themselves of his -equity, and enforce,
th~rough it, the application of those assets primarily to payment of the debts due them, whenever the property comes
under its administration.'"
It follows, from this view, that, even though the partnership of -Rummel& Son was not dissolved, iRummel had the
right, with the consent of Cutler, to appropriate the property
to the payment of his individual debt to Huiskamp Brothers,
because the plaintiff, at the time the mortgage was made by
Rummel to Huiskamp Brothers, had no specific lien upon the

824

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opiuion of the Court.

property, and there was no trust impressed upon it at that
time, which could be enforced by the plaintiff. It was only
necessary that the disposition of the property should have been
1otaftde on the part of both parties, and Without any intent
to hinder. ,or delay the plaintiff. flowe v. lawrence, 9 Cush.
(Mass.) 553,1 and cases there cited; 1ocke v. Zewis, 1 4 Mass. 1.
It was also error in the court to refuse to charge as requested in the 4th prayer of the interpleaders, that if, as betveenl ummel and Cutler, the goods belonged to Rummel, the
interpleaders were entitled to recover, although the plaintiff
.had not been notified of any change in the firm of Rummel
& Son; and error to charge as it did, the converse of this
,proposition. The fact of notice or no notice to the plaintiff
could.hnot affect the question in issue, so long as the' plaintiff
had acquired no lien on the goods prior to the mortgage by
Rummel to-the interpleaders, and that mortgage was made in
good faith.
It was also error in the court to retuse to charge, as requested in the 5th prayer of the interpleaders, that "if the
firm of Rummel & Son was dissolved in 1879, and Rummel
took the stock of merchandise, with the consent of his copartner, and was to be charged therewith, then, from that time, as
between Rummel and Cutler, the former would be the owner
of the goods, and could make a valid mortgage of the same
in his own name." The proposition involved in this request
presupposes, of course, that the transaction between iRummel
and Cutler was made in good faith, and in that view, the instruction requested was in accordance with the rule laid down
by this court in Case v. Beauregard and approved in Fitzyatrlek v. Flannagan,to the effect, that "if, before the interposition of the court is asked, the property has ceased to
belong to the partnership, if by a bonafide transfer it has become the several property either of one partner or of a third
pelson, the equities of the partners are extinguished, and consequently the derivative equities of the creditors are at an end."
See also Howe v. Lawrerce " and -Locke v. Lewis, (above cited).
The judgment of the Circuit Courtis reversed, and the case
is remanded,with a direction to award a new trial.
1 S.

0. 57 Am. Dec. 68.

