MERCHANTS' INS. CO. v.. ALLEN.
Counsel for Parties.

MEROHANTS' INSURAIE OOMPANTY v. AILLEN.
NEROHANTS' INSTURAICE O0MPANTY v. WEEKS.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOrlTHE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued March 17,18, 1887.-Decided March 28, 1887.

While a vessel was in transit on a voyage from Liverpool to New Orleans,
its home .port, a policy was taken out, "to. navigate the Atlantic Ocean
between Europe and America, and to be.covered in port and at sea,"
these words being written in the printed blank; and the insurers knowing the home port of the vessel. The policy also contained in print the
words-,' Warranted by the assured not to use port or ports in Eastern
Mexico, Texas, nor Yucatan, nor anchorage thereof during the continuauce of this insurance." The vessel completed the voyage to New Orleans, went thence to Ship Island for a return cargo to Liverpool, and
was lost from peril of the sea in the Gulf of Mexico, qn the way from
Ship Island to Liverpool Held, that there was no conflict b6tween the
written and the printed parts of the policy; that the insurers contemplated that the vessel would navigate the Gulf of Mexico, except the
designated ports, and that the policy covered the vessel at the time of
the loss.
The ultimate disputed fact to be established in a suit in admiralty upon a
marine policy of insurance being the seaworthiness or unseaworthiness
of the vessel, it was no error in the Circuit Court at the trial to refuse to
find the evidence from which this ultimate fact was deduced.
The court discountenances attempts by counsel in preparing bills of exception in admiralty causes to have the cause retried here on the evidence.
An over-insurance of cargo is not a breach of warranty by the owner of
the vessel not to iusure his interest in the vessel beyond a stipulated
amount: and the over-insurance in this case, if any, does not tend to
establish fraud in the loss of the vessel.
Whether, since the act of February 16, 1875, new testimony can be taken
after an appeal in admiralty to this court, or amendments to the pleadings allowed, is not decided.

THESE were appeals from decrees in admiralty. The case is
stated in the opinion of the court.
X9. osepyi P. .o1&nor for appellant. .ArP. Mares 1Y
H rnor was with }im pn the brief.
.

,fr.
J. 1R. Beckwith for appellee Allen.

OCTOB3ER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

-Y. Richard H. Browne for appellee Weeks.

_2P. CMarles

B. Singleton was with him on the brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinibn of the

Court.
These appeals present the same questions, and may be considered together. The suits were brought on two policies of
insurance, one insuring the interest of George D. Allen and
theother that of Silas Weeks, in the ship Orient, from April
15, 1882, to April 15i 1883, "to navigate the Atlantic Ocean
between Europe and America, and to be covered in port and
at sea." At the time the policy was issued the ship was on the
Atlantic Ocean' bound on a voyagd from Liverpool, England, to
New Orleans, Louisiana, laden with a general cargo. The
copnpany knew of this when it executed and delivered the
policy, and insured the vessel lost or not lost. New Qrleans
was the home port of the ship, and there the homd office of
the company was situated. All parties knew that the ship was
sailing to and from that port. The policy also contained this
clause : '
"Warranted by the assured not to use port or ports in
Eastern ]I'exico, Texas, nor Yucatan, nor anchorage thereof,
during the continuance of this insurance, nor ports in West
India Islands between J'uly 15th and October 15th; nor ports
on the northeast coast of Great Britain beyond the Thames,
nor ports on the continent of Europe, north of Antwerp,
between November 1st and M arch 1st."
This warranty is part of the prinied portion of the policy,
but the portion describing what the insurance covered is in
writirig
The ship arrived safely in New Orleans on her voyage from
Liverpool, and, after unloading, proceeded to Ship Island,
where she took on a cargo of timber for Liverpool, and while
onf her voyage to that port she was struck by a cyclone about
one hurdred miles out in the Gulf of Mexico and wrecked.
The first question presented by the appellants is whether
the insurance covered the ship while in the Gulf of Mexico.
This depends.on the meaning of the language of the policy.

MERCHANTS'

INS. CO. v. ALLEN.

Opinion of the Court.

construed in the light of the circumstances which surrounded
the parties at the time of its execution. The evident purpose
was to insure a New Orleans ship engaged in the Atlantic
trade between Europe and America for a year, both at sea
and in port. At the time the insurance was effected she was
on a voyage between Liverpool and New Orleans, and all
parties knew that the business in which she was engaged took
her in: and out of the last named poit. That was her home port,
and that was where the insurance company had its own office.
That the navigition of the Gulf was contemplated.during the
life of the policy is ihown by the fact that certain of its ports
were 6xcluded from the risks the company assumed. This
fairly implies that all others might be used, and as the ship
was to be insured all the time during the year if she was
employed in navigating the Atlantic betweei Europe and
America, whether at sea or in port, it is evident the parties
intended to cover her by the policy while sailing from port to
port in that general trade. New -Orleans is a leading American port in that trade. To get to. and from it ships must"
navigate the Gulf of Mexico.
No one can doubt that the poli6jy would cover at all times
during the year a voyage to all the ports of Great Britain
except those northeast of the. Thames, and to all ports on the
continent of Europe-. north of the Mediterranean as far as
Antwerp, and elsewhere on the northern coast between March
and November. Yet in doing so the ship would have to sail
in waters other than those of the Atlantic Ocean. Taking
the whole policy together, we cannot doubt it was the initention of the company to cover the ship while engaged in the
Atlantic trade between ports in Europe and America other
than those specially warranted against. Whether this would
include ports east of Gibraltar it is unnecessary now to"
decide.
It is true that, if there is a conflict between the written
words of a policy and those that are printed, the writing will
prevail, but, if possible, the writing and the print are to be
construed so that both can stand. Here we think it cler that
the written clauses, when construed in connection with those

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

that are in print, have the effect of describing the trade in
which the vessel was to be employed rather than confining
her navigation exclusively to the waters of the Atlantic Ocean.
If it were otherwise, while the ship would be insured in port
and on the ocean, she would be uninsured while performing
that part of her voyage from the ocean to the port and fr6m
the port to the ocean. Such a condition of things will never
be presumed in the absence of the most convincing proof to
the contrary.
We have no hesitation -indeciding that the insurance covered.the ship at the time of her loss.
This disposes of all the questions which arise on the finding
of facts.
The principal controversy in the case was as to the seaworthiness of the vessel. The court has foind as a fact that'
she was seaworthy when she left Liverpool on the voyage
during which the policies were issued, and also when she sailed'
from Ship Island on the voyage'in which she was lost... To
these questions the testimony was largely directed,'and it was
to some extent conflicting. At the trial the court was asked
to find as follows:
"The ship Orient, prior to her departure on her last voyage,
on 1st August, 1882, was run aground on Ship Island bar,
where she remained for three days and two nights in bad and
squally weather, 'rolling and pouhding heavily,' and while on
the bar, and after coming off, 'drew and continued to draw
four inches of water per hour iintil the final wreck, and that
when she was thrown upon her beaim ends by the force of the'
storm she was prevented from righting herself by the large
amount of water which had leaked into her hold, and hence
the cutting away of her masts was of no avail, and the said
leak was the direct cause of her loss, and she was unseaworthy
when she started on her last voyage;" and "that when the
ship Orient was hauled off the bar at Ship Island where 'she
had been aground as aforesaid, she leaked four inches .of
water per hour, and said 'leak did not diminish from said
time, 3d August, 1882, until 5th September, 1882, when she
went to' sea on her last voyage, nor intil she was finally

MERCHA TS' INS. CO. v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court

wrecked, and said leak could have been discovered only by
unloading said vessel and taking her to New Orleans-and putting her in the dry-dock, which was not done, and no other
precaution was taken to ascertain whether said vessel was
injured by havino' been aground, or to asceitain the leak or
leaks, save by a cursory examination of her bottom by a diver,
without taking 'her out of the water; " and "that the ship
Orient was knowingly sent to sea by the assured in an unsea-worthy state and in an unfit condition, which necessarily increased the dafiger which led to her loss."
This was refused, and an exception taken. To present
the question of the propriety of that refusal to this court, a
bill of exceptions was prepared, containing the entire evidence
in the cause, which was signed by the circuit judge with the
remark that "this bill is claimed l y the respondent under the
authority of The Franeis Might, 105 U. S. 381, considering
.which case the court does not feel at liberty.to deny the bill."
In the case of [The FTranois TIV9ight it was ruled, p. 381,
and, as we are satisfied, correctly, "that if the Circuit Couh
neglects or refuses, on request, to make a finding one way or
the other, on a question of fact material to the determination
of the cause, when evidence has been adduced on .the subject,
an exception to such refusal, taken in time and properly presented by a bill of exceptions, may be considered here on
appeal. So, too, if the court, against remonstrance, finds a
material fact which is not supported by any evidence whatever, and an exception is taken, a bill of exceptions may be
used to bring up for review, the ruling in that particular. In
the one case, a refusal to find would be equivalent to a ruling
that the fact was immaterial; and, in the other, that there
was some evidence to prove .what is found, when in truth
there was none." "But," it was added, "this rule does not
apply to mere incidental facts which only amount to evidence
bearing on the ultimate facts of the case. Questions depending on the weight of evidence are, under the law as it now
stands, to be conclusively settled below; and the fact in respedt to which such an exception may be taken must be one
of the material and ultimate facts on which the correct determination of the cause depends."

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

In the present case, the ultimate fact to be .proved was the
-seaworthiness of the vessel. That ultimate fact has been
found. What the company wanted- to have incorporated in
the findings were the "mere incidental' facts"' which only
amounted to evidence from which the material fact 6f seaworthiness or unseaworthiness was to be ascertained. This
was properly refused.
Another bill of exceptions was taken, because, the court
made the following findings, when there was no evidence
whatever to support them:
"Fourth. That when said risk was taken by the said defendant and said policy executed and delivered the said ship
-Orient was on the Atlantic Ocean, bound on a voyage from
the port of Liverpool to the port of New Orleans, in the
United States, laden with a general cargo; that the defendant
at the time of the execution and delivery of the policy of
insurance was well aware of that fact, and had notice aid
knowledge that the said vessel was prosecuting said voyage,,
bound to the port of. New Orleans, and insured the vessel, lost'
or not lost.
"Fifth. That the port of New Orleans was the home port
of the said Orient and was the domicil of the underwriting
company, and that afl parties -knew that the'ship was sailing
to and from that port, and when the policy sued on was
issued it was the intention of the assured and the underwriters
that the said policy was to cover risks while said ship was
navigating the- Gulf of Mexico, except excluded ports."
"Twenty-first. That at the time said ship Orient was
wrecked and destroyed she was under the protection of said
policy of insurance, and was- lost and wrecked by a peril of,
the sea insured against."
So far from there being no evidence to support these findings, the record is full of facts from which the conclusions
reached by the court might be drawn. The apparent purpose
of counsel in preparing the bills of exceptions was to have the
whole case retried here on all the evidence. That this cannot
be done, since the act of 1875, has long been settled. The
Abbotsford, 98 U. S.440; The Benefactor, 102 U. S: 214; The
Adriatic, 103 U. S.730; The Annie Lindey, 104 U. S. 187.,

MI.,RCHANTS' .ENS. CO. v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

The case as tried below -is reported as Baker v. _Merchants'
)Wut. Ins. Co., 16 Fed. Rep. 916, where the discussion upon
the effect of the evidence, will be found.
It only remains to consider an application which has been
made in this court for leave to amend the pleadings and introduce new testimony. At an early day in the present term
leave was granted the appellants on their motion to take
additional testimony. Under this leave depositions have been
taken which are now on file. Their purpose is to show an
over-insurance by the owners of the vessel on the cargo, which
was also owned by them in whole 6r in part. The pleadings,
as they stood in the court below, present' no issue to which
such testimony is applicable, and the appellants now ask leave
to amend their answers so as to let it in.
Without determining whether, since the act of February 16,
1875, "to facilitate the disposition of 'cases in the Supreme
Court, and for other purposes," (c. 77,18 Stat. 315,) new testimony can, under any circumstances, be taken after an appeal
iii admiralty to this court, or amendments to the pleadings
allowed, and, if so, what would be the proper practice to give
effect to an application for that purpose, we deny this motion.
An over-insurance of the cargo is not a breach of a warranty by
the owner of the vessel not to insure his interest in the vessel
beyond a certain-amount, and the new testimony, standing by
itself, fails to make out such a case of over-insurance on the
cargo as would tend to establish a fraudulent loss of the vessel.
The over-insurance of the cargo, if any there was, grew out
of an insurance by'Baring Brothers & Co., in London, for
their protection as acceptors of drafts drawn by the captain
on them to meet disbursements in the purchase of the timber
which composed the cargo; at least that is the fair inference
from the testimony.
Te decree in each of the cases is aflrmed.

