ESTES v. GUNTER.
Opinion of the Court.

ESTES v. GUNTER.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Submitted March 28, 1887. -Decided

April 4,1887.

G being embarrassed, assigned his property, amounting in value to more
than 55000, to S for tile benefit of his creditors, with preferences in favor
of E to the amount of $10,000. B, an uupreferred creditor, sued out a
writ of attachment for $3000, which was followed by similar writs on
behalf of other creditors. B flied a bill in equity against G and S and B,
and other attaching creditors, to enjoin a sale under the attachments and
to have the assignment declared valid; but during the progress of the suit
dismissed the suit as to the other attaching creditors. The bill was dismissed on the ground that the assignment was made to hinder and delay
creditors. B appealed to tis court. Ona motion to dismiss on the ground
that the claim of B was not sufficient to give this court jurisdiction:
Held, that the court had jurisdiction, the suit being brought not simply
to defeat B's attachment, but to establish the assignment and make it
available for E's benefit.

MOTION to dismiss.
court.

The case is stated in the opinion of the

M r. Edward 3faye8 and -Yr.H. X. SuZlivan for the motion.
.Mr. Zuke

. WIright opposing.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a motion to dismiss, on the ground that the value in
dispute does not exceed ;fve thousand dollars. The record
shows this: On the 25th of March, 1882, S. H. Gunter, a merchant doing business at Sardis, Mississippi, being unable to
pay his debts in fall, made an assignment of his stock of goods

on hand, and the debts due him by note and book account, to
S. -. Spain, for the benefit of his creditors,' but with a preference in favor of Estes & Doan to the amount of $10,000 on a
debt due them of $12,000. or over. Other creditors to a much
smaller amount in the aggregate were also preferred. The

181

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

stock of goods was valued at over $12,000, and the notes and
accounts were .nominally more than $25,000.
A day or two after the assignment Bickham & Moore and
three other firms sued out writs of'attachment on their respective
claims against Gunter,'and s6ized'the assigned property. Tho
attachment in favor of Bickham & Moore was first issued for
a debt of $3000, and levied on a part only of the stock. The
other creditors levied on that taken under' this prior attachment, 'and also on the rest. The ground of the attachments
-was, that the assignment had been, made to hinder and delay
creditors, and was therefore void.
While the property taken, under these attachments was' in
the hands of the. sheriff, Eites & Doan', on the 17th of April,
brought this suit against Spain, the assignee, the several £ttaching creditors, and the other preferred creditors, to enjoin
a sale of the property- under the attachments, to have a receiver appointed to take charge of the property and: convert it
into money pending the suit, to have the assignment declared
valid with its preferences, and for a payment to Estes & Doan
of the $10,000 to which they were entitled according to its
teihns. To- this bill noneof the defendants appeared, except
the attaching creditors, and they filed a joint answer, in which
they set up the fraudulent character of the assignment. Spain,
the assignee, was served with process, but he did not appear,
and as tQ him the' bill was taken for confessed..
lTponthe filing of the bill the injunction prayed for was
granted, and a receiver -appointed to take charge of the property and convert it into money, the proceeds to abide the
event of the suit. From an affidavit of that receiver, filed in
support of our jurisdiction,,it appears that he has already realized more than $5300, which has been paid into the registry
of the court, or for which he is accountable.
In the progress of the cause Estes & Doan voluntarily-dismissed the bill as to.all the attaching creditors except Bickham
& Moore, and.from that time on they and Spain, the assignee,
were the only defendants ii court. On the 3d of March, 1884,
the court, after a hearing of the cause, "being satisfied that
complainants are not entitled to the relief sought," dissolved

ESTES v. GUNTER.Opinion of the Court.

the injunction and dismissed the bill. From the opinion of
the court, which has been sent up with the transcript, it appears that this was done because the evidence showed that the
assignment was made to hinder and delay creditors, and was,
therefore, void. This was, of course, equivalent to a decision
that Estes & Doan could not be paid their preferred debt out
of the fund in court in accordance with the terms of the assigmuent. From that decree this appeal was taken.
The suit was brought, not only to defeat the attachment of
Bickham & Moore, but to establish the assignment and make
it available for the payment of the preference in favor of Estes
& Doan to the the extent of $10,000, if the assigned property
produced that sum. It has produced $5300, and there is
nothing to show that more may not be*realized from it hereafter. Spain, the trustee, is a party to the suit, and the effect
of the decree is not only to prevent him from paying to Estes
& Doan the amount claimed by Bickham & M oore under their
attachment, but anything besides, The decree is not that
]3ickham & Moore be paid their debt, but -that nothing be
paid to the'complainants. The distribution of the fund in
court is to be made hereafter as. law and justice may require.
The effect of what has been done is to defeat the.claim which
Estes & Doan have set up in their bill, and, so far as now appears, it matters not to them what disposition is made of the
assigned property. That can be determined hereafter when
the rights of other parties shall be presented in proper form.
The case is, therefore, in principle, like -hedd v. Thomas, 17
Row. 9, 3; .MWare Ctom2pany v. Hoftmnan, 101 U. S. 112; The
Connemara,103 U. S. 751; The -Mamie,105 U. S. 773 ; D.vies
v. Corbin, 112 U. S. 36.
The motio to. dismiss is overruled.

