OCTOBER TERM1, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

appeared in the cause; and for like reasons Frost and wife
cannot maintain their cross bill.
Decree 'reversed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court,
wiah directions to di.smiss the apellee's bill, and the affellants' cross bill, witlhout prejudice, the appellee to pay the
costs in this court and in the Circuit Court.

METROPOLITAN RAILROAD COMPANY v. MOORE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued April 21,1887.-Decided May 2,1887.
An appeal lies to the general term of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia from a denial by that court in special term of a motion for a
new trial, made on the ground that the verdict was against the weight
of evidence; but the legal discretion of that court respecting the disposition of such a motion is not reviewable in this court.
Stewart v. Elliott, 2 Mackey, 307, overruled.
When Congress adopts a state system of jurisprudence, and incorporates
it, substantially in the language of the state statute creating it, into the
Federal legislation for the District of Columbia, it must be presumed to
have adopted it as understood in the State of its origin, and not as it
might be affected by previous rules of law, either prevailing in Marylaud,
or recognized in the courts of the District.

Tins was an action at law, brought by the defendant in
error, in the Supreme Court in the District of Columbia,
against the plaintiff in error, to recover damages for personal
iijuries alleged to have been caused by the negligence of the
defendant's servants in the management of its cars while running upon a street railroad in the city of Washington. On
the trial of the cause, and after the testimony for the plaintiff
was closed, the defendant asked the court to instruct the jury
that, upon the testimony offered in behakU of the plaintiff, he
was not entitled to recover. This was refused, and an exception taken. The jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for $5000, on which judgment was rendered. The defendant thereupon filed a motion for a new. trial on the

METROPOLITAN RAILROAD CO. 'v. MOORE.

559

Statement of Facts.

following grounds: 1stj because the verdict was against the
weight of evidence; 2d, because the verdict was against the
instructions of the court; 3d, because the damages awarded
by the jury were excessive; and also upon exceptions taken
at the trial.
The record then showed the following proceedings: "The
motion for a new trial coming on to be heard upon the pleadings, the testimony, and the rulings of th court as set forth
in said pleadings, and in the stenographic report filed herewith and marked Exhibit A, which said report contains all
the testimony in the case and the rulings of the court, the
same is hereby overruled; and from the order of the court
overruling said motion the defendant hereby appeals to the
court in general term. And thereupon the defendant, by its
siid attorney, tenders to the court here its bills of exception
to the rulings of the court on the trial of this case, and prays
that they may be duly signed, sealed, and made a part of the
record now for then, which is done accordingly." The bills
of exception stated the rulings of the court during the progress of the trial with the evidence applicable thereto, and
Exhibit 'A, referred to in the order of the court overruling
the motion for a new trial, set out in full all the testimony in
the case.
The record then showed the proceedings and judgment on
the appeal in the general term, as follows: "Now again come
here as well the plaintiff as the defendant, by their respective
attorneys, whereuponit appearing to the court that the order
of the court below overruling the motion for a new trial on
a case stated, upon the ground that the verdict of the jury
was against the weight of evidence, is not an order from
which an appeal lies to this court, and it also appearing to the
court that the defendant's exceptions to the admissibility of
evidence and to the rulings and instructions of the court were
not well taken, the said appeal is hereby dismissed, and the
motion for a new trial on exceptions is now overruled, and
the judgment of the court is affirmed, with costs." The
defendant below sued out the present writ of error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.

-

Argument for Defendant i Error.

.X'. Nath~aniel Wilson and -31.
plaintiff in error.

Walter ,D. Davidge for

Mr. Arank T. Browning and XrM.William .. .Mattingl for
defendant in error.
An alleged error relied on by the plaintiff in error is that "
the court below, in general term, held that the order of the
Circuit Court overruling its motion for a new trial, "because
the verdict was against the weight of evidence," is not an
order from which an appeal lies to this court.
I Sections 801 and 805 of the Rev. Stat. D. C. provide that
the justice who tries the cause may, in his discretion, entertain a motion to be made on his minutes, to set aside a verdict
and grant a new trial upon exceptions, or for insujflcient
evidence, or for excessive damages, and that when such motion
is heard, an appeal to the general term may be taken from
the decision, in which case a bill of exceptions or case shall be
settled in the usual manner.
An appeal to the general term is not provided for when the
motion for a new trial is based upon any other than these
grounds. All other grounds for a motion for a new trial are
necessarily addressed to the discretion of the court and are not
appealable.
The defendant below abandoned its motion on the ground
of excessive damages and none of the other grounds for a new
trial, specified in the motion, came within the provision of law
granting an appeal.
It is forced now to claim that the insujflient evidence in the
wording.of the law is the same as against the weight of evi.dence.
We submit that there is a marked- difference between the
two. The one looks to the legal sufficiency of the evidence to
justify, the verdict, the other assumes that there was evidence
sufficient in law to warrant the verdict, but that the preponderance of the evidence was against the verdict. In the former case the verdict is properly reviewable by an appellate
court, in the latter not. This court in 12 Pet. 315, fepburn

METROPOLITAN RAILROAD CO. v. MOORE.

561

Opinion of the Court.

v. Dubois, held that after a verdict in favor of either party on
the evidence, he has the right to demand of a court of error
that they look to the evidence only to ascertain whether it
was competent in law to authorize the jury to find the facts
which make out the right of the'party.
The court-below in Stewart v. Elliott, 2 Mackey, 311, reviews
the history of the provisions of our statute and holds in express
terms (p. 315), that the phrase "for insu cient evidence," cannot be construed as authorizing the general term to onsider
whether a verdict below was "contrary to the evidence," or
!'against the weight of evidence."
In the case at bar it appears that the evidence was sufficient,
by the overruling of the demurrer to the evidence, which was
sustained by the general term. The evidence is brief, and a
simple perusal of it would show that the defendant below was
in no way injured by the court holding that it had no jurisdiction of the appeal, on the ground that the verdict was against
the weight of the evidence.
MR. JUSTIOE MLiTTHEws, after stating the case as above re-

ported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The assignment of error relied on, and t6e only one we find
it necessary to consider, is, that the court in general term
refused to entertain the appeal from the action of the court at
special term, overruling the motion for a new trial, so far as it
was based on the ground that the verdict of the jury was
against the weight of evidence, because it was not an order
from which an appeal lies from the special to the general term
of the court.
The opinion of the court, which is sent up with the record,
expressly considei-s, discusses, and decides all the questions
arising on the bills of exception, but no reason is given for that
part of the judgment refusing to consider the appeal so far as
it rested upon the order of the court at special term, overruling the motion for a new trial, hased on the ground that the
verdict of the jury was against the weight of evidence. It
was said in argument at the bar that this was because, a few
-VOL.

CxxU-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

weeks before, in the case of Stewart v. Elliott, 2 Mackey, 307,
decided March 13, 1883, the Supreme Court of the District of
Colmnbia had given a carefully considered opinion concerning
the very point in controversy. It was decided in that case
that the right of appeal on motions for a new trial from the
special to the general term was given only in three cases: 1st,
where the motion is based on exceptions taken during the
progress of the trial; 2d, where the verdict has been rendered
upon insufficient evidence; and 3d, for excessive damages. It
was also decided that a verdict against the weight of evidence
cannot be said to be a verdict upon insufficient evidence; the
term "insufficient evidence," in § 804 of the R1evised Statutes
of the District of Columbia being construed as meaning evidence not sufficient in law to support a verdict. It therefore
held that a -motion for a new trial, because the verdict was
against the weight of evidence, is left by the statute entirely
within the discretion of the judge, at special term trying the
case, and that no appeal lies from his determination, to the
general term.
The sections of the Revised Statutes of the United States
relating to the District of Columbia, affecting the question,
are as follows:
"Sec. 7153. The several general terms and special terms of
the circuit courts, district courts, and criminal courts authorized by law, are declared to be, severally, terms of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; and the judgments,
decrees, sentences, orders, proceedings, and acts of the general
terms, special terms, circuit courts, district 6ourts, and criminal
courts rendered, made, or had, are and shall be deemed judgments, decrees, sentences, orders, proceedings, and acts of the
Supreme Court; but nothing contained in this section shall
affect the right of appeal, as provided by law.
"Sec. 7'2. Any party aggrieved by any order, judgment,
or decree, made or pronounced at any special term, may, if the
same involve the merits .of the action or proceeding, appeal
therefrom to the general term of the Supreme Court, and,
upon such appeal, the general term shall review such order,

METROPOLITAN RAILROAD CO. v. MfOORE.

563

Opinion of the Court.

judgment, or decree, and affirm, revefse, or modify the same,
as shall be just.
"See. 800. Non-enumerated motions in all suits and proceedings at law and in equity shall first be heard and determined at special terms. Suits in equity, not triable by jury,
shall also be heard and determined at special terms. But the
justice holding such special term may, in his discretion, order
any such motion or suit to be heard, in the first instance, at
a general term.
"See. 803. If, upon the trial of a cause, an exception be
taken, it may be reduced to writing at the time, or it may be
entered on the nnutes of the justice and afterward settled in
such manner as may be provided by the rules of the court,
and then stated in writing in a case or bill of exceptions, with
so much of the evidence as may be material to the questions
to be raised, but such case or bill of exceptions need not be
sealed or signed.
"See. 801. The justice who- tries the cause may, in his discretion, entertain a motion, to be made on his minutes, to
set aside a verdict and grant a new trial upon exceptions, or
for insufficient evidence, or for excessive damages; but such
motions shall be 'made at the same term at which the trial
was had.
"See. 805. When such motion is made and heard upon the
minutes, an appeal to the general term may be taken from the
decision, in which case a bill of exceptions or case shall be
settled in the usual manner.
"Sec. 806. A motion for a new trial on a case or 'bill of
exceptions, and an application for judgment on a special verdict, or a verdict' taken subject to the opinion of the court,
shall be heara in the first instance at a general term."
The construction given by the court below to § 804 of
the Revised Statutes is that it does not limit "the range of
reasons for which the new trial might be granted by the
judge who heard the cause;" but that "the only purpose of
the enumeration in the section was to designate the cases in

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

which an appeal might be taken to the general term from
the order of the trial justice refusing a new trial; and this
enumeration constituted an effective limitation of the right
of appeal to the three cases mentioned, viz.; where the motion
has been -urged either "upon, exception8, or for inwfficient
evidence, orfor excessive damages. In no other case was an
appeal to be allowed." Stewart v. Elliot, 2 Mackey, 307, 313.
.But this construction of the statute overlooks the operation
and effect of § 72. By that section an appeal will lie from
the special to the general term from any order, judgment,
6r decree, "if the same involve the merits of the action
or proceeding." Certainly, motions for a new trial upon
grounds other than those recited in § 804 are included 'in
this description. A motion may be made to set aside a
verdict and- grant a new trial on the ground that the verdict
is against law, or against the instructions of the court, or for
newly discovered evidence, or because the amount is less than
it should have been where -the damages are ascertainable by
some fixed rule oflaw, or for misconduct of the jury, or for
fraud practised by the successful party. None of these cases
are specifically recited in § 804, and yet, if we adopt the construction put upon that section by the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, no appeal can be had from the judgment
of a special term in any of them, although they involve the
merits of the action or proceeding as completely as any
of those mentioned in § 804.
- It is the evident purpose and meaning of § 772 to give the
right of appeal from the special to the general term from
every order, judgment, or decree involving the merits of
the adtion or proc eeding. There is nothing in the other
sectiois rdferred to which necessarily limits that right, and
any construction of their language which has that effect is
unLwarrate-. Their object is not to specify the casps in
whi& , ti -actpu of the special term upon motions for a
I'Mw trial amy..be.'reviewed on .Appeal by the general term.
Section 804 by. itself merely provides that the justice who
tries the cauge t special term may, in his discretion, entertain
or refuse to entertain a motion to be made on his minutes to

METROPOLITAN RAILROAD CO. v. MOORE.

565

Opinion of the Court.

set aside a verdict and grant a new trial fox the grounds
therein mentioned. If he entertains the motion, and hears
it, then by § 805 an appeal will lie to the general term from
the decision. The form of that appeal is by means of a bill
of exceptions or case, which shall be settled in the usual
manner. Of course, if the ground of the motion for a new
trial is for insufficient evidence, or for excessive damages, the
bill of exceptions or case for the appeal must contain a statement of all the evidence offered and received on the trial,
because it must bring to the general term all the material
necessary to enable it to act upon the appeal precisely as the
judge at special term acted upon the motion. If, however,
the judge at special term exercises his discretion under § 804,
by refusing to entertain the motion for a new trial to be
made on his minutes, then the party moving for the new trial
may, under § 806, predicate his motion on a case or bill of
exceptions, containing, as in the former instance, all the
evidence, and in that. event the motion shall be -heard in the
first instance at a general term.
The proper conclusion in reference to motions for a new
trial upon other grounds than those specified in § 801 would
seem to be, that in such cases the justice .who tries the cause
would have no discretion in reference to, entertaining them,
but is required to consider them in the first instance, of
course with the right of appeal, to the general term from
his action, as provided by § 772. Section 806 mentions the
cases in which the hearing on a motion for a new trial shall
be heard in the first instance at a general term. Section 804
provides for cases in which, according to the discretion of the
justice who tries the cause, the hearing of the motion may
be had before him on his minutes in the first instance at a
specal term. Section 70 gives authority to the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia in general term, to "determine by rule what motions shall be ,heard at a special term,
as non-enumerated motions, and what motion:-shall be heard
at a general term in the first instance." This power of discrimination by rule is, of course, subject to the statutory
provisions contained in §§ 800, 804, 805 and 806, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

in every instance the order, judgment, or decree, made or
pronounced at any special term, if it involve the merits of
the action or proceeding, may be the subject of an appeal to
the. general term of- the Supreme Court by virtue of § '772.
Even in cases of motions not involving the merits, such as
non-enumerated motions, which by § 800 it is said "sha lL first
be heard and determined at special terms," it is also provided
by the same section that "the justice holding such special
term may, in his discretion, order any such motion or suit to
be heard in the first instance at a general term."
It may be said that this construction of § 772 renders § 805
superfluous. If the former section, it may be said, secures the
right of appeal from every order involving the merits, there
was no necessity in § 805 for expressly granting it in the cases
therein referred to. If this were true, it could not, we think,
limit the operation of § M72. It must have effect according to
its express terms and evident meaning; and a reason may be
found for the introduction of § 805, as intended, by way of
more abundant caution, to exclude a possible contrary conalusmon, or to show that the appeal must be upon a bill of exceptions or a case.
If § 805 is construed to limit the appeal to the general term
to the particular cases nfientioned in § 804, it may with equal
force be contended that tlhe enumeration of the particular motions, which by the latter. section the7 justice, at special term, is
permitted to entertain, by a necessary implication denies to him
the power to consider motions for a new trial based on any
other reasons. The language of ihe section is, that the judge,
at special term, may, in his discretion, entertain the motions
therein specified. No other section professes to confer power
upon the court, at special term, to consider motions for a now
trial of any other description. -Can it thence be inferred that
no such power exists? That conclusion is rejected by common
consent. HIow, then, can it be said that § 805, which.recognizes the right of appeal only in the cases specified in § 804, .by
implication denies it in every other ? It might miore plausibly
be argued that all other cases, not included in §§ 804 and 805,
are within the provisions of § 806, and may, in the first in--

METROPOLITAN RAILROAD CO. v. MOORE.

567

Opinion of the Court.

stance, be heard at a general term in the form 6f a case or bill
of exceptions, containing the necessary predicates for their support. But the only consistent interpretation to be placed on
the whole enactment is that which secures the right of appeal,
under § 772, from the special to the general term, in every case
of; an order, judgment, or decree which involves the merits of
the action or proceeding, and which is not otherwise specially
provided for. The object of §§ 804 and 805 seems to be to
provide for a special class of cases, in which discretion is given
to the justice, at special term, to hear or to refuse to hear
motions for a new trial, providing, in the first case, for an
appeal in the usual manner, and in the latter case, when he
refuses to hear the motion, leaving it to be heard, under § 806,
on a case or bill of exceptions, in the first instance, in the general term.
Upon this view of these statutory provisions, it is immaterial
whether the motion for a new trial made in this case, so far as
it was based on the ground that the verdict was against the
weight of evidence, is embraced by § 804 as a motion to set
aside a verdict for insufficient evidence; because, if it is not,
still, as we have seen, an appeal lies by virtue of § 772 from
the order of the special term denying the motion, because it
involved the merits of the action. Nevertheless, we are of the
opinion that the proper construction of § 804 embraces a motion
for a new trial on the ground that the verdict is against the
weight of evidence, as being within the terms "for insufficient
evidence," as used in that section.
Upon this point, the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in Stewart v. Elliott, 2 Mackey, 307, 315, said: "By a loose
use of language, it may be said that a verdict ' contrary to the
evidence,' or 'against the weight of evidence,' was rendered.
upon Iinsufficient evidence;' and, on the other hand, that a verdict upon insufficient evidence is one contrary to or against the
weight of evidence. But we are dealing with legal expressions
in their technical meaning; and it is familiar to all lawyers that
evidence offered to a jury in a cause has a twofold sufficiency,
i.e., sufficiency in law and sufficiency in fact; that of its sufficiency in law the court is the exclusive judge; its sufficiency in

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

fact is a question exclusively for the jury. The court, in considering the legal sufficiency of the evidence to sustain the case
of a suitor, or to establish any particular fact essential to his
recovery, must examine the proof with respect to its quality
and quantity; and this determination by the court is a question
of law. And if the court can see that the proof offered is of
such a character and volume that it might well satisfy a
rational mind of the truth of the position it is introduced to
maintain, then it is declarea to be legally suzfient for the purpose; and it must be submitted to the jury, who are the exclusive judges of its sufficiency infact, whether others may differ
from them in their conclusions or not. As expressed in a
recent decision in Maryland, following numerous familiar cases
' if no evidence is offered, or if it is not such as one in reason
and fairness could find from it the fact sought to be established, the court ought not to submit the finding of such fact to
the jury.' G-rifflt v. Difenderfer,50 Maryland, 466. To the
same effect is the language in 40 NS.Y. Superior Ct. (S Jones
& Spencer) 181, -Halpin v. Third Avenue Railroad Go. : ' If
there is no conflict in the evidence, its sufficiency is no longer
a question of fact, but, becomes a question of law to be determined by the court.' It is to this legal sufflciency that the
statute refers when it authorizes the appeal to this court, and
to that inquiry alone have we the right to address an examination."
The court in the same opinion uses the following language
(p. 314): "There is not the .slightest desire upon our part to
circumscribe the methods by which, according to the long
established practice in this jurisdiction, the losing party may
apply in the trial court for a new trial. The courts of justice
would lose much of their value unless this mode of redress
against unjust verdicts was tenaciously preserved by the judge,
to be applied in his discretion where he believed the jury have
done manifest injustice by returning a verdict against the
weight of the evidence."
We see no reason, however, for supposing that the language
in § 804, "for insufficient evidence," is to be limited to evidence insufficient in point of law. The words themselves do

MiETROPOLITAN RAILROAD CO. v.

IOORE.

569

Opinion of the Court.

not import any distinction. It is admitted that according to
established rules of procedure in such cases, it is customary and
proper for courts of justice, sitting in the trial of causes by
jury, to set aside verdicts and grant new trials in both classes
of cases; that is, where the verdict rests upon evidence which
is either insufficient in law or insufficient in fact. Strictly
speaking, evidence is said to be insufficient in law only in those
cases where there is a total absence of such proof, either as to
its quantity or kind, as in the particular case some rule of law
requires as essential to the establishment of the fact. Such,
for instance, would be the case where a fact was attested by
one witness only, when the laiv required two; or when the
alleged agreement was proven to be verbal, when the law required it to be in writing. In such cases, a verdict might be
said to be against law, because founded on insufficient evidence. Insufficiency in point of fact may exist in cases where
there is no insufficiency in point of law ; that is, there may be
some evidence to sustain every element of the case, competent
both in quantity and quality in law to sustain it, and yet it
may be met by countervailing proof so potent as to leave no
reasonable doubt of the opposing conclusion. This is illustrated by the case of Algeo v. Duncan, 39 N. Y. 313, 316.
This was an action on a promissory note, and the plaintiff's
primanfaciecase was fully made out; the defence arose upon a
plea of infancy, which was also fully proved, there Bieing no evidence to contradict or discredit the testimony upon that point,
and yet the jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff. In that case
it was decided that a motion to set aside the verdict "for insufficient evidence" was properly made and entertained. Judge
Woodruff, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "The
term 'insufficient evidence,' as used in the Code, should be
considered with reference to the actual issue upon which the
jury were to pass, and not less with reference to the whole
state of the case made by the adverse party. Suppose the
sole issue in a given case was upon a plea of release. The
defendant, having the affirmative of that issue, produces and
proves a release under the hand and seal of the plaintiff, and
the latter gives no evidence in avoidance of the release suffi-

OCTOBER TERAT, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

cient to warrant the submission of any question to the jury,
and yet the jury find for the plaintiff. It is true that such a
verdict would be against the defendant's conclusive evidence,
but it is equally true that such a verdict is without any sufficient evidence."
So upon the -whole evidence in the case the testimony in
support of the cause of action, or of the defence, may be so
slight, although competent in law, or the preponderance
against it may be so convincing, that a verdict may be seen
to be plainly unreasonable and unjust. In many cases it
might be the duty of the court to withdraw the case from
the jury, or to direct a verdict in a particular way; and yet,
in others, where it would be proper to submit the case to the
jury, it might become its duty to set aside the verdict and
grant a new trial. That obligation, however, is the result of
a conclusion of fact, and in such cases the ground of the ruling is, that the verdict is not supported by sufficient evidence,
because it is against the weight of the evidence. Therefore it
was said by this court in Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 109 'U. S. 478: "It is the settled law of this court that
when the evidence given at the trial, with all inferences that
the jury could justifiably draw from it, is insufficient to support a verdict for the plaintiff, so that such verdict, if returned, must be set aside, the court is not bound to submit
the case to the jury, but may direct a verdict for the defendant." In many cases, therefore, the evidence is insufficient in
law, because insufficient in fact.
The sections of the Eevised Statutes relating to the District
of Columbia under consideration, it is admitted, we re taken
substantially from the New York Code of Procedure of 18511S52; and it is admitted, also, that, by the construction placed
upon the language contained in § 804 by the courts of New
York, it includes motions to set aside a verdict against the
weight of evidence, as within the phrase "for insufficient evidence." This was the very point determined in the case just
referred to. of Algeo v. Duncan, "39 N. Y. 313, and in -Me_Donald v. hJ-altr, 40 N. Y. 551. The Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, however, in Stewart v. -Elliott,ubi sTra,

M1ETROPOLITAN RAILROAD CO. v. MOORE.

571

Opinion of the Court.

declined to follow these decisions of the New York courts, because they construed the code of procedure of that state so as
to conform to the previous well established practice in that
state; and it was held that in the District of Columbia the
case was widely different, because prior to the adoption of
these provisions in the act of Congress the well established
practice in the District of Columbia was that which had always been in force in the state of Maryland. The argument
was that in that state the granting or refusal of a motion for
a new trial was a matter resting in the discretion of the court,
and could not be ground for a writ of error or appeal; and
that, consistently with that previous practice, §§ 804 and 805
must be construed strictly so as to limit the appeal originating
in them to the cases particularly mentioned.
The language of the court in Stewart v. Elliott,vb! supra,
on this point is: "This well settled practice, existing here
when the act of March 3, 1863, was passed, should only be
considered as changed by that act to the extent clearly indicated by its terms; and no latitude of construction can be
allowed in the interpretation of a statute framed in derogation
of common law principles. As was said by the court in the
case in 24 Howard," (Pr. Rep. 211, Algeo v. Duncan, before
referred to,) "it is a safe rule to apply the former practice and
interpret the obscurities and deficiencies of the code by the
light of that practice."
But the act of March 3, 1863, "to reorganize the courts
in the District of Columbia and for other purposes," 12
Stat. 762, was the introduction into the District of Columbia of a new organization of its judicial system. It established a single court, to be called the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, having general jurisdiction in law and
equity. It gave to that court the same jurisdiction as was
then possessed and exercised by the Circuit Court of the
District of Columbia, and to the justices of the new court
the powers and jurisdiction of the judges of the Circuit Court.
It also gave to each of the justices of the court power to hold
a District Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, with all the powers and jurisdiction of other District

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Courts of the United States; and also to hold a Criminal
Court for the trial of all crimes and offences arising within
the District, with the same powers and jurisdiction as was
then possessed and exercised by the Criminal Court of' the
District of Columbia. All the courts, therefore, previously
existing in the District of Columbia, as separate and independent tribunals, having special and diverse jurisdictions,
were consolidated into the new Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia. The arrangement of that court, for purposes of
convenience and despatch of business, into general and special
terms, was taken from the system long previously est.ablished
and known in the state of New York in reference to its Supreme Court; and, for the purpose of determining the relation
of the special to the general term, the act of Congress of
March 3, 1863, adopted the provisions from the legislation of
New York incorporated into the sections of the Revised Statutes now under -sideration.
* Instead of construing these new statutory provisions in the
'light of the jurisprudence of Maryland previously prevailing
in the District in reference to this subject, we think that when
Congress reorganized the judicial system of the District, by
abolishing the old courts and by establishing the present Supreme Court of the District, with its general and special terms,
and adopted them from the legislation of New York in substantially the same language, these provisions are to be construed in the sense in which they were understood at the time
in that system from which they were taken. In other words,
we think that Congress adopted for this purpose the law of
New York as it was understood in New York. .McD(1nald .v.
Hovey, 110 U. S.619.
It follows, therefore, that the previous practice of the courts
of Maryland, and the decisions of the Supreme Court of the
United States in reference to writs of error to and appeals
from the former Circuit Court of this District, are not entitled
to the weight which was given to them by the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia in bSwart v. Elliott, ubi szvpra,
and in their judgment in this case. It is true that motions to
grant a new trial, upon the ground that the verc:ict is against

METROPOLITAN RAILROAD CO. v. MOORE.

573

Opinion of the Court.

the weight of the evidence, are, in a certain sense, addressed
to the discretion of the court, and can be more satisfactorily
dealt with by the judge who tried the cause and who had the
opportunity of seeing the witnesses and hearing them testify.
And this furnishes one of the reasons why ordinarily a writ of
error or an appeal will not lie for the purpose of revising and
controlling the exercise of that discretion by an appellate tribunal; yet in some of the states a contrary practice prevails,
and a writ of error is authorized to bring up for review the
proceedings and judgment of an inferior court, on which it
may be assigned as -an error in law, upon a bill of exceptions
setting forth the whole evidence, that the court below erred in
not granting a new trial because the verdict was against the
weight of the evidence. Such a practice in the appellate
courts of the United States is perhaps forbidden by the
Seventh Amendment to the Constitution of the United States,
declaring that "no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined in any court of the United States than according to
the rules of the common law." But that rule is not applicable as between the special and general terms of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia as now organized. The
appeal from the special to the general term is not an appeal
from one court to another, but is simply a step in the progress
of the cause during its pendency in the same court. The
Supreme Court sitting at special term and the Supreme Court
sitting in the general term, though the judges may differ, is
the same tribunal. It is quite true, nevertheless, that the
judge sitting at special term on the trial of a cause by a jury,
is, from the nature of the case, better qualified, because he
sees the witnesses and hears them testify, to judge whether
the verdict is warranted by the evidence, than other judges,
even of the same court, who are called in to decide the same
question upon a report of the testimony in writing; and where
the question comes up in general term, on an appeal, all
proper allowance will be made, in its consideration, for that
difference, and its due weight given to the order of the judge
at special term denying the motion.
The difficulty in the way of a satisfactory judgment on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

appeal is, therefore, not to be considered as insuperable; in
fact, it applies equally to the case of motions for a new trial
based on the ground that the damages allowed by the verdict
are excessive, which presents purely a question of fact, not
determinable by any fixed and certain rule of law. It will
apply also in many cases where the ground of the motion is
that the verdict is not sustained by evidence sufficient in law,
for in one aspect that may involve questions of fact. That
would be a proper form of motion in cases where, although
there is some testimony to support the conclusion, it is so
slight that the judge trying the case would be legally justified
in instructing the jury to return a verdict the other way; and
although, in such cases it is said to be a question of law, it,
nevertheless involves an estimate on the part of the court of
the force and efficacy of the evidence.
It is our opinion, therefore, that the Supreme Court of the
District at general term erred in dismissing the appeal from
the order at special term denying the motion for a new trial
on the ground that the verdict was against the weight of
evidence. It should have entertained and considered the
appeal on that ground.
It is urged in argument, however, that the error did not
prejudice the plaintiff in error, because the court necessarily
passed upon the same matter in considering and sustaining
the ruling of the court at special term in refusing to instruct
the jury to return a, verdict in favor of the defendant upon
the evidence offered by.the plaintiff; but the question arising
on tlhis ruling, and that on the motion for a new trial at the
conclusion of the whole evidence, were not identical. It
might well be that on the plaintiff's evidence there was a case
sufficiently made out to submit to the jury, while on the
whole testimony it might fairly be a question whether the
verdict was not against the weight of the evidence, in that
sense which would justify the court in granting a new trial.
Of course, nothing we have said in this opinion is to be
construed as indicating any rule of decision in such cases, or is
intended in the least to narrow the province of the jury
as the proper tribumal for determining questions of fact in

McGOWAN v. AMERICAN TAN BARK CO.

5Th

Syllabus.

trials at common law. The relation of the court to the jury,.
together constituting the appointed tribunal for the achninistration of the law in such cases, is regulated by fixed and

settled maxims. The legal discretion of the Supreme Court
of the District, whether sitting at general or special term, in
granting or denying motions to set aside verdicts and grant

new trials, is not by law submitted to the review of this
court. The only point in judgment here is that the plaintiff
in error was entitled by law to have that discretion exercised

by the Supreme Court at general term, and that that court
committed an error -f law in refusing to consider his appeal
from the order at special term denying his motion for a new
trial, based on the ground that the verdict was against the

weight of the evidence.
For this error, the judgment of the Suprerne Court of the
_District of Colurnbic at General Term is reversed, and the
cause 'emanded, with directions to take further 1roceedings therein in conformity with this opinion.

McGOWAN v. AMERICAN PRESSED TAN BARK
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Argued March 25, 2S, 1887. -Decided

May 2, 18S7.

In this case, the question being whether a contract was made by the
defendants as copartners, or for a corporation, it was held that the
instructions to the jury on the subject were proper.
Where, by a contract, the defendants were to erect machinery on a steamboat in 60 days from the date of the contract, and the plaintiff did not
furnish the steamboat until after the expiration of the 60 days, and the
defendants then went on to do the work, they were bound to do it in 60
days from the time the boat was finished.
A supplemental contract between the parties construed, as to its bearing
on the original contract sued on.
A counterclaim or recoupnment must be set bp in the answer, to be available.
An objection to the competency of an expert witness to testify, overruled.

-

