OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Counsel for Parties.

rection through the coolest waters and into the coolest temperature. That this was the expectation of the parties is
shown by the fact that the stipulation as to the passage was
made "for the benefit of the cargo," the preservation of
which required that it should be kept "in as cold a temperature as possible, short of the freezing point." The court
should have ascertained from the evidence what passages
there were between Gibraltar and Boston which vessels were
accustomed to take, and then determined which of them
this vessel was allowed by its contract to choose as "the
northern."
TMe decree is reversed, and the cae reman&d for fiirther
jproceeding8 in conformity with this opinion.

CARPENTER '. WASHINGTON AND GEORGETOWN
RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Submitted April 22, 1887.-Decided May 2, 1887.

The charge of the court in this case was eminently favorable to the plaintiff
below, who is plaintiff in error, and, when it is taken in connection with
the testimony, it is clear that the jury found a verdict for defendant on
the ground that the plaintiff was in fault, and that the defendant's agents
,used no unnecessary force.

THIns was an action at law against the defendant in error
for the ejection of the plaintiff in error from its cars by its
servants. Judgment for defendant. Plaintiff sued out this
writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

31r. C. C. Cole and -Mr.

. 1. Cole for plaintiff in error.

Atr.. Enoch Totten and A1f,. Walter D. Davidge for defendant in error.
/

,CARPENTER v. WASHINGTON, &c., RAILROAD. 475
Opinion of the Court.

Mm[. JusTIcE MmLLER delivered the bpinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Distrist
of Columbia.
The defendant in error, the Washington and Georgetown
Railroad Company, is a street railroad company doing business in the city of Washington, its road having two branches,
crossing each other at right angles at the intersection of Pennsylvania Avenue and Seventh Street. Passengers who had
paid their fare on either branch of the road, upon arriving
at this crossing, were entitled to receive a transfer ticket,
which permitted them, without futthpr payment, to take the
other branch in the continuation of their journey.
The plaintiff in error, James N5. Carpenter, who was also the
plaintiff below, who testified to taking his passage on the
Seventh Street branch of this road, got off at this crossing,
received a ticket from the agent, who was stationed at that
point for the purpose of delivering transfer tickets to passengers who wished to change cars, and took his seat in a car on
the Pennsylvania Avenue branch going east toward the Capitol. When the conductor of the- car came around to collect'
tickets, it was found that Carpenter had a transfer ticket
which was intended for use on the Seventh Street branch
and not on Pennsylvania Avenue. The conductor refused to
accept this ticket, and demanded -of Carpenter the usual fare
charged for riding on that road. After some altercation, Carpenter peremptorily refusing to pay the fare demanded or get
off when requested so to do, the car was stopped and the conductor and driver put him off forcibly. He then brought suit'
against the company. Upon a trial before a jury, a verdict
was rendered for the defendant, and the judgment on this verdict, on appeal to the Supreme Court of the District in bank,
was affirmed.
The entire testimony is embodied in a bill of exceptions,
and no question arises on the admission or rejection of evidence, nor is there much contradiction in it, except that there
may be some little difference between the statement of the
plaintiff as to the degree of force used to put him off the car

OCTOBER TERMA,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

and that of the conductor and driver on the same subject.
There were, however, some exceptions taken to the charge of
the court, as well as to the refusal to give instructions prayed
for by plaintiff. We think, however, that the charge given
by the court sua sponte, when taken in connection with the
verdict of the jury, contains all that need be considered.
That charge is embodied in the fifth bill of exceptions, and
is as follows:
"And thereupon the court instructed the jury that if they
believed from the evidence that the agents of the defendant
had made a mistake in giving to the plaintiff a transfer ticket,
and instead of giving him a Pennsylvania Avenue transfer had
given him a Seventh Street transfer, that the plaintiff was entitled to recover, and that in assessing the damages the plaintiff
was entitled to have reasonable damages compensatory for the
treatment which he had received, and that the defendant company was bound to see to it that the plaintiff was provided with
a proper transfer, and that if the mistake had been made the
responsibility therefor rested upon the company and-not upon
the plaintiff.
"And the court further instructed the jury that if, upon the
other hand, they believed that the conduct of the agents of
the company was wanton and malicious, and that they, had
purposely. given him the wrong transfer, and that they had
maliciously and wantonly ejected him from the car because of
personal dislike or animosity, then the plaintiff was entitled to
recover, and in assessing damages, in that view of, the case, the
plaintiff was entitled to recover not only compensatory but
vindictive damages, and to this latter branch of the instruction
the defendant, by its counsel, then and there objected, and the
objection was overruled and an exception was duly noted.
"The court thereupon further instructed the jury that if the
jury were satisfied from the evidence that the plaintiff did not
get off from the Seventh Street car, as related by him, but
that he came from the west-bound Avenue car, with the passengers from that car, and presented himself, with those passengers, to the tralisfer agent of the defendant, and that the
plaintiff received the Seventh Street transfer without objection

CARPENTER 6. WASHINGTON, &c., RAILROAD 477
Opinion of the Court.

or remark, and undertook to ride upon it on a Pennsylvania
avenue car, the defendant was entitled to a verdict."
This whole charge, it seems to us, was eminently favorable
to the plaintiff. The first point made in it was that if the
jury believed from the evidence that the agent of the defendant had made a mistake in giving to the plaintiff a Seventh
Street instead of a Pennsylvania Avenue transfer ticket, that
then the plaintiff was entitled to recover. It is obvious from
the verdict of the jury, which was against the plaintiff, that
they did not believe that the agents of the defendant company.
at the crossing were responsible for the mistake that had been
made there, because in the same connection the court instructed the jury that if they were satisfied from the evidence
that the plaintiff did not get off from the Seventh Street car,
as related by him, but that he came from the west-bound
Avenue car, with the passengers from that car, and presented
himself, with those passengers, to the transfer agent of the
defendant, and that the plaintiff received the Seventh Street
transfer without 'objection or remark, and undertook to ride
upon it on a Pennsylvania Avenue car, that the defendant was
entitled to a verdict.
Taking these two charges together, in connection with the
testimony, it is evident that the jury founded their verdict
upon the hypothesis contained in the latter, namely, that
either he did not get off from the Seventh Street car, but
came from the west-bound Avenue car, or that he came with
the passengers from that car and presented himself with them
to the agent of the defendant in a way to lead him to believe
that he came from the Avenue car and desired to proceed on
the Seventh Street car, which was confirmed by his taking
without objection or remark the Seventh Street car transfer ticket. The testimony also showed that Carpenter had
travelled a great deal on the cars of the defendant corporation, was familiar with the manner of transferring passengers,
and must have known the character of the ticket which was
handed to him if he had paid any attention to it whatever.
The remaining portion of the charge was also favorable to
the plaintiff, that is, that if the jury believed that the conduct

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

of the agents of the company was wanton and malicious, and
that they had purpQsely given him the wrong transfer, and
that they had wantonly and maliciously ejected him from the
car, then the plaintiff was entitled to recover, and in assessing
damages he was entitled not only to compensatory but to vindictive damages.
-Taking the testimony, which is all. set forth in, the record
and is but little controverted, together with the charge of the
judge, we think it perfectly clear that the jury found a verdict for the defendant on the ground that the plaintiff himself was mainly in fault in regard to the mistake in the transfer
*ticket, and that no unnecessary force or violence was used in
ejecting him from the car. This renders a further considera-,
tion of the case unnecessary, and
The judgment of the 9uzpreme Court of the Di8trict of
Columbia is a med.
BRAGG v. FITOH
APPEAL FROM THE CIOUIT coURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
Argued January 11, 12, 1887.-Decided M.tay 2, 1887.

In view of the previous state of the art, the claims in the patent granted to
Charles B. Bristol, May 16, 1865, for an improvement in harness hooks
or snaps must be restricted to the precise form and arrangement of parts
described in the specification and to the purpose therein indicated.

iBILL in equity to restrain alleged infringements of letterspatent. Decree for complainants. Respondents appealed. The
case is stated in the opinion of the court. The following are
the figures referred to in the opinion.
17'ig, 1.

