MENARD v. GOGGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

M1ENARD

v. GOGGAN.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Submitted April 1, 1887.-Decided April 11, 1887.

Irisdgain held that when the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court depends alone
on citizenship, an averment that the plaintiff is a "resident" in one state
named, and that the, defendant is a "resident" in another state named
confers no jurisdiction; and a judgmient rendered below in such case in
favor of the defendant and brought up in error by the plaintiff, is reversed with costs in this court against the plaintiff in error.

THrE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
A'.

JoUh

T. Butterteld for plaintiff in error.

No appearance for defendant in error.
M3R.

CHIEF

JUSTm WAITE delivered the opinion of'the court.

This record does not show that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the suit which depended alone on the citizenship of
the parties. The petition states that Edmund Mfenard, the
plaintiff, "resides in Randolph County, in the state of Illinois,"
and that the defendants, of whom Thomas Goggan, the defendant in error, was one, "reside in the city of Galveston," in
the state of Texas. There is nothing else from which the citizenship of either party can be inferred, and this is not enough.
We have so held at the present term in ContinentalInsurance
Company v. Rhoads, 119 U. S. 231, where the authorities are
cited; Halsted v. Buster, 119 U. S. 341, and -Everhartv. .Hunts'ille College, 120 U. S. 223. This judgment must, therefore,
be reversed on the authority of those cases, and as the fault
rests with the plaintiff in error, whose duty it was when bringing the suit to make the jurisdiction appear, the reversal will
-be at his costs in this court. Hancock v. Holbrook, 112 U. S.
229; Halsted v. Buster, szmpra. If the necessary citizenship

OCTOBER' TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

actually existed at the time the suit was began, it will be for
the court below to determine, when the case gets back, whether
the record shall be amended so as to show that fact, and thus
make out the jurisdiction.
Te judgment of the Circ6it -6urts
reversed at the cos8R
of the aintf in eror, and t
use remmnW for further proceedins.

UNITED STATES v. PIHiLLIPS.
ERROR TO THE CI

urT 'COURT

OF THE Ul TED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Argued April 4, 1887. -Decided

April 11, 188T.

Notice of a writ of error, given In open court at the same term the judgment is rendered, is not the equivalent of citation.

THE case is stated in,
the opinion of the court.
X&r. Assistant Attorney GeneraZ Maury for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendants in error.
MR. CfIEF JUSTICE WA=E delivered the opinion of the court.

In this case no citation was ever issued, and the defendants
in error do not appear. Notice of a writ, of error, given in
open court at the same term the judgment is rendered, is not
the equivalent of the citation required by ยง 999 of the Revised
Statutes. In this respect writs of error differ from appeals
taken in open court.
The writ of error is dismissed.

