OCTOBER TERMI,

1894.

Statement of the Case.

these references, as stated in the charge, was to indicate to
the jury that as to certain counts there could be no conviction,
because as to them the testimony was only that of an accomOf course the defendant cannot
plice and uncorroborated.
complain of an instruction that no conviction can be had on
any count supported by only the uncorroborated testimony of
an accomplice.
These are the substantial questions presented by counsel.
We have examined them all carefully, and are of the opinion
that no substantial error appears in the record. The judgment is, therefore,
Affirmed.
Mr. JUSTICE FIELD dissented.

DELAWARE AND HUDSON CANAL COMPANY v.
PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 452.

Submitted January 7, 1895. -Decided

January 14, 1895.

Reversed upon the authority of lNew York, Lake Eme & Western Railroad
Co. v. Tennsylvanza, 153 U. S. 628.

THE Delaware and Hudson Canal Company was held liable
in the trial court, whose judgment was affirmed by the Supreme

Court of Pennsylvania, for the amount of a tax of three mills
upon bonds originally issued and sold by the company in the
State of New York, but held in the year 1890 by residents of
Pennsylvania. The tax was imposed upon the bondholders.
The liability of the company was maintained because of the
failure of its treasurer, when paying interest in the city of
New York, to deduct therefrom the amount of the tax and
pay the same into the state treasury of Pennsylvania. The
company, which is a corporation of the State of New York,
constructed a portion of its improvements within the limits of

IDEL. & HUDSON CANAL CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

201

Opinion of the Court.

Pennsylvania, in pursuance of certain statutes of that State
defining the terms and conditions upon which they might be
so constructed. In its original appeal and in its assignment
of errors the company denied the authority of the State of
Pennsylvania to inpose upon it or its treasurer, when paying
interest in New York, the duty of assessing and collecting
this Pennsylvania state tax, and further urged that the imposition upon it of this duty as a further condition to its
doing business in Pennsylvania worked an impairment of the
obligation of the contract contained in the original legislation, in pursuance of winch it entered the State and constructed its works.
. r .M. E. Olmsted for plaintiff in error.

.Mr TF U Hensel, Attorney General of the State of
Pennsylvania, and Air James A. Sranakan for defendant
in error.
The assignments of error raise substantially the same questions as were presented to this court in New York, Lake F&re
& Western Railroad v Pennsylvanza, 153 U. S. 628. By
reference to the record, it will appear that in the trial court
and in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania the two cases were
considered identical in principle. It is conceded by the Commonwealth that there is no substantial distinction between
them. The Erie case was thoroughly and fully discussed
upon either side, and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
having nothing further to add to its views as then presented,
respectfully submits the case at bar for such action as to this
honorable court may seem proper.

THE CmF

JUSTICE

Judgment reversed with costs upon

the authority of ZVew York, Lake Erwe & Western Railroad
v. Pennsybvanza, 153 U S. 628, and cause remanded for
further proceedings consistent with the opinion in that case.
Reversed.

