OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

An exception was taken to this portion of the charge, and
the twenty-fourth assignment of error was intended to cover
it. For the reasons given above, we think the court erred in
its interpretation of the patent. If there was any invention
at all disclosed, it was in the use of the reservoir and the
screening device, and without expressing an opinion upon this
point of patentability, it is clear that no infringement was
involved in the use of defendant's hopper and chute, with or
without a solid bottom, if for no other reason, because it
lacked the reservoir of the plaintiff's patent.
There was no question to go to the jury in the case, and the
court should have directed a verdict for the defendant.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Reversed, and the case r.emanded wzatl d'ireetons to set asde
the verdict and grant a new trzal.

JOHNSON v. ATLANTIC, GULF AND WEST INDIA
TRANSIT COMPANY
APPEAL

FROM1 THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No.77.

Argued November 14, 1894.-Decided March 4, 1695.

The road between Fernandina and Cedar Key was the road designated and
pointed out in the various acts of the legislature of Florida referred to
in the opinion, as the one on whose completion and after default the

trustees were authorized to sell.
The Trustees of Internal Improvements in the State of Florida, who took
possession of the railroad and sold it, were legally entitled to act as such
trustees, on the well-settled doctrine that the acts of the several States,

in their individual capacities and of their different departments of government- executive, judicial, and legislative- during the war, so far as
they did not impair or tend to impair the supremacy of the National

authority, or the just rights of citizens under the Constitution, are to be
treated as valid and binding.

The weight of the evidence, apart from the evidential character of the
answers, is clearly to the effect that the railroad, at the time of the sale,
was in a thoroughly dilapidated condition, and, in view of its condition,

and the state of the country, the price realized was not inadequate.

JOHNSON v. WEST INDIA TRAlNSIT CO.
Statement of the Case.

Tuis was a suit in equity, brought for the purpose of subjecting certain railroad property, formerly in the possession of
a corporation known as the Florida Railroad Company, to the
effect of an alleged lien thereon of second mortgage bonds of
that company, some of which bonds were held and. owned, as
averred, by the complainants. The various bills fied in the
cause, upon which proceedings were had, were dismissed by
the court below, and permission was denied certain of the
complainants and others to file what was styled by them a
bill of supplement, revivor, and amendment against the original defendants and others. The complainants were allowed
an appeal to this court.
The Florida Railroad Company was a corporation organized
under an act of assembly of the State of Florida, approved
January 8, 1853. By this, the act of incorporation of the
company, all persons who should become subscribers for
stock thereof were enabled "to purchase, receive, retain, and
enjoy to them and their successors and assigns, lands and tenements, goods and chattels,
and the same to grant,
sell, mortgage, and dispose of," etc. The seventh section of
the act provided that the company should have the right and
privilege to construct and complete a railroad, to commence m
East Florida, upon some tributary of the Atlantic Ocean, within
the limits of the State of Florida, having a sufficient outlet to
the ocean to admit of the passage of sea steamers, and thence
to continue, in the most eligible direction, through the State,
to some point, bay, arm, or tributary of the Gulf of -Mexico,
south and east of the Suwauee River, having a similar outlet,
and that, so soon as practicable after the organization of the
company, a competent engineer, under the direction of the
president and directors, should proceed to locate the eastern
terminus, and survey the route of said railroad to the southwestern terminus, and should make the proper estimates and
the necessary charts and diagrams, which should be filed in
the office of the company
On January 6, 1855, an act of assembly of the State of Florida was approved, entitled "An act to provide for and encourage a liberal system of internal improvements in this State,"

OCTOBER TERAI, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

c. 610, [No. 1J Acts of 1854-1855, page 9. The declared purpose of this act was to carry out a provision of the constitution of the State for the encouragement of internal improvements, making it the duty of the general assembly to ascertain
by law proper objects of improvements in relation to roads,
etc., and to provide for a suitable application of such funds as
might be appropriated for such improvements. The first section of the act provided for the setting apart of certain lands
granted to the State by the United States, and of the proceeds
of the sales made and to be made thereof, as a fund to be
called the internal improvement fund of the State of Florida,
and provided that such lands and proceeds were to be strictly
applied according to the requirements of the act. Other essential provisions of the act were as follows
"1S&c. 2. Be zt farther enacted, That for the purpose of
assuring a proper application of said fund for the purposes
herein declared, said lands and all the funds arising from
the sale thereof, after paying the necessary expenses of
selection, management and sale, are hereby irrevocably vested
in five trustees, to wit, in the governor of this State, the
comptroller of public accounts, the state treasurer, the attorney general, and the register of state lands, and their successors in office, to hold the same in trust for the uses and
and to pay out of
purposes hereinafter provided,
said fund, agreeably to the provisions of this act, the interest,
from time to time, as it may become due on the bonds to be
issued by the different railroad companies under authority of
this act, also, to receive and demand, semi-annually, the sum
of one-half of one per cent (after each separate line of railroad is completed) on the entire amount of the bonds issued
by said railroad company, and invest the same in stocks of
the United States, or state securities, or in the bonds herein
provided to be issued by said company Said trustees shall
also invest the surplus interest of said sinking fund investment as it may accrue. Said trustees shall also demand
and receive from each railroad company named in this act
the amount due to the internal improvement fund from
said railroad company, according to the provisions herein con-

JOHNSON

. WEST INDIA TRANSIT CO.
Statement of the Case.

tamed, on account of interest on the bonds issued by said
company
"SEc. 3. Be st further enacted, That all bonds issued by
any railroad company under the provisions of this act shall
be recorded in the comptroller's office and so certified by
the comptroller, and shall be countersigned by the state
treasurer, and shall contain a certificate on the part of the
trustees of the internal improvement fund that said bonds
are issued agreeably to the provisions of this act, and that
the internal improvement fund, for which they are trustees,
is pledged to pay the interest as it may become due on said
bonds. All .bonds issued by any railroad company under
the provisions of this act shall be a first lien or mortgage
on the roadbed, iron, equipment, workshops, depots, and
franchises, and upon a failure on the part of any railroad
company accepting the provisions of this act to provide the
interest as herein provided on the bonds issued by said company, and the sum of one per cent per annum as a.sinking fund,
as herein provided, it shall be the duty of the trustees, afterthe expiration of thirty days from said default or refusal,
to take possession of said railroad and all its property of
every kind and advertise the same for sale at public auction
to the highest bidder, either for cash or additional approved
security, as they may think most advantageous for the interest of the internal improvement fund and the bondholders.
The proceeds arising from such sale shall be applied by said
trustees to the purchase and cancelling of the outstanding
bonds issued by said defaulting company, or incorporated
with the sinking fund Promded, That in making such sale_
it shall be conditioned that the purchasers shall be bound
to continue the payment of one-half of one per cent semiannually to the sinking fund until all the outstanding bonds
are discharged, under the penalty of an annulment of the contract of purchase, and the forfeiture of the purchase money
paid in.
"S1Ec. 4. Be st further enacted, That a line of railroad
from the St. John's River, at Jacksonville, and the waters
of Pensacola Bay, with an extension from suitable points on,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

said line to St. Mark's River, or Crooked River, at White
Bluff on Apalachicola Bay, in Middle Florida, and to the
waters of St. Andrew's Bay, in West Florida, and a line from
Amelia Island, on the Atlantic, to the waters of Tampa Bay,
in South Florida, with an extension to Cedar Key, in East
Florida, also a canal from the waters of St. John's River on
Lake Hlarney to the waters of Indian River, are proper improvements to be aided from the internal improvement fund,
in manner as hereinafter provided.
"SEC. 5. Be t further enacted, That the several railroads
now organized or chartered by the legislature, or that may
hereafter be chartered, any portion of whose routes as authorized by their different charters, and amendments thereto, shall
be within the line or routes laid down in section four, shall
have the right and privilege of constructing that part of the
line embraced by their charter on giving notice to the trustees
of the internal improvement fund of their full acceptance of
the provisions of this act, specifying the part of the route they
propose to construct, and upon the refusal or neglect of any
railroad company now organized to accept, within six months
from the passage of this act, the provisions of the same,
any other company, duly authorized by law, may undertake
the construction of such part of the line as they may desire
to make, and which may not be in progress of construction
under a previous charter.
"Sec. 8. Be it further enacted, That on the completion of
the grading and the furnishing of the cross-ties of twenty miles
continuously, and every additional ten miles, as provided by
this act, said railroad company are hereby authorized to issue
coupon bonds, having not more than thirty-five years to run,
and drawing not more than seven per cent annual interest,
payable semi-annually in the city of New York or Tallahassee,
at the option of the purchaser, at the rate of eight thousand
dollars per mile for the purchase and delivery of the iron rail,
spikes, plates, and chairs, and after the rail has been laid down
on the line, the additional sum of two thousand dollars per
mile for the purchase of the necessary equipments, and said

JOHNSON v. WEST INDIA TRANSIT CO.
Statement of the Case.

bonds shall always afterwards constitute and be a first lien
or mortgage upon the roadbed, iron, equipment, workshops,
depots, and franchises.
"SEc. 11. Be stfurther enacted, That it shall be the duty of
the president and directors of every railroad company accepting the provisions of this act, while the road is under construction, to report to the trustees of the internal improvement
fund every six months, under the oath of the president and at
least two of the directors, the gross receipts of said company
from the traffic of the road for the past six months, the cost of
transportation and repairs, and the total amount of the net
receipts of said company, and it shall be the duty of the
president and directors to pay to the trustees of the internal
improvement fund fifty per cent of said net receipts every six
months, which sum or sums shall be applied by the trustees of
the internal improvement fund toward the payment of the
interest of any bonds issued by said company
" SEc. 12. Be zt f'urther enacted, That every railroad com-

pany accepting the provisions of this act shall, after the
completion of the road, pay to the trustees of the internal
improvement fund at least one-half of one per cent on the
amount of indebtedness or bond account every six months as a
sinking fund, top be invested by them in the class of securities
named in section two, or to be applied to the purchase of the
-outstanding bonds of the company, but it shall be distinctly
understood that the purchase of said bonds shall not relieve
the company from paying the interest on the same, they being held by the trustees as an investment on account of
the sinking fund.
"SEC. 14. Be st further enacted, That for all payments
made by the trustees of the internal improvement fund on
account of interest for any railroad company agreeably to the
provisions of this act, said trustees shall demand and receive
from said railroad. company equal amounts of the capital stock
of said company, which stock shall entitle the internal improvement fund to all the privileges and advantages of private
stockholders."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

On March 6, 1855, D L. Yulee, president of the Florida
Railroad Company, wrote to the president of the board of
trustees of the internal improvement fund as follows
"SiR By instruction of the board of directors of the Fla.
R. R. Co. I beg leave to inform the board of trustees of the
int. imp. fund that the company make full acceptance of the,
terms and provisions of the act passed at the late session of
the general assembly relative to a system of internal improvements in the State.
"I beg leave to say that they propose to construct a road
from Amelia Island in the direction of Tampa, as far as a
point proper for divergence, to Cedar Keys, and from said
diverging point to Cedar Keys, by way of extension, and that
if the amendment to the charter of the company, now pending
in the general assembly, is granted, they will also construct
the balance of the road from the diverging point to Tampa."
An act to amend the act incorporating the Florida Railroad.
Company was approved on December 14, 1855. Acts of 1855,
16, c. 729 [INo. 120]. It contained, among other provisions,.
the following "SEC. 1. That the act incorporating the Florida Railroad Company, approved the 8th day of January,
A.D. 1853, is hereby amended so that the said company shall
have power to construct the railroad from Ainelia Island on,
the Atlantic to the waters of Tampa Bay in South Florida,
with an extension to Cedar Key in East Florida, under the,
provisions of an act to provide for and encourage a liberal system of internal improvements in this State, approved the 6th.
SEc. 4. That the presiday of January, A.D. 1855.
dent and directors of the Florida Railroad Company may set.
off any portion of their line to persons desirous of constructing the same, and in that event such portion may have a distinct organization, with all the grants, rights, powers, duties,.
and privileges conferred on the Florida Railroad Company,
with the right to adopt a different name, in order to keep the
stock account and liabilities separate Provnged, That two
months' notice shall be given to the board of trustees of the
internal improvement fund of such set-off or assignment, and
a copy of the same be filed with said board of trustees,"

JOHNSON v. WEST INDIA TRANSIT CO.
Statement of the Case.

Subsequently to the approval of this act the following letter
was written
"TALLAHASSEE, December 6, 1858.
"To the Trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund.
"GENTLEm
Doubts having been expressed as to the sufficiency of the notices heretofore given as to the efficacy of the
terms of the first section of the act of December, 1855, amending the charter of the Florida Railroad Company in placing
the part of the route between the Cedar Keys and Tampa
Junction within the provisions of the internal improvement
act without any special notice, I hereby and now, to put at
rest any future doubts, formally notify the trustees of the full
acceptance by the Florida Railroad Company of the provisions
of the act of January 6, 1855, entitled ' An act to provide for
and encourage a liberal system of internal improvements' for
that part of the route designated in their amended charter
which lies between Tampa and the point of junction with the
Cedar Keys extension, or, in other words, for all that part of
the routes covered by their charter which may not be regarded
by the trustees to be included in the effect of the notice filed
by them of the date of March 6, 1855.
"I have the honor to be, respectfully yours,
"D. L. YULEE,
"P]restdent of the FloridaRailroad."

Both this letter and that dated March 6. 1855, were certified
by the commissioner of lands and immigration of the State of
Florida on April -7, 1882, to be on fie in his office.
In accordance with the provisions of the internal nnprovement act, part or all the first mortgage bonds authorized
thereby were issued, and the company also issued second
mortgage bonds, which were made a lien on the railroad property, inferior to that of the first mortgage bonds, but a first
lien on the company's lands within the town sites of Fernandina and Cedar Key, and on other lands of the company along
the line of the road. To secure the payment of the principal
and interest of the second mortgage bonds all the property of
VOL. oLVI-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

the company was conveyed by it, in the year 1856, to James
F Soutter and John McRae, in trust.
The road was completed between Fernandina and Cedar
Key in March, 1861, and, as appears by the testimony of
Yulee, a separate contract was made on August 20, 1858, for
the construction of a portion of that part of road which extended from Waldo, a point on the line between Fernandina
and Cedar Key, to Tampa Bay
On November 3, 1866, the trustees of the internal improvement fund conveyed to "Edward N. Dickerson and his associates" all the railroad property of the said company by an
indenture which stated in its recitals the provisions of the
third section of the internal improvement act, and also that
the Florida Railroad Company had entirely failed since November 5, 1863, to pay the one-half of one per cent semi-annually
on the bonds issued by it according to the provisions of the internal improvement act, and also the interest on the same,
that, according to the provisions of the third section of that
act, the trustees of the internal improvement fund on October
6, 1866, took into their possession the railroad and all its property of every kind, and advertised the same for sale for cash at
public auction, at the town of Gainesville, Florida, on November 1, 1866, that on the day and place last mentioned the terms
of the sale were announced, namely, that the sale and the
rights of the purchaser at the same were subject to all the conditions of the internal improvement act, that the railroad and all
its property of every kind was then and there put up for sale,
and was purchased by Isaac K. Roberts, he being the highest
and best bidder, having bid the sum of $323,400 for the
same, and that the said Isaac K. Roberts had directed that the
railroad and all the property thereof should be conveyed to
Edward N. Dickerson and associates.
Immediately upon the making of this conveyance the purchasers of the said property organized themselves into a new
company, which they called the Florida Railroad Company
On May 12, 1869, they issued bonds aggregating in amount
$2,300,000, bearing interest at the rate of seven per cent per
annum, maturing January 1, 1900, and, to. secure the payment

JOHlNSON v. WEST INDIA TRANSIT CO.
Statement of the Case.

of the principal and interest of the same, on May 26, 1869,
they made a conveyance of the railroad property, in trust, to
John A. Stewart and Frederic A. Conkling.
Afterwards the said purchasers formed a new corporation,
having the name of the Florida Railroad Company, under the
provisions of an act of assembly approved June 24, 1869, entitled "An act to perfect the public works in this State," which
provided, in the 29th section thereof, as follows "That in all
cases of seizure and sale of the railroad property and franchises
of any company by the trustees of the internal improvement
fund under the provisions of the act to provide for and encourage a liberal system of internal improvement, the purchaser or purchasers shall be entitled to do whatever acts may
be necessary to enable him or them to exercise and enjoy the
franchises granted by the charter of incorporation under the
provisions of the said original charter and the amendments
thereto." Laws of 1869, Extra Session, c. 1716 [No. 4].
By an act approved January 18, 1872, it was provided that
the corporate company owning the property formerly known
as the Florida railroad, and which had theretofore been
known as the Florida Railroad Company, should thereafter
be known as the Atlantic, Gulf and West India Transit Company, and the rights, franchises, and privileges, as well as the
duties, responsibilities, and liabilities of the said corporation,
should in all respects remain and continue the same as though
no change had been made in their said name. Laws of 1872,
c. 1918 [No. 56].
On August 21, 1813, Robert HI. Johnson, a citizen of the
State of New York, brought his bill in equity in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Florida against the said Atlantic, Gulf and West India Transit
Company, John McRae, as trustee, appointed by the Florida
Railroad Company, for the benefit of the holders of second
mortgage bonds thereof, a citizen of the State of North Carolina, Marshall 0. Roberts and Edward N. Dickerson, of the
State of New York, Isaac K. Roberts, a citizen of the State
of Louisiana, Samuel A. Swann, a citizen of the State of
Florida, David L. Yulee, of Florida, and the Florida Railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Company, in which bill the complainant alleged that he was
the holder and owner of two second mortgage bonds of
$1000 each of the Florida Railroad Company, dated March 1,
1856, payable March 1, 1891, that these bonds were a second
mortgage on the Florida railroad, and on property pretended
to belong to the Atlantic, Gulf and West India Transit Company, that by the terms of the bonds the trustees named
therein were empowered to sell or otherwise dispose of the
said property, without judicial proceeding, for the benefit of
the holders of the bonds in default of the payment of the
principal or interest thereof to an amount equal to one year's
interest, that there was then due on the bonds held by the
complainant all of the principal and $1760 of interest, amounting in all to 83760, being in amount more than one year's
interest, that by reason of default of payment of interest the
principal had become demandable of the company, and that
for the payment of the same all the said railroad property
had become liable.
The complainant then referred to the issue of the first
mortgage bonds under the internal improvement act, and
averred that the railroad had never been completed, that by
the terms of its charter its main track was to be extended to
Tampa Bay, that this main track had never been built, and
that the net earnings of the road had never at any time
exceeded six per cent of the capital stock, bonded debt, and
sinking fund. It was alleged, therefore, that the interest due
on such of the first mortgage bonds as might be outstanding
was demandable of the internal improvement fund, and was
not a charge upon the company or the road. The complainant claimed that if, however, it should be decreed that such
interest was payable by the company, he was entitled to pay
such interest and redeem the road.
The complainant stated that Soutter, one of the trustees
for the benefit of the second mortgage bondholders, was not
living, and averred that McRae, the other trustee, had neglected and refused to execute the powers of his trust for the
benefit of the bondholders, and had suffered a large quantity
of the lands conveyed to him for the purposes of the trust to

JOHNSON v. WEST INDIA TRANSIT CO.
Statement of the Case.

be fraudulently and collusively sold for the benefit of the
defendant, David L. Yulee, and the Atlantic, Gulf and West
India Transit Company He averred that the railroad was of
great value, and worth much more than enough to pay the
whole amount of the outstanding bonds and other debts of
the company, that the original Florida Railroad Company
was identical with the Atlantic, Gulf and West India Transit
Company, subject to the same trusts and liabilities, and composed in part, if not altogether, of the same persons, and that
the companies were in privity of estate and of person, that
the change of name had been made in guile and covin and
with intent to defraud the creditors of the Florida Railroad
Company, that the stockholders of that company, except the
trustees of the internal improvement fund, and except such
stockholders as had accepted stock in payment of debts due
them for aiding in the construction of the road, were credit
stockholders who had subscribed for stock chiefly in large
amounts, and had paid only a small assessment thereon, that
the majority of the stock was held in this manner by persons
who had paid merely nominal sums thereon, that David L.
Zulee was the president of the Florida Railroad Company,
and had controlled, either in his own name or through Dickerson and associates, a majority of the shares of the capital
stock of the company, and that the cost of construction of
the railroad was paid almost entirely, if not altogether, out of
moneys and credits resulting from negotiations of the first
mortgage bonds and the sale of the second mortgage bonds.
It was further stated that the associates of Dickerson were
unknown to the complainant, but the complainant stated that he
was informed and believed that such associates included Yulee,
and he prayed for a discovery from Yulee of the names of all such
associates and of the terms and manner of their association.
Other allegations of the bill were as follows That in 1866,
within six months after the establishment of the so-called
provisional government of the State of Florida, Yulee, then
president of the Florida Railroad Company, effected an
arrangement by which the defendant Marshall 0. Roberts
advanced the money to Yulee and Dickerson and associates

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

to purchase the first mortgage bonds of the company then
outstanding, at about 20 per cent of their face value, for the
benefit of Yulee and Dickerson and associates, that these
bonds were so purchased by Yulee or by Dickerson and associates, or by Roberts for them, under an agreement that the
railroad should be sold for the interest then accrued upon the
bonds, and be bought in by Yulee and Dickerson and associates and be held by them to the exclusion of the internal
improvement fund and its interest in the capital stock of the
company, and be divested of the trusts and liens theretofore
created, and be freed from the debts and obligations due the
complainant and the creditors of the company, that Yulee,
president of the company, procured an order from the alleged
governor and other officers of the pretended provisional government of Florida, claiming to be trustees of the internal
improvement fund, for the seizure and sale of the railroad for
the satisfaction of the one per cent per annum due the sinking fund, that Yulee, president as aforesaid, agreed to pay in
at such sale the majority of the outstanding first mortgage
bonds, and further agreed with the said trustees to guarantee
that the railroad should be purchased at the sale for an amount
sufficient to pay 20 per cent of the first mortgage bonds, that
in pursuance of that agreement the railroad was seized and
sold by the trustees, and was bid in by Isaac K. Roberts for
the benefit of Edward N. Dickerson and associates for the
sum of $314,000, of which all but about $96,000 was paid in
the said first mortgage bonds, that the trustees, under an
agreement negotiated by Yulee, also transferred to him and
Dickerson and associates not less than 100,000 acres of public
lands belonging to the said fund in payment of interest accrued
on the first mortgage bonds, for the debt of which bonds Yulee
and Dickerson and associates were liable as stockholders of
the company, that thus the trustees not only received those
bonds and cancelled them, in violation of law, before their
principal had become due, but likewise conveyed the land
to Yulee and Dickerson and associates on the pretence that
the interest of the same was due and demandable of them,
the said trustees, and was a charge upon the said fund, and

JOHNSON v. WEST INDIA TRANSIT CO.
Statement of the Case.

then really paid to Yulee and Dickerson and associates representing the company a large and valuable consideration
for paying their own or the company's debt, that since
the alleged purchase of the road Yulee and Dickerson and
associates had continued in the possession, management, and
ownership of the railroad as before, and that Yulee had
directed its affairs and. received its funds, that at the time
of the sale the iron rails on the road were worth in cash a
sum greater than the purchase money paid for the road, and
that all the property of the company was then, at the time of
the sale, worth not less than $1,000,000, that the internal improvement trust was a public trust, and that Yulee and Dickerson and associates had express notice thereof, that it was
pretended by Yulee and Dickerson and associates that the road
was seized and sold by the trustees because of the inability
and failure of the company to pay the one per cent per
annum due the sinking fund, when, in reality, the company
was able to pay the same, and its failure so to do was the act
and default of the persons who controlled it and who procured its seizure and sale in the interest of Yulee and Dickerson and associates, that the persons pretending to be governor, comptroller, treasurer, attorney general, and register
of state lands, and, as such officers, trustees of the said fund,
were without authority as such trustees, that such persons,
having been placed in office under an unconstitutional exercise of power by the .President of the United States, were
without lawful authority to exercise the functions of their
respective offices, that, therefore, the seizure and sale of the
railroad as aforesaid were not only an intrusion and a trespass,
but that such sale and the said purchase were absolutely void,
that all that was paid by Yulee and his associates for the
railroad at the sale thereof was a check for $26,000 and about
$1,000,000 of first mortgage bonds, the principal of which
was not due until 1892, which bonds were bought either by
or for Yulee and his associates at about 20 per cent of their
face value, that those bonds, at the time they were procured
to be sold and bought by Yulee and his associates for the
purpose of obtaining the said sale, had not been sold in the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

manner required by law, but had been hypothecated by the
company to effect a loan of money and to secure the repayinent of the same, and were subject to hypothecation at the
time they were so purchased, and that the holders of the bonds
were not then demanding payment of the same, but were
induced to sell them by the representations of Yulee, which
the complainant believed to be untrue and to have been made
with fraudulent intent, that the road could not be put in running order after the injuries it had sustained during the war
without an advance of capital by the holders of the bonds, and
that it was not then in condition to pay operating expenses.
The prayers of the bill were that the court might decree
that the second mortgage bonds held by the complainant constituted a lien on the property of the Florida Railroad Company, that the complainant had a right to enter upon the
property and sell or otherwise dispose of the same for the
payment of the principal and interest of his bonds, that inasmuch as the trustees of those bonds had failed and refused to
perform their duties, the powers confided to them should be
executed by the court, that the sale made by the trustees of
the internal improvement fund was without authority and
absolutely null and void, and in no way affected the complainant's right to have the property disposed of for the satisfaction
or the said second mortgage bonds, that the persons who pretended to act as governor, comptroller, treasurer, attorney
general, and register of state lands, and ; as such, to be trustees
of the internal improvement fund, did not hold such offices,
in law, and therefore that the pretended sale by them of the
road was void, that if such sale of the property was valid for
any purpose, the purchase thereof inured to the benefit of the
stockholders, bondholders, and other creditors of the company,
and of the internal improvement fund, that at the time of
the sale the railroad was not a completed road within the
meaning of the internal improvement act, and therefore that
the interest which had then accrued on the first mortgage
bonds was not a charge upon the railroad, and that the same
was not liable, under the provisions of the said act, to seizure
and sale, that, either in the event that such interest should be

JOHNSON v. WEST INDIA TRANSIT CO.
Statement of the Case.

'decided by the court to be payable out of the said fund, or in
the event that it should be decided to be a charge upon the
railroad, the complainant had a right to pay the interest due
on the outstanding first mortgage bonds, and to redeem the
road for the satisfaction of his demands, that the said compames be foreclosed of all equity of redemption in the prop-erty, and that the same be sold for the payment of the
-complainant's bonds, subject to the lien of the principal of
the first mortgage bonds.
The complainant further prayed for an injunction to restrain
the defendant company and others from receiving the income
-of the road and directing the business of the same, and for
the appointment of a receiver to collect such income and to
manage the business of the road under the orders of the court.
September 11, 1873, the said complainant filed an amended
bill, making George H. Dawson, executor of William Phelan,
,deceased, a party defendant, showing that Phelan had been
the holder of certain bonds of the Florida Railroad Company,
known as the southern section bonds, and asserting that the
lien of the same upon the said property was inferior to that
of the bonds held by the complainant.
On the same day Mark A. Knowlden, stating himself to
be an executor of the said William Phelan, deceased, filed a
-cross-bill relating to the same southern section bonds described
m the complainant Johnson's amended bill, which bonds, as
.alleged, were secured by a deed of trust on the portion of the
Florida railroad between Waldo and Tampa. Upon this bill
no proceedings appear to have been had.
The defendant Dickerson did not put in an answer to the
-complainant's bill, but on September 26, 1873, he filed an affidavit containing, among other things, the following statement
"At the time of the purchase the road was entirely destroyed
for many miles, the iron being removed to other roads and
States, and the whole wood superstructure was decayed or
destroyed and worthless. There were very few cars on the
road, and the few that were there were entirely worthless,
-and not one of them is now in existence. The purchasers
-rebuilt the road, purchased an entirely new rolling stock, built

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

and furnished with new machinery the workshops and other
needed buildings, there being none at either end of the road,
and set the road in operation. In doing this the purchasers
have expended more than five hundred thousand dollars more
than the road has received by way of earnings from all sources
whatever, and not one dollar has been repaid to any of the
parties whose money has been expended in this work." He
further stated that from the time of the purchase of the road
to the filing of the complainants' bill no demand was ever
made by the complainants in the case, or by any one, upon
the owners of the road for payment of the second mortgage
bonds, and that he never thought, or heard it suggested, that
any such claim would be made, that the deed of trust to
Stewart and Conkling, executed by the purchasers of the road,
was duly recorded in every county in Florida in which the
road existed, and that those trustees had endorsed a large
number of bonds, which were sold to various bona fide
holders, and whlich were then outstanding, secured by the said
deed of trust. He further stated that the road was in the
possession of the company defendant and not of Yulee, the
vice-president of the company, or of any other person.
On the same day Yulee filed an affidavit, in which he
denied the essential allegations of the complainant's bill. He
afterwards embodied the substance of his affidavit in his
answer.
On September 27, 1873, the case was considered by Bradley, Circuit Justice, as to the complainant's motion for an
injunction and the appointment of a receiver of the road, and
the motion was denied.
The Atlantic, Gulf and West India Transit Company filed
its answer on November 3, 1873, in which it denied, on
information and belief, all the allegations of the bill which
charged the Florida Railroad Company, the trustees of the
internal improvement fund, and others with fraud, and
denied that they had done any act in fraud of the complainant or any other bondholder or creditor of the Florida Railroad Company
The said defendant company averred that
until the bill was filed it never heard that any of the bond-

JOHNSON v. WEST INDIA TRANSIT CO.
Statement of the Case.

holders claimed that it was indebted to them, or that it held
the property subject to the lien of the bonds, although the
holders of almost all of the bonds had been in communication
with the defendants. It further averred that the road was in
its possession exclusively, and not in the possession or control
oft Yulee or any other person, and that Yulee had no authority over the road, except such as he derived from the company as one of its officers.
John McRae, surviving trustee of the second mortgage
bonds, in his answer filed July 22, 1874, denied, in answer to
the allegations of the bill, that he had neglected and refused
to resist the sale of the road, or to have it set aside as fraudulent, and averred that until he saw such allegations he never
heard it intimated or suggested, to the best of his recollection,
that there was any fraud or irregularity in the sale by the
trustees of the internal improvement fund, and that, therefore, the charge that he refused to interfere concerning the
sale was untrue.
The answer of David L. Yulee was filed December 3, 1874.
This defendant referred to the fifth section of the internal
improvement act, and stated that, as the road of the Florida
R~ailroad Company authorized by its charter, and determined
upon by a competent engineer and by the directors of the
company, was upon the route from Amelia Island to Cedar
Key, in the direction of Tampa Bay, the company gave
notice to the trustees of the internal improvement fund of its
full acceptance of the provisions of the act, and specified the
line from Amelia Island. to Cedar Key as the part of the road
which it proposed to construct, that soon after such notification it entered into a contract for the construction of this
portion of the road, in which contract it was stipulated that
the contractors should receive the bonds which were to be
issued under the said act, that all the bonds authorized by
the act were issued, that under the said contract the road
from Amelia Island to Cedar Key was built, that the object
of the act amending the company'q charter was to enable it
to construct the remainder of the line to Tampa, which it
designed to do as soon as it had completed the line to Cedar

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Key and was able to provide the means necessary for the
work, that upon the completion of the road from Amelia
Island to Cedar Key the said trustees regarded it as a completed road under the said act and under the charter of the
company, that the company was liable thereafter for the
sinking fund charges and interest, and that the compa4y,
believing that such were its obligations, paid several instalments of sinking fund charges, and also a due proportion
of its net earnings, as required by law, down to August, 1864,
as the defendant believed.
The defendant Yulee then described the dilapidated and
impoverished condition of the road, caused by the interruption of business brought about by the war, and the great
injury done the road by acts of the opposing armies, and
averred that he used every means in his power to comply
with the requirements of the internal improvement act and to
prevent the sale of the road which he feared would be necessary lHe denied that he procured an order for the sale, that
he agreed with the trustees that the road should be purchased
for an amount sufficient to pay 20 per cent of the outstanding first mortgage bonds, that the failure to make payment
to the sinking fund was with intent to procure the seizure of
the road and its purchase by Dickerson and associates, and he
averred that, on the contrary, the sale of the road was caused
by its wrecked condition, and the failure of the company to
obtain means to extricate itself from the situation in which
it was left by the war. lHe denied that any of the first mortgage bonds were unissued and held an hypothecation for the
company, or that any of such bonds were used for any other
purposes than those contemplated by law, and averred that
all of the said bonds were issued by the company, under its
contract for the building of the road, in payment for the
bridges and other structures crossing the marshes and waters
of Amelia River, and for iron and equipments put on the
railroad. He denied, further, that the defendant company
was identical with the original Florida Railroad Company, or
was in any way connected with the transactions or obligations of the same, that lands conveyed to Soutter and McRae,

JOHNSON v. WEST INDIA TRANSIT CO.
Statement of the Case.

trustees, had been suffered by MkcRae to be fraudulently and
collusively sold for the benefit of the defendant Yulee, that
the property on the road was worth at the time of the sale
$1,000,000, or even, m cash, the sum of $323,000, for which
it was sold, and denied that he was one of the persons included in the designation Edward N. Dickerson and associates.
On March 17, 1877, W W Corcoran was made a party
defendant, and on the 2d of the following month he filed his
bill, alleging his ownership of certain of the second mortgage
bonds of the Florida Railroad Company, the principal of which
was due on March 1, 1877, and upon which interest was due
from March 1, 1860. He stated that he adopted all of the
statements and allegations of the original bill filed by Johnson,
and asked that he might be admitted to share in the relief
therein prayed.
John H. Stewart and Frederick Conkling, trustees named
in the deed of trust executed for the benefit of the holders of
bonds issued by the purchasers at the said sale of the railroad
property, were made parties defendant on October 16, 1877,
and on the following day they filed their answer, which was
devoted mainly to showing that it would be inequitable for
the complainants to profit by their own laches, and to enjoy
the advantages derived from the sale of the bonds to secure
which the said deed of trust was made to the respondents, and
thus to deprive the innocent holders of those bonds of the
security upon which the loan was made.
These parties also filed a cross-bill, on October 17, 1877,
averring therein that they had accepted their trust in good
faith, and without notice of any pretended claim on the property by the complainant in the original bill, that the bonds
issued by the purchasers of the road were issued properly,
and that the value thereof was greatly impaired by the pretended lien of the said second mortgage bondholders. They
therefore prayed for a decree that the deed of trust to them
was a valid conveyance, that the holders of the second mortgage bonds be required to resort to lands in the hands of the
said McRae, trustee, that the suit be dismissed, and that the
complainants Johnson and Corcoran be enjoined from seeking

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

to enforce their pretended lien. Upon this cross-bill no subpcena was issued nor proceedings had.
The Atlantic, Gulf and West India Transit Company, on
August 29, 1877, filed its answer to Corcoran's bill, ia which
answer, among other things, it set out that Corcoran was fully
informed of all the essential transactions at the time they
were made, upon which the claims of himself and Johnson
were based, and had chosen to sleep upon his rights, and stated
that, therefore, Corcoran ought not to be permitted, after a
silence of about ten years, to come into court with charges of
fraud against the participants in those transactions.
Replications were duly made to all of the said answers, and
the taking of testimony was begun on November 8, 1877.
On June 13, 1883, Bella A. Johnson, executrix of Robert
H. Johnson, deceased, W W Corcoran, and others presented
to the said court a bill styled by them a bill of supplement,
revivor, and amendment, seeking to bring in additional plaintiffs and defendants, and setting up matters which, as the
complainants averred, had only come to their knowledge since
the filing of their said bills, namely, that on November 10,
1879, there was submitted to the Secretary of the Interior of
the United States by the Florida Railroad Company, attempting to secure the advantages of certain laws relative to govermnent land grants to certain railroads, a map, and evidence
showing that a map of definite location of the company's road
from Waldo to Tampa had been filed in the Secretary's office
by the company on December 14, 1860, (which map had been
lost,) and that the map last presented was a duplicate of the
original map, that thereupon the Secretary of the Interior
had approved the map and the original location and survey,
and had directed that the necessary withdrawal of United
States lands be made to secure the proper adjustment of the
grant along the original line of the road, that this withdrawal
was made on March 26, 1881. It was alleged that the company, having performed within the proper time such work on
the road between Waldo and Tampa as was required by the
internal improvement act, became entitled to land along the
road that therefore the trustees of the second mortgage bonds

JOHNSON v. WEST INDIA TRANSIT CO.
Opmuon of the Court.

became entitled to such land, and to hold the same for the
benefit of the holders of those bonds, and subject to the lien
thereof, that on March 1, 1859, the Florida Railroad Company issued other bonds, known as southern extension bonds,
attempted to be secured by a deed of trust executed to James
E. Broome, who was succeeded as trustee by S. A. Swann,
that such bonds were inferior to the said second mortgage
bonds, which constituted a first lien on the constructed portion
of the road between Waldo and Tampa, on the franchise necessary for its operation, and on all the land granted or to be
granted by the United States in aid of* the construction of
the road. Relief was asked appropriate to these allegations.
Leave to file this bill was denied by the court.
On December 't, 1887, after a hearing upon the bills,
answers, and evidence, the bills of the complainants were
dismissed. The case was then brought here on appeal.
-Mr George F Curti, .r
WTilkmnson Call, and Air A. H'.
Garlandfor appellants. .Mr leber J 2fay was on their brief.
-Mr A. HI. Wintersteem, (with whom was t1r John A. Henderson on the brief,) for appellees.

Mn.

JUsTcE SHiRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
On the 21st day of August, 1873, Robert H. Johnson, a
citizen of the State of New York, filed, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Florida, a
bill of complaint against the Atlantic, Gulf and West India
Transit Company, a corporation of the State of Florida, the
Florida Railroad Company, and other persons.
The complainant alleged that he was the owner of two
bonds of one thousand dollars each, made by the Florida Railroad Company, dated March 1, 1856, payable on March 1,
1891, and secured by a second mortgage on the railroad,
franchises, and property of said company, and which bonds,
with interest thereon, were due and unpaid.
The object of the bill was to set aside and have declared

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

null and void a sale of the property and franchises of the,
Florida Railroad Company, made on November 1, 1866, by
the trustees of the internal improvement fund, in pursuance of'
the provisions of the acts of assembly under which the company was incorporated, and possessed its rights and property
It appears that after said sale a deed, bearing date November
3, 1866, was executed and delivered by the trustees to Edward
N Dickerson and his associates representing the purchasers
at the sale, and that subsequently the purchasers organized
themselves into a new corporation by the name of the Florida
Railroad Company This new company was reorganized January 1, 1870, under authority of an act of the legislature of
Florida of June 24, 1869, and afterwards, by an act of assembly
dated January 18, 1872, its name was changed to that of the
Atlantic, Gulf and West India Transit Company
As already stated, the original bill of Robert II. Johnson
was filed August 21, 1873 -almost seven years after the sale.
W W Corcoran filed an intervening bill alleging ownership
of some of the second mortgage bonds on April 2, 1877. In
1883, Bella A. Johnson, as executrix of Robert I. Johnson, deceased, W W Corcoran, and some new parties applied for
leave to file a supplementary bill, which was refused by the
court. In February, 1886, Karrick V Z. Riggs, Francis B.
Riggs, and William C. Riggs, of New York, filed intervening
petitions, alleging ownership of second mortgage bonds, and
praying to be admitted as parties entitled to share in the
relief prayed for.
On December 7, 1887, after final hearing, a decree was filed
dismissing the bills. On November 6, 1889, an appeal was
allowed to this court.
The principal grounds for relief stated in the bill were
illegality in the form and manner of the sale and fraud and
collusion between Dickerson, Yulee, and others, the purchasers,
sufficient to vitiate the sale, even if it were valid in form.
The charge of illegality in the sale of the railroad is based on
two particulars- first, that the power of sale given to the
trustees of the internal improvement fnind in the act approved
January 6, 1855, entitled "An act to provide for and encour-

JOHNSON v. WEST INDIA TRANSIT CO.
Opinion of the Court.

age a liberal system of internal improvements in this State,"
did not authorize a sale, even in event of a default, until after
the completion of the railroad in question, and that the said
railroad was not completed at the time of the sale, and,
secondly, because the persons who officiated as such trustees
and made the sale were not lawfully constituted officers of the
State, and their action was consequently null and void.
The original company was incorporated by an act approved
January 8, 1853, entitled "An act to incorporate a company
to construct a railroad across the peninsula of Florida, under
the style of the Florida Railroad Company" The route of the
railroad was thus designated in the second section of the act
"That the said railroad shall commence in East Florida, upon
some tributary of the Atlantic Ocean, within the limits of the
State of Florida, having a sufficient outlet to the ocean to
admit of the passage of sea steamers, and shall run through
the eastern and southern part of the State in the most eligible
direction to some point, bay, arm, or tributary of the Gulf of
Mexico in South Florida, south of the Suwanee River, having
a sufficient outlet for sea steamers, to be determined by a competent engineer, with the approval of a majority of the directors of the said company" Under this proviso a route was
selected beginning at Fernandina on Amelia Island, and terminating at Cedar Key, being on a bay of the Gulf of Mexico
and south of the Suwanee River.
Afterwards the general improvement act of January 6, 1855,
was passed, in the fourth section of which were enumerated
certain lines of railroad as proper improvements to be aided m
manner provided in said law, and among them "a line from
Amelia Island on the Atlantic to the waters of Tampa Bay, in
South Florida, with an extension to Cedar Key" The fifth
section of the act provided that the several railroad companies
then organized or chartered by the legislature, or that might
thereafter be chartered, any portion of whose routes, as authorized by their different charters and amendments, should be
within the lines or routes laid down in section four, should
have the right and privilege of constructing that part of the
line embraced by their charter, on giving notice to the trustees
VOL. CLvi-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of the internal improvement fund of their full acceptance of
the provisions of said act, specifying the part of the route they
proposed to construct. The Florida Railroad Company, it is
undeniably shown, gave such notice of acceptance, specifying
the line from Amelia Island to Cedar Key as the part of the
route which it proposed to construct, and, on June 11, 1855,
entered into a contract with Joseph Finegan & Company,
whereby the latter agreed to construct a railroad from Fernandina, on Amelia Island, to Cedar Key, in all respects conformable to the requirements of the general improvement act
of January 6, 1855.
Afterwards, in December, 1855, the legislature authorized
the Florida Railroad Company to " construct the railroad from
Amelia Island, on the Atlantic, to the waters of Tampa Bay,
in South Florida, with an extension to Cedar Key, in East
Florida, under the provisions of the act approved January 6,
1855."
The line between Amelia Island and Cedar Key was completed in 1861.
The general improvement act of January 6, 1855, authorized
companies accepting its provisions to issue first mortgage bonds
at the rate of $10,000 per mile, which bonds were to be countersigned by the state treasurer and the trustees. It was further provided that the railroad company should pay to the
trustees of the improvement fund fifty per cent of its net receits every six months, to be applied by the trustees towards
the payment of the interest on the bonds of the company, and
should further pay, after the completion of the road, to the
trustees at least one-half of one per cent on the amount of
indebtedness or bond account as a sinking fund.
Upon the failure of any railroad company accepting the provisions of the act to provide interest on the bonds issued by it
and the percentage for the sinking fund, it was made the duty
of the trustees, after the expiration of thirty days from said
default or refusal, to take possession of said railroad and all its
property and to advertise the same for sale at public auction
to the highest bidder, either for cash or approved security, as
they might think most advantageous, the proceeds to be ap-

JOHNSON v. WEST INDIA TRANSIT CO.
Opinion of the Court.

plied to the purchase and cancelling of outstanding bonds, but
the purchasers of the road to be bound to continue the payment of one per cent into the sinking fund until all the outstanding bonds should be discharged.
In pursuance of these provisions and of the contracts of
June, 1855, the Florida Railroad Company issued and paid
over to the contractors and their successors, from time to
time as the work progressed, all its first mortgage bonds, secured by a mortgage on its railroad from Fernandina to Cedar
Key, and also a portion of its bonds, secured by a mortgage
which was a second lien on the railroad from Fernandina to
Cedar Key, but a first lien on certain town sites and other
lands belonging to the company
As heretofore stated, the road from Fernandina to Cedar
Key was completed in 1861, and, the company having failed
to pay its interest, the trustees of the internal improvement
fund took possession of the road, and sold it at auction to the
highest and best bidder as provided for in the act of 1855.
The contention now is that such sale was void, because the
road between Fernandina and Cedar Key was not the road
designated and pointed out, in the various acts of the legislature, as the one on whose completion and after default the
trustees were authorized to sell, that the road intended should
extend from Fernandina to Tampa Bay
We think that this contention has not been successfully
maintained. No doubt, some of the language used in the act
of 1853 and in the amendatory act of December, 1855, might
be read as indicating or designating Tampa Bay as the western terminus of the railroad, and Cedar Key as the terminus
of a branch or extension. Yet the history of the legislation
and of the transactions thereunder satisfactorily shows that
such a construction was not put upon the acts of incorporation, either by the company itself, by the contractors who constructed the road, by the trustees of the internal improvement
fund, or by the State of Florida.
As we have seen, the company, in accepting the benefits of
the act of January 6, 1855, designated the road which they
intended to build as extending from Amelia Island in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

direction of Tampa, as far as a point proper for divergence, to
Cedar Key, and from said diverging point to Cedar Key In
the same letter of acceptance it was further said that if the
amendment to their charter then pending in the legislalure

(meaning the act of December, 1855) were granted, they
would also construct the balance of the road to Tampa.
Before the act of December, 1855, was passed the company
contracted for the construction of the road from Fernandina
to Cedar Key, and agreed to pay the contractors with first
mortgage bonds upon that road, and these bonds and mortgage
were issued accordingly Subsequently the company made
separate contracts for the construction of the route from the
diverging point to Tampa and put a distinct mortgage upon it.
The railroad company, upon the completion of its road to
Cedar Kev, and the trustees of the improvement fund, recognized this as a road completed under the provisions of the act
of 1855, the one by paying and the other by receiving the
interest and the sinking fund charges on the first mortgage
bonds from March, 1861, to November 5, 1863, when default
was made.
The contractors agreed to build the road as an entirety from
Fernandina, or Amelia Island, to Cedar Key, and accepted
in payment, and sold to the public, bonds of the company,
secured by a first mortage thereon.
The trustees of the improvement fund not only recognized
these first mortgage bonds as securities coming within the
provisions of the act of 1855 by receiving and applying the
interest paid them by the company, but, at last, in 1866, took
possession of the road and franchises, as they were empowered
to do in the act, and sold them to parties, who organized a
new company
Finally, the State of Florida, by its act of January 18, 1872,
recognized the new company as one owning the property
formerly belonging to the Florida Railroad Company, and
authorized its change of names.
The second ground relied on by the appellants, as invalidating the regularity of the sale, is the allegation that the
persons who acted as trustees of the internal improvement

JOHNSON v. WEST INDIA TRANSIT CO.
Opinion of the Court.

fund, in taking possession of the railroad and selling it, were
not legally entitled to act as such, that they were not really
officers of the State of Florida.
The second section of the act of January 6, 1855, declares
that the governor of the State, the comptroller of public
accounts, the state treasurer, the attorney general, and the
register of state lands, and their successors in office, shall
constitute the trustees to act under the provisions of the act.
And we are asked to take notice of the historical facts of the
civil war, and that the state government of Florida, in 1866,
was declared by the act of March 2, 1867, to be illegal, and
that between the outbreak of the rebellion and the adoption
by the people of Florida, in May, 1868, of a new constitution,
there was an interim or interregnum, during which there were
no state officers in Florida qualified and competent to exercise
the powers and duties of trustees of the internal improvement
fund in accordance with the provisions of the act of 1855.
This contention is disposed of by referring to the well-settled
doctrine, affirmed in repeated decisions of this court, that "the
acts of the several States, in their individual capacities and of
their different departments of government- executive, judicial, and legislative - during the war, so far as they did not
impair, or tend to impair, the supremacy of the National
authority or the just rights of citizens under the Constitution,
are, in general, to be treated as valid and binding. The existence of a state of insurrection and war did not loosen the
bonds of society or do away with civil government, or the
regular administration of the laws. Order was to be preserved,
police regulations maintained, crime prosecuted, property protected, contracts enforced, marriages celebrated, estates settled,
and the transfer and descent of property regulated, precisely as
in time of peace. No one that we are aware of seriously questions the validity of judicial or legislative acts in the insurrectionary States touching these and kindred subjects when they
were not hostile in their purpose or mode of enforcement to the
authority of the National government, and did not impair the
rights of citizens under the Constitution." Horn v Lockhart,
17 Wall. 570, 580.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894..
Opinion of the Court.

In pott
r
v Uted States, 20 Wall. 459, 464, the same views
were expressed The insurgent States "merely transferred the
existing state organizations to the support of a new and different national head. The same constitutions, the same laws for
the protection of property and personal rights, remained, and
were administered by the same officers. These laws, necessary in their recognition and administration to the existence
of organized society, were the same, with slight exceptions,
whether the authorities of the State acknowledged allegiance to
the true or false Federal power. They were the fundamental
principles for which civil society is organized into government in all countries, and must be respected in their administration under whatever temporary dominant authority they
may be exercised. It is only when in the use of these powers
substantial aid and comfort were given or intended to be given
to the rebellion, when the functions necessarily reposed in the
State for the maintenance of civil society were perverted to
the manifest and intentional aid of treason against the government of the Union, that their acts are void."
Without further citation or consideration, we conclude that
the act of the trustees in selling this railroad in November,
1866, cannot be impeached for want of power to act.
It is next claimed on behalf of the appellants that the sale
and conveyance of the railroad were voidable by reason of the
alleged fraud and collusion of the defendants Yulee, Dickerson, and their associates, conspiring together to procure the
default of the Florida Railroad Company in the payment of
its interest, and thus to bring about the sale of the road.
We do not feel constrained to enter at length into a discussion of the evidence adduced under this part of the case. We
have, however, examined the evidence and considered it in the
light of the verbal and printed arguments on behalf of the
appellants, but we are unable to see that the complainants
have overcome the direct, positive, and responsive answers of the
several defendants. As against those answers the complainants have adduced very little, if any, satisfactory proof. The
weight of the evidence, apart from the evidential character of
the answers, is clearly to the effect that the railroad, at the

JOH1NSON v. WEST INDIA TRANSIT CO.
Opinion of. the Court.

time of the sale, was m a thoroughly dilapidated condition, and
that, in view of such condition and of the state of the country,
the price realized was not inadequate.
The court below, in dismissing the bills, proceeded chiefly
on the ground that the complainants had lost whatever rights
they might have had by their gross laches. In this view of
the case we fully concur.
Robert R]. Johnson did not file his bill till nearly seven
years had elapsed from the time of the sale, and he gives no
satisfactory explanation of his delay Within that tune, m
MJay, 1869, a mortgage had been issued by the new company
to Stewart and Conkling as trustees, and who are parties defendant by intervention. This mortgage was to secure an issue
of bonds amounting to $2,300,000, the proceeds of which have
gone into the reconstruction and equipment of the railroad.
Those trustees and the purchasers and holders of those bonds
must be deemed bon, rids purchasers, without notice of the
claim of the complainants. The other complainants, Corcoran
and Riggs, did not come into the case till it had been pending
for years. iNeither do they or Johnson give any explanation
of their long delay They do not aver any concealment of the
facts as they existed at the time of the sale of the road in 1866.
They do not aver, much less prove, that they were in ignorance of those facts, or that they were in anywise prevented
or impeded from ascertaining the facts or from instituting
proceedings.
In Galliker v Cadwell, 145 U. S. 368, 372, this court said
"In ilarwood v Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 78, a delay of five
years on the part of stockholders in a railroad company in
bringing suit to set aside judicial proceedings, regular on their
face, under which the railroad property was sold, was held inexcusable. In Twin 2ick Oil Co. v -3flrbury,91 U. S. 587, a
director of a corporation who had loaned money to it, and subsequently bought its property at a fair public sale by a trustee,
was protected in his title as against the corporation, suing four
years thereafter to hold him as trustee of the property for its
benefit, it appearing that in the meantime the property purchased had increased rapidly in value. In Brown v County

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of Buena Vista, 95 U S. 157, a county was held barred by its
laches from maintaining, at the end of seven years, a suit to
set aside a judgment fraudulently obtained against it, and
that, too, though it did not affirmatively appear that the
supervisors of the county had knowledge of the existence of
the judgment till about twenty months before the commencement of the suit
The cases all proceed upon the
theory that laches is not, like limitation, a mere matter of time,
but principally a question of the inequity of permitting the
claim to be enforced -an inequity founded upon some change
in the condition or relations of the property or the parties."
In Johnston v Standard -MimingCo., 148 U S. 360, it was said
"The law is well settled that where the question of laches is
in issue, the plaintiff is chargeable with such knowledge as he
might have obtained upon inquiry, provided the facts already
known by him were such as to put upon a man of ordinary
intelligence the duty of inquiry This principle was applied
in Foster v -Mansfield &e. Railway, 146 U. S. 88, to a
case where a stockholder in a railway company sought to set
aside the sale of the road, which had taken place ten years
before, when the facts upon which he relied to vacate the sale
were of record, and within easy reach.
Where property has been developed by the courage and energy, and at
the expense of the defendants, courts will look with disfavor upon the claims of those who have lain idle while awaiting the results of this development, and will require not
only clear proof of fraud but prompt assertion of plaintiff's
rights."
We are thus brought to the conclusion that the appellants
have not sustained their claim that the action of the trustees
in making the sale of the railroad was void either from a mistake in interpreting the meaning of the statutes or from any
want of power as official persons, that they have likewise
failed to show by preponderating evidence any fraud or collusion on the part of Dickerson and his associates in their purchase
of the Florida railroad, and, finally, that they are precluded
by the long and unexplained lapse of time between the acts
complained of and the institution of legal proceedings from

ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY v. GILL.

649

Statement of the Case.

maintaining such proceedings as against innocent third parties
whose interests have become involved.
The decree of the court below dismissing the bills of complaint is

Affirmed.
ST. LOUIS AND SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY
COMPANY v. GILL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 13. Argued January 24, 1895.-Decided March 4, 1595.

A special statutory exemption or privilege (such as immunity from taxation
or a right to fix and determine rates of fare) does not accompany the
property of a railroad company in its transfer to a purchaser, in the
absence of an express direction in the statute to that effect.
When a state legislature establishes a tariff of railroad rates so unreasonable as to practically destroy the value of the property of companies
engaged in the carrying business, courts of the' United States may treat
it as a 3udicial question, and hold such legislation to be in conflict with
the Constitution of the United States, as depriving the company of its
property without due process of law, and as depriving it of the equal
protection of the laws.
RailroadCommission Cases, 116 U. S. 307 Dow v Beidelman, 125 U. S. 681,
Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Railway v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418, Chicago &
Grand Trunk Bailway v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339 , and Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, examined in detail.
When, by legislation and consolidation, a railroad which was originally all
in one State becomes consolidated with other roads in other States, and
the State originally incorporating it enacts laws to regulate the rates of
the consolidated road-within its borders, the proper test as to the
reasonableness of these rates is as to their effect upon the consolidated
line as a whole.
When a State prescribes rates for a railroad, only a part of which is within
its borders, the company may raise the question of their reasonableness by
way of defence to an action for the recovery of penalties for violating
the directions.

ON the 16th day of August, 1880, under the general laws
of the State of Arkansas, a company was incorporated under
the name and style of the St. Louis, Arkansas and Texas

