WINTER v. MONTGOMERY.
Statement of the Case.

WINTER v. MONTGOMERY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAIA.
No. 533. Submitted February 4, 1895.-Decided March 4, 1895.

Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361, affirmed and followed.
MOTION to dismiss, coupled with which was a motion to
affirm. The grounds for the motion, as stated by the counsel
for the defendant in error, were substantially as follows
The plaintiff in error filed in the chancery court of Montgomery County, Alabama, an original and amended bill against
the defendant in error. The defendant made no answer to
these bills, but moved their dismissal on the ground that they
were "without equity" This motion was sustained, and
decrees rendered by the chancery court dismissing the bills.
On appeal to the Supreme Court of Alabama the decrees were
affirmed by the judgment.
It is alleged by the complainant in substance that the pavement adjacent to certain property in the city of Montgomery,
Alabama, held by hin as trustee of his wife, M ary E. Winter,
had been taken up by him, the entire sidewalk excavated,
apartments for business purposes constructed in the excavation
so made, and a new pavement laid, and that this was done by
permission of the city council of Montgomery (defendant in
error) as evidenced by a report of a special committee, dated
July, 1870. It is further set forth that after the complainant
had been for many years in the use of the improvements so
made, the city authorities removed the pavement and the structure underneath, filled in the excavation, put down a new and
different kind of pavement, known as the "Schillinger pavement," and have since excluded the complainant from the use
of the space underneath the pavement in connection with the
building adjacent, and that great damage has resulted from
these acts of the city authorities.
It appears, also, from the original bill that the city authorities committed the alleged wrongs complained of on the
VOL. cLvI-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

ground, as they claimed, that the sidewallc was out of repair
and dangerous for passengers, and that it could only be
properly repaired in the way they had done, that complainant had several times during a period of more than a
year attempted to make the suggested repairs, but that the
authorities had prevented his doing so, and had insisted on
replacing the old pavement by the Schillinger pavement.
Among the errors assigned on the appeal to the Supreme
Court of Alabama from the decrees of the chancery court
were the following
"3. The court erred in not holding that the ordinance of
the city council of Montgomery, as set out as Exhibit ' C'
to the origmal bill, impaired the obligation of the contract set
out as Exhibit I B ' to the bill.
"4. The court erred in not holding that the acts of the city
council, respondent, as set out in said bill, deprived the complainant and Mary E. Winter, the owner of the corpus, of the
interest and property described ' without due process of law ' "
Afr Edward A.

Graham and Jir L. A. Shaver for the

motions.
Mir J. E. Patne and X- J S. Winter opposing.
TnE CHIEF JUSTIcE The writ of error is dismissed on the
authority of Eutsts v Bolles, 150 U S. 361, and cases cited.
Dzsm ssed.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY
v. BROWN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 632. Submitted February 4, 1S95. - Decided March 4, 1895.

AtcLzsh v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661, and Chicago, St. Paul &c. Railway v. Roberts,
141 U. S. 690, affirmed to the point that this Court has no jurisdiction to

