OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

BATCHELOR v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MONTANA.
No. 75. Argued January 23, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 1S95.

The offence of wilfully misapplying by the president of the funds of a
national bank, in violation of section 5209 of the Revised Statutes, is not
sufficiently set forth by an indictment alleging that the defendant, as the
president of a national bank, wilfully misapplied a certain sum, of the
moneys, funds and credits of the bank, in the manner following, to wit,
that the defendant, without the knowledge or consent of the bank, or of
its board of directors, and knowing himself and another person named
to be insolvent and worthless, procured of the latter divers pronissory
notes, some of them endorsed by the defendant, but all without other
security, "with which said notes, by and through the device and pretence of discounting the same, and making loans thereon, and with the
proceeds of said loans so made thereon and thereby obtained by him,"
knowing those notes " to be inadequate security for the moneys so
obtained," he took up and satisfied his indebtedness to the bank, that
" thereafter in turn, by substituting the notes of" the defendant, sometimes endorsed by the other person, and sometimes by some third person named, the defendant, knowing these notes to be inadequate security
for the sums they represented, and they having with them no other
security, took up and cancelled and pretended to pay to the bank the
indebtedness created to it by him as aforesaid, and that the defendant
"did from time to time, by the fraudulent device and means aforesaid,
as well as by passing differences between the face of said various notes
and the indebtedness aforesaid, which they were from time to time to
satisfy, to the credit of" the defendant to the bank, upon the accounts
of the bank, gradually increase tha amount of his actual indebtedness to
the bank, " all of which said sums were misapplied wilfully, and in the
manner aforesaid, out of the moneys, funds and credits of" the bank,
and were converted to the defendant's use, benefit and advantage, with
the intention to injure and defraud the bank and its depositors and other
persons doing business with it.

THE defendant, Harry F Batchelor, was indicted on section

5209 of the Revised Statutes, for wilfully misapplying the
moneys, funds and credits of a national bank of which he was
the president and a director and agent, and was found guilty
by the jury upon the second count, which was as follows.
"And the grand jurors aforesaid, upon their oaths and

BATCHELOR v. UITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

affirmations aforesaid, do farther find and present that the,
said Harry F Batchelor, on the first day of January, 1891,
and at divers times and dates between January 1, 1891, and
July 8, 1893, was then and there the president and a director
and agent of a certain national banking association, to wit,
the Stock Growers' National Bank of Miles City, theretofore
duly organized and established and then existing and doing
business in the city of M iles City, in the circuit and district
aforesaid, under the laws of the United States of America, did
then and there, at the time aforesaid, within the said district,
as such president, director, and agent, by virtue of such employment and while so employed, wilfully misapply forty
thousand four hundred and twenty-two dollars and seventynine cents, of the moneys, funds and credits then and there
belonging to and the property of said association, in the manner following, to wit That the said Harry F Batchelor, without the knowledge or consent of the said association or the
board of directors thereof, he then and there and at all times
well knowing both himself and the said John W Batchelor,
hereinafter named, to be insolvent and worthless, did then and
there procure of the said John W Batchelor divers promissory
notes payable to said*association, some of which were endorsed
by him, the said Harry F Batchelor, but all without other or
further security; with which said notes, by and through the
device and pretence of discounting the same and making loans
thereon, and with the proceeds of said loans so made thereon
and thereby obtained by him, the said Harry F Batchelor, he
then and there knowing the said promissory notes to be inadequate security for the moneys so obtained, he did from time
to time, during the period aforesaid, take up and satisfy .the
individual indebtedness of him, the said Harry F Batchelor,
to the said association, and thereafter in turn, by substituting
the notes of him, the said Harry F Batchelor, to said association, sometimes endorsed by John W Batchelor, or by one
William Harmon or by one George Newman or by one C. L.
Merrill, he, the said Harry F Batchelor, then and there well
knowing the said notes to be inadequate security for the sums
they represented, and the said notes never having with thenm

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

any other security, he did then and there take up and cancel
and pretend to pay to the said association the indebtedness so
created to said association by John W Batchelor as aforesaid,
and did from time to time, by the fraudulent device and means
aforesaid, as well as by passing differences between the face
of said various notes and the indebtedness aforesaid, which
they were from time to time to satisfy, to the credit of him,
the said Harry F Batchelor, upon the accounts of said association, gradually increase the amount of the actual indebtedness
of him, the said Harry F Batchelor, to the said association,
all-of which said sums were misapplied wilfully, and in the
manner aforesaid, out of the moneys, funds and credits of said
association, and converted then and there to the use, benefit
and advantage of said Harry F Batchelor, with the intention
then and there had and having in him, the said Harry A.
Batchelor, to injure and defraud the said association, its depositors, and other persons, corporations and firms, then doing or
who mioght thereafter do business with the said association,
contrary to the form of the statute in such case made and provided, and against the peace and dignity of the United States
of America."
The defendant moved in arrest of judgment, because this
count did "not state a public offence against the laws of
the United States." The court overruled the motion, and
the defendant alleged exceptions, and sued out this writ
of error.
_Mr John'
.T
21organ for plaintiff in error. _Mr Joseph
K Toole and .A, TV' E. Callen were with him on the brief.
.Afr Assistant Attorney General Conrad for defendants
in error.
M[R. JUsTicE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.

By the statute on which the defendant was indicted and
convicted, "every president, director, cashier, teller, clerk, or
agent of any [national banking] association, who embezzles,

BATCHELOR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

abstracts, or wilfully misapplies any of the moneys, funds
or credits of the association," "shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be imprisoned not less than five years
nor more than ten." Rev Stat. ยง 5209.
By the settled rules of criminal pleading, and by the previous decisions of this court, the words "wilfully misapplies,"
having no settled technical meaning, (such as the word "embezzle" has in the statutes, or the words "steal, take and carry
away" have at common law,) do not, of themselves, fully
and clearly set forth every element necessary to constitute
the offence intended to be punished, but they must be supplemented by further averments, showing how the misapplication was made, and that it was an unlawful one. Without
such averments, there is no sufficient description of the exact
offence with which the defendant is charged, so as to enable
hinn to defend himself against it, or to plead an acquittal
or conviction in bar of a future prosecution for the same
cause. United States v Brztton, 107 U S. 655, 661, 669,
Urnted States v Northway, 120 U S. 327, 332, 334, Evans
v United States, 153 U S. 584, 587, 588.
The general allegation, at the beginning of' the count in
question, that the defendant, on January 1, 1891, and at
divers times between that date and July 8, 1893, being president, director and agent of a certain national banking association, did, as such president, director and agent, "wilfully
misapply forty thousand four hundred and twenty-two dollars and seventy-nine cents, of the moneys, funds and credits
then and there belonging to and the property of said association, in the manner following," is rightly admitted to be
insufficient, unless the acts afterwards alleged amount to a
wilful misapplication of funds of the association, within the
meaning of the statute.
It is first alleged that the defendant, without the knowledge
or consent of the association, or of its board of directors, and
knowing himself and one John W Batchelor to be insolvent
and worthless, procured of the latter divers promissory notes
payable to the association, some of them endorsed by the
defendant, but all without other security So far, it is not

OCTOBER TERAM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

shown in what manner, or for what consideration, the defendant procured these notes, or that he be paid for them any sum
of money whatever, least of all that he procured them with
moneys, funds or credits of the association.
The indictment then proceeds, " with which said notes, by
and through the device and pretence of discounting the same
and making loans thereon, and with the proceeds of said
loans so made thereon and thereby obtained by him, the
said Harry F Batchelor, he then and there knowing the said
promissory notes to be inadequate security for the moneys
so obtained, he did from time to time, during the period aforesaid, take up and satisfy the individual indebtedness of him,
the said Harry F Batchelor, to the said association."
Here is no direct or distinct allegation who made the discounts of, or the loans upon, the notes. The allegation of
"the device and pretence of discounting the same and making loans thereon" must either mean that the discounts, as
well as the loans, were made upon all the notes, which would
make the allegation inconsistent with itself, inasmuch as when
a bank discounts a note, the note becomes its absolute property, but when a bank makes a loan of money upon a note,
it holds the note as security only for the payment of the loan,
or else it must mean that some of the notes were discounted,
and that loans were made upon the other notes, and, upon
that interpretation, does not show what part of the notes was
discounted, and upon what part loans were made. MoreoVer, it does not allege that any sums whatever were paid by
the association, or by any one else, for the discounts. As to
the loans, it does allege that " with the proceeds of said
loans so made thereon and thereby obtained by him," the
defendant, knowing those notes to be inadequate security
"for the monevs so obtained," did from time to time "take
up and satisfy the individual indebtedness of" the defendant
to the association, but it does not state, either directly or by
reference, what indebtedness of the defendant is here intended.
"The proceeds of said loans" is an ambiguous and uncertain
description, signifying what was obtained by the lender for
the loans, quite as aptly as the very money lent to the bor-

BATCHELOR v. 'UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

rower, and the further words, "and thereby obtained by
him," may have as full force by restricting them to the last
antecedent, the "said loans so made thereon," as by carrying
them back to the words, "the proceeds of" said loans. While
it is further alleged that the defendant knew those notes to
be inadequate security "for the moneys so obtained," there
is no statement whatever 6f the amount of said moneys, nor
even, as has been seen, any definite and certain allegation
that any money had been obtained at all. To call upon the
accused, or upon the court, to pick out and put together, from
such a confused and ambiguous sentence, enough to make out
a sufficient charge of unlawfully misapplying funds of the
association, would be inconsistent with the settled rules of
criminal pleading.
The rest of the indictment is yet more defective. The next
allegation is that "thereafter in turn, by substituting the
notes of" the defendant to the association, sometimes endorsed
by John W Batchelor, or by some third person named, the
defendant, knowing these nqtes to be inadequate security for
the sums they represented, and they having with them no
other security, took up and cancelled and pretended to pay
to the association the indebtedness created to it by John W
Batchelor as aforesaid. This amounts only to the substitution
of worthless notes for other notes equally worthless without, so
far as the indictment shows, the payment of any money or
-other consideration whatever.
The remaining specific allegation is that the defendant
""did from time to time, by the fraudulent device and means
aforesaid,,as well as by passing differences between the face
of said various notes and the indebtedness aforesaid, which
they were from time to time to satisfy, to the credit of him,
the said Harry F Batchelor, upon the accounts of said association, gradually increase the amount of the actual indebtedness
of him, the said Harry F Batchelor, to the said association."
As admitted by the learned attorney for the United States,
in answer to a question from the court, the clause about "passing differences" has no legal meaning, and the rest of the
.allegation does not show any use of funds of the association.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

Such being the nature and effect of the specific allegations
in the indictment as to the manner in which the defendant
acted, there are no sums clearly and sufficiently specified, to
which can be referred the concluding averment, "all of which
said sums were misapplied wilfully, and in the manner aforesaid, out of the moneys, funds and credits of said association,"
and were converted to the defendant's use, benefit and advantage, with the intention to injure and defraud the association
and its depositors and other persons and corporations doing
business with it.
Judgment reversed.

COFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT

COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
N1.741.

Argued December 6, s, 1S94.-Decided March 4, 1S95.

The offence of aiding or abetting an officer of a national bank in committing one or more of the offences set forth in Rev. Stat. ยง 5209 may be
committed by persons who are not officers or agents of the bank, and
consequently it is not necessary to aver in an indictment against such an
aider or abettor that he was an officer of the bank, or occupied any specific relation to it when committing the offence.
In an indictment for soliciting or inciting to the commission of a crime, or
for aiding or assisting in its commission, it is not necessary to state
the particulars of the incitement or solicitation, or of the aid or assistance.

The plain and unmistakable statement of this indictment as a whole is,that
the acts charged against Haughey were (lone by him as president of the
bank, and that the aiding and abetting was also knowingly (lone by assisting him in the official capacity in which alone it is charged that lie misapplied the funds.
Ttis indictment further examined and held to clearly state the misapplication and actual conversion of the money by the methods described, that
is to say by paying it out of the funds of the bank to a designated person
when that person was not entitled to take the funds, and that owing to
the insolvency of such person the money was lost to the bank.
Where there is an averment that a person or matter is unknown to a grand
jury, and no evidence upon the subject is offered by either side, and noth-

