EVERS v. WATSON.
Statement of the Case.

EVERS v. WATSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. I80. Submitted January 25, 1895. -Decided

March 4,1895.

-When it is not shown when, or at whose instance, or upon what ground a
removal of a cause from a state court was effected, and no copy of the
petition or of the substance of it is in the bill or annexed to it, everything must be presumed against the party objecting to it.
As, under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137 it was in the power of the court
to rearrange the parties and to place them on different sides according to
the actual facts, it is to be assumed that that power was exercised by
the court below, and its action in that respect is not reviewable here.
After a final decree in a case, an apparent want of jurisdiction on the face
of the record cannot be availed of in a collateral proceeding.
The charges of fraud in this case are too vague to be made the basis of a
bill to set aside a judicial sale.
'The delay of the plaintiffs for four years to assert their claim is, under the
circumstances, fatal to it.

THIS was a bill in equity to set aside a decree rendered in a
former case of TWatson v. -Evers et al., for want of jurisdiction,
-or that the sale of certain land by a special commissioner,
under such decree, be set aside as to all the lands still in the
possession of the defendants.
Plaintiffs, who were aliens, British subjects and residents of
London, set forth that in 1881 or 1882 they, together with
Watson and one Baldwin, citizens of Illinois, were associated
together in the purchase of a large quantity of land in Mis,-sIsslppl, known as the Delta, amounting to 500,000 or 600,000
acres together with certain pine lands amounting to about
150,000 acres. That certain differences having arisen as to
their respective interests, Watson filed a bill in the chancery
court of Le Flore County (a mistake for De Soto County) against
Evers, William Marshall, George F Philips, M. S. Baldwin
et al., which was removed into the Circuit Court of the United
.States, wherein a decree was rendered on October 3, 1885, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

favor of Watson for the sum of $145,000, which was charged

as a lien upon said lands, and, in the event of the failure of the
defendants to pay such sum within six months from the date
of the decree, the lands were to be sold by one MTcKee, as
special commissioner, for the satisfaction of the decree. The
land was accordingly sold, and most of it bought in by Watson,
such sale being afterwards confirmed by the court. "That
said decree was a consent decree, agreed to in a spirit of compromise, and accompanied with and based upon certain agreements to be hereinafter explained."
The bill further alleged that the Circuit Court of the United
States was without jurisdiction to entertain such suit, or
render such decree, by reason of the fact that Watson, the
plaintiff in such bill, was a citizen of Illinois, and Baldwin,
one of the defendants, and a material defendant, was likewise
a citizen of Illinois.
It was further charged that before the sale of the land was
had, Watson and his agents and representatives conspired
with one Burroughs to prevent them (the plaintiffs) from
being present at said sale, and to deter them from bidding for
the lands, the result of which fraudulent collusion was that
Watson bought the lands at a mere trifle per acre, except
about 162,000 acres, which it was fraudulently agreed that
Burroughs and his friends should buy at their own figures.
That but for such fraudulent collusion the Delta lands would
have sold for more than enough to satisfy the decree, and
would have left, at least, the pine lands to plaintiffs in this
bill and the other defendants in said suit, after fully paying
their debt. Instead of this, that they succeeded in securing all
the land, and still claimed a large balance against the defendants in that suit as due by the decree, more, in fact, than
Watson originally advanced for the purchase of the land.
That the plaintiffs were not aware of and had no knowledge
of the fraud practised upon them by Watson until recently,
and long after the sale had been ratified and confirmed, and
that this was the first opportunity to bring the matter before
the court, and they ask a restitution of their rights and an
equitable redress for the fraud.

EVERS v. WATSON.
Statement of the Case.

That the decree was a compromise decree, accompanied by
stipulations, one of which was that the defendants were to
have six months in which to pay the decree, and that, when
they acquiesced and consented to such decree, it was their
intention and expectation, and it was so understood by all
parties, to organize a land company in London, and to sell
the lands referred to in the decree for money enough to pay
off said indebtedness, and the balance in stock and debentures
and working capital, within the six months allowed to them
by the decree. That to accomplish thisp and carry out the
understanding, a company was organized, at great expense
to plaintiffs, and a satisfactory sale of the lands arranged to
be made to such company, which would have been perfected,
and Watson's debt paid, but for the interference of Watson
and his agents, who, by circulating false reports affecting the
title to the land, prevented such company from being floated,
and defeated the efforts of the defendants in such suit, in
raising money to comply with their agreement to pay off
such decree. That afterwards, a son of Watson, representing
his father and the Delta and Pine Land Company, visited
London, and, recognizing the fact that plaintiffs still had an
interest in the lands, agreed to organize another English
company, certain shares of stock in which company they
agreed to receive. That plaintiffs, being ignorant of the
fraud that had been practised upon them at the time of the
sale, and relying upon the statements- of Watson's son, at his
request executed quitclaim deeds of their interests m such
lands, Watson stating that he wanted such deeds in trust
solely for the purpose of facilitating the sale of the lands to
such company, and promising that such deeds when executed
should be deposited by him with Walter Webb & Company,
of Queen Victoria Street, London, the solicitors of such company That Watson, instead of depositing the deeds with -the
solicitors, fraudulently and in violation of his promise and
agreement, sent the deeds to Mississippi, and caused them to
be registered in the several counties in which the lands were
located. That this was done without the knowledge or consent of plaintiffs, that the organization of the company was
VOL.

LVXI-34

OCTOBER TERMI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

never perfected, and negotiations for the sale of the lands had
been abandoned. No stock was ever issued, plaintiffs never
received any consideration for the deeds, or their interest in
the lands. Such deeds were obtained by fraud and false pretences and promises made by Watson, were without consideration, and are void. That plaintiffs are informed that Watson
and the persons associated with him in the Delta and Pine
Land Company have sold a large quantity of the lands at a
good price, as well as a large amount of timber from the
lands remaining ino their possession, and have realized from
such sales, more than enough to pay the decree and the
interest thereon.
The prayer of the bill was that the court set aside the
decree rendered in the case of Watson v Evers for lack of
jurisdiction, or, if mistaken as to this, that the sale by the
commissioner be set aside as to all the lands still in possession of defendants, that the quitclaim deeds be held to be
inoperative and void, and defendants be required to render an
account of the lands and timber sold by them, and the amount
of taxes paid on the land since such sale. That the sums received, after paying the taxes, be credited upon the decree,
and, in case Watson proves to have been overpaid, that a
decree be awarded in favor of plaintiffs for the excess, and
that the land now in possession of defendants be decreed to
be the property of the plaintiffs, as their interest may appear.
A demurrer was filed to this bill by Watson and the Delta
and Pine Land Company, which was sustained by the court,
and the bill dismissed.
From this decree plaintiffs appealed to this court.
Mr James L. .McCaskillfor appellants.
Ar FrankJohnston and Mr .1 ilubley As/don for appellees.
case, delivered the

MR. JUsTicu BRowN, after stating the

opinion of the court.
To maintain this bill, plaintiffs take the position either that
the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Mississippi, to

]DVERS v. WATSON.
Opmon of the Court.

which the case was removed, was wholly wanting in jurisdiction to render the decree complained of in the case of Watson
v Evers et al., or that the sale made in pursuance of such decree was not only voidable for fraud, but absolutely void and
subject to collateral attack in this proceeding.
1. The allegations of the bill with regard to the want of
jurisdiction of the Federal court are very meagre, and are
simply that Watson filed a bill in the state court against
Evers, Marshall, Philips, and Baldwin, which suit was removed to the Federal court and a decree rendered therein.
That such court was wholly without jurisdiction since Watson, as shown in the bill, was a citizen of Illinois, and Baldwin, one of the defendants, was also a citizen of the same
State. It is not shown when, or at whose instance, or upon
what grounds the removal was effected, nor is there a copy of
the petition or the substance of it, either incorporated m the
bill or annexed thereto as an exhibit. We are left wholly in
the dark as to these important particulars, and, under these
circumstances, everything must be presumed against the
pleader. We are bound only to inquire whether a suit to
which two citizens of the same State were originally plaintiff
and defendant could possibly have been removed to the Federal court. The presumption is that the court did have jurisdiction, and that its decree is valid, and, assuming for the
present that the court may attack it collaterally, the burden
is clearly upon the plaintiffs in this case to show that the
decree was void.
We are not even informed by the amended bill of the year
in which the bill was filed in the state court or the removal
had, but, as it is averred that the parties to such suit were
associated together in 1881 or 1882, and the decree was rendered in 1885, we are left to infer that the removal must have
taken place under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat.
470, which, at that time, determined the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts. By, section 2 of that act, "any suit of a civil
nature, at law or in equity, now pending, or hereafter brought,
in any state court where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of five hundred dollars,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

m which there shall be
a controversy between
citizens of a State and foreign States, citizens or subjects,
either party may remove said suit into the Circuit Court of
the United States for the proper district, and when in any suit
mentioned in this section there shall be a controversy which
is wholly between citizens of different States, and which can
be fully determined as between them, then either one or more
of the plaintiffs or defendants actually interested in such controversy may remove said suit into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the proper district."
The position of Baldwin as defendant in the case was not
conclusive as to his actual interest in the litigation. For aught
that appears, his interests may have been identical with those
of Watson, and adverse only to his alien codefendants. In
such case, it would have been perfectly competent for the
court to ascertain the real matter in controversy, and to have
rearranged the parties to the suit upon the opposite sides of
such controversy, and thus sustain the jurisdiction of the court.
The power of the court under the act of 1875, thus to rearrange the parties, and to place them on different sides of the
matter in dispute according to the actual facts, has been recognized by this court in several cases. The Removal Cases, 100
U. S. 457,

Pacjc Railroad v

Yetchum, 101 U S. 289,

Barter v Kernochan, 103 U. S. 562. If such were the case
here, the suit would then stand as one, wherein two citizens
of the same State were plaintiffs, and aliens were defendants, which would be removable, irrespective of the question,
whether, under the second clause of the section, a separate
controversy between citizens and aliens could be removed. It
would appear from the opinion of the District Judge that this
was the view taken by him. Even if he had been mistaken
as to the actual community of interest between Watson and
Baldwin, as matter of fact his decision in respect thereto would
not be reviewable collaterally Grzgnon's Lessee v Astor, 2
How 319, .Afickaels v Post, 21 Wall. 398, Chapman v.
Brewer, 114 U S. 158, 169, NMoble v Unon Rv er Logging

Railroad,147 U S. 165. Even upon the theory of the plaintiffs, to authorize the court to hold the decree in that case void

EVERS v. WATSON.
Opinion of the Court.

in a collateral proceeding, it was necessary to show beyond
any controversy that, upon the record, the court could not
have had jurisdiction. Tins the pleader has failed to do.
But we.do not wish to be understood as holding that, even
if jurisdiction had not been apparent upon the record, advantage could be taken of it after a final decree, and in a collateral proceeding. Thus in Skillern's Executors v -May's
Executors, 6 Cranch, 267, a case which bad been reversed by
this court and sent back to the Circuit Court, was discovered
to be one not within the jurisdiction of that court. But as it
appeared that the merits had been finally decided in this court
and its mandate required only the execution of the decree, it
was held that the Circuit Court was bound to carry the decrge
into execution, although the jurisdiction of that court was not
alleged in the pleadings. So in .iECormscT v. Sullivant, 10
Wheat. 192, a prior judgment between privies in estate was
pleaded in bar of the remedy sought to be enforced in the suit
then under consideration, and objection was made that the
proceedings did not show that the parties to it were citizens of
different States, and, consequently, that the court was without
jurisdiction and the decree void. It was held, however, that
the courts of the United States, though of limited, were not of
inferior jurisdiction, and that, if jurisdiction were not alleged
in the pleadings, their judgments and decrees were erroneous,
and might be reversed for that cause, but that they were not
absolute nullities, and that the decree in the former case,
while it remained unreversed, was a valid bar to the suit under
consideration. To the same effect are Ex _parte Watk7ns, 3
Pet. 193, Kennedy v Georgza State Bank, 8 How 586, -Des
.Momnes .Navzgation Co. v Iowa Homestead Co., 123 U S. 552,
and the recent case of Dowell v Ap.plegate, 152 U S. 327.
These authorities are especially pertinent to this case, in view
of the fact that, after the removal of the case to the Federal
court, the parties thereto, including the plaintiffs herein, acquiesced in its jurisdiction, and entered into a consent decree,
which was designed to settle the entire controversy
2. It is also evident that the charges of fraud are altogether
too vague to be made the basis of a bill to set aside the sale.

OCTOBER TERI,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

The Delta and Pine Land Company is made a defendant to
the bill, but for what reason does not clearly appear. It is
only averred that Watson's son, representing his father and
the Delta and Pine Land Company, visited London and agreed
to organize another English company, and that plaintiffs
should have certain shares of stock in that company, and that
said Watson and the other persons associated with him in the
Delta and Pine Land Company have sold a large quantity of
such lands at a good price, and that they have also sold a good
deal of timber off the lands remaining in their possession, and
have realized more than enough to pay the sum due upon the
decree. But there is no averment to whom the quitclaim
deeds m London were executed, or what the interest of the
Delta and Pine Land Company was in the lands, or how it became possessed of such interest, though, from the fact that
plaintiffs call upon the company to account for the money received from the sale of such lands, it would appear that in
some way it became the purchaser of a portion of such lands.
There is no averment, however, of such purchase, or, if it
were made, that the company purchased with the knowledge
of the fraud alleged.
There is a general allegation that Watson and his agents
conspired fraudulently with one Burroughs and others to
prevent plaintiffs from being present at the sale, and to deter
them from bidding, but it is not averred by what representations or other fraudulent means, contemplated bidders were
prevented from attending an official sale, which the law
required to be advertised for a certain number of weeks, and
it is highly improbable that if plaintiffs had designed to buy
in this land they would have omitted to attend the sale and
permit Watson to buy them at a mere trifle per acre. A
fraudulent agreement is also averred that Burroughs and his
friends should buy about 162,000 acres, but the particulars of
the alleged arrangement are entirely wanting. There is also
an averment of fraudulent collusion of Watson and his representatives preventing all competition, and that, had it not
been for such collusion, the Delta lands alone would have
sold for more than enough to pay off the decree, and would

EVERS v. WATSON.
Opinion of the Court.

have left the pine lands to the plaintiffs and the other defendants in such suit after fully paying their debt. There is no
averment, however, of the means used to prevent competition,
and the whole allegation is vague and unsatisfactory There
is also an averment that the complainants were not aware of
and had no knowledge of the fraud practised upon them by
Watson until recently, and long after such sale had been ratified and confirmed. But it appears that such sale occurred in
1886, was a matter of public record, and yet was allowed to
rest until 1890 without action or challenge, when this bill was
filed.
It further appears that one of the stipulations, under which
the consent decree was entered, was that defendants were to
have six months in which to pay and satisfy the decree, and
that it was their intention to organize a land company in the
city of London, and to sell the lands referred to, and pay off
the indebtedness, but that this scheme was also thwarted by
the interference of Watson and his agents, who, by circulating false reports affecting the title of the lands, prevented the
company from being floated. But the bill does not allege
what these false reports were, or to whom they were made,
or any facts from which the court can determine whether
they were likely to affect the organization of the company or
not. It does not appear when Watson's son visited London,
or what means were used to induce plaintiffs to execute quitclaim deeds of their interests, or when such deeds were executed, or to whom they were executed. There is no reason
given why plaintiffs did not, in view of all these alleged
frauds, apply to the court which ordered the sale for an order
vacating the same. If the transactions took place as stated
by them, they could hardly have been ignorant of the fraud
practised upon them. As the sale and the prices paid were
matters of record, plaintiffs were bound to inform themselves
of the facts, and to take steps to protect their interests.
Foster v Mansfield, Coldwater &o. Railroad,146 U. S. 88.
It does not even appear whether the transaction in London
occurred before or after the sale, though the inference is that
it was some time after, when the plaintiffs must have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

aware of the suspicious circumstances attending the sale, or at
least should have made inquiries. In short, the bill is much
more remarkable for what it omits, than for what it alleges.
It does appear, however, that Watson had a claim against
these parties, which was settled by the consent decree at
$145,000, that 162,000 acres of these lands were purchased
by Burroughs, who is not made a party to this suit, although
he is alleged to have fraudulently conspired with Watson, and
a large portion of these lands have been sold, presumptively,
to bonajide purchasers, and that, in the lapse of time that has
intervened, it would be impossible to restore the parties to
their original positions.
It is apparent that the whole case depends upon the validity
of the sale made by the special commissioner. If this sale
were valid, plaintiffs lost all their interests m the lands, they
had nothing left to convey by their subsequent quitclaim
deeds, and the cancellation of such deeds would not revest
them with any interest. If the sale were voidable, either by
reason of a fraudulent combination to deter the plaintiffs from
-being present, or to prevent competition, or by reason of the
false reports circulated in London, to prevent the plaintiffs
from carrying out their agreement to satisfy the decree within
six months, it was the duty of the plaintiffs, instead of executing quitclaim deeds, and thus putting themselves again into
the hands of parties whom they allege to have twice played
them false, to promptly disaffirm their acts, and seek to repossess themselves of the property Their delay of four years,
during which much of the property has been sold, presumptively to parties who have purchased without notice, is fatal
to their claim.
The decree of the court below sustaining the demurrer and
dismissing the bill was correct, and it is, therefore,
Affirmed.

