OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

EMERT v. MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 120. Argued and submitted December 14, 1894. -Decided

March 4, 1895.

A statute of a State, by which peddlers of goods, going from place to place
within the State to sell them, are required, under a penalty, to take out
and pay for licenses, and which makes no discrimination between
residents or products of the State and those of other States, is not, as
to peddlers of goods previously sent to them by manufacturers in other
States, repugnant to the grant by the Constitution to Congress of the
power to regulate commerce among the several States.
Xachine Co. v. Gage, 100 U. S. 676, approved and followed.

THIS was an information, filed July 27, 1889, before a
justice of the peace in the county of Montgomery and State
of Missouri, for a misdemeanor, by peddling goods without
a license, in violation of a statute of the State, contained in
chapter 137, entitled "Peddlers and their licenses," of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1879, the material provisions
of which are copied in the margin,' and which is renacted
as chapter 125 of the Revised Statutes of 1889.
I SEC. 6471. Whoever shall deal in the selling of patents, patent rights,
patent or other medicines, lightning rods, goods, wares or merchandise,
except books, charts, maps and stationery, by going from place to place to
sell the same, is declared to b a peddler.
SEc. 6472. No person shall deal as a peddler without a license; and no
two or more persons shall deal under the same license, either as partners,
agents or otherwise; and no peddler shall sell wines or spirituous liquors.
SEC. 6473. Every license shall state the manner in which the dealing is
to be carried on, whether on foot, or with one or more beasts of burden, the
kind of cart or carriage, or, if on the water, the kind of boat or vessel to be
employed.
SEC. 6476. Any person may obtain a peddler's license by application To
the collector of the county in which he intends to carry on his trade, by
paying the amount levied on such license.
SEC. 6477. There shall be levied and paid, on all peddlers' licenses, a
state tax of the following rates: First, if the peddler travel and carry his
goods on foot, three dollars for every period of six months; second, if one
or more horses or other beasts of burden, ten dollars for every period of
six months; third, if a cart or other land carriage, twenty dollars for every

EMERT v. MISSQURI.
Statement of the Case.

'The information alleged that the defendant on June 26,
1889, in that county, "did then and there unlawfully deal in
the selling of goods, wares and merchandise, not being books,
-charts, maps or stationery, by going from place to place, in
-a cart or spring wagon with one horse, to sell the same, and
-did then and there, while going from place to place to sell
.said goods, wares and merchandise aforesaid, unlawfully sell
-one sewing machine to David Portucheck, without then and
there having a license as a peddler, or any other legal
.authority to sell the same, against the peace and dignity of
the State."
The defendant pleaded not guilty, and was adjudged to be
guilty, and sentenced to pay a fine of fifty dollars, and costs.
He appealed to the circuit court of the county, and in that
court the parties, for the purpose of dispensing with evidence,
agreed in writing, signed by their attorneys, that the case might
be decided by the court on the following agreed statement
"1st. That for more than five years last past the Singer
Manufacturing Company has been, and still is, a corporation
duly orgamzed under the laws of the State of New Jersey,
and a citizen of that State.
"12d. That on and prior to June 26, 1889, E. S. Emert,
-defendant, was in the employ of said Singer Manufacturing
Company on a salary for his services, and at said time, in
period of six months; fourth, if in a boat or other river vessel, at the rate
of one dollar per day for any period not less than five days; and such license
may be renewed, at the expiration of the first license, for any period not
greater than six months, on payment of fifty cents a. day, the number of
days to be specified in such license. Any county court may, by an order of
record, require all peddlers doing business in their county to pay a license
tax, not greater than that levied for state purposes.
SEc. 6478. Every person who shall be found dealing as a peddler, contrary to law or the terms of his license, shall forfeit, if a foot peddler, the
sum of ten dollars; on one or more beasts of burden, twenty-five dollars;
in a cart or other land carriage, fifty dollars; in a boat or other vessel,
one hundred dollars.
SEc. 6479. Every peddler shall, upon the demand of any sheriff, collector,
constable, or citizen householder of the county, produce his license, and
allow the same to be read by the person making the demand; and, in default
thereof, shall forfeit the sum of ten dollars.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

pursuance of said employment, was engaged in going from
place to place in said Montgomery county, Missouri, with
a horse and wagon, soliciting orders for the sale of Singer
sewing machines, having with him in said wagon a certain
New Singer Sewing Machine, which, on said day, he offered
for sale to various persons at different places in said county,
and that on said day the defendant did find a purchaser for
said machine, and did sell and deliver the same to David
Portucheck in said county
"3d. That said Singer machine in question was manufactured by said Singer Manufacturing Company at its works in
the State of New Jersey, and that said sewing machine belonged to and was the property of said company, and that it
was forwarded to this State by said company, and by it delivered to the defendant as its agent for sale on its account, and
said machine was sold on account of the said manufacturing
company, that said machine was of the value of fifty dollars,
that the defendant had no peddler's license at said time."
The court adjudged that the defendant was guilty as
charged in the information, and that he pay a fine of fifty
dollars, and costs. The defendant moved for a new trial,
because the facts m the agreed statement constituted no
offence, and because the statute on which he had been
charged and convicted, being chapter 137 of the Revised
Statutes of 1879, was in contravention of section 8 of article 1
of the Constitution of the United States, and void in so far as
it affected him. The motion for a new trial, as well as a
motion in arrest of judgment, was overruled, and the defendant, upon the ground that a constitutional question was involved, and assigning as errors the same causes as in his
motion for a new trial, appealed to the Supreme Court of the
State, which affirmed the judgment. 103 Missouri, 241.
The defendant sued out this writ of error, which was
allowed by the presiding judge of that court, upon the ground
that there "was drawn in question the validity of a statute
of or an authority exercised under said State, on the ground
of their being repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, and the decision was in favor of such their validity"

EMERT v. MISSOURI.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error

21P Lawrence .Maxwell, Jr., and XMr Seneca N
for plaintiff in error.

Taylor

The plaintiff m error submits that the transaction in which
he was engaged and for which he was punished was interstate
commerce. If so, it was not competent for the State of
Missouri to tax him for the privilege of making the sale.
The Singer Manufacturing Company is not contesting the
right of the State of Missouri to tax its property within that
State as property in accordance with the rules governing the
taxation of other property, and as the coal was taxed in
Brown v Houston, 114 U S. 622. It simply insists that
under the Federal Constitution it has the right, in the absence
of congressional prohibition, not only to carry the goods
which it manufactures m New Jersey into the State of Mlissouri, but to sell them in that State, and that the State of
Missouri has no power to prevent it from making such sales
or to tax it for theprivilege.
1. The tax complained of is not a tax upon the property of
the Singer Company in Missouri. The company is taxed upon
its property m that State under the general revenue laws of
the State. This is an additional tax for the privilege of
selling its machines in a certain way
It is sometimes said that a license tax is in effect a tax upon
property, but it is submitted that the statement is not accurate.
A tax upon property, as property, is assessed with reference to
the amount and value of the property, but the statute complamed of takes no account of the amount or value of property The tax is in terms and effect a license tax for the
privilege of selling or offering to sell goods during a certain
time in a certain way, to wit, "by going from place to place
and selling the same," without reference to the amount or
value of the goods carried or sold.
With Tespect to the particular machine m question the
agreed statement of facts shows nothing more than that it
was manufactured by the Singer Company at its works in
New Jersey, and was forwarded as a matter of interstate commerce to Emert, as its agent in Missouri, to be sold by him on,

OCTOBER TERIV, 1894.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

its account, and that he made the sale on its account. It does
not appear that Emert ever carried with him or ever sold or
delivered any machines save this one, or that he ever carried
this machine or had it in his possession at any time prior to
the day of sale, and the assumption to the contrary in the
,opinion of the Supreme Court of Mffissouri is not warranted by
the facts, but if this court shall assume without evidence,
-especially in a criminal case, that the Singer Company sends
its machines from its factory in New Jersey to offices or depots
in the State of -Missouri, and that they are kept at such agencies
for sale, the general revenue laws of the State provide for the
taxation of such stocks of machines as property
Rev Stats. Missouri, 1889, c. 111, § 6894, provide that
" Every person or copartnership of persons, who shall deal in
the selling of goods, wares, and merchandise, including clocks,
at any store, stand, or place occupied for that purpose, is
declared to be a merchant."
,Section 6896 provides that "Merchants shall pay an ad valorem tax equal to that which is levied upon real estate, on the
highest amount of all goods, wares, and merchandise which
they may have in their possession or under their control,
whether owned by them or consigned to them for sale, at
any time between the first Monday of March and the first
Monday in June in each year Prowded, That no commission
merchant shall be required to pay any tax on any unmanufactured article, the growth or produce of this or any other
State, which may have been consigned for sale, and in which
he has no ownership or interest other than his commission."
Subsequent sections provide for returns and assessments in
accordance with the foregoing rule of taxation, so that the
Singer Company with respect to stocks of machines held by
it at any of its offices m the State is compelled to pay an ad
'valorem tax, equal to that which is levied on real estate, on
the highest amounts of goods, wares, and merchandise which
it has in its possession or under its control, at any tune
between the first Monday in March and the first Monday in
June in each year. This writ of error does not involve the
right to levy such taxes.

EMERT v. MISSOURI.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

II. The right secured by the Federal Constitution to the
citizens of other States to engage in commerce with the citizens of Missouri includes not only the right to import their
goods into Missouri, but to sell them there after importationThe right to import is of no benefit, shorn of the right to sell.
Missouri can no more prevent or tax the one than the other.
In Bq-own v. 3faryland, 12 Wheat. 419, Chief Justice Marshall said (p. 439) "There is no difference in effect between
a power to prohibit the sale of an article and a power to prohibit its introduction into the country The one would be a
necessary consequence of the other. No goods would be imported if none could be sold."
Again at page 446 he said "If this power [of Congress to.
regulate interstate commerce] reaches the interior of a State,
and may be there exercised, it must be capable of authorizingthe sale of those articles which it introduces. Commerce is.
intercourse, one of its most ordinary ingredients is traffic. It
is inconceivable that the power to authorize this traffic, when
given in the most comprehensive terms, with the intent that.
its efficacy should be complete, should cease at the point when
its continuance is indispensable to its value. To what purposeshould the power to allow importation be given, unaccompanied with the power to authorize a sale of the thing imported 2 Sale is the object of importation, and is an essential
ingredient of that intercourse of which importation constitutes.
a part. It is as essential an ingredient, as indispensable to the
existence of the entire thing, then, as importation itself. It.
must be considered as a component part of the power to regulate commerce. Congress has a right not only to authorizeimportation, but to authorize the importer to sell.
"If this be admitted, and we think it cannot be denied,
what can be the meaning of an act of Congress which author-.
izes importation and offers the privilege for sale at a fixed
price to every person who chooses to become a purchaser 2
How is it to be construed if an intent to deal honestly and
fairly, an intent as wise as it is moral, is to enter into the construction 2 What can be the use of the contract, what does the.
importer purchase, if he does not purchase the privilege to sell? "

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Again, on page 448 he said "We think, then, that if the
power to authorize a sale exists in Congress, the concluson that
the 'rightto sell is connected with the law permitting 2mportation as an winseparable ineident is mevitable." And again, on
page 449 "It may be proper to add that we suppose the principles laid down in this case to apply equally to importations
from a sister State."
The question whether the right to import an article of interstate commerce from one State to another includes by necessary implication the right to sell it was much considered in
Bowman v Chicago and Northwestern Railway, 125 U. S.
465, but was not decided. The argument there was "that the
right of a State to restrict or prohibit sales of intoxicating liquor within its limits, conceded to exist as a part of its police
power, implies the right to prohibit its importation, because
the latter is necessary to the effectual exercise of the former."
"The argument," said Mr. Justice Matthews, "is that a prohibition of the sale cannot be made effective except by preventing the introduction of the subject of the sale, that if its
entrance into the State is permitted, the traffic in it cannot be
suppressed, but the right to prohibit sales, so far as conceded
to the States, arises only after the act of transportatton has
terminated, because the sales which the State may forbid are
of things within its jurisdiction."
The views held by Mr. Justice Matthews upon the main
question are easily discovered from the following passage from
his opinion (page 499) "It is easier to think that the right of
importation from abroad and of transportation from one State
to another includes, by necessary implication, the right of the
importer to sell in unbroken packages at the place where the
transit terminates, for the very purpose and motive of that
branch of commerce which consists in transportation is that
other and consequent act of commerce which consists in the
sale and exchange of the commodities transported. Such,
indeed, was the point decided in the case of Brown v .Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, as to foreign commerce, with the express
statement, in the opinion of Chief Justice Marshall, that the
conclusion would be the same in a case of commerce among

EMERT v.

IISSOURI.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the States. But it is not necessary now to express any opinion upon the point, because that question does not arise in the
present case."
In his separate concurring opinion Mr. Justice Field, after
examining the question, says (page 505) "Assuming, therefore, as correct doctrine that the right of transportation
carries the right to sell the article inported, the decision in
the Kansas case may perhaps be reconciled with the one in
this case by distinguishing," etc.
The precise question came up later in Lessy v Hardin, 135
U. S. 100. The conclusion of the court is shown by the following passage from the opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Fuller
(page 124) "The plaintiffs in error are citizens of Illinois,
are not pharmacists and have no permit, but import into
Iowa beer, which they sell in original packages, as described.
Under our decision in Bowman v CA'cago &c. Railway,
-supra,they had the right to import this beer into that State,
and in the view which we have expressed they had the right
to sell it, by which act alone it would become mingled in the
common mass of property within the State. Up.to that point
of time we hold that in the absence of Congressional permission to do so the State had no power to interfere by seizure
or any other action in prohibition of importation and sale by
the foreign or non-resident importer."
The argument by which this conclusion was reached and
the effect of the decision in Brown v .Marylandare shown in
a previous passage from the opinion of the Chief Justice on
page 110,
III. If the transaction in which Emert was engaged was
interstate commerce, the imposition of a license tax is a "regulation" within the meaning of the Constitution.
In Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U S. 289, 304, Mr. Justice
Brewer, speaking of Welton v Missoum, 91 U. S. 275, said.
"It is true that the case turned largely upon the fact of discrimmation between products of other States and those of
Missouri, but nevertheless the decision is an adjudication that
the imposition of a license tax on the peddling of goods is a
regulation of commerce." And again, page 298 "It is true,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

also, that the tax inposed is for selling in a particular manner, but a regulation as to the manner of sale, whether by
sample or not, whether by exhibiting samples at a store or at
a dwelling-house, is surely a regulation of commerce."
IV It is immaterial that the statute "regulates" those
who are engaged in internal commerce equally with those
engaged in interstate commerce. Robbins v Shelby County
Taxing Diistrt,120 U S. 489, Asher v Texas, 128 U S.
129, Brennan v Titusville, 153 U S. 289.
A State cannot prevent a person from engaging in interstate commerce or tax him for the privilege, and it does not
acquire the right to do so by also regulating persons engaged
in internal commerce of the same sort. The prohibition is
not against regulating interstate commerce by a discriminating regulation, but against regulating it at all.
The case of Xaflhne Co. v Gage, 100 U S. 676, overlooks
this fundamental distinction. It is the case upon which the
decision of the Supreme Court of Missouri is based, and is a
constant source of confusion. It is submitted that it should
now be overruled in terms as it has been in effect by numerous subsequent decisions of this court.
In Robbins v Shelby Taxing Ditstrict, 120 U S.489, 497, Mr.
Justice Bradley said "It is strongly urged, as if it were a
material point in the case, that no discrimination is made between domestic and foreign drummers - those of Tennessee
and those of other States, that all are taxed alike. But that
does not meet the difficulty Interstate commerce cannot be
taxed at all, even though the same amount of tax should be
laid on domestic commerce or that which is carried on solely
within the State. This was decided in the case of The State
Freght Tax, 15 Wall. 232."
Speaking of the decision in Robb-ns v Shelby Taxing .Distrwet, Mr. Justice Brewer, in Brennan v Titusville, 153 U S.
289, 304, said " The statute made no discrimination between those who represented business houses out of the State
and those representing like houses within the State. There
was, therefore, no element of discrimination in the case, but,
nevertheless, the conviction was set aside by this court on the-

EMERT v. MISSOURI.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ground that, whatever the State might see fit to enact with
reference to a license'tax upon those who acted as drummers
for houses within the State, it could not impose upon those
who acted as drummers for business houses outside of the
State (and who were therefore engaged in interstate commerce) any burden by way of a license tax."
V It is immaterial that the Singer Company is a corporation. Gloucester Fer-y Co. v Pennsylvansa, 114 U. S. 196,
Crutcher v Jentuky, 141 U. S. 47.
The doctrine is now firmly settled that interstate commerce
by a corporation is entitled to the same protection as when
carried on by individuals.
VI. The question, after all, is simply whether the transaction in which Emert was engaged and for which he was punished was interstate commerce. If so, it was not within the
regulating power of the State of Missouri. What Emert did
was to negotiate the sale of merchandise. That was clearly
an act of commerce, and the only question is whether it was
domestic commerce or interstate commerce. It is admitted
(Brennan v Titusville) that if Emert had negotiated the sale
prior to the arrival of the machine in Missouri the transaction
would have been an act of interstate commerce. Why 2 Because it was a step taken for the purpose of effecting a sale and
delivery in one State of goods from another State. But what
difference does it make whether the sale precedes the- arrival
of the goods or is made contemporaneously with their arrival
or after their arrival, provided the goods remain the property
of the shipper until sold, and were shipped by him for the sole
purpose of being sold in the State to which they were sent.
The protection of the Constitution is not confined to interstate commerce in which sale precedes shipment. It extends
to all interstate commerce, whether the vendor sells m advance
of shipping or whether he accompanies the goods personally
or by agent into the foreign State to sell them there as best
he can and as soon as he can. It will be noticed that it is
not the fact of sale that makes one liable under the Missouri
statute. It is for the privilege of tiytng to sell "by going
from place to place" that the tax is imposed.
VOL. cL-vi-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

We submit that where a thing like a machine is sent from
one State to another for the sole purpose of being there sold,
then the State to which it is sent cannot "regulate" the manner in which it shall be sold by forbidding the owner to go
"from place to place to sell the same." If the States can
establish that regulation, there is no limit to the restrictions
which they may impose upon interstate commerce. The only
safe doctrine is that announced in Brown v Maryland and
reaffirmed in Letsy v Hardin- that "the right to sell any
article imported is an inseparable incident of the right to
import it." It was contended by the dissenting justices in the
latter case that this right of sale is subject to the exercise of
the police power of the State in the case of deleterious substances, but no such question is involved at bar. Upon the
vital question that the Federal Constitution guarantees the
right to sell as an inseparable incident of the right to import,
there was no disagreement. We respectfully submit that the
judgment should be reversed.
.Mr ]i. F Walker, Attorney General of the State of
-Missouri, for defendant in error, submitted on his brief.
M.. JusTicE GRiY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

From early times, in England and America, there have
been statutes regulating the occupation of itinerant peddlers,
and requiring them to obtain licenses to practise their trade.
In Tomlin's Law Dictionary are these definitions "Hawkers. Those deceitful fellows who went from place to place,
buying and selling brass, pewter, and other goods and merchandise, which ought to be uttered in open market, were of
old so called, and the appellation seems to grow from their
uncertain wandering, like persons that with hawks seek their
game where they can find it. They are mentioned in Stat. 33
"Hawkers, Pedlars, and Petty Ckapmen.
Hen. VIII, c. 4:."
Persons travelling from town to town with goods and mer
chandise. These were under the control of commissioners for

EMERT v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

licensing them' for that purpose, under Stats. 8 & 9 Win. III,
c. 25, 9 & 10 Win. III, c. 25 [9 Win. III, c. 27] , 29 Geo. III,
c. 26."
The act of 50 Geo. III, c. 41, repealed the prior acts, and
imposed a penalty on "any hawker, pedlar, petty chapman,
or any other trading person or persons, going from town to
town, or to other men's houses, and travelling, either on'foot,
or with horse or horses," and exposing to sale, or selling
goods, wares or merchandise by retail. Upon an information
in the Court of Ekchequer to recover penalties under that act,
Baron Graham said "The object of the legislature, in passing
the act upon which this information is founded, was to protect, on the one hand, fair traders, particularly established
shopkeepers, resident permanently in towns or other places,
and paying rent and taxes there for local privileges, from the
mischiefs of being undersold by itinerant persons, to their
injury, and, on the other, to guard the public from the impositions practised by such persons in the course of their dealings,
who, having no known or fixed residence, carry on a trade by
means of vending goods conveyed from place to place by
horse or cart." Attorney General v Tongue, (1823) 12 Price,
51, 60.
In Massachusetts, both before and after the adoption of the
Constitution of the United States, successive statutes imposed
penalties on hawkers, peddlers and petty chapmen. 7 Dane
Ab. 72, Stats. 1713-14, c. 7, (1 Prov Laws, 720;) 1716-17,
c. 10, 1721-22, c. 6, 1726-27, c. 4, (2 Prov Laws, 47, 232,
385,) 1785, c. 2, 1799, c. 20, 1820, c. 45, Rev Stats. 1836,
c. 35, §§ 7, 8. The statute of 1846, c. 244, repealing the earlier
statutes, imposed a penalty on "every hawker, peddler or
petty chapman, or other person, going from town to town,
or from place to place, or from dwelling-house to dwellinghouse in the same town, either on foot, or with one or more
horses, or otherwise carrying for sale, or exposing to sale, any
goods, wares or merchandise," (with certain exceptions,) without first obtaining a license, as therein provided.
In a case under that statute, Chief Justice Shaw said "The
leading primary idea of a hawker and peddler is that of an

OCTOBER TERiM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

itinerant or travelling trader, who carries goods about, in order
to sell them, and who actually sells them to purchasers, in
contradistinction to a trader who has goods for sale and sells
them in a fixed place of business. Superadded to this, (though
perhaps not essential,) by a hawker is generally understood
one who not only carries goods for sale, but seeks for purchasers, either by outcry, which some lexicographers conceive
as intimated by the derivation of the word, or by attracting
notice and attention to them as goods for sale, by an actual
exhibition or exposure of them, by placards or labels, or by a
conventional signal, like the sound of a horn for the sale of
fish. But our statute goes further, and not only proscribes
actual hawkers and peddlers, whose employment is that of
travelling traders, and thus seems to refer to a business or
habitual occupation, but it extends to all persons, doing the
acts proscribed." Commonwealth v Ober, (1853) 12 Cush.
493, 495.
In that case, it was objected that the statute was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, because at variance with the exclusive right of Congress to regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the several States, and with
the Indian tribes. To which Chief Justice Shaw answered
"The law in question interferes with none of these." "We
consider this as wholly an internal commerce, which the
States have a right to regulate, and, in this respect, this law
stands on the same footing with the laws regulating sales of
wine and spirits, sales at auction, and very many others,
which are in force and constantly acted upon." 12 Cush.
497.

In Michigan, a city ordinance, passed under authority of
the legislature, prohibiting peddling without a license from
the mayor, was held constitutional, and Chief Justice Cooley
said. "That the regulation of hawkers and peddlers is important, if not absolutely essential, may be taken as established
by the concurring practice of civilized States. They are a
class of persons who travel from place to place among strangers, and the business may easily be made a pretence or a convenience to those whose real purpose is theft or fraud. The

EMERT v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

requirement of a license gives opportunity for inquiry into
antecedents and character, and the payment of a fee affords
some evidence that the business is not a mere pretence."
People v Russell, (1883) 49 Mich. 617, 619.
In the courts of many other States, statutes imposing a penalty for peddling, without a license, all goods of particular
kinds, and not discriminating against goods brought from other
States, or from foreign countries, have been held not to be
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. Cowles
v Brsttam, (1822) 2 Hawks, 204, Thynne v WFrght, (1834)
1 Dev & Bat. 19, Tracy v State, (1829) 3 Missouri, 3, 2Mor-rill v. State, (1875) 38 Wisconsin, 428, Howe Xfachsne Co.
v Cage, (1876) 9 Baxter, 518, Grafty v. Rushville, (1886) 107
Indiana, 502, State v Richards, (1889) 32 West Virgima, 348,
Commonwealth v Gardner, (1890) 133 Penn. St. 284.
The statute of Missouri, under which the conviction in the
case at bar was had, is contained in a separate chapter of the
Revised Statutes of the State, entitled "Peddlers and their
licenses," and relating to no other subject. By this statute,
"whoever shall deal in the selling of'" any goods, wares or
merchandise, (except books, charts, maps and stationery,) "by
going from place to place to sell the same, is declared to be a
peddler," and is prohibited from dealing as a peddler without a license. Rev. Stat. of 1879, §§ 6471, 6472. The license
is required to state how the dealing is to be carried on, whether
on foot, or with one or more beasts of burden, a cart or wagon,
or a boat or vessel, and may be obtained by any person paying the tax prescribed, according to the manner in which the
business is carried on. §§ 6413, 6476, 6477. Any person dealmg as a peddler, without a license, whether with a pack, a
wagon, or a boat, is to pay a certain penalty, which, in the case
of peddling in a cart or wagon, is fifty dollars. § 6418. And
any peddler, who refuses to exhibit his license, on demand of
a sheriff, collector, constable, or citizen householder of the
county, is to forfeit the sum of ten dollars. § 6419.
The facts were agreed, that the Singer Manufacturing Oompany, for more than five years last past, and on the day in
question, was a corporation of New Jersey, that the defend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894i
Opinion of the Court.

ant, on and prior to that day, was in the employment of that
company, and on that day, in pursuance of that employment,
and having no peddler's license, was engaged in going from
place to place in Montgomery county in the State of Xissouri,
with a horse and wagon, soliciting orders for the sale of the
company's sewing machines, and having with him in the
wagon one of those machines, the property of the company,
and manufactured by it at its works in New Jersey, and
which it had forwarded and delivered to him for sale on its
account, and that he offered this machine for sale to various
persons at different places, and found a purchaser, and sold
and delivered it to him.
The Supreme Court of the State, in its opinion, understood
and assumed the effect of those facts to be as follows "The
defendant was engaged in going from place to place, selling
and trying to sell sewing machines, in Montgomery county in
this State, and had been so engaged for some years. He
carried the machines with him in a wagon, and on making a
sale delivered those sold to the purchaser. He was not only
soliciting orders, but was making sales and delivering the
property sold. These acts bring him clearly within the statutory definition of a peddler, and, having no license from the
State, he became liable to the penalties imposed by the statute,
unless, for any reason, he was exempt from the operations of
103 Missouri, 247. It is argued by one of his counthe law"
sel that this was an unwarranted conclusion from the facts
agreed. But the construction of those facts does not present
a Federal question, except so far as it involves the constitutionality of the statute. Upon any construction, it is clear that
the defendant was engaged in going from place to place
within the State, without a license, soliciting orders for the
sale of sewing machines, having with him in the wagon at
least one of those machines, and offering that machine for
sale to various persons at different places, and that he finally
sold it, and delivered it to the purchaser. The conclusion that
such dealings made him a peddler, within the meaning of the
statute of the State, and of the information on which he was
convicted, presents of itself no constitutional question.

EMERT v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

The facts appear to have been agreed for the purpose of
presenting the question whether the statute was repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States. This was the only
question discussed m the opinion of the Supreme Court of
Missouri. And it is the only one of which this court has
jurisdiction upon this writ of error.
The defendant's occupation was offering for sale and selling
sewing machines, by going from place to place in the State of
Missouri, in a wagon, without a license. There is nothing in
the case to show that he ever offered for sale any machine
that he did not have with him at the time. His dealings were
neither accompanied nor followed by any transfer of goods,
or of any order for their transfer, from one State to another,
and were neither interstate commerce in themselves, nor were
they in any way directly connected with such commerce.
The only business or commerce in which he was engaged was
internal and domestic, and, so far as appears, the only goods
in which he was dealing had become part of the mass of
property within the State. Both the occupation and the
goods, therefore, were subject to the taxing power, and to the
police power, of the State.
The statute in question is not part of a revenue law It
makes no discrimination between residents or products of
Missouri and those of other States, and manifests no intention to interfere, in any way, with interstate commerce. Its
object, in requiring peddlers to take out and pay for licenses,
and to exhibit their licenses, on demand, to any peace officer,
or to any citizen householder of the county, appears to have
been to protect the citizens of the State against the cheats and
frauds, or even thefts, which, as the experience of ages has
shown, are likely to attend itinerant and irresponsible peddling
from place to place and from door to door.
If this question were now brought before this court for the
first time, there could hardly be a doubt of the validity of the
statute. But it is not a new question in this court.
The decision at October term, 1879, in the case reported as
.Machehne Co. v Gage, 100 U S. 676, affirming the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Tennessee in Howe 3fachine Co. v Cage,

OCTOBER TERM,, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

9 Baxter, 518, is directly in point. The facts agreed, upon
which that case was submitted, as shown by the record,
were as follows The Howe Machine Company, a corporation of Connecticut, manufactured sewing machines at Bridgeport in that State, and had an office at Nashville in the State
of Tennessee, and sent an agent into Sumner county, for the
purpose of selling or peddling machines, who travelled through
the country, in a wagon with one horse, for the purpose of
exhibiting and offering for sale the company's machines, that
the machines offered for sale and sold by him were manufactured in Connecticut, and brought into Tennessee for sale,
and that he paid, under protest, a tax required of him under
the statutes of Tennessee for the privilege or license to peddle
or sell the machines of the company in Sumner County By
those statutes, "all articles manufactured of the produce of
the State" were exempt from taxation, and "all peddlers of
sewing machines" were required to pay a tax of fifteen
dollars. The Supreme Court of Tennessee having held that
the latter provision "levied a tax upon all peddlers of sewing
machines, without regard to the place of growth or produce
of material, or of manufacture," this court, speaking by Mr.
Justice Swayne, considered itself "bound to regard this construction as correct, and to give it the same effect as if it were
a part of the statute," and decided that "the statute in
question, as construed by the Supreme Court of the State,
makes no such discrimination. It applies alike to sewing
machines manufactured in the State, and out of it. The
exaction is not an unusual or unreasonable one. The State,
putting all such machines upon the same footing with respect
to the tax complained of, had an unquestionable right to
impose the burden." 100 U S. 677, 679.
It has been strenuously argued that that demsion is inconsistent with earlier and later decisions of this court upon the
subject of the powers of the several States as affected by the
grant by the Constitution to Congress of the power to regulate
commerce. It becomes necessary, therefore, to examine those
decisions with care, beginning with the earlier ones.
In the leading case of .Brown v .Maryland, (1827) 12

EMERT v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

Wheat. 419, in which it was adjudged that a statute of Maryland, requiring, under a penalty, importers or other persons
selling foreign goods by the bale or package, to take out and
pay for a license, was repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States, both as laying an impost or duty on imports
without the consent of Congress, and as inconsistent with the
power of Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations,
Mr. Taney and Mr. Johnson, for the State of Maryland,
argued that the tax was "laid upon the same principle with
the usual taxes on retailers, or innkeepers, or hawkers and
pedlars, or upon any other trade exercised within the State."
12 Wheat. 425.
Chief Justice Marshall, in answering that argument, said
"This

indictment is against the importer for selling a package

of dry goods, in the form in which it was imported, without a
license. This state of things is changed if he sells them, or
,otherwise mixes them with the general property of the State,
by breaking up his packages and travelling with them as an
itinerant pedlar. In the first case, the tax intercepts the
import as an import in its way to become incorporated with
the general mass of property, and denies it the privilege of
becoming so incorporated, until it shall have contributed to
the revenue of the State. It denies to the importer the right
-of using the privilege which he has purchased from the
United States, until he shall also have purchased it from the
State. In the last cases, the tax finds the article already
incorporated with the mass of property by the act of the
importer. He has used the privilege he had purchased, and
has himself mixed them up with the common mass, and the
law may treat them as it finds them. The same observations
apply to plate or other furniture used by the importer. So, if
he sells by auction. Auctioneers are persons licensed by the
State, and if the unporter chooses to employ them he can as
little object to paying for this service as for any other, for
which he may apply to an officer of the State. The right of
sale may very well be annexed to importation, without annexing to it also the privilege of using the officers licensed by the
State to make sales in a peculiar way" 12 Wheat. 143.

OCTOBER TERI,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

A like distinction was recognized m the United StatesInternal Revenue Act of 1862, in which "peddlers" were
distinguished from "commercial brokers" and were subjected
to a different license tax. Among "commercial brokers"
was classed "any person or firm, except one holding a license
as wholesale dealer or banker, whose business it is, as the
agent of others, to purchase or sell goods, or seek orders therefor, in original or unbroken packages or produce." "Peddlers"
were thus defined "Any person, except persons peddling newspapers, Bibles or religious tracts, who sells or offers to sell, at
retail, goods, wares or other commodities, travelling from
place to place, in the street, or through different parts of thecountry, shall be regarded as a peddler, under this act." Act
of July 1, 1862, c. 119, § 64, cls. 14, 27, 12 Stat. 457, 458.
In Woodruff v Parhamr, (1868) 8 Wall. 123, it was adjudged
by this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, that a uniform
tax imposed by ordinance of the city of Mobile, under authority from the legislature of Alabama, on all sales by auction in
the city, was constitutional, because it was "a simple tax on
sales of merchandise, imposed alike upon all sales made in
Mobile, whether the sales be made by a citizen of Alabama or
of another State, and whether the goods sold are the produce
of that State or some other. There is no attempt to discriminate injuriously against the products of other States, or the
rights of their citizens, and the case is not, therefore, an attempt to fetter commerce among the States, or to deprive the
citizens of other States of any privilege or immunity possessed
by citizens of Alabama. But a law having such operation
would, in our opinion, be an infringement of the provisions of
the Constitution which relate to those subjects, and therefore
void." 8 Wall. 140.
In Hlinson v lott, 8 Wall. 148, decided at the same time, it
was adjudged by this court, speaking by the same eminent
justice, that a statute of that State, imposing a tax of fifty
cents per gallon, to be paid by the distiller, on all intoxicating
liquors manufactured within the State, and a like tax, to be
paid by the importer, on all intoxicating liquors introduced
into the State for sale, was constitutional, on the ground "that.

EMERT v. MISSOURI.
Opmon of the Court.

no greater tax is laid on liquors brought into the State than on
those manufactured within it," and "that, whereas collecting
the tax of the distiller was supposed to be the most expedient
mode of securing its payment, as to liquors manufactured
within the State, the tax on those who sold liquors brought
in from other States was only the complementary provision,
necessary to make the tax equal on all liquors sold in the
State. As the effect of the act is such as we have described,
and it institutes no legislation which discriminates against the
products of sister States, but merely subjects them to the same
rate of taxation which similar articles pay that are manufactured within the State, we do not see in it an attempt to regulate commerce, but an appropriate and legitimate exercise of
the taxing power of the States." 8 Wall. 153.
In Ward v 2lfaryland, (1870) 12 Wall. 418, a statute of
Maryland, requiring all traders residing within the State to
take out licenses at certain rates, and subjecting to indictment
and penalty persons not residents of the State, who, without taking out a license at a higher rate, should sell or
offer for sale, by card, sample, or trade list, within the limits
of the city of Baltimore, any goods, wares or merchandise
whatever, other than agricultural products and articles manufactured in the State, was held to be unconstitutional, because it
imposed a discriminating tax upon the residents of other States.
In Welton v. Missourt, (1875) 91 U. S. 275, a statute of
Missouri, by which "whoever shall deal in the selling of
patent or other medicines, goods, wares or merchandise, except
books, charts, maps and stationery, which are not the growth,
produce or manufacture of this State, by going from place to.
place to sell the same, is declared to be a peddler," and which
prohibited, under a penalty, dealing as a peddler, without
taking out a license and paying a certain sum therefor, but
required no license for selling, by going from place to place,
any goods, the growth, produce or manufacture of the State,
was held, by reason of such discrimination, to be unconstitutional and void as applied to a peddler within the State of
sewing machines manufactured without the State. Mr. Justice Field, in delivering judgment, said "The commercial

OCTOBER TERMf, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

power continues until the commodity has ceased to be the
subject of discriminating legislation by reason of its foreign
character. That power protects it, even after it has entered
the State, from any burdens imposed by reason of its foreign
origin. The act of Missouri encroaches upon this power in
this respect, and is therefore, in our judgment, unconstitutional and void." And he referred to the passages in the
opinions in Brown v 2faryland,and in Woodruff v Parhamm,
above cited, as supporting the conclusion. 91 U S. 282.
The statute of Missouri, now before the court, omits the discriminating words, "which are not the growth, produce or
manufacture of this State," upon which that decision was
grounded.
In Cook v Pennsybvanza, (1878) 97 U S. 566, in which a
tax upon auctioneers, measured by the amount of their sales,
was held to be invalid as to sales by auction of imported
goods in the original package, the statute under which the
tax was imposed made a discrimination against imported as
compared with domestic goods, and the decisions in Woodruff
v Parham, Hinson v Lott, and Tlelton v .Iissourq, above
cited, were referred to as controlling. 97 U S. 569, 573.
The decision in 7Machvne Co. v Gage, 100 U S. 676, above
stated, is thus shown to have been in exact accordance with
the law as declared in previous decisions. Indeed, Woodruff
v Parham, Hiinson v Lott, Ward v fMaryland, and IFelton v
2issourz, were cited in its support. 100 U S. 679.
That decision is no less consistent with the subsequent
decisions of this court, as will appear by an examination of
them.
In Webber v Yrge za, (1880) 103 U S. 344, 347, this court.
speaking by Mr. Justice Field, affirmed the doctrine that " the
right conferred by the patent laws of the United States to
inventors to sell their inventions and discoveries does not take
the tangible property, in which the invention or discovery
may be exhibited or carried into effect, from the operation of
the tax and license laws of the State," and the reason why a
tax imposed by a statute of Virginia upon persons selling,
without license, patented articles not owned by them, was

EMERT v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

held to be invalid, as applied to sales of sewing machines
manufactured in another State, was that the statute made
"a clear discrimination in favor of home manufacturers and
against the manufacturers of other States." 103 U. S. 350.
In Bown v Houston, (1885) 114 U. S. 622, coal brought in
flatboats from Pittsburg to New Orleans was still afloat in
the Mississippi River after its arrival, in the same boats, and
in the same condition in which it had been brought, and was.
held in order to be sold on account of the original owners by
the boatload. Yet this court unanimously decided that a tax
imposed by general statutes of the State of Louisiana upon
this coal was valid, and, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley,.
said "It was not a tax imposed upon the coal as a foreign
product, or as the product of another State than Louisiana,
nor a tax imposed by reason of the coal being imported orbrought into Louisiana, nor a tax imposed whilst it was in a
state of transit through that State to some other place of destination. It was imposed after the coal had arrived at its
destination and was put up for sale. The coal had come to.
its place of rest, for final disposal or use, and was a commodity
in the market of New Orleans." "The taxing of goods coming from other States, as such, or by reason of their so coming, would be a discriminating tax against them as imports,
and would be a regulation of interstate commerce, inconsistent.
with that perfect freedom of trade which Congress has seen
fit should remain undisturbed. But if, after their arrival
within the State- that being their place of destination for useafter this, they are subjected to a general tax
or trade -if,
laid alike on all property within the city, we fail to see how
such a taxing can be deemed a regulation of commerce, which
would have the objectionable effect referred to." 114 U S..
632-634-.
In Walling v .Michsgan, (1886) 116 U S. 446, the statute of
Michigan, which was held to be an unconstitutional restraint
of interstate commerce, imposed different taxes upon the business of selling or soliciting the sale of intoxicating liquors,
according ag the liquors were manufactured within the State,.
or were to be sent from another State, and this court, again

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley, declared that the police
power of the State "would be a perfect justification of the
act, if it did not discriminate against the citizens and products
of other States in a matter of commerce between the States,
and thus usurp one of the prerogatives of the national legislature." 116 U S. 460.
In Robbbns v Shelby Taxing Dzstrzot, (1887) 120 U S. 489,
indeed, the majority of the court held that a statute of Tennessee, requiring "all drummers, and all persons not having a
regular licensed house of business in the taxing district, offering for sale or selling goods, wares or merchandise therein
by sample," to pay a certain sum weekly or monthly for a
license, was, as applied to persons soliciting orders for goods
on behalf of houses doing business in other States, unconstitutional as inconsistent with the power of Congress to regulate
commerce among the several States.
But in the opinion of the majority of the court, delivered
by Mfr. Justice Bradley, it was expressly affirmed that a State,
although commerce might thereby be incidentally affected,
might pass "inspection laws to secure the due quality and
measure of products and commodities," and "laws to regulate
or restrict the sale of articles deemed injurious to the health
or morals of the community," and might impose "taxes upon
persons residing within the State or belonging to its population, and upon avocations and employments pursued therein,
not directly connected with foreign or interstate commerce,
or with some other employment or business exercised under
authority of the Constitution and laws of the United States,"
and also "taxes upon all property within the State, mingled
with and forming part of the great mass of property therein,"
although it could not "impose such taxes upon property
imported into the State from abroad, or from another State,
and not yet become part of the common mass of property
therein, and no discrimination can be made, by any such regulations, adversely to the persons or property of other States,
and no regulations can be made directly affecting interstate
,commerce." 120 U S. 493, 494.
The distinction on which that judgment proceeded is

EMERT v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

clearly brought out m the following passages of the opinion
"As soon as the goods are in the State and become part of
its general mass of property, they will become liable to be
taxed in the same manner as other property of similar character, as was distinctly held by this court in the case of
Brown v Houston, 114 U. S. 622. When goods are sent
from one State to another for sale, or in consequence of a sale,
they become part of its general property, and amenable to its
laws, provided that no discrimination be made against them
as goods from another State, and that they be not taxed by
reason of being brought from another State, but only taxed
in the usual way as other goods are. Brown v Houston, qua
8upra, MIach ne Co. v Gage, 100 U S. 676. But to tax the
sale of such goods, or the offer to sell them, before they are
brought into the State, is a very different thing, and seems to
us clearly a tax on interstate commerce itself." "The negotiation of sales of goods which are in another State, for the
purpose of introducing them into the State in which the negotiation is made, is interstate commerce." 120 U S. 497.
The decision in fachne Co. v Gage, as to a peddler carrying with him for sale goods already in the State, was thus
expressly recognized, and was distinguished from the case, then
before the court, of a drummer, selling, or soliciting orders for,
goods which were at the time in another State. And in the
dissenting opinion, delivered by Chief Justice Waite, in which
two other justices concurred, it was assumed, as incontrovertible, that another provision of the same statute, requiring a
license fee from. all peddlers within the district, could not be
held unconstitutional in its application to peddlers who came
with their goods from another State, and expected to go back
again. 120 U. S. 501.
In Asher v Texas, (1888) 128 U. S. 129, and in Brennan v
Titusville, (1894) 158 U S. 289, the decision in Robbns v
Shelby Taxzng Dmistrct was followed. Asher's case was
strictly one of a drummer soliciting orders on behalf of manufacturers residing in another State, and was decided upon the
ground that the circumstances in that case and in Robins's
case were substantially the same. 128 U S. 131. In Bren-

OCTOBER TER-M, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

nan's case, it was expressly agreed by the parties that the
goods offered by him for sale in Pennsylvania were afterwards
sent by their owner in the other State directly to the purchasers. 153 U S. 290. The case of Stoutenburgh v lenntc,
(1889) 129 U S. 14,1, in which an act of the legislature of the
District of Columbia, taxing commercial agents, "offering for
sale goods, wares or merchandise, by sample, catalogue or
otherwise," was held to be unconstitutional, as applied to a
commercial agent offering for sale goods of a Maryland house,
did not substantially differ in principle or in circumstances.
In leloup v -3lobile,(1888) 127 IT. S.640, in which a general license tax, imposed by a statute of Alabama on a telegraph company, -affecting its entire business, interstate as well
as domestic or internal, without discrimination, was held unconstitutional, M r. Justice Bradley, in delivering judgment,
took occasion to observe that "there are sufficient modes in
which the internal business, if not already taxed in some other
way, may be subjected to taxation, without the imposition of
a tax which covers the entire operations of the company,'
and to repeat that "this exemption of interstate and foreign
commerce from state regulation does not prevent the State
from taxing the property of those engaged in such commerce
located within the State, as the property of other citizens is
taxed, nor from regulating matters of local concern which may
incidentally affect commerce." 127 U S.6417, 649. See also
Pullman's Car Co. v Pennsylvansa, (1891) 141 U S. 18,
.Ficklenv Shelby Taxng Dtstrzct, (1892) 145 U S. 1, Postal
Telegraph Co. v Charleston, (1894) 153 U S. 692, Postal
Telegraph Co. v Adams, (1895) 155 U. S. 688.
In .Dent v West Virgsnia, (1889) 129 U S. 114, this court
upheld the validity of a statute of West Virginia, requiring
every person practising medicine in the State to obtain a certificate from the state board of health, and, speaking by Mr.
Justice Field, said "The power of the State to provide for
the general welfare of its people authorizes it to prescribe all
such regulations as, in its judgment, will secure or tend to
secure them against the consequences of ignorance and incapacity, as well as of deception and fraud." 129 U S.122.

EMERT v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

In -ezsy v Hardin, (1890) 135 U. S. 100, a statute of a
State, prohibiting the sale of intoxicating liquors without a
license, was, as applied to a sale of liquors in the original
packages and by the person who had brought them into the
State from another State, held to be inconsistent with the
power of Congress to regulate commerce among the several
States, and that conclusion was reached by applying to the
case the rule laid down by Chief Justice Marshall in -Brown
v Maryland, above cited, and stated by the present Chief
Justice in these words "That the point of time, when the
prohibition ceases and the power of the State to tax commences, is not the instant when the article enters the country,
but when the importer has so acted upon it that it has become
incorporated and mixed up with the mass of property in the
country, which happens when the original package is no
longer such in his hands, that the distinction is obvious between a tax which intercepts the import as an import on its
way to become incorporated with the general mass of property, and a tax which finds the article already incorporated
with that mass by the act of the importer." 135 U S. 110.
The decision, made at the same time, in Lyng v .Aick'igan,
was to the same effect. 135 U. S. 161. Presently after those
decisions. Congress, by the act of August 8, 1890, c. 728,
enacted that all intoxicating liquors or liquids brought into
or remaining in a State should, upon their arrival therein, be
subject, like domestic liquors, to the operation of laws enacted
by the State in the exercise of its police powers. 26 Stat. 313.
After Congress had thus, as said by the Chief Justice, "declared that imported liquors or liqmds shall, upon arrival in a
State, fall within the category of domestic articles of a similar
nature," this court unanimously held that intoxicating liquors,
brought into a State before this act of Congress, were subject
to the operation of the earlier statutes of the State, remainzing
unrepealed. In re Rakrer, (1891) 140 U. S. 545, 560, 564.
In Plumley v Massac usetts, decided at the present term,
the question, as stated by the court, was, "Does the freedom
of commerce among the States demand a recognition of the
right to practise a deception upon the public in the sale of
VOL. cLvI-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

any articles, even those that may have become the subject of
trade in different parts of the country 2 " After reviewing
many of the cases, citing the passages above quoted from the
opinions in Walling v .Aickhgan and in Dent v West F-i'gznma, and distinguishing Lesy v Hardin,the court answered
the question in the negative, and therefore held that the
statute of Massachusetts, prohibiting the sale of oleomargarine colored to imitate butter, was constitutional and valid, as
applied to a sale by an agent within the State of articles
manufactured in another State by citizens thereof. 155 U S.
461, 468, 471-474.
The necessary conclusion, upon authority, as well as upon
principle, is that the statute of Missouri, now in question, is
nowise repugnant to the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the several States, but is a valid exercise of
the power of the State over persons and business within its
borders.
Judgment afirmed.

In 'e LEHIGH MINING AND MANUFACTURING
COMPANY, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted January 28, 1895. - Decided March 4,1895.

A corporation organized under the laws of Pennsylvania brought an action
in ejectment in the Circuit Court of the United States in the Western
District of Virginia. The defendant by plea set up that a conveyance
of the land had been made to the Pennsylvania corporation collusively,
and for the purpose of conferring jurisdiction on the Circuit Court.
The court was of opinion that the allegations of the plea were sustained,
and dismissed the action for want of jurisdiction. The plaintiff duly
excepted and the exceptions were allowed and signed. The plaintiff then
prayed for a writ of error to this court upon the question of jurisdiction, and a writ was allowed "as prayed for" at the same term of court.
At a subsequent term the plaintiff applied to the court below for an
order certifying the question of jurisdiction to this court pursuant to
§ 5 of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517 26 Stat. 826. This application being denied, the plaintiff applied to this court for leave to file

