OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

combination in question was formed, may not, in view of the
facts disclosed, be effectual to accomplish the object of the act
of 1890, I perceive no difficulty in the way of the court passing
a decree declaring that that combination imposes an unlawful
restraint upon trade and commerce among the States, and perpetually enjoining it from further prosecuting any business
pursuant to the unlawful agreements under which it was
formed or by which it was created. Such a decree would be
within the scope of the bill, and is appropriate to the end
which Congress intended to accomplish, namely, to protect the
freedom of commercial intercourse among the States against
combinations and conspiracies which impose unlawful restraints
upon such intercourse.
For the reasons stated I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court.

STUART v. EASTON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No.151. Argued January 15, 1895.-Decided January 21, 1895.

An averment that the plaintiff is "a citizen of London, England," is not
sufficient to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction on the ground of his
alienage, the defendant being a citizen and on the question being raised
in this court, the case may be remanded with leave to apply to the Cir-

cuit Court for amendment and for further proceedings.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

_MX"
C. Berkeley Taylor and _Mr A. T _,eedley, (with whom
ir W Brooke li'awle on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.

was

Mir -U. J Steele for defendants in error.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE Plaintiff in error is described throughout the record as "a citizen of London, England," and the
,defendants as "corporations of the State of Pennsylvania."
As the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court confessedly depended

ROUSE v. LETCHER.
Statement of the Case.

on the alienage of plaintiff in error, and that fact was not
made affirmatively to appear, the judgment must be reversed
at the costs of plaintiff in error, and the cause be remanded
to the Circuit Court with leave to apply for amendment and
for further proceedings. Bsnghamr v. Cabot, 3 Dall. 382,
.Mossman v Higgnson, 4 Dall. 12, Capron v 'Fan _Voorden,
2 Oranch, 125, Jackson v Twentymzn, 2 Pet. 136, Conolly v
Taylor, 2 Pet. 556, Brown v Keene, 8 Pet. 115, Robertson v.
Cease, 97 U. S. 646, Bdrs v Preston, 111 U S. 252, 263,
Denny v Pzronz, 141 U S. 121, Borne v George E. Zamamond Co., 155 U S. 393.
Judgment reversed.

ROUSE v. LETCEER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 5S2. Submitted December 17, 1894. -Decided

January 21, 1895.

A judgment in a Circuit Court of Appeals upon the claim of an intervenor,
set up in a Circuit Court against the receiver of a railroad appointed by
that court in a suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage upon the road, is a
final judgment which cannot be reviewed in this court.

M
oiON
to dismiss. The Mercantile Trust Company, a corporation of New York, filed its bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Kansas, June 8, 1888, against
the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company, a corporation of Kansas, for the foreclosure of certain mortgages and
deeds of trust, and George A. Eddy and H. C. Cross were
thereupon appointed receivers of the company, and took
charge of its property, which consisted, among other things,
of a line of railroad runmng from Hannibal, Missouri, to Parsons, Kansas, and to Fort Worth, Texas. Ancillary proceedings were also had in the Circuit Courts of the United States
through whose jurisdiction the railway ran. On October 11,
1890, Annie Letcher filed her intervening petition in that
cause in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern

