OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

Further than this, it isplain from what has already been
stated that the plaintiff knew nothing of the special dangers
attending his work, or that he was at all informed by the
defendants on the subject. His testimony is positive on this
point, and is not contradicted by any one. With that fact
shown there was no ground for any charge of contributory
negligence on his part, and with the defendants' negligence
established, as stated, there could have been no serious objection to the damages awarded to the plaintiff for the
dreadful injuries sustained. The sum recovered was a moderate compensation to be awarded to h un.
J'udgment ajfirmed.

CUNNINGHAM v. MACON & BRUNSWICK RAILIROAD COMPANY
APPEAL FROMf THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 91.

Argued November 22, 23, 1894.-Decided March 4, iS95.

In 18G the legislature of Georgia enacted a law loaning the credit of the
State to a railroad company by endorsing its bonds to the amount of
$10,000 per mile, and further providing that the endorsement should
operate as a mortgage on all the property of the company. These bonds
were issued to the amount of $1,950,000, endorsed and sold. In 1868 the
new constitution of the State then adopted provided that the State
should not loan its credit to any company without a provision that the
whole property of the company should be bound to the State as security
prior to any other indebtedness. In 1870 the legislature passed an act
"to amend" the act of 1866, authorizing the governor to endorse the
company's bonds to a further extent of $3000 per mile " in addition to
$10,000 as recited in the act of which this is amendatory." Tme new
bonds were issued, varying in form from the former bonds, were endorsed
by the State, and were sold. In 1873 the company defaulted in the payment of the bonds of 1866, and the governor took possession of the property. The legislature then by joint resolution declared the bonds of 1866
to be valid, and those of 1870 to be unconstitutional. In 1875 the gov
ernor ordered the property sold under the provisions of the act of 1866,
and the sale took place that year, the State being the purchaser at

CUNMINGHAMi

v.._TACON & BRUNSW'K RAILROAD. 401
Statement of the Case.

$1,000,000 and taking the conveyance. The bonds issued under the act
of 1866 were then taken up and retired. The holders of the bonds issued
in 1870 filed a bill in equity to set aside the sale, but the bill was dismissed upon the ground that the State was a necessary party, and could
not'be brought in without its consent. Meanwhile, the State having sold
the whole property a supplemental bill was filed in that case by leave of
court against the purchasers, attempting to charge the property in their
hands with a trust in favor of the holders of the bonds of 1870, charging
that the State had been their trustee to enforce their equitable rights, and
had been guilty of a breach of its trust by selling the property at a price
much below its real value. Held,
(1) That the plaintiffs were not entitled to be subrogated to the mortgage security taken by the State, and as such to maintain this suit,
because the property had passed out of the possession of the
State when this suit was brought, and because the State was a
necessary party to the enforcement of such a claim,
(2) That the only bonds secured by the statutory mortgage were those
issued in 1866, and that those issued in 1870 were not secured by it,
(3) That even if they had been secured by it these complainants were
3unior creditors to those holding the bonds of 1866, with rights
subordinate to theirs, and it was their duty to attend the sale and
protect themselves by raising the bid to an amount sufficient for
that purpose;
(4) That they could not avoid the sale without tendering reimbursement
to the first mortgage creditors, whic they had not done.

TH, Macon and Brunswick Railroad Company was chartered by the legislature of Georgia in 1856. Acts of 1856,
No. 119, p. 181. By the act of December 3, 1866, the legislature of the State authorized the governor to endorse the
bonds of the road to the extent of $10,000 per mile. The act
reads as follows

"An, act to extend the asd of the State to the completion qf the
.Macon,and Brunswick railroad,andfor other uwiposes.
" Whereas the Macon and Brunswick railroad has been
completed to the distance of fifty miles from the city of
Macon, and is thoroughly equipped, and daily trains are
running thereon, and seventy miles additional are graded and
ready for the superstructure, and whereas its completion to
Brunswick would greatly inure to the benefit of the State in
developing its agricultural, commercial, and manufacturing
interests, and whereas, by reason of the financial embarrassVOL. cLvi-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

ments resulting from the late war, the stockholders of said
railroad are unable to supply the capital necessary to the
completion of this great work
"SECTION 1. Be it enacted, etc., That his Excellency, the
Governor, be and he is hereby authorized to place the endorsement of the State on the bonds of the Macon and Brunswick
Railroad Company which said company may issue, to the
amount of ten thousand dollars per mile for as many miles of
said road as are now completed, and the like amount per mile
for every additional ten miles, as the same may be completed
and placed in running order, on the following terms and
conditions, to wit Before any such endorsement shall be
made the governor shall be satisfied that as much of the
road as the said endorsement shall be applied for is really
finished and in complete running order, and that said road is
free from all liens, or mortgages, or other encumbrances, which
may in any manner endanger the security of the State and
upon the further condition and express understanding that any
endorsement of said bonds, when thus made, shall not only
vest the title to all property of every kind which may be purchased with said bonds in the State, until all the bonds so
endorsed shall be paid, but the said endorsement shall be, and
is hereby understood to operate as a prior lien or mortgage on
all of the property of the company, to be enforced as hereinafter provided for.
"SEc. 2. In the event of any bond or bonds endorsed by the
State, as provided in the first section of this act, or the interest due thereon, shall not be paid by said railroad company at
maturity, or when due, it shall be the duty of the governor,
upon information of such default by any holder of said bond
or bonds, to seize and take possession of all the property of
said railroad company, and apply the earnings of said road to
the extinguishment of said bond, or bonds, or coupons, and he
shall sell the said road and its equipments, and other property
belonging to said company in such manner and at such time
as in his judgment may best subserve the interest of all
concerned." Acts of 1866, No. 178, p. 127.
Under this authority the governor endorsed the bonds of

OUNNINGHAM v. MACON & BRUINSW'K RAILROAD. 403
Statement of the Case.

'the company to the extent of $1,950,000.
thus entitled
"State of Georgia.
"UNITED

The bonds were

STATES OF AMERICA.

"Macon & Brunswick Railroad Company. First and Only Mortgage Bond."

They acknowledged that the :Macon and Brunswick Rail'
road Company was indebted to Charles J Jenkins, as governor of Georgia, and to his successors in office, or to the
bearer thereof, and also recited the statutory mortgage, which
was reserved by the State in the act of 1866. In June, 1870,
the president of the railroad company executed an instrument
in which he stated that these bonds had been issued in conformity with the statute, and that the company was desirous
of confirming the lien held by the State to secure their pay"
ment, and that, therefore, he, as president, recognized, on
behalf of the company, the validity of the statutory mortgage
and of the lien created thereby To this instrument the State
was not a party In October, 1870, the legislature of Georgia
passed the following act

"An act to amend an act to extend the azd of the State to the
completion of the Jftacon and Brunswick railroad, and
for other _vuToses.
"Whereas the Macon and Brunswick railroad has been
completed to Brunswick, requiring a greater outlay of money
than was originally contemplated, to place the same in complete running order, and to furnish the necessary cars, engines,.
and machinery, and whereas the State has, by recent legis:
lation, endorsed the bonds of other railroads to the extent of
fifteen thousand dollars per mile
" SEcTroiw 1.

The general assembly of the State of Georgza

do enact, That the above-recited act be so amended as to
authorize the governor to place the endorsements of the State,
to the extent of three thousand dollars per mile, upon the bonds
of said Macon and Brunswick Railroad Company, in addition
to ten thousand dollars, as recited in the act of which this is
-"
amendatory

OCTOBIR TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

"SEm. 2. Be bt further enacted, That all laws and parts of

laws in conflict with this act be, and the same are, hereby
repealed."
Under this act bonds to the extent of $600,000 were issued
by the railroad and endorsed by the State. These bonds
differed in several particulars from those of the first issue.
Thus, instead of acknowledging that the corporation was indebted to the governor of tne State, they declared that it was
indebted to Morris K . Jesup, of the city of New York, or
bearer, they made no reference to the mortgage or lien held
by the State under the act of 1S66, nor did they purport to
be secured by mortgage. Each of them contained this recital "This is one of a series to the extent of $3000 per mile
of the Macon and Brunswick Railroad Company, endorsed by
the State of Georgia in accordance with an act of legislature
passed October 27, 1870." At the time this act was passed
the constitution of Georgia contained the following provision
"The general assembly shall pass no law making the State
a stockholder in any corporate company , nor shall the credit
of the State be granted or loaned to aid any company without a provision that the whole property of the company shall
be bound for the security of the State prior to any other debt
or lien, except to laborers, nor to any company in which there
is not already an equal amount invested by private persons,
nor for any other object than a work of public improvement."
Constitution of 1868, Art. 3, § 5.
In August, 1872, the legislature of Georgia passed a resolution declaring that the State's guaranty placed on the
bonds of the Mlacon and Brunswick Railroad Company was
binding. In 1873 the company defaulted in the payment of
interest on the bonds issued under the act of 1866, and which
bore the State's endorsement. In July of that year the governor issued a proclamation reciting the passage of the act of
1866, the issue of the bonds thereunder, and the company's
default. le announced also that, in pursuance of the power
conferred upon him by that act, he had seized the company's
property and had appointed an agent of the State to take possession and control of the same. In March, 1875, the legis-

CUNNINGHAM v.. .MACON & BRUNSW'K RAILROAD. 405
-Statement of the Case.

lature passed a resolution declaring that the $1,950,000 issue
of bonds which had been endorsed under the act of 1866
were valid and binding obligations of the State, but that the
$600,000 issue under the act of 1870 was unconstitutional,
null, and void, that it was the sense of the general assembly
that the railroad, with its franchises, equipments, and appurtenances, should be sold by the governor at an early date, and,
if considered practicable, as early as June 1, 1875, at public or
private sale, and upon such terms and for such a price in
money or first mortgage endorsed bonds of the Macon and
Brunswick Railroad Company, or bonds of the State, as in his
judgment might be consistent with.the interests of the State,
and that no commission or percentage should be authorized or
allowed under such sale.
In April, 1875, the governor issued his executive order for
the sale of the railroad property which had been under
seizure since 1873. This order, after also reciting the act of
1866, and the endorsement by the State of the bonds issued
thereunder, proceeded as follows
"Whereas, among other provistons of said second section
of said act, it is expressly provided that after the seizure
of all the property of said company, as aforesaid, the governor 'shall sell the road and its equipments and other
property belonging to said company, in such manner and at
such times as, in his judgment, may best subserve the interest
of all concerned,' and having become satisfied that it will be
for the best interest of the State and all concerned that all the
property of the company seized under said order be sold at an
early day it is therefore
"Ordered, that all the property seized, as aforesaid, now in
the possession of Edward A. Flewellen, receiver of the property of the Macon and Brunswick Railroad Company, under
said order, be sold to the highest bidder at public outcry at
the depot of the Macon and Brunswick Railroad Company,
in the city of Macon, between the hours of 10 o'clock A.M.
and 4 o'clock P.m. on the first Tuesday in June next.
"The said sale will be made for cash, for bonds of this
State, or the first mortgage bonds of the company, endorsea.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

in behalf of the State, under the authority of the act approved
December 3, 1866. It is further
"Ordered, that the said Edward A. Flewellen, as receiver
aforesaid, make out an advertisement under this order, setting
forth with requisite particularity all the property to be sold
as aforesaid, and publish the same in such public gazettes in
this State and in the city of New York as, in his judgment,
will give proper publication to said sale."
The sale thus directed took place on the date fixed, and the
property was bought in by the governor, on behalf of the
State, for $1,000,000, the purchase having been authorized by
the legislature of the State. The governor executed a formal
convevance of the purchase to the State on June 3, 1875,
and the State subsequently retired the $1,950,000 of bonds,
which had been issued and endorsed under the act of 1866.
In September, 1877, the complainants-appellants, alleging
themselves to be holders and owners of bonds of the Macon
and Brunswick Railroad Company, endorsed by the State
under the act of 1870, which, they averred, they had acquired
in open market after the State had acknowledged her liability
thereon, and before the passage of the act declaring the endorsement invalid, filed their bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Georgia against the
company and certain persons named therein, "styling themselves directors of the Macon and Brunswick Railroad," and
J W Renfroe, treasurer, and Alfred H. Colqmtt, governor
of Georgia. This bill, after setting out the facts substantially
as here given, charged that the sale made by the governor
was void for the following reasons
"1st. Because neither the legislature nor the governor had
the right to exclude the $600,000 series of endorsed bonds
from being used as so much cash in the purchase of said road
at their face value. Certainly they were entitled to be so used
in the event of the exhaustion of the $1,950,000, which themselves should have- received as cash at par.
"2d. Because the governor was not authorized to bid on
said property for the State, and the State bad no constitutional power to make the purchase, or if said sale is not void

CUNNINGHAM v. MACON & BRUNSW'K RAILROAD. 407
Statement of the Case.

it is certainly voidable, because under the statutory and executed mortgages the State is the trustee of the property mortgaged for the benefit of the bondholders, and had no right to
buy at her own sale as such trustee without incurring the risk
of having such sale set aside at the instance of any beneficiary
under the trust, and your orator as such beneficiary elects to
set said sale aside."
The bill also alleged the taking up by the State of the
$1,950,000 of bonds issued under the act of 1866, subsequent
to her purchase of the property, and averred, in the alternative, that if the sale was not void, because of the fact that the
mortgage was solely to indemnify the State, then the holders
of the bonds issued under the act of 1870 were entitled to a
ratable distribution of the proceeds with the holders of those
endorsed under the act of 1866, and therefore should receive
an equalpro rata share of all sums paid or to be paid by the
State on the retired issue of $1,950,000 under the act of 1866.
The bill was demurred to by Renfroe, treasurer, and Colquitt,
governor, and after hearing was dismissed. The complainants thereupon prosecuted their appeal to this court, where
the decree below was affirmed. Cunnwngkam v Xacon &
Brunswwk Railroad, 109 U. S. 446. Meanwhile, subsequent
to the decree of dismissal below, the railroad and its appur,
tenances were sold by the State, under proper legislative
authority, for $1,250,000, and through a series of transfers,
some of them being the result of judicial foreclosure of mortgagres, the road finally became the property of the East
Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railroad Company In 1886,
after the filing of the mandate of this court, affirming the
decree of dismissal, a motion was made below for a decree
pro confesso against the Macon and Brunswick Railroad Company, and leave was given to file a supplemental bill making
the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railroad Company
a party defendant. The amended bill was duly filed. This
bill, after substantially reiterating the avermfents of the original bill, and charging likewise that the sale at which the
governor bought in the property on behalf of the State was
null and void, alleged. that the East Tennessee, Virogniaa and

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Georgia Railroad Company was a purchaser with notice of
the illegality, and then proceeded as follows
"And your orator charges that the said State of Georgia
held the said property after the seizure thereof as a trust for
the payment of the obligations of the said the Macon and
Brunswick Railroad Company to the extent of the avails of
a sale of the said property to be made for the interest of all
creditors of said company, with the privilege unto the said
State of protection, first, out of said avails, of its own endorsement of the bonds of said company, that the said State, in
and by the resolution aforesaid, declared its endorsement of
the bonds held by your orator to be not binding on it, and in
advance of demand upon it by your orator refused thereby to
pay the said endorsement or to enforce its said privilege of
protection of said endorsement from the avails of said property so in its hands, that your orator thereby became at least
entitled to the advantage of the said mortgage lien of the
said State for his protection , to have the said property sold
with proper regard to his interests and the interests of his
fellow-bondholders, to be allowed to participate freely with
all other lienors of the said railroad at the sale of the said
railroad property by his said trustee, in bidding upon said
property and paying therefor in the bonds held by him, hereinbefore mentioned, with due regard to the protection of any
4nd all prior liens and the costs and expenses of sale.
"And your orator shows that in and by the said resolutions under which said sale was made, and under color of
which the said trustee for your orator became possessed of
the said railroad property, the said State of Georgia gave
notice of its intention to commit a breach of trust by excluding your orator from participation in said sale on equitable terms with the holders of the first mortgage bonds, by
excluding your orator, by the provisions thereof, from participation in the avails of said sale oi' any benefit therefrom
by announcing openly to the world its intention to sell the
said road in its own interest rather than in the interest of
the creditors of said company, and by divers other acts and
announcements, all concurring to demonstrate positively to

CUNNIINGHAMi

v.'MACON & BRUIN SW'iK RAILROAD.

409

Statement of the Case.

the world that the said trustee had determined to exclude
-your orator from any benefit under the said trust, and that it
would not regard or protect in any respect the interests of
your orator and his fellow-bondholder& in the said sale or
'distribution of avails.
"And your orator shows that in point of fact the said
,State of Georgia, at the said sale. did commit the said breach
:of trust -according to its previously announced intention, did
exclude your orator and his fellow-bondholders from their
rights of equitable protection on sale by bidding and paying
the. bonds held by them, did sell the said road in a manner
contrary to the interests of the creditors generally of the
said road for a very small part of its real value, the price
nominally bid therefor being one million dollars and the
real value thereof being four million dollars, and did 'sell
the road to itself for said price in its own interest and without regard to the interests of the beneficiaries of the trust, ineluding your orator, and thereupon, in equity, held the said
property as a trust for your orator and subject to his lien for
the payment of his said bonds.
"And your orator avers that the said the East Tennessee,
-Virginia and Georgia Railroad Company and the East
Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railway Company had full
notice in the purchase of said property made by each of the
said breach of trust by said trustee, and took the said property
subject to the duties and liabilities of said trustee towards
'your orator -that is to say, with the lien of your orator
unaffected and undischarged by the sale of said property
made by said 'trustee in breach of his fiduciary duty, and
that the said last-mentioned company now holds said property as trustee for your orator and subject to your orator's lien
for the payment of the said indebtedness to him."
The East Tennessee Company answered the supplemental
bill, stating the various conveyances through which the title
had finally come to be vested in itself, and asserting the validity thereof. All the facts above stated appear on the face of
the pleadings and exhibits. Before the sale was made by the
State, John P Branch, a holder of bonds of the same series

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Appellants.

as those held by these complainants, had filed a bill in the
Circuit Court of the Southern District of Georgia, asking for
an injunction to prevent the sale, but the application was
denied.

Branch v

Macon and Brunswwk Railroad, 2

Woods, 385. Branch had also taken a decree pro confesso
against the Macon and Brunswick Railroad Company, and
lie was allowed to intervene below and become a party to
the present suit, in which lie claims the same rights as
those asserted in the original and supplemental bill. The
cause was submitted to the court on bill, answer, and exhibits, and resulted in a decree of dismissal. The case was
then brought here by appeal.
_21 CharlesN lfest for appellants. Mr W IF
V .lontgomery
and Mr Dantel -H. Ckamberlatn, each filed a brief for same.

3Jr George Hoadly for the East Tennessee, Virginia and
Georgia Railway Company, appellee.
21!r John Howard closed for appellants.

I. In respect to the construction of the act of December
4, 1866, there are two classes of cases to be considered
(1) When the State assumes a liability for a corporation,
and the corporation conveys its property in trust as an
indemnity to the State against loss, and the bondholders of
the corporation take nothing. Chanberlazn v. St. Paul &
Sioux City Railroad,92 U. S. 299.

(2) When the State assumes a liability for a corporation,
and the corporation conveys its property in trust as an
indemnity to the State, and also in trust to secure its bondholders as its principal debtors. Hand v Savannah & Charleston Railroad,12 S. C. 314, cited and approved in Tennessee
Bond Cases, 114 U. S. 688, and also Railroadsv Schutte, 103

U S. 118.
In this last case, it was held that the endorsement by the
State of Florida of the bonds of the railroad company was
void, because unconstitutional, but it was also held that

CUNNINGHAM v. MACON & BRUNSW'K RAILROAD. 411
Argument for Appellants.

such fact did not impair the validity of the statutory mortgage
and trust in favor of the bondholders of the company And
that case was cited and approved in Supermsors v Stanley,
105 U S. 312.
Should it be held that the endorsement by the State of
Georgia of the bonds of the Macon and Brunswick Railroad
Company was unconstitutional and void, Railroadsv Schutte
would directly apply in favor of the express statutory trust
for the bondholders of this company, whose bonds were thus
endorsed.
II. And now as to the legal effect and operation of the
act of Georgia of October 27, 1870, as an amendment to the
original act of December 3, 1866.
There appears to be nothing in the constitution of Georgia
regulating the manner in which amendments to previous acts
shall be made, as is provided in many of the States, and therefore the legal effect of this amendment must be governed by
the general law and the unlimited power of the legislature of
Georgia to amend its acts of assembly in any manner it may
deem proper and efficient for the purpose. The act of 1866
had been in full operation, and its purpose, intendment and
effect are presumed to have been fully understood as securing
an indemnity to the State for its endorsement of the bonds of
the railroad company, and as an express trust for the payment of those bonds, together with ample power and machinery provided for those purposes. In 1870, the construction
of the whole road, from Macon to Brunswick, had been completed, but the road was a dead thing, unless it could be
furnished with equipments for its operation. The amendatory
act was passed to accomplish that object, as its title and its
preamble show, and then the act proceeded to amend the
original act by authorizing the issue of additional bonds, with
the endorsement of the State thereon, and repealed all acts in
conflict with that legislation. The two acts must be taken as
one act, and as having all of the effect of the terms and provisions of the original act in respect to the protection of the
State and the bondholders, as if they were literally incorporated in the amendatory act in totzdem. verbzs. iolbrook v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Appellants.

Nichol, 36 Illinois, 161, 167. And if the act were susceptible
of two constructions, one of which would so emasculate it as
to make it meaningless and useless, and the other would be
reasonable, and would vitalize and give it full legal effect and
operation, and especially if in harmony with, and in effectuation of, previous legislation and its object and policy, the last
hould be adopted. Sutherland on Statutory Construction,

§ 323.
The provision of the state constitution tn. re nata was of
course impresssd upon the act, and the question then arises,
whose duty was it to see that there was a fulfilment of the
constitutional requirements before the endorsement of the
State could be validly made upon the new bonds to be issued 2
And here, again, there are two classes of cases
(a) One requiring the purchaser to ascertain and determine
for himself, from public records, to which he is referred, some
extrinsic fact or facts necessary to authorize the act to be
done which is to create the liability Sutif v Lake County
Oommsswners, 147 U S. 230, 237, in which the two classes
of cases are collated and distinguished in the opinion of the
court delivered by Mr. Justice Gray
(b) The other requires such facts to be ascertained and
determined by some officer or officers whose certificate as to
the fulfilment of the necessary requirements is in the nature
of an adjudication, and is conclusive upon the subject.
liaee County v Potter, 142 U. S. 355. Of this class is -this
case.
(1) By the first section of the original act, the governor
of the State was constituted the tribunal that was to be
"satisfied" that the precedent conditions as to the State's
endorsement had been complied with and fulfilled, and his
endorsement of the bonds was at once a decision upon the
subject, and an assurance and announcement to the public
of the fact of such compliance and fulfilment, and whether
right or wrong was binding upon all parties. And hence
the State of Georgia has never made any question as to the
validity of the endorsement of those bonds, but on the contrary has ever recognized it.

CUNNINGHAMvt v. MACON & BRUNSW'K RAILROAD. 413
Argument for Appellants.

The governor was charged with the same duty and judicial
function in respect to the bonds authorized to be issued and
endorsed by the amendment of 1870, with the addition only
of ascertaining and determining or being "satisfied" as to
whether or not the constitutional requirements bad been fulfilled and complied with, and his endorsement upon those
bonds was equally an express decision, certificate, and announcement to the public as to the fulfilment of those
requirements, and was equally the imprimatur of the State
to that effect.
(2) But the legislature subsequently undertook to establish
a tribunal with ample powers in the nature of an appellate
jurisdiction for the investigation and review of the action of
the governor in the premises, by providing for the constitution of a commission composed of- three persons, one to be
selected by the President of the Senate, and the other two by
the Speaker of the House of Representatives, clothed with
full authority and power, and with the ample time of sixty
days, to inquire into the whole matter, and for that purpose
with "full power and authority to examine witnesses under
oath, to send for persons, books, and papers, and to exercise
such other powers as might be necessary to carry into effect
the provisions of the act." That judicial commission performed its duty and reported in favor of the validity of the
action of the governor, and the legislature adopted that report;
and by a joint resolution enacted "that the State's guarantee
on the bonds of the Macon and Brunswick Railroad Company
is binding on the State."
III. Qontract and estoppel, and violation of contractual
obllgation. It was under these circumstances that the appellants purchased the bonds now in suit, for valuable consideration, in open market, not only without any notice of invalidity
as to the State's endorsement or touching the express trust of
which the State was trustee for the payment of the bonds,
but, on the contrary, with the above solemn certificates and
assurances of the State as to the regularity and binding effect
of the whole proceedings in the premises. There was thus
formed between the State and the company on the one hand

OCTOBER TERMI, 1894.
Argument for Appellants.

and the purchasers on the other, a valid contract, the obligation of which was inviolable by anything that either the State
or the company could do, and which the State was estopped
from attempting to undo. It was a contract on the part of
the State, not only that it would be bound by its endorsement
of the bonds, but that it would faithfully execute the express
trust it had assumed for the payment of the bonds, interest
and principal. Its subsequent repudiation of its contract did
not affect its validity and binding obligation any more than
did its repudiation of its contract in Fletcher v Peck, 6
Oranch, 87, which was the prototype of this case.
IV Sale of the trust property afraudulent breach of trust
face, and full notice of the fact to the success?.ve
upon tzs
alienees. The sale of the trust property in disregard of the
rights of these bondholders was a plain breach of trust, and
its purchase by the State at its own sale as trustee was not
only another plain breach of trust, but was fraudulent _per se,
and its conveyance to itself bore the fraud upon its face and
that fraud followed the title wherever it went.
No proof of actual fraud need be adduced by the beneficiaries of the trust when following the trust property, for the
purchase by the trustee was inherently a breach of trust, and
the law conclusively presumes it to have been fraudulent, and
if, in a court of equity, such a transaction can ever be permitted to stand, except with the consent of the beneficiaries
of the trust, the burden of proof is upon the trustee and his
alienees to show that the property sold for its fair value, and
that uberrtmafides was exercised in the sale, and to " vindicate
the transaction from all suspicion." 1 Perry on Trusts, §§ 197,
195, 277, 2 Perry on Trusts, §§ 602 o, 602p, 602 v), I1ormley
v Wormley, 8 Wheat. 421, iXichoud v. Girod,4 How 503.
In the absence of such affirmative proof, a fraudulent
breach of trust is indelibly stamped upon the face of the
transaction, and is notice to all the world tracing title
through that transaction of its inherent vice, and of the
unaffected rights of the beneficiaries in the property For,
though the purchase was thus a fraudulent breach of trust,
ex rez necessdate, and apparent upon its face, the conveyance

CUNNINGHAM v. 31ACON & BRUNSW'K RAILROAD. 415
Argument for Appellants.

of the trustee passed the legal title, which, indeed, was abso
lute at law, but subject in equity to its original trust, and the
holder is himself a trustee for the beneficiaries.
1 Perry on
Trusts, §§ 274, 374, 355, 2 Perry, § 602 k, Taylor v King,
6 Munford, 358, 366, 8. C. 8 Am. Dec. 746, Pownal v Taylor,
10 Leigh, 172, 183, 34 Am. Dec. 725, Underwod v. XAEcVeigh,
23 Grat. 409.
Such is the case here. The conveyance from the State of
Georgia, the trustee, to itself of June 3, 1873, expressly
recites the fraudulent breach of trust as the origin of its title.
The conveyance of the 28th of February, 1880, from the State
of Georgia to the Macon and Brunswick Railroad Company
expressly recites the same thing,, and reserves a lien on the
property for the payment of the purchase money
The next conveyance refers to that lien, and hence to the
conveyance in which it was reserved. The next conveyance
also refers to that lien and its reservation. So as to the next
conveyance, and so as to the next and last conveyance -that
by which the legal title, clothed with its original trust, passed
to the defendant, the East Tennessee, Virginia & Georgia Railroad Company, whica consequently holds it as trustee for the
beneficiaries of that trust, the appellants and their associates.
It thus appears that, in addition to the notice given to the
world by the officially published acts of the legislature and
the proclamations and advertisements of the governor of
Georgia, touching the,-manner in wlnch and the purpose for
which the sale of this trust property was to be conducted in
breach of trust, and in addition to the notice given by the lis
pendens, here is, in the chain of title leading up to the fraudulent breach of trust by the trustee in itself purchasing the
trust property, actual and positive notice to all intermediate
holders, and to the present holder, of that fraudulent breach
of trust, as the origin and source of the only title conveyed
to and now held by the defendant company
Caveat emptor
applied from the first to the last sale and conveyance made.
V The appellants not m default. The appellants did all
they reasonably could and in good time, first, to prevent by
injunction the contemplated violation of their rights, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Appellants.

their bill for that purpose was filed on the 29th of September,
1867, while the trust property was still in the hands of their
original trustee, the State of Georgia, and, besides the officers
of the State, the bill made the Macon & Brunswick Railroad,
their principal debtor and the equitable owner of the property,
a, party It was, at least, doubtful whether or not the State of
Georgia was a party to the suit, as is shown by the elaborate
opinion of this court itself, dismissing the bill for the reason
that she was a party, and the dissenting opinion of two of the
learned justices to the contrary
The suit was a pending suit against the officers of the State,
as well as against the other defendants, until the bill was
finally dismissed by the mandate of this court, which came
down and was filed on the 21st of October, 1885, and was made
the decree of the court below on the 16th of December, 1885.
Meanwhile, all of the mesne conveyances of this trust property
had taken place, and the present defendant company was then
the holder and in possession. All of those transactions, made
under such circumstances, were obviously made, upon the
established doctrine of ls pendens, with legal notice of the
pendency of the litigation and subject to its ultimate results,
and to amended and supplemental proceedings, germane to
the original bill and becoming a part of the original case by
being prosecuted for the effectuation of its leading objectthe subjection of the trust property to the trust rights of the
complainants. After dismissal of their bill, as to the officers
of the State, upon a difficult and doubtful point of law, the
complainants were certainly entitled to a reasonable time
within which to look about them, ascertain the complicated
facts of intermediate occurrence since the original sale, obtain
legal advice, and prepare their pleadings when a course of
proceeding should be decided upon. Their supplemental bill,
bringing in the present defendant company as a party and
claiming to hold it as a trustee for their benefit, was filed by
leave of court on December 30, 1886.
This was done under what was said by this court in its
decision mn this case, 109 U S. 446, and as it is not pretended
that the defendant company was induced to make its purchase

CUNNINGHAM v, MACON & BRUNSW'K RAILROAD. -41,7
Argument for Appellants.

of the trust property by anything that the complainants had
done, or had left undone, and as in addition to all other
modes of notice of the infirmity of their title, they had, in its
direct chain, actual and positive notice of its infirmity by
,reason of its origin in a breach of trust, fraudulent, per se, it is
not perceived upon what ground of laches, or prescription, the
just rights of the complainants, which were originally attached
to the property, and have followed it to a present responsible
holder, amenable to the jurisdiction of the court, can be defeated.
VI. As to partses and the jurtsdictton of this court.
Georgia is neither an indispensable, nor a necessary, nor a
proper party
(a) The present controversy is by and between the complainants and the defendant company, its trustee, in possession. The complainants have now no controversy with the
State of Georgia, and neither need nor ask anything at its
hands. All they need and ask is that their trust property,
now in the hands and possession of a competent trustee, shall
be applied and the trust executed for their benefit.
(b) If Georgia has any rights, or interests, which it wishes
to assert or considers as worthy of assertion, or protection, she
can become a party to this suit, if not inhibited from doing
so by her constitutional prohibition of 1879, made just before
the fraudulent sale of this trust property in 1880 to the new
company got up for the purpose of the sale.
(c) But if she has chosen to encircle herself with an environment of impenetrable immunity from the judicial investigation
of her questionable or fraudulent acts, first by causing the
,adoption of the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States, (Chzsolm v The State of Georgza,) and
then by her own constitutional amendment, why, of course,
.that is her own affair. But, notwithstanding, it would seem
that the constitutional and legal rights of the citizens of other
,States of the Union still remain unimpaired, and are to be
determined as they shall judicially appear in the courts of the
United States, in the absence of any ostrich State, that should
stick its head in the sand, or turtle-like enclose itself in its
exclusive shell.
mvi-27

OCTOBER TERf, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

However, Georgia has now no interest in this controversy,
except the alleged lien for the purchase money of the fraudulent sale, which is subordinate to the rights and lien of the
complainants. Railroad Co. v Soutter, 13 Wall. 517. She
has repudiated her endorsement of the bonds in suit, and all
of the prior bonds, upon which she acknowledged her liability
as endorser, have been paid, as admitted by opposite counsel.
And while it is true that the right of the complainants, as
principal creditors to be substituted to all of the securities of
Georgia would have been destroyed by a lawful transfer of
the trust property, yet in the case of an unlawful and fraudulent transfer, the same rule could not in reason and justice
hold.
(d) But the complainants do not stand alone upon that
ground. On the contrary, they stand upon the higher and
original ground of an express trust created by the statutory
mortgage, of which Georgia was constituted the trustee, with
the legal title, and a power of seizure and sale, to be executed
for the payment of the principal and interest of the bonds in
suit.
VIl. The court has full j irisdictwn. It has before it all
of the necessary, or even proper parties, for the execution of
the original and still continuing trust, tp wit (1) The legal
title, (2) the legal title coupled and impregnated with its
original trust, (3) the trust property, in the possession and
charge, and subject to the jurisdiction of the court for the
administration of the trust.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE,

after stating the case, delivered the

opimon of the court.
The case of the appellants rests upon two distinct legal propositions. The first one asserts their right to be subrogated
to a mortgage security taken by the State of Georgia, and,
by virtue of such subrogation, to enforce the mortgage against
the property of the railway company The other proposition
is that they are direct mortgage creditors and have a specific
mortgage lien upon the property of the company

CUNN NGHAM v. 'AACO1 & BRUNSW'K RAILROAD. 4-19
Opinion of the Court

A right of subrogation, such as is here claimed by the appellants, does not involve any direct lien in favor of the creditor,
resulting from his position as such. It only exists in consequence of his being, as a creditor, entitled to enjoy certain
rights which are vested in the surety at the time the subrogation is claimed. This principle is fundamental, and its application is fatal to the complainants. As the creditors' right to
subrogation depends on the existence, in the surety, of the
rights to which subrogation is sought, it follows that after the
surety has parted with the thing given him for his protection,
the creditor can have no subrogation to such thing. In the
present case, when the subrogation was claimed, the State had
divested herself of all her rights, under the mortgage of indemnity, by selling the mortgaged premises, and had applied the
proceeds of the sale to the payment of the debt which the
mortgage was given to secure. She had no longer any rights
of her own, therefore no subrogation could be derived through
her. Aside from this consideration, in order to enforce equitable subrogation against a surety, he must be made a party
to the cause. The State of Georgia is not, and cannot be,
without her consent, impleaded. All the foregoing doctrine
was applied and carefully stated in Chamberla.nv St. Paul &
Sioux City Railroad,92 U. S. 299, 306,where, speaking through
:Mr. Justice Field, the court said "Whatever right the plaintiff had to compel the application of the lands received by the
State to the payment of the bonds held by him, it was one
resting in equity only It was not a legal right arising out of
any positive law or any agreement of the parties. It did not
create any lien which attached to and followed the property
It was a right to be, enforced, if at all, only by a court of
chancery against the surety But the State being the surety
here, it could not be enforced at all, and not being a specific
lien upon the property, cannot be enforced' against the State's
grantees. Where property passes to the State, subject to a
specific lien or trust created by law or contract, such li~n or
trust may be enforced by the courts whenever the property
comes under their jurisdiction and control. Thus, if property
held by the government, covered by a mortgage of the origi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

nal owner, should be transferred to an individual, the jurisdiction of the court to enforce the mortgage would attach, as it
existed previous to the acquisition of the government. The
Siren, 7 Wall. 158, 159. But where the property is not
affected by any specific lien or trust in the hands of the State,
her transfer will pass an unencumbered estate."
The appellants must therefore rely for the maintenance of
any rights they may possess upon their second proposition,
which is to the effect that the bonds which they hold were
secured by the statutory mortgage created by the act of 1866,
and that the mortgage rights thus existing were not affected
by the sale made by the State ia 1875, but are yet subsisting,
and may be enforced against the mortgaged property in the
hands of the present defendant. It is obvious that if the statutory mortgage created by the act of 1866 was solely for the
indemnification of the State and not for the security of the
bondholders, the latter, whatever may be their indirect rights
by subrogation, cannot directly avail themselves of the statutory mortgage. Chamberlain v St. Paul & Sioux City Raili.oad, 92 U S. 299, Tennessee Bond Cases, 114 U S. 663. In
order, therefore, to give them the relief which they seek, the
statutory mortgage must be treated as having been given to
secure the holders of the bonds. But if this view be taken,
the clain here asserted is untenable. If there be a mortgage
in favor of complainant's bonds, it must result from the terms
of the act of 1866, but these bonds were not issued under that
act, and owe their existence to the authority conferred by the
act of 1870. This act reserved no mortgage, and the bonds
of relator, having been issued under it, do not purport to be
secured by mortgage. The claim that they are so secured is
deduced from this contention The act of 1870, it is asserted,
purported to be an amendment to the act of 1866, therefore,
the provisions as to mortgage found in the act of 1866 were
incorporated into and became a part of the act of 1870. BetweeA 1866 and 1870, however, the following amendment to
the constitution of Georgia was adopted, and it was in force
when the act of 1870 was passed
"The general assembly shall pass no law making the State

CUNNINGHAM v. MACO1 & BRUNSW'K RAILROAD. 42r
Opinion of the Court.

a stockholder in any corporate company, nor shall the credit
of the State be granted or loaned to aid any company without
a provision that the whole property of the company shall be
bound for the security of the State, prior to any other debt or
lien, except to laborers, nor any company in which there is not
already an equal amount invested by private persons, nor for
any other object than a work of public improvement."
Under these provisions, if we were to construe the act of
1870 as desired, the result would be to make that act clearly
violate the amendment to the constitution just cited, for, if
the statutory mortgage secured the bondholders, then the
bonds, issued under the act of 1866, were necessarily secured
by a first mortgage, and those issued under the act of 1870.
by a second. This conclusion can be avoided only in one or
the other of two ways. First, by contending tha the incorporation of the provisions of the act of 1866 into the act of
1870 made the bonds, issued under the latter act, equal in
rank of mortgage with the bonds issued under the former;
but to admit this contention would make the act of 1870
void, because it would, if thus construed, impair the obligations of the contract made with the holders of the bonds first
issued. Or, second, by contending that, inasmuch as the
mortgage created by the act of 1866 was in favor of the
State and not in favor of the bondholders, the issuance of
the bonds of the second series simply increased the aggregate
amount of the State's liability, and that there was no difference between the two in rank of lien and mortgage, since the
State held both the first and the second series, and the two
were practically issued under one act. But this would be an
assertion that the statutory mortgage created by the act of
1866 was solely for the benefit and indemnification of the
State, and that the holders of the bonds were not directly
interested therein. If this position be assumed, it defeats the
complainants, as we have already seen.
However, it is claimed that even if the State's endorsement
of the bonds, issued under the act of 1870, was in violation of
the constitutional amendment, the only result is to render the
endorsement void, and thus the bonds are left outstanding as

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

valid contracts of the railroad company, secured by the statutory mortgage reserved in the act of 1866. This contradicts
the plain text of that act, since it only purported to reserve
a mortgage in favor of bonds endorsed by the State. And,
besides, if this argument were adopted, it would render efficacious a legislative violation of the constitutional amendment,
since it presupposes that there was power in the general
assembly to allow the mortgage security, which had been
taken by the State solely in order to secure the bonds she had
guaranteed, to be transferred to others as a means of securing
bonds to which her guaranty could not be constitutionally
affixed. In other words, that the State, having a first mortgage security, which she had taken to secure bonds, of which
she was an endorser, could vitiate such security by allowing
others to participate in the benefits thereof, and thus do by
indirection what the constitution forbade her to do directly
Nor does the case of Railroad Companies v Schutte, 103
U S. 118, sustain this argument of the appellants. There the
State of Florida issued her bonds to aid the railroads, securing herself by a first mortgage on the roads, and taking in
exchange bonds of the companies. It was certified on the
state bonds that they were protected by a first mortgage "as
security for the holders thereof." The bonds, thus drawn,
were endorsed by the railroad companies and issued by them.
The obligation of the State was found unconstitutional, but it
was held that, inasmuch as the railroad companies had endorsed the bonds thus drawn, they had guaranteed the existence of the mortgage, and the holders of the bonds were
therefore entitled, as against them, to insist upon the validity
of the mortgage and to assert legal rights by virtue thereof.
In the present case there is no mention of the existence of a
mortgage on the face of the bonds declared on by the complainants, nor is there any statement of such mortgage in the
act of 1870 under which they were issued. The claim here is
merely that a mortgage resulted from the statute passed in
1866, which statute in express terms reserves a mortgage only
for such bonds as are endorsed by the State. The case relied
on involved no question of the existence of a mortgage, but

CUNNINGHAMI v. MACON & BRUNSW'K RAILROAD. 42a
Opinion of the Court.

the point at issue was whether an admittedly existing mortgage could be enforced against the corporations. Here, on the
contrary, the question is, whether the mortgage under the
act of 1866 ever existed quoad the bonds issued under
the act of 1870.
These conclusions are decisive of the cause, but other considerations, which affect the merits of the controversy, are
equally fatal to the appellants. It cannot be doubted that,
even if the bonds issued under the act of 1870 were secured:
by the statutory mortgage reserved by the act of 1866, they
were second in rank, and therefore their holders were junior
mortgage creditors. Nor can it be gainsaid that the statutory
mortgage conferred upon the State a power to sell the mortgaged property This power was exercised in 1875. The
grounds upon which it is asserted that the sale was void
are First, that before the sale it was announced that only
bonds of the issue of 1866 would be received in. payment, and
that at the sale it was declared that such bonds would only
be received at their market value. There is no averment in
the bill that the first mortgage creditors complained of these
requirements, nor does it contain any allegation that the
holders of the second series of bonds, who are now championing the rights of the first mortgage creditors, bid at the sale,
or in any way manifested their willingness to free the property from the first mortgage debt. The rights of the second
mortgage creditors were necessarily subordinate to the paramount rights of the creditors first in rank. The property of
the company had been for nearly two years under seizure,
the default having occurred in 1873. It was the plain duty
of the second mortgage creditors, if they were interested in
preventing the sale and wished to tender their bonds in payment, to bid a sufficient amount to lift the prior encumbrance.
Not only is there no averment that they did this, but the bill
contains an assertion that in the event the mortgage indemnified only the State, then equality of rank existed between the
holders of the second and the holders of the first series of
bonds, and upon this alleged equality the complainants, as
holders of the second series, base their claim to participate

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

ratably in the distribution of the purchase money, and thus
infringe upon the unquestioned rights of the bondholders
under the act of 1866.
The other ground of attack upon the sale was the incapacity
of the State to purchase at her own sale, which it is claimed
resulted from the fact that the statutory mortgage reserved
by the act of 1866 made the State a trustee for the bondholders. Conceding this, the State was both a trustee and
a mortgagee, and she had a direct individual interest in the
property, by reason of her endorsement on the bonds. The
general assembly of the State of Georgia had expressly
authorized the governor to bid in the property, on behalf of
the State, in case there was no bid sufficient to protect the
outstanding obligation which bore the State's endorsement.
Even if this provision be considered inapplicable upon the
ground that the State could not lawfully bid at the sale under
a power conferred upon herself by herself, the complainants'
position would be untenable. It is conceded that the settled
doctrine in Georgia is that the purchase by a trustee is not
absolutely void, but merely voidable at the option of the cestuz
que trust. Worthy v Johnson, 8 Georgia, 236. iLet us suppose, for the sake of argument, that the cestuts que trustent
in this case were the holders of the bonds which were issued
under the act of 1866 and of those which were issued under
the act of 1870. The bill contains an averment that the holders of the first class surrendered their bonds to the State after
her purchase of the property, and that she has discharged her
liability under her endorsement upon their bonds. In retiring
these bonds the State paid off the first mortgage debt, not
only to the extent of her bid, but to nearly twice its amount.
The action of the first mortgage creditors in accepting the
extinguishment by the State of their securities and the mortgage by which they were secured was, in effect, a ratification
of the sale, and established its legal validity so far as they were
concerned.
Under these circumstances, conceding that the second series
of bonds were secured by a second mortgage, their holders
cannot equitably be allowed to avoid the sale without tender-

CUNNhNGH-AM v. MACON & BRUNSW'M RAILROAD. 425.
Opinion of the Court.

ing reimbursement of the amount of the first mortgage. Their
claims were subordinate to those of the holders of the first
series, and they have no recourse until the latter are paid, and
it would be grossly inequitable to allow them to avoid a sale
which has been ratified by those who were primarily interested in the price resulting therefrom without compelling them,
as a prerequisite, to do equity by protecting the first encumbrancers. Collins v Iggs, 14 Wall. 491, Jones on Mortgages,
sec. 1669, Pomeroy's Equity, sec. 1220 et seq. Instead of
doing this, although nearly two years had elapsed between
the sale and the filing of the bill, the complainants assert that
their bonds are, in the contingency last stated, equal in rank
of mortgage lien with those of the holders of the first series,
and hence that they are entitled to an equal participation in
the proceeds of the mortgage property Indeed, in the discussion at bar, the contention was advanced that -the retirement
of the first mortgage bonds, by the State, after her purchase,
extinguished the prior mortgage by which they were secured,
and that, the sale being voidable at the instance of complainants, - an option which their bill asserts, - the second mortgage, which was held by them, has thus become, first. No
offer to pay the amount of the first mortgage was made prior
to the purchase of the property by the defendants, and their
title cannot now be divested, even if such an offer were made.
We think the complainants are not entitled to the relief which
they claim, and that the property passed to the defendant free
from any lien under the statutory mortgage arising from the
act of 1866 or 1870, even if from the latter any such mortgage ever resulted.
Affirm ed.

