OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

GOLDEY v. MORNING NEWS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 55. Argued and submitted December 1, 1894. -Decided

March 11, 1895.

Section 1011 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the act of February 18,
1875, c. 80, providing that there shall be no reversal by this court upon
a writ of error for error in ruling any plea in abatement, other than a
plea to the jurisdiction of the court," does not forbid the review of a
decision, even on a plea in abatement, of any question of the jurisdiction
of the court below to render judgment against the defendant, though
depending on the sufficiency of the service of the writ.
In a personal action brought in a court of a State against a corporation
which neither is incorporated nor does business within the State, nor
has any agent or property therein, service of the summons upon its
president, temporarily within the jurisdiction, cannot be recognized as
valid by the courts of any other government.
A corporation sued in a personal action in a court of a State, within which
it is neither incorporated nor does business, nor has any agent or
property, does not, by appearing specially in that court for the sole
purpose of presenting a petition for the removal of the action into the
Circuit Court of the United States, and by obtaining a removal accordingly
waive the right to object to the jurisdiction of the court for want of
sufficient service of the summons.

THIS was an action for a libel, claiming damages in the sum
of $100,000, brought in the Supreme Court of the State of
New York for the county of Kings, by Catherine Goldey, a
citizen of the State of New York, against The Morning News
of New Haven, a corporation organized and existing under
the laws of the State of Connecticut, and carrying on business
in that State only, and having no place of business, officer,
agent or property in the State of New York.
The action was commenced January 4, 1890, by personal
service of the summons in the city and State of New York
upon the president of the corporation, temporarily there, but
a citizen and resident of the State of Connecticut, and on
January 24, 1890, upon the petition of the defendant, appear-

GOLDEY v. MORNING NEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

ing by its attorney specially and for the sole and single purpose of presenting the petition for removal, was removed into
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern. District
of New York, because the parties were citizens of different
States, and the time within which the defendant was required
by the laws of the State of New York to answer or plead to
the complaint had not expired.
In the Circuit Court of the United States, the defendant,
on February 5, 1890, appearing by its attorney specially for
the purpose of applying for an order setting aside the summons
and the service thereof, filed a motion, supported by affidavits
of its president and of its attorney to the facts above stated,
to set aside the summons and the service thereof, upon the
ground "that the said defendant, being a corporation organized
under the laws of the State of Connecticut, where it solely
carries on its business, and transacting no business within the
State of New York, nor having any agent clothed with
authority to represent it m the State of New York, cannot
legally be made a defendant in an action by a service upon
one of its officers while temporarily in said State of New
York." Thereupon, that court, after hearing the parties on a
rule to show cause why the motion should not be granted,
"ordered that the service of the summons herein be, and the
same is hereby, set aside and the same declared to be null
and void and of no effect, and the defendant is hereby relieved
from appearing to plead in answer to the complaint or otherwise herein." 42 Fed. Rep. 112. The plaintiff sued out this
writ of error.
MXr Afirabeau I. Towns, for plaintiff in error, submitted on
his brief.
MY Heny B. B. Staver for defendant is error.
MR. JusTicE GR.Y, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This writ of error presents the question whether, m a personal action against a corporation which neither is mcorpo-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

rated nor does business within the State, nor has any agent or
property therein, service of the summons upon its president,
temporarily within the jurisdiction, is sufficient service upon
the corporation.
The defendant in error has interposed a preliminary objection that the judgment of the Circuit Court upon this question
cannot be reviewed, because of the provision of the statutes,
that there shall be no reversal in this court upon a writ of
error "for error in ruling any plea in abatement, other than a
plea to the jurisdiction of the court." Rev Stat. ยง 1011, as
amended by Act of February 18, 1875, c. 80, 18 Stat. 318.
But that provision, which has been part of the judiciary acts
of the United States from the beginning, has never been, and
in our opinion should not be, construed as forbidding the
review of a decision, even on a plea in abatement, of any
question of the jurisdiction of the court below to render
judgment against the defendant, though depending on the
sufficiency of the service of the writ. Act of September 24,
1789, c. 20, ยง 22, 1 Stat. 85, Pollard v Dwtght, 4 Cranch,
421, Hlarkness v Hyde, 98 U S. 476, Mexican Central
Railway v P2nkney, 149 U S. 194.
Upon the question of the validity of such a service as was
made in this case, there has been a difference of opinion between the courts of the State of New York and the Circuit
Courts of the United States. Such a service has been held
valid by the Court of Appeals of New York. Hfiller v Burlington & Missourz Railroad,70 N. Y 223, Pope v Terre
Haute Co., 87 N. Y 137. It has been held invalid by the
Circuit Courts of the United States, held within the State of
New York, Good tope Co. v Railway Barb Fencing Co.,
23 Blatchford, 43, Goldey v Mifornzng JVews, 42 Fed. IRep. 112,
Clews v Woodstock Co., 44 Fed. Rep. 31, Bentlif v London
& Colontal Corporaton,44 Fed. Rep. 667, American Wooden,
Ware Co. v Stem, 63 Fed. Rep. 676, as well as in other circuits. .Elgqn Co. v Atchsson &c. Railway, 24 Fed. Rep. 866,
United States v. American Bell Tel. Co., 29 Fed. Rep. 17,
Carpenterv Westinghouse Co., 32 Fed. Rep. 434, St. Louts Co.
v ConsolidatedBarb Wire Co., 32 Fed. Rep. 802, Rezfsnsder

GOLDEY v. MORNING NEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

v Amerzoan Publishung Co., 45 Fed. Rep. 433, Fidelity Co.
v Mobile Railway, 53 Fed. Rep. 850. It becomes necessary,
therefore, to consider the question upon principle, and in the
light of the previous decisions of this court.
It is an elementary principle of jurisprudence, that a court
of justice cannot acquire jurisdiction over the person of one
who has no residence within its territorial jurisdiction, except
by actual service of notice within the jurisdiction upon him or
upon some one authorized to accept service in his behalf, or
by his waiver, by general appearance or otherwise, of the
want of due service. Whatever effect a constructive service
may be allowed in the courts of the same government, it
cannot be recognized as valid by the courts of any other
government. D'A,'y v Ketchum, 11 How 165, .Enowles
v Gaslight Co., 19 Wall. 58, Hall v Lannsng, 91 U S. 160,
.Pennoyerv ifef, 95 U. S. 714, York v Texas, 137 D "S. 15,
Wilson v eligman, 144 U S. 41.
For example, under the provisions of the Constitution of
the United States and of the acts of Congress, by which
judgments of the courts of one State are to be given full faith
and credit m the courts of another State, or of the United
States, such a judgment is not entitled to any force or effect,
unless the defendant was duly served with notice of the action
m which the judgment was rendered, or waived the want of
such notice. Constitution, art. 4, see. 1, Acts of May 26,
1790, c. 11, 1 Stat. 122, and March 27, 1804, c. 56, 2 Stat. 299,
Rev Stat. ยง 905,
nowles v Gaslight Co., and Pennoyer v.
_Nef, above cited.
If a judgment is rendered in one State against two partners
jointly, after serving notice upon one of them only, under a
statute of the State providing that such service shall be sufficient to authorize a judgment against both, yet the judgment
is of no force or effect in a court of another State, or in a
court of the United States, against the partner who was not
served with process. D'Arcy v Iletchum, and Hall v Lannmg, above cited.
So a judgment rendered in a court of one State, against a
corporation neither incorporated nor doing business within

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the State, must be regarded as of no validity in the courts of
another State, or of the United States, unless service of process was made in the first State upon an agent appointed to
act there for the corporation, and not merely upon an officer
or agent residing m another State, and only casually within
the State, and not charged with any business of the corporation there. Lafayette Is. Co. v French, 18 How 404,
St. Clam v Cox, 106 U S. 350, 357, 359, Fitzgerald Co. v
Fitzgerald, 137 U S. 98, 106, _Memwan Central Railway v
P'inkney, 149 U S. 194, In re flohorst, 150 U S. 653, 663.
The principle which governs the effect of judgments of one
State in the courts of another State is equally applicable in the
Circuit Courts of the United States, although sitting in the
State in which the judgment was rendered. In either case,
the court the service of whose process is in question, and the
court in which the effect of that service is to be determined,
derive their jurisdiction and authority from different governments. Pennoyer v Neff, 95 U S. 714, 732, 733.
For the same reason, service of mesne process from a court
of a State, not made upon the defendant or his authorized
agent within the State, although there made in some other
manner recognized as valid by its legislative acts and judicial
decisions, can be allowed no validity in the Circuit Court of
the United States after the removal of the case into that
court, pursuant to the acts of Congress, unless the defendant
can be held, by virtue of a general appearance or otherwise,
to have waived the defect in the service, and to have submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the court.
It was contended, in behalf of the plaintiff, that the defendant, by filing in the state court a petition for the removal
of the case into the Circuit Court of the United States, had
treated the case as actually and legally pending in the court
of the State, and had waived all defects in the service of
the summons. This position is supported by a decision of
Mr. Justice Curtis in Sayles v _Horthwestern Ins. Co., 2 Curtis,
212, by a dictum of Chief Justice Chase in Bushnell v
KEennedy, 9 Wall. 387, 393, by opinions of Judge Coxe in
Edwards v Connectwut Ins. Co., 20 Fed. Rep. 452, and Judge

GOLDEY v. MORNING NEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

Sage in Tallman v Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,45 Fed. IRep.
156, and by the judgment of the Court of Appeals of New
York in Farmerv. National Life Association, 138 N. Y 265.
But the ground of the decision in Bushnell v Biennedy
was, in accordance with earlier and later decisions, that the
restriction, in former judiciary acts, upon the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court over a suit originally brought by an assignee,
which his assignor could not have brought in that court, did
not apply to its jurisdiction by removal of an action originally brought in a state court. Green v Custard, 23 How
484:, Lexzngton v. Butler, 14. Wall. 282, Claftin v Commonwealth Ins. Co., 110 U S.81, DelawareCounty v. Diebold Co.,
133 U. S. 473. And the theory that a defendant, by filing
in the state court a petition for removal into the Circuit
Court of the United States, necessarily waives the right to,
insist that for any reason the state court had not acquired
jurisdiction of his person, is inconsistent with the terms, as
well as with the spirit, of the existing act of Congress regulating removals from a court of a State into the Circuit
Court of the United States.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States
depends upon the acts passed by Congress pursuant to the
power conferred upon it by the Constitution of the United
States, and cannot be enlarged or abridged by any statute
of a State. The legislature or the judiciary of a State can
neither defeat the right given by a constitutional act of
Congress to remove a case from a court of the State into
the Circuit Court of the United States, nor limit the effect
of such removal. Gordon v Tongest, 16 Pet. 97, Insurance
Co. v. Norse, 20 Wall. 445, Barron v Burnside, 121 U. S.
186, Southern Pacific Co. v Denton, 146 U. S.202, 207-209.
As was said by this court in Gordon v Longest, "One great
object in-the establishment of the courts of the United States
and regulating their jurisdiction was to have a tribunal in
each State, presumed to be free from local influence, and ta
which all who were non-residents or aliens might resort for
legal redress." 16 Pet. 104.
The act of Congress, by which the practice, pleadings, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

forms and modes of proceeding, in actions at law in the Circuit
Court of the United States, are required to conform, as near
as may be, to those existing at the time in the courts of the
State within which it is helq, applies only to cases of which
the court has jurisdiction according to the Constitution and
laws of the United States. Rev Stat. ยง 914, Southern Pam~flc
Co. v Denton, above cited, lexwan Central Railway Co. v
Psnkney, 149 U S. 194.
By the act of Congress, under which the present action was
removed by the defendant into the Circuit Court of the
United States, any action at law, brought in a court of a State
between citizens of different States, in which the matter in
dispute exceeds the sum or value of $2000, may be removed
into the Circuit Court of the United States by the defendant,
being a non-resident of that State, by filing a petition and
bond in the state court "at the time, or at any time before,
the defendant is required by the laws of the State, or the
rule of the state court in which such suit is brought, to answer
or plead to the declaration or complaint of the plaintiff," and
it shall then be the duty of the state court to proceed no
further in the suit, and, upon the entry of a copy of the
record in the Circuit Court of the United States, "the cause
shall then proceed in the same manner as if it had been originally commenced in said circuit court." Act of August 13,
1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 434, 435.
It has been held by this court, upon full consideration, that
the provision of this act, that the petition for removal shall be
filed in the state court at or before the time when the defendant is required by the local law or rule of court "to answer or
plead to the declaration or complaint," requires the petition
to be there filed at or before the time when the defendant is
so required to file any kind of plea or answer, "whether in
matter of law, by demurrer, or in matter of fact, either by
dilatory plea to the jurisdiction of the court or in suspension
or abatement of the particular suit, or by plea in bar of the
whole right of action," because, as the court said, "Construing
the provision now in question, having regard to the natural
meaning of its language, and to the history of the legislation

GOLDEY v. MORNING NEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

upon this subject, the only reasonable inference is that Congress contemplated that the petition for removal should be
filed in the state court as soon as the defendant was required
to make any defence whatever in that court, so that, if the
case should be removed, the validity of any and all of his
defences should be.tried and determined in the Circuit Court
of the United States." .Martin v Baltimore & Oko Railroad,
151 U. S. 673, 686, 687.
As the defendant's right of removal into the Circuit Court
of the United States can only be exercised by filing the petition for removal in the state court before or at the time when
he is required to plead in that court to the jurisdiction or in
abatement, it necessarily follows that, whether the petition
for removal and such a plea are filed together at that time
in the state court, or the petition for removal is filed before
that time in the state court and the plea is seasonably filed in
the Circuit Court of the United States after the removal, the
plea to the jurisdiction or in abatement can only be tried and
determined in the Circuit Court of the United States.
Although the suit must be actually pending in the state
court before it can be removed, its removal into the Circuit
Court of the United States does not admit that it was rightfully pending in the state court, or that the defendant could
have been compelled to answer therein, but enables the
defendant to avail himself, in the Circuit Court of the United
States, of any and every defence, duly and seasonably reserved
and pleaded, to the action, "in the same manner as if it had
been originally commenced in said circuit court."
How far a petition for removal, in general terms, without
specifying and restricting the purpose of the defendant's
appearance in the state court, might be considered, like a
general appearance, as a waiver of any objection to the jurisdiction of the court over the person of the defendant, need
not be considered, because, m the petition filed in the state
court for the removal of this action into the Circuit Court of
the United States, it was expressed that the defendant appeared specially and for the sole and single purpose of presenting the petition for removal. This was strictly a special

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

appearance for this purpose only, and, whether the attempt to
remove should be successful or unsuccessful, could not be
treated as submitting the defendant to the jurisdiction of the
state court for any other purpose. Likewise, in the motion
filed by the defendant in the Circuit Court of the United
States, immediately after the action had .been removed into
that court, for an order setting aside the summons and the
service thereof, it was expressed that the defendant appeared
by its attorney specially for the purpose of applying for this
order. Irregularity in a proceeding by which jurisdiction is
to be obtained is in no case waived by a special appearance of
the defendant for the purpose of calling the attention of the
court to such irregularity Harkness v Hlfyde, 98 U. S. 476,
Southern Pacqfte Co. v Denton, 146 U S. 202, AMexzean Central Railway v Pznkney, 149 U S. 194.
The necessary conclusion appears to this court to be that
the defendant's right to object to the insufficiency of the
service of the summons was not waived by filing the petition
for removal in the guarded form in which it was drawn up,
and by obtaining a removal accordingly And it is gratifying to know that this conclusion is in accord with the general
current of decision in the Circuit Courts of the United States.
Parrott v Alabama Ins. Co., 5 Fed. Rep. 391, Blair v Turtle, 1 McCrary, 372, Atc/ison v .orrms, 11 Bissell, 191,
Small v Afontgomery, 5 -McCrary, 440, explaining Sweeney v
Coffln, 1 Dillon, 73, 76, Hendrzckson, v Ch cago &e. Railway, 22 Fed. Rep. 569, Elgn Co. v Atchison &c. Railway,
24: Fed. Rep. 866, Eaufman v Kennedy, 25 Fed. Rep. 785,
_Miner v _Markham , 28 Fed. Rep. 387, Perkzns v Hendryx,
40 Fed. Rep. 657, Clews v Toodstock Co., 44 Fed. Rep. 31,
Bentlif v London & Colonzal Corporatson,44 Fed. Rep. 667,
Rezfnider v Amercan Publishing Co., 45 Fed. Rep. 433,
Forrestv Union Paczfc Railroad,47 Fed. Rep. 1, O'Donnell
v AtcIson &c. Railroad, 49 Fed. Rep. 689, Ahlhauser v
Butler, 50 Fed. Rep. 705 McGillin v Claylin, 52 Fed. Rep.
657.
Judgment affrmed.

