LINDSAY v. SHREVEPORT BANK.
Statement of the Case.

property of an insolvent railroad company, the court whose
jurisdiction first attached was the proper one in which the litigation should proceed. Such a decision would seem to comport with well-settled and orderly principles of procedure.
At all events, we are unable to descry, in the record before
us, any denial by the Supreme Court of Missouri of any rights
of the plaintiff in error under the Constitution or laws of the
United States, and the writ of error is accordingly
Dzsmssed.
LINDSAY v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF
SHREVEPORT.
APPEAL FROM AND ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 132. Argued and submitted December 19, 1394. -Decided

March 4,1895.

A national bank commenced an action in a Circuit Court of the United
States to have an assessment of the shares of its capital stock made by
state officers declared invalid. The defendants demurred upon the
ground that the remedy was in equity. The demurrer was overruled,
the case went to trial before a jury, and the plaintiff obtained judgment.
Held, That, although the proceedings might have been m accordance with
practice in the courts of the State, the plaintiff's remedy was in equity
according to praptice in the Federal courts, and that the demurrer
should have been sustained.

THIS was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Louisiana by the
First National.Bank of Shreveport, a corporation created under
the laws of the United States, against Robert H. Lindsay,
assessor of the parish of Caddo, the police jury of said parish
of Caddo, and the city of Shreveport, Louisiana. The declaration or petition sets forth that the capital stock of said bank
consists of 2000 shares of one hundred dollars each, held
and owned by about twenty persons, who are named in the
petition, that Robert H. Lindsay, as assessor of the parish of
Caddo, had assessed the shares of stock of said corporation
against the said stockholders on the tax roll of the current

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

year 1889 at the rate of eighty dollars per share, aggregating
the sum of $160,000, that such assessment was unlawful,
unjust, and excessive, and that the bank and said stockholders,
in due time and form, applied to the police jury of said
parish, sitting as a board of reviewers, under the provisions of
the revenue laws of said State, for the cancellation of said
assessment, or to have the same corrected, but that said
board of reviewers failed and refused to cancel or correct
such assessment, which accordingly appeared on the tax roll
for the year 1889 of said parish, that under the existing law's,
on all property subject to taxation the State levies a tax of
six mills on the dollar of valuation, that the parish of Caddo,
through its police jury, levies a tax of eight mills on the
dollar of valuation, and the city of Shreveport levies a tax of
twenty-three and three-fourths mills on the dollar of valuation,
making a total tax of thirty-seven and three-fourths mills on
the dollar of valuation, that under said illegal assessment
the State of Louisiana, the parish of Caddo, and the city of
Shreveport are about to collect such taxes, aggregating six
thousand and forty dollars, from the petitioner "unless prevented by the decree of this honorable court," that the State
of Louisiana has no power or right to tax in any manner the
capital stock of any national bank, except so far as such
power and right have been granted by the Congress of the
United States, that under existing laws of the United States,
the State may determine and direct the manner of taxing all
shares of national banks having their domicil in the State,
provided such taxation shall not be at a greater rate than is
assessed upon the moneyed capital in the hands of individual
citizens of the State, and that the true intent and meaning of
such proviso is that the tax assessed on the shares of national
banks shall be equal and uniform with the tax assessed and
levied on other property in said State and on the individual
owners thereof, that by the statute of the United States
authorizing the State to tax, under certain limitations, shares
of national banks, by the "law of the land," and by the constitution and laws of the State of Louisiana, it is expressly provided that taxation shall be equal and uniform, that the

LINDSAY v. SHREVEPORT BANK.
Statement of the Case.

assessment so as aforesaid made violates the principle of
equality and uniformity in this, that the said Lindsay,
assessor, has assessed said shares of stock at a much higher
value proportionately than that at which he assessed the property of other citizens subject to taxation, the assessment of
said shares being twice as high as that placed on- other
property, that the said assessor Lindsay has wilfully failed
and neglected to assess and place on said tax roll moneys in
the possession of citizens of the State, and moneys by such
citizens loaned out, bonds, judgments, notes, accounts, and
other verdicts held by and due to citizens of the State, and
property of other kinds owned by citzens of the State and by
persons not citizens of the State, all of which was and is
subject to taxation, and should have been assessed and placed
on said tax roll, and that the value of said property so omitted
from said tax roll exceeded, at the time when said assessment
should have been made, the sum of one million dollars, that
the acts of the said assessor Lindsay, relating to said tax roll,
destroy the uniformity of the rule fixed by the constitution
and laws of the State, and are subversive of the act of Congress
allowing shares in national banks to be taxed, which act intended to protect the owners of such shares from greater
burthens than are imposed on other moneyed capital in the
State where such banks are located, that in arriving at the
assessment of said shares in said bank the said assessor Lindsay,
and the said police jury, sitting as a board of reviewers, took
the capital stock of said bank, viz., $200,000, and added
thereto $40,000, the earnings of the bank, which did not and
does not in any manner constitute any portion of the capital
stock of said bank, and which the bank held and now holds in
United States bonds, by law exempted from taxation, that
section 29 of act N~o. 85 of the general assembly of Louisiana,
session 1888, the existing revenue act of said State, provides
that the actual shares of stock of every national bank shall be
assessed to the stockholders, and the taxes so assessed shall be
paid by the bank, and that all property owned by the bank
taxable under section 1 of said act shall be assessed directly to
the bank, and thepro rata share of such direct taxes and ol all

OCTOBER TERMI, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

exempt property proportioned to each share of capital stock
shall be deducted from the amount of taxes assessed to that
share under said section 29, that the said earnings, having
been invested in property exempted from taxation, the said
assessor and the said police jury should have deducted the same
proportionately from the amount of taxes assessed to each
share in said bank, that by the provisions of the twentyninth section of said act No. 85 of the general assembly of
Louisiana, session of 1888, the said bank is required to pay
the taxes assessed to its stockholders, that the corporation
known as the First National Bank of Shreveport is a juridical person, separate and distinct from each and every person holding stock therein, and is not and cannot be bound
to discharge the obligations of such other persons, and that
said provisions of said section of said act violate the Constitution of the United States, etc., that this is a case arising
under the Constitution and laws of the United States, and
presents Federal questions, and that this honorable court has
jurisdiction to hear and determine the same, that therefore
the petitioner prays that the said Lindsay, assessor, said police
jury of Caddo parish, and the city of Shreveport be cited to
answer hereto, that after all legal notices and delays there
be judgment in favor of petitioner declaring said assessment
null and void, and prohibiting the collection of any tax from
petitioner or its stockholders, or in the event the court should
not hold said assessment absolutely void, petitioner prays for
a judgment reducing said assessment, so as to make it equal
and uniform with other assessments, and striking therefrom
the amount of property held by the bank exempted from
taxation, and prays for all orders and decrees necessary in
the premises for costs, and for general relief.
The defendants appeared and filed the following exception
"Now come defendants in above-entitled suit and except
to plaintiff's suit, which is in the law side of the court, on the
ground and for the reason that the allegations of plaintiff's bill or petition show that his remedy is not by an action
at law, but by injunction and bill in equity, and this court is
without jurisdiction to entertain this suit as an action at law

LINDSAY v. SHREVEPORT BANK.
Statement of the Case.

Whereupon defendants pray that this exception be sustained
and plaintiff's suit be dismissed with costs."
After argument this exception was overruled, and thereupon the plaintiff filed an amended or supplemental petition averring, that the bank holds the amount of one hundred
and eighty-three thousand dollars in bonds of the United
States, constituting a portion of its capital, and so held the
same at the time of the unequal and illegal assessment set
forth in the original petition, and that in assessing said capital
stock in which said amount of bonds was included there was
and is an unjust discrimination against said bank and its stockholders, and the shares of the stockholders in said company
are assessed at a greater rate than was assessed upon moneyed
capital in the bonds of the individual citizens of the State,
that United States bonds in the hands of individual citizens
of the State were not and are not assessed or taxed, that the
statute of the State of Louisiana, under which the assessment
was made, discriminates unjustly against petitioner and its
stockholders, and violates the principles of equality and uniformity in taxation by exempting such United States bonds
from taxation when held by individual citizens of the State
and taxes the same when held by the bank and its stockholders, and that said assessment and the statute under
which it was made are null and void.
Subsequently the defendants filed the following exception
to the amended petition
"Now come defendants in the above-entitled suit and
except to the amended and supplemental petition filed by the
plaintiff, on the ground and for the reason that the allegations therein contained disclose no cause of action against
these defendants, wherefore they pray that this exception be
sustained, and that said petition be dismissed at plaintiff's
Costs."
On motion and after argument this exception was overruled, and the defendants filed an answer denying generally
the allegations of the original and amended petitions, admitting that the shares of stock of plaintiff's bank were assessed
m the assessment roll of 1889 to the respective stockholders

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

named in the petition at a valuation of eighty dollars on each
share of the face value of one hundred dollars, and averring
that said assessment was at the rate of two-thirds of the
actual cash value of such shares, which were, at the rate of
said assessment, worth in the market the sum of one hundred
and twenty dollars in cash per share, if not more, denying
that the assessor or the board of reviewers in and for the
parish of Caddo have wilfully or intentionally omitted any
property from assessment or taxation for the year 1889, and
stating that if there was "surveyed capital in the hands of
individuals" in said parish not assessed for the year 1889, the
same belonged largely to the shareholders of plaintiff's bank,
and was not returned by them for assessment according to
law, denying that defendants have discriminated or attempted
to discriminate in any manner against the shareholders of
plaintiff's bank, and that said bank or its stockholders have
any just cause of complaint.
The record further declares that on March 4, 1891, the case
came on to be heard, that a jury was empanelled and sworn
to try the same, and that, after evidence was put in, the jury
rendered the following verdict
"We, the jury, find the assessable value of each share of
stock in the plaintiff's bank is twenty-three dollars and a
half, after deducting from the assessment in controversy the
amount of United States and state bonds held by the bank
as portion of its capital stock."
On March 14, 1891, there was entered a judgment in the
following terms
"In this case, by reason of the law and the evidence, and
the verdict of the jury being in favor of the plaintiff, the
First National Bank of Shreveport, it is ordered, adjudged,
and decreed that there be judgment in favor of said bank
against the State of Louisiana reducing the assessment on
each share of the capital stock of said bank, made against its
several stockholders, as set forth in petition for the year 1889,
from eighty dollars a share to twenty-three -1L0- dollars a
share, said amount of twenty-three -0e dollars being (according to the rate of assessing all property at two-thirds of its

LINDSAY v. SHREVEPORT BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

cash value adopted by and governing the assessing officers of
the parish of Caddo, for and during the year 1889, in making
the assessment of said year) equal to two-thirds of the amount
found by the jury to be the full assessable value of each
share and reducing the aggregate assessment of the entire
2000 shares of the capital stock of said bank on the assessment roll or tax roll of 1889 from one hundred and sixty
thousand to forty-seven thousand dollars, and it is further
ordered and decreed that there be judgment to the same
effect against the parish of Caddo and against the police jury
of said parish, and it is further ordered and decreed that
there be judgment to the same effect in favor of said bank
and against the city of Shreveport, and it is further ordered
and decreed that there be judgment against the defendant,
R. H. Lindsay, to the same effect, and it is further ordered
and decreed that plaintiffs have and recover from the defendants = solido costs, to be taxed."
.Afr William Wirt Howe for -plaintiffs in error and appellants.
-Hr A. H. Leonard for defendant in error and appellee.
MR. JUSTiCE SHIiAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This was a proceeding instituted in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Louisiana by the
First National Bank of Shreveport, to have declared invalid
an assessment of the shares of its capital stock, made by the
assessing officers of the State of Louisiana for the parish of
Caddo, in the year 1889.
It is provided by the twenty-seventh section of the act of
1886 of the State of Louisiana that "all taxpayers shall have
the right of testing the correctness of their assessments before
the courts of justice in any procedure which the constitution
and laws may permit," and, by the thirty-sixth section of
the act of 1888, that "all suits relating to taxes and licenses
shall be preference suits in all courts where pending, and shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

be tried without a jury as speedily as possible, and in chambers
if court is not in session."
The bank filed a declaration or petition on the law side of
the court, alleging that the assessment in question was unjust
and unequal, and in disregard of the constitution and laws of
the State of Louisiana and of the statute of the United States
authorizing the State to tax, under certain limitations, shares,
of the capital stock in national banks, and asking that there
be judgment in favor of the petitioner declaring said assessment null and void, and prohibiting the collection of any tax
from petitioner or its stockholders, or, in the event the court
should not hold said assessment absolutely null, petitioner
prayed for a judgment reducing said assessment so as to maks
it equal and uniform with other assessments and striking therefrom the amount of property held by the bank exempted from
taxation, and for general relief.
The defendants appeared, and to this petition filed what is
styled an "exception," equivalent to a demurrer, alleging that
the suit was an action at law, but that the allegations of plaintiff's petition disclosed that the remedy was not by an action
at law, but by injunction and bill in equity, and that the court
was without jurisdiction to entertain the suit as an action at
law, and therefore prayed that this exception be sustained and
plaintiff's suit be dismissed with costs.
This exception was overruled, and, after other proceedings
which it is not necessary here to notice, the case was put at
issue by an answer traversing the allegations of the petition,
a jury was sworn, evidence was adduced by both parties,
the judge instructed the jury, a verdict was rendered, and a
judgment, in pursuance of *the allegations of the petition and
of the findings of the verdict, was entered in favor of the
bank.
It may be presumed that these proceedings were in due
conformity with the practice in the courts of the State, in
which no distinction is made between the legal and equitable
side. But it is quite evident, from the nature and history of
the case, as disclosed by the record, that the case was one in
equity, and which, in the Circuit Court of the United States,

LINDSAY v. SHREVEPORT BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

ought to have been prosecuted in regular chancery form, as
prescribed by the rules in equity
The suit was not brought to recover excessive taxes that
had been paid under protest, nor for damages, nor to recover
specific property, real or personal. Its object was to cancel
or modify an assessment made by official persons. The relief
prayed for was in the nature of a decree enjoining the collection of taxes. The verdict did not call for the payment of
damages, or the surrender of the possession of land or chattels,
but consisted of a finding that the assessment complained of
should be reduced, in manner as prayed for in one.part of the
petition. The judgment was essentially a decree modifying
the assessment and enjoining the officers from collecting the
taxes as imposed.
The case is thus brought within the rule, which this court
has so often had occasion to lay down, that the remedies in
the courts of the United States are, at common law or in
equity, not according to the practice of state courts, but according to the principles of common law and equity, as distmguished and defined in that country from which we derive our
knowledge of these principles, and that although the forms of
proceedings and practice in the state courts shall have been
adopted in the Circuit Courts of the United States, yet the
adoption of the state practice must not be understood as confounding the principles of law and equity, nor as authorizing
legal and equitable claims to be blended together in one suit.
Bennett v Butterworth, 11 IHow 669, 674, Thompson v
Railroad CoTanes, 6 Wall. 134, Jr'oderzik will cane, 21
Wall. 503, 520.
It is true that the cases in which such strictures have been
expressed have been usually those in which resort has been
had to equitable forms of relief instead of legal remedies, and
when defendants have thus been deprived of the constitutional
right of trial by jury, but, so long as we attach importance to
regular forms of procedure, we cannot sustain so plain an attempt as is here presented to substitute the machinery of a
court of law, in which the facts are found by the jury and the
law prescribed by the judge for the usual and legitimate prac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

tice of a court of chancery How inadequate and incongruous
the legal remedy is in a case lille the present is shown by the
so-called judgment. It does not adjudge a sum of money as
due by the defendants to the plaintiff whose payment could
be enforced by appropriate writs of execution, but it awards a
judgment in favor of the plaintiff and against the defendants
by decreeing a reduction or abatement of the legal assessments, there existing no legal writ by which the defendants
can be compelled to respect or obey the decree.
It is, therefore, clear that the court below should have sustained the defendants' demurrer or exception, and dismissed
the suit.
This view of the case takes from our cognizance the several
errors assigned to the admission and rejection of evidence and
to the charge of the court, nor are we called upon, with the
record in its present shape, to decide whether questions were
really presented which gave the Circuit Court of the United
States jurisdiction, whether at law or in equity, at the suit
of a national bank organized and doing business in the district
in which the suit was begun.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the cause
remanded wtdh directons to sustain the exceptson and
dismizss the suit.

CARR v. FIFE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 215.

Submitted January 80, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 1895.

It is too late to urge in this court stipulations between parties not brought

to the attention of the court below.
The value of the matter in dispute, if not stated in the record, may, for the

purpose of jurisdiction, be shown by affidavits.
The fact that a Circuit Judge, prior to his appointment, had been counsel

for one of the parties in matters not connected with the case on trial, does
not disqualify him from trying the cause.

