SALTONSTALL v. WIEBUSCH.
Statement of the Case.

:arisng from one being transported by water and the other by
land. There is a difference arising between water and land
.carriage, arising from the nature of the two modes, but not
-one created by legislation, direct or indirect, or by any efforts
of the state legislature to .give or recognize a discrimination
m the case of either.
Judgment affirmed.
SALTO1NSTALL v. WIEBUSCH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 150. Argued January 15, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 195.

-Carpenters' pincers, scythes, and grass-hooks, made of forged steel, imported
into the United States in March, 1889, were dutiable under the last clause
of Schedule C in the act of March 3, 1883, c. 21, 22 Stat. 488, 500, as " manufactures, articles or wares, not specially enumerated or provided for in
this act, composed wholly or in part of iron, steel, or any other metal.

Tins was an action by a corporation known as Wiebusch &
"Hilger, Limited, against the collector of the port of Boston,
to recover an alleged excess of duty imposed upon a certain
-consignment of carpenters' pincers, scythes, and grass-hooks,
-imported from Antwerp in March, 1889.
The collector exacted upon this importation a duty of
-45 per cent under the last clause of schedule C of the tariff
-act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 488, 500, which provides
for "manufactures, articles, or wares, not specially enumerated
-or provided for in this act, composed wholly or in part of
iron, steel,
or any other metal, and whether wholly
-or partly manufactured, forty-five per centum ad valorem."
Plaintiff protested against this classification, and in due
time brought suit, contending that the articles were dutiable
at 22- cents per pound, under a provision of the same schedule,
for "forgings of iron and steel, or forged iron, of whatever
shape, or in whatever stage of manufacture, not specially
-enumerated or provided for in this act."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon trial before a jury, the court directed a verdict for
the plaintiff, holding the classification of the collector to have
been incorrect, and the defendant sued out this writ of error.
Mr Asststant Attorney General Whi'tney for plaintiff in
error.
_Mr Franos lynde Stetson for defendant in error. _Mr
(Jharles P Searle, .21r Albert Comstock, and Mir Evern
Brown were on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This case raises the single question whether the pincers,
grass-hooks, and scythes, which constituted this importation,
should have been classified as manufactures of metal, or forgings of iron or steel. All the articles were made of forged
steel.
There was no evidence in this case that the word "forgings" was used in any commercial or technical sense among
manufacturers, and, in the absence of such evidence, we are
bound to presume that it was used in its ordinary and commonly accepted sense of metal shaped by heating and hammering. Swan v Arthur, 103 U S. 597, M11addocke v Iliagone,
152 U S. 368. Of this use of words the court takes judicial
notice. _N v Hedden, 149 U. S. 304.
The pincers in question are made of two flat pieces of iron
about eight inches long, which are put into the fire, so that
one end of each piece is heated. They are then taken out,
split at the heated end, and a small piece of steel inserted and
welded in to form the bite. They are again heated, the jaws
shaped, and a hole punched in each jaw for the reception of
the rivet. They are again heated and rehammered to make
the shanks round and shape the knob at each end. While
cold they are fastened together by a rivet, which is itself
hammered out of a rod, the rivet being heated and clinched
after it is inserted. The jaws are brought to a point by a

SALTONSTALL v. WIEBUSCH.
Opinion of the Court.

rough file, and are then rubbed, and the whole article polished
with an emery wheel. The pincers are then ready for use.
The non-forging process bears to the forging process the proportion of 3 to 4 per cent.
The scythes and grass-hooks are made out of fiat pieces of
metal, which are shaped by forging, and are tempered and
again heated to give them the blue color of steel. After this
is done they are sharpened upon a grindstone and are then in
condition to receive a wooden handle for use. They were not
provided with'handles at the time they were imported, owing
to the high price of wood in Europe.
From the separate enumeration of "forgings of iron and
steel" and "forged iron, of whatever shape, or in whatever
stage of manufacture," it would seem that Congress intended
to distinguish between the two, and to apply the term
"forgings," though perhaps not exclusively, to such articles
as are completed by the action of the hammer. Hence, we
are not prepared to accept the theory of the government in
this case that the articles in this paragraph are confined to
such as are incomplete, or in process of manufacture, as there
may be many articles which would naturally fall within the
designation of "forgings" which are finished and ready for use
-such,
for example, as ornamental iron work, wrought iron
railings, and grilles, none of which are subjected to any further
process of manufacture. Tns view is strengthened to a certain extent by the separate enumeration in the same schedule
of "anvils, anchors or parts thereof, mill irons and mill cranks,
of wrought irons and wrought iron for ships, and forgings of
iron and steel, for vessels, steam engines, and locomotives, or
parts thereof, weighing each twenty-five pounds or more, two
cents per pound." Apparently all of these fall within the
same category of forgings, and apply to completed articles.
But we do not understand the term "forgings" to be
applicable to articles which receive treatment of a different
kind than hammering before they are complete, such, for
example, as grinding, tempering, or polishing, although the
witnesses agreed that welding and punching are properly
forging processes. It may well be doubted, too, whether the

OCTOBER TERVI, 1894.
Syllabus.

word be applicable to such small articles as tools of trade or
t he ordinary implements of husbandry The fact that the
further process, which the articles specified in this case underwent, represented but three or four per cent of the total labor
.expended upon them, is by no means decisive, when it is a question of classification, since the very object of Congress may
,have been to protect the additional labor. The lines between
,different articles enumerated in the tariff law are sometimes
very nicely drawn, and a trifling amount of labor is often
:sufficient to change the nature of the article, and determine
its classification. Thus in Worthtngton v _-obb,&ns, 139 U S.
.337, the merchandise imported was known as "white hard.
.enamel," and was used for various purposes, including the
making of faces or surfaces of watch dials, scale columns of
thermometers, faces or surfaces of steam-gauge dials, and for
.other purposes where a smooth or enamelled surface was desired. The articles were claimed by the collector to be
.dutiable as "watch materials," but as it was shown that their
form and condition would have to be changed by grinding or
-pulverizing, they were held to be dutiable as non-enumerated
manufactures.
The articles in question were properly classified by the
-collector, and the judgment of the court below must therefore be
Reversed and the ease remandedfor a new tnal.

GRIMM v. UNITED STATES.
EiRROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 424. Argued and submitted January 23, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 1895.

While the possession of obscene, lewd, or lascivious books, pictures, etc.,
constitutes no offence under the act of September 26, 1888, c. 1039, 25
Stat. 496, it is proper in an indictment for committing the offence pro-

