CONNELL v. SMILEY.
Syllabus.

demurrer and plea of Charles F Hall and dismissing the suit
as to him., and that it was not necessary to take an appeal from
the latter order until after the whole case was determined in
the court below
In Hill v Chwago & Evanston Railroad,140 U. S. 52, a
decree had been rendered June 8, 1885, dismissing a bill as to
certain parties for want of equity, and denying relief to complainant upon all matters and things in controversy except as
to an amount of money paid by one of the defendants, and for
the purpose of ascertaining that amount the case was retained
as to some of the defendants, which finally resulted in a decree,
July 14, 1887, as to that severable matter. It was held that,
under these circumstances, the decree of June 8, 1885, was a
final decree as to all matters determined by it, and that its
finality was not affected by the fact that there was left to be
determined a further severable matter, in respect of which the
case was retained only as against the parties interested in that
matter. An appeal had been prayed from the decree of June
8, 1885, but the transcript of the record not having been filed
here at the next term after the appeal was taken, it was, on
motion, dismissed. Hill v Chicago & Evanston Railroad,129
U S. 170.
Thins decree cannot, however, be brought within the exception created by the peculiar circumstances of that case.
As the order upon the demurrer did not dispose of the whole
case, the decree is not final, and we cannot entertain jurisdic
tion.
Appeal dismissed.

CONNELL v. SMILEY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 14.

Submitted January 22, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 1895.

A party in a cause pending in a state court who petitions for its .removal to
a Federal court, or who consents to its removal, cannot after removal
object to it as not asked for in time.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.
It is the duty of this court, however, to consider objections to the removal
of a cause from a state court which are apparent on the record.
In this case it does not appear from the record that the controversy was
not a separable controversy, or that the case was improperly removed.

Tnis was an action originally brought March 16, 1887, by
John A. Smiley, a citizen of Nebraska, against William J Connell, also a citizen of that State, in the District Court of
Douglas County, Nebraska, to quiet title to eighty acres of
land. The petition alleged that the plaintiff made a deed
of the tract in which a proposed corporation was named as
grantee, which was deposited in escrow to be delivered when
the corporation was fully organized and certain stock issued to
plaintiff, that the corporate enterprise was abandoned, but the
deed, contrary to intention and without plaintiff's knowledge
or consent, was placed on record, that one Frederick Lay
recovered judgment against the corporation, and the land was
sold on execution issued thereon, and bid in by Lay's attorneys,
one of whom was Connell, and conveyed by the sheriff to
them, and by Connel's associate to him, that plaintiff was in
ignorance of this until long after, that the corporation had
reconveyed and that Lay had assigned the judgment and quitclaimed any interest thereunder to him. The specific prayer
was that the court might decree "that said Connell took no
interest in said land by reason of said sale upon execution
issued on said judgment, that the said sheriff's deeds be set
aside and the title to said land be quieted in plaintiff." On
the eighteenth of Tune, 1887, a motion was filed in the cause
by W J Connell as attorney for Herbert Al. Tenney, which
read "And now comes Herbert M. Tenney and hereby repre-sents that he has and at the time of the commencement of this
action did have an interest in the property in controversy
herein, and he therefore asks to be made a party defendant,
and so allowed to file an answer herein and defend his said
The record shows on the same day an order in
interest."
these words "On motion and for good cause shown, it is
ordered that F H. Lay be, and he hereby is, made a party defendant in this action and is allowed to file an answer herein
within twenty days." The answer of defendant Connell was.

CONNELL v, SMLEY.
Statement of the Case.

filed July 7, 1887, setting forth among other things "that
prior to commencement of this action a portion of said premises was conveyed by deed to Herbert M. Tenney and F H.
Lay, who now claim to be the owners of the premises so conveyed." On the same day Lay and Tenney, by their attorney,
Connell, filed their petition and bond for removal to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska.
The -etition stated "Your petitioners, Frederick H. Lay and
Herbert M. Tenney, defendants in the above-entitled suit,
respectfully show to the court that at this time and at the
commencement of this action and for a long time prior
thereto the said Frederick H. Lay was and is a citizen of the
State of Colorado, and the said Herbert M. Tenney was and is
a citizen of the State of Ohio. Your petitioners further show
that the said John A. Smiley, plaintiff, is a citizen of the State
of Nebraska, and at the time of the commencement of said suit
was a citizen of the State of Nebraska, and further say that
the amount in dispute in said action exceeds the sum of
$2000.00, exclusive of costs, and m fact exceeds the sum of
$10,000.00, exclusive of costs, and that each of said parties
own and claim separate and distinct portions of said land."
Attached was the affidavit of Connell "that he is the attorney for the above-named defendants, Frederick H. Lay and
Herbert M. Tenney, and that the facts contained in the foregoing petition are true." The bond was signed by Lay and
Tenney by their attorney, Connell. Thereupon, August 8,
1887, an order for removal was entered, which "concluded
"And by consent of parties the said cause is removed as to
said defendant Connell, as well as to the other defendants."
The plaintiff thereupon filed in the Circuit Court his petition
for leave to file an amended and supplemental bill, making
Tenney and Lay defendants, which leave was granted,
and an amended and supplemental bill filed accordingly
against Conuell, Tenney, and Lay This bill averred that
after the filing of the original bill, "the defendant Connell
signed and acknowledged two deeds purporting to convey to
each of said defendants Lay and Tenney a portion of your
orator's said land, and caused the said deeds to be recorded in
vOL. cLrv-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the office of the county clerk of said county Said deeds bear
a date previous to the filing of your orator's said bill ," that
thereafter the defendants Tenney and Lay by their attorney,
the defendant Connell, applied to said District Court to be
admitted as defendants in the suit, and on the 18th of June,
1887, of the May term were, by said court, so admitted. It
was further alleged that on July 7, 1887, actions of ejectment
had been commenced against plaintiff by Lay, Tenney, and
Connell, severally, to obtain possession of portions of the land
in dispute.
February 15, 1888, Tenney answered the amended bill of
complaint, stating, among other things, that he "admits that
said defendant Connell by deed to this defendant and to said
defendant Lay conveyed the portions of said land in said bill
of complaint described as having been so conveyed, but this
defendant denies that said deeds were made after the filing of
said bill, but, on the contrary, the defendant charges that said
deeds were made, executed, and acknowledged the day on
which they bear date." On the same day the answer of Connell to the amended bill was filed, and on February 22 the
answer of Lay, containing similar allegations. Replications
were filed to these answers, and the cause was subsequently
heard and a decree rendered in favor of the complainant with
costs, it being stated at the foot of the decree "To the jurisdiction of the court to render a decree herein the said respondents object, and to which several findings and each thereof
and to which said decree the said respondents except and pray
an appeal, which is hereby allowed," etc. An appeal was subsequently prosecuted to this court.
.l " William J Connell in person for himself appellant.
.Mr William J B2'yan for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
On behalf of appellants briefs are submitted for appellant
Connell only, and his contention is that the decree should be

CONNELL v. SMILEY.
Opinion of the Court.

reversed and the cause remanded with a direction to remand it
to the state court, because improperly removed to the Circuit
Court.
The grounds urged are that Tenney and Lay were intervenors deriving title from Connell, the original defendant,
that they were purchasers pendente lite because their deeds
were not delivered or were not recorded prior to the commencement of the suit, that they therefore were not entitled
to remove because Connell was not, that the application was
made too late, and that there was no separable controversy
as to petitioners capable of removal.
Whether the petition for removal was filed in time it is immaterial to consider, as neither Tenney nor Lay, who petitioned for removal, nor Connell, who consented as a party
and participated as their attorney, can now raise the objection. Ayers v Watson, 113 U S. 594, .Matin v. Baltimore
& Ohw Railroad,161 U S. 673.
By the second section of the act of March 3, 1881, c. 373, as
corrected by the act of Aug. 13, 1888, c. 866, it was prowded
"And when in any suit mentioned in this section there shall
be a controversy which is wholly between citizens of different
States, and which can be fully determined as between them,
then either one or more of the defendants actually interested
in such controversy may remove said suit into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the proper district," 25 Stat.
433, and by the fifth section of the act of March 3, 1875, c.
137, "that if, in any suit commenced in a Circuit Court or
removed from a state court to a Circuit Court of the United
States, it shall appear to the satisfaction of said Circuit Court,
at any time after such suit has been brought or removed
thereto, that such suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction
of said Circuit Court, or that the parties to said suit have been
improperly or collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs or
defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable or
removable under this act, the said Circuit Court shall proceed
no further therein, but shall dismiss the suit or remand it to
the court from which it was removed as justice may require,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

and shall make such order as to costs as shall be just." 18
Stat. 470, 472.
And since "on every writ of error or appeal, the first and
fundamental question is that of jurisdiction, first, of this court,
and then of the court from which the record comes, this question the court is bound to ask and answer for itself, even when
not otherwise suggested, and without respect to the relation
of the parties to it." Aanefteld, Coldwater &o. Railway v
Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 382.
If plaintiff had brought his suit in the state court against
Tenney or Lay alone in respect of the particular parcel of land
claimed by either, and, on proper petition, the defendant had
removed the case to the Circuit Court, where it had thereupon
gone to decree against him, he could not have procured a reversal on the ground of want of jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court unless the record had disclosed that Connell was an
indispensable party and Equity rule 47 inapplicable, in which
case this court might have reversed the decree and directed a
dismissal of the suit.
As remarked in Louisville and Nashville Railroadv ide,
114 U S. 52, 56 "Separate answers by the several defendants
sued on joint causes of action may present different questions
for determination, but they do not necessarily divide the suit
into separate controversies. A defendant has no right to say
that an action shall be several which a plaintiff elects to make
joint. Smith v Rsnes, 2 Sumner, 348. A separate defence
may defeat a joint recovery, but it cannot deprive a plaintiff
of his right to prosecute his own suit to final determination in
his own way The cause of action is the subject-matter of the
controversy, and that is for all the purposes of the suit whatever the plaintiff declares it to be in his pleadings." But
where a plaintiff has brought suit against a sole defendant,
and others, intervening, claim several interests in the subjectmatter, involving separate defences as to such interests, separable controversies might be held to exist as to them, although
the developments in the after progress of the case might show
they were not such.
Plaintiff brought his suit seeking relief as against Connell

CON ELL v. SMILEY.
Opinion of the Court.

alone. Tenney and Lay intervened, claiming to be owners of
distinct portions of the tract, and removed the suit on the
ground that the controversy as to each of them was separable,
and, according to Barney v Latham, 103 U S. 205, Brooks
v. Clark, 119 U S. 502, 512, the whole case was removed, the
record here adding that the removal as to Connell was "by
consent of parties." It is now said there was no separable
controversy because the controversy indicated could not be
fully determined as between Tenney and Lay, or either of
them, and the plaintiff without the presence of Connell. This,
however, if so, did not appear at the time of the removal, and
whether it did afterwards in such wise that it became the
duty of the Circuit Court to remand the cause because not
really and substantially involving a dispute or controversy not
properly within its jurisdiction, is determinable on other considerations.
Appellants do not deny that the petition for removal was
presented in good faith, and, although it left much to be desired in the way of fulness and accuracy, it set up a separable
controversy, which might have involved the defence of bona
fide purchase for value without notice, and apparently could
have been fully determined as between them and the plaintiff,
even in respect of the proceedings on execution, in the absence
of Connell, who cannot be allowed to say that his claim to the
remaining portion of the land would have been legally affected
by such determination. The question before us is, therefore,
whether it appeared on the hearing that no such separable
controversy really and substantially existed, and that the Cir.cuit Court erred -in not remanding the case. The cause was
heard upon the merits. The record does not purport to contam all the evidence, and most of the depositions and the exhibits are omitted in printing by designation of appellant
under rule 10. There is evidence tending to show that Connell conveyed some twenty acres to Lay at or about the time
of a settlement between them, but the deeds to Lay and to
Tenney do not appear. Whether as matter of fact Tenney
and Lay were purchasers yendente lite, or the controversy as
to them was not separable, is not so disclosed as to compel the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

reversal- of the decree at the instance of appellants, and in
spite of the position they occupied to the contrary It is suggested that the principles in relation to separable controversies
were not so well understood in 1887 as at this date, and except
for that appellants would not have attempted to remove the
cause, but the petition, though imperfect, was sufficient to
accomplish the result of forcing appellee into the Circuit
Court, and we find ourselves at liberty to decline to deprive
him of his decree on the ground that the cause was not rightfully transferred.
Decree afirmed.

PALMER v. CORNING.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK
No. 13t.Argued January 8, 9, 1895.-Decided March 4,1895.

The improvement in sewer gratings patented to Henry W Clapp by letters
patent No. 134,978, dated January 21, 1873, involved no invention.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.M& Edwsn -H.Risley for appellant.
-Hr George T 8pencer for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The sole question in this case is whether the appliance to
which the plaintiff in error claims the rights of a patentee under the grant of letters patent No. 134,978, bearing
date January 21, 1873, issued to his assignor, involves invention, or is simply a manifestation of mechanical skill.
There is no doubt that in this, as in all similar cases, the
letters patent are prms facte evidence that the device was
patentable. Still, we are always required, with this presumption in mind, to examine the question of invention vel non upon
its merits in each particular case. In the present instance the
letters patent state the device to be an "improvement in
gratings for sewer inlets," and describe it as follows

