DUNBAR v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.
-execution

of the sentence is very near, we have examined the

application, and are of opinion that the question of the sufficiency of the indictment is not a Federal question, and that no
Federal question appears upon the record to have been presented to the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia, and therefore, upon the authority of Leeper v Texas. 139 U S. 462, and
-Duncanv Missoun, 152 U. S. 311,
The writ of error ss not allowed.

DUNBAR v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 693. Argued December 5, 6, 1894.-

Decided January 28, 1895.

In an indictment for smuggling opium a description of the property
smuggled as "prepared opium, subject to duty by law, to wit, the
duty of twelve dollars per pound," is a sufficient description of the
property subjected to duty by paragraph 48 of § 1 of the tariff act of
October 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26 Stat. 567.
It is no valid objection to an indictmentjthat the description of the property
in respect to which the offence is charged to have been committed is
broad enough to include more than one specific article; and any words of
description which make clear to the common understanding that in
respect to which the offence is alleged to have been committed are
sufficient.
-A defendant who waits till after verdict before making objection to the
sufficiency of the indictment waives all objections which run to the
mere form in which the various elements of the crime are stated, or to
the fact that the indictment is inartificially drawn.
-One good count in an indictment containing several, is sufficient to sustain
a judgment.
United States v. Caril, 105 U. S. 611, distinguished from this case.
-A charge that the defendant wilfully, unlawfully, and knowingly, and with
intent to defraud the revenues of the United States smuggled and clandestinely introduced into the United States prepared opium carries with
it a direct averment that he knew that the duties were not fully paid,
and that he was seeking to bring such goods into the United States without their just contribution to the revenues, and is therefore not subject
to the objection that a scenter is not alleged.
An objection to the admissibility of testimony as to a count upon which the
accused is acquitted is immaterial.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.
Secondary evidence is admissible to show the contents of letters in the
possession of the defendant in a criminal proceeding, when he refuses
to produce them on notice to do so, and cannot be compelled to produce
them.
When a competent witness testifies that a writing which he produces was
received by him and that a defendant on trial in a criminal proceeding
admitted that he sent it to hun, a foundation is laid for the introduction
of the writing against the defendant, although not in his handwriting.
An instruction objected to as misrepresenting the testimony and as attempting to enforce as a conclusion from the misrepresented testimQny that
which was only a possible inference therefrom, is examined and held
to fairly leave the question of fact to the jury and not to overstate the
inference from it, if found against the defendant.
An instruction to the jury that "a reasonable doubt is not an unreasonable
doubt, that is to say, by a reasonable doubt you are not to understand
that all doubt is to be excluded, you are required to decide the question
submitted to you upon the strong probabilities of the case, and the probabilities must be so strong as not to exclude all doubt or possibility of
error, but as to exclude reasonable doubt," gives all the definition of
reasonable doubt which a court can be required to give.

ON July 14,1893, there was returned into the District Court
of the United States for the District of Oregon an indictment
against the defendant, William Dunbar, now plaintiff in error,
charging him in five counts, under § 2865, Rev Stat., with the
crime of smuggling. On November 25, 1893, there was also.
filed in the same court a second indictment charging him in
nine counts with a violation of § 3082, Rev Stat.
Section 2865 provides "If any person shall knowingly and
wilfully, with intent to defraud the revenue of the United
States, smuggle, or clandestinely introduce, into the United
States, any goods, wares, or merchandise, subject to duty by
law, and which should have been invoiced, without paying or
every such person
accounting for the duty,
shall be deemed guilty," etc. The charge in the third count
of the first indictment was, "that on the 2d day of September, 1892, in the State of Oregon and in the District of Oregon
and within the jurisdiction of this court, the said William
Dunbar did, on the steamship Haytian Republic. a steamship
plying between the port of Portland, Oregon, in the United
States, and Vancouver, in the province of British Columbia,.

DUNBAR v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Dominion of Canada, wilfully, unlawfully, and knowingly and
with intent to defraud the revenues of the United States
smugg,e and clandestinely introduce into the United States,
to wit, into the State of Oregon, and within the jurisdiction of
this court, and from a foreign country, to wit, the province of
British Columbia, in the Dominion of Canada, certain goods,
wares, and merchandise, to wit, a large quantity of prepared
opim, being about 1400 pounds of prepared opium, the exact
number of pounds being to the grand jury unknown, of the
value of $15,400, subject to duty by law, to wit, a duty of
twelve dollars ($12) per pound, and which should have been
invoiced, without paying or accounting for said duty or any
part thereof and without having said opium or any part
thereof invoiced, contrary to the form of the statutes in such
cases made and provided and against the peace and dignity of
the United States of America." The fourth count was different only in the time and the amount of opium charged to have
been smuggled.
Section 3082 is as follows "If any person shall fraudulently
or knowingly import or bring into the United States, or assist
in so doing, any merchandise, contrary to law, or shall receive,
conceal, buy, sell. or in any manner facilitate the transportation,
concealment, or sale of such merchandise after importation,
knowing the same to have been imported contrary to law, such
merchandise shall be forfeited and the offender shall be fined,"
etc. The substance of the second, fourth, and fifth counts of
the second indictment was that the defendant did "wilfully,
unlawfully, and knowingly and with intent to defraud the
revenues of the United States smuggle and clandestinely introduce into the United States" certain amounts of prepared
opium. The ninth count charged that "on the 5th day of
February, 1893, said William Dunbar, in the District of Oregon and within the jurisdiction of this court, did wilfully,
unlawfully, fraudulently, and knowingly and with intent to
defraud the revenues of the United States facilitate the transportation after importation of a large quantity of prepared
opium to wit, about 200 pounds of prepared opium, the exact
number of pounds being to the grand jury unknown, which pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

pared opium was subject to a duty by law, to wit, to a duty of
Zwelve dollars ($12) per pound, and which should have been
invoiced, and which prepared opium on said 5th day of February, 1893, had been knowingly, wilfullv, unlawfully, and
fraudulently brought, imported, smuggled, and clandestinely
introduced into the United States and into the District of
Oregon and within the jurisdiction of this court, from a foreign country, to wit, from the province of British Columbia,
Dominion of Canada, and upon which prepared opium no duty
had been paid or accounted for according to law, and none of
said prepared opium had been invoiced, he, the said William
Dunbar, then and there well knowing that no duty had been
paid or accounted for according to law on said prepared opium,
and that none of said prepared opium had been invoiced, and
that the same and the whole thereof had been unlawfully, wilfully, knowingly, and fraudulently brought, imported, smuggled, and clandestinely introduced into the United States and
into the District of Oregon from said foreign country, said
province of British Columbia, in said Dominion of Canada as
aforesaid, that the said William Dunbar did then and there
facilitate the transportation of said opium, after importation,
by packing the same in trunks and causing the same to be
transported as baggage from Portland, Oregon, to San Francisco, California, contrary to the of statute in such cases
made and provided and against the peace and dignity of the
United States."
On November 27, 1893, the court made an order consolidating the two cases for trial. Upon the trial of the consolidated
cases the jury returned a verdict of guilty, as charged in the
six counts above referred to of the two indictments. A motion for a new trial having been overruled, judgment was
entered sentencing the defendant to pay a fine of $1000, and
to be imprisoned for a term of two years. To reverse such
judgment and sentence the defendant sued out this writ of
error.
2Mr John H. -Mitchell for plaintiff in error.
2fr A8szstant Attorney General Conrad for defendants in
error.

DUNBAR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
XF.. JUSTICE

Bi~wER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The first question presented for our consideration is as to
the sufficiency of these counts in the indictment. The description of the property charged to have been smuggled is "prepared opium
subject to duty by law, to wit, the duty
of twelve dollars per pound."
The revenue act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26 Stat. 567,
commonly known as the "1McKinley act," was in force at the
time of the commission of these alleged offences, and the only
clauses in it in terms prescribing a duty on opium imported
from foreign countries are paragraphs 47 and 48 of section 1,
which read.
"47. Opium, aqueous extract of, for medicinal uses, and
tincture of, as laudanum, and all other liqmd preparations of
opium, not specially provided for in this act, forty per centum
ad valorem.
"48. Opium containing less than nine per centum of morphia, and opium prepared for smoking, twelve dollars per
pound, but opium prepared for smoking and other preparations of opium deposited m bonded warehouse shall not be
removed therefrom without payment of duties, and such duties
shall not be refunded."
The contention is that opium is dutiable only m certain
specified forms and conditions, as follows aqueous extract
of opium for medicinal uses, tincture of opium, as laudanum,
all other liquid preparations of opium not specially provided
for in the act, opium containing less than nine per centum
of morphia, and opium prepared for smoking, that there is
nothing known to the revenue law simply as "prepared
opium," and, therefore, that a charge of bringing in prepared opium" without any payment of duty states nothing
which the law prohibits. It is true that the language of paragraph 48 is "opium prepared for smoking," while the indictment reads "prepared opium," and thus does not limit the
description by stating the purpose for which the opium
charged to have been smuggled was prepared. Opium may,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

it is said, be prepared for many uses, the statute only imposes
a duty on "opium prepared for smoking," hence the indictment is not precise, as it must be, because the terms of description are broad enough to include opium prepared for purposes
other than smoking, and not subject to any duty
But although these are purely statutory offences, it is unnecessary to resort to the very words of the statute. The
pleader is at liberty to use any form of expression, provided
only that he thereby fully and accurately describes the offence,
and the entire indictment is to be considered in determining
whether the offence is fully stated. The argument made by
counsel omits to notice other words, which clearly limit any
generality in the term "prepared opium," and so limit it as to
bring the article charged to have been smuggled within the
bounds of the statute. The description is not merely of "prepared opium," but of such opium "subject to duty by law, to
wit, the duty of twelve dollars per pound." In other words,
the defendant is charged to have smuggled that kind of prepared opium which is subject by law to a duty of twelve dollars a pound. Turning to paragraph 48 we find that "opium
prepared for smoking" is the only "prepared opium" expressly
subject to such duty It is no answer to this to say that opium
containing less than nine per cent of morphia is also subject
to the same duty, and that the term "opium" in this clause
is broad enough to include both crude and prepared opium.
For, if " opium" as there used does not exclusively refer to
crude opium, and if opium prepared for other uses than that
of smoking is, when containing less than nine per cent of
morphia, subject to the duty of twelve dollars a pound, "prepared opium subject to duty of twelve dollars per pound"
can mean only opium prepared for smoking, which, irrespective of the amount of morphia contained in it, is subject to
that duty, or opium having less than nine per cent of morphia
and prepared for other uses, which is also subject to like duty
In either case the property charged to have been smuggled is
property within the very terms of paragraph 48.
Further, paragraph 48 is not the statute describing the
offences and imposing the penalties. Sections 2865 and 3082

DUNBAR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

are the penal sections, and the description in the one is
"goods, wares, and merchandise subject to duty by law," and
in the other simply "merchandise." While in an indictment
under those sections it might not be sufficient to use only
those words in describing the property charged to have been
smuggled, because they are too general and do not sufficiently identify the property, yet, any words of descmription
which make clear to the common understanding the articles
in respect to which the offence is alleged are sufficient. There
can be no doubt that the defendant knew exactly what he
was charged with having smuggled, and that the description
was so precise and full that he could easily use a judgment
under these indictments in bar of any subsequent prosecution.
It is true some parol testimony might be required to show
the absolute identity of the smuggled goods, but such proof
is often requisite to sustain a plea of once in jeopardy It is
no valid objection to an indictment that the description of the
property in respect to which the offence is charged to have
been committed is broad enough to include more than one
specific article. Thus, an indictment charging the larceny
of "a horse, the property of A B," is not overthrown by proof
that A B is the owner of many horses, any one of which will
satisfy the mere words of description. Yet, to make available a judgment on such an indictment m bar of a subsequent
prosecution, something beside the record might be reqmred to
identify the property mentioned in the two indictments. See
Unzted States v Clafin, 13 Blatchford, 178. In that case,
which was one of smuggling, the description was "certain
goods, wares, and merchandise, to wit six cases containing
silk goods of the value of $30,000, a more particular description of which is to the jurors unknown," and it was held sufficient. The rule is that if the description brings the property,
m respect to which the offence is charged, clearly within the
scope of the statute creating the offence, and at the same time
so identifies it as to enable the defendant to fully prepare his
defence, it is sufficient.
Further, no objection was made to the sufficiency of the
indictments by demurrer, motion to quash, or in any other

OOTOBEE TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

manner until after the verdict. While it may be true that a
defendant by waiting until that time does not waive the objection that some substantial element of the crime is omitted,
yet he does waive all objections which run to the mere form
in which the various elements of the crime are stated, or to
the fact that the indictment is inartificially drawn. If, for
instance, the description of the property does not so clearly
identify it as to enable him to prepare his defence, he should
raise the question by some preliminary motion, or perhaps by
a demand for a bill of particulars, otherwise it may properly
be assumed as against him that he is fully informed of the
precise property in respect to which he is charged to have
violated the law
In this connection, also, reference may be made to section
1025, Revised Statutes, which provides that "no indictment
shall be deemed insufficient
by reason of
any defect or imperfection in matter of form only, which shall
not tend to the prejudice of the defendant." This, of course,
is not to be construed as permitting the omission of any matter of substance, United States v Carll, 105 U S. 611, but is
applicable where the only defect complained of is that some
element of the offence is stated loosely and without technical
accuracy For these reasons we are of opinion that the first
and principal challenge of the indictment cannot be sustained.
A second objection, which is made to all of these counts
with the exception of the ninth in the second indictment, is
that a sm'enter is not alleged. But one good count is sufficient
to sustain the judgment, and as it is conceded that the ninth
is not open to the objection, it is perhaps unnecessary to consider whether the others are justly exposed to such criticism.
Nevertheless, we have carefully examined them and are of
the opinion that to none is this objection well taken. They
charge that the defendant "did wilfully, unlawfully, and
knowingly, and with intent to defraud the revenues of the
United States, smuggle and clandestinely introduce, into the
United States" the prepared opium. It is stated in 1 Bishop
Crim. Pro. (3d ed.) § 501, that "the words 'knowingly' or
' well knowing' will supply the place of a positive averment

DUNBAR, v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

that the defendant knew the fact subsequently stated." And
to like effect are the authorities generally The language of
the indictment quoted excludes the idea of any unintentional
and ignorant bringing into the country of prepared opium
upon which the duty had not been paid, and is satisfied only
by proof that such bringing in was done intentionally, knowingly, and with intent to defraud the revenues of the United
States. Indeed, the word "smuggling," as used, carries with
it the implication of knowledge. In Bouvier, vol. 2, p. 528,
smuggling is defined "The fraudulent taking into a country,
or out of it, merchandise which is lawfully prohibited." And
such is the, general understanding of its meaning. We have,
therefore, both the use of a term which implies intentional misconduct and a specific averment that what was done was done
wilfully, knowingly, and with intent to defraud. But it is
said that there should be a specific averment that the defendant knew that the duty had not been paid on the opium, and
in support of that contention Untd States v Ca 1, sura, is
referred to. In that case an indictment charging the defendant with passing a counterfeited obligation of the United
States was held fatally defective in failing to allege that the
defendant knew that the obligation was counterfeited, and
this notwithstanding that the language of the indictment
closely followed the words of Rev. Stat. § 5431, the section
under which it was found, and which provides that "every
person who, with intent to defraud, passes, utters, publishes,
or sells
any falsely made, forged, counterfeited, or
altered obligation, or other security, of the United States,
shall be punished," etc., the court saying that "knowledge
that the instrument is forged and counterfeited is essential to
make out the crime, and an uttering, with intent to defraud,
of an instrument in fact counterfeit, but supposed by the
defendant to be genuine, though within the words of the
statute, would not be within its meaning and object." But
the analogy between the two cases is not perfect. The purpose of the statute in that case is the protection of the bonds
or currency of the United States, and not the punishment of
any fraud or wrong upon individuals. Hence it is not suffiVOL. cLVI-13

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

cient to charge that a party is trying to defraud an individual,
and, in carrying that fraud into execution, uses a bond or note
of the United States which he may suppose to be genuine, but
which in fact is counterfeit. For that discloses no criminal
intent in respect to the bond or note, but only a criminal intent as against the individual sought to be defrauded, an intent
which may exist independent of any knowledge of the char
acter of the bond or note. The purpose of the sections under
which these indictments were found is the protection of the
revenues of the United States, and while those revenues may
be in fact lessened by one ignorantly and innocentlr bringing
into the country property subject to duty upon which the duty
is not paid, there can be no intent to defraud those revenues
unaccompanied by knowledge of the fact that the duties have
not been paid. The wrongful intent charged is not to violate
the revenue laws of the United States, which might be satisfied, as suggested by counsel, by proof that defendant wilfully,
knowingly, unlawfully, and fraudulently failed to have the
opium invoiced or included in the manifest of the cargo of
the steamship, or to pass the packages containing it through
the custom-house, or submit to the officers of the revenue for
examination. An intent to defraud the revenues implies an
intent to deprive such revenues of something that is lawfully
due them, and there can be no such intent without knowledge
of the fact that there is something due. So, when the charge
is made that the defendant wilfully, unlawfully, and knowingly,
and with intent to defraud the revenues of the United States,
smuggled, and clandestinely introduced into the United States,
prepared opium, it carries with it a direct averment that he
knew that the duties were not fully paid, and that he was
seeking to bring such goods into the United States without
their just contribution to the revenues. For these reasons we
think that this objection to the indictment also fails.
Again, it is insisted that the court erred in permitting one
Nathan Blum, an accomplice who had turned State's evidence,
to give testimony as to the contents of a letter he had written
to the defendant, and also of letters written by defendant to
parties in British Columbia. According to the bill of ex-

DUNBAR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ceptions the testimony in respect to the first letter was given
by the witness while testifying as to the third count of the
second indictment, and as the jury found the defendant not
guilty under that count, the error, if error there was, may be
considered as immaterial.
With reference to the letters written by the defendant, the
witness testified that they were all copied in the letter-books
belonging to the Merchant Steamship Company, ana were all
in the possession of the defendant. Whereupon the following
proceedings were had, as shown by the bill of exceptions
"Mr. Gearm, (counsel for the United States) Counsel
says they have not had any notice. We now give counsel
and the defendant notice to produce these letters and the
copies they have -the letters written to Dunbar and letterpress copies of letters written by him.
"Mr. McGinn, (counsel for defendant) There are no such
letters in existence. We have not got any such letters.
"Court If you have the letter-books of the company you
can produce them.
"Mr. McGinn Does your honor make a ruling on the request of counsel 2
"Court You have objected to this evidence on the ground
that he has not produced these letters. The witness says
they are in the letter-book itself of Dunbar & Company
"Witness Yes, sir.
"Court. Counsel has notified you that you may produce
these letter-books.
"Mr. McGinn We have no such letters and never have
had.
"Court You may produce the letter-books if you want to."
Io objection was made to the time or manner in which
this notice was given, no suggestion that the defendant
wished time to look over the letter-books and among his
papers to see what he could find corresponding in any degree
to the description given by the witness. On the contrary, the
positive declaration was that he had no such letters, and
never had them. Under those circumstances there was no
error in permitting the witness to testify as to what he claimed

OCTOBER TERMi',

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

to have been in the letters. According to his testimony the
originals or the letter-press copies thereof were in the possession
of the defendant, and as the defendant failed to produce them,
and could not be compelled to produce them, the door was
opened for secondary evidence of their contents. Of course,
whether any such letters were ever written, and what, if
written, they contained, presented a question of fact depending
on the credibility of the witness, and that question of fact was
for the consideration of the jury, and not for the determination
of the court.
Again, error is alleged in respect to the admission in evidence of a certain telegram. The facts in respect to this
matter are as follows The witness Blum was stating that
defendant telegraphed certain things to him. An objection
being raised, he produced a type-written telegram, and said
that he received it from the defendant. It was further objected that it was not the original, the one prepared and
signed by the defendant, whereupon the witness testified
that it was delivered to him by the telegraph company, and
that he afterwards talked with the defendant about it, who
confirmed it and admitted that he had sent it. Thereupon the
court permitted the telegram to be read in evidence. In this
there was no error. Whatever may be the rule in other cases,
an admission by defendant that the writing which is offered
is the message which he sent, is sufficient to justify its introduction in evidence. An admission as to a writing is like an
admission of any other fact, and when a competent witness
testifies that a certain writing, which he produces, was
received by him, and that the defendant admitted that he
sent it to him, he has laid the foundation for the introduction
of the writing, and this though it be not in the handwriting
of the defendant.
Again, it is objected that the court erred in permitting a
witness, Sigmund Baer, to testify that he had appropriated
the proceeds of the sale of some of the opium charged to have
been smuggled, in part to take up a draft drawn by the
defendant, on the ground that the paper was itself the best
evidence as to the party by whom it was drawn. The wit-

DUNBAR v.

TNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

ness at first called the paper a note, but afterwards said that
it was a draft drawn by the defendant on Blum, and was held
by a bank for collection, that he paid the money to the bank,
took up the draft, and forwarded it to Blum. The record is
silent as to whether this paper was produced m evidence or
not, but even if produced it would not disclose by whom, or
with what moneys it was paid, or what disposition was made
of it after payment. Those were independent facts, to be
shown by other testimony, and it was not error to permit the
witness to give such other testimony The substantial matter
was the disposition of the moneys realized from the sale of
the opium, and the witness who handled such moneys was
competent to testify as to the disposition he made of them.
Part he used in taling up a draft, and part he deposited to
the credit of the defendant in the Anglo-California Bank
This he said he did in obedience to instructions. Calling the
paper a draft drawn by defendant on Blum was a mere general description, and as the receipt of the paper and its subsequent transmission to Blum were only incidental to the
disposition of the moneys, it was not improper to thus generally describe it. In this connection we may notice the
following instruction
"The ninth count charges the defendant with having facilitated the transportation of 200 pounds of opium on the 5th
day of February, 1892. Now, this is the opium that it is claimed
was sold probably by Sigmund Baer. I think it is claimed to
be the opium sold by Sigmund Baer, as is claimed, for Dunbar
and Blum. Sigmund Baer testifies that Dunbar's drafts were
paid out of the sale of opium, and it is claimed it was the sale
of this opium, and that the balance of the money after the
payment of the draft was deposited to Dunbar's credit. If
that is so, the circumstances would be inconsistent with innocence on the part of Dunbar of this transportation, and the
tendency would be to connect Dunbar with it, because ordinarily men do not deposit money to pay the debts of other
people or deposit it to the credit of other people unless tliat
money belongs to those people and there is some understanding that it is to be done. Dunbar has denied that he has any

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

knowledge of any transaction of tins character. Whether
this denial is overcome by the testimony on the part of the
government is left to your judgment."
The complaint of this is, first, that it misrepresents the testimony, and, second, that it attempts to enforce as an absolute conclusion from such testimony, thus misrepresented, that
which is only a possible inference therefrom. We do not
think that it is justly exposed to this criticism. It refers to
the testimony of the witness Baer, and, stating that the defendant denies any knowledge of the transaction as testified to
by Baer, submits to the jury the question as to whether this
demal is overcome by the testimony offered by the government. If so overcome, and the jury find that not only was
the money, the proceeds of the sale of the smuggled opium,
in fact applied to defendant's benefit, but also that it was so
applied with his knowledge, a legitimate inference -would be
that he was connected with the importation, for ordinarily
men do not dispose of money in the manner indicated, unless
it belongs to the party for whom it is so used. This instruction, it must be borne in mind, is given m reference to that
count in the indictment which charges the defendant with
facilitating the transportation of the opium, and not those
which charge him with being himself the party who was
guilty of smuggling. If he knowingly permits the appropriation of the proceeds of the smuggled opium to his own
benefit, either in the payment of his drafts or in increasing
the amount of his account at the bank, he is helping to make
successful the unlawful venture, and certainly those facts
would be inconsistent with the idea of his entire innocence
m respect to the matter. It will also be borne in mind that
this instruction is not that if these things be so the defendant
must be found guilty, but only that they are inconsistent with
his innocence in respect to the transportation. We think that
the question of fact was fairly left to the jury, and that the
inference from those facts, if found against the defendant, was
not too strongly stated.
Again, error is alleged in the instructions in respect to the
matter of reasonable doubt. It is urged that the court failed

DUNBAR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

to instruct the jury as to what constitutes a reasonable doubt,
and that in speaking of it it used the term "strong probabilities."
Repeated attempts have been made by judges to make clear
to the minds of the jury what is meant by the words "reasonable doubt," but, as said by Mr. Justice Woods, speaking for
this court, in .Miles v Umted States, 103 U. S. 304, 312,
"attempts to explain the term 'reasonable doubt' do not
usually result in making it any clearer to the minds of the
jury" And so, when the court in this case said to the jury,
"I will not undertake to define a reasonable doubt further
than to say that a reasonable doubt is not an unreasonable
doubt -that is to say, by a reasonable doubt you are not to
understand that all doubt is to be excluded, it is impossible
in the determination of these questions to be absolutely certain. You are required to decide the question submitted to
you upon the strong probabilities of the case, and the probabilities must be so strong as, not to exclude all doubt or possibility of error, but as to exclude reasonable doubt," it gave
all the definition of reasonable doubt which a court can be
required to give, and one which probably made the meaning
as intelligible to the jury as any elaborate discussion of the
subject would have done. While it is true that it used the
words "probabilities" and "strong probabilities," yet it emphasized the fact that those probabilities must be so strong as to
exclude any reasonable doubt, and that is unquestionably the
law flopt v. Utah, 120 U S. 430, 439, Commonwealth v.
Costley, 118 Mass. 1, 23.
It is further objected that the court erred in stating to the
jury that the testimony of certain witnesses was of the character of corroborating testimony, that is, testimony tending to
support that given by accomplices. As the record fails to preserve all the evidence, either that of the accomplices, or that
of the corroborating witnesses, we are unable to say from the
reference thereto made by the court m its charge that there
was any error in this respect. So far as we can gather from
what is before us it would seem that the court made no mistake in pointing out certain items of testimony as corroboratory to that furnished by the accomplices. One purpose in

OCTOBER TERMI,

1894.

Statement of the Case.

these references, as stated in the charge, was to indicate to
the jury that as to certain counts there could be no conviction,
because as to them the testimony was only that of an accomOf course the defendant cannot
plice and uncorroborated.
complain of an instruction that no conviction can be had on
any count supported by only the uncorroborated testimony of
an accomplice.
These are the substantial questions presented by counsel.
We have examined them all carefully, and are of the opinion
that no substantial error appears in the record. The judgment is, therefore,
Affirmed.
Mr. JUSTICE FIELD dissented.

DELAWARE AND HUDSON CANAL COMPANY v.
PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 452.

Submitted January 7, 1895. -Decided

January 14, 1895.

Reversed upon the authority of lNew York, Lake Eme & Western Railroad
Co. v. Tennsylvanza, 153 U. S. 628.

THE Delaware and Hudson Canal Company was held liable
in the trial court, whose judgment was affirmed by the Supreme

Court of Pennsylvania, for the amount of a tax of three mills
upon bonds originally issued and sold by the company in the
State of New York, but held in the year 1890 by residents of
Pennsylvania. The tax was imposed upon the bondholders.
The liability of the company was maintained because of the
failure of its treasurer, when paying interest in the city of
New York, to deduct therefrom the amount of the tax and
pay the same into the state treasury of Pennsylvania. The
company, which is a corporation of the State of New York,
constructed a portion of its improvements within the limits of

