MARICOPA & PHCENIX RAILROAD v. ARIZONA.

347

Statement of the Case.

the result of any combination between the opening below
and the grate above. And, moreover, it cannot be contended
that the arrangement of a circular grate supported on pins
with the open spaces between them constitutes the invention,
for it is expressly stated that the grates may be of any form,
round or square.
The judgment below, holding that no invention is involved
in this arrangement, is, we think, obviously correct, and it is,
therefore,
-Affirmed.

MARICOPA AND PH(ENIX RAILROAD COMPANY
v. ARIZONA TERRITORY
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 195. Submitted January 28, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 1595.

When Congress grants to a railway company organized under the laws of
a Territory a right of way over an Indian reservation within the Terntory, and the road is constructed entirely within the Territory, that part
of it within the reservation is subject to taxation by the territorial
government.
The question whether it is so subject to taxation is one within the jurisdiction of this court, when properly brought here, irrespective of the
amount involved.

AFTER the organization of the Territory of Arizona certain
land situated within its geographical limits was set apart as
an Indian reservation for the use of the Pima and Maricopa
Indians. Act of February 28, 1859, c. 66, ยง 3, 11 Stat. 401.
The tract is known as the "Gila River Reservation." The
Maricopa and Phoenix Railroad Company owns and operates
within the Territory of Arizona 21.16 miles of railroad track,
all of which lie within the geographical outlines of the Territory, as named in its organic act, but 6.24: miles are within
the reservation just mentioned. This portion was constructed
under the authority of the. act of Congress of January 17,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

1887, c. 26, 24 Stat. 361, which provided that the railroad
should be "authorized, invested, and empowered with the
right to locate, construct, own, equip, operate, use, and maintain a railway and telegraph and telephone line through the
Indian reservation situated in the Territory of Arizona known
as the Gila River Reservation, occupied by the Pima and
INlaricopa Indians."
"SEac. 2. A right of way one hundred feet in width through
said Indian reservation is hereby granted to the said Maricopa
and Phcenix Railway Company, and a strip of land two hundred feet in width, with a length of three thousand feet, in
addition to said right of way, is granted for stations for every
ten miles of road, no portion of which shall be sold or leased
by the company, with the right to use such additional
ground, where there are heavy cuts or fills, as may be necessary for the construction and maintenance of the road-bed,
not exceeding one hundred feet in width on each side of said
right of way, or as much thereof as may be included in said
And },rowded, further, that before any
cut or fill,
such lands shall be taken for the purposes aforesaid, the consent of the Indians thereto shall be obtained in a manner
satisfactory to the President of the United States."
This act moreover contained a stipulation reserving the
right to amend, alter, or repeal its provisions. The tax laws
of the Territory of Arizona provide as follows
"The president, vice-president, general superintendent, auditor or general officer of any corporation operating any railway in this Territory shall furnish said board, on or before
the first Monday in June in each year, a statement signed and
sworn to by one of such officers, showing in detail the whole
number of miles of railroad in each county, also the whole
number of miles owned, operated, or leased in the Territory
by such corporation making the return, and the value thereof
per mile, with a detailed statement of all property of every
kind, and the value located in each county in the Territory,
seeond, also a detailed statement of the number and value
thereof of engines, passenger, mail, express, baggage, freight,
and other cars or property owned by such railway, and on

MARICOPA & PI(ENIX RAILROAD v. ARIZONA.

849

Statement of the Case.

railways which are a part of lines extending beyond the limits
The returns shall show the actual proporof this Territory
tion of the amount and full cash value of the rolling stock in
use on the corporation's line which is necessary for the transportation of the freight and passengers, and the operation of
the railroad in this Territory, during the year for which the
return is made. The return shall also show the amount and
value of property hereinafter designated in this section, and
such further information shall be furnished as the board may
m writing require. If said officers fail to make such statement,
said board shall proceed to assess the property of the corporation so failing, and shall add thirty per cent to the value
thereof as ascertained and determined by the said board.
The said property shall be valued at its full cash value, and
assessments shall be made upon the entire railway within this
Territory, and shall include the franchise, right of way, roadbed, bridges, culverts, rolling stock, depots, station grounds,
buildings, telegraph lines, and all other property, real and
personal, exclusively used in the operation of such railway
In assessing said railway and its equipments, said board shall
take into consideration all matters connected with said road
necessary to enable them to make a just and equitable assessment of said railway property On or before the third Monday in June in each year said board shall transmit to the
board of supervisors of each county, through or into which
any railway may run, a statement showing the length of the
main track of such railway within the county, and the assessed
value per mile of the same as fixed by a pro rata distribution
per mile of the assessed value of the whole property herein
specified, with a description of the whole of said assessed property within the county by metes and bounds, or other description sufficient for identification. And the said assessment and
pro rata shall be made with reference to the value of the property belonging to said railway other than the main track, situate in each county and municipality through or into which said
railway extends. Where the railroad of a railroad corporation
lies in several counties, its rolling stock must be apportioned
between them so that a portion thereof may be assessed in

OCTOBER TERf, 1894.
Opinon of the Court.

each county, and each county's portion must bear to the whole
rolling stock the same ratio which the number of miles of the
road in such county bears to the whole number of miles of
such road lying in this Territory"
Under this territorial law all the franchises and rights, and
the road-bed, track, rolling stock, etc., of the railroad company were assessed at a valuation of $7000 per mile for 24.16
miles of track. The corporation paid the tax on the mileage
outside of the reservation, but refused to pay on the 6.24 miles
situated within it. Statutory proceedings to compel the payment of the tax culminated in a decree against the company
From this an appeal was prosecuted to the Supreme Court
of the Territory There the decree below was substantially
affirmed, and the corporation was ordered to pay $1212.39,
with costs, this amount being recognized as a subsisting lien
"upon all the property of said ]Mfaricopa and Phoenix Railroad Company, situated in said county of Maricopa, and described as follows, to wit The 24.16 miles of main track, with
franchises and right of way" In consequence of this recogmtion of lien, it was moreover ordered that a copy of the decree
should authorize the tax collector to sell so much of the property as might be necessary to pay the taxes, penalties, and
costs. The case was then brought here by appeal.
.X' Harvey S. Brown for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
JUSTICE WHITE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
MR.

We consider that many of the points which are here pressed
upon our attention are not necessarily involved in the decision
of the cause. The matter in dispute not being above $5000,
exclusive of costs, our jurisdiction depends upon whether
"there is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute
of or an authority exercised under the United States." Act
of March 3, 1885, c. 355, 23 Stat. 443. It is insisted that the
Territory is without authority under its organic act to extend

MARICOPA & PHCENIXK RAILROAD v. ARIZONA.

351

Opinion of the Court.

its taxing power beyond its limits and over a reservation
created by act of Congress, and that it has undertaken
to do so, either directly, or by including the value of the
property within the reservation in its general estimate of the
amount for which the company ought to be assessed. This
claim, we think, presents a question within our appellate jurisdiction. Clayton v. Utah, 132 U S. 632. It is clear that such
issues as involve the regularity of the tax, the sum of the
penalties due, the extent of the lien given by the territorial
law, etc., do not present any question of the exercise of authority under laws of the United States. ]2nford v Ellison,
155 U S.503. It is conceded that there was no treaty with
the Indians for whose benefit the reservation was established,
limiting the power of Congress to grant to the railroad the
rights conveyed. The consent of Congress to the railroad's
entering on the land and using it, as therein provided, was,
then, a valid exercise of power. Jts necessary effect was, to
the extent of the grant and for the purposes thereof, to withdraw the land from the operation of the prior act of reservation. And the immediate consequence of such withdrawal,
so far as it affected the property and rights withdrawn, was
to re~stablish the full sway and dominion of the territorial
authority
Utah & Northern Railway v Fisher,116 U S.
28, Rarkness v Hyde, 98 U. S. 476.
There is no force in the contention that, because the consent
of the Indians, to be given in a manner satisfactory to the
President, was a condition attached to the grant, and it does
not appear by the record that such consent was given, therefore the rights admittedly enjoyed by the corporation are to
be treated as if obtained without the Indians' consent.
In the first place, as the company has taken the rights
granted by the statute, the legal presumption of duty performed (omna rite, etc.) requires us to assume that the consent
was given in accordance with law And again, the company
having assumed and exercised rights which it could possess
only by virtue of such consent, cannot be permitted to aver
its own wrongdoing, trespassing, and violation of the statute
in order to escape its just share of the burden of taxation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

It is wholly immaterial whether the rights vested in the
corporation by the act of Congress were rights of ownership
or merely those which result from the grant of an easementWhatever they were, they were taken out of the reservation
by virtue of the grant, and came, to the extent of their withdrawal, under the jurisdiction of the territorial authority
The fact that Congress reserved the power to alter, amend, or
repeal the statute in no way affected the authority of the
Territory over the rights granted, although the duration of
that authority may depend on the exercise by Congress of
the rights reserved. The method of assessing railroads provided for in the statute was to treat each road as a unit,
embracing the sum of its franchises, property, and rights.
The division of the total amount of the one assessment of
the property of the road, into certain sums per mile was a
mere method of stating the assessment, and did not change
the real unit forming the basis of taxation, the railroad, in its
entirety, comprising every element entering therein, which
could be made assessable. This being the case, it was clearly
lawful for the taxing authorities of the Territory to consider
the rights granted by the act of Congress and enjoyed by
the railroad m making up the sum of the assessment upon its
total property
The other errors alleged, which are four in number, may be
briefly disposed of. Two are concluded by the foregoing
views. The assessment being made as a unit, the description
of the thing assessed as found in the assessment roll was adequate, and the tax being due as a unit was correctly held to
be a lien upon all the property assessed. The territorial court,
as such, had jurisdiction to enforce the territorial law on the
subject of the collection of taxes. The complaint that a penalty on the delinquent tax was erroneously included in the
judgment is, if correct, without merit here. It involves only
an error of calculation for a small amount, and is hence controlled by the principle " de. mnmzs," etc., and, apart from
this, we do not enter into an analysis of the figures to ascertam whether error, in this regard, was committed, because, if
it was, the fact should have been called to the attention of the

UNITED STATES v. THOMAN.
Statement of the Case.

court below, so as to have afforded an opportunity there to
make the requisite correction. Motions for rehearing are
expressly allowed by the statute law of Arizona. (Revised
Statutes 1887, ยง 954.) Instead of availing himself of such a
motion, the appellant, on the day the decree was entered,
gave notice in open court of his intention to appeal, declaring
therein that he excepted "only to such portion of said decision and judgment as decided that railroad property within
the boundaries of an Indian reservation, within the Territory,
is subject to taxation by the Territories or counties, and that
such reservation is under the jurisdiction of the territorial
courts."
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES ex rel. SIEGEL v. THOMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 25. Submitted December 18, 1894. -Decided

March 4, 1895.

The provision in act No. 30 of the Louisiana Statutes of 1877 that the surplus of the revenues of parishes and municipal corporations for any
year may be applied to the payment of the indebtedness of former years
is not mandatory, but only permissory, and creates no contract right in
a holder of such indebtedness of former years which can be enforced by
mandamus.

T.HE legislature of the State of Louisiana in 1877 passed an
act which may be epitomized as follows: That no police jury
of any parish or municipal corporation in the State should
make appropriations or expenditures of money in any year
which should, separately or together, with any appropriations
or expenditures of the same year, be in actual excess of the
actual revenue of the parish or municipality for that year,
and that all the revenues of the parishes and municipalities of
each year should be devoted to the expenditures of that year,
provided "that any surplus of said revenues may be applied
VOL. CLVI-2S

