OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

LAZARUS v. PHELPS.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR TIE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 105. Argued December 12, 1894.-

Decided January 28, 1895.

In an action to recover the rental value of plaintiff's land alleged to havebeen wrongfully taken possession of and occupied by defendant for
grazing purposes, a former judgment in plaintiff's favor against the
defendant for a like possession and occupation of those lands terminating before the commencement of this action, is admissible in evidenceagainst defendant.
A party who is not prejudiced by an erroneous ruling of the judge in the
trial below has no right to complain of it here.
The court having instructed the jury that the obligation of the defendant
rested entirely upon the theory that he had stocked the plaintiff's lands
to their full capacity and enjoyed their exclusive use, it would have been
irrelevant to further charge that defendant's liability was limited to the.
consumption by his own stock.

THIS was an action originally begun by William Walter
Phelps to recover of the plaintiff in error, Samuel Lazarus,
the rental value of 186,880 acres of land in Texas, from
February 5, 1890, at 8 cents per acre. The allegation of
the petition was that defendant permitted large herds of
his cattle and horses to graze upon plaintiff's lands and used
them for pasturage for other cattle, for which he received
hire.
The evidence showed that Phelps was the owner in fee
simple of 149,716 acres of land situated m four different
counties in Texas. The land was in sections of 640 acres
each, alternating with like sections owned by the public
school fund of Texas, plaintiff owning the odd-numbered and
the fund owning the even-numbered sections. In July, 1887,
defendant Lazarus rented from the State, for four years from
that date, the alternate sections of land so owned by it. Prior
to the time of Lazarus' lease, Phelps had a much larger quantity of land, but before the trial had sold 30,000 acres.

LAZARUS v. PHELPS.
Opinion of the Court.

Plaintiff's lands had been rented to Curtis and Atkinson
upon a lease which expired on April 15, 1887. Curtis and
Atkinson built wire fences around the land, or a greater portion of it, enclosing both the lands owned by the plaintiff and
those owned by the State, which were subsequently leased to
defendant. The fence was partly upon plaintiff's land, and
partly upon the school land. Phelps had no cattle within
the enclosure, but the settlers, some 150 in number, had
about 3000 head of cattle running at large and mingling
with defendant's cattle. Defendant had within the enclosure
a number of cattle estimated by the witnesses at 10,500 head.
Plaintiff introduced testimony, which was objected to, showing that on September 17, 1888, he had instituted a suit similar to this one, against the defendant, and on February 5,
1890, recovered a judgment for the use and occupation of
the land to that date. Plaintiff's evidence tended to show
that the land had been stocked to its full capacity Defendant's evidence tended to prove the contrary Plaintiff also
offered evidence showing the value of the land for grazing
purposes, during the time covered by this suit, to have been
four cents per acre per annum, or $5988.14. The trial resulted in a verdict and judgment for plaintiff in the sum of
$5460.32. Defendant thereupon sued out this writ of error.
.Mr .F C. Dillard for plaintiff in error.
XMr Leigh Robinson for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

A similar case between the same parties was before this
court, and is reported in 152 U S.81. In that case the rental
value of the same lands from April 15, 1887, to February 5,
1890, was recovered, and the judgment sustained by thi
court.
1. The first error assigned is to the introduction of the
record of that case. The proof was that, on September 17,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinon of the Court.

1888, plaintiff instituted a suit in the same court, upon a petition containing allegations similar to those in this case, against
the defendant for the use of the land after the expiration of
the Curtis and Atkinson lease, and in such suit recovered
judgment for the use and occupation of said lands up to
February 5, 1890, in the sum of $84117. This evidence was
offered to establish the fact that defendant did have exclusive
possession of said land as charged by plaintiff, and to show
that plaintiff had claimed for the use and value of his land
from the time of the original occupation of the same by the
defendant.
If this had been a mere action of trespass on lands, although
the trespass was a continuous one, it might well be said that
proof that certain trespasses were committed upon divers days
and times before a certain date had no legal tendency to prove
that the same trespasses continued beyond that date. But the
petition in that case, which is admitted by the bill of exceptions to have been similar to the one filed in the case under
consideration, averred not only that defendant, without lawful
authority and by force of arms, entered upon such lands, and
pastured his cattle there, but that during the whole of said
time he converted the said land to his own use, and appropriated and took to himself all its benefits, that at the expiration
of the lease to Curtis and Atkinson, the said Lazarus, defendant, purchased all the cattle of the said Curtis and Atkinson,
which were then running upon the said lands, that defendant,
instead of surrendering said lands to the said plaintiff, as the
said Curtis and Atkinson were bound to do, maintained possession thereof, and has since maintained the fence around the
whole of said lands, excluding others and the cattle of others
therefrom, and "has held, and s now holding, the excluszve
jpossesszon of the same to his own use and benefit." In other
words, the basis of the petition was not only the depasture of
these lands, but the exclusive use and occupation of the same.
The verdict and judgment in that case settled the fact that the
defendant was in the use and occupation of said lands up to February 5, 1890, and, in the absence of evidence to the contrary,
,such possession would be presumed to continue after that date.

LAZARUS v. PHELPS.
Opinion of the Court.

Possession of real property once proven to exist is presumed
to continue. Brown v King, 5 Met. (Mlass.) 173, Gray v.
Finch, 23 Connecticut, 495, Cuprzer v GaZe, 9 Allen, 522,
Smith v Eardy, 36 Wisconsin, 417, Bayard's Iessee v Colefax, 4 Wash. C. C. 38. As the evidence was offered to establish exclusive possession in the defendant, we think the record
of the former judgment was competent.
2. Exception.was also taken to the charge of the court that,
if the jury believed from the evidence that since February 5,
1890, the defendant had possession of the lands of the plaintiff
within said enclosure, and claimed and exercised the exclusive
use and enjoyment of plaintiff's lands for grazing purposes,
and attempted to exclude others therefrom, either by maintaining fences or line riding, or by force through his employgs,
or by any or all these means, then they should find for the
plaintiff such sum as the evidence showed the reasonable value
of the use and occupation of plaintiff's lands so had by defendant for grazing purposes, from said 5th day of February, 1890,
to the date of trial. Defendant excepted to this charge on the
ground that an attempt to exclude strangers from the pasture
would not render him liable, there-being no attempt to exclude
plaintiff or any one claiming under him.
Had all the lands within the enclosure belonged to the
plaintiff, the action of the defendant, in excluding others
therefrom, would have been evidence from which the jury
might reasonably infer that defendant claimed the exclusive
right of possession of the lands, but the argument is that, as
the alternate sections had been leased by the defendant, he
had a lawful right to exclude every one from the enclosure, so
far as he bad leased it, except the plaintiff or his lessees, and
as he could not exclude others from his own lands without also
excluding them from the plaintiff's, the court erred in leaving
this fact to the jury as an assertion of an exclusive right to
the possession of plaintiff's lands. He had as much right as
the plaintiff to exclude strangers from the enclosure, since in
depasturing plaintiff's lands, they would also depasture his
own. But the decisive answer to this argument is that the
proposition of the court was not laid down in the alternative,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

that is, that if the defendant exercised the exclusive use and
enjoyment of the plaintiff's lands, or attempted to exclude
others therefrom, he would be liable, but, after charging
them that they must find an exclusive use and enjoyment of
the lands by the defendant, the court added a further requirement, which appears to have been unnecessary, that they
must also find that he had attempted to exclude others therefrom. Perhaps, however, all that was meant-was to call the
attention of the jury to this fact as tending to prove a claim of
exclusive possession. The court evidently proceeded upon the
theory that, under the pleadings in the case, the plaintiff
could only recover by showing an exclusive use and enjoyment
of his lands by the defendant, and that it was not enough
simply to show that he had pastured certain of his cattle there,
without also showing that he had stocked the lands to their
full capacity In this view, it was quite unnecessary to add the
instruction that they must further find that he had attempted
to exclude others therefrom , but this took nothing from what
the court had previously charged, and was an instruction of
which the plaintiff rather than the defendant had a right to
complain. It added to the plaintiff's burden of showing an
exclusive enjoyment of his lands that of showing that defendant had also attempted to exclude strangers. But it did not
relieve him from the duty of showing such exclusive use and
enjoyment. In other words, the defendant was not prejudiced
by the error and has no right to complain. Lancaster v ColZins, 115 U. S. 222.
3. In this connection, too, defendant requested the further
charge that where several persons own separate tracts of land
in the same enclosure, each one has the right to place enough
stock therein to consume the grass upon his part of the lands,
and is not liable to the others therefor, but if he places therein
more stock than his part of the land will reasonably maintain,
he will be liable to the other owners for the excess, and no
more, and also that if the jury believed from the evidence
that plaintiffs grass was consumed by stock of defendant's
and other persons, then defendant would only be liable for the
part consumed by his own stock, to be ascertained by appor-

IN RE STREEP, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

tioning the total damage in the proportion that the number
of his stock bears to the total number doing the damage.
But, as already stated, the court put the whole liability of
the defendant upon the theory that he had enjoyed the exclusive use and occupation of plaintiff's lands, and had stocked
them to their full capacity If this be so, (and there was evidence to that effect,) then undoubtedly plaintiff would be
entitled to recover the entire rental value of the lands for
grazing purposes. If it were not so, then under the charge
of the court the plaintiff could recover nothing, though defendant may have pastured thousands of his cattle upon these
lands. Whether the court was correct in its view that, under
the pleadings, plaintiff could not recover for a partial depasturage of his lands, is quite immaterial, since if the jury had
found such partial depasturage it would have been their duty,
notwithstanding, to have returned a verdict for the defendant.
In the opinion of the court, the whole obligation of the defendant rested upon the fact that he had stocked the plaintiff's
lands to their full capacity, and had thus enjoyed their exclusive use and occupation. The charge requested was, therefore, irrelevant.
There was no error in the action of the court, and its judgAjfirmed.
ment is, therefore,

In re STREEP, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted January 21,1895. -Decided

January 28, 1895.

The judge in a Circuit Court having settled and signed a bill of exceptions,
this court will not, on an application, supported by affidavits that the bill
as settled and signed is incorrect, issue a writ of mandamus requiring
him to resettle them.

TnIs was an application by Louis F Streep for leave to file
a petition for a mandamus requiring the judge of the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of New

