OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

plaintiff's claim as that relied on by the defendant as showing
fraud, and concurred in and affirmed the findings and judgment of the trial court. But we do not regard any aspect of
the case as open for our consideration except the errors assigned to the action of the Supreme Court of the Territory in
ruling that the findings of the trial court sufficiently embraced
the issues presented by the pleadings.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Utah is hereby

Afflirmed.
DAVIS v. WAKELEE.
APPEAL FRO'M THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 181. Argued January 25, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 1895.

Au appeal authorized by the appellant personally, and in good faith entered
in this court in the name of his attorney and counsel below, will not be
dismissed simply because that counsel had not authorized such entry,
when the appellant, on learning of the mistake, appears by other counsel and prosecutes it in good faith.
The omission to describe in an appeal bond the term at which the judgment appealed from was rendered is an error which may be cured by
furnishing new security.
D. was adjudicated a bankrupt in 1869 in California. W then held six
promissory notes executed by him which were proved in bankruptcy
against D. D. then removed to New York. After that W., by leave of
court, reduced his claim to judgment in a state court of California,
the only notice to D. being by publication, and D. never appearing. In
1875 D. petitioned for his discharge. W opposed it. D. moved to dismiss the objection on the ground that the claim of W had been absorbed
in a judgment obtained after the commencement of the proceedings in
bankruptcy, which would remain in force. The court sustained the
motion, cancelled the proof of the debt and dismissed the specification
of opposition. W then filed a bill in equity in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York to enforce
an estoppel, and to enjoin D. from asserting in defence of any suit which
might be brought upon the judgment that the debt upon which it was
obtained was not merged in it, and from denying its validity as a debt
against D. unaffected by the discharge. Held,
(1) That the judgment was undoubtedly void for want of jurisdiction;

DAVIS v. WAKELEE.
Statement of the Case.
(2) That nevertheless D. was estopped in equity from claiming that it
was void ,
(3) That in view of the uncertainty .which appeared to exist in New
York as to whether a complaint in an action at law would or
would not be demurrable, it must be held that the remedy at law
was not so plain or clear as to oust a court of equity of
jurisdiction,
(4) That the decree below restraining D. from asserting that the judgment was invalid should be affirmed.

THIs was a bill in equity, filed by Angelica Wakelee, a citizen of the State of California, against Davis, a citizen of New
York, to enforce an estoppel, and to enjoin the defendant
from asserting, in defence of any suit which may be brought
,upon a certain judgment recovered by Henry P Wakelee
against Davis, in one of the state courts of California, that
the debts upon which such judgment was obtained were not
merged in such judgment, and from denying the validity of
the judgment, as a debt against Davis, unaffected by his discharge in bankruptcy
The bill averred, in substance, that in August and September, 1869, Davis executed six promissory notes, amounting to
about $15,725, to the order of Henry P Wakelee, and delivered them to him, and that they subsequently became the
property of the plaintiff, that on or about September 30,
1869, Davis was adjudged a bankrupt upon his own petition,
by the District Court for the District of California, and the
notes in question were duly proved against his estate, that
on July 8, 1873, the bankruptcy court granted the, said
Henry P Wakelee leave to bring an action upon these notes,
and that such action was begun by publication of a summons,
under the laws of the State, and without personal service upon
Davis, that on November 18, 1873, Davis not appearing, and
no service having been made upon him, judgment was entered
against him in the sum of $22,760.26.
The bill further alleged that on December 23, 1875, Davis
filed in the bankruptcy court a petition for his discharge, and
that Wakelee thereupon filed specifications of opposition,
which Davis moved to dismiss, upon the ground that Wakelee, subsequent to the commencement of the proceedings in

OCTOBER TERlM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

bankruptcy, had, by leave of the court, brought suit upon
such notes, obtained judgment thereon, "and that said judgment still stood of record in said fifteenth District Court, and
was in full force." That such motion came on for argument,
and it was there claimed by counsel duly authorized to represent Davis, that, by reason of the above facts, the original
debt of Davis to Wakelee, which had been proved up in the
bankruptcy proceeding, had become merged in the judgment
obtained November 18, 1873, in the state court of California,
and thereby became a new debt, created since the adjudication of Davis as a bankrupt. That such judgment was subsisting, valid, and enforceable, and would not be barred,
discharged, or in anywise affected by the discharge of the defendant in bankruptcy That by reason thereof, Wakelee had
no standing, was not interested in the bankruptcy proceedings,
and was not, therefore, competent to oppose the discharge of
Davis. That upon such motion an order was made by the
District Court in bankruptcy that Wakelee's proof of debt
be cancelled, and his specifications of opposition to the discharge be dismissed and set aside. That Wakelee relied upon
the claims and admissions of Davis and of his counsel, and accepted as correct and binding the order of the District Court
dismissing his opposition, and did not appeal therefrom.
That the order was accepted by Davis, who subsequently
obtained his discharge.
That the judgment was subsequently assigned to Angelica
Wakelee, the plaintiff, and in equity was of full and binding
force and validity by reason of the facts above stated, but
that in sundry actions instituted upon such judgment between
Davis and the then owner of the judgment, Davis claimed
and set up that the judgment was void, because of the lack of
jurisdiction of the court wherein it was entered, for the reason
that he was not personally served with process, and did- not
appear in the action, and also pleaded his discharge in bankruptcy as a bar to a recovery upon such judgment. That
plaintiff is about to commence an action at law upon such
judgment against Davis in the State of New York, wherein
defendant now resides, and that she is informed that, under

DAVIS v. WAKELEE.
Opinion of the Court.

the law of the State of New York, the facts herein set forth
cannot be pleaded in the plaintiff's complaint in aid of her
cause of action, but that such action must be brought upon
such judgment alone, and that it is necessary to allege in the
complaint either the facts showing the jurisdiction of the
court, or that the judgment was duly entered, which cannot
be truthfully done.
Wherefore plaintiff prayed f~r the assistance of a court of
equity to adjudge Davis to be estopped by his conduct, and
that he be enjoined from asserting that the debts proved up
by Wakelee against hin were not merged in the judgment, or
from asserting the invalidity of the judgment, or that the
same does not constitute a new debt unaffected by Davis'
final discharge in bankruptcy
A demurrer was filed to this amended bill, which was overruled, 38 Fed. Rep. 878, and defendant answered admitting,
denying, or ignoring the several allegations of the bill, but
setting up no new matter.
Upon a final hearing upon pleadings and proofs the plaintiff was awarded a decree for an injunction restraining the
defendant from asserting that the judgment of November 18,
1873, was invalid, and did not still stand of record. 44 Fed.
IRep. 532. From this decree the defendant appealed to this
court. A motion to dismiss the appeal was made and submitted. .Mr Anson .Maltby for the motion to dismiss. Air
ilenry A. Root, .Mr Joseph 1E. Choate, and .1r Thaddeus .D
ffennesom opposing.
XMr Walter S. -Logan,(with whom was .L" Charles X3.Demond on the brief,) for appellant, on the merits.
.Xr Anson .Maltby for appellee, on the merits.
MR. JusTice. BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Motion was made to dismiss the appeal in this case, upon
the ground (1) that the appearance of Mr. Henry A. Root,
as counsel for the appellant herein, which was entered at the
time the case was docketed, was unauthorized by him, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

made without his knowledge, and (2) that the appeal bond is
defective in failing to state the term at which the decree of
the Circuit Court was rendered.
1. So far as the first ground is concerned, it appears that
Mr. Root, then residing in the city of New York, was solicitor
for the defendant in the court below, that he had taken no
steps to sever his connection with the case, by substituting
other counsel, and that his appearance in this court was
entered at the time the case was docketed, by other counsel,
in good faith, and by virtue of a supposed authority from him.
Under these circumstances, and, inasmuch as other counsel
have appeared and taken charge of the case, the appellant
should not lose his right to a review of the case by this court
through a mistake which not only appears to have been purely
accidental, but one which could not possibly have prejudiced
the appellee. It was held by this court in the case of Unsted
States v Curry, 6 IHow 106, 111, and Trqpp v Santa Rosa
Street Railroad,144 U S. 126, that service of a citation on appeal upon the solicitor m the court below was good, upon the
ground that no attorney or solicitor can withdraw his name
after he has once entered it without the leave of the court,
and while his name continues on the record the adverse party
has the right to treat him as the authorized attorney or solicitor, and service of notice .upon him is as valid as upon the
party himself. That even after the case is finally decided
the court will not permit an attorney who has appeared at the
trial to withdraw his name, and thus to embarrass and impede
the administration of justice. While it does not follow that
the attorney or solicitor in the court below is presumed to
continue as such, after the docketing of the case in this court,
the fact that Mr. Root had charge of the case in the Circuit
Court might have induced the counsel, who entered his appearance in this court, to believe that it was authorized by
him. As the petition was signed and sworn to by the appellant in person, there can be no claim that the appeal was
taken without authority
2. The second ground is that the appeal bond is defective,
in failing to mention the term at which the decree was ren-

DAVIS v. WAKELEE.
Opinion of the Court.

dered. This ground is also insufficient. To a person reading
the bond, there could be no mistaking the identity of the
decree appealed from. The bond is properly entitled m the
cause, the name of the court is correctly given, and there is
nothing to indicate that a decree had been rendered in any
other cause between the same parties m that court. Of a
similar mistake it was said by the Chief Justice in New
OrleansInsurance Co. v. Albro Co., 112 U. S. 506, 507 "1The
better practice undoubtedly is to specify the term in describing the judgment, but the omission of such a means of identification is not necessarily fatal, and certainly, before dismissing
a case on that account, opportunity should be given to furnish
new security "1
3. The facts of this case are not complicated, nor its merits
difficult to understand. Henry P Wakelee held six promissory notes, executed by Davis, in August and September,
1869. On September 30, 1869, Davis was adjudicated a bankrupt upon his own petition, in the District Court of California,
and in July, 1873, Wakelee applied for and was granted leave
to reduce his claim to judgment in the state court. On July
19, 1873, Wakelee brought suit in the District Court of the
Fifteenth Judicial District of California, and obtained a judgment in the following November, upon a service by publication only, in the sum of $22,760.26 in gold. As Davis, who
then lived in New York, was never served with process, and
never appeared in the action, such judgment was undoubtedly
void. Pennoyer v. Nqf, 95 U. S. '714.
Subsequently, and in December, 1875, Davis filed his petition for discharge, and Wakelee filed specifications of opposition thereto, which Davis moved to dismiss upon the ground
that Wakelee had reduced his claim to judgment, since the
commencement of the bankruptcy proceedings, that such
judgment was in full force, and (argumentatively) would be
unaffected by the discharge. The court took this view, cancelled the proofs of debt, and dismissed the specifications of
opposition to his discharge. Wakelee did not appeal. The
question before us is, whether Davis is now estopped to claim
that the judgment is void for want of jurisdiction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Defendant's principal contention is that a court of equity
has no jurisdiction of this case, not only because a bill will
not lie to enjoin a person from setting up a defence in an action
which may never be brought, but that the plaintiff may avail
herself of the alleged estoppel n pais in any action at law
she may choose to bring upon the California judgment. Bills
in equity to enjoin actions at law are not infrequently brought
by defendants in such actions to enable them to avail themselves of defences which would not be valid at law Examples of such bills are found in the case of -Drexel v Berney,
122 U S. 241, wherein a bill was sustained by a defendant in
an action at law to enjoin the plaintiff in such action from
setting up certain facts, of which it was claimed she was
equitably estopped to avail herself in such action, and in
the recent case of IFehrman v Conklin, 155 U S. 314, decided at the present term, in which a bill was sustained by a
defendant in ejectment, to enjoin the plaintiff from availing
himself of a deed, against the use of which he was held to be
equitably estopped. Analogous cases are those in which bills
have been sustained to enable a defendant to make use of an
equitable set-off. Bolling 1ill Co. v Ore and Steel Co., 152
U S. 596, Greene v -Darling,5 Mason, 201, 209, Howe v
Sheppard,2 Sumner, 409, Duncan v. Lyon, 3 Johns. Oh. 351,
-Dalev Cooke. 4 Johns. Oh. 11.
While our attention has not been called to any case wherein
a bill has been sustained in favor of aplantiff in a proposed
action at law, to enjoin the defendant from setting up a threatened defence, upon the ground that he is equitably estopped
from so doing, we know of no good reason why he should not
be permitted to do so, unless his remedy at law be plain, adequate, and complete. And therein lies the stress of defendant's
argument in this case.
We are not impressed with the strength of his position in
this connection, that this is a bill to declare future rights, within the principle of Cross v De Valle, 1 Wall. 1, wherein the
Circuit Court was held not to have erred in dismissing a crossbill, in which it was called upon to declare the fate of certain
contingent remainders. The cross-bill was held to have been

DAVIS v. WAKELEE.
Opinion of the Court.

properly dismissed, upon the ground that the court had no
power to decree = t/kesz, as to the future rights of parties not
before the court, or sn esse. The bill under consideration, however, does not involve questions of future rights, but of the
present right of a party to set up a defence in an action, which
may hereafter be brought against him.
Plaintiff's theory in this connection is thus stated in her bill,
that "under the law of the State of New York, where said
action is to be brought, in an action at law to recover the
amount due upon said judgment, the facts subsequent to such
judgment, as hereinbefore set forth, and constituting the
estoppels as herein claimed and insisted upon, may not be
pleaded in the plaintiff's complaint as or in aid of a cause of
action, but that such action must be brought upon such judgment alone, and that by the law of the said State of New York
it is necessary in an action at law upon such judgment to
allege in the complaint either the facts showing the jurisdiction of the court in which the judgment was entered, or that
the judgment was duly entered, and that unless this be done
the complaint would be dismissed on demurrer, that your
oratrlx is unable truthfully to allege in such complaint
such jurisdictional facts or that such judgment was duly entered, and that your oratrix is thus remediless in an action at
law," etc. In support of this contention we are cited to section 532 of the New York Code, which reads as follows "In
pleading a judgment, or other determination, of a court or
officer of special jurisdiction, it is not necessary to state the
facts conferring jurisdiction, but the judgment or determination may be stated to have been duly given or made. If
that allegation is controverted, the party pleading must,
on the trial, establish the facts conferring jurisdiction."
Appellant argues with great insistence that this refers only
to courts or officers "of special jurisdiction," and this
appears to be the implication from the language and the
punctuation, although this provision was taken from section
138 of the Code of Civil Procedure of 1847, which reads as
follows "1In pleading a judgment, or other determination of
a court, or officer of special jurisdiction," indicating that

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the words "special jurisdiction" referred only to the word

"officer."

The section, however, was probably intended to change the
common law in some particular, and as in declaring upon
judgments of courts of general jurisdiction, it was never
necessary to state the facts showing jurisdiction, while the
bontrary was true with regard to courts of special or limited
jurisdiction, (Turner v Rody, 3 N. Y 193,) the provision was
doubtless intended to apply to the latter class. But even
supposing it were sufficient to allege simply the recovery of
a judgment, the judgment record when put in evidence,
would show that personal service had never been obtained
upon the defendant, and the plaintiff would inevitably be
non-suited. Whether the plaintiff could go still farther, and
set up an invalid judgment and a subsequent estoppelbn vazs,
appears to be under the authorities in New York and other
States, a matter of considerable doubt. IWelland Canal Co. v
Hathaway,8 Wend. 480, Gaylordv -VanLoan, 15 Wend. 308,
Hostlerv Hays,3 California, 302, Bank of Wilm6ngton v Wollaston, 3 H=arr. (Del.) 90, Caldwell v Auger, 4 Minnesota, 217.
So, too, whether the section above quoted applies to judgments rendered in other States seems to be doubtful, the New
York authorities being divided upon the question.
In the uncertainty which appears to exist in that State, as
to whether a complaint setting forth all the facts would or
would not be demurrable, we think it may be fairly said that
the remedy at law is not so plain or clear as to oust a court of
equity of jurisdiction. It is a settled principle of equity
jurisprudence that, if the remedy at law be doubtful, a court
of equity will not decline cognizance of the suit. Boyce v
Grundy, 3 Pet. 210, Watson v Sutherland,5 Wall. 74, 79,
]?athbone v Warren, 10 Johns. 587, King v Baldwtn, 17
Johns. 384, Amerscan -nsurance Co. v Fisk, 1 Paige Ch. 90,
Teague v Russell, 2 Stew (Ala.) 450, Southampton Dock Co. v
Southampton HarbourBoard,L. R. 11 Eq. 254, Weymouth v
Boyer, 1 Yes. Jr. 416. Where equity can give relief plaintiff
ought not to be compelled to speculate upon the chance of
his obtaining relief at law

DAVIS v. WAKELEE.
Opinion of the Court.

4. If jurisdiction be conceded, there can be no doubt that
the court made a proper disposition of the case upon the facts.
Davis procured the dismissal of Wakelee's specifications of
opposition to his discharge, upon the ground that he had a
valid judgment against him which was still in full force, and
under the law would be unaffected by his discharge. Thp
court was of the same opinion, and dismissed the specifications. Wakelee acquiesced in this and did not appeal. It is
true that it had theretofore been held in California that a personal judgment obtained by service by publication was valid.
Hahn v Kelly, 3d: California, 391. Butt the case of Pennoyer
v Yeff, 95 U. S. 714, holding such judgments to be invalid,
was not decided until the following year. This case was afterwards followed in California in Belcher v Chambers, 53 California, 635. The weight of authority appears also to have been
that a judgment, obtained after the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings, merged the debt upon which it 'Was
obtained, and was unaffected by a subsequent discharge,
though this court subsequently held in Boynton v Ball, 121
U S 457, that a discharge in bankruptcy might be set up to
stay the execution of a judgment recovered against a bankrupt after the commencement of proceedings m bankruptcy
and before the discharge. But even if Davis had been mistaken as to his legal rights with respect to this judgment and
its subsequent discharge, his assertion that it was still of
record and in full force, is none the less binding upon him, in
view of Wakelee's acqmescence in the ruling of the court sustaming this contention.
It may be laid down as a general proposition that, where a
party assumes a certain position in a legal proceeding, and
succeeds in maintaining that position, he may not thereafter,
simply because his interests have changed, assume a contrary
position, especially if it be to the prejudice of the party who
has acquiesced in the position formerly taken by him. Thus
in Philadelphsa &c. Railroad v Howard, 13 How 307, 332,
333, 336, 337, where a corporation sought to defend against
an instrument by showing that the corporate seal was affixed
thereto without authority, and that it was not, sealed or
VOL. cLvi-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

unsealed, intended to be the deed of the corporation, evidence
was held to be admissible to show that, in a former suit, the
corporation had treated and relied upon the instrument as one
bearing the corporate seal. In delivering the opinion, the
court observes "The plaintiff was endeavoring to prove that
the paper declared on bore the corporate seal of the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Co. This being the fact to be
proved, evidence that the corporation, through its counsel,
bad treated the instrument as bearing the corporate seal, and
relied upon it as a deed of the corporation, was undoubtedly
admissible.
The defendant not only induced the
plaintiff to bring this action, but defeated the action in Cecil
County Court, by asserting and maintaining this paper to be
the deed of the company, and this brings the defendant
within the principle of the common law, that when a party
asserts what he knows is false, or does not know to be true, to
another's loss, and to his own gain, he is guilty of a fraud, a
fraud in fact, if he knows it to be false, a fraud in law, if he
does not know it to be true.
We are clearly of opinion, that the defendant cannot be heard to say, that what was
asserted on a former trial was false, even if the assertion was
made by mistake. If it was a mistake, of which there is no
evidence, it was one made by the defendant, of which he took
the benefit, and the plaintiff the loss, and it is too late to
correct it."

So in Railroad Company v .MeoCarthy,96 U S. 258, 267, it
appeared that defendant proved on the trial in the court below
that it was impossible to forward certain cattle on Sunday, for
want of cars, and it was held to be fairly presumed that no
other reason was given for the refusal at that time, and that
the railway company could not, in this court, set up the
illegality of such a shipment on the Sabbath, under the Sunday Law of West Virginia. In delivering the opinion of the
court Mr. Justice Swayne says "Where a party gives a
reason for his conduct, and decision touching anything
involved in a controversy, he cannot, after the litigation has
begun, change his ground, and put his conduct upon another
and different consideration. He is not permitted thus to mend

DAVIS v. WAKELEE.
Opinion of the Court.

his hold."

To the same effect are Railroad Co. v IVational

Bank, 102 U. S. 14, Danziels v Tearney, 102 U S. 415, 421,
Everett v Saltus, 15 Wend. 474, Holbrook v. Wight, 24 Wend.
169, Winter v Coit, 7 N. Y 288, .Mills v Hofman, 92 N. Y
181, Wood v. Seely, 32 N. Y 105, Ellis v White, 61 Iowa,
243, Test v Larsh, 76 Indiana, 452.
The case of Abbot v Wilbur, 22 La. Ann. 368, is directly in
point. This was a suit by Abbot for the purpose of annulling
a judgment obtained by Wilbur, upon the ground that such
judgment had been rendered by default, and without personal
service of citation upon the defendant. Wilbur pleaded m answer to this, and proved that, in a suit by Abbot against one
Borge, the latter had set up a reconventional demand or set-off
to a large amount, in answer to which Abbot set up that the
reconventional demand had already been reduced to judgment
against him in the suit which he now sought to annul for the
want of personal service. It was held that, Abbot having defeated a large demand against him by a plea that there was
pending against him a suit for the same demand, he was estopped to say that the assertion was false, and that he had
never been cited in such suit.
It is contrary to the first principles of justice that a man
should obtain an advantage over his adversary by asserting
and relying upon the validity of a judgment against himself,
and in a subsequent proceeding upon such judgment, claim
that it was rendered without personal service upon him.
Davis may possibly have been mistaken in his conclusion that
the judgment was valid, but he is conclusively presumed to
know the law, and cannot thus speculate upon his possible
ignorance of it. He obtained an order which he could only
have obtained upon the theory that the judgment was valid his statement that it was in force was equivalent to a waiver
of service, a consent that the judgment should be treated as
binding for the purposes of the motion, and he is now
estopped to take a different position.
There is another circumstance, however, which shows that
Davis did not act under a bona,§fde mistake of law, and that
he never intended to recognize the judgment as valid any

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

longer than it was for his interest to do so, since, immediately
after his discharge was obtained, he made application to the
state court in which the judgment had been rendered, for an
order to vacate it upon the ground that the judgment was
void by reason of the service of summons by publication, as
well as that it had been barred by the discharge in bankruptcy The court granted his motion to vacate his judgment
upon the latter ground, though this order was reversed on
appeal to the Supreme Court.
Our conclusion is that, as matter of law, appellant is now
estopped to claim that the judgment of the California court
was void for want of jurisdiction.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,

Afirmed.

CITIZENS'

SAVING AND LOAN ASSOCIATION v.
PERRY COUNTY

ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 56.

Argued and submitted March 29, 1694. -Decided

March 4, 1S95.

July 3, 1869, the qualified voters of Perry County Illinois, voted to subscribe to the capital stock of the Belleville & Southern Illinois Railroad and
to issue its bonds in payment thereof, conditioned that " no bonds should
beissued or stock subscribed until the railroad company should locate
their machine shops at Duquoin." In December, 1870, the county court
directed the bonds to be issued, and they were issued duly executed,
and were delivered to the company and by it put into circulation, but
the shops were never located at Duquoin. Held, In view of the legislation of Illinois reviewed in the opinion, and of the provisions in the
constitution of 1870, which came into force after the vote to issue the
bonds, but before their issue, that the county court by its order to issue
the bonds, and the county officers by issuing them, violated their duty
as prescribed by the statutes; and as the bonds contained no recital pre
cluding inquiry as to the performance of the condition upon which the
people voted in favor of their issue, it was open to the county to show

