OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

is void upon its face
to such instructions.

but the record contained no exception

2Hr W A. Henderson and Mr Leon Jourolomon for plain
tiffs in error.
-Mr lTr P
ashbu9'n and Mr Jerome Temleton for defendant in error.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE Errors are assigned to certain portions
of the charge to the jury in this case, but no exceptions were
preserved thereto, and no question otherwise raised for our
consideration. The judgment is, therefore,
Aflrmed.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE COMPANY v. BALTIMORE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
No. 828. Submitted January 21, 1895. -Decided

January 28, 1895.

St. Louts v. Western Unton Tel. Co., 148 U. S. 92, affirmed and applied to
this case.

THis was an action at law, brought by the city of Baltimore,
defendant in error, against The Postal Telegraph Cable Company, plaintiff in error, a corporation created under the laws
of the State of New York, in the Court of Common Pleas of
Baltimore City, a court of original common law jurisdiction,
to recover the sum of $1018.00, with interest from the 15th
day of June, 1893, the same being an annual rental fee for
the use of the streets of Baltimore, of $2.00 per pole, for 50a
telegraph poles, which were owned by the plaintiff in error,
and located in and occupying a portion of the public streets
of Baltimore. The rental fee was the amount prescribed by
Ordinance No. 86 of 1893, to be paid by all compames which

INRE CHAPMAN, Petitioner.
Syllabus.

owned and had located in the streets of Baltimore similar
poles and similarly used. Judgment below m plaintiff's favor,
which judgment was sustained by the Court of Appeals of the
State of Maryland. A writ of error being sued out to the latter
judgment, the defendant in error moved to dismiss or affirm
it on the ground, among others, that "the ordinance in
question was based on and passed after the opinion of the
Supreme Court of the United States was delivered in St. Iouzs
v. Western Unzon Tel. Co., 148 U. S. 92 and 149 U. S. 465, and
upon the strength of that case the defendant in error relied
m the Court of Appeals of Maryland, and now relies in this
court."
.r

Thomas G Hayes and Mr William S. B yan, J.,for

the motion.
3Xr George T.Bates opposing.
THE Cmx'F JusTICE

The judgment is affirmed upon the

authority of St. Louw v. Western Unwn Tel. Co., 148
U. S. 92.

In re CHAPMAN, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted January22, 1895. -Decided

February 4, 1895.

C., being summoned before a committee of the Senate of the United States
and questioned there as to certain transactions, declined to answer the
questions upon the grounds that they related to his private business,
and that they were not authorized by the resolution appointing the committee. He was thereupon indicted in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia under the provisions in Rev. Stat. §§ 102, 103, 104. He
demurred to the indictment, and, the demurrer being overruled, an appeal
was taken to the District Court of Appeals, where the indictment was
sustained as valid, and the case remanded. He then applied to this court
for permission to file a petition for the issue of a writ of habeas corpus.
Held,

