HUDSON v. PARKER.

277

6
Statement of the Case.

HUDSON v. PARKER.
ORIGINAL.

No.9.

Original. Submitted January 7, 1895.-Decided February 4,1895.

Awrit of error, under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517 § 5, from this court
to a Circuit or District Court of the United States, in a case of conviction of an infamous and not capital crime, may be allowed, the citation
signed, and a supersedeas granted, by any justice of this court, although
not assigned to the particular circuit; and the same justice may order
the prisoner, after citation served, to be admitted to bail, by the judge
before whom the conviction was had, upon giving bond in a certain sum,
in proper form and with sufficient sureties; and if that judge declines
so to admit to bail, because in his opinion the order was without authority of law, and the bond if given would be void, he may be compelled to
do so by this court by writ of mandamus.

THIS was a petition for a writ of mandamus to the Honorable Isaac 0. Parker, the District Judge of the United States
for the Western District of Arkansas, to command him to
admit the petitioner to bail on a writ of error from this court,
dated August 14, 1894, upon a judgment rendered by the
District Court for that district at May term, 1894, to wit, on
July 21, 1894, adjudging him, upon conviction by a jury, to
be guilty of an assault with intent to kill, and sentencing him
to imprisonment for the term of four years at hard labor at
Brooklyn in the State of iNew York.
The petition alleged that Mr. Justice Brewer, the justice
of tins court assigned to the eighth circuit, m which the District Court was held, being absent from that circuit and from
the city of Washington, the petitioner, on August 14, 1894,
presented to Mr. Justice White, at chambers in this city, a
petition for a writ of error upon that judgment, and for a
supersedeas and bail pending the writ of error, and that Mr.
Justice White signed and endorsed upon that petition the
following order

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

"Writ of error, to operate as a supersedeas, allowed, returnable according to law, the defendant to furnish bond in the
sum of five thousand dollars, conditioned according to law,
subject to the approval of the District Judge.
"E. D. WHITE,
"Justice Supreme Court of the United States.
"Washington, August 14, 1894."
The petition for a mandamus further alleged that on Septeinber 3, 1894, after the writ of error had been issued, and
the citation served upon the United States, the petitioner presented to the District Judge in open court, and requested
him to approve, a bond in the sum of $5000, executed by
himself, as principal, and by four persons, residents of the
Western District of Arkansas, as sureties, who (as appeared
by their affidavits annexed to the bond) were worth in
their own right, over and above their debts and liabilities
and the property exempt by law from execution, the sum of
$17,500.
This bond, which was filed with the petition for a mandamus, was dated August 27, 1894, recited that the petitioner
had sued out a writ of error from this court, upon which a
citation had been issued and served upon the 'United States,
and that the petitioner had, by order of Mr. Justice White,
been admitted to bail, pending the writ of error, in the sum
of $5000, and was conditioned that the petitioner should
prosecute his writ of error with effect and without delay, and
should abide the judgment of this court, and, if this court
should reverse the judgment of the District Court, appear in
that court until discharged according to law
The petition for a mandamus further alleged that, upon
the presentation of this bond to the District Judge, he
refused to approve it, or to discharge the petitioner, and
made and signed an order, which, after reciting the application to him for the approval of the bond, and the order of
Mr. Justice White, proceeded and concluded as follows
"It is found by the judge of this court, that the above
order is made without authority of law, and is therefore
invalid, and that the bond approved by him in obedience to

HUDSON v. PARKER.
Statement of the Case.

it would be null and void, and that there would be no obligation of the sureties to have the principal in court when and
where he is required by the terms of the bond to appear, nor
would there be any obligation resting on the principal to
appear as required by the terms of the bond.
"For the above reasons, the judge of this court refuses to
approve the bond tendered by defendant, and further, it is
noted that defendant has made no legal tender of bail.
"I. C. PARIUR,

"'United States District Judge."
The petition for a writ of mandamus also alleged that the
writ of error had been duly entered and Wvas pending in this
court, and the petitioner was still confined in prison at Fort
Smith in the State of Arkansas, and prayed that the order
of 'Mr. Justice White might be affirmed by this court, and
the District Judge be ordered to approve the bond and discharge the petitioner, or that his bond might be approved by
this court -and the petitioner discharged, and for- all other
proper relief.
This court gave leave to file the petition, and granted a
rule to show cause why a peremptory mandamus should not
issue as prayed for.
The District Judge, in Ins return to the rule, stated that,
on August 6, 1891, (as appeared by the record,) he ordered
that, upon the filing of an assignment of errors, the clerk
issue a writ of error taking the case to this court, but that,
at the request of the petitioner's counsel, stating that they
had not determined whether they would take the case to this
court, the writ of error was not immediately issued by the
clerk, and that the application to Mr. Justice White for a
writ of error, and for supersedeas and bail, was made before
the writ of error was issued, that, when Mr. Justice White's
order was made, there had been no citation served, but (as
the record showed) the citation, signed by him on August 15,
1891, was not served until August 21, 1894, and that, after
Mr. Justice White's order, "the petitioner, with others, was
tried and convicted of conspiracy to run away the principal
witness against him in the above entitled cause, that one of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Petitioner.

the conspirators gave evidence against him, and that he is
now in jail at Fort Smith, Arkansas, on that charge."
The return also set forth at length various reasons of law
why a writ of mandamus should not issue, which may be
briefly stated as follows
First. That the petitioner had a clear, adequate, and complete remedy, by applying to Mr. Justice Brewer, the justice
assigned to the eighth circuit, for the approval of the bond.
Second. That under paragraph 2 of Rule 36 of this court,
the matter of admitting to bail and approving the bond
was a matter requi~lng the exercise of judicial power and discretion, involving the decision of questions of law and the
ascertainment of facts, and could not be controlled by writ
of mandamus.
Third. That the bond, if given, would be void, because by
paragraph 2 of Rule 36 a person convicted and sentenced for
crime could only be admitted to bail after citation served.
Fourth. That the bond would be void, because, by paragraph 2 of Rule 36, Mr. Justice White, not being the justice
of this court assigned to the eighth circuit, (according to the
last allotment, made April 2, 1894, 152 U. S. 711,) nor a judge
of the Circuit Court of that circuit, nor the district judge of
any district in that circuit, had no authority to make the
order.
Fifth. That paragraph 2 of Rule 36 was void, for want of
power in this court, either by the common law, or under any
act of Congress, to order bail to be taken after conviction and
sentence of such a crime as that of which the petitioner had
been convicted.
The District Judge, in concluding his return, submitted the
questions involved to the judgment of this court; stated that
he would, as a matter of course, enforce by order any decision
given by this court in the premises, and prayed to be dismissed without day
The petitioner demurred to the return.
-H1. Cravens and Mr A. H. Garland for the
.
Willt,
petitioner, submitted on their brief.

HUDSON v. PARKER.
Opinion of the Court.

Jfr Solicitor General and Judge Isaac C. Parker m person,
opposing, submitted on their briefs.
MR. JsiC GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
By express acts of Congress, beginning with the first organization of the judicial system of the United States, this court
and the Circuit and District Courts are empowered to issue
all writs, not specially provided for by statute, which may
be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions,
and agreeable to the principles and usages of law Act of
September 24, 1789, c. 20, § 14, 1 Stat. 81, 82, Rev Stat.
g 716, Stockton v Bsshop, 2 How '74, Eardema v Anderson, 4 How 640, Eaiparte _filwaukee Railroad,5 Wall. 188Under the first judiciary act, this court had power "to make
and establish all necessary rules for the orderly conducting of
business" in all the courts of the United States. Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, § 17, 1 Stat. 83. And successive statutes recognized its power to make rules, not inconsistent with
the laws of the United States, prescribing the forms of writs
and other process, at common law, as well as in equity or
admiralty, in those courts. Acts of May 8, 1792, c. 36, § 2,
1 Stat. 276, May 19, 1828, c. 68, §§ 1, 3, 4 Stat. 281,
August 23, 18412, c. 188, § 6, 5 Stat. 518, Wayman v
Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 27-29, Bank of United States v
Halstead, 10 Wheat. 51, Beers v lHaughton, 9 Pet. 329, 360,
]Yard v Chamberlazn, 2 Black, 430, 436. Since the act of
June 1, 1872, c. 255, § 5, indeed, the practice, pleadings, and
forms and modes of proceeding, in actions at law in the
Circuit and District Courts of the United States, are required
to conform, as near as may be, to those existing at the time
in like causes in the courts of record of the State within
which they are held, any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding. 17 Stat. 197, IRev Stat. § 914. But this act
does not include the manner of bringing cases from a lower
court of the United States to this court. Chateaugay Co.,
petitioner, 128 -U. S. 544, Fishhunr. v. Chicago &c. Railway,

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

137 U S. 60. Under section 917 of the Revised Statutes,
therefore, by which (reenacting to this extent the provision
of the act of 1842) "the Supreme Court shall have power to
prescribe, from time to time, and in any manner not inconsistent with any law of the United States, the forms of writs
and other process," this court has power to regulate the
manner of proceeding, or "mode of process," in taking bail,
upon writs of error from this court to the Circuit Court or
District Court, in civil or criminal cases. Act of September
2, 1789, c. 20, § 33, 1 Stat. 91, Rev Stat. § 1014, Beers v
ffaughton, above cited, United States v KEnght, 14 Pet. 301,
Unzted States v Rundlett, 2 Curtis, 41.
By section 4 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, the review,
by appeal, writ of error, or otherwise, of judgments of the
Circuit Courts or District Courts, can be had only in this
court, or in the Circuit Courts of Appeals, according to the
provisions of this act. By section 5, "appeals or writs of
error may be taken from" the Circuit Courts or District
Courts "direct to" this court "in cases of conviction of a
capital or otherwise infamous crime," as well as in certain
other classes of cases. 26 Stat. 827. And by section 11, "all
provisions of law, now in force, regulating the methods and
system of review, through appeals or writs of error, shall
regulate the methods and system of appeals and writs of error
provided for in this act in respect of the Circuit Courts of
Appeals, including all provisions for bonds or other securities
to be required and taken on such appeals and writs of error."
26 Stat. 829. But as to the methods and system of review,
through appeals or writs of error, including the citations,
supersedeas, and bond or other security, in cases, either civil
or criminal, brought to this court from the Circuit Court or
the District Court, Congress made no provision in this act,
evidently considering those matters to be covered and regulated by the provisions of earlier statutes forming parts of
one system.
By those statutes, upon writs of error from this court to
the Circuit Courts or District Courts of the United States,
as well as upon writs of error from this court to the courts of

HUDSON v. PARKER.
Opinion of the Court.

the several States, any justice of this court -not

necessarily

the justice assigned to the circuit in which the other court
held -may, in or out of court, allow the writ of error, sign
-is
the citation, take the requisite security for the prosecution of
the writ of error, and grant a supersedeas when the writ of
error does not of itself operate as a stay of proceedings, as
it does if filed and security given within sixty days after the
.judgment complained of. IRev Stat. §§ 999, 1000, 1002, 1003,
1007, Sage v Railroad Co., 96 U. S.712, Hudgvns v .Hemp,
18 How 530, Peugh v Dams, 110 U S.227.
In Claasen's case, 140 U. S.200, it was adjudged, upon full
-consideration, that by the act of 1891 a writ of error from
this court to the Circuit Court, in the case of a conviction of a
,crime infamous but not capital, was a matter of right, without giving any security, that the citation might be signed by
.a justice of this court, under lRev Stat. § 999, that a supersedeas might be granted, not only by this court, under § 716,
but by a justice thereof, under § 1000, and that, if the justice
signing the citation directed that it should operate. as a supersedeas, the supersedeas might be obtained by merely serving
the writ within the time prescribed in § 1007. Mr. Justice
Blatchford, in delivering the unanimous judgment of the court
accordingly, said "1To remove all doubt on the subject, however, in future cases, we have adopted a general rule, which is
promulgated as Rule 36 of this court, and which embraces,
also, the power to admit the defendant to bail after the citation is served." 140 U S.205, 207, 208.
By that rule, which was promulgated May 11, 1891, the
same day on which that judgment was delivered, "An appeal
or a writ of error from a circuit court or a district court direct
to this court," in the cases provided for in sections 5 and 6 of
the act of 1891, "may be allowed, in term time or in vacation,
by any justice of this court, or by any circuit judge within
his circuit, or by any district judge within his district, and
the proper security be taken and the citation signed by him,
and he may also grant a supersedeas and stay of execution
or of proceedings, pending such writ of error or appeal."
And by paragraph 2 of the same rule, "Where such writ

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of error is allowed in the case of a conviction of an infamous
crime, or in any other criminal case in which it will lie under
said sections 5 and 6, the Circuit Court, or District Court,
or any justice or judge thereof, shall have power, after the
citation is served, to admit the accused to bail in such amount
as may be fixed." 139 U S. 706.
This court cannot, indeed, by rule, enlarge or restrict its
own inherent jurisdiction and powers, or those of the other
courts of the United States, or of a justice or judge of either,
under the Constitution and laws of the United States. Poultney v la Fayette, 12 Pet. 472, The St. Lawrence, 1 Black,
522, 526, The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 576, 579. Nor has.
it assumed to do so.
On the contrary, the rule in question was adopted by this
court under and pursuant to its power to make rules, prescribing the forms of writs and process, and regulating the practice
upon appeals or writs of error, and was so framed as to give
effect to the appellate jurisdiction conferred by the act of
1891, in the manner most consistent with the provisions of
the various acts of Congress concerning the same matter.
There can be no doubt, therefore, that under the acts of
Congress, the decision of this court in Claase 's case, above
cited, and the first paragraph of Rule 36, Mr. Justice White,
although not the justice of this court assigned to the eighth
circuit, was authorized to allow the writ of error, to operate
as a supersedeas, and to sign the citation.
The next question is of the validity of his order, so far as regards admitting the prisoner to bail pending the writ of error.
Recurring once more to Rule 36, and to the decision in
Claasen's case, which were considered and promulgated together, and mutually serve to explain each other, the matter
stands thus The first paragraph of the rule, embracing all
cases, civil or criminal, of which this court has appellate jurisdiction under the act of 1891, provides that the writ of error
may be allowed, in term time or vacation, "and the proper
security be taken," the citation signed, and a supersedeas
granted, "by any justice of this court." In Claasen's case, it
was held that, in the case of an infamous crime, the writ of

HUDSON v. PARKER.

2l85'

Opinion of the Court.

error was a matter of right, and that no security, such as is
necessary in a civil case, was required. The only "proper
.security," then, in a criminal case, is security for the appear.ance of a prisoner admitted to bail. Within the very terms
of the rule, therefore, any justice of this court, although not
-assigned to the particular circuit, would seem to have the
power to permit bail to be taken. But the power rests upon
broader grounds.
The statutes of the United States have been framed upon
the theory that a person accused of crime shall not, until he
has been finally adjudged guilty iii the court of last resort, be
absolutely compelled to undergo imprisonment or punishment,
but may be admitted to bail, not only after arrest and before
trial, but after conviction and pending a writ of error.
The statutes as to bail upon arrest and before trial provide
that "bail may be admitted" upon all arrests in capital cases,
and "shall be admitted" upon all arrests in other criminal
cases, and may be taken in capital cases by this court, or by
a justice thereof, or by a circuit court, a circuit judge or a
district judge, and in other criminal cases by any justice or
judge of the United States or other magistrate named. Rev.
Stat. §§ 1014-1016.
Under the act of March 3, 1879, c. 176, upon writs of error
from the Circuit Court to review judgments of the District
Court upon convictions in criminal cases, the justice of this
court assigned to the circuit, or the circuit judge - that'is to
say, any member of the appellate court, except the district
judge, presumably the judge who rendered the judgment
below - might allow the writ, to operate as a supersedeas,
and might take bail for the defendant's appearance in the
Circuit Court. 20 Stat. 354, Unted States v WThiFttr, 11
Bissell, 356. And upon a writ of error from this court to the
highest court of a State to review a decision against a right
claimed under the Constitution and laws of the United States,
and which lies both in criminal and in civil cases, and operates
as a supersedeas under the same circumstances in the one as
in the other, bail may be taken pending the writ of error,
but, because of the relation between the two governments, in

"286

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the court of the State only, it being enacted by the act of
July 13, 1866, c. 184, § 69, in accordance with the practice
previously prevailing in some States, that the plaintiff in
error, if charged with an offence bailable by the laws of the
State, shall not be released from custody until final judgment upon the writ of error, "or until a bond, with sufficient
sureties, in a reasonable sum, as ordered and approved by the
state court, shall be given," or, if the offence is not so bailable, until such final judgment. 14 Stat. 172, Rev Stat. §
1017, Cohens v T7irgqnta,6 Wheat. 264, Worcester v Georgia,
6 Pet. 515, 537, 562, 567, B'yan v Bates, 12 Allen, 201. By
these statutes, bail after conviction was provided for in every
class of writs of error ,pending in the courts of the United
States in cases of bailable offences, for, when they wer&
enacted, no writ of error lay from this court to the Circuit
Court or District Court in any criminal case.
By the act of February 6, 1889, c. 113, § 6, it was enacted
that final judgments of any court of the United States upon
conviction of a crime punishable with death might, upon the
application of the defendant, be reviewed by this court "upon
a writ of error, under such rules and regulations as said court
may prescribe;" and that every such writ of error should " be
allowed as of right, and without the requirement of any security for the prosecution of the same, or for costs," and should
"during its pendency operate as a stay of proceedings upon
the judgment, in respect of which it is sued out," and might
be immediately filed in this court, but should not be sued out
or granted, except upon a petition filed, with the clerk of the
court in which the trial was had, during the same term, or
within sixty days after its expiration. 25 Stat. 656.
Although that act expressly recognized the power of this
court to make rules regulating the proceedings upon writs of
error in capital cases, yet, as by its terms the writ was to be
allowed as of right, without requiring any security, and was
of itself to operate as a stay of proceedings, no rule upon the
subject was considered necessary, and none was made by this
court. It can hardly be doubted, however, that Congress intended that the allowance of the writ of error and stay of

HUDSON v. PARKER.
Opinion of the Court.

proceedings, while suspending the execution of the sentence,
should neither have the effect of discharging the prisoner from
custody, nor of preventing his being admitted to bail, upon
sufficient cause shown, pending the writ of error, and, no
special provision upon the subject of bail in a capital case
after conviction having been made by act of Congress or rule
of court, it would seem that it might be taken by the justice.
or judge who allowed the writ of error.
But, however it may be in a capital case, it is quite clear,.
in view of all the legislation on the subject of bail, that Congress must have intended that under the act of 1891, in cases of
crimes not capital, and therefore bailable of right before conviction, bail might be taken, upon writ of error, by order of
the proper court, justice or judge. And we are of opinion
that any justice of this court, having power, by the acts of
Congress, to allow the writ of error, to issue the citation, to
take the security required by law, and to grant a supersedeas,
has the authority, as incidental to the exercise of this power,
to order the plaintiff in error to be admitted to bail, independently of any rule of court upon the subject, and that this.
authority is recognized m the first paragraph of Rule 36.
Having the authority to order bail to be taken, the same.
justice might either himself approve the bail bond, or he
might order that such a bond should be taken in an amount.
fixed by him, the form of the bond and the sufficiency of the
sureties to be passed upon by the court whose judgment was.
to be reviewed, or by a judge of that court, or he might leave
the whole matter of bail to be dealt with by such court or judge.
Upon a writ of error in a civil case, the requisite security is.
ordinarily taken by the justice or judge who allows the writ.
and signs the citation. Jerome v 1cCarter, 21 Wall. 17.
But where the bond taken is insufficient in law, this court, in
the exercise of its inherent jurisdiction as a court of error,.
may direct that the writ be dismissed, unless the plaintiff in
error gives security sufficient in this respect, to be taken and
approved by any justice or judge who is authorized to allowthe writ of error and citation. Catlett v Brodie, 9 Wheat553, 555, O'Reilly v EMrmngto, 96 U. S. 124.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

This court, in the lawful exercise of its power to prescribe
the forms of process and to regulate the practice upon writs
-of error, has said, in paragraph 2 of IRule 36, that, in the case
•of a conviction of an infamous crime, "the Circuit Court, or
District Court, or any justice or judge thereof, shall have
power, after the citation is served, to admit the accused to
bail in such amount as may be fixed."
The necessary consequence is that that part of the order of
Mr. Justice White, which required "the defendant to furnish
bond in the sum of five thousand dollars, conditioned according
to law, subject to approval by the District Judge," was a valid
exercise of his authority to order bail, in an amount fixed by
him, to be taken by the District Judge, leaving the form of
the bond, and the sufficiency of the sureties, to be passed upon
by the latter.
A writ of error, allowed out of court, is neither considered
as brought, even for the purpose of computing the time of
limitation of suing it out, nor does it operate as a supersedeas,
until it has been filed in the clerk's office of the court to which
it is addressed. Credit Co. v Arkansas Railway, 128 U S.
258, 260, and cases cited, Foster v Kansas, 112 U S. 201.
By the order of Mr. Justice White, the allowance of the writ
of error, to operate as a supersedeas, was not to take effect
until the approval of the bond by the District Judge, and
when the bond was presented to the District Judge for
approval, the writ of error had been filed in the clerk's office
of the District Court, and the citation had been issued and
served. The objection that the petitioner could only be admitted to bail after citation served has therefore no application
to this case.
The discretion of a judge, indeed, in a matter entrusted by
law to his judicial determination, cannot be controlled by writ
of mandamus. But if he declines to exercise his discretion, or
to act at all, when it is his duty to do so, a writ of mandamus
may be issued to compel him to act. For instance, a writ of
mandamus will lie to compel a judge to settle and sign a bill
of exceptions, although not to control his discretion as to the
frame of the bill. Ex yarte Bradstreet,4 Pet. 102, Ex parte

HUDSON v. PAR'KER.
Opinion of the Court.

Crane, 5 Pet. 190, Chateaugay Co., yetitwner, 128 U S. 544,
557. See also Exp arte -Morgan, 114 U. S. 174, Ex, yarte
Parker, 120 U S. 737, Parker, pettztwner, 131 U. S. 221,
Virgmsa v Paul,148 U. S. 107, 123, 124.
If, as suggested in the return, the petitioner is also in
custody under a subsequent conviction for another offence,
that custody will not be affected by admitting him to bail
in this case.
Were the question here only as to what persons should be
accepted as sureties on the bond, or as to their sufficiency,
there would be no ground for issuing a writ of mandamus.
Exparte Taylor, 14 How 3, Exparte .Milwaukee Railroad,
5 Wall. 188.. But in the case before us, the District Judge
has not exercised any discretion in the matter, but has declined
to act at all, and has refused to approve the bond, solely because, in his own words, "it is found by" him that the order of
Mr. Justice White was made without authority of law, and
that the bond, if approved, would be void.
As the District Judge, in so refusing to approve the bond,
appears to have acted under a misunderstanding of the powers
of this court and of its justices, and of his own duty in the
premises, and as in his return he expresses his readiness to
enforce any decision of this court, it appears to us to be more
just to him, as well as more consistent with the maintenance
of the rightful authority of this court, to sustain this petition,
and enable bail to be taken before him in accordance with the
order heretofore made, than to dismiss these proceedings, and
to deal with the matter over his head, as it were, by having
the petitioner admitted to bail by this court, or by the justice
thereof assigned to the eighth circuit.
We do not anticipate that there will be any occasion for the
actual issue of a writ of peremptory mandamus, but, should
it become necessary to do so in order to secure the rights of
the petitioner, his counsel may move for the writ at any time.
The present order will be
Petdtioner entitled to writ of mandamus to the .Dstrmt
Judge to admit the petitioner to bail on h g.&vng bond
snmproperform and with suzfloent sureties.
19

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion

MR. JUSTicE BREWER,

Brewer, Brown, JJ.

with whom concurred M-R.

JUsTIoE

BRowN, dissenting.
I am unable to concur in all the views expressed in the
opinion of the court. Agreeing that this court has power to
admit to bail in criminal cases pending proceedings in error, I
reach this conclusion in a different way, and deduce the right
to let to bail solely from the grant of jurisdiction over the
proceedings in error. As said in E'zparte Dyson, 25 Mississippl, 356, 359 "The right of a prisoner to bail, after conviction, is not regulated by the Constitution or by statute, and
is governed by the rules and practice of the common law It
seems to be fully and clearly established that the Court of
King's Bench could bail in all cases whatsoever, according to
the principles of the common law, the action of that court
not being controlled by the various statutes enacted on the
subject of bail, but regulated and governed entirely by a
sound judicial discretion on the subject. 2 Hale P 0. 129,
4 Co. Inst. 71, 4 Coim. Dig. 6, tit. (f. 3;) 1 Bacon's Ab. 483493, 2 Hawk. P C. 170, Cowp. 333. In the exercise of
this discretion the court in some instances admitted to bail,
even after verdict, in cases of felony, whenever a special
motive existed to induce the court to grant it. 1 Bac. Abr.
489-490, 2 Hawk. P C. 170."
So, when jurisdiction is given over proceedings in error in
criminal cases, that jurisdiction carries with it, by implication,
the power to make all orders necessary and proper not merely
for bringing up the record, but also for the custody of the
defendant pending the hearing of his allegations of error.
But that jurisdiction is vested in this court as a court, and not
in any single justice.
There have been five separate enactments of Congress in
reference to the letting to bail and the review of judgments in
criminal cases. First, for bail before trial. (Secs. 1014, 1015,
and 1016, Rev Stat.) These sections name the judicial
officers by whom bail may be taken. Second, in respect to
judgments in criminal cases in the state courts, brought here
on error. (Sec. 1017, Rev Stat.) In this section there is

HUDSON v. PA2RKER.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, Brown, JJ.

specific provision in reference to the matter of bail. Third,
the act of March 3, 1879, c. 176, providing for a review by the
Circuit Court of judgments in the District Court in crimnal
cases. 20 Stat. 351. In this act express authority is given for
bail, and the officers named by whom such bail may be taken.
Fourth, the act of February 6, 1889, c. 113, 25 Stat. 655, grantmg a writ of error from this court to bring up the judgments
of any inferior courts of the United States in capital cases.
Nothing is said in this act in respect to the matter of bail,
but the allowance of the writ is made to operate as a stay of
proceedings. Fifth, the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat.
826, - the act under which this controversy has arisen-which
provides for a review by this court of the final judgments of
Circuit or District Courts in cases of "convictions of capital
or otherwise infamous crimes." In this statute also there is
no mention of bail.
I fail to appreciate the argument that because Congress has
made specific provision for bail in criminal cases before conviction, it is to be assumed that it intended that bail should
likewise be allowed in all cases after conviction, or that,
because in two statutes, contemplating review of judgments
in criminal cases, it made like specific provision in respect to
letting to bail, it intended the same grant of power in two
other and later statutes granting a right of review- in which
it said nothing in respect to bail. In other words, an omission
apparently made ex sndustrw implies the same intention as
an express provision fully stated. On the contrary, as I
understand it, the logic of all differences m substantial provisions between earlier and later statutes is indicative of
difference rather than identity of purpose.
"Indeed, the words of a statute, when unambiguous, are
the true guide to the legislative will. That they differ from
the words of a prior statute on the same subject, is an intimation that they are to have a diferent and not the same construction." Rich v Xeyser, 54 Penn. St. 86, 89.
Where the later of two acts upon limited partnerships
omitted the infliction, prescribed by the earlier, of a penalty
for the omission of certain matters required by both, the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, Brown, JJ.

said "We must presume that the [earlier] act
and
the decisions under it were well known to the law makers at
the time the [later] act
was passed. The omission
to prescribe the penalty
is good reason for concluding that no such liability was intended." -Eliotv. Himrod,
108 Penn. St. 569, 573. See Endlich on the Interpretation
of Statutes, § 384.
Neither can I gather from the legislation authorizing bail
before trial, or that provision for bail in cases brought to this
court from conviction in state tribunals, or that authorizing
bail in cases taken from the District to the Circuit Court, the
evidence of a settled policy on the part of Congress that bail
should be allowed in all cases, capital or otherwise, brought
here on error from a final judgment of the Circuit or District
Court. Indeed, with reference to this matter of policy it
was well said in Hdden v The Collector, 5 Wall. 107, 111
"What is termed the policy of the government with reference
to any particular legislation is generally a very uncertain
thing, upon which all sorts of opinion, each variant from the
other, may be formed by different persons. It is a ground
much too unstable upon which to rest the judgment of the
court in the interpretation of statutes."
Nevertheless, I agree with the majority, that this court has
power to prescribe by rule all matters of detail in respect to
procedure which are not in terms fixed or denied by statute.
it has exercised such power and passed a rule concerning the
letting to bail in which, as I have hitherto supposed, it determined the whole matter.
It is idle to say that there is no difference between the supersedeas of a judgment and the letting to bail. When a sentence
of death is stayed by this court, it does not follow, as a matter
of course, that the party sentenced is to be discharged from
custody and permitted to go where he pleases, and the same
is true in case of a sentence to confinement and hard labor in
the penitentiary The stay of execution simply prevents the
hanging or the removal of the party to the penitentiary But
it is unnecessary in view of the language of this court to make
any argument to show that the two things are different. In

HUDSONT v. PARKER.
Dissenting Opimon. Brewer, Brown, JJ.

In re Cleasen, 140 U. S. 200, 208, the court said "We hold,
therefore, that the allowance of the suyersedeas in the present
case was proper, and we deny the motion to set it aside.
To remove all doubt on the subject, however, in future cases,
we have adopted a general rule, which is promulgated as Rule
36 of this court, (see 139 U S. 706,) and which embraces, also,
the power to admit the defendant to bail after the citation
served."
The rule there indicated was put into two paragraphs, one
of which provides among other things for a supersedeas and
the other for admitting to bail. This court then, certainly,
understood that there was a difference between the two, and
did not add a second paragraph to regulate a matter which
was fully regulated by the first. It is also true that in the
first paragraph provision is made for the taking of security,
but taking security is not technically letting to bail, and the
provision in reference to security evidently refers to those cases
in which the sentence of the trial court directs the payment
of a fine. In respect to such a sentence, "security" is an apt
and suitable word.
Now, the idea of a rule is that it makes full provision for
everything within the scope of its general purpose, and when
this court, by the second paragraph, named certain judicial
officers as the ones to ,admit to bail, it was a declaration, first,
that this court had power to pass such a rule, and, second,
upon the principle, expressw unzus exclusso altermus, that it
had named therein all the judicial officers who were to exercise
that particular authority There is in its language nothing to
suggest that it was intended to be cumulative, or that in
addition to certain officers given by law the right to admit to
bail, other officers were by it given the like power. It is well
to note the very words of the rule
"1. An appeal or a writ of error from a Circuit Court or a
District Court direct to this court, in the cases provided for in
sections 5 and 6 of the act entitled 'An act to establish
Circuit Courts of Appeals, and to define and regulate in
certain cases the jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States, and for other purposes,' approved March 3, 1891, may

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Brown, JJ.

be allowed, in term time or in vacation, by any Justice of this
court, or by any Circuit Judge within his circuit, or by any
District Judge within his district, and the proper security be
taken and the citation signed by him, and he may also grant
a supersedeas and stay of execution or of proceedings, pending
such writ of error or appeal.
"2. Where such writ of error is allowed in the case of a
conviction of an infamous crime, or in any other criminal case
in which it will lie under said sections 5 and 6, the Circuit
Court or District Court, or any justice or judge thereof, shall
have power, after the citation is served, to admit the accused
to bail in such amount as may be fixed."
No one can read this rule, and particularly the second paragraph, without understanding that by it this court had named
the officers, and the only officers, who should have the power
to admit to bail. Certainly such has been the understanding
of bench and bar through the country
In Unstlec States v Simmons, 47 Fled. Rep. 723, 724,
Judge Benedict says "The rules of the Supreme Court of
the United States (Rule 36) permit persons convicted, when
they appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States, to be
admitted to bail, but leave the question of admitting to bail
to the discretion of the court below"
Can there be any doubt as to the meaning of the second
paragraph? It says "The Circuit Court or District Court,
or any justice or judge thereof." Surely, that does not mean
any Circuit Court or any District Court, or any justice or any
judge thereof, but the court in which the case was tried. If
it was intended by the second paragraph to give to any justice
of this court the power to admit to bail, why was not the
language of the first paragraph repeated, or a mere reference
made to the words of description therem 2 Why was the
careful language used which unquestionably limits to the judicial officers of the circuit in which the case was tried
It
says "any justice or judge thereof." Section 605, Revised
Statutes, contains these words "The words ' circuit justice'
and 'justice of a circuit,' when used in this title, shall be
understood to designate the justice of the Supreme Court who

HUDSON v. PARKER.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, Brown, JJ.

is allotted to any circuit." Did not this court, when it framed
this paragraph, understand what the statute had declared to
be the meaning of the words "justice of a circuit 2" If the
power belonged to all the justices of the court, either mdependently of the rule or by virtue of the first paragraph, why
in this second paragraph mention the justice of the circuit 2
I confess my inability to see any reason therefor.
Hence I am forced to the conclusion that if the order of
Mr. Justice White, who was not the justice of the eighth
circuit, is to be construed as a command in respect to bail, it
was beyond the scope of the rule. I think, however -and in
this I must also differ from the majority- that, reasonably
construed, it may be taken as a supersedeas, the power to grant
which is unquestioned, and a reference of the matter of bail to
the trial judge.
Indeed, the conclusion reached by the court seems to work
out this curious result, that one judge, by virtue of his power
to allow a writ of error, can command another judge to perform the ministerial duty of approving a bail bond. Suppose
a criminal case is tried by a justice of this court while
holding the Circuit Court, can it be that the circuit judge,
exercising the power given to him by the first paragraph
of this rule, can allow a writ of error, and couple with it a
command to the circuit justice to approve a bail bond against
his judgment of the propriety of letting to bail, and such
command be enforced by a writ of mandamus from this court 2
I submit the query without further comment.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTiCE BnowN concurs in
these views.
MR.JUSTICE WHITE

took no part in the decision of this case.

