626

LEATIEIIS

LEATHERS

v.BLESSING.'

v.

[Sup. Ct.

BLESSING.

1. The term "torts," when used in reference to admiralty jurisdiction, embraces
not only wrongs committed by direct force, but such as are suffered in consequence of negligence or malfeasance, where the remedy at common law
is by an action on the case.
2. The jurisdiction in admiralty is not ousted by the fact that, when the wrong
was done on the vessel by the negligence of her master, she had completed
her voyage and was securely moored at the wharf where her cargo was
about to be discharged.

the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The case is stated inthe opinion of the court.
APPEAL from

Mr.John G. Carlisle for the appellants.
Mr. Charles W. liornor for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFOIRD delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an appeal by the respondents in a suit in admiralty
in personam from the decree therein. Leathers was the master
of the steamboat " Natchez," and he and the other respondent
were the owners of that vessel. The suit was brought in the
District Court to recover damages for personal injuries received
by Blessing, the libellant, on board of that vessel, and he had
a decree in that court against the respondents in personamn, and
as owners of the vessel, and in solido, for $5,758.50, with five
per cent interest from judicial demand till paid, and costs of
suit. The respondents appealed to the Circuit Court. That
court found the following facts :" 1. That on the twenity-sixth

day of December, A. D. 1873, the defendant therein, Thomas
P. Leathers, was the master, and he and Mary Meeha, wife of
Anthony Pauly, were the owners of the steamboat ' Natchez.'
2. That about I o'clock P. m. of said day the said steamboat
' Natchez' was lying at the wharf on the Mississippi, near the
foot of Canal Street, in the city of New Orleans, securely
moored to said wharf, and with at least one of her gangplanks out and resting on the shore, which afforded ingress and
egress between the lower deck of said steamboat and the wharf.

Oct. 1881.]

LEATHERS

V. BLESSING.

3. That on the day and at the hour above mentioned the said
steamboat had recently arrived at the port of New Orleans
from a trip Up the Mississippi River, having on board a large
number of bales of cotton, and that the trip of said steamboat
was completed, but her cargo was still to be discharged. 4. That
a part of said cargo of coton was stowed on the forward deck
several tiers high, and a passageway was left from the end of
the gang-plank to the foot of the stairs. This passageway was
covered with bales of cotton piled on the bridging, and persons
on shore who desired to go to the cabin or office of the steamboat could only do so by going along this passageway to the
stairs, and up the stairs to the cabin and office. 5. That, after
the landing of said boat, and after her gang-plank had been run
ashore, so that persons could go from shore to said steamboat.
the libellant went aboard of said steamboat, along said gangplank, with the purpose of going up into her cabin or to her
office. 6. That the master and officers of said steamboat were
accustomed to permit persons expecting to find oil said steamboat freight consigned to them, as soon as she had landed, and her
gang-plank was out, to go aboard of her to examine the manifest or transact any other business with her master or officers.
7. That the libellant had business on said steamboat when lie
went aboard of her as aforesaid, lie was expecting a consignment of cotton-seed by said steamboat, and went aboard to
ascertain whether it had arrived. 8. That, when libellant was
going through said passageway, and when near the foot of the
stairs, on his way to the cabin or office of said steamboat, a
basle of cotton fell from the upper part of said passageway
against and upon the leg and ankle of libellant, causing a coinpound fracture of the bones of his ankle and leg. 9. That said
bale of cotton was carelessly and negligently stowed, and was
left in such a position that it was liable to fall upon persons
going along said passageway to the foot of the stairs of said
steamboat, and its position was known to the master of said
steamboat. 10. That libellant was in no manner negligent or
in fault, whereby lie contributed to his said injury. 11. That
the fracture of libellant's leg and ankle was such as to render
amputation of his leg necessary, and his leg had to be and
was amputated in consequence of the injury sustained by him

LEATHERS V. BLESSING.

[Sup. Ct

as aforesaid. 12. That, at the time of his injury aforesaid,
the libellant was thirty-eight years of age, and was earning in
his business, which was buying cotton-seed, as agent for the
Louisiana Oil Company, the sun of $750 per year. 13. That,
at the time of said injury, the libellant was in good health, with
a good character for sobriety and integrity. 14. That, in consequence of the injury sustained by him as aforesaid, the costs
and expenses incurred by libellant for treatment, surgical services, and in and about his care and cure, amounted to the sum
of seventeen hundred and seven dollars and fifty cents. 15.
That the other damage resulting to libellant from said injury,
consequent upon loss of time and the permanent disability
caused by the loss of his leg, amounted to the sun of four
thousand dollars." As a conclusion of law from the foregoing
facts, the court found that the libellant ought to recover from
the respondents the aggregate amount of said costs, expenses,
and damage, with interest thereon, as additional damage, from
the date of judicial demand, and it gave a decree in favor of
libellant against the respondents for the said sun of $5,707.50,
with interest at the rate of five per cent per annum from the
date of judicial demand till paid, and costs of suit. From that
decree this appeal was taken by the respondents.
The only question raised by the appellants is as to whether
the suit was one of admiralty jurisdiction in the District Court.
They maintain that jurisdiction of the case belonged exclusively to a court of common law. Attention is directed to the
facts that the Circuit Court did not find that the libellant was
an officer, seaman, passenger, or freighter, or that he had any
connection with the vessel or any business upon her or about
her, except that when lie went on board of her he was expecting a consignment of cotton-seed by her, and went on board to
ascertain whether it had arrived ; and that the vessel had fully
completed her voyage and was securely moored at the wharf at
the time the accident occurred. It is urged that the case is
one of an injury received by a person not coniected with the
vessel or her navigation, through the carelessness or neglect of
another person, and that the fact that the person guilty of negligence was at the time in control of a vessel which had been
previously engaged in navigating waters within the jurisdiction

Oct. 1881.]

LEATI IES

v. BLESSING.

of the admiralty courts of the United States, cannot give jurisdiction to such courts.
Although a suit might have been brought in a common-law
court for the cause of action sued on here, the District Court,
sitting in admiralty, had jurisdiction of this suit. The vessel
was water-borne in the Mississippi River at the time, laden with
an undiseharged cargo, .having just arrived with it from a voyage. The findings sufficiently show that her cargo was to be
discharged at the place where she was moored. Therefore,
although the transit of the vessel was completed, she was still
a vessel occupied in the business of navigation at the time.
The facts, that she was securely moored to the wharf, and had
communication with the shore by a gang-plank, did not make
her a part of the land or deprive her of the character of a
water-borne vessel.
The findings state that the master and officers of the vessel
were accustomed to permit persons expecting to find on the
vessel freight consigned to them, as soon as she had landed and
her gang-plank was out, to go on board of her to examine the
manifest or transact any other business with her master or
officers ; that the libellant had business on her when lie went
on board of her under the circumstances set forth in the findings; that he was expecting a consignment of cotton-seed by
her; and that he went on board to ascertain whether it had
arrived. These findings show that not only did the libellant
go on board for a purpose proper in itself, so far as he was concerned, but that he went substantially on the invitation of
those in control of the vessel. It is not found that he knew
of the custom referred to, but it is found that lie was acting in
accordance with such custom, and it is not found that he did
not know of such custom. With the added fact that his business was that of buying cotton-seed, it is properly to be inferred
that le went on board to inquire whether the vessel had brought
the cotton-seed which he was expecting, because lie knew of
such custom. This makes the case one of invitation to the
libellant to go on board in the transaction of business with the
master and officers of the vessel, recognized by them as proper
business to be transacted by him with them on board of tihe
vessel at the time and place in question. Under such circumn-

630

[Sup. Ct,

THE "POTOMAC."

stances, the relation of the master and of his co-owner, through
him, to the libellant, wts such as to create a duty on them to
see that the libellant was not injured by the negligence of the
master. On the facts found there was a breach of that duty by
the negligence of the master, constituting a maritime tort, of
which the District Court had jurisdiction in this suit. Not
only does the jurisdiction of courts of admiralty in matters of
tort depend entirely on locality, but since the case of Waring v. Clarke (5 How. 441, 464), the exception of infra corpus
cornitatus is not allowed to prevail.

Nor is the term " tort,"

when used in reference to admiralty jurisdiction, confined to
wrongs or injuries committed by direct force, but it includes
wrongs suffered in consequence of the negligence or malfeasance

of others, where the remedy at common-law isby an action on
the case. Phila., Wil., ep Balt. Railroad Co. v. Phil. & Havre
de Grace Steam Towboat Co., 23 id. 209, 214, 215.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be affirmed, with costs

and interest on the principal sum of $5,707.50 decreed by the
Circuit Court, to be computed at the rate of five per cent per
annum from "the date of judicial demand in the District Court,

till paid; and it is
So ordered.

THE " POTOMAC."
1. Upon a libel in admiralty for a collision, the libellant may be allowed damages for the loss of the use of his vessel while laid up to repair the injuries
thereby suffered; and if at the time of the collision she was in no need of
repair, and was engaged in and peculiarly fitted for a particular business,
and ber charter value cannot be otherwise satisfactorily ascertained, the
average of the net profits of her trips for the season may be adopted as
the measure of the allowance.
2. A vessel being insured on two-thirds of her valuation by valued policies, by
which, in case the insurers should pay any loss, the assured agreed to assign
to tbem all right to recover satisfaction from any other person, or to prose.
cute tberefor at the charge and for account of the insurers, if requested,
and that they should be entitled to such proportion of the damages recovered as the amount insured bore to the valuation in the po'icies, the assured
filed a libel in admiralty against another vessel for damages suffered by a
collision. The insurers paid the libellant two-thirds of that damage, and

