OCt. 1881.]

RALLS

COUNTY COURT V. UNITED STATES.

733

correctly decided the legal propositions in favor of the plaintiff,
it was not error to instruct the jury to bring in a verdict for
the plaintiff if they believed he was a bona fide holder and
owner of the cou)Qns sued for.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD did not sit in this case, nor take

any part in deciding it.

RALLS

COUNTY

COURT V. UNITED

STATES.

1. Where judgment has been duly obtained in Missouri against a county upon
coupons detached from its bonds, no defence which questions their validity
can be pleaded to a mandomins commanding the county court to pay the
judgment from moneys in the treasury, or raise the means therefor by the
levy of a special tax.
2. If not restrained by some valid special limitation upon the exercise of its
taxing power, a county, authorized by law to contract an extraordinary
debt by the issue of negotiable securities, can levy a tax sufficient to meet
the principal and interest, as they respectively mature. Uied States v.
New Orleans (99 U. S. 582) cited upon this point and approved.
3. A general law confining the annual tax "to defray the expenses of the
county" to a fixed per centam is not applicable to such a debt.
4. After the debt was created, laws passed, depriving the county court of the
requisite power to levy the tax which it possessed when the bonds were
issued, are invalid.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Henry A. Cunningham for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. John I. Overall, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, delivered the opinion of the
court.

Section 29 of the act to incorporate the St. Louis and
Keokuk Railroad Company, approved Feb. 16, 1857, is as
follows: -

734

RALLS

COUNTY COURT V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

"It shall be lawful for the county court of any county in which

any part of the route of said railroad may be to subscribe to the
stock of said company ; and it may invest its funds in the stock of
said company, and issue the bonds of said county to raise funds to
pay the stock thus subscribed, and to take proper steps to protect
the interest and credit of the county. Such county court nay
appoint an agent to represent the county, vote for it, and receive
its dividends."
Under this authority the County Court of Ralls County subscribed $200,000 to the stock of the company, and, during the
years 1870 and 1871, issued bonds of the county to pay the
subscription. I)efault having been made in the payment of
coupons for interest attached to some of these bonds, Douglass

brought suit against the county, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, for their
recovery, and, on the 16th of October, 1878, obtained judgment for $17,158.43. That judgment was affirmed in Countq
of Ralls v. Douglass, supra, p. 728.
After the judgment was rendered in the Circuit Court, the
present suit was begun by the United States, on his relation,
to require the county court, by mandanus, to pay the amount
due out of moneys in the treasury of the county ; or, if that
could not be done, to raise the necessary means by the levy of
a special tax. In the return to the alternative writ many
defences were set up which related to the validity of the
coupons on which the judgment had been obtained, as obligations of the county. As to all these defences, it is sufficient to
say it was conclusively settled by the judgment which lies at
the foundation of the present suit, that the coupons were binding obligations of the county, duly created under the authority
of the charter of the railroad company, and, as such, entitled to
payment out of any fund that could lawfully be raised for that
It has been in effect so decided by the Supreme
purpose.
Court of Missouri in State v. Rainey (74 Mo. 229), and the
principle on which the decision rests is elementary.
The present suit is in the nature of an execution, and its
object is to enforce the payment, in some way provided by law,
of the judgment which has been recovered. The only defences
that can be considered are those which may be presented in

Oct. 1881.]

RALLS

COUNTY

COURT V. UNITED STATES.

725

the proper course of judicial procedure against the collection
of valid coupons, executed under the authority of law and reduced to judgment. While the coupons are merged in the
judgment, they carried with themn into the judgment all the
remedies which in law formed a part of their contract obligations, and these remedies may still be enforced in all appropriate ways, notwithstanding the change in the form of the debt.
This brings us to consider what may be done to enforce the
judgment. The county court insists that its power of taxation is limited to the levy of an annual tax of one-half of one
per cent on the taxable property in the county, and that as
this tax has always been levied at the times provided by law,
the duty of the court in the premises has been fully performed.
The relator, on the contrary, claims that the limit of one-half
of one per cent only applies to taxes to defray the general expenses of the county, and that if the fund produced in this
way is not sufficient to enable the county to pay his judgment,
an additional tax must be levied and collected specifically for
that purpose. This presents the real controversy we have to
settle.
When the charter of the St. Louis and Keokuk Railroad
Company was granted, when the subscription was made to its
stock by the county court, and when the bonds to pay the
subscription were put out, there were limitations on the powers
of the county court for the levy of taxes to defray the expenses of the county which confined the tax for a year to onehalf of one per cent or less. The question we have to consider
is not whether this power has been reduced below that limit,
but whether the limit is applicable to the obligation of the
county created under the authority of the particular charter
now in question.
It must be considered as settled in this Court, that when authority is granted by the legislative branch of the government
to a municipality, or a subdivision of a State, to contract an
extraordinary debt by the issue of negotiable securities, the
power to levy taxes sufficient to meet, at maturity, the obligation to be incurred, is conclusively implied, unless the law
which confers the authority, or some general law in force at
the time, clearly manifests a contrary legislative intention.

736

RLLS COUNTY COURT V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. C,.

The power to tax is necessarily an ingredient of such a power
to contract, as, ordinarily, political bodies can only meet their
pecuniary obligations through the instrumentality of taxation.
This general doctrine has been so many times announced, that
it cannot be necessary now to do more than refer to Loan Association v. Topeka (20 Wall. 655), where the opinion was given
by Mr. Justice Miller, and United States v. AeVw Orleans (98
U. S. 381), in which Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the
In
entire court, went elaborately over the whole subject.
United States v. County of J4facon (99 id. 582), there was a
special limitation on the power to tax coupled with the authority to contract, and because the legislature saw fit to say
how much of a tax in addition to that otherwise provided
might be levied to meet the new and extraordinary obligation
which was contemplated, it was held that a prohibition against
anything more was necessarily to be inferred.
In the present case there is no such special limitation. The
defence rests entirely on tile power to tax to "defray the expenses of the county," which it has always been the policy of
the State to restrict. The county court was, however, not
only authorized to issue bonds, but to "take proper steps to
protect the interest and credit of the county." It would seem
as though nothing more was needed. As the commercial credit
of the county, in respect to its negotiable bonds, could only be
protected, under ordinary circunstances, by the prompt payment of both principal and interest, at maturity, and there is
nothing to show that payment was to be made in any other
way than through taxation, it necessarily follows that power
to tax to meet the payment was one of the essential elements
of the power to protect the credit. If what the law requires
to be done can only be done through taxation, then taxation is
authorized to the extent that may be needed, unless it is otherwise expressly declared. The power to tax in such cases is
not an implied power, but a duty growing out of the power to
contract. The one power is as much express as the other.
Here it seems to have been understood by the legislature that
the ordinary taxes might not be enough to enable the county
to neet the extraordinary obligation that was to be incurred,
and so, without placing any restriction on the amount to be

Oct. 1881.]

RALLS

COUNTY COURT V. UNITED STATES.

737

raised, the county court was expressly empowered to do all
that was necessary to protect the credit of the county. We
cannot agree to the position taken by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, that this power was exhausted when the bonds
were issued to pay the subscription. The faith of the county
pledged by the subscription was kept when the bonds were
put out, but only by transferring the credit to be protected
from the subscription to the bonds. The subscription was
paid by the bonds ; but the obligation to pay the bonds, principal and interest, when they matured was legally substituted.
We have been referred to many instances in which statutes
were passed authorizing special taxes to pay bonds which had
long before been issued under original authority like that
contained in the present charter; but this does not, in our
opinion, change the case. Sueh legislation seems to have
been procured out of abundant caution ; but in none of the
numerous cases in the Missouri reports, to which our attention has been directed, is it anywhere said that the requisite tax could not have been levied but for such legislation.
In State v. Dallas County Court (72 Mo. 329), and some
other cases before, it was held that such a provision as that
contained in the charter of the St. Louis and Keokuk Railroad Company, now under consideration, was repealable; but
none of the judges whose decisions have been published intimate even that if there had been no repeal there could not be
a tax. It has been many times decided that county courts in
Missouri, while acting as the governing bodies of their coun;ties, which are nothing more than political subdivisions of the
State, have no implied powers. Authority must be conferred
on them by law to act, or they cannot act at all. This is not
peculiar to the county officials of Missouri. The same principle applies to all municipal organizations in all the States, and
in this respect it matters but little whether the organization
exists as a full corporation or a quasi corporation. The point
is that all such organizations for local government, by whatever
name they may be called, have only such powers as the legislatures of their respective States see fit to delegate to them.
But all powers that are delegated may be exercised in any
proper way and at all proper times.
VoL. XV.

47

738

RALLS COUNTY COURT V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

This makes it unnecessary to consider whether the power of

taxation given by the general railroad laws in force when
these bonds were made can be invoked in aid of the relator.
It is enough that we find sufficient power in the charter of the
company itself, without looking elsewhere. We ought, perhaps, to say, however, that the remark in the opinion in
United States v. Couuty of Macon (99 U. S. 582, 591), to the
effect that the power of taxation granted by the general rail-

road laws was confined to subscriptions authorized by them,
should be construed as made in a case where a special limita-

tion on the power to tax was contained in the charter which
authorized the issue of the bonds then in question, and that
it was only necessary to decide that the railroad laws did not
enlarge that power. The language there used may be broader
than on further consideration we shall be willing to agree to.
That case is authority on this point only to the extent it was
necessary then to decide.
It follows from this that all laws of the State which have
been passed since the bonds in question were issued, purporting to take away from the county courts the power to levy
taxes necessary to meet the payinents, are invalid, and that,
under the well-settled rule of decision in this court, the Circuit Court had authority by mandamus to require the county
court to do all the law, when the bonds were issued, required
it to do to raise the means to pay the judgment, or something
substantially equivalent. The fact that money has once been
raised by taxation to meet the payment, which has been lost,
is no defence to this suit. The claim of the bondholders continues until payment is actually made to them. If the funds
are lost after collection, and before they are paid over, the loss
falls on the county and not the creditors. The writ as issued
was properly in the alternative to pay from the money already
raised, or levy a tax to raise more. It will be time enough to
consider whether the command of the writ that the court cause
the tax to be collected is in excess of the requirements of the
law, when the justices of the court are called on to show why
they have not obeyed the order. The same may be said of the
order to draw the warrant on the treasurer. As at present informed, we see no irregularity in anything that has been done.

Oct. 1881.]

Limis

V. COMAIISSIONRS.

739

The judgment of the Circuit Court will be affirmed, and
the cause remanded, with leave to the court to make such
changes in the order originally entered as may have become
necessary by reason of the time that has elapsed since the writ
of error was brought ; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFOID did not sit in this and the case
mentioned in the following note.
Nore. - Lincoln County Court v. United States, error to the same court, was
argued at the same time and by the same counsel as the preceding case.
MR. CHIEF JUsIcE WArri,, on behalf of the court, remarked that the cases
differed only in one particular. Here the bonds were not actually delivered until after the statute requiring registration went into effect, though they were in
the hands of the agent for delivery before. It is contended that on this account
no special tax can be levied for their payment, notwithstanding the judgment
that has been recovered upon them. In our opinion this is a defence that cannot
be taken advantage of after judgment. As has been said in the Ralls County
case, it was conclusively settled by the judgment, which this proceeding is to
carry into execution, that the coupons sued on were binding obligations of the
county, duly created under the authority of law, and as such are entitled to payment out of any fund that can lawfully be created for that purpose.
Judgment affirmed and the cause remanded, with the same order as in that case.

LEWIS V.

COMMISSIONERS.

1. The act of Kansas approved March 2, 1872 (Laws of Kansas, 1872, p. 110),
does not require that the bonds issued pursuant to its provisions by a county
in aid of works of internal improvement siall in all cases be deposited
with the treasurer of state before they are delivered to the auditor of state
for registration and for his certificate thereon, required by the fourteenth
section. Infra, p. 742.
2. That certificate, as between the bona fide holder for value and the county, is
conclusive that the bonds, which by their terms purport to be issued under
that act, and which absolutely and unconditiottally covenant to pay a certain sun of money at a time and place therein named, are negotiable as
the valid obligations of the county.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.

