408

HANNIBAL

v. FAUNTLEIMOY.

[Sup. Ct.

tion, have prevented Bayer from making any disposition of the
property, inconsistent with his obligations under the contract;
and upon proof of his inability or unwillingness to complete
the performance of his agreement the court would not haw,
hesitated, in the exercise of a familiar jurisdiction, to protect
the interests of Hauselt, by placing the property in the custody
of a receiver for preservation, with authority, 'f such a course
seemed expedient, in its discretion, to finish the unfinished
work, and ultimately, by a sale and distribution of its proceeds,
to adjust the rights of the parties.
For these reasons, we think the court below erred in its
charges.to the jury. The judgment will, therefore, be reversed,
with instructions to grant a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

HANNIBAL V.

FAUNTLEROY.

In a suit upon city bonds, which recite that they are issued to pay its subscription, the validity of which depended on its ratification "by a majority of the
taxpayers," the plaintiff offered in evidence, 1, the poil-books of an election
held for that purpose and to elect city officers, for whom no person other than
a taxpayer could lawfully vote, and which contain the name of every voter,
with the record of his vote on the question, and show a majority of votes cast
in favor of the ratification; 2, the proceedings of a meeting of the city
council, whereat that fact was shown to their satisfaction by the certificate of
the officers of the election, and the bonds ordered to be issued. field, that
the offered evidence is competent, and that the plaintiff was not bound to
sustain the record by proof that each person voting was thereunto lawfully
entitled.

Ennor to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Air. Chester 1f. Krum, with whom was XAr. J. A. Irurn, for
the plaintiff in error.
Ar. James Grant for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought by Fauntleroy, the defendant
in error, a citizen of Virginia, against the city of Hannibal, a

Oct. 1881.]

HANNIBAL V. FAUNTLEROY.

municipal corporation of Missouri, to recover the amount of
principal and interest alleged to be due on certain bonds and
coupons. The bonds are dated April 1, 1858, for $1,000 each,
and are payable twenty years after date to A. 0. Nash, auditor
of said city, or bearer, at the American Exchange Bank, New
York, for value received, without defalcation, with interest at
the rate of ten per cent per annum, payable semi- annually,
on the first day of October and April in each year, upon presentation of the annexed coupons severally, until the payment
of the principal sum. They purport on their face to have been
issued by the city to pay calls on subscription for stock in the
Pike County Railroad, Illinois. They contain no other recitals.
They were issued, it is claimed, under the authority of an
act of the legislature of Missouri, passed Feb. 27, 1857, to
amend the charter of the city, the third section of which reads
as follows: "SECT. 3. Said city council shall have power to subscribe for
and take stock in any railroad terminating at the city of Hannibal
or upon the bank of the Mississippi River opposite to said city in
the State of Illinois. But before such subscription shall be valid, it
shall be ratified by a majority of the taxpayers, at a poll to be
opened for that purpose."

The second section of the same act provides that "said council shall also have power to borrow on the credit of the city
and to pledge the revenues and public property for the payment thereof; but a greater rate of interest than ten per cent
shall not be paid on any sum borrowed, unless two-thirds of
the qualified voters of said city, at polls to be opened for that
purpose, shall instruct the payment of a greater rate."
It is, therefore, not denied that the bonds are binding obligations upon the municipal corporation, provided the snlbscription to the stock of the Pike County Railroad, in payment of
which they were issued, was lawfully made ; and no question
is made as to the validity of this subscription, except that it
was not ratified, as is claimed, by a majority of the taxpayers,
in accordance with the provisions of the third section of the
amended charter.
It appears that, at a called meeting of the city council

HANNIBAL V. FAUNTLEROY.

[Slip. Ct.

of the city of Hannibal, held on Oct. 22, 1857, an ordinance was duly passed authorizing and directing the subscription of $100,000 stock in the Pike County Railroad, as
follows: "Be it ordained by the city council of the city of Hannibal, as
follows :" SECT. 1. That the mayor of the city of Hannibal be, and is
hereby, authorized and directed to subscribe for and take for the
city of Hannibal, one hundred thousand dollars stock in the Pike
County Railroad, having its western terminus on the bank of the
Mississippi River, at a point in the State of Illinois opposite the
city of Ilannibal, within a one-half mile of the western terminus of
Suy Carty Plank Road ; said stock to be paid fbr in the bonds of
the city of Hannibal at their par value, which bonds are to be made
payable not exceeding twenty years from the date of their issue,
and are to bear ten per cent interest per annum, payable semiannually.
" SECT. 2. That the mayor be, and is hereby, directed to cause a
poll to be opened in said city of Hannibal for the purpose of obtaining the ratification of the foregoing said subscription of one hundred
thousand dollars stock in-said Pike County Railroad by the taxpayers of said city of Hannibal, in accordance with the provisions contained in the third section of an act passed by the General Assembly
of the State of Missouri, entitled 'An Act to amend the charter of
the city of Hannibal,' approved February 27th, 1857.
" SEcT. 3. This ordinance to take effect from and after its pas-

sage.'!
On the trial of the cause in the Circuit Court, the plaintiff, recognizing his obligation to prove affirmatively that
the bonds in question had been issued under the authority
of the law, introduced in evidence the poll-books of an election held at voting places in the three wards of the city, on
the first Monday (the second day) of November, 1857, for the
purpose of electing a mayor, marshal, recorder, and attorney
for said city, three councilmen for each ward, and for the
ratification of the subscription of $100,000 of stock in the
Pike County Ilarioad. These poll-books contain the name of
every voter, with a record of his vote, whether for or against
ratification, and are authenticated by the certificate of the

Oct. 1881.]

HANNIBAL

V. FAUNTLEROY.

judges and clerks of the election, stating the result, and specifying in their return, under the head " for ratifying the
subscription of $100,000 stock in Pike Co. Railroad," the
number of votes cast in favor of and against the ratification.
The result as shown by these poll-books, in the aggregate, was
that three hundred and sixteen votes were cast in favor of, and
thirty-two against, the ratification. At a called meeting of
the city council of the city, on 'Nov. 4, 1857, it is recorded,
that the clerk read to the city council the certificate of the
mayor and one judge of the election front each ward in the
city, whereby it was shown to the satisfaction of the council
that at the municipal election held in the several wards on
Monday, Nov. 2, 1857, certain persons named therein had been
duly elected to the several offices therein specified, and thereupon it was resolved that certificates be made out a'd delivered to the officers elect, and at the conclusion of the entry
upon the record there is the statement, -" for ratification,
three hundred and sixteen votes; against, thirty-two votes."
At a regular meeting of the city council on Dec. 7, 1857,
it is recorded, that, " on motion of Mr. Dowling, resolved,
that the mayor be, and he is hereby, authorized and instructed
to issue the bonds of the city to the Pike County Railroad, in
accordance with calls on the capital stock made by order of the
board of directors, and in pursuance of an ordinance approved
October 22d, 1857."
The stock subscribed for was duly issued to the city, abid is
still held by it; and the corporation has continuously exercised
the privileges of a stockholder, though it is admitted that the
stock has no pecuniary value.
It was also proven that, in various ways, prior to the institution of this suit, the city bad admitted her liability upon
these bonds by making arrangements for the payment of coupons as they fell due, receiving them in payment of taxes, permitting judgment to be rendered on account of unpaid coupons,
once by consent and once by default; but the city objected to
the whole evidence on the ground that it was insufficient to
establish such liability, because it failed to show a ratification
of the subscription by a vote of a majority of taxpayers at an
election called and held for that purpose.

HANNIBAL V. FAUNTLEROY.

[Sup. Ct.

The answer to this objection, however, is found in the provisions of art. 1, sect. 10, of the charter of 1851, of the city
(Laws of Missouri, 1851, p. 827), admitted to have been in
force at the time, which defined the qualification of voters as
follows: "SECT. 10. All free white male citizens, who have arrived at the
full age of twenty-one years, and who shall be entitled to vote for
State officers, and who shall have resided within the city limits at
least six months next preceding any election, and, moreover, who
shall have paid a city tax or any city license according to ordinance,
shall be eligible, and entitled to vote at any ward or city election
for officers of the city."

It thus appears that no person could lawfully vote at the
election held Nov. 2, 1857, for city officers, except taxpayers;
and assuming that the list of names contained in the pollbooks as having voted for or against the ratification of the
subscription to the stock in the Pike County Railroad are
those of the same persons who voted for city officers, it follows
that they must all have been taxpayers, on the presumption,
which certainly must be applied, that they were all legally
entitled to vote.
It is argued that the legislature used the word "taxpayers,"
in the third section of the act of 1857, in a sense designedly
differing from that of " qualified voters," in the second section,
who are to decide upon the question of the rate of interest on
money borrowed in excess of the ten per cent per annum.
We see no evidence, however, of such an intention. On the
contrary, that supposition would necessitate the conclusion that
by the word "taxpayers" the legislature meant to include persons not otherwise qualified to vote; for example, not free
white male citizens, minors, women, married and unmarried,
and non-residents. The reasonable interpretation is, that the
question of ratifying the subscription should be submitted to
the vote of the taxpayers of the city, having the qualification
otherwise of lawful voters; and this included, as we have seen,
all the qualified voters of the city.
To allow the present objection to prevail would require the
plaintiff, not only to show that the persons voting to ratify the

Oct . 1881.]

HANNIBAL

v. FAUNTLEROY.

stock subscription were all taxpayers, but also that they had
all the other requisite qualifications of persons entitled by law
to vote. In our opinion, the law imposes no such unreasonable
burden upon the owner of such bonds. He is bound to show,
in the absence of recitals that prevent its denial, that the corporation issued them, in the exercise of a power conferred by
law; and where that can arise only in consequence of the performance of a condition precedent, such as the result of an
election by a public vote, he has the burden of proof to show
the fact. That fact, as in the present case, is fully proven by
an exhibition of the record, which shows on its face the result
claimed. He is not bound to sustain the truth of the record, as
if it were the case of a contested election, and prove that the
majority, on the existence of which his rights rest, consisted of
persons, all of whom possessed the qualification of voters.
Whether each voter was lawfully such, was a question in the
first place, in the present case, for the judges of the election,
who were appointed under the law, for the express purpose of
receiving and deciding upon their votes; and, in the second
place, for the city council, to whom the official return of the
election and of its result was made, as required, and who were
authorized to act upon that result as certified to and verified by
themselves, in the very matter of consummating the subscription, which was the subject of the vote. It would be impracticable for any purchaser of the bond, put- on inquiry, as to
the authority of the city council to make the issue of the bonds
in question, to make inquisition into the facts of the election,
beyond these returns and records; and it is but reasonable to
permit him safely to rest his rights upon them, as they appear.
They show the fact, that the subscription to the railroad stock
was ratified by a majority of the voters, presumed to be qualified to vote, because permitted by the authorities controlling
the election to do so, at an election held for the purpose,
among other things, of deciding that question ; and that fact
constitutes the condition on which the authority to issue the
bonds, by law, depends, and is the guarantee of their validity.
Judgment affirmed.

