LINCOLN V. FRENCH.

[Sup. Ct.

LINCOLN v. FRENCH.
1. The presumption that a trustee performed his duty by reconveying to his
grantors the title to land, when the conditions became impossible upon which
he was to execute the trust declared in their deed to him, is a disputable
one, and may, therefore, be overcome by opposing evidence.
2. The outstanding title in the trustee bars ejectment by the grantors.

ERuor to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
This was an action for the possession of a tract of land containing three hundred and twenty acres, situated in the town of
Sutter, county of Sacramento, and State of California. The
complaint is in the usual form for the recovery of land under the
system of procedure which obtains in California. As originally
filed in November, 1866, it embraced thirty-one defendants ; but
by amendments to the pleadings and other causes the number
has since been reduced to seven. Various defences were set up
by them, which it is not necessary to state to understand the
questions to be considered. It is enough to say that they were
sufficient to put in issue the title of the plaintiff and his right
of possession.
The case was first tried in 1867, before a jury, by whom a
general verdict was rendered for the defendants; upon which
judgment was entered in their favor. The question on the
trial, upon which the case turned, related to the validity of a
deed of the sheriff of the county, executed to one of the defendants upon a sale of the property for taxes. The Circuit Court
held the deed valid, and instructed the jury to find for the defendants. The case being brought here, the judgment was
reversed and the cause remanded for a new trial, this court
holding that the sale was invalid, as the sheriff had not conformed to the provisions of the statute, in tha he offered the
whole property to the highest bidder instead of selling the
smallest quantity which any purchaser would take and pay
the judgment rendered for the taxes and costs. French v.
Edwards, 13 Wall. 506.

The case was again tried in 1872, this time by the court,
without the intervention of a jury, upon the stipulation of the

Oct. 1881.]

LINCOLN V. FRENCH.

parties. The court found as facts, that, on the 1st of March,
1862, Robert H. Vance was the owner in fee of the lands in
controversy, and on that day conveyed the same to the plaintiff,
Ira G. French ; and that, on the 9th of January, 1863, French
and Vance, with several others, joined in a deed conveying the
lands to Edward Martin and Francis E. Lynch, upon trust to
sell the same in lots of such size and for such prices as should
be directed by a committee of four persons, or a majority
thereof, to be selected in a manner'indicated ; and, immediately
upon the receipt of the proceeds of the sales, to distribute them
in specified proportions, to the several grantors, and to a certain company, thereafter to be organized, to construct and
maintain a railroad connecting the town of Sutter with the
Sacramento Valley railroad, the portion of this company to be
paid when the connecting road was completed. The deed provided that no conveyance should be made by the trustees until
the road was commenced in good faith, and if it was not built
within one year from its date that the deed of trust itself should
be void, unless time iron for the road should be lost or detained
on its transit; in which case the road was to be built within
two years.
The court also found as facts that the contemplated company
was never incorporated, nor the road commenced ; and that the
defendants, who appeared in the action, were, at its commenceInent, in the exclusive adverse possession of the premises; and
as conclnsions of law, (1) that the plaintiff, French, acquired
title in fee to the premises in controversy by the deed from
Vance on the 1st of March, 1862; and (2) that his title was
conveyed by the deed to Martin & Lynch on the 9th of January, 1863 ; and did not revest on failure of the conditions mentioned in the deed, without a re-entry for condition broken, or
other act manifesting an intention to avoid the deed on that
ground, but remained in the trustees at the commencement of
the action ; and that, therefore, the defendants were entitled to
judgment in their favor. The case was again brought to this
court (21 Wall. 147), and the judgment was again reversed, on
the ground that a reeonveyance from the trustees to French
should have been presumed by the court below, from the lapse
of time after the deed of trust -wvas made, and from the fact

LINCOLN V. FLIENCH.

[Sup. Ct.

that the conditions upon which the trust was to be executed
had never arisen, and had become impossible.
The case was tried a third time, in October, 1878, before the
court without a jury. Among other things, the court found
the same facts which it found on the second trial, as to the execution of the trust deed to Martin & Lynch ; the non-incorporation of the contemplated railroad company mentioned in it;
the non-construction of the road ; and the further fact, that the
trustees never executed any instrument reconveying or purporting to reconvey to the plaintiff any part of the premises
covered by the trust deed, either before or after this action
was commenced. But construing the decision of this court as
indicating that the presumption of reconveyance, arising from
the facts stated, was indisputable and conclusive, it held that
the presumption could not be overthrown by evidence that no
such reconveyanee was actually executed. It accordingly found
that the title was in the plaintiff from the presumed reconveyance by the trustees, and judgment was rendered in his favor.
To review this judgment the case was again brought to this
court.
Mr.Jonas H. M1cGowan and Mr. John H. McKune for the
plaintiffs inerror.
Mr.Sherman 0. Iloughton and Mr. John Reynolds for the
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
In giving its decision when the case was last here, this court
was led into an error in the statement of a fact. It says in its
opinion that the action was begun in November 1872, more
than eight years after the time limited when the trust deed to
Martin & Lynch was to lose its efficacy, when, in reality, it
was commenced in November, 1866, less than three years after
the time mentioned within which the road was to be completed. Although the duty to reconvey arose when by the
terms of the trust deed the time had passed within which
the work was to be done, and the conditions upon which the
trust was to be executed had become impossible, a reconveyance was to be presumed only in the absence of proof to the

Oct. 1881.]

LINCOLN V. FRENCH.

contrary. Like other presumptions, it was sufficient to control the decision of the court if no rebutting testimony was
produced. But all presumptions as to matters of fact, capable of ocular or tangible proof, such as the execution of a
deed, are in their nature disputable. No conclusive character
attaches to them. They may always be rebutted and overthrown.
While in its opinion the court, speaking through Mr. Justice
Swayne, expressed itself as being clear that the case, as then
presented, was one in which a presumption of reconvcyance was
to be indulged, and quoted, with approbation, the language of
Sir William Grant in such cases, that " what ought to have
been done should be presumed to have been done," and that
" when the purpose is answered for which the legal estate is
conveyed it ought to be reconveyed," it added: "If it had
been one of the facts found by the court below that the title
was still in the trustees, the case would have presented a different aspect. It is stated only as a conclusion of law arising upon
the facts found." It is plain, therefore, that this court only
considered that the conclusion of law of the lower court, that
the title was still in the trustees, was not warranted by the facts
found, and that the case would have been differently decided
had what was thus stated as a conclusion of law been one of
those facts. It was not the intention of this court to hold
that the presumption was a conclusive one, not open upon a
retrial to rebuttal, because it was considered to properly arise
upon the facts then presented by the record. When the case
went back upon our decision for further proceedings, - which,
this being an action at law, were necessarily those of a new
trial, - the fact as to a reconveyance was open to proof, and
was not to be taken as conclusively established from the force
of the presumption that it had been made. Presumptions are
indulged to supply the place of facts ; they are never allowed
against ascertained and established facts. When these appear,
presumptions disappear.
The fact having been established, against the presumption
mentioned, that the trustees never reconveyed the premises
or any part thereof to the plaintiff, the title remains in them,
and with it the right of possession. Judgment should, there-

BRIDGI

V. EXCELSIOR CO.

[Su[p. Ct.

fore, have been ordered for the defendants. It follows that the
judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the cause
be remanded with directions to enter judgment in their favor;
and it is
So ordered.

B3RIDGE V.

EXCELSIOR

COMPANY.

The claim for which Esek Bussey secured, July 18, 1876, letters-patent No.
180,001, is confined to an automatic device for raising up and letting down
a hinged oven-shelf, and they are not infringed by constructing and operating a shelf as described in letters-patent No. 205,704, granted Jan. 9, 1878, to
E. C. Little and D. 1I. Nation. The devices in both letters, though in some
respects different, operate upon a principle which has been long used in other
contrivances by which the same general effect is produced.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Eastern District of Missouri.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Robert H. Parkinson for the appellants.
MgJr. Samuel S. Boyd for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case arises upon a bill in equity, founded upon certain
letters-patent tinted July 18, 1876, and numbered 180,001,
granted to one Esek Bussey for an improvement in cookingstoves. The appellants, as his assignees, sue the Excelsior
Manufacturing Company and the other appellees for alleged
infringement, and pray an injunction, an account of profits, and
The appellees filed an answer,dean assessment of damages.
nying infringement, and alleging the patent to be invalid by
reason of certain older patents and of the prior public use of
The patent relates to an oven-shelf
his alleged invention.
placed on a level with the bottom of the oven when the door

is open, and outside of the oven, to serve as a shelf for pans
and other vessels to rest on, when drawn out of, or shoved into,

the oven.

The claim is not for the shelf, as that is admitted

to be old, but for an automnatic device for raising the shelf up-

right and enclosing it within the door when the latter is closed,

