AGER V. MURRAY.

[Sup. Ct.

to the discharge of the lien held by Meyer, both of which were
prior in date to his own, is not founded on any equity, and is
not supported by any authority. On the contrary, it is clear
that the commissioners, having paid off the oldest incumbrance
on the property, are entitled to be subrogated to the rights of
the incumbrancer. -Robinsonv. Ryan, 25 N, Y. 320; Redmond
v. Burroughs, 63 N. C. 242.
A mortgagee who has paid a prior mortgage or other incumbrance upon the land is entitled to be repaid the sum so advanced
when the mortgagor or his vendee comes to redeem. Paye v.
Foster, 7 N. H. 892; Arnold v. Foote, 7 B. Mon. (Ky.) 66;
Harper v. -Ely, 70 111. 581.
The same rule applies to the payment by the mortgagee
of taxes on the mortgaged premises, or any valid assessment
thereon for public improvement.
Dale v. MeEvers, 2 Cow.
(N. Y.), 118.
The decree of the court below gave the complainant every
right which the law accorded him. It must, therefore, be
Afrmed.

AGER V. MURRAY.
A patent-right may be subjected by bill in equity to the payment of a judgment
debt of the patentee.

from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

Submitted on printed briefs by Ifir. Thomas T. Crittenden
and Mr. Warwick M11artin for the appellants, and by Mr. Lemon
G. Hine and Mr. S. T. Thomas for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE GutAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity by a judgment creditor to subject to
the payment of his debt the interest of his debtor in patentrights. The case was heard in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia upon bill and answers, by which it appears
to be as follows: -

Oct. 1881.1

AGER V. MURiRAY.

On the 10th of April, 1876, Talbot C. Murray, in an action
at law upon a promissory note, recovered judgment against
Wilson Ager for the sum of $2,164.66, with interest and
costs. Upon that judgment a writ of fieri facias was issued,
and returned nulla bona. Wilson Ager had no real or personal
property in the District subject to execution at law, but was
the owner of sundry letters-patent issued to him by the United
States for useful inventions, which, if sold, would produce
more than enough money to satisfy that judgment. On the
26th of September, 1876, lie conveyed all his right and interest
in these letters-patent to the other defendant, Elisha C. Ager,
who owned an equitable interest of one-third therein, and who,
on the 8th of October, 1877, reconveyed the patent-rights to
Wilson by an assignment which was not recorded in the Patent
Office. Wilson Ager resides in the District of Columnbia, and
the other defendant resides in the State of California, and both
have appeared in the cause and answered to the merits of the
bill.
The bill prays for an injunction against further assignment
pending the suit, and that the patents be sold under the direction of the court, and the proceeds of the sale applied to the
payment of the judgment debt, and the defendant, Wilson
Ager, be required to execute such assignment as may be necessary to vest title in the purchaser or purchasers, in conformity
with the patent laws, and for further relief. The decree is,
that in default of his paying by a certain day the judgment
mentioned in the bill, with interest and costs, and the costs of
this suit, the patent-rights be sold and an assignment thereof
executed by him as prayed for, and that, in default of his executing such assignment, some suitable person be appointed
trustee to execute the same.
From that decree the original defendants have appealed to
this court; and the single question argued before us is whether
a patent-right may be ordered by a court of equity to be sold
and the proceeds applied to the payment of a judgment debt
of the patentee.
A patent or a copyright, which vests the sole and exclusive
right of making, using, and vending the invention, or of publishing and selling the book, in the person to whom it has been

AGER V. MUR[RAY.

[Sup. Ct.

granted by the government, as against all persons not deriving
title through him, is property, capable of being assigned by
him at his pleasure, although his assignment, unless recorded
in the proper office, is void against subsequent purchasers or
mortgagees for a valuable consideration without notice. Rev.
Stat., sects. 4884, 4898, 4952, 4955. And the provisions of the
patent and copyright acts, securing a sole and exclusive right
to the patentee, do not exonerate the right and property thereby
acquired by him, of which be receives the profits, and has the
absolute title and power of disposal, from liability to be subjected by suitable judicial proceedings to the payment of his
debts.
In England it has long been held that a patent-right would
pass by an assignment in bankruptcy, even without express
words to that effect in the Bankrupt Act. Jesse v. Stevenson,
3 Bos. & Pul. 565; s. c. Davies, Pat. Cas. 263; Longman v.
Tripp, 2 New Rep. 67; Bloxam v. Elsee, 1 Car. & P. 558;
s. c. Ry. & M. 187 ; 6 Barn. & Cress. 169; 9 D. & R. 215;
Mawrnan v. Tegy, 2 Russ. 385; Edelsten v. Viele, 11 Hare,
78; Hudson v. Osborne, 39 L. J. N. S. Ch. 79. In Hesse
v. Stevenson, Mr. Justice Chambre, in the course of the argument, said: " The right to the patent is made assignable;
why then may it not be assigned under a commission of
bankrupt?" 3 Bos. & Pul. 571. And Lord Alvanley, delivering the unanimous judgment of the court, after observing that
it was contended "that the nature of the property in this patent was such that it did not pass under the assignment," and
"that although by the assignment every right and interest,
and every right of action, as well as right of possession and
possibility of interest, is taken out of the bankrupt and vested
in the assignee, yet that the fruits of a man's own invention
do not pass," said: "It is true that the schemes which a man
may have in his own head before he obtains his certificate, or
the fruits which he may make of such- schemes, do not pass, nor
could the assignee require him to assign them over, provided
he does not carry his schemes into effect until after he has
obtained his certificate. But if he avail himself of his knowledge and skill, and thereby acquire a beneficial interest, which
may be the subject of assignment, I cannot frame to myself an

Oct. 1881.]

AGER V. MURRAY.

argument why that interest should not pass in the same manner as any other property acquired by his personal industry."
3 Bos. & Pul. 577, 578. The recent Bankrupt Act of the
United States, in defining what property should vest in the
assignee in bankruptcy, expressly enumerated " all rights in
equity, choses in action, patent-rights, and copyrights," and required the assignee to sell all the property of the bankrupt for
the benefit of his creditors. Rev. Stat., sects. 5046, 5062-5064.
The only difference is, that in England all such rights pass
that become vested in the bankrupt before lie obtains a certificate of discharge, whereas here only those rights pass which
belong to him at the time of the assignment.
It has been said by an English text-writer that "a patentright may be seized and sold in execution by the sheriff under
a fieri facias, being in the nature of a personal chattel."
Webster on Patents, 23. We are not aware of any instance
in which such a course has been judicially approved. But it
is within the general jurisdiction of a court of chancery to assist
a judgment creditor to reach and apply to the payment of his
debt any property of the judgment debtor, which by reason of
its nature only, and not by reason of any positive rule exempting it from liability for debt, cannot be taken on execution at
law; as in the case of trust property in which the judgment
debtor has the entire beneficial interest, of shares in a corporation, or of choses in action. Z'Dermutt v. Strong, 4 Johns.
(N. Y.) Ch. 687; Spader v. Hadden, 5 id. 280, and 20 Johns.
(N. Y.) 554; Edmeston v. Lyde, 1 Paige (N. Y.), 637; W[igin v. Heywood, 118 Mass. 514; Spa'hawle v. Cloon, 125 id.
263; Daniels v. EBldredge, id. 356; Drakce v. Rice, 130 id. 410.
In Stephens v. Cady (14 How. 528), and again in Stevens v.
Gladding (17 id. 447), the point decided was that, by a sale
of the copperplate engraving of a map on execution from a
State court against the owner of the copyright, the purchaser
acquired no right to strike off and sell copies of the map.
Mr. Justice Nelson, in delivering judgment in Stephens
v. Cady, said: " The copperplate engraving, like any other
tangible personal property, is the subject of seizure and sale on
execution, and the title passes to the purchaser the same as
if made at a private sale. But the incorporeal right, secured
VOL. XV.

9

AGER V. MURRAY.

[Sup. Ct.

by the statute to the author, to multiply copies of the map by
the use of the plate, being intangible, and resting altogether in
grant, is not the subject of seizure or sale by means of this
process, - certainly not at common law. No doubt the property may be reached by a creditor's bill, and be applied' to the
payment of the debts of the author, the same as stock of the
debtor is reached and applied, the court compelling 4- transfer
and sale of the stock for the benefit of creditors." He then
cited the cases in Johnson's and Paige's Reports, above referred
to, and added: " But in case of such remedy, we suppose, it
would be necessary for the court to compel a transfer to the
purchaser, in conformity with the requirements of the copyright act, in order to vest him with a complete title to the
property." 14 How. 531.
In Stevens v. Gladdinq, Mr. Justice Curtis said: " There
would certainly be great difficulty in assenting to the proposition that patent and copyrights, held under the laws of the
United States, are subject to seizure and sale on execution.
Not to repeat what is said on this subject in 14 How. 531,
it may be added, that these incorporeal rights do not exist in
any particular State or district; they are coextensive with the
United States. There is nothing in any act of Congress, or
in the nature of the rights themselves, to give them locality
anywhere, so as to subject them to the process of courts having jurisdiction limited by the lines of States and districts.
That an execution out of the Court of Common Pleas for the
County of Bristol, in the State of Massachusetts, can be levied
on an incorporeal right subsisting in Rhode Island or New
York, will hardly be pretended. That by the Ievy of such an
execution the entire right could be divided, and so much of it
as might be exercised within the county of Bristol sold, would
be a position subject to much difficulty. These are important
questions, on which we do not find it necessary to express an
opinion, because in this case neither the copyright, as such,
nor any part of it, was attempted to be sold." 17 How. 451.
The difficulties of which the learned justice here speaks are of
seizing and selling a patent or copyright upon an execution at
law, which is ordinarily levied only upon property, or the rents
and profits of property, that has itself a visible and tangible

Oct. 1881.]

8AGER
v. MURRAY.

existence within the jurisdiction of the court and the precinct
of the officer; and do not attend decrees of a court of equity,
which are in personam, -and may be enforced in all cases where
the person is within its jurisdiction. Aassie v. Watts, 6 Cranch,
148. And the terms in which he refers to the statement of
Mr. Justice Nelson show that there was no intention to criticise or qualify that statement.
There are, indeed, decisions in the Circuit Courts that an
assignee in insolvency, or a receiver, of all the property of a
debtor, appointed under the laws of a State, does not, by virtue
of the general assignment or appointment merely, without any
conveyance made by the debtor or specifically ordered by the
court, acquire a title in patent-rights. Ashcroft v. Wahworth,
1 Holmes, 152; Gordon v. Anthony, 16 Blatchf. 234. But in
Ashcroft v. Walworth Judge Shepley clearly intimated that
the courts of the State might have compelled the debtor to
execute such a conveyance. And the highest courts of New
York and California have affirmed the power, upon a creditor's bill, to order the assignment and sale of a patent-right
for the payment of the patentee's judgment debts. Gillette v. Bate, 86 N. Y. 87 ; Pacific Bankc v. Robinson, 57 Cal.
520.
In Carver v. Pecle (131 Mass. 291), the court reserved the
expression of any opinion upon that question, because unnecessary to the decision. And the assumption in Cooper v. Gunn,
&c. (4 B. Mon. (Ky.) 594), that an author could not be deprived, against his will, and in favor of any of his creditors, of
any of the rights secured to him by the copyright acts, was
merely obiter dictum, unsupported by reasoning or authority.
In the case at bar, the bill is filed by a judgment creditor of
the patentee, in a court of the United States of appropriate
jurisdiction, against the patentee, residing within the District
and holding the entire legal title and two-thirds of the equitable interest in the patent-rights, and against the owner of an
equitable interest in the remaining third, who is properly made
a party to the bill. Both defendants are before the court and
have filed answers. The debtor's interest in the patent-rilghts
is property, assignable by him, and which cannot be taken on
execution at law. The case is thus brought directly within the

IRIVES V. DUKE.

[Sup. Or.

opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Nelson in Stephens v. Cdy,
of the soundness of which we entertain no doubt.
The clause of the decree below, appointing a trustee to execute an assignment if the patentee should not himself execute
one as directed by the decree, has not been objected to in argu-

ment, and was clearly within the chancery powers of the court
as defined in the statute of Maryland of 1785, which is in force

in the District of Columbia. Maryland Stat., 1785, c. 72, sects.
7, 13, 25; 2 Kilty's Laws; Laws of District of Columbia (ed.
1868), pp. 326, 328, 333, 336.
Decree affirmed.

RIVES V. DUKr.
On the 5th of December, 1863, after the Proclamation of Emancipation, and in
that part of Virginia the people of which were in rebellion against the United
States, one resident therein sold and delivered to another a number of slaves,
with warranty of title, but not of soundness, the purchaser covenanting "to
pay on delivery the sum of $25,000 in bankable Confederate currency, and,
in addition, to give his note," with two persons named as sureties, "for the
further sum of $20,000, to be paid in twelve months after call, in equal annual payments thereafter, or at the purchaser's option it may be, on call, all
or a part paid; " and the seller covenanting "not to call upon the purchaser
for specie when it is at a premium, but engaging on his part to be satisfied
with the bankable currency of the day, on the stipulation to choose his own
time for the call." On the 1st of January, 1864, the purchaser, in lieu of the
note, made to the seller two bonds, with the same persons as sureties, to pay
$8,000 "on demand, or twelve months thereafter, at the option of the obligors," and $12,000 "on demand, or two years thereafter, at the option of
the obligors," "in the bankable currency of the day, according to the agreement of the 5th of December last," "the said demand shall be made in writing
by the obligee, his heirs or legal representatives only." Payment of the bonds
was demanded in writing by the obligee after the end of the war of the rebellion, and when the bankable currency of Virginia consisted wholly of notes
of the United States or of the national banks. Held, in an action on the
bonds, that the plaintiff had no ground of exception, 1, to the admission of
evidence that, at the time when the agreement and bonds were made, Confederate currency was bankable and was the only currency in circulation
in Virginia, the value of gold in relation to such currency was as nineteen or
twenty to one, slaves were not selling at all for gold, and these slaves were
not worth in Confederate currency so much as $45,000, and that before the
war, when the price of slaves was at its highest, such a lot of slaves wonld
not have been worth more than a fifth of that sum in gold; 2, to an instruec-

