SULLIVAN

SULLIVAN

V. BURNETT.

V.

[Sup. Ct.

BURNETT.

1. By the laws of Missouri in force in 1866 an alien was capable of taking by
descent lands in that State, and of holding and alienating them, if he either
resided in the United States, and, by taking the oath prescribed by the act
of Congress, had declared his intention to become a citizen, or resided in
Missouri, although the ancestor through wvhom be claimed was, at the time
the descent was cast, an alien, who, by reason of his non-residence, was
incapable of inheriting.
2. The statute of 1855, which gave to a non-resident alien the right within a
limited period to sell and convey the lands whereof the intestate died seized,
applied only where at the time of his (leath there was no person capable of
taking them by descent.
3 The statute of March 30, 1872 (infra, p. 336), has no retrospective opera-

tion.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
This action, under the local law equivalent to an action of
ejectment, involves the title to certain real estate in the city
of St. Louis, of which Edward Sullivan, a naturalized citizen
of the United States, who died intestate in the year 1866, was
seized in fee at the time of his death.
Both parties claimed under him. The court below specially
found that Emily Sullivan, one of the plaintiffs, was his sister,
and that Jeremiah Sullivan, the other plaintiff, was a son of his
deceased brother.
It was admitted on the trial that the plaintiffs were then,
and always had been, non-resident aliens, and that neither
had made a declaration of intention to become a citizen of the
United States.
The court below held that under the laws of Missouri in
force at the death of Edward Sullivan, the plaintiffs were
incapable of acquiring the real estate in dispute, especially
as there were several aliens resident in this country who
had declared their intention to become citizens, and also a
resident alien in Missouri, to whom the real estate would
descend subject to the limitations mentioned in those laws.
Under the foregoing view of the case, the court found it
unnecessary to pass upon the other facts and questions of law
presented by the defendants.

Oct. 1881.]

SULLTVAN V. BURNETT.

Judgment was rendered for the defendants, and the plaintiffs
sued out this writ.
The remaining facts are stated in the opinion of the court,
and the statutes therein mentioned are as follows:"GENERAL STATUTES OF MIssoURI, 1865.
CHAPTEr 110.

TITLE XXVIII.

"SECT. 1. All aliens residing in the United States, who shall haN e
made a declaration of their intention to become citizens of the
United States, by taking the oath required by law, and all aliens,
residents of this State, shall be capable of acquiring real estate in
this State, by descent or purchase, and of holding and alienating
the same, and shall incur the like duties and liabilities in relation
thereto, as if they were citizens of the United States.
" SECT. 2. It shall be lawful for every alien, who, except for his
alienage, would be capable of acquiring real estate by devise or
descent from any person thereafter dying, capable of holding, at the
time of his death, real estate in this State, to sell and convey, in
the manner provided by law for the conveyance of real estate, any
real estate which he may acqnire by virtue of this section, to any
other person capable of holding real estate by virtue of the laws of
this State; and such sale and conveyance, when executed and
delivered in the manner provided, shall have the effeet to pass all
the title to any real estate which such alien may have acquired to
the same, by descent or devise.
" SECT. 3. All such sales and conveyances shall be null and void,
unless made in good faith within three years next after the final
settlement of the estate of the ancestor or devisor: Provided, that
if such real estate be in litigation between such alien and any other
person, then such real estate, or so much thereof as shall have been
in litigation, shall be sold and conveyed within three years after
the termination of such litigation.
"CHAPTER
"

129, id.

OF DESCENTS AND DISTRlUlfTIONS.

"SECT. 1. When any person having title to any real estate of
inheritance, or personal estate undisposed of, or otherwise limited
by marriage settlement, shall die intestate as to such estate, it shall
descend and be distributed in parcenary, to his kindred, male and
female, subject to the payment of his debts and the widow's dower,

SULLIVAN

V. BURNETT.

[Sup. Ct.

in the following course: First, to his children or their descendants
in equal parts; second, if there be no children or their descendants,
then to his father, mother, brothers, and sisters and their descendants in equal parts; third, if there be no children or their descendants, father, mother, brother, or sister, nor their descendants, then
to the husband or wife; if there be no husband or wife, then to the
grandfather, grandmother, uncles and aunts and their descendants,
in equal parts; fourth, if there be no children or their descendants,
father, mother, brother, sister, or their descendants, husband or
wife, grandfather, grandmother, uncles, aunts, nor their descendants, then to the great-grandfathers, great-grandmothers and their
descendants in equal parts; and so on in other cases without end,
passing to the nearest lineal ancestors and their children and their
descendants in equal parts."
"SECT. 8. In making title by descent it shall be no bar to a
demandant that any ancestor through whom he derives his descent
from the intestate is, or has been, :n alien.
"ACT

OFT MARCl

30, 1872.

"SECT. 1. Aliens shall be capable of acquiring, by purchase, devise,
or descent, real estate in this State, and of holding, devising, or
alienating the same, and shall incur the like duties and liabilities in
relation thereto as if they were citizens of the United States, and
residents of this State.
" SECT. 2. Any female born in the United States, owning real
estate or any interest therein in this State, who shall marry an
alien and reside in a foreign country, may, at amy time, notwithstanding such marriage or residence, convey such real estate, or any
interest therein, by deed, or may at any time devise the same by
last will: Provided, the same be done in either case in conformity
with the general laws of' this State concerning the conveyance of
real estate by deed and the making of wills.
" SECT. 3. Chapter one hundred and ten of title twenty-eight of
the General Statutes of Missouri, being chapter five of Wagner's
Missouri Statutes, and an act entitled 'An Act to amnend chapter
one hundred and ten of title twenty-eight of the General Statutes
concerning real property and its alienation,' approved March 13,
1867, are hereby repealed.
" SECT. 4. This act shall take effect on the fourth day of March,
in the year eighteen hundred and seventy-two."

Oce 1881.]

SULLIVAN V. BURNET'I.

lHr. Leroyl B. Valliant and Mr. Willoughlky N. Srnith for the
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Guqstavus A. Finlcehnburg for the defendants in error.
JUSTICE HAIRLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
At the death of the intestate, as well as at the commencement of this action, the plaintiffs-his sister and the son of
his deceased brother - were residents of Ireland and subjects
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. The
defendants, it is sufficient to say, hold whatever title passed to

MI.

a female lunatic, foreign born and a first cousin of the intes-

tate, residing, at his death, in Maryland, but who, so far as
the record discloses, never made a declaration of her intention
to become a citizen of the United States; also. whatever title
passed to the children of Annie Murta and Mary Murta,
foreign-born first cousins, who, like the plaintiffs, resided, at
his death, in Ireland, and were subjects of the United King(loin of Great Britain and Ireland. But their children, also
foreign born, were, at his death, naturalized citizens of the
United States, one of them a resident of the State of Missou ri.

The controlling question relates to the claim of the plaintiffs
to an interest in the property in controversy.
The statutes to which, as bearing upon the ease, our attention has been called, are chapter 110 of the Revised Statutes
of Missouri, 1865, sections 1 and 8 of chapter 129 of the same
revision, and an act of the General Assembly of that State,
approved March 30, 1872. The first section of chapter 110 is
a reproduction of statutory provisions which had been in force.
from a very early period after the admission of Missouri into
the Union. Rev. Stat. Mo., 1825, p. 126; id. 1835, p. 66;
Rev. Code of Mo., 1845, p. 113. It conferred upon two classes
of aliens the same capacity of acquiring by descent or purchase real estate in Missouri, and of holding and alienating it,
as is enjoyed by citizens of the United States, - those residing in this country who had made a declaration of intention
to become citizens of the United States, by taking the required
oath, and those, whether they had made such declaration or
not, who resided in that State. Aliens not belonging to one
VOL. XV,

22

SULLIVAN

V. BURNETT.

[Sup. Ct.

or the other of those classes were left subject to the operation
of the common-law rule - recognized as in force in Missouri that an alien, for the want of inheritable blood, could not take
land by descent. Wacker v. Wacker, 26 Mo. 426; 2 Bi. Com.,
249; Orr v. lodiqson, 4 Wheat. 453. The second and third
sections, as to their substantial provisions, are brought forward
from an act approved Feb. 22, 1855, which declares it to be
" lawful for every alien who, except for his alienage, would be
entitled to any real estate by devise or inheritance from any
person hereafter dying, capable at the time of his death of
holding real estate situate in this State, to legally sell, for his
own use, and convey the title thereof to any person capable
of holding real estate situate within this State: Provided, he
make such sale and conveyance within three years next after
the death of him from whom he shall claim such devise or
inheritance." When the minor is an alien, his guardian is
authorized to make such sale and conveyance. Sess. Laws
Mo., 1855, p. 4.
It is quite clear that, upon the death of Edward Sullivan,
neither of the plaintiffs took by descent any interest in his
real estate, for the reason suggested by the very words of the
statute, and fortified by the policy which dictated its enactment, that they were and are alien non-residents of the United
States. This construction must be adopted, Unless the object
of the act of 1855 was, for purposes of descent, to obliterate
all distinction between aliens residing in, and those residing
out of, the United States. But no such interpretation is admissible, especially in view of tile fact that the statute of
1855, upon this general subject, as well as that enacted previously thereto, was embodied in the same chapter of the general revision of 1865. The section declaring it lawful for an
alien to sell and convey, within a prescribed time, to one
capable of holding, real estate which, except for his alienage,
he would have been capable of acquiring by devise or descent,
has reference to cases not embraced by the first section of
chapter 110 ; that is, to cases in which the property would vest
at once in the State for the want of some person who could, at
common law or under the statute, inherit. Aliens of the
class described in the first section of chapter 110 could not

Oct. 1881.]

SULLIVAN V. BURNETT.

inherit at common law, but by statute they were permitted to
take by descent or purchase, holding, or selling and conveying,
as it suited their convenience to do the one or the other.
i
all those respects, aliens embraced by that section were placed
upon the same footing of equality with citizens of the United
States. But to an alien who did not have capacity to inherit
by virtue of residence in Missouri, or of residence in the
United States accompanied by a formal declaration, under oath,
of intention to become a citizen, the right was given by the
act of 1855, continued and enlarged in section 2 of chapter
110 (not to inherit and hold, as a native or naturalized citizen
could, but), to take and sell and convey to one who could hold.
Until the law of 1855 was enacted, the right of the State to
take the real estate of one who left no person in existence
capable of acquiring it, by descent, accrued immediately upon
the death of the owner. Impelled by a sense of justice, or to
meet the hardships of cases likely to arise in a new State receiving large accessions to its population from Europe, Missouri, as a partial waiver or suspension of its rights, and for no
other purpose, declared by the act of 1855 that an alien who
did not reside in Missouri, or in this country with an intention
to become a citizen of the United States, and who could not,
therefore, inherit, might, within a limited period, sell and convey to one who could take and hold.
That statute, plainly, had no reference to those aliens upon
whom had already been conferred, by statute, the capacity to
inherit ajid hold, or to sell and convey, in the same manner as
citizens of the United States.
But the contention of counsel for the plaintiffs is, that the
children of Annie and Mary Murta could not take this property, nor any interest in it, because their alien non-resident
mothers, through whom they traced relationship to the deceased,
were alive at his death ; and since the parents were incapable
of taking, for the reasons we have given, their children could
not take. Upon the basis of that conclusion, counsel advance
to the further proposition, that, if neither the plaintiffs nor the
Murta children could take by descent, the property upon the
death of the intestate escheated to the State, and the right of
the plaintiffs to take as the nearest of kin was subsequently rec-

SULLIVAN

V. BURNETT.

[Sup. Ct.

ognized and established by the first section of the act of March
30, 1872.
Although that statute was enacted within three years after
the final settlement of Edward Sullivan's estate, and although
its object was, undoubtedly, to remove the disabilities of aliens
of every class, whether resident or non-resident, to acquire real
estate in Missouri by purchase, descent, or devise, we are of.
opinion that neither of the propositions just stated can be successfully maintained. The Murta children, we have seen, were
naturalized citizens of the United States, one of them being
also a resident of Missouri. At the time descent was cast lhey
were the nearest of kin of the class of aliens who, by the first
section of chapter 110, were capable of acquiring real estate
in Missouri by descent or purchase. Their right to take by
descent was not, as we think, affected by the fact that their
respective mothers were, when the intestate died, alive, and
alien non-residents of this country, incapable themselves of inheriting the estate. The eighth section of the chapter (129)
on descents and distributions declares that " in making title
by descent it shall be no bar to a demandant that any ancestor
through whom he derives his descent from the estate is or has
been an alien." This language would seem to embrace as well
the case of one whose alien progenitor, through whom is traced
relationship to the intestate, was living when descent was cast,
as the case where such progenitor was then dead. This view
is controverted by the plaintiffs, on the authority of MeCreery's Lessee v. Somerville (9 Wheat. 354), where this court
had occasion to determine the meaning of the statute of 11 &
12 William III. c. 6, which, it is claimed, is, upon the present
point, identical with the foregoing section in the Missouri
statute of descents and distribution. It was there ruled that
the English statute (in force in Maryland, foin which State
,the case came) removed the common-law disability to claim
title through an alien ancestor, but did not apply to a liviug
alien ancestor, so as to create a title by heirship, where noue
would exist by the common law if the ancestor were a naturalborn subject. We remark, in reference to that case, that the
English statute is not accurately quoted in the opinion of the
oourt, .as an examination of 10 British Stat. at Large, 319

Oct. 1881.]

SULLIVAN

v. BURNETT.

(Pickering's ed.), will show. But without deciding that the
words omitted ought to have produced a judgment different
from that rendered, we are of opinion that the present case is
not governed by MeCreery's Lessee v. Somerville. The statnte
of Missouri which permits the demandant to inherit from an intestate, notwithstanding his ancestor, through whom he derives
his descent, is or has been an alien, must be interpreted with
reference as well to other provisions

conferring upon

aliens

the capacity to inherit real estate, as to the public policy
which manifestly induced such legislation. These provisions,
in terms, make an alien resident in Missouri, or an alien resident elsewhere in this country, intending to become a citizen,
capable of inheriting real estate by descent or purchase. In
making title by descent it may be that his ancestor is or
was an alien, without inheritable blood, either at common law
or by statute. That fact would ordinarily constitute an insuperable difficulty in the way of his taking or holding the
estate. But the statute elsewhere interposes in his behalf,
and says that he shall not be barred in tracing his descent
from the intestate, by reason of the fact that any ancestor
either is or has been an alien,-language broad enough, as
we have suggested, to include a living as well as a dead progenitor.
Unless the statute be so construed, it would result that,
while an alien residing in Missouri, having no purpose to
become a citizen of the United States, could, under the then
existing law, if the nearest of kin, inherit and hold as fully as
if he were a citizen of the United States, a naturalized citizen,
actually residing in Missouri, would be barred from taking and
holding by the fact - wholly unimportant in view of the policy
of the State- that his parent or ancestor, through whom he
must trace relationship to the intestate, was, when descent was
cast, alive and an alien non-resident of the country, or a resident of the United States, outside of Missouri, with no intention to become a citizen. We are not satisfied that such an
interpretation of the statute would be consistent with the
intention of the legislature, and we therefore reject it as unsound.
But should we be in error in this construction, there is

342

OTTAWA v. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

another ground upon which the claim of the plaintiffs must be
denied.

We have ruled that, when descent was cast, neither of the
plaintiffs had capacity to inherit, and if, as contended, the
Murta children were also barred by the fact that their respective alien mothers were then living, it would result, as counsel
concede, that the property escheated to the State immediately
upon the death of Edward Sullivan. This upon the ground
that the legal title could not be in abeyance. 2 Fearne, 20.
In that contingency, neither the plaintiffs nor the defendants
could claim any interest in the property, by virtue of the act of
1872. The Constitution of Missouri forbids the General Assembly from passing any law retrospective in its operation. Art.
1, sect. 28. And if that inhibition does not prevent the State
from releasing, under the authority of a statute and for the
benefit of individuals, any right of property it may have
acquired by escheat, it is sufficient to say that the act of 1872
contains no language clearly indicating an intention to make it
retrospective. It is, consequently, applicable alone to future
acquisitions by aliens of real estate in Missouri.
Judgment affirmed.

OTTAWA V.

NATIONAL

BANK.

1. Hackcett v. Ottawa (99 U. S. 86) cited, and the doctrines therein set forth
reaffirmed.
2. Municipal bonds in Illinois, payable to a person therein named or bearer,
are transferable by delivery without indorsement, and the bolder may sue
in his own name to recover their contents.
3. Where, without express legislative authority, they are payable at a place in
another State, qucere, What law should govern in determining the rights of
the holder who claims them by delivery only.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. C. B. Lawrence for the plaintiff in error.

Mr. G. S. -Eldredgefor the defendant in error.

