Oct. 1881.]

RUSSELL v. STANSELL.

RUSSELL v. STANSELL.
Where the land within a particular district was assessed for taxation, each
owner being liable only for the amount wherewith be was separately charged,
and the bill of complaint, filed by a number of them, praying for an injunction against the collection of the assessment, was dismissed, and they appealed
here, - leld, that the several amounts cannot be united to make up the sum
necessary to give this court jurisdiction.

to dismiss an appeal from the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of' Mississippi.
Mr. If T. Ellett in support of the motioi.
There was no opposing counsel.
MOTION

MR. CHIEF JUSTtCE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Stansell, the appellee, obtained a decree in the District Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi,
in June, 1879, against the Levee Board of Mississippi, District
No. 1, for $71,623.67. This decree being unsatisfied, he instiro
tuted summary proceedings in the same court, under the p visions of the statute creating the levee board, to obutin an
assessment and collection of the charge which was imposed on
the lands in the district for its payment. On the 7th of February, 1880, the court entered an order which resulted in an
assessment by commissioners appointed for that purpose. In
this order it was provided that any person conceiving himself
aggrieved by the action of the commissioners might, by petition
to the court, present his grievance and obtain such redress as
he should fairly be entitled to. On the 1st of February, 1881,
D. M. Russell, W. H. Stovall, and H. P. Reid appeared,
and as individuals and members of an executive committee
appointed at a mass meeting of the several owners of the lands
charged with the payment of the assessment, asked an injunction against the collection of the assessment that had been
made, setting forth in their petition why the proceedings were
illegal and unjust. The amount with which the petitioners, as
individuals, were severally charged was as follows: Russell,
$7.58 ; Stovall, $205.14 ; and Reid, who was assessed only as an

RUSSELL V. STANSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

agent or attorney, $229.29. No single individual among all
the parties represented by the committee could in any event
be made liable for an amount exceeding $2,500. On the
presentation of the petition the court granted a preliminary
injunction, but on final hearing that injunction was dissolved
and the petition dismissed. From the last order this appeal
was taken, which the appellee now moves to dismiss because
the amount in dispute between him and. any one of the several persons charged With the payment of the assessment is
less than $5,000.
While the appellants, and those whom they have been
chosen to represent; are all interested in the question on which
their liability to the appellee depends, they are separately
charged with the several amounts assessed against them. There
is no joint responsibility resting on them as a body. The proceeding on his part was to require each of the several landowners in the levee district to pay his separate share of the
debt that had been established against the district. The
recovery was against each owner separately. While the appellants were permitted, for convenience and to save expense, to
unite in a petition setting forth the grievances of which complaint was made, their object was to relieve each separate
owner from the amount for which he personally, or his property, was found to be accountable. An injunction, if granted,
would necessarily be to prevent the appellee from collecting
from each owner the amount for which he was separately
liable. It is clear that under the rulings in Paving C(ompany
v. Mu ford (100 U. S. 147), Seaver v. Bigelows (5 Wall. 208).
Rich v. Lambert (12 I-ow. 347), Stratton v. larvis (8 Pet. 4),
and Oliver v. Alexander (6 id. 143), such distinct and separate
interests cannot be united for the purpose of making up the
amount necessary to give us jurisdiction on appeal. Although
the amount due the appellee from the levee district exceeds
$5,000, his claim on the several owners of property is only
for the sum assessed against them respectively. Any owner
can relieve himself and his property from all further liability for the district by paying his part of the assessment.
Appeal dismissed.

