PAPER-BAG CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

PAPER-BAG CASES.
PAPER-BAG MACHINE COMPANY V. NIXON.
NIxON v.

PAPER-BAG MACHINE

COMPANY.

1. A party, having the absolute ownership of a patented machine, has the right
either to use it during the extended term of the letters-patent, or to transfer
such ownership and right to another.
2. A license for the exclusive use of such a machine within certain territory does
not continue longer than the term of the original letters.
3. A licensee cannot, as such, sue for an infringement, but must assert his rights
in the name of ti original patentee.
4. Where the matter in controversy is merely the costs of sit, an appeal from
the decree in which they were taxed will not be considered.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for

the Southern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. George

-ardingand 111r. John R. Bennett for the Paper-

Bag Machine Company.

Mfr. James morse and Mr. E. W. Kittredge, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

On the 280h of April, 1857, a patent was granted to Charles
11. Morgan and Benjamin R. Smith for an invention by Benjamin F. Rice of a "machine for making paper bags." This will
hereafter be referred to as the Rice patent. By agreements
entered into on the 1lth of February and 12th of August, 1859,
the owners of this patent executed to Martin Nixon, Thomas
Nixon, and William H. Chatfield, partners, under the name of
Nixon & Chatfield, a license for the exclusive use of the patented machines within certain territory, which included the
States of Ohio and Indiana. Thomas Nixon, one of the licensees, is one of tle parties to these appeals, and upon the dissolution of the firm of Nixon & Chatfield, in the year 1865, his
interest in the license passed to and became vested in Chatfield
& Woods. On the 6th of March, 1860, a reissue of this patent
was granted to Charles H. Morgan, Leonard Whitney, Jr., and
Thurston Priest. Some time about the year 1863, Francis H.

Oct. 1881.]

PAPER-BAG

CASES.

Morgan (a brother of Morgan, one of the patentees) became the
owner of one of the machines covered by this patent, with an
unrestricted license for its use. Morgan, the patentee, was for
a time a joint owner of the machine with his brother, but he
afterwards parted with his interest, and Francis 11. Morgan became the sole owner. While there is no testimony in the case
showing any instrument in writing by which the other patentees united in a license for the use of this machine, we are entirely satisfied that they gave their assent to what was done by
Charles H. Morgan, and are in no condition to claim adversely
to the license which he undertook to grant.
On the 17th of March, 1863, another patent was issued to
Charles H. Morgan for an improvement in paper-bag machines.
This will hereafter be referred to as the Morgan patent. Afterwards, Francis H. Morgan became the owner of two machines
containing the improvements embraced in this patent, with an
unrestricted license for their use. On the 26th of October,
1865, an exclusive license for the use in Philadelphia of machines embraced in both patents was granted to Francis H.
Morgan, but there is no testimony showing that his rights in
respect to the machines he already owned were confined to that
territory, and there is no doubt but that he owned all the machines now in question long before this exclusive license was
given.
On the 27th of November, 1865, which was after Thomas
Nixon had retired from the firm of Nixon & Chatfield, and
transferred all his interest in the exclusive license for the Rice
patent to the other partners, Francis II. Morgan sold and conveyed to Thomas Nixon the two Morgan machines which he
owned, and agreed to furnish on demand all other machines
of like pattern and workmanship which Nixon might want.
Nixon on his part bound himself not to use the machines he
got in this way except within the States of Ohio and Indiana,
and to pay the owner of the patent a royalty of three cents on
every thousand bags made. He also agreed not to use any
other machines in the manufacture of bags than such as he
procured under this contract.
Afterwards, on the second day of November, 1866, Nixon
wanted another machine, and called on Francis H. Morgan to

PAPER-BAG CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

furnish it under his contract. Morgan having none of the
Morgan machines on hand at the time, offered his Rice machine in the place of the one called for by the contract. This
Nixon agreed to accept, if he could be released from his obligation not to use any other than Morgan machines within his territory. Morgan thereupon stipulated accordingly, and Nixon
took the machine.
All these things were done by Francis 11. Morgan with the
full knowledge and consent of Charles II. Morgan, who was
then the sole owner of his own patent and of a half-interest in
that of Rice. An attempt was made to show the contrary of
this, but the testimony leaves no doubt in our minds as to the
fact.
Nixon took to Richmond, Indiana, all the machines he got
from Francis H. Morgan, and either himself or through others
carried on the manufacture of bags by their use. On the 21st
of April, 1871, the Rice patent was extended for seven years
from April 28, 1871, on the application of Roxana Rice, the
widow and executrix of the inventor. Mrs. Rice assigned the
extended patent to the Union Paper-Bag Machine Company,
and that company, on the 27th of June, 1871, granted to Chatfield & Woods the exclusive right to use in the States of Ohio
and Indiana maehines constructed under the patent. At the
same time the company granted to the same parties the exclusive right of using within the same territory other machines
covered by other patents which it owned, reserving a royalty
of four cents on ever-y thousand bags manufactured by any of
the machines.
On the 17th of July, 1871, after this assignment, the Bag
Company and Chatfield & Woods sued Thomas Nixon, Morris
H4. Nixon, and William Anderson, alleged to be doing business
as partners under the name of Nixon & Company, to restrain
them from using the Rice machine. The defendants answered,
denying the alleged partnership, and averring that the business
was carried on by Morris H. Nixon and William Anderson
alone, they using the machine which belonged to Thomas Nixon
and paying him a stipulated rent therefor. The suit was then
discontinued as to Thomas Nixon, and from that time it was
prosecuted alone against the other defendants. A new suit of

Oct. 1881.]

PAPER-BAG CASES.

a similar character was, however, begun against Thomas Nixon,
and the two were carried on together. InI both the suits answers were filed, denying, in effect, the validity of the patent
and the infringement ; but on the 31st of May, 1873, decrees
were entered in both cases, enjoining the defendants from using
the machine, and ordering a reference to a master to state an
account of profits and damages.
The accounting was continued before the master until the
14th of June, 1876, when Thomas Nixon paid to the Bag
Company the sum of $7,543, and took a receipt therefor, as
follows:

-

"CINCINNATI, Jne 14, 1876.
"Received of Thomas Nixon the sum of seven thousand five
hundred and forty-three dollars (7,543.00) money due under the
contract of F. It. Morgan with Thomas Nixon, dated November
27th, 1865, and in frill for the amount which the said Thnmas Nixon
reported to be due as royalties under said contract, May 10, 1876.

"$7,543.00.

UNION PAPER-BAG MAcHINE Co.,
"By EDWIN J. HOWLETT, Pres."

The hearing before the master was continued after this payment was made, and on the 23d of October, 1877, a report was
filed, in which the master stated that the period covered by his
inquiries was from June 27, 1871, the date of the exclusive
license to Chatfield & Woods, to June 9, 1875, the date of the
service of the injunction in the case. He also set forth the facts
as to the contracts with Francis H. Morgan, and the payment
of the royalties thereunder, substantially as they have already
been given. He found that the number of bags malufactured
by Nixon & Company between the dates above mentioned was
93,500,000, and that the royalty fixed by the Bag Company
for the use of all its machines was four cents a thousand.
After the report was filed, the defendants in each of the cases
asked and obtained leave to put ina supplemental answer, setting up the contract with Francis H. Morgan, and the paylnent to and acceptance by the Bag Company of the royalties
due thereunder on the 14th of June, 1876. Upon the final
hearing, after these answers were in, the court proceeded on
the evidence to state the accounts, and decreed that Chatfield
& Woods had no right on the pleadings and evidence to any
VOL. XV.

49

PAPER-BAG CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

recovery. As to the Bag Company, it was found that it was
the owner of the Rice patent; that it had an established license
fee for the use of the several patents for improvements in
paper-bag machinery, referred to in its licenses to Chatfield
& Woods, and others, of four cents a thousand bags; that this
license fee included the use of the Rice machine ; that the
Francis H. Morgan contract operated as a license to Nixon for
the use of the Morgan machines, but not of the Rice machine;
that 93,500,000 bags had been manufactured by Nixon &
Anderson, by the use of all three of the machines; that they
had already paid three cents a thousand on their royalty and
must now pay one cent a thousand more, amounting in the
aggregate to $935, for which a decree was entered against
them. From this decree both parties have appealed; the Bag
Company and Chatfield & Woods claiming that the defendants were liable to them, not for the license fee, but for the
profits they made by the use of the Rice machine, and the
defendants that the payment by Thomas Nixon of the royalty
reserved under the Francis 11. Morgan contract was a full
satisfaction of all claims that could be made on them for the
use of this machine, as well as those constructed under the
Morgan patent.
In the suit against Thomas Nixon the same general conclusions were reached as in that against Morris Nixon and Anderson, but a decree for one cent damages only was rendered
against him, because he only rented his machines to others to
be used, and did not use them himself. From this decree, also,
both parties appealed.
Upon the foregoing facts, the first question that presents
itself is whether the use of the Rice inachiio was included in
the royalty fixed by the contract of Francis H. Morgan with
Thomas Nixon. If it was, then clearly, so far as the Bag
Company is concerned, the acceptance of the stipulated royalty
was a satisfaction of all claims for damages. This was substamtially conceded on the argmnent.
The right of the owner of a patented machine, without any
conditions attached to his ownership, to continue the use of
his machine during an extended term of the patent, is well settled. Bloomer v. McQueivan, 14 How. 539; Chaffee v. Boston

Oct. 1881.]

PAPER-BAG CASES.

Belting Co., 22 id. 217; Mitchell v. Hawley, 16 Wall. 544;
Adams v. Burke, 17 id. 453. Consequently Francis I. Morgan had, by his ownership of the Rice machine, the right to
its use during the extended term of the patent. He could also
sell it to others to be used in the same way. Power to sell
the machine and transfer tie accompanying right of use is
an incident of unrestricted ownership. The contract of Morgan
was to furnish Thomas Nixon with all the Morgan machines
he wanted to use in the designated territory at the stipulated price and royalty. When called upon to furnish one of
these machines under the contract he persuaded Nixon to take
the Rice machine instead. Under these circumstances there
cannot be a doubt that it was the intention of the parties to
put the Rice machine in the place of a Morgan machine under
the contract, and that whatever compensation was to be paid
to the patentee for the use of the Morgan machine must be
paid for the use of the Rice machine. It follows that, so far
as the Bag Company is concerned, there, should have been no
decree against Nixon & Anderson. The payment of the royalty in June, 1876, was in full for the use of the Rice machine
as well as the Morgan machines.
Next, as to Chatfield & Woods. Their exclusive right to
the use of the Rice machine continued no longer than the term
of the original patent. Wilson v. Rousseau, 4 I-low. 646. The
Bag Company does not appear ever to have had any interest
in the patent before the extension. Chatfield & Woods have
never been anything else than licensees. As such they could
not sue for an infringement. All their rights must be enforced
through or in the name of the patentee. Littlefield v. Perry,
21 Wall. 205. Their recovery in this case, therefore, must be
limited to their rights under the license from the Bag Company. Such was the understanding of the master, for he distinctly states in his report that his inquiries were confined to
the period between the date of this license and the service of
the injunction which stopped all further use of the machines.
Whatever may have been the effect of the first exclusive
license held by Chatfield & Woods upon the right of Nixon
to use his Rice machine in Indiana before the end of the original term of the patent, as that license ceased when the term

PAPER-BAG CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

expired, it necessarily follows that during the extended term
no questions can arise under that license. After the extended
term began, that license did not stand in the way of the use
by Nixon of his machine wherever lie pleased, and the Bag
Company took its title subject to his rights as an unrestricted
owner, save in respect to royalties, of one of the patented
machines. Chatfield & Woods took their license subject to
They cannot claim as against
the same rights in Nixon.
Nixon more than the company could convey, and as Nixon was
in legal effect operating his machine under a valid license
superior to theirs, it follows that in this suit there can be no
recovery in their behalf. Their remedy, if they have any, is
against the company on their contract for the license, or to
secure the benefit of the royalty.
From what has thus been said it appears that the decree in
the suit against Nixon & Anderson, as far as it requires the payment of damages, was wrong. As the payment of the royalty
was not made until long after the interlocutory decree sustaining the validity of the patent, and the supplementary answer
setting up the special defence was not filed until after the
report of the master was in, it was right to charge the costs
against them.
So far as the appeal of Thomas Nixon is concerned, the controversy is really as to costs alone. The decree against him
will consequently not be considered. Canter v. American JOcean Insurance Companies, 3 Pet. 307; Elastic Fabrics Co. v.
Smith, 100 U. S. 110.
The decree in the case against Nixon & Anderson will be
reversed, with costs, and the cause remanded with instructions
to enter a decree against the defendants for one dollar only
and costs of suit. That in the suit against Thomas Nixon
alone will be affirmed, each party to pay the costs of his own
appeal; and it is
So ordered.

MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS, MR. JUSTICE GRAY, and MR.
JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

part in deciding them.

did not sit in these cases, nor take any

