Oct. 1881.]

GORDON V. BUTLER.

GORDON V. BUTLER.
A., wishing to borrow money of B., offered by way of security a mortgage upon
his real estate containing sandstone quarries, which lad not been sufficiently
le furnished, however, the certifiworked to show their extent and value.
cate of two other persons, setting forth, each for himself, that he had for
more than twenty years resided in the neighborhood of the quarries, and was
acquainted with them, and giving, in his best judgment, their value, which
was one hundred and fifty per cent more than the amount of tile loan. B.
took the mortgage and lent the money, which was not paid. Upon a sale
under a decree of foreclosure, the land brought less than one-sixth of the
amount loaned. B. thereupon sued A. and time other parties to recover damages for the loss sustained, and lie charged that they had conspired to defraud
him by a false and fraudulent certificate. Held, that the action will not lie,
the defendants not being liable for an expression of opinion, however fallacious, in regard to property the value of which depends upon contingencies
that may never occur, or developmnents that may never be made.

ElatoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern )istrict of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Leslie W. Russell for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Harry Bingkham and lMr. A. X. Parker for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action for alleged fraud upon Butler, the plaintiff below, in obtaining from him a loan of $10,000 upon insufficient security. The facts of the case, so far as necessary
to present the questions involved for our consideration, are

briefly as follows:

-

Near the town of Potsdam, in New York, there are sandstone quarries, situated on the west bank of Racket River.

The land containing them, when the loan Was made, was divided into lots, varying in size from seven to thirty-six acres.
Previously to 1873 the quarries, although generally supposed
to consist of stone valuable for building and other purposes,
had not been opened sufficiently to show their extent and
value. A quarry similar in external appearance, situated on
the river below and adjoining them, called the Partieter
quarry, had been worked for thirty or forty years, and fur-

GORDON v. BUTLER.

[Sup. Ct.

nished stone of a valuable quality in large quantities. For
some years prior to 1872 the defendant, Gordon, a resident of
Potsdam, had been assiduously trying to get possession of the
quarries, in the belief that on development they would prove
valuable, like the Parmeter quarry. His letters to Butler,
the plaintiff, written at the time, indicated a confident belief
that a fortune was to be made out of them; and he invested in
them whatever means he could raise.
The plaintiff, prior to 1872, had frequently visited Potsdam,
where he became acquainted with Gordon, a lawyer in pracDuring
tice there, and often employed him professionally.
these visits he learned something of the quarries, and that
Gordon desired to obtain possession of and develop them. In
that year there was much correspondence between them on the
subject. Gordon expressed a strong conviction that the stone
would be very valuable, and find a ready market, and stated
what he had beard of the buildings on which it had been
used, ahld of those for which it would probably be wanted.
He desired to organize a stock company to work the quarries,
Failing to
and to have the plaintiff join in the enterprise.
secure his co-operation, and being advised by him that he had
better work the quarries himself, Gordon applied for a loan for
that purpose. After much correspondence and negotiation,
the plaintiff promised to loan him $10,000, to be secured by
mortgage on some of the lots, and advised him against investing a larger sum in them. The plaintiff, as is manifest
from the correspondence, was fully aware at the time of the
slightly developed condition of the property; but an estimate of its probable value was furnished by the following
certificate obtained by Gordon from the defendants Watkins
and Foster, well-known gentlemen of the place, and sent to
him : "Each of the undersigned hereby certifies that be is and has
been for more than twenty years last past a resident of Potsdarn,
St. Lawrence Co., New York, and acquainted with the sandstone
quarries south of Potsdam village ; that lie is acquainted with the
quarry lots there owned by S. B. Gordon, and situate on the westerly shore of Rtacket River; that said lots are roughly relresented
on the annexed diagramn; have on them the buildings, and in his

Oct. 1881.]

555

GORDON V. BUTLER.

best judgment contain the quantity of land, and are worth the sums
severally below cited, to wit:
"No. 1 - Falls Lot .......
" 2-Orchard Lot ...

3-Cox

"

.

.....
.

.....

4-

Hicks
" .....
.
" 5 - Meacham " house
and
barn ...
......
" 6-Hale Lot ...
......
" 7- Parmeter Lot 2 houses
and barns......
"

8 -Train

Lot ....

......

Total, 8 lots.
"Dated Potsdam, Dec. 12, 1872.

about 8 acres, worth $8,000
"
4 "
"
5,000
" 16 "
"
8,000
"
15 "
"
5,000
"
"

7
10

"
"

"
"

5,000
1,000

"

17

"

"

8,000

"

26

"

"

8,000

103

$48,000

".

NVAvuwuIS.

" E. W.

FOSTER."

No oral representations on the subject were made to the
plaintiff by Watkins or Foster. Their connection with the
loan consisted merely in furnishing this certificate at the request of Gordon. The loan was made on the first of the following January, and a mortgage taken as security for it upon
four of the lots mentioned in the certificate, the aggregate value
of which, as there stated, being $26,000. Watkins and Foster
were at the time interested in the proposed enterprise ; and
their estimate of value was placed upon the lots, not as agricultural lands, but as lands containing sandstone quarries not yet
opened.
After receiving the loan Gordon proceeded to open the quarries, and his operations had not progressed far when the financial crisis of 1873 came, and in it his enterprise was engulphed.
The work on the quarries was stopped, and the value of the
property rapidly depreciated. The mortgage to the plaintiff
contained a clause declaring that the whole amount of the loan
should at once become due if the interest was not punctually
paid. Taking advantage of this clause, lie commenced proceedings to foreclose the mortgage, and pressed them to a decree
under which the premises were sold and bid in by him for the
sum of $1,500. He then commenced the present action against

GORDON v. BUTLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Gordon, who had obtained the loan, and Watkins and Foster,
who had given the certificate as to the value of the property,
to recover damages for the loss sustained by him. In his cornplaint he alleges that these parties conspired to defraud him by
obtaining the loan upon a false and fraudulent certificate as to
the value of the property.
The defendants pleaded the general issue. On the trial the
plaintiff produced the correspondence between hini and Gordon,
which resulted in the loan. He also offered the testimony of
geologists, experts, and laborers as to the probable character
and value of the material in the quarries. The whole, including the correspondence, covers many pages of the record, but
its substance and purport, so far as it is at all material, we have
stated. When it was closed, the defendants requested the court
to direct the jury to find for them on several grounds, and,
among others, that, upon the whole proof, no cause of action
had been established against them. The court refused to give
this direction, and an exception was taken. Testimony was
then produced by the defendants; and, after instructions from
the court, the ease was submitted to the jury, who found for
the plaintiff.
We do not deem it important to comment upon this testimony, or to notice the rulings of the court upon matters which
were objected to, nor upon its instructions to the jury. It is
enough to observe that if the testimony did not weaken, it did
not strengthen, the case against the defendants. The question
then is whether, upon the proof furnished by the plaintiff, a
cause of action was established against the defendants; for, if
not, the motion to direct the jury to find in their favor should
have been granted. Upon this question we have no doubt.
The essence of the charge against thein is a conspiracy to defraud the plaintiff, carried into execution by a false and fraudulent certificate of valuation of the property given as security for
the loan. The certificate of Watkins and Foster is that, in the
bestjudgment of each, the lots were worth the sums severally
stated. To justify any imputation of fraud in giving the-certificate, it was necessary to show that the parties signing it had
knowledge, at the time, that the value of the property was
materially less than their estimate. And from the nature of

Oct. 1881.]

GORDON

V. BUTLER.

the property, and its imperfectly developed condition, such
knowledge was impossible. No one could know its actual value
until further development was made. Until then, any estimate must have been entirely speculative and conjectural. It
would depend as much, perhaps, upon the temperament and expectations of the party making it, as upon any knowledge of
facts. The law does not hold one responsible for the extravagant notions he may entertain of the value of property, dependent upon its future successful exploitation, or the result of
future enterprises ; nor for expressing them to one acquainted
with its general character and condition. Ilow could an overestimate in such a ease be shown? Other estimates would he
equally conjectural. The law does not fasten responsibility
upon one for expressions of opinion as to matters in their nature contingent and uncertain. Such opinions will probably
be as variant as the individuals who give them utterance. A
statement of an opinion assigning a certain value to property
like a mine or a quarry not yet opened is not to be pronounced
fraudulent because the property upon subsequent development
may prove to be worthless ; nor is it to be pronounced honest
because the property may turn out of much higher value.
The case of Holl roo/r v. Connor, which arose in the Supreme
Court of Maine, illustrates this doctrine. There the vendor
and his agent represented, among other things, that lands sold
by them contained large deposits of oil, and were of great value
for the purpose of digging, boring for, and manufacturing it;
and upon the representations the purchasers acted. The evidence tended to show that the representations were false and
fraudulent, and the plaintiff obtained a verdict; but the Supreme Court set it aside. It appeared that the land had not
been tested; and it was unknown to both parties whether it
was valuable as oil land, except so far as might be inferred from
the production of wells on neighboring lands, and a single well
upon the land in question. The court held that under these
circumstances the representation was to be regarded as a matter of opinion, and would not support the action. 60 Me.
578.
Whenever property of any kind depends for its value upon
contingencies which may never occur, or developments which

GORDON

v.

BUTLER.

[Sup. Ct.

may never be made, opinion as to its value must necessarily be
more or less of a speculative character; and no action will lie
for its expression, however fallacious it may prove, or whatever
the injury a reliance upon it may produce. The determination
of its truth or falsity, until the contingency occurs or becomes
impossible, would lead the court into investigations for which
they have no fixed rules to guide their own judgments or to
instruct juries.

For opinions upon matters capable of accurate estimation by
application of mathematical rules or scientific principles, such,
for example, as the capacity of boilers, or the strength of materials, the case may be different. So, also, for opinions of parties possessing special learning or knowledge upon the subjects
in respect to which their opinions are given, as of a mechanic
upon the working of a machine he has seen in use, or of a lawyer upon the title of property which lie has examined. Opinions upon such matters are capable of approximating to the
truth, and for a false statement of them, where deception is
designed, and injury has followed from reliance on them, an

action may lie. But to this class the present case does not
belong. It falls within the class first mentioned.
It follows from these views, that the court below should have
directed the jury, upon the close of the plaintiff's testimony, to
find a verdict for the defendants; for, from the nature of the
subject, in relation to which the certificate was given, the estimate of value was nothing more than a conjectural opinion,
which, whether true or false, constituted no legal cause of
complaint.
The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be reversed,
and the cause remanded for a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

