SMITH V. FIELD.

SMITH

V.

[Sup. Ct.

FIELD.

A. imported goods invoiced as " white linen torchon laces and insertings," which,
as "thread lace and insertings," were, he claimed, subject to a duty of thirty
per cent ad valorem, under schedule C of sect. 2504, Rev. Stat. Ile paid,
under protest, forty per cent, the duty prescribed by that schedule on manu-

factures of which flax is "the component material of chief value not otherwise provided for," and he brought suit against the collector. The court
instructed the jury to determine from the evidence whether the goods were
"thread lace" such as the schedule describes, and, if they were not, to finl
for the defendant. The jury found for A. Ileld, that the instruction was

correct.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted by The Solicitor-General for the plaintiff in error,
and by Mir. Edward S. Isham, Mr. E. B. Smith, and M'. John
ff. Thompson for the defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

In 1878 the defendant in the court below was collector of
customs for the port of Chicago, and this action is brought to
recover from him the amount of certain duties alleged to have
been illegally imposed in that year upon goods of the plaintiffs.
It appears that the plaintiffs imported into the United States,
from France, certain articles invoiced as " white linen torehon
laces and insertings ;" that they were brought by steamship to
New York, thence transported to Chicago under internal transportation bonds, and there entered ; that the defendant, as collector, decided thtt the goods were subject to a duty of forty
per cent ad valorem, under schedule C of sect. 2504 of the
Revised Statutes, as a manufacture of flax, or of which flax
was a component material of chief value " not otherwise provided for," and exacted that duty. The plaintiffs claimed
that the goods were subject to a duty of only thirty per cent
ad valorem, as " thread lace and insertings," which is the
amount prescribed in the same schedule for articles of that
kind. They paid the difference, ten per cent, under protest,
and brought this action to recover back the amount.

Oct. 1881.]

SMITH V. FIELD.

On the trial, the chief point in controversy was whether the
laces in question were embraced in the description of " thread
laces" in the schedule ; for, if so, the duties upon them were
fixed at thirty per cent ad valorein, and they were not subject
to the duty exacted, of forty per cent, as a nianufacture of flax,
or of which flax was a component part of chief value "not
otherwise provided for."
The evidence produced by plaintiffs tended to show that the
terms "thread lace and insertings," as used and understood
among commercial men of the country, included all laces made
of thread on a cushion, with bobbins moved by band, in distinction from laces made by machinery or with needles ; that
they have a special name attached to them, such as point lace,
torchon lace, Smyrna lace, and the like, by which their style
and kind are indicated; and that torchon laces, though a very
old kind, and not imported to any considerable extent until
within a few years past, were generally known as thread laces,
and were such in fact.
The evidence produced by the defendant tended to show
that there was a class of laces known to commerce, and to
dealers, as thread laces, made by hand on cushions with bobbins, and more particularly designated as English, French, or
German laces, which were supposed to be made of linen thread,
but which were in fact composed chiefly of a fine cotton thread,
with only one large linen thread running through the pattern to
mark the figures; that torchon laces were not known as " thread
laces," but only by their special designation ; and that torchon
and Smyrna laces and some Saxony laces were all that were
made of linen thread by hand on cushions with bobbins.
The court left it to the jury to determine whether the
torchon lace imported by the plaintiffs was " thread lace,"
such as is meant and described in the statute ; and instructed
them that if it did not come under that general designation,
they should find for the defendant; that it made no difference
whether the lace was known to commerce at the time the
law was enacted; that, if brought into use afterwards, and
yet came under the general designation of " thread lace," the
government must accept the duty imposed by the law upon
that article.

MATHEWS

V. MACHINE

Co.

[Sup. Ct.

The defendant requested a special instruction, that if the
jury believed from the evidence that the torehon lace did not
come within the class known as thread lace, designated and intended as such by the statute when it was enacted, they should
find that it was not a thread lace. This instruction the court
refused to add to that already given, and an exception was
taken. The jury found for the plaintiffs, and the case is
brought here for review.
The record does not disclose any error. The instruction of
the court was correct. The special instruction asked was substantially a repetition of that given, and, therefore, unnecessary ; there was evidence upon which the jury could find its
verdict, and no legal reason is shown why it should be disturbed. The judgment is, therefore,
Affrmed.

MATHEWS V. MACHINE COMPANY.
1. Letters-patent No. 4887, bearing date April 30, 1872, granted to Washburn
Race and S. R. C. Mathews for an improvement in hydrants, being a reissue of letters No. 19,206, dated Jan. 26, 1858, are void, inasmuch as, by
claiming the elements of the invention separately and not ,s a combination,
which is claimed in the original letters, they enlarge the scope of the latter, and they also cover a different invention. Miller v. Brass Compony
(104 U. S. 350.)
cited and approved.
2. Letters-patent No. 96,959, bearing date Nov. 16, 1869, granted to said Race
and Mathews for an improvement in hydrants, are also void, as they
embrace matters previously known and in public use.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. George L. Roberts and Mr. George Harding for the
appellants.
'Mr. Causten Browne for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes before us on an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill in equity filed by Samuel It.C. Mathews and

