60

TAYLOR V. YPSILANTI.

TAYLOR

[Sup. Ct.

V. YPSILANTI.

1. Under a statute of Michigan of March 22, 1869, authorizing cities to pledge
their aid, "by loan or donation, with or without conditions," in the construction of any railroad by a company organized under the laws of the State,
the electors of a city voted to issue its bonds to aid such a company upon
certain conditions, touching the eastern terminus of the road, and providing
that if any citizen should subscribe and pay for stock in the company the
latter should deliver him such bonds therefor, and that the citizens should,

within thirty days, have the right to subscribe for the stock to the amount
of aid voted. The bonds were delivered to the company. Held, that the
conditions were not unauthorized by the statute, and constitute no defence

to an action on the bonds.
2. The court adheres to tile ruling in Townshp qf Pine Grove v. Talcott (19 Wall.
666), and measures the rights and obligations of the parties under tile
statute in question, as it was there enforced, and as it was acted upon by
all the departments of the State government at and before the time when
the company earned the bonds by the performance of the prescribed conditions. The court, therefore, declines to accept the subsequent adjudications of the Supreme Court of Michigan, declaring the statute to be
repugnant to the Constitution of the State.
3. The courts of the United States, in cases within their jurisdiction involving
contract obligations and rights depending upon the laws of the State, will
conform to the settled construction which the highest court of the State
gave to those laws at the time when tile rights accrued or the obligations
were incurred.

ERR OR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. George F. Edmunds and Mr. Elijah Meddaugh for the
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Hiram J. Bealces for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by Taylor, a citizen of New York,
to recover from the city of Ypsilanti, a muuicipal corporation of Michigan, the amount of certain coupons cut fron

bonds issued by that city in aid of the construction of the
Detroit, Hillsdale, and Indiana Railroad.
At the conclttsion of the evidence, the jury, being so instructed, returned
a verdict in behalf of the city, upon which judgment was
entered.

Oct. 1.881. ]

TAYLOR V. YPSILANTI.

The bonds purport to have been issued under the authority
of a general statute, approved March 22, 1869, declaring it to
be lawful, within prescribed limits as to amount., for any city
or township - a majority of its electors voting, at a meeting
called for that purpose, assenting - to pledge its aid, " by loan
or donation, with or without conditions," in the construction of
any railroad by a corporation organized under the laws of
Michigan. The electors voted aid to the extent of $50,000
in bonds of the city, upon condition that the company should
have and continue the eastern terminus of its road in the city,
or connect, within its limits, with the Michigan Central Railroad ; and upon the further condition, that if any citizen of
Ypsilanti should subscribe and pay for any share in the stock
of the company, the latter " shall deliver to the persons so subscribing and paying for such share the bond or bonds of said
city equal to the amount so subscribed and paid for, not exceeding in all the amount of bonds issued by said city to said
railroad company ; and that citizens of said city shall have the
right to subscribe to the stock of said railroad company to an
amount not exceeding $50,000 for thirty days after such aid
shall have been voted." Upon each bond appears a declaration, under the official signature of the mayor and clerk of the
city, setting forth the conditions attached by the popular vote
to the issue and delivery of the bonds.
In support of the judgment, it is contended that the city, in
giving aid to the construction of a railroad, was restricted to
the specific modes - loan or donation - designated in the statute; that this transaction was neither a loan nor a donation;
that it is essential to a donation that it should not be made
for a valuable consideration, or in execution of a contract embracing reciprocal obligations, since, in a legal sense, it implies
an act by Which the owner of a thing voluntarily transfers the
title and possession of the same from himself to another person without any consideration; and, consequently, the city was
without power to issue bonds upon conditions such as those
imposed by the electors. It is argued that the conditions are
inconsistent with any correct idea of donation, and that the
bonds based thereon are unauthorized by law, and therefore
invalid as obligations of the city.

TAYLOR V. YPSILANTI.

[Slip. Ct.

In this conclusion we are unable to concur. The argument
of counsel fails to give proper effect to material portions of the
statute. Power was conferred, not simply to make a loan or
donation, but to make a loan or donation " with or without
conditions." The statute is silent as to the nature of the conditions with which the loan or donation might be accompanied.
It was, in our opinion, a legitimate exertion of that power to
secure, in connection with a corporate donation, such advantages or special privileges for the people of the municipality,
not inconsistent with public policy, as the railroad company
was willing to concede. The requirement that the company
should have and continue the eastern terminus of its road in
the city, or connect, within its limits, with the Michigan Central Railroad, inured to the benefit of the mass of the population interested in the growth and prosperity of the city; while
the stipulation that citizens of Ypsilanti should be entitled, for
a limited period, - thirty days, - to receive the city s bonds to
an amount equal to the stock they might subscribe and pay for
(not exceeding the amount of the bonds donated), was of value
to such persons only as chose to avail themselves of the privilege thus secured. If the transaction has any element of
bounty to individual citizens, and was not, for that reason, a
donation, within the technical meaning of that word, it is quite
sufficient to say that it is within the express statutory authority to attach conditions to any donation which the people might
sanction. We are, therefore, of opinion that the donation by
the city of its bonds, upon the condition prescribed by popular
vote, was within the terms of the statute.
This brings us to the consideration of the proposition advanced in behalf of the city, that the act of March 22, 1869,
is repugnant to the Constitution of Michigan, as expounded by
its highest judicial tribunal, in People v. Salem, 20 Mich. 452;
Bay City v. State Treasurer,23 id. 499, and subsequent cases.
These adjudications, it is claimed, constitute the law of this
case, and should be followed, as of obligation, without reference to the time when they were made, or to any opinion
we may entertain as to the soundness of the principles announced.
The specific provisions which, it is supposed, establish the

Oct. 1881.]

TAYLOR V. YPSILANTI.

invalidity of the act in question are sections six, eight, and
nine of article fourteen, and section thirty-two of article six.
They declare that "the credit of the State shall not be granted
to, or in aid of, any person, association, or corporation ;" that
"the State shall not subscribe to, or be interested in, the stock
of any company, association, or corporation ; " that " the State
shall not be a party to, or interested in, any work of internal
improvement, nor engaged in carrying on any such work, except in the expenditure of grants to the State of land or other
property;" and that " no person shall be . . . deprived of
life, liberty, or property without due process of law." These
sections constitute a part of the Constitution of 1850, which is
still the fundamental law of the State.
It is not to be questioned that the Supreme Court of Michigan, in the cases cited, has ruled that it was beyond the constitutional power of the legislature to grant to a municipal
corporation authority to pledge its credit, or issue bonds, in
aid of the construction of railroads by corporations organized,
owned, and managed by private persons. Before examining
the particular grounds upon which those decisions rest, it is
necessary that we should ascertain what was, at the date of the
passage of the act of March 22, 1869, the law of Michigan, declared and acted upon by the several departments of its government, upon the general subject of the relations between railroad
corporations and the public. The earliest case, to which our
attention has been called, is Swan v. JVillianms, 2 Mich. 427.
It was determined in 1852. The constitutional validity of an
act incorporating a railroad company, in so far as it authorized
the appropriation of private property for the location, construetion, and operation of the road authorized by its charter, was
there assailed chiefly upon the ground that property, so appropriated, is in no sense taken for public purposes, but for the
private profit and advantage of the corporators. But the court
declined to accede to that view. It held that counties, towns,
cities, and villages are political or municipal corporations
which, from their nature, are subject to the unlimited control
of the legislature ; that corporations such as banking, insurance,
manufacturing, and trading companies were private corporations, the private advantage of the corporators being the ulti-

TAYLOR V. YPSILANTI.

[Sup, Ct.

mate as well as the immediate object of their creation, and the
resulting benefits to the public being merely incidental ; and
that turnpike, bridge, canal, and railroad companies are more
properly styled public corporations, since, in their creation,
public duties and public interests are involved, the discharge of
those duties and the attainment of those interests being the
primary object to be worked out through the powers delegated
to them. The very existence of the latter, said the court, was
based as well upon the delegation to them of the sovereign
power to take private property for public use, as upon the continned exercise of that power in the use of property for the
purposes for which it was condemned; that such corporations
are the means employed to carry into execution a given power;
that the character of a corporation is determined, not so much
by the object sought by it, as by that designed by the legislature; that if that object be the public interest, to be secured
by the exercise of powers, delegated for that purpose, which
would otherwise repose in the State, the corporation is public,
although private interests may be incidentally promoted; that
such a corporation is essentially " the trustee of the government for the promotion of the objects desired, a mere agent to
which authority is delegated to work out the public interest
through the means provided for that purpose and broadly distinguished from one created for the attainment of no public end,
and from which no benefit accrues to the community except
such as results incidentally, and not necessarily, from its operations." That there might be no doubt as to the scope of the
decision, Martin, J., speaking for the whole court, further said:
"Nor can it be said that the property when taken is not used
by the public, but by the corporators for their own profit and
advantage. It is unquestionably true that these enterprises
may be, and probably always are, undertaken with a view to
private emolument on the part of the corporators; but it is
nevertheless true that the object of the government in creating
them is public utility, and that private benefit, instead of being
the occasion of the grant, is but the reward springing from the
services. If this be not the correct view, then we confess we
are unable to find any authority in the government to accontplish any work of public utility through any private medium, or

Oct. 1881.]

TAYLOR V. YPSILANTI.

by delegated authority; yet all past history tells us that governments have more frequently effected these purposes through
the aid of companies and corporations than by their immediate
agents, and all experience tells us that this is the most wise
and economical method of securing these improvements ...
The purpose designed by the government in the construction
of these roads is the use of the public, the expeditious communication from point to point, and not revenue."
In 1859 the legislature of Michigan passed an act providing
for the payment from the State treasury of a certain sum, by
way of bounty, for every bushel of salt manufactured by any
individual, company, or corporation, from water obtained by
boring in Michigan, and exempting from taxation property
used for such purposes. Laws Mich., 1859, p. 551. That law
was subsequently amended, and in People v. State Auditors
(9 Mich. 327), decided in 1861, it was held that the relators, a manufacturing company, acquired a vested right to
the amount, offered by the original act, for all salt mnanufactured prior to the amendatory statute reducing the bounty.
And the doctrines of that case were reaffirmed in East Sayinaw Januf. Co. v. City of East Saginaw, &e. (19 id. 259),
decided in 1869, after the passage of the act of March 22,
1869.
The diligence of counsel, aided by our own researches, has
not disclosed any adjudication of the Supreme Court of Michigan, prior to May 26, 1870, in which the doctrines of these
cases were recalled or, in any degree, modified, - doctrines
constituting, as will not be denied, the foundation upon which,
in the courts of this country, rests the power of the legislature,
when unrestrained by constitutional inhibitions, to authorize
municipal aid to railroad enterprises.
So far as the action of the legislative and executive departments of Michigan is concerned, we find that from the adoption of the Constitution of 1850 down to the passage of the act
in question, authority was given, in many instances, to municipal corporations to aid in the construction of railroads and
plank-roads by corporations organized and managed by private
persons. And by a general statute passed in 1855, providing
for the incorporation of railroad companies, authority was given
VOL. XV.

5

TAYLOR V. YPSILANTI.

[Sup. Ct.

to condemn real estate, property, and franchises for the purposes of the corporation, making compensation therefor in the
mode prescribed. That statute expressly declares that "all
real estate or property whatsoever, acquired by any company,
under and in pursuance of this act, for the purpose of its incorporation, shall be deemed to be acquired for public use."
Compiled Laws of Mich., 1857, vol. i. pp. 638, 643. It was in
force when the act of March 22, 1869, was passed. But this is
not all. In the year 18t67 a convention was held, charged with
the duty of revising the (onstilution of the State. The delegates in that body were of course aware of the existence of
numerous statutes, public and private, authorizing railroad corporations to condemn private property for the purpose of constructing and maintaining railroads, and empowering municipal
corporations of the State to pledge their credit in aid of their
If such legislation was in opposition to the
construction.
will of the people, or if it was deemed to be forbidden by
the letter or spirit of the existing constitution, to remodel
which was the object of the convention, we should expect to
find in the new constitution some distinct provision reversing
the policy which had been steadily pursued by the legislative and executive departments of the State, and which had
been sustained as constitutional by the judiciary. But no such
provision was adopted. On the contrary, two sections were
adopted, relating to the subject of municipal aid to railroads,
one declaring that " the legislature shall not authorize any city
or township to pledge its credit, for the purpose of aiding in
the construction of any railroad to such an extent that the
outstanding indebtedness, exclusive of interest, on account of
aid to any and all railroads, shall exceed ten per cent of the
assessed valuation of such city or township ; " while the other
affi rmatively declared that the legislature might authorize any
city or township to raise money by taxation, for such purposes,
within the amount named. Although the constitution submitted by the convention of 1867 was not adopted by the people,
the sections, to which we have referred, adopted by delegates
representing every portion of the State, show that there was no
purpose to take from the legislature the power, under all circumnstances, of authorizing municipal aid to railroad corpora-

Oct. 1881.]

TAYLOR V. YPSILANTI.

tions. The effort was only to restrict the power theretofore
exercised by the legislature.
The act of March 22, 1869, contains no clause of an unusual
character. It is general in its application to all the townships,
villages, and cities of the State. It requires all bonds executed
under its provisions to be delivered to the State treasurer, to
be by him held, as trustee for the municipality and the railroad
company, until all the conditions prescribed by popular vote or
by the statute were performed. It declares that the railroad
company for which the bonds were voted shall be entitled to
receive them whenever the governor certified that all conditions
have been performed. The bonds having been deposited with
the State treasurer, the company entered upon the work of construction in the winter of 1869-70. The road was completed
prior to Jan. 1, 1871, and has been in operation ever since.
But prior to May 26, 1870, it had been so far constructed that
the railroad company became entitled under its contract to the
bonds voted by the city of Ypsilanti. And on the 10th of
June, 1870, the governor gave his certificate under the State
seal, stating that the company had performed all conditions
prescribed by the statute, and by the vote of the people, and
was entitled to receive the bonds voted by the city. On the
21st of June, 1870, the treasurer delivered them to the coinpany, indorsing upon each that it was delivered by him, on
that day, under the provisions of the act of March 22, 1.869.
Thus the city and the railroad company received all for which
they respectively bargained.
On the twenty-sixth day of May, 1870, - after, let it be observed, the railroad company had earned the bonds under its
contract with the city, and was entitled to the required certificate from the governor,- the case of Peopl)e v. ,Salem was determined in the Supreme Court of the State.
It involved the
constitutional validity of an act passed in 1864, authorizing celtain townships to pledge their credit, and the county of Livingston to raise by tax a loan of money, in aid of the construction
of a railroad. The court, Graves, J., dissenting, held the act
to be unconstitutional.
The point was distinctly made in
argument that municipal aid to railroads was prohibited by
sects. 6, 8, and 9 of art. 14 'of the State Constitution. It wa,,

TAYLORt

v. YPSILANTI.

[Sup. Ct.

claimed that those sections would be rendered ngatory if
so construed as to recognize the power of the legislature to
authorize, or compel, each city and township in the State to
grant or loan its credit to, or subscribe to the stock of, railroad
or other companies, to the amount of a fixed or uniform percentage of the assessed valuation of its taxable property. But
the court did not rest its decision upon any specific provision
of the State Constitution. Its conclusion was placed upon what
were declared to be fundamental maxims of all taxation. It
held the exercise, by a municipal corporation, of the power to
pledge its credit to be an incipient step in the exercise of taxation ; that it is essential to a valid exercise of the power of
taxation that it be for a public purpose ; that a corporation
created for the purpose of constructing a railway, to be owned
and operated by the corporators, is a private corporation ; that
taxation for such a purpose is no more for a public purpose
than would be taxation in behalf of the proprietors of a mill,
or hotel, or newspaper establishment, or other similar enterprise, which, while private in its nature, supplied a public need.
The conclusion of the court was distinctly placed upon general
principles, and not upon grounds of local law or upon any
special provision of the State Constitution, as is manifest from
the last paragraph in the leading opinion, in these words : " As,
therefore, it appears that the first and most fundamental maxim
of taxation is violated by the act in question, it becomes superfluous to consider whether the act would also violate the maxim
of apportionment, or be obnoxious in its application, because
the burden, even if public, could not also be regarded as local
and peculiar to this township. Equally supeiluous is it to
consider in detail the several express provisions of the State
Constitution which the respondents suppose to be violated. If
the authority exercised is not within the taxing power of the
State, it is quite needless to discuss whether, if it were within
it, there are not restrictions which prohibit its exercise." The
conclusion in that case, as thereafter declared in Bay City v.
State Treasurer, struck at the root of all legislation in aid of
railroad companies.
We remark in passing that the doctrines of People v. Salem
were, when announced, in direct conflict with those previously

Oct. 1881.]

TAYLOR V. YPSILANTI.

promulgated as well by this court, as by the highest courts
of a large majority of the States. It was said by Mr. Justice Clifford, speaking for the court, in Rogers v. Burlington
(3 Wall. 654), decided in 1865, that the rule that the
legislature, in the absence of constitutional prohibitions, could
authorize municipalities to aid in the construction of railways,
owned and managed by private corporations, pervaded the
jurisprudence of the United States. We will not, at this late
day, enter upon the vindication of that rule. And we may
add, that, under the later doctrines announced by the Supreme
Court of Michigan, it is difficult to perceive how railroads can
be regarded as public highways, subject, in the interest of the
public, to governmental control and regulation.
Subsequently, in Bay City v. State Treasurer, the Supreme
Court of Michigan reaffirmed the doctrines of People v. Salem.
In that case, however, the invalidity of municipal aid and taxation for the construction of railroads by railroad corporations
was apparently placed upon these additional grounds: 1. That
such taxation, being inadmissible under the fundamental principles announced in People v. Salem, was to be deemed unlawful confiscation, and, therefore, inhibited by sect. 32 of art. 6
of the State Constitution, protecting all persons against depriv-ation of property without due process of law; 2. That taxation for such purposes was also in violation of sects. 6, 8, and 9
of art. 14 of the State Constitution. It is unnecessary to
notice the declarations of the State court in subsequent cases,
since they are in line with those made in the two to which we
have referred.
In January, 1872, Talcott v. Township qf Pine Grove was
determined in favor of the plaintiff in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Michigan. The
question there was as to the constitutional validity of the identical act of March 22, 1869, under the authority of which the
bonds in suit were issued. That court, the circuit and district
judges concurring, declined to follow the case of People v.
Salem, upon the ground, among others, that the act was valid
as well under the laws of Michigan, declared and acted upon
by all the departments of the State government at the time
of its passage, as under the principles announced in this courta

70

TAYLOR V. YPSILANTI.

[Sup. Ct.

and in the highest courts of most of the States. Upon writ
of error the judgment was affirmed in this court at its October Term, 1873. Township of Pine Grove v. Talcott, 19 Wall.
666. In the argument here attention was called to the decisions in People v. Salevm and Bay City v. kS'tate Trea,%trer,
and it was earnestly contended to be the duty of the courts
of the Union to accept the declarations of the State court as
to the want of power in municipal corporations of Michigan to pledge their credit or aid in the construction of railroads by corporations owned and managed by private persons.
After adverting to the principle that a statute was not to
be pronounced void unless the repugnancy to the Constitution be clear and the conclusion that it exists inevitable, this
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Swayne, affirmed the judgment,
holding the act to be consistent with the Constitution of
Michigan. Railroad Company v. County of Otoe, 16 Wall. 667;
Olcott v. The Supervisors, id. 678. Under the circumstances, it
was said that we could not yield to the authority of the decisions of the State court without abdicating the performance
of one of the most important duties with which this tribunal is
charged.
Of the bonds here in suit, Taylor became the purchaser, for
a valuable consideration, in the year 1877. He was aware, at
the time of his purchase, of the before-mnentioned decisions of
the Supreme Court of Michigan, adjudging municipal aid to
railroad corporations to be forbidden by law, and bonds issued
therefor to be invalid. But it is to be presumed lie was also
aware that this court, affirming the judginent of the Circuit
Court of the United States, sitting in that State, had, at a subsequent period, and long before his purchase, distinctly refused
to follow the later decisions of the State court, and had adjudged the act of March 22, 1869, to be in conformity with the
fundamental law of Michigan. The present case then appears
to be this: Testing the rights and obligations of the parties by
the law of the State as declared by this court, and as declared
and acted upon by all the departments of the State government, at and before the time when the railroad company
entered upon the execution of its contract with the city, we
should be obliged to reverse the judgment of the court below ;

Oct. 1881.]

TAYLOR V. YPSILANTI.

whereas, if we accept the decision of the Supreme Court of
Michigan, made after those rights accrued and after the railroad company had earned the bonds, as conclusive evidence of
the constitutional invalidity of the act of March 22, 1869, the
judgment must be affirmed.
The position taken by counsel for the city is that the established settled construction, given by the highest court of a
'atate, of the laws and Constitution of that State, must be
deemed, in all cases, binding upon the courts of the Union
this, because the statute defining and regulating the jurisdiction
of the Federal courts declares that the laws of the several
States, when they apply, shall constitute rules of decision in
cases at common law tried in those courts. This proposition,
in the general terms in which it is announced, is undoubtedly
supported by the language of some of the opinions which have
emanated from this court. But all along through the reports
of our decisions are to be found adjudications in which, upon
the fullest consideration, it has been held to be the duty of the
Federal courts, in all cases within their jurisdiction, depending
upon local law, to administer that law, so far as it affects contract obligations and rights, as it was judicially declared to be
by the highest court of the State at the time such obligations
were incurred or such rights accrued. And this doctrine is no
longer open to question in this court. It has been recognized
for more than a quarter of a century as an established exception
to the general rule that the Federal courts will accept or adopt
the construction which the State courts give to their own Constitution and law s. "The sound and true rule,' said Mr. Chief
Justice Taney, inOhio Life Lns.O o. v. Debolt (16 How. 416,432),
"isthat if the contract when made is valid by the laws of the
State, as then expounded by all the departments of its governnent, and administered in its courts of justice, its validity and
obligation cannot be impaired by any subsequent act of the
legislature of the State, or decision of its courts, altering the
construction of the law." So in The City v. Lamson (9 Wall.
477, 485), Mr. Justice Nelson, speaking for the court, said:
" It is urged, also, that the Supreme Court of Wisconsin has
held that th act of the legislature conferring authority upon
the city to lend its credit, and issue the bonds in question, was

TAYLOR V. YPSILANTI.

[Sup. Ct.

in violation of the provisions of the Constitution above referred
to. But at the time this loan was made and these bonds were
issued, the decisions of the courts of the State favored the
validity of the law. The last decision cannot, therefore, be
followed."
Again, in Olcott v. The Sq)ervisors (supra), the court, speaking through 1Ir. Justice Strong, said: " This couft has always
ruled that if a contract when made was valid under the constitution and laws of a State, as they had been previously expounded by its judicial tribunals, and as they were understood
at the time, no subsequent action by the legislature, or the
judiciary, will be regarded by this court as establishing its
invalidity." To the like effect are some very recent decisions
of this court. In Douglass v. County of Pike (101 U. S. 677),
upon a review of some of the previous cases, the court, speaking by the present Chief Justice, said that " the true rule is to
give a change of judicial construction in respect to a statute
the same operation on contracts and existing contract rights
that would be given to a legislative amendment ; that is to say,
make it prospective, but not retroactive. After a statute has
been settled by judicial construction, the construction becomes,
so far as contract rights acquired under it are concerned, as
much a part of the statute as the text itself; and a change of
decision is to all intents and purposes the same in its effect on
contracts as an amendment of the law by means of a legislative
enactment. So far as this case is concerned, we have no hesitation in saying that the rights of the parties are to be determined according to the law as it was judicially construed to be
when the bonds in question were put on the market as commercial paper."
For these reasons, and without reference to any other questions discussed, we are of opinion that the rights of the plaintiff, as the owner of bonds issued under a statute which, when
passed, was valid by the laws of Michigan, as declared and
acted upon by the several departments of its government, are
not affected by decisions of the Supreme Court of the State
rendered after the railroad company, to whose rights the plaintiff succeeded, had earned the bonds under contract with the
city made in conformity with the statute. Upon the case as

Oct. 1881.]

NEW BUFFALO V. IRON Co.

presented the jury should have been instructed to find for the
plaintiff, rather than for the defendant.
Judgment reversed with directions to set aside the verdict, and
for such further proceedings as ntay be consistent with this
opinion.
MR. JUSTICE
in deciding it.

GRAY

NEw

did not sit in this case, nor take any part

BUFFALO V. IRON COMPANY.

1. Taylor v. Ypsilanti (supra, p. 60) cited and approved.
2. An assignee of municipal bonds issued to a railroad company succeeds to its
rights by virtue of its contract with the municipality, although at the time
of the assignment the statute under which they were issued was declared
by the Supreme Court of the State to be repugnant to the Constitution.
3. Bonds voted in aid of one company, which, under the law then in force, was
subsequently consolidated with another company, may be delivored to the
consolidated company.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan.
The judgment below was for the amount due on certain
bonds, with interest coupons attached, issued by the township of
New Buffalo, in the county of Berrien, and State of Michigan,
plaintiff in error, under the authority of a general statute of that
State, approved March 22, 1869, conferring power upon town-

ships, cities, and villages to pledge their aid, by loan or donation,
with or without conditions, to any railroad company organized
under the laws of that State, in the construction of its road.
Sess. Laws Mich., 1869, p. 89. It is the same statute whose
validity and construction were involved in Taylor v. Ypsilanti,
supra, p. 60. The bonds were voted on the twenty-second day
of May, 1869, as a donation in favor of the Chicago and Michigan Lake Shore Railroad Company, a corporation of Michigan,
whose road-line commenced at the north line of the State of
Indiana, in Allen County, running northwardly to the St.
Joseph River, in the village of St. Joseph, Michigan, a distance

