Oct. 1881.]

NEW BUFFALO V. IRON Co.

presented the jury should have been instructed to find for the
plaintiff, rather than for the defendant.
Judgment reversed with directions to set aside the verdict, and
for such further proceedings as ntay be consistent with this
opinion.
MR. JUSTICE
in deciding it.

GRAY

NEw

did not sit in this case, nor take any part

BUFFALO V. IRON COMPANY.

1. Taylor v. Ypsilanti (supra, p. 60) cited and approved.
2. An assignee of municipal bonds issued to a railroad company succeeds to its
rights by virtue of its contract with the municipality, although at the time
of the assignment the statute under which they were issued was declared
by the Supreme Court of the State to be repugnant to the Constitution.
3. Bonds voted in aid of one company, which, under the law then in force, was
subsequently consolidated with another company, may be delivored to the
consolidated company.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan.
The judgment below was for the amount due on certain
bonds, with interest coupons attached, issued by the township of
New Buffalo, in the county of Berrien, and State of Michigan,
plaintiff in error, under the authority of a general statute of that
State, approved March 22, 1869, conferring power upon town-

ships, cities, and villages to pledge their aid, by loan or donation,
with or without conditions, to any railroad company organized
under the laws of that State, in the construction of its road.
Sess. Laws Mich., 1869, p. 89. It is the same statute whose
validity and construction were involved in Taylor v. Ypsilanti,
supra, p. 60. The bonds were voted on the twenty-second day
of May, 1869, as a donation in favor of the Chicago and Michigan Lake Shore Railroad Company, a corporation of Michigan,
whose road-line commenced at the north line of the State of
Indiana, in Allen County, running northwardly to the St.
Joseph River, in the village of St. Joseph, Michigan, a distance

74

NEw BUFFALO V. IRON CO.

[Sup. Ct.

of thirty miles, passing through the township of New Buffalo.
When the bonds were voted there was in force a general statute, under which any railroad company of the State, forming a
continuous or connected line with any othey railroad company,
in or out of the State, could consolidate with the latter. The
statute provided that such new corporation "shall possess all
the powers, rights, and franchises conferred upon such two or
more corporations, and shall be subject to all the restrictions
and perform all the duties imposed by the provisions of their
respective charters or laws of organization." Further: " All
and singular the rights and franchises of each of said corporations, . . . and all and singular their rights and interests in
and to every species of property and things in action, shall be
deemed to be transferred to and vested in such new corporation
without any other deed or transfer." Compiled Laws of Mich.,
1857, sects. 1994, 1995, p. 653.
On the 3d of July, 1869, the Lake Shore Railroad Company
of Western Michigan was organized, with authority to conistruct a road from the northern terminus of the before-maentioned road, at St. Joseph River, northerly to the mouth of the
Muskegon River, a distance of ninety miles. By articles of
agreement between the two companies, made on the 12th and
13th of July, 18(9, and filed in the office of the secretary of
state on the nineteenth day of July, 1869, the two companies
became consolidated into a new corporation, under the name of
the Chicago and Michigan Lake Shore Railroad Company.
On the day last named the bonds, having been executed on
the 1st of June, 1869, were deposited in the office of the treasurer of state, who was required by the statute to " hold the
same as trustee of the municipality issuing the same, and for
the railroad company for which they were issued." The road
was finished from New Buffalo to the village of St. Joseph as
early as Feb. 1, 1870, and has been in operation ever since.
On the fourth day of February, 1870, the governor of the
State made his certificate, stating that the railroad company
had constructed the road in compliance as well with the statute as with the conditions upon which aid had been voted by
the people, and was, consequently, entitled to receive the bonds
from the State treasurer. They were thereupon delivered to

Oct. 1881.]

NEW BUFFALO V. IHON CO.

the consolidated company, who held them until Nov. 4, 1874,
when such of them as are here in suit were transferred to the
Cambria ron Company, defendant in error, in payment of antecedent debts due to it by the railroad company. Upon such
transfer the company's acceptances theretofore given for its
debts were surrendered and the debts discharged.
Mr. Henry F. Severens for the plaintiff in error.
M1lr. Mitchell J. Smiley, contra.
Mn. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
1. On behalf of the plaintiff in error it is contended that, by
the settled law of Michigan as it existed when the bonds were
issued, they were void. In support of that position we are referred to People v. Salem, 20 Mich. 452, decided May 26,
1870; Bay City v. State Treasurer, 23 id. 499; and Thomas v.
Port Huron, 27 id. 320. This question was fully considered
in Taylor v. Ypsilanti (supra, p. 60), where We ruled that by
the law of Michigan, as expounded by its Supreme Court, and
acted upon by its legislature and executive departments, prior
to the decision in People v. Salem, bonds issued in conformity
with the act of March 22, 1869, were valid obligations of the
municipality by whom they were issued. For the reasons there
stated the present objection cannot be sustained.
2. Equally untenable is the proposition that the rights and
obligations of the parties are to be determined by the law, as
expounded by the Supreme Court of the State, at the time the
defendant in error, in fact, received the bonds. The defendant
in error is a holder for value. Railroad Company v. National
Bank, 102 U. S. 14. But if not, it is still entitled to whatever
rights the raihoad company had by virtue of its contract with
the township. That contract was made and fully performed
before the decision in People v. Salemn was rendered, and, as
already indicated, was not affected by the decision in that
case.
3. Nor is it a material circumstance that this was a donation, and not a subscription of stock. In Railroad Coopanj v.
County of Otoe (16 Wall. 667), it was held that, in the absence
of constitutional provisions making a distinction between lu-

NEW BUFFALO V. IRON CO.

[Sup. Ct.

nicipal subscriptions to stock and municipal appropriations of
money or credit, there was no solid ground upon which, so far
as legislative power was concerned, to rest such a distinction.
" Both are for the purpose of aiding in the construction of the
road; both are aimed at the same object, securing a public
advantage, obtaining a highway or an avenue to the markets
of the country ; both may be' equally burdensome to the taxpayers."
Oleott v. The Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678; Town of
Queensbury v. Culver, 19 id. 83.
4. The only remaining objection to the judgment is that the
bonds were delivered to the consolidated company, when they
were not voted to that company. We concur with the court
below in holding that the aid voted must be deemed to have
been given in view of the then existing statute, authorizing
two or more railroad companies forming a continuous or connected line to consolidate and form one corporation, and investing the consolidated company with the powers, rights,
property, and franchises of the constituent companies. Nugent
v. The Supervisors, 19 Wall. 241; County of Scotland v. Thomas,
94 U. S. 682; Town of East Lincoln v. Davenport, id. 801;
Wilson v.,Salamanca, 99 id. 499; Empire v. Darlington, 101
id. 87; Menasha v. Hazard, 102 id. 81 ; Ilarter v. Kernoehan,
102 id. 562; County of Tipton v. Locomotive Worles, id. 523.
The bonds were, therefore, rightly delivered to the new or consQlidated corporation.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUsTICE GRAY did not sit in this case, nor take any part
in deciding it.

