EVANSVILLE

BANK

V. B1ITTON.

[Sup. Ct.

master to allow each shareholder to establish the amount of
deduction to which he was entitled at the time of the assessment, and to enjoin the collection of a corresponding part of
the tax. But as the assessment is not void, but only voidable,
it must stand good for all of the assessment in each case which
is not shown to be in excess of the just debts of the shareholder
that should be deducted.
Decree reversed, and cause remandedfor further proceedings
in accordance with this opinion.

EVANSVILLE
BRITTON v.

BANK v. BRITTON.
EVANSVILLE

BANK.

1. The taxation of national bank shares by the statute of Indiana, without permitting the owner of them to deduct from their assessed value the amount
of his bona fide indebtedness, as he may in the case of other investments
of moneyed capital, is a discrimination forbidden by the act of Congress.
2. Supervisors v. Stanley (siqra,1). 305) and Hills v. Exchange Baunc (supra, p. 319)
cited, and the rulings there made approved.
3. The points of difference between the New York statute there considered, and
the Indiana statute applicable to this case pointed out.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States, for
the District of Indiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

The case was argued by Mk. Asa Iglehart and Mr. Thomas A.
Hendricks for the bank, and by Mr. Jacob S. Buchanan and
Mr. Benjamin Harrison for Britton.
MR. JUSTICE MILLEJR delivered the opinion of the court.
These are cross-appeals from a decree rendered in a suit in
chancery, in which the Evansville National Bank was complainant, and Britton, as treasurer of Vanderburgh County,
Indiana, was defendant.
The case is in all essential points analogous to that of Hills
v. Exchange Bank, supra, p. 319, just decided.
The principal question of law is the same as that discussed

O01. 1881.]

EVANSVILLE BANK v. BRITTON.

and decided in Supervisors v. Stanley, spra,p. 305. In fact, the
three cases were advanced out of their order, and heard consecutively, because they involved important questions concerning taxation by State statutes of the shares of national banks;
and the argument, able and exhaustive throughout, has been
almost wholly directed, on the part of the banks, to establish
the proposition tint, where the law of the State either makes
or permits a discrimination operating only against a particular class of holders of national bank shares, in the manner of
assessing those shares as regards other moneyed capital in the
State, all the laws for such assessments are void, and all such
assessments are absolutely void, and no tax on national bank
shares can be collected in the State.
The brief of counsel in this case in various forms repeats the
idea that the bill was brought, not so much to assert the rights
of stockholders who may have been injured by the enforcement
of the statute, as to obtain a judicial declaration of this court
that the act is void, and the attempt to tax the shares of the
bank equally so.
Having, in Supervisors v. Stanley, rejected this proposition,
and given our reasons for it, we shall not repeat them here.
The objection made to the Indiana statute is the same as
that made against the New York statute; namely, that it permits
the taxpayer to deduct from the sum of his credits, money at
interest, or other demands, the amount of his bona fide indebtedness, leaving the remainder as the sum to be taxed, while
it denies the same right of deduction from the cash value of
bank shares.
A distinction is attempted to be drawn between the Indiana
statute and the New York statute, because the former permitted
the deduction of the taxpayer's indebtedness to be made from
the valuation of his personal property, while in Indiana he can
only deduct it from his credits. And undoubtedly there is
such a difference in the laws of the two States. But if one
of them is more directly in conflict with the act of Congress than the other, it is the Indiana statute. In its schedule
the subject of taxation from which the taxpayer may deduct
his bona fide indebtedness is placed under two heads, as follows: -

EVANSVILLE

BANK V. BRITTON.

[Sup. CL.

" 1. Credits or money at interest, either within or without
the State, at par value.
" 2. All other demands against persons or bodies corporate,
either within or without this State.
" Total amount of all credits."
The act of Congress does not make the tax on personal property the measure of the tax on bank shares in the State, but
the tax on moneyed capital in the hands of the individual
citizens. Credits, money loaned at interest, and demands
against persons or corporations are more purely representative
of moneyed capital than personal property, so far as they can
be said to differ. Undoubtedly there may be much personal
property exempt from taxation without giving bank shares a
right to similar exemption, because personal property is not
necessarily moneyed capital. But the rights, credits, demands,
and money at interest mentioned in the Indiana statute, from
which bona fide debts may be deducted, all mean moneyed
capital invested in that way.
It is unnecessary to repeat the argument in People v. Weaver
(100 U. S. 539) on this point. We are of opinion that the
taxation of bank shares by the Indiana statute, without permitting the shareholder to deduct from their assessed value
the amount of his bona fide indebtedness, as in the case of other
investments of moneyed capital, is a discrimination forbidden
by the act of Congress.
There is in the bill of complaint in this case the usual allegation, apart from the special matters we have just considered,
that the assessing officers habitually and intentionally assess
the shares of the national banks higher iu proportion to their
actual value than other property generally, and especially
shares in other corporations. It is denied in the answer, and
unsupported by proof.
It is also alleged that the bank is taxed a considerable sum
for its real estate, and that in assessing the value of the shares
no deduction is made on that account. The positive testimony
of the assessor shows that such deduction was made.
It is alleged that the capital of the bank is almost entirely
invested in the bonds and treasury notes of the United States,
and the shares only represent this untaxable investmeit. Van

Oct. 1881.]

EVANSVILLE BANK V. BRIITTON.

Allen v. The Assessors (3 Wall. 573) settles the principle that
under certain limitations the shares of the national banks are
taxable with exclusive reference to their value and without regard to the nature of the property held by the bank as a corporation. The very point here made was expressly overruled
in that case.
Acting upon these principles the Circuit Court decreed a perpetual injunction as to those shareholders who had proved in
the case that at the time of the assessment they owed debts
which should rightfully have been deducted. These were four
in number, and the appeal of the collector, Britton, is from
this injunction. The decree in that respect was right, and
must be
Affirmed.
The bank appeals from that part of the decree which dismissed the bill as to all the other shares. This was because
no evidence was given that any other shareholders except the
four above referred to owed any debts which could have been
deducted from the value of the shares. In the case of Hills v.
Exchange Banc we authorized the court on return of the case
to permit the bank to show what shareholders had such indebtedness in some appropriate form. It is not necessary to
consider whether this case ought to be reversed at the instance
of the bank to enable that to be done now, for it is sta'ted by
the counsel of the bank in their printed brief that the offer was
made to them to have a reference to a master to take testimony
on this point before final decree, and they declined to accept
the privilege. That branch of the decree is, on the appeal of
the bank,
Afflired.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY,

and

MR. JUSTICE GRAY dissented.

concurred MR.
I cannot agree to so much of the judgment

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, with whom

JUSTICE GRAY.

in this case as affirms that part of the decree below appealed from by Britton, the treasurer.

"1Credits"

are but

EVANSVILLE

BANK

V. B1I3"TTON.

[Sup. Ct.

one of a number of kinds of moneyed capital. They represent, in the classification of taxable property, the ordinary
debts due to a person; and it has been common for so long
a time in the States to measure their taxable value by their
excess over like debts owing to the same person in the same
right, that I cannot believe it was the intention of Congress
in its limitation on the power of taxing national bank shares
to require a deduction of debts from the value of shares,
when such a deduction was only allowed to other persons
from this one kind of moneyed capital. The law of Indiana
expressly prohibits deductions from the value of any other
property than credits. Ample provision is made for the taxation of all other moneyed capital at its value without deduction, the same as national bank shares. In HJepburn v. The
School Directors (23 Wall. 480) this court said "it could not
have been the intention of Congress to exempt bank shares.
from taxation because some moneyed capital was exempt." In
that case, a tax on bank shares was sustained when, by law,
mortgages, judgments, recognizances, and moneys owing on
articles of agreement for the sale of lands were not taxable. I
am unable to distinguish this case in principle from that. The
exemption here is partial only, as it was there.
MRt. JUSTICE BRADLEY. I dissent from the judgment of
the court in these and the two preceding cases, for the reason
that, in my opinion, the State laws authorizing the capital stock
of national banks to be taxed, without allowing any deduction
for the debts of the stockholders, where such deduction is allowed in relation to other moneyed capital, are void in toto so
far as relates to national banks. To hold the laws valid except
as to those who are actually indebted, and actually claim the
benefit of the deduction, and actually set it up in a suit brought
by the bank for relief, is practically to render the condition of
the act of Congress nugatory, and to deprive of its protection
the national banks and their stockholders. The tax though laid
on the stockholders is required to be paid by the bank itself,
which must pay without deduction unless the shareholders give
the bank notice of the amount of their debts. This is a most
ingenious expedient to avoid such deductions altogether. The

Oct. 1881.]

EVANSVILE BANK

v.

BRIrTON.

probability that not one in ten of the shareholders will ever
have notice of the assessment in time to make the claim, and
the natural reluctance they would have (if they had notice) to
lay the amount of their debts before a board of bank officers,
will effectually secure the State from claims for deduction.
And that was, no doubt, the object of the law. But this unequal operation of it, in its-practical effect, might not be sufficient to render it void. It is void, in my judgment, because
it makes no exception, but is general in its terms, subjecting to
taxation the capital stock of national banks without the privilege of deducting debts. Denying to it operation and effect
as to those who desire to claim the benefit of the deduction,
and giving it effect as to all others, is to tear a portion of the
law out by the roots, it is not like the ease where a portion qJ'
a law, which may be separated from the rest, can he declared
invalid without affecting the remzainder of the law ; nor like the
case of a general law which the legislature has power to make,
but from the operation of which some individuals may have a
legal or constitutional exemption, ?Vhieh they can plead in their
defence; but it is wrong in form, wrong in toto. The legislature had no authority or power to make the capital of national
banks taxable except in the same manner as other moneyed
capital of the State. The practical iniquity of the law is seen
in this, that it affects the value of all the stock, whoever holds
it.
As the law stands, it acts as a prohibition against the purchase of the stock by those who owe debts, and they constitute
a considerable portion of every community. It does not help
the validity of the law for us to declare that it is pro tanto
void, and, in fact, make a new law for the State. Its validity
must be decided by its actual form and terms. If these cannot
stand, the law is void.

