Oct. 1881.]

HAUSELT V. HAIRItISON.

401

trust, which he can enforce by means of the legal title to the
trust estate vested in him ; and that his creditor, in the eases supposed of his insolvency or absence from the jurisdiction, may
resort to the equity of the trustee, upon a principle of equitable
substitution or attachment, for his own security. It would not
apply against the trust estate in this ease for the enforcement
of a debt created by Vick, for the reason that he had no title
to the property ; but adopting it and applying it as though he
had, it is equally plain that the appellants have established no
right to the relief prayed for. What, at the time of his death,
may have been the state of the account betveen the trust
estate and Henry W. Vick does not appear. There is no alle.gation on the subject in the record. For aught that appears,
he may have had in his bands means enough belonging to the
estate to satisfy all demands against it ; he may, indeed, have
been largely in debt to it. The case, in any of its aspects,
clearly is not within the rule; and the effort to reach the estate through Pearce, instead of Vick, for the reasons already
stated, must fail.
These are the grounds upon which the Circuit Court proceeded in the decree complained of. We find no error in the
record, and the decree is accordingly
Affirmed.

1-AUSELT V. HARRISON.

A. entered into a written contract with B., whereby, in consideration of moneys
advanced by the latter for the pnrchase of skins, he agreed that he would
tan, finish, and deliver them to B. B., in consideration of a commission 01i
sales, and a further percentage to cover insurance, storage, and labor, agreed
to sell them, and put the proceeds, less his commiissions and advances, at tie
disposal of A. It was further agreed that all the skins, whether green, in
the process of tanning, tanned, or tanned and finished, should be considered
as security for refunding the moneys advanced. The business was, for about
six months, carried on until A. became unable, from sickness and financial
embarrassment, to proceed with it, and he was then indebted to B., who was
aware of his condition. They, in order to carry out the first contract, entered
into another, whereby B. was to take possession of A.'s tannery, and run and
use it with such materials there as would be necessary to finish and complete
the skins, and sell them, the net proceeds to be put to the credit of A. after
26
VOL. xv.

HAUSELT

V. [AIRISON.

[Slip. Cf.

deducting advances and expenses. A., four days thereafter, filed his petition
13. took possession of the tannery, and A.'s assignee in bankin bankruptcy.
ruptcy brought replerin for the skins. li/ld, 1. That A. had not an unqualified property in them, but they wvere subject to a charge in the nature of a
mortgage in favor of B., which was binding on the parties and A.'s assigu e
2. That the second contract was not fraudulent, within the
in bankruptcy.
meaning of the bankrupt law.

EfImoit to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Lewis Sanders for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. I. F. Elliott and Mr. -i. C. Parsons for the defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of replevin, brought Feb. 20, 1875, by
Jefferson Harrison, assignee in bankruptcy of Edward Bayer,
against Charles Ilauselt and Charles Korn, to recover possession of certain tanned skins, part finished and part unfinished, and bark, which, it is alleged, had been transferred by
Bayer to them, in fraud of the bankrupt law. There was a
judgment in his favor, to reverse which this writ of error is
prosecuted.
Bayer, who, upon his own petition, filed Nov. 10, 1874, was
adjudicated a bankrupt Jan. 18, 1875, owned and was possessed of a tannery at Tioga, Pa., at which lie had been
conducting the business of a tanner ; and Ilauselt was a
leather-merchant in New York.
On the day of its date, they entered into an agreement in
writing, as follows: Articles of agreement entered into this twenty-ninth day of
iMay, 1874, between Edward Bayer, of Brooklyn, New York, party
of the first part, and Charles Iltauselt, of New York City, party of
the second part, witnesseth :"In consideration of certain moneys advanced, at the rate of
seven per cent per annum, to the party of the first part, fbr the pnr
chase of veal and kip skins to be tanned, curried, and finished by
one Charles Korn, the party of the first part hereby agrees to send
all the skins so tanned. curried, and finished by the said Charles
Kon, said skins to be labelled and stamped with a label and stamp

Oct. 1881.]

IAUSELT V. HARRISON.

bearing the name of said Charles Korn, the skins to be in every
way so finished as those now known in the New York market as
the ' Korn skin,' exclusive to the party of the second part, he being
sole agent for the so-called I Korn skin' in the United States, in
consideration of a commission of five per cent of proceeds of all
sales and a further one per cent to cover fire insurance, storage,
and labor ; the said party of the second part agrees to sell all such
skins to be sent him at the best market prices, the wholesale or case
price only to be taken as an average in account sales, small sales to
be taken to own account at same price; the party of the second
part further agrees to place all proceeds of sales of said skins, after
deduction of aforementioned commission and advances for the purchase of veal and kip skins, at the disposal of the party of the first
part, for his own use and benefit.
And it is further agreed that all the skins, whether green, in
process of tanning, tanned, or tanned and finished, shall be considered as security for the refnding, with interest, of all the moneys
advanced by the party of the second part, and that all the skins
shall be insured for their full value in good companies only.
" Signed, sealed, and delivered on the day and year above
written.
" EDW'D) BAYER.
"

"Witness:

CHARLES 11AUSELT,

By E.

HAUSELT,

Att'y.

"FREDERICK E. SnHAREIz."

The business contemplated by this contract was carried on,
according to its terms, until Nov. 6, 1874. During that time
Hauselt had made large cash advances and had received some
tanned hides, but on that date was largely in advance, in excess of receipts, and in excess of the value of the property
replevied. Bayer, having become broken in health and financially embarrassed, informed Hauselt of his condition, and
that, in consequence, he could proceed no further in the execution of the contract between them, and could not otherwise
repay his advances.
Thereupon the parties entered into the
following agreement: "This agreement, made the sixth day of November, 1874, between Edward Bayer, of the city of Brooklyn, State of New York,
party of the first part, and Charles Hauselt, of the city, county, and
State of New York, party of the second part, witnesseth : -

I-JAUSELT V. HARRISON[

[Sup. Ct.

"That whereas an agreement was entered into by the parties
hereto on the twenty-ninth day of May, 1874, whereby the party of
the first part was, among other things, to tan, finish, and deliver to
the party of the second part veal and kip skins purchased in the
raw by moneys advanced by the party of the second part; anl
whereas the party of' the first part has become ill and physically
unable to complete the tanning and finishing the skins now on
hand at the tannery of the party of the first part, and in order that
said contract or agreement may be carried out, it is hereby agreed,
and the party of the second part is hereby authorized to take immediate possession and sole control of tannery, buildings, and outhouses connected therewith, of the party of the first part, in Tioga
Township, Pennsylvania, and run and use the same, together with
such of the materials on hand as may be necessary to finish awd
complete said skins now on hand in said tannery, &c., and to take
possession of and sell said skins in any state as may be to the best
advantage of the parties hereto, all sales guaranteed by the parties
of the second part, the net proceeds of all said sales to be passed to
the credit of the party of the first part, after deducting advances
and expenses of finishing said skins as per the terms of said agreement.
"In witness whereof the parties hereto have hereunto set their
hands and seals the day and year first above written.
"EDW.

BAYER.

"CIIARLES

" T. If.

[sEAL.]

ItASErLT.

BRORMAI,

[SEAL.]

Att'y.

Signed, sealed, and delivered in the presence of
11C. H.

SEYMOUR."

In pursuance of this arrangement, Hauselt immediately took
possession of the tannery and held the property replevied at
the time this action was brought.
It may be assumed that at the date of the second contract
Hauselt had knowledge of Bayer's insolvency and of his intention immediately to file his petition in bankruptcy.
The court below charged the jury, in substance, as follows
That the property in the skins purchased by means of the advances under the contract of May 29, 1874, was in Bayer;
that Hauselt had no right to the possession of them at any
time while they were in the process of manufacture; that the
only security given by the contract was the personal obliga-

Oct. 1881.]

O AUSELT V. HARRISON.

tion of Bayer to consign them to Hauselt for sale, when the
manufacture was complete ; that the contract of Nov. 6, 1874,
and the possession delivered and taken in pursuance of it, was
a transfer, to which Hauselt was not entitled, and constituted
a preference within tile meaning of the bankrupt law ; that if
it was made to make and obtain payment of the whole of the
debt to Hauselt, Bayer being in fact insolvent, and Ilauselt
having reasonable cause to believe him to be so, the transaction
was fraudulent and void, and the verdict should be for the
plaintiff.
These charges were duly excepted to and are now assigned
for error.
Notwithstanding the differences between the contract of
May 29, 1874, and that considered in Powder Company v.
Burkhardt (97 U. S. 110), it must be conceded that the legal
title to the skins purchased with the money advanced by Hauselt vested in Bayer. But it was not an unqualified property.
We cannot agree with the Circuit Court in the construction,
that the only security given to Hauselt by the contract was
the personal promise of Bayer that he would perform it. To
limit the contract to that extent is to deprive its last provision
of all force ; for, without it, the personal obligation to deliver
the skins when tanned would still remain. The clause providing for security must be held to mean. something; and it
declares that the skins themselves, before delivery of possession to Hauselt under the contract, for purposes of sale, shall
be considered as security.
It was decided in Gregory v. Morris (96 U. S. 619) that the
legal effect of such a contract is to create a charge upon the
property, not in the nature of a pledge, but of a mortgage.
Such a lien is good between the parties, without a change of
possession, even though void as against subsequent purchasers
in good faith without notice, and creditors levying executions
or attachments; and if followed by a delivery of possession,
before the rights of third persons have intervened, it is good
absolutely.
Nor can it be reasonably doubted that this equitable lien
was capable of enforcement. If Bayer had, in disregard and
violation of his agreement, undertaken to divert the skins,

HAUSELT V. HARRISON.

[Sup. Ct.

whether in a finished or unfinished state, to some other and
unauthorized use, it would have been in fraud of the rights of
Hauselt, and a court of equity would not have hesitated by an
injunction to prevent the commission or continuance of the
wrong. Bayer would, under such circumstances, be treated by
a court of equity as a trustee, fraudulently dealing with and
misappropriating trust property, and Ilauselt would be protected in his rights, as owner of a beneficial interest in the
property, entitled to the enjoyment of the specific fruits of the
agreement.
" Indeed," says Story (Eq. Jur., sect. 1231), " there is generally no difficulty in equity in establishing a lien not only on
real estate, but on personal property or on money in the hands
of a third person, wherever that is a matter of agreement, at
least against the party himself, and third persons who are volunteers or have notice. For it is a general principle in equity
that, as against the party himself, and any claiming under him
voluntarily or with notice, such an agreement raises a trust."
If, in consequence of his bankruptcy, the property had come
into the possession of his assignees, they would have taken it
subject to all legal and equitable claims of others not in fraud
of the rights of general creditors. They would be affected by
all the equities which could be urged against him. Coo/l v.
Tullis, 18 Wall. 332. In Yeatiman v. Savings Institution (95
U. S. 764) it was held to be an established rule that, "except
in cases of attachments against the property of the bankrupt
within a prescribed time preceding the commencement of proceedings in bankruptcy, and except in cases where the disposition of property by the bankrupt is declared by law to be
fraudulent and void, the assignee takes the title, subject to all
equities, liens, or incumbrances, whether created by operation
of law or by act of the bankrupt, which existed against the
property in the hands of the bankrupt. . . . He takes the
property in the same ' plight and condition ' that the bankrupt
held it. Winsor v. McLellan, 2 Story, 492." In Stewart v.
Platt (101 U. S. 731), it was held that, although the chattel
mortgages, involved in that litigation, by reason of the failure
to file them in the proper place, were void as against judgment
creditors, they were valid and effective as between the parties.

eel-. 1881.]

HAUSELT

V. HARRISON.

Mr. Justice Harlan, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
The assignee took the property subject to such equities, liens,
or incumbrances as would have affected it had no adjudication
in bankruptcy been made..... The latter [the assignee] representing general creditors, cannot dispute such claim, since,
had there been no adjudication, it could not have been disputed
by the mortgagors. The assignee can assert in behalf of the
general creditors no claims to the proceeds of the sale of
that property which the bankrupts themselves could not have
asserted in a contest exclusively between them and their
mortgagee."
It follows that, Bayer becoming a bankrupt while hi possession of the skins purchased, and in the tannery, under the
contract of May 29, 1874, if his assignee in bankruptcy had
taken possession of them, he would have done so, subject to the
terms of that contract; and Ilauselt would have had the right
to require, either that he should perform the contract to its
termination, so far as the skins then on hand were concerned,
by finishing them, and forwarding them for sale; or that lie
should surrender possession to Hauselt, under some arrangement, mutually "beneficial, whereby the enterprise might be
wound up, under his manageinent, such as that actually made
by Bayer, on Nov. 6, 1874; or if the assignee sold the property
in the condition in which he received it, that lie should account
to Hauselt specifically for the proceeds of the sale, and recognize him as a creditor for the remainder of his advances, not
thereby refunded.
Such being the mutual rights of the parties, the transaction
of Nov. 6, 1874, though made with knowledge of Bayer's insolvency, and in contemplation of his bankruptcy, if made in
good faith, as it is admitted to have been, for the purpose of
securing to Hauselt the benefits of the contract of May 29,
1874, was legitimate, and did not constitute, as was held by
the Circuit Court, an unlawful preference in fraud of the bank.
rupt law. It is quite true thait Hauselt could not have compelled Bayer, by an action at law, to deliver to him possession
of his tannery and its contents ; nor could he have recovered
possession of the skins, tanned or untanned, by force of a legal
title; but it is equally true that, in equity, he could, by injuue-

408

HANNIBAL

v. FAUNTLEIMOY.

[Sup. Ct.

tion, have prevented Bayer from making any disposition of the
property, inconsistent with his obligations under the contract;
and upon proof of his inability or unwillingness to complete
the performance of his agreement the court would not haw,
hesitated, in the exercise of a familiar jurisdiction, to protect
the interests of Hauselt, by placing the property in the custody
of a receiver for preservation, with authority, 'f such a course
seemed expedient, in its discretion, to finish the unfinished
work, and ultimately, by a sale and distribution of its proceeds,
to adjust the rights of the parties.
For these reasons, we think the court below erred in its
charges.to the jury. The judgment will, therefore, be reversed,
with instructions to grant a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

HANNIBAL V.

FAUNTLEROY.

In a suit upon city bonds, which recite that they are issued to pay its subscription, the validity of which depended on its ratification "by a majority of the
taxpayers," the plaintiff offered in evidence, 1, the poil-books of an election
held for that purpose and to elect city officers, for whom no person other than
a taxpayer could lawfully vote, and which contain the name of every voter,
with the record of his vote on the question, and show a majority of votes cast
in favor of the ratification; 2, the proceedings of a meeting of the city
council, whereat that fact was shown to their satisfaction by the certificate of
the officers of the election, and the bonds ordered to be issued. field, that
the offered evidence is competent, and that the plaintiff was not bound to
sustain the record by proof that each person voting was thereunto lawfully
entitled.

Ennor to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Air. Chester 1f. Krum, with whom was XAr. J. A. Irurn, for
the plaintiff in error.
Ar. James Grant for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought by Fauntleroy, the defendant
in error, a citizen of Virginia, against the city of Hannibal, a

