Oct. 1881.]

UNITED

UNITED

STATES V. RAILROAD

STATES V.

RAILROAD

CO.

COMPANY.

1. The court affirms Hecht v. Boughton, supra, p. 285.
2. A writ of error or an appeal will not lie from the final judgment or decree of
the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wyoming, unless the amount in controversy exceeds $1,000, or the decision be rendered upon a writ of habeas
corpus involving the question of personal freedom.
3. The same provision applies to a suit where the United States is the plaintiff,
unless it be brought for the enforcement of a revenue law.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wyoming.

This was a suit in replevin, brought by the United States
in one of the District Courts of the Territory of Wyoming,
against the Union Pacific Railroad Company to recover the
possession of certain goods intended for the Indian service. It
was submitted on an agreed statement of facts, from which it
appears that the goods belonged to the United States; that
they were intended for the Indian service ; that the United
States had a contract with Dwight J. McCann for their transportation from New York to the White River Agency in Colorado; that they were put into his hands for transportation
under his contract ; that he agreed with the railroad company
for their tranportation from Omaha to Rawlins; that the
company carried them as a common carrier under this agreement to the place of destination, for which its proper charges
were $496.86; that on their arrival at Rawlins they were
stored in the company's warehouses for a long time; that for
this storage the proper charge was $91.30; and that he had
never paid any part of these charges.
On the 20th of November, 1877, the United States demanded the goods of the company, but a delivery was refused
unless the charges were paid, the company claiming the right
to hold the goods under a carrier's lien. The United States
thereupon replevied them without having first paid the charges.
The only controversy was as to the lien, and it was agreed
that if, upon the facts, the court should be of opinion the company bad a lien, judgment should be entered in its favor and
against the United States for the amount of the charges. If,
however, it should be decided there was no lien, judgment was
to be entered against the company. The court decided there

UNITED

STATES V. RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

was a lien, and gave judgment against the United States for
$588.16, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
Territory. To review that judgment this writ of error was
brought.
The Solicitor-General for the United States.
Mr. Samuel Shellabarger and Mr. Jeremiah H. Wilson,
contra.
MR. ChIEF JUSTICE WAITE, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
Under the decision in lecht v. Boughton (supra, p. 235), the
case should have been brought here by appeal, and not by writ
of error. There was no trial by a jury. But there is still
another objection to our jurisdiction. Under sects. 702 and
1909 of the Revised Statutes, writs of error and appeals from
the final judgments and decrees of the Supreme Court of
Wyoming lie to this court only when the amount in controversy exceeds $1,000, or the judgment is on a writ of habeas
corpus, involving a question of personal freedom. No exception is made in favor of the United States, and this is not an
action brought for the enforcement of any revenue law. Consequently the United States are not entitled to a writ of error or
appeal if the same remedy would not be afforded under similar
circumstances to a private party. United States v. Thompson,
93 U. S. 586.
The value of the matter in dispute is the
amount of the judgment that has been recovered. This is
less than $1,000. It follows that we have no jurisdiction, and
the writ is
Dismissed,

