UNITED STATES V. SMITH.

UNITED STATES V.

[Sup. Ct.

SMITH.

1. A paymaster in the army, from whom public funds had been stolen, the
amount of which he subsequently paid to his chief paymaster, pursuant
to the order of the Paymaster-General, filed his petition in the Court of
Claims for relief, under sects. 1059 and 1002 of the Revised Statutes.
Held, that the limitation of six years prescribed by sect. 1069 is applicable
to the case.
2. United Slates v. Clark (906 U. S. 37) distinguished.

the Court of Claims.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
API'PEAL from

The Solicitor-General for the United States.
Mr. George A. King for the appellee.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action in the Court of Claims under the third
clause of sect. 1059 and sect. 1062 of the Revised Statutes, to
establish a right to relief for public money stolen from the
claimant, who was a paymaster in the army. The case turned
in the court below, as it does here, on the question of the applicability of the Statute of Limitations as found in sect. 1069;
and the claimant relies upon the opinion in United States v.
Clark, 96 U. S. 87.
That case differs materially from this. The United States
were suing Clark, in a court of general jurisdiction, on his bond,
to recover the sum whereof he alleged that he had been robbed.
He had refused to pay, and had never paid it or accounted for
it, and he sued in the Court of Claims to establish that set-off.
In the present case, the sum in controversy had been paid by
the claimant to the proper officer, and the United States had
no claim on him for it, and no right of action against him on
that account. If the United States, in any action brought
against Smith on his official bond, should include the sum now
in controversy, it would be a perfect answer to the demand
that Clark had paid it to his chief paymaster under the order
of Paymaster-General Brice, their common superior.
And if Smith should, in his accounts with the government,
fall behind, so that a balance as large as the sum now in conMR. JUSTICE MILLER

Oct. 1881.]

UNITED

STATES V. SMITH.

troversy was due, and there bad been a change of sureties on
the bond, those who were sureties when this payment was made
could insist on that sum being applied to their exoneration pro
tanto.
Nor does it appear that there was any balance of money of
the government in the hands of Smith either when he brought
suit or when he obtained judgment, on which it could be applied as a credit.
It is, therefore, a case in which the judgment amounts to a
recovery of the sum once paid by claimant, and as the statute
gives no authority to make this effectual by repayment out of
the treasury, it is to be collected by permitting him to retain
it out of a future balance in his hands.
In Clark's case the money had never been paid by him to
the treasury, nor did it appear that there had been any final
refusal by the accounting officers of the treasury to allow the
claim.
The reasons why this court held that the Statute of Limitations, which applies to actions in general in the Court of Claims,
of six years, did not apply to Clark's action, have direct relation
to the differences we have noticed between that ease and this.
The court there said that until the accounting officers had refused to allow the claim in his accounts there was no occasion
to establish it in the Court of Claims. There being no denial
of his right, the statute did not run. This was founded on the
conditions of the officer's bond to pay when denlanded.
It sufficiently appears in this case that claimant's right was
authoritatively denied when he was ordered by the paymastergeneral to pay the money, and that then was the proper time
to apply for the protection of the Court of Claims by asking
its decree that he should be credited on his account with that
SUM.
The court in Clark's case gave as another reason why the
statute did not apply, that so long as the United States could
sue for this money and did not do so, the right of the claimant
to this defence to that action could not be barred by time Statute
of Limitations. And as Clark was then sued for that money
by the government in a court where the defence could not be
tried, but where it would not be barred by the limitation, if

622

GUARANTY

Co. v. BOARD OF

LIQUIDATION.

[Sup. Ct.

the court had had jurisdiction to hear the defence, it was not
barred in the only court which had jurisdiction to establish the
defence.
In the present case, the money having been paid by the
officer, he was liable to n action by the government to
recover it.

It cannot be permitted that, tb initiative in regard to a
judicial determination of his right remaining solely with him,
he can claim to be free from the law of limitation governing
actions in that court as long as he chooses. Nor can be, without regard to the Statute of Limitations, proceed to obtain a
judgment which is in effect for the repayment of money had
and received to his use by the government.
We think the action in this case is barred by the Statute of
Limitations.
Judgment reversed.

GUARANTY

COMPANY

v.

BOARD OF LrQUIDATION.

The State of Louisiana provided for funding her bonds at reduced rates and on
certain terms. A subsequent statute prohibits the funding of all questionable obligations, among which are specially designated those issued in aid of
the construction of a certain canal, until, by a final decree of the Supreme
Court, "they have been declared legal and valid obligations against the State
of Louisiana, and that the same were issued in strict conformity to law, and
not in violation of the Constitution of this State, or of the United States,
and for a valid consideration." A., a holder of the canal bonds, filed his
bill praying for such a decree. The court decided that the statute (lid not
allow them to be funded, they not being valid obligations in the hands of
the first taker, and that the latter occupied as good a position as a botna fide
holder. Held, that this not being an action to recover the contents of the
bonds, and A. having the same right to enforce payment as he ever possessed, the statute as thus construed does not impair the obligation of any
contract.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. William Wirt Howe and Mr. William Allen Butler for
the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Gustave A. Breaux and Mrh. James Lingan for the
defendant in error.

