630

[Sup. Ct,

THE "POTOMAC."

stances, the relation of the master and of his co-owner, through
him, to the libellant, wts such as to create a duty on them to
see that the libellant was not injured by the negligence of the
master. On the facts found there was a breach of that duty by
the negligence of the master, constituting a maritime tort, of
which the District Court had jurisdiction in this suit. Not
only does the jurisdiction of courts of admiralty in matters of
tort depend entirely on locality, but since the case of Waring v. Clarke (5 How. 441, 464), the exception of infra corpus
cornitatus is not allowed to prevail.

Nor is the term " tort,"

when used in reference to admiralty jurisdiction, confined to
wrongs or injuries committed by direct force, but it includes
wrongs suffered in consequence of the negligence or malfeasance

of others, where the remedy at common-law isby an action on
the case. Phila., Wil., ep Balt. Railroad Co. v. Phil. & Havre
de Grace Steam Towboat Co., 23 id. 209, 214, 215.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be affirmed, with costs

and interest on the principal sum of $5,707.50 decreed by the
Circuit Court, to be computed at the rate of five per cent per
annum from "the date of judicial demand in the District Court,

till paid; and it is
So ordered.

THE " POTOMAC."
1. Upon a libel in admiralty for a collision, the libellant may be allowed damages for the loss of the use of his vessel while laid up to repair the injuries
thereby suffered; and if at the time of the collision she was in no need of
repair, and was engaged in and peculiarly fitted for a particular business,
and ber charter value cannot be otherwise satisfactorily ascertained, the
average of the net profits of her trips for the season may be adopted as
the measure of the allowance.
2. A vessel being insured on two-thirds of her valuation by valued policies, by
which, in case the insurers should pay any loss, the assured agreed to assign
to tbem all right to recover satisfaction from any other person, or to prose.
cute tberefor at the charge and for account of the insurers, if requested,
and that they should be entitled to such proportion of the damages recovered as the amount insured bore to the valuation in the po'icies, the assured
filed a libel in admiralty against another vessel for damages suffered by a
collision. The insurers paid the libellant two-thirds of that damage, and

Oct. 1881.]

TiniE " POTOMAC."

released and assigned to the owners of the libelled vessel all their right in
any damages growing out of the collision. It appearing that the collision
was owing to the fault of both vessels, the libellant could recover only half
of the damages sued for. Held, that one-third of the sum paid by the
insurers must be deducted from the amount to be recovered.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Timothy D. Lincoln for the appellant.
iT. William Wirt Howe, contra.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a libel in admiralty for collision, filed by the owner
of the steamboat " Robert E. Lee " against the steamboat- 1 Potomac." In the District Court, and in the Circuit Court on appeal, both vessels were found to have been in fault, and therefore,
according to the settled rule in admiralty, affirmed and establisled by this court in The Catherine (17 ltow. 170), the
amount of the damages to each vessel, being $19,411.27 to the
" Robert E. Lee," and $7,330.52 to the "Potomac," was equally
divided between the two. The Circuit Court having found
and stated the facts, and stated its conclusions of law, its finding of the facts is conclusive, and the questions of ltw so stated
upon the record are open for revision in this court upon appeal,
without any bill of exceptions. Stat. Feb. 16, 1875, c. 77, 18
Stat. 315; The S. C. Tryon, ante, 267; Tle Prancis Wright,
ante, 381.
Both the questions of law presented by the record relate to
the amount of the damages that the libellant is entitled to
recover.
One question is as to the sum to be allowed for the detention
of his vessel while repairing the injuries suffered by the collision. The rules of law governing this question are well settled,
and the only difficulty is in applying them to the peculiar facts
of the case.
In order to make full compensation and indemnity for what
has been lost by the collision, restitutio in integrarn,the owners
of the injured vessel are entitled to recover for the loss of her
use, while laid tip for repairs. When there is a market price

632

THE " POTOMAC."

[Sup. Ct.

for such use, that price is the test of the sum to be recovered.
When there is no market price, evidence of the profits that she
would have earned if not disabled is competent; but from the
gross freight must be deducted so much as would in ordinary
cases be disbursed on account of her expenses in earning it; in
no event can more than the net profits be recovered by way of
damages; and the burden is upon the libellant to prove the
extent of the damages actually sustained by him. Willianison
v. Barrett, 13 How. 101 ; S5turgis v. Clough, 1 Wall. 269; 'The
Cayuga, 2 Benedict, 125; 7 Blatchf. 385; 14 Wall. 270;
The Gazelle, 2 W. Rob. 279; s. c. 3 Notes of Cases, 75;
The Clarence, 3 W. Rob. 283'1 s. c. 7 Notes of Cases, 579.
The report of the commissioner, which was approved in this
respect by both courts below, states that the " Robert E. Lee
was engaged in a certain, permanent, and lucrative trade, making weekly trips on the Mississippi River between New Orleans
and Vicksburg and intermediate ports; and states one item of
the damage to her thus : - Demurrage allowed for loss of three
trips in her established trade, being the profits which, according to the average of her whole business for the season, she would
have realized on said trips, $7,173.48." The reason given by
the Circuit Court for allowing such profits, instead of the charter value of the vessel during the time of her detention, was
that " being engaged in a regular established line, and being
peculiarly fitted for that line, her charter value could not be
satisfactorily ascertained ; and other vessels which could be
procured to supply her place were not equally fitted for the
The comnmissioner's report, and the deposition of
service."
the clerk of the boat, which was made part of that report,
show that the amnoint allowed was ascertained by taking the
average of the profits of the trips performed by her within six.
and a half months next before the collision, deducting only the
expenses as ascertained at the end of each trip, and deducting
nothing for insurance, or for wea'r and tear, or for necessary
repairs at the end of the season. But as the clerk testified
that she was in no need of repair at the time of the collision,
and there was neither suggestion nor evidence before the commissioner that the prem iunms of insurance were lessened while
she was laid tip for repairs, a majority of the court is of opinior

Oct. 1881.]

THE " POTOMAC."

that it cannot be said, as matter of law, that the sum allowed
for her detention was excessive.
The only other question argued at the bar is whether certain
sums paid to the libellant by underwriters on his vessel should
be deducted from the damages which he is entitled to recover
in this suit. The determination of this question depends upon
the effect of the following facts: At the time of the collision, the " Robert E. Lee " was
insured in various sums, amounting to $50,000 in all, against
perils of the sea, river, and fire, by concurrent policies in different insurance companies, each of which valued her at $75,000,
and contained this provision : "1Whenever this company shall
pay any loss, the assured agrees to assign over to said company
all right to recover satisfaction therefor from any other person
or persons, town or other corporation, or the United States
government, or to prosecut therefor at the charge and for
account of the company, if requested. And the said company
shall be entitled to such proportion of said damages recovered
as the amount insured by them bears to the valuation of said
vessel."
The insurance companies paid to the libellant in the aggregate, for the loss sustained by his vessel by the collision, the
sum of $7,429.52, which was arrived at by assuming the damage to her at $14,347.34, including about $2,000 for wages and
expenses during her detention, instead of profits lost, then
deducting one-third of the repairs, new for old, amounting to
$3,203.06, and charging the assured with one-third of the balance, as his portion of the risk assuned, not covered by the
insurance.
After the filing of this libel in the District Court, the insurance companies executed and delivered to the claimants an
instrument in writing, by which, after reciting the collision,
the payment of the insurance money, and that they had never
authorized the bringing or prosecution of this suit, and desired
no suit brought on their account, they released, discharged, and
set over to the owners and master of the " Potomac " "any and
all right which they have in and to any damage, or claim of damage, if any there be, whether legal or equtitable, growing out of
the said collision, and authorize them to use the same, by way

THE " POTOMAC."

[Sup. Ct.

of defCnce or otherwise, in and to the said suit." There was
no evidence that the insurance companies had ever authorized
this suit to be brought, or that the claimants had paid any
consideration for the release and assignment.
The claimants, under apt allegations in their answer and
cross-libel, contended that the amount so paid by the insurance
companies should be deducted from the libellant's damages,
before bringing them into account with him. The District
Court so held, and deducted the whole of that amount from the
moiety of the damages to the " Robert E. Lee " which the
libellant was entitled to recover against the " Potomac." The
Circuit Court, on the other hand, held that no part of that
amount should be deducted. This court is of opinion that
neither of these decisions was correct.
The mere payment of a loss by the insurer does not indeed
afford any defence, in whole or "inpart, to a person, whose
fault has been the cause of the loss, in a suit brought against
the latter by the assured. But upon familiar principles, often
recognized by this court, the insurer acquires by such payment
a corresponding right in any damages to be recovered by the
assured against the wrong-doer, or other party responsible for
the loss, and may enforce this right by action at common law
in the name of the assured, or, when the case admits of proceeding in equity or admiralty, by suit in his own name.
Hall Long v. Railroad Companies, 13 Wall. 367; (Jomegygs
v. Vasse, 1 Pet. 193 ; Fretz v. Bull, 12 How. 466 ; The Jonticello, 17 id. 152 ; Garrisonv. Memphis Insurance Co., 19 id.
See also The Sarah Ann, 2 Sumn. 206; The Ann C.
312.
Pratt, 1 Curt. C. C. 340; Clarlc v. Wilson, 103 Mass. 219;
Yates v. Whyte, 5 Scott, 640; s. c. 4 Bing. N. C. 272; 1
Arnold, 85; Simpson v. Thomson, 3 App. Cas. 279.
This right of the insurer is not contingent upon the loss
having been total, or upon its having been followed by an
abandonment, but rests upon the ground that his contract is ili
the nature of a contract of indemnity, and that he is therefore
entitled, upon paying a sum for which others are primarily
liable to the assured, to be proportionally subrogated to his
right of action against them. Phil. Ins., sect. 1723; Hall j'
Long v. Railroad Companies, 13 Wall. 367, 371; White v.

Oct. 1881.]

THE " POTOMAC."

Dobinson, 14 Siru. 273; Quebec Assurance Co. v. St. Louis,
7 Moo. P. C. 286; Diclkenson v. Jardine, Law Rep. 3 C. P.
639, 644; Simpson v. Thomson, 3 App. Cas. 284, 293; Darrell
v. Tibbitts, 5 Q. B. D. 560.
By the express terms of each of the policies upon the
"Robert E. Lee," the insurers, upon payment of a loss, were
entitled to demand from the assured an assignment of his rigli'
to recover damages against the " Potomac" for the loss so paid
for, or to bring suit for such damages in his name, and to hold to
their own use such proportion of those damages as the amount
insured bore to the valuation of the "Robert E. Lee" in the
policy. And that valuation is conclusive in respect of all
rights and obligations arising upon the policy of insurance.
North of -England-Insurance Association v. Armstrong, Law
Rep. 5 Q. B. 244.
The amount which, by tbe effect of the contract of insurance, and of the payment of a loss under it, the insurers had
the right to recover to their own use from the " Potomac" and
her owners, they had the right to release and assign, if they
saw fit, to those owners. The claim of the latter to a deduction on this account from the damages to be recovered against
them does not arise out of any right of their own, but out of
the right so derived from the insurers. The Circuit Court
therefore erred in holding that no part of this amount should
be deducted from the libellant's damages.
But the insurers are entitled only to damages to be recovered for an injury for which they have paid, and to such proportion only of those damages as the amount insured bears to
the valuation in the policies. As the amount insured was only
two-thirds of the valuation, leaving the owner to stand his own
insurer for the remaining third, and as the damages to be recovered ;n this suit are for the injury to his whole interest,
whether insured or uninsured, it is quite clear that the insurers had no right to more than two-thirds of the damages
so recovered.
Besides, the insurance applied to all injuries caused to the
insired vessel by collision, whether the collision was owing to
unavoidable accident, or to negligence on the part of the other
vessel, or to negligence of the master and crew of the vessel

VENABLE V. RICHARDS.

[Sup. Ct.

insured. Phil. Ins., sects. 1049, 1099; General Mutual -Insurance Co. v. Sherwood, 14 How. 351. The insurers therefore,
within the limit of their policies, were responsible to the assured for the entire damage to his vessel, and not merely for
the moiety thereof, which, because of the fault on her part as
well as on the part of the other vessel, was all that he could
recover against the latter; and the sum paid to him by the
insurers is equally applicable to that portion of the damage
for which he cannot recover against the other vessel and her
owners, as to that portion for which he can so recover.
The necessary consequence is, that only one-half of twothirds, or one-third, of the sum paid to the libellant by the
insurers can be treated as paid on account of the damages
which he can recover in this suit, and, therefore, under the
claim made in the answer and at the argument, that third only
can be deducted from those damages.
The result is, that the decree of the Circuit Couint, awarding
to the libellant the sum of $6,040.37, being one-half of the excess of the daimages sustained by the

"

Robert E. Lee " over

the damages sustained by the " Potomac," must be reversed,
in so far as to deduct from that sun the sum of $2,476.51,
being one-third of the sum paid to him by the insurance comnpanics, and must in other respects be affirmed; and it is
So ordered.

VENABLE V. RICHARDS.
1. Section 643 of the Revised Statutes, providing for removal from State courts
of civil suits against revenue officers, is not superseded by the act of March
3, 1875, c. 137.
2. The tax on snuff is thirty-two cents per pound. Granulated tobacco is not
snuff, within the meaning of the statute.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Virginia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.3r. William P. Burwell for the plaintiffs in error.
The Solicitor-Generalfor the defendant in error.

