Oct. 1881.]

TRUSTEES V. GREENOUGH.

TRUSTEES v.

GREENOUGI.

1. An appeal lies from a decree in equity for costs when they are directed to be
paid, not by a particular party, but out of a fund in the hands, or under the
control, of the court.
2. A decree made by a Circuit Court of the United States, directing that the
complainant be paid his costs and expenses out of a fund in court, - the
fund, in the mean time, remaining in the court in course of administration,-is pro tanto a final decree from which, if their amount be sufficient, an appeal
will lie.
3. A trust estate must bear the necessary expenses of its administration.
4. One jointly interested with others in a common fund, who, in good faith,
maintains the necessary litigation to save it from waste and secure its proper
application, is entitled in equity to the reiiubursement of his costs as between
solicitor and client, either out of the fund itself, or by proportionate contributions from those who receive the benefit of tlme litigation.
5. Where bonds issued by a corporation are secured by a trust fund which the
trustee is wasting or misapplying, or which he refuses or neglects to apply
to the payment of them, a holder of a portion of them who, in good faith,
files a bill to secure a due application of the fund, and succeeds in bringing
it under the control of time court for the common benefit of the bond-holders,
is entitled to be paid front the fund before its distribution his costs, counsel
fees, and necessary expenses of the litigation, that is to say, his costs as
between solicitor and client. A claim, however, for his private expenses,
such as travelling fares and hotel bills, or for his own time or personal
services, cannot be allowed.
6. The practice of allowing to trustees, complainants, and receivers, and their
counsel, large and extravagant counsel fees and commissions payable out of
trust funds under the control of the court, comimented on and disapproved.

APIPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Northern District of Florida.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The ease was argued by Mr. Charles I.

Jones for the appel-

lants, and by Mr. Jefferson Chandler, with whom was Mr.
C. D. Willard, for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE B:RADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The question in this ease is one of costs, expenses, and

allowances awarded to the complainant below out of a trust
fund under the control of the court. Ordinarily a decree will
not be reviewed by this court on a question of costs merely in
a suit in equity, although the court has entire control of the
matter of costs, as well as the merits, when it has possession of

TRUSTEES v. GREENOUGH.

[SLIP. Ct.

the cause on appeal from the final decree. But it was held by
Lord Cottenham, in Aniqell v. Davis (4 Myl. & Craig, 360),
that when the case is not one of personal costs, in which the
court has ordered one party to pay them, but a case in which
the court has directed them to be paid out of a particular fund,
an appeal lies on the part of those interested in the fund.
Lord Cottenham, indeed, suggested other cases in which ain
appeal might lie from a decree for costs, as where the costs are
part of the specific relief prayed ; and where the whole of the
facts distinctly appear upon the face of the proceedings themselves, so that it is not necessary, in determining the question,
to enter into any investigation of the merits. But these snggestions have not met with subsequent approval; and in the
case of Taylor v. Dowlen (Law Rep. 4 Ch. App. 697), the
court declared that they were not disposed to extend the case
of Angell v. Davis; and dismissed an appeal brought by parties
ordered to pay costs, whieh they claimed should be payable
out of a fund.
But these discussions in the English courts arose under a
system in which appeals from interlocutory orders are allowed.
We can only entertain an appeal from a final decree; and supposing the objection to the appeal on the ground of its being
from a decree for costs only is untenable, as we think it is,
then arises another question, whether the orders appealed
Irom amount to a final decree.
The principal suit was commenced in 1870, by a bill filed by
Francis Vose, a large holder of bonds of the Florida Railroad
Company, on behalf of himself and the other bondholders,
against Harrison Reed and others, trustees of the Internal
Improvement Fund of Florida, and against the former members of the same board, and against the board itself as a corporation, and sundry other corporations alleged to be in complicity
with them. That fund consisted of ten or eleven million acres
of lands belonging to the State, including certain proceeds of
the sale of some of them, and was pledged for the payment of
the interest accruing on the bonds and instalments of the sinking fund for meeting the principal, which were largely in arrear. The charge of the bill is to the effect that the trustees
were wasting and destroying the fund by selling at nominal

Oct. 1881.]

TRUSTEES V. GREENOUGH.

prices the lands by the hundred thousand and even million
acres, and failed and refused to provide for the payment of
interest or sinking fund on the bonds. The bill prayed that
the fraudulent conveyances be set aside, and the trustees enjoined from selling more lands, and that a receiver be appointed
to take care of the fund.
The litigation was carried on with great vigor and at much
expense, and in fact a large amount of the trust fund was
secured and saved; the management of the fund was taken
out of the hands of the trustees; agents were appointed by
the court to make sales of the land, and made a large number
of sales ; a considerable amount of money was realized, and
dividends have been made amongst the bondholders, most of
whom came in and took the benefit of the litigation. Vose,
the complainant, bore the whole burden of this litigation, and
advanced most of the expenses which were necessary for the
purpose of rendering it effective and successful. In 1875 he
filed a petition, setting forth these advances and the efforts
made by him, and prayed an allowance out of the fund for his
expenses and services. In December, 1876, an order was
made by the court referring it to a master to ascertain 1.
What and by whom the necessary expenditures have been
incurred in bringing the moneys already received into court.
2. What necessary expenditures have been made, and by
whom, in protecting the landed and sinking fund from which
this money has been and will be realized. 3. What personal
services have been rendered, and by whom, in said work, and
the value thereof. 4. What amount of same have been
charged to Francis Vose by the receiver, instead of being paid
out of the common fund in his hands.
Vose presented his account and vouchers before the master,
and testimony was taken on the subject. In 1877 the master
made a report, in which, amongst other things, lie stated as
follows:
"First, After consideration of the proofs as submitted to
me, I find and report that the moneys which have already
been received, whether upon account of the internal improvement fund or of the sinking fund, have been brought into
court at the instance and the suit and by the sole efforts of
VOL. XV.

34

TiiUSTEFS V. GREENOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

Francis Vose, the petitioner, through himself, his solicitors
and his agents, and by the instrumentality more directly and
especially of his proceeding in equity against the Trustees of
the Internal Improvement Fund et al., as they appear in the
records which are made evidence in this case."
The master further reported a statement of expenditures
made by Vose in the cause, and declared that they were necessary expenditures, being for fees of solicitors and counsel, costs
of court, and sundry small incidental items for copying records
and the like, the whole amounting to $34,192.62. Ile also
stated and allowed sundry fees paid in maintaining other suits
in New York, and on appeal to this court, attorneys' fees for
resisting fraudulent coupons, and expenses paid to attorneys
and agents to investigate fraudulent grants of the trust lands,
le also reported in favor of
amounting in all to $19,745.68.
an allowance to Vose for his personal services and expenditures, as follows:" I further find and report that peculiar and great personal
services have been rendered by the petitioner, Francis Vose, in
the work of protecting the internal improvement and the sinking funds ; those services extending over a period of more than
eleven years. By the instrumentality of the suits already
mentioned as having been instituted by him, by the agencies
he employed and sustained, and by his own vigilance and personal efforts he has saved from spoliation and subjected to the
decrees of this court a vast domain of over ten millions of acres
of land; and has brought into this court large sums of money,
which, from time to time, have been distributed by its orders.
"I consider and report that the charge embraced in his itemized account, and numbered forty-two (42), for $25,000 principal, and $9,625 interest, is reasonable and just.
"I also find that the charge in his itemized account, numbered forty-one (41), for personal expenditures of $15,003.35,
is reasonable and just. Total $40,003.35."
The first of these items consisted of an allowance of $2,500
a year for ten years of personal services; the second was for
railroad fares and hotel bills paid by the complainant.
The proceedings before the master were opposed; but, on a
hearing upon the report and the evidence submitted therewith,

Oct. 1881.]

TRUSTEES V. GREENOU(H.

the court confirmed it to the extent of $27,835.34, allowing
generally the fees of the officers of the court, and those of
the attorneys and solicitors employed in the cause, including
charges as between attorney and client; at the same time disallowing certain fees paid to advisory counsel and other items
not directly connected with the suit, and referring the remainder of the report for further evidence and hearing. In December, 1-879, after additional evidence had been taken, a final
order was made, allowing sundry expenses for looking after
and reclaiming the trust lands, and also allowing for the personal expenses and services of Vose embraced in the two items
before referred to ; the total amount allowed being $60,131.96.
The appeal to this court is taken from these orders of the
court below; and it is contended that they were illegal, because
Vose was not before the court in the character of a trustee,
and therefore not entitled to reimbursement of his expenses
beyond taxable costs; and because the allowances were not
lawful if he had been such trustee. The objections to the
orders are not expressed in this precise form; but this is the
substance of them.
The first question, however, is whether these orders do or do
not amount to a final decree, upon which an appeal lies to this
court. They are certainly a final determination of the particular matter arising upon the complainant's petition for allowances, and direct the payment of money out of the fund in the
hands of the receiver. Though incidental to the cause, the
inquiry was a collateral one, having a distinct and indepeiident
character, and received a final decision.
The administration
of the fund for the benefit of the bondholders may continue in
the court for a long time to come, dividends being made from
time to time in payment of coupons still unsatisfied. The case
is a peculiar one, it is true; but under all the circumstances,
we think that the proceeding may be regarded as so far independent as to make the decision substantially a final decree for
the purposes of an appeal.
As to the point made by the appellants, that the complainant
is only a creditor, seeking satisfaction of his debt, and cannot
be regarded in the light of a trustee, and therefore is not entitled to an allowance for any expenses or counsel fees beyond

TRUSTEES

V. GREENOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

taxed costs as between party and party, a great deal may be
said. In ordinary cases the position of the appellants may be
correct. But in a case like the present, where the bill was
filed not only in behalf of the complainant himself, but in behalf
of the other bondholders having an equal interest in the fund ;
and where the bill sought to rescue that fund from waste and
destruction arising from the neglect and misconduct of the
trustees, and to bring it into court for administration according
to the purposes of the trust: and where all this has been done;
and done at great expense and trouble on the part of the complainant; and the other bondholders have come in and participated in the benefits resulting from his proceedings, - if the
complainant is not a trustee, he has at least acted the part of a
trustee in relation to the common interest. He may be said to
have saved the fund for the cestuis que trust, and to have secured its proper application to their use. There is no doubt,
from the evidence, that, besides the bestowment of his time for
years almost exclusively to the pursuit of this object, he has
expended a large amount of money for which no allowance has
been made, nor can properly be made. It would be very bard
on him to turn him away without any allowance except the
paltry sum which could be taxed under the fee-bill. It would
not only be unjust to him, but it would give to the other parties entitled to participate in the benefits of the fund an unfair
advantage. He has worked for them as well as for himself;
and if he cannot be reimbursed out of the fund itself, they
ought to contribute their due proportion of the expenses which
he has fairly incurred. To make them a charge upon the fund
is the most equitable way of securing such contribution. And
such charge cannot be justly complained of by the trustees of
the internal improvement fund, because, however fair may
have been the conduct of the present trustees, who were elected
to their positions since the acts complained of were committed
by their predecessors, those acts, as the event of the cause
shows, furnished abundant ground for instituting the proceedings.
It is a general principle that a trust estate must bear the
expenses of its administration. It is also established by sufficient authority, that where one of many parties having a con-

Oct. 1881.]

TRUSTEES V. GREENOUGH.

mon interest in a trust fund, at his own expense takes proper
proceedings to save it from destruction and to restore it to the
purposes of the trust, he is entitled to reimbursement, either
out of the fund itself, or by proportional contribution from
those who accept the benefit of his efforts. This has long
been the rule in relation to proceedings for restoring property
to the uses of a charity, which has been unjustly diverted
therefrom. Thus, in Attorney-General v. The Brewers' Company (1 P. W. 376), Lord Chancellor Cowper allowed costs
to the relators out of the improved rents which they received
for the charity, "for that they had been serviceable to the
charity, by easing them of the six hundred and twenty pounds
debt which was claimed against them." In Attorney- General
v. Kerr (4 Beav. 297), it is conceded to be the general rule
that the relator in a charity information, upon obtaining a
decree, is entitled to his costs as between solicitor and client.
In that case they were not allowed out of the general charity
estate, but were charged upon the particular property recovered.
The same rule was followed in Attorney-General v. Old
South Society, 13 Allen (Mass.), 474.
Of course, it is well understood that costs as between solicitor and client include all reasonable expenses and counsel fees,
and are not like costs as between party and party, confined to
the taxed costs allowed by the fee-bill,
This difference is
pointed out in the case of In re Paschal, 10 Wall. 483, 493.
The same rule is applied to creditors' suits, where a fund
has been realized by the diligence of the plaintiff. In England, where specialty creditors have a preference, a simplecontract creditor who recovers a fund for the general benefit
is allowed his costs, as between party and party, out of the
fund in preference to all other claims; and the balance of his
costs, as between solicitor and client, are to be paid either out
of the fund or pro rata by all the creditors who partake of the
benefit of the suit. This was the judgment in Stanton v. fIatfield, 1 Keen, 358; followed in Thompson v. Cooper, 2 Col.
C. C. 87. In the latter case Vice-Chancellor Knight Bruce
said: "Having come in and proved, and obtained the benefit of the suit which was instituted on their behalf, as well

TRUSTEES V. GREENOUGHt.

[Sup. Ct.

as that of the plaintiff, it cannot be just that in such a suita suit instituted for the benefit of all the creditors - one
alone should bear the burden, when others have the benefit."
To the same purport are Tootal v. Spicer, 4 Sim. 510; Larkins
v. P~axton, 2 Myl. & K. 320; Barker v. Wardle, id. 818; Sutton v. -Doggett, 3 Beav. 9.
The rule that a party who recovers a fund for the common
benefit of creditors is entitled to have his costs and expenses
paid out of the fund, prevails in bankruptcy cases. In Worrall
v. Harford (8 Ves. Jr. 4), Lord Eldon said: "The petitioning
creditor is answerable till the assignment. Can there be a
doubt that the assignees, if there be nothing special in the
deed, would have a clear right to pay all the expenses incurred? It would be implied if not expressed." This rule
has been followed by the District Courts of the United States.
See a forcible opinion of Judge Bryan, it re Williams (2 Bank.
Reg. 28), in the District Court of South Carolina ; and In the
Matter of O'Hara (8 Law Reg. N. s. 113), in the western district of Pennsylvania. In a case in Massachusetts before Judge
Lowell the same rule was adopted. The petitioning creditors
charged as an act of bankruptcy the execution of a mortgage
by the debtors, and having succeeded, after much opposition,
in substantiating the charge, they asked that counsel fees
should be allowed them out of the estate. The remarks of
Judge Lowell are so apposite, and seem to us so well considered, that we quote from his opinion. "A petition in invitum," says he, "to have a debtor adjudged bankrupt is for
the benefit of all his unsecured creditors; and a favorable
decree gives them all a proportionate advantage, and the court
has no power to order, as is often done in chancery, that this
advantage shall depend upon their contributing to the expenses
of the suit ; but any creditor may carry on the proceedings if
the petitioner should refuse to do so ; and after adjudication
all may prove their debts. In this case the fund from which
the dividend will be paid is due entirely to the exertions of the
petitioners in setting aside the mortgage ; and, in most cases,
though not in this, no single creditor, nor any three or four of
of them, have a sufficient interest to enable them to undertake
the conduct of the proceedings without positive loss of money

Oct. 1881.]

TRUSTEES V. GREENOUGH.

if they cannot tax the expenses on the fund, for those expenses
will usually exceed the dividend on their debts .... The strong
equities of the petitioner's case are not difficult to discover;
and the practice under the act of 1841 was to allow such a
charge out of the assets, as I find by examining the records.
My doubt was of my power in the premises under the fee-bill
of 26th February, 1853 (10 Stat. 161), which does not appear to
sanction it, and does appear to be intended to cover the whole
ground of taxation of costs at law and in equity and admiralty ; and by the general orders, these petitions follow the rule
of cases in equity in all matters of costs. Upon reflection I
have concluded that the fee-bill is probably intended to reach
only taxable costs commonly so called, and may have its full
effect without being construed to take away the poer of a
court of equity to permit counsel fees to be taxed in those
cases where a fund is in court upon or to which different parties have distinct rights or claims. . . . I have been referred to
the record of a ease in equity in the Circuit Court in which
Judge Sprague, since the passage of the fee-bill, ordered the
counsel fees of. all parties to be paid out of the fund ; and
Judge Kane adopted a like rule in -Ex parte Plitt, 2 Wall. Jr.
453. These decisions, and those in bankruptcy already cited,
Justify me in construing the statute in the way which the equities of the case so clearly demand."
The views here expressed with regard to the application of
the fee-bill to cases of this sort are undoubtedly correct. The
fee-bill is intended to regulate only those Fees and costs which
are strictly chargeable as between 1ar y and party, and not to
regulate the fees of counsel and other expenses and charges as
between solicitor and client, nor the power of a court of equity,
in cases of administration of funds under its control, to make
such allowance to the parties out of the fund as justice and
equity may require. The fee-bill itself expressly provides that
it shall not be construed to prohibit attorneys, solicitors, and
proctors from charging to and receiving from their clients
(other than the government) such reasonable compensation for
their services, in addition to the taxable costs, as may be in accordance with general usage in their respective States, or may
be agreed upon between the parties. Act of Feb. 26, 1853, c. 80,

TaUSTEES v. GREENOUGH.[

[Sup. Ct.

10 Stat. 161; Rev. Stat., sect. 823. And the act contains
nothing which can be fairly construed to deprive the Court
of Chancery of its long-established control over the costs and
charges of the litigation, to be exercised as equity and justice
may require, including proper allowances to those who have
instituted proceedings for the benefit of a general fund.
This court, in the case of Cowdrey v. Galveston, ,fe. Railroad Co. (93 U. S. 352), sustained an allowance of $5,000
for counsel fees to be paid to counsel out of the proceeds of a
railroad mortgage, foreclosed in the Circuit Court for the
District of Texas, - being the amount agreed by the trustees
to be paid for instituting proceedings which were discontinued
by the intervention of the civil war. A new bill was afterwards filed by some of the bondholders, and the fund was
brought into court, and the fee in question was directed to be
paid by the receiver. We regarded the charge as a proper one
to be paid out of the fund. Liberal allowances were also made
by the Circuit Court in the same case for counsel fees and other
charges incurred by the complainants in the cause, which were
never brought to this court for review.
In the vast amount of litigation which has arisen in this
country upon railroad mortgages, where various parties have
intervened for the protection of their rights, and the fund has
been subjected to the control of the court and placed in the
hands of receivers or trustees, it has been the common practice,
as well in the courts of the United States as in those of the
States, to make fair and just allowances for expenses and
counsel fees to the trustees, or other parties, promoting the
litigation and securing the due application of the property to
the trusts and charges to which it was subject. Sometimes, no
doubt, these allowances have been excessive, and perhaps illegal ; and we would be very far from expressing our approval
of such large allowances to trustees, receivers, and counsel as
have sometimes been made, and which have justly excited
severe criticism.
Still, a just respect for the eminent judges under whose direction many of these cases have been administered would lead
to the conclusion that allowances of this kind, if made with
moderation and a jealous regard to the rights of those who are

Oct. 1881.]

TRUSTEES v. GLEENOUGII.

interested in the fund, are not only admissible, but agreeable
to the principles of equity and justice.
The subject of allowances to be made to trustees eo nomine
is very fully examined in the books. An exhaustive citation
of both English and American authorities is to be found in the
notes to the case of Robinson v. Pett, 2 White & Tudor's
Leading Cases in Equity, 238, American edition, pp. 512-600;
and see Perry on Trusts, sects. 894, 910, 912.
It is unnecessary, however, to pursue the subject further.
The conclusion to which we have come is that, under the circumstances of this case, the Circuit Court had the power, in
its discretion, to allow to the complainant, Vose, his reasonable
costs, counsel fees, charges, and expenses incurred in the fair
prosecution of the suit, and in reclaiming and rescuing the
trust fund and causing it to be subjected to the purposes of
the trust. The allowances made for these purposes we have
examined, and do not find anything therein seriously objectionable. The court below should have considerable latitude
of discretion on the subject, since it has far better means of
knowing what is just and reasonable than an appellate court
can have. It is not shown in this case by the appellants that
any of these allowances are excessive, or that the expenditures
allowed were not fairly and honestly made.
But there is one class of allowances made by the court
which we consider decidedly objectionable. We refer to those
made for the personal services and private expenses of the
complainant. In England and some of the States, no such
allowance is made even to trustees eo nonzine. In other States
it is. But the complainant was not a trustee. Ile was a
creditor, suing on behalf of himself and other creditors, for
his and their own benefit and advantage. The reasons which
apply to his expenditures incurred in carrying on the suit, and
reclaiming the property subject to the trust, do not apply to
his personal services and private expenses. We can find no
authority whatever for any such charge by a person in his
situation. Where an allowance is made to trustees for their
personal services, it is made with a view to secure greater
activity and diligence in the performance of the trust, and to
induce persons of reliable character and business capacity to

TIRUSTEES V. GREENOUGH.

[Slip. Ct.

accept the office of trustee. These considerations have no
application to the case of a creditor seeking his rights in a
judicial proceeding. It would present too great a temptation
to parties to intermeddle in the management of valuable property or funds in which they have only the interest of creditors,
and that perhaps only to a small amount, if they could calculate upon the allowance of a salary for their time and of having all their private expenses paid. Such an allowance has
neither reason nor authority for its support.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the allowance for these
purposes was illegally made, and that to this extent the orders
should be reversed. We refer to the allowance in the last
order, of $15,003.35 for private expenses, and of $34,625 for
personal services. As to those items the said last order will
be reversed, and in all other respects both of the orders appealed from will be affirmed ; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER dissenting.

While I agree to the decree of the court in this case, I do
not agree to the opinion, so far as it is an argument in favor
of a principle on which is founded the grossest judicial abuse
of the present day; namely, the absorption of a property or a
fund which. comes into the control of a court, by making
allowances for attorneys' fees and other expenses, pending the
litigation, payable out of the common fund, when it may be
finally decided that the party who employed the attorney, or
incurred the costs, never had any interest in the property or
fund in litigation.
This system of paying from a man's property those engaged
in the effort to wrest it from him can never receive my approval; and as I have had no opportunity to examine the
authorities cited in the opinion, I can do no more than protest
against the doctrine.

