Oct. 1881.]

O ECHT v. BoUGHTON.

HECHT v. BOUGHTON.
An appeal is the only form of proceeding by which this court can review the
judgment or the decree of a territorial court in a case where there was not a
trial by jury.
MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Wyoming.

Mr. Thomas Turner in support of the motion.
Mr. B. W. Mann, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Wyoming, to bring up for review the judgment in a suit
where there was not a trial by jury. A motion is now made
to dismiss, because the case should have been brought here by
appeal, and not by writ of error.
The second section of the act of April 7, 1874, c. 80 (18
Stat., pt. 3, p. 27), is as follows: " That the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the
United States over the judgments and decrees of said territorial
courts in cases of trial by jury shall be exercised by writ of error,
and in all other cases by appeal, according to such rules and regu-

lations as to form and modes of proceeding as the said Supreme
Court have prescribed or may hereafter prescribe:
"_Provided, that on appeal, instead of the evidence at large, a
statement of the facts of the case in the nature of a special verdict,
and also the rulings of the court on the admission or rejection of
evidence when excepted to, shall be made and certified by the court
below, and transmitted to the Supreme Court, together with the
transcript of the proceedings, and judgment or decree; but no appellate proceedings in said Supreme Court, heretofbre taken upon
any such judgment or decree, shall be invalidated by reason of

being instituted by writ of error or appeal:
" And provided further, that the appellate court may make any
order in any case heretofore appealed which may be necessary to
save the rights of parties; and that this act shall not apply to cases
now pending in the Supreme Court of the United States, where the
record has already been filed."

HECHT

v.

BOUGHTON.[

[Sup. Ct.

This statute seems to us conclusive of the present motion.
In allowing legal and equitable remedies to be sought in the
same action before the territorial courts, Congress saw fit to
establish an inflexible rule by which it could be determined
whether a case should be brought here from those courts for
review by writ of error or appeal, and provided that cases tried
by a jury should come on writ of error, and all others by appeal.
This makes the form of proceeding depend on the single fact
of whether there has been, or not, a trial by jury. Stringfellow
v. Cain, 99 U. S. 610. We are not to consider the testimony
in any case. Upon a writ of error we are confined to the bill
of exceptions, or questions of law otherwise presented by the
record; and upon an appeal, to the statement of facts and
rulings certified by the court below. The facts set forth in the
statement which must come up with the appeal are conclusive
on us. Under these circumstances, the form of proceeding to
get a review is not of so much importance as certainty about
what is to be done.
We cannot agree with counsel for the plaintiff in error that
the act of Congress was intended to apply only to those Territories where the distinction between suits at law and suits in
equity had actually been abolished. From the preamble it
may fairly be inferred that the object of the legislation was to
prevent embarrassments growing out of the mingling of jurisdictions; but the statute as it stands clearly applies to all territorial courts.
Motidn granted.

