COUNTY OF RALLS

v.

DOUGLASS.

[Sup. Ct.

COUNTY OF RALLS V. DOUGLASS.
1. County bonds issued in Missouri by a defacto county court, which are sealed
with the seal and signed by the defiacto president thereof, cannot, when held
by bona fide purchasers, be impeached by showing that le was not de jure a
member of the court.
2. It is no defence to a suit on such bonds so held that tile company, ill payment
of the county subscription to whose capital stock they were issued, was not
organized within the period prescribed by law.
3. The validity of such bonds cannot be impeached upon the ground that after
the Constitution of Missouri of 1865 took effect they, without a vote of the
people authorizing it, were issued to pay for such a subscription, if the latter was made pursuant to the authority of tie charter granted to the company iin 1857.
4. Such bonds so issued are admissible in evidence, although no internal revenue
staimp is thereunto affixed.
5. In t suit against the county On the bonds, the execution of theln is admitted,
unless it be denied by a plea or a1 answer, verified by affidavit.
6. Where the ownership was alleged in the petition, and the answer denied that
the coupons were, in good faith and before they inatured, owned by the
plaintiff, evidence of tile fact is admissible.

EnRoit to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.

This suit was brought by Joseph M. Douglass against the
County of Ralls, to recover the amount due upon certain interest coupons detached fron bonds issued by the defendant
in paymen't of its subscription to the capital stock of the St.

Louis and Keokuk Railroad Company, which was incorporated
by an act of the General Assembly of Missouri approved Feb.

16, 1857.
The section of the act under which the county claimed the
right to subscribe is set forth in the opinion of this court in
the following case, p. 733.
The bonds are sealed with the seal of the county court,
tested by the clerk, and countersigned by the agent of the
county. Those bearing date Feb. 10, 1870, recite that they

are issued under the authority of said act, and in purstance
of an order of the county court of Feb. 8, 1870, to subscribe $200,000 to the capital stock of that company. Those
bearing date June 13, 1871, differ in their recitals from the

others, in stating that they are issued in pursuance of that

Oct. 1881.]

COUNTY OF RALLS

v.

DOUGLASS.

order and of an order amendatory thereof dated June 13,
1871.
A demurrer was sustained to several of the defences set up
in the answer. Upon the issues of fact the jury rendered a
verdict for the plaintiff, and, judgment having been rendered
thereon, the county brought this writ of error. The questions
arising upon the demurrer and during the trial are stated in
the opinion of the court.
Mr. Henry A. Cunninghavn for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. John I. Overall for the defendant in error.
Mr. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITn: delivered the opinion of the
court.
If we understand correctly the questions presented in this
case, they are1. Whether, if county bonds are issued in Missouri by a de
facto county court, and are sealed with the seal of the court
and signed by the de facto president, they can be impeached
in the hands of an innocent holder by showing that the acting
president was not de jure one of the justices of the court.
2. Whether it can be shown as a defence to bonds issued by
counties in Missouri in payment of subscriptions to the capital
stock of a company, and in the hands of innocent holders, that
the company to whose stock the subscription was made was
not organized within the time limited by its charter.
3. Whether bonds issued by counties in Missouri during
the years 1870 and 1871, in payment of subscriptions to the
stock of railroad companies, without a vote of the people, are
invalid if the subscription was made under authority of charters granted in 1857, which did not require such a vote to be
taken.
4. Whether county bonds and coupons issued in the years
1870 and 1871, in payment of subscriptions to railroad companies, were admissible in evidence on the trial of an action
against the county for the recovery of the amount due thereon,
if not stamped as obligations for the payment of money under
the provisions of the internal revenue laws of the United States
in force at the time of their issue.
5. Whether in this suit it was necessary to prove the order

COUNTY OF RALLS V. DOUGLASS.

LSup. Ct.

of the county court authorizing the president of the court to
sign and the agent to countersign the bonds, there being no
plea or answer sworn to denying the execution of the bonds or
coupons sued on.
6. Whether testimony was admissible to prove that the
plaintiff was a bona fide holder and owner of the coupons sued
on, there being no averment in the petition to that effect.
There are other questions presented by the assignments of
error, but they are not alluded to in the argument, and we do
not decm them of sufficient importance to require attention.
1. As to the competency of the court.
In no State is it more authoritatively settled than in Missouri that " the acts of an officer de facto (although his title
may be bad) are valid, so far as they concern the public or the
rights of third persons who have an interest in the things
done." In State v. Douglass (50 Mo. 593, 596), the Supreme
Court of that State said: " Without this rule the business of
a community could not be transacted. The public are necessarily compelled to do business with an officer who is exercising the duties and privileges of an office under color of right,
and to say that his acts as to strangers should be void would
lie productive of irreparable mischief. It would cause a suspension of business till every officer's right de jure was estabTo the same effect is Ilarbaugh v. Winsor, 38 id.
lished."
327. This is conclusive. The question here is not whether
Dimmnick- was de, jure probate judge of Ralls County, but
whether he was acting under color of right as a justice and
president of the county court. That is averred in the petition
and not denied in the answer. His right to the office is one
thing; his action while exercising the duties of the office,
another.
2. As to the organization of the company.

Both this court and the Supreme Court of Missouri have
held over and over again that such a defence as was here set
up cannot be maintained. Bale Bank v. Merchants' Banc
of Baltimore, 10 id. 123; Kayser v. Trustees of Bremen,
16 id. 88; Smnith v. County, of Clarlk, 54 id. 58; City qf St.
Louis v. Shields, 62 id. 247; County of Macon v. ,Stores, 97
U. S. 272.

Oct. 1881.]

COUNTY OF IIALLS V. DOUGLASS.

3. As to the vote of the people.
The Supreme Court of Missouri has many times decided,
and this court, following such decisions, has always held, that
the provision in the State Constitution of 1865, art. 11, sect.
14, prohibiting a county from becoming a stockholder in or
loaning its credit to a corporation without a vote of the people,
was intended as a limitation on future legislation only, and did
not operate to repeal enabling acts in existence when the Constitution took effect. State v. Macon County Court, 41 Alo.
453; Kansas City, &c.Railroad Co. v. Alderman, 47 id. 349;
State v. County Court of Sullivan County, 51 id. 522, decided
in 1873, in which it was said, "it has always been held that the
provision of the Constitution, art. 11, sect. 14, was a limitation
upon the future power of the legislature, and was not intended
to retroaet so as to have any controlling application to laws in
existence when the Constitution was adopted ; " State v. Greene
County, 54 id. 540; County qf Callaway v. Foster, 93 U. S.
567; County of Scotland v. Thomas, 94 id. 682; County of
Henry v. Nicolay, 95 id. 619; County of Cass v. Gillett, 100
id. 585. When all these cases were decided the act of March
23, 1861, was in force, which provided that it should not be
lawful for counties to subscribe to the stock of railroad conla
panies until an election had been held under the provisions of
that act, yet it seems never to have been specially referred to,
either by counsel or the court, except once in Smith v. Clarle
County (54 Mo. 58, 70), when Napton, J., said: " So that the
provisions of the revised code of 1855, and the amendatory acts
of 1860 and 1861, and the constitutional prohibition, and the
legislative adoption of that prohibition immediately after its
passage, have been held by repeated adjudications, and without any conflicting opinions of the court, or any individual
judge thereof, so far as their reports show, not to effect the repeal of the privileges contained in special charters."
Such being the condition of the law on this subject down to
April, 1878, we do not feel inclined to reconsider our former
rulings, and follow the later decisions of the Supreme Court of
the State in State v. Garroute (67 Mo. 445) and State v. Dallas
County (72 id. 329), where this whole line of cases was substantially overruled. The bonds involved in this suit were all in

COUNTY OF IRALLS

v. DOUGLASS.

[Sup. Ct.

the hands of innocent holders when the law of the State was so
materially altered by its courts. In our opinion, the rights of
the parties to this suit are to be determined by the " law as it
was judicially construed to be when the bonds in question were
put on the market as commercial paper." Douglass v. Pi/ce
County, 101 U. S. 687.
4. As to the stamps.
The act of July 13, 1866, c. 184 (14 Stat. 141), amending
sect. 154 of June 30, 1864, c. 173 (13 id. 293), provided that
all official instruments, documents, and papers issued by the
officers of the United States government, or by the officers of
any State, county, town, or other municipal corporation, should
be exempt from taxation. This exempted the class of public
securities to which these bonds and coupons belong. It is,
indeed, said in a proviso that the intention was only to exempt
State, county, town, or municipal corporations from taxation
while in the exercise of the functions strictly belonging to them
in their ordinary governmental and municipal capacity; but
that does not, as we think, affect this case. These bonds were
issued by this county in its municipal capacity, and for purposes which were declared by law to be municipal.
5. As to the proof of authority from the county court.
It is conceded that, under the practice in Missouri, unless
the execution of the bonds was denied under oath, their execution was admitted. There was no such denial here. Hence it
was only necessary to prove such facts connected with the execution as were directly put in issue by the pleadings. The
only defence relied on under this branch of the case was the
authority of the court to make the order it did. All else was,
therefore, admitted. As the presiding judge was necessarily
the president of the court, the bonds are not invalid because
signed by the president as presiding judge.
6. As to proof of bonafide ownership.
Ownership was alleged in the petition. This ownership at
the maturity of the coupons and for value was denied in the
answer. This clearly made the evidence not only proper but
necessary.
Since all the defences relied on involved questions of law
only, except that as to bona fide ownership, and the court

OCt. 1881.]

RALLS

COUNTY COURT V. UNITED STATES.

733

correctly decided the legal propositions in favor of the plaintiff,
it was not error to instruct the jury to bring in a verdict for
the plaintiff if they believed he was a bona fide holder and
owner of the cou)Qns sued for.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD did not sit in this case, nor take

any part in deciding it.

RALLS

COUNTY

COURT V. UNITED

STATES.

1. Where judgment has been duly obtained in Missouri against a county upon
coupons detached from its bonds, no defence which questions their validity
can be pleaded to a mandomins commanding the county court to pay the
judgment from moneys in the treasury, or raise the means therefor by the
levy of a special tax.
2. If not restrained by some valid special limitation upon the exercise of its
taxing power, a county, authorized by law to contract an extraordinary
debt by the issue of negotiable securities, can levy a tax sufficient to meet
the principal and interest, as they respectively mature. Uied States v.
New Orleans (99 U. S. 582) cited upon this point and approved.
3. A general law confining the annual tax "to defray the expenses of the
county" to a fixed per centam is not applicable to such a debt.
4. After the debt was created, laws passed, depriving the county court of the
requisite power to levy the tax which it possessed when the bonds were
issued, are invalid.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Henry A. Cunningham for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. John I. Overall, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, delivered the opinion of the
court.

Section 29 of the act to incorporate the St. Louis and
Keokuk Railroad Company, approved Feb. 16, 1857, is as
follows: -

