RAILROAD

Co. v. LOFTIN.

[Sup. Ct.

that a reasonable allowance for profits will be fifteen dollars
on each pump, or $4,470 in all.
The decree will be reversed, and the cause remanded with
instructions to sustain the fifth exception to the report of the
master, and enter a decree against the appellees for $4,470 and
costs ; and it is
So ordered.

RAILROAD COMPANY v. LOFTIN.
1. Lands in Arkansas, granted by the State to the Memphis and St. Louis Railroad Company, and held for the purpose of raising money to build its road,
are not, by its charter, exempt from taxation. Railroad Comnpany v. Lftin
(98 U. S. 559) cited upon this point and approved. Q(usre, Are the lands
exempt which were acquired by the company in payment for its increased
stock.
2. The swamp and overflowed lands donated by the United States to Arkansas
are, unless sooner reclaimed, exempt from taxation for ten years after they
have been sold by the State.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERRoR

Mr. William Y. C. Hurmes for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Augustus II. Garland,contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was a suit in equity, brought by the Memphis & St.
Louis Railroad Company in the Circuit Court of Jackson
County, Arkansas, to restrain the collection of taxes imposed
under the authority of the State upon certain lands in that
county owned by the company. The Supreme Court of the
State affirmed the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the
bill on demurrer. The complainant thereupon sued out this
writ of error.
Two questions are presented for our consideration :
1. Whether the State by imposing the tax has impaired the
obligation of a contract in the charter exempting the capital
stock of the company from taxation; and,

Oct. 1881.]

RAILROAD Co. v. LOFTIN.

2. Whether it has impaired the obligation of a contract made
with the purchasers of its swamp and overflowed lands for exemption from taxation.
1. As to the charter.
The section of the charter relied on is as follows :
"SECT.

21. The capital stock of said company, with all the im-

munities and franchises herein specified, and all machinery, cars,
engines, or carriages, belonging to said company, together with all
their works and property, and all profits which shall arise friom the
same, shall be vested in the respective stockholders forever, in proportion to their respective shares; and the capital stock of' said
company, and the dividends, shall be exempted fiom taxation until
a dividend of six per cent is realized upon the capital stock, and
the road, with all its fixtures, and appurtenances, including workshops, warehouses, and vehicles of transportation, shall be exempted
from taxation for the period of twenty-five years from the completion of the road, and no tax shall ever be levied on said road or
its fixtures which will reduce its dividends below ten per cent per
annum. Said stockholders shall not be bound or liable for any
greater amount than the respective shares of stock which they or
either of them own."
The averment in the complaint to bring the lands in question
under this exemption is in the following words: "And that the said lands were acquired by the plaintiff
and are now held by it for the purpose of raising money to
build said road, and that it is a part of the property of said
company, fully represented by its capital stock and not otherwise, and that said road has not as yet been completed, and
that no dividend has as yet been realized on said capital stock,
or any part thereof."
In Railway Company v. Loftin (98 U. S. 559), in passing
upon a provision of the charter of the Mississippi Valley Railroad Company, substantially like the section here relied on,
this court held that the exemption did not extend to lands
granted by the State to the company to aid in the construction
of its railroad. Such lands, it was then said, were used in lieu
of capital, and to the extent they could be made available
relieved the company from the necessity of raising money
through stock subscriptions. Like the court below, we are

RAILROAD

Co. v. LOFTIN.

[SUp. Ct.

unable to distinguish the case made by this complaint from
that. The only material averment of fact in this connection
is that the lands in question are held by the company for the
purpose of raising money to build its road. This is entirely
consistent with their use in lieu of capital. It is true the complaint alleges that the lands are fully represented by the capital stock, but that is only as a legal conclusion from what was
stated before. The facts showing why the lands represented
the capital must be set forth. Those which have been stated
are not enough, and consequently the legal conclusion which
the pleader has drawn from them in the complaint cannot be
sustained.
In the elaborate printed argument presented for the plaintiff
in error, reference is made to facts not stated in the complaint.
These we cannot consider. As the case was submitted on
demurrer, only the averments in the complaint are before us.
While we may take judicial notice of the several statutes of

the State which are relied on, the complaint alone must be
looked to for information as to the manner in which the lands
were acquired and the purposes for which they are held.
While it may be true, as is claimed, that, under sect. 3 of
the charter of the company, lands might have been accepted
in payment for increased stock, and that the lands in question
were acquired in that way, it is not so stat6d in the complaint.
Whether, if the facts as claimed in argument had been stated,
the exemption contended for would follow, is not for us now to
decide. Upon this branch of the case, as it comes to us, the
judgment below was, in our opinion, right, and must consequently be affirmed.
2. As to the swamp lands.
These were part of the swamp and overflowed lands donated
by the United States to the State, and the State statute providing for their reclamation and sale contained the following:

-

" SECT. 14. Be it further enacted, that to encourage by all just
means the progress and completion of the reclamation by offering

inducements to purchasers and contractors to take up said lands,
that the swamp and overflowed lands shall be exempt from tavation for the term of ten years, or until said lands arc reclaimed."

Oct. 1881.]

RAILROAD Co. v. LOFTIN.

That under this section purchasers of the lands acquired a
right by contract to exemption from taxation for the stipulated time is not denied, and this court so decided in McGee
v. Mathis, 4 Wall. 143. The only dispute is as to the time
the exemption is to continue. The railroad company insists
that it is for ten years absolutely, and thereafter until the
lands are reclaimed ; the State, that it is for ten years, if the
lands are not sooner reclaimed, but if they are, that it ceases
on the reclamation. The Supreme Court of the State, in State
v. County Court of Crittenden County (19 Ark. 360), as early
as January, 1858, gave the statute the construction now contended for by the State, and this decision has never been overruled. It was expressly recognized by the Supreme Court of
the State in Me Gee v. Mathis (21 id. 40), and by this court
in the same case, which came here on writ of error, and is
reported in the 4th of Wallace, supra. Counsel frankly concede that the language of the statute is ambiguous, and that
the grammatical construction is in accordance with what has
been ruled. All such exemptions are to be construed strictly.
Every doubt is to be resolved in favor of the power to tax.
Under such circumstances, if the question were an open one,
we should have little difficulty in reaching the same conclusion
as the courts of the State have done. Manifestly, therefore,
we are not now called upon to overrule what has been settled
for nearly a quarter of a century.
It is expressly stated in the complaint that the lands held
by the company were sold by the State more than ten years
before this suit was begun. Consequently they are not exempt
as swamp lands.
Judgment affirmed.

