Oct . 1881.-]

JOHNSON V. RAILROAD CO.

JOHNSON v. RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. Reissued letters-patent No. 4870, bearing date April 16, 1872, granted to Asa
Johnson and Thomas S. Sandford -the latter being the assignec of an interest therein -for an alleged new and useful improvement in fastening sheet
metals to roofs, are void, inasmuch as several of the devices essential to the
combination described in the original letters are omitted, and the remaining
parts, for which a separate claim is made, operate in a different way and
for a different purpose.
2. Contrivances substantially the same as that set forth in the second claim
of the reissued letters (infra, p. 544), for fastening metals together, wherein,
by the use of slotted side-plates and an adjusting bolt, allowance is made
for their contraction and expansion caused by changes in temperature,
were in use before the issue of the original letters.

A'PEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of New York.
On May 19, 1857, letters-patent were granted to Asa Johnson, the inventor, and William Higbie and Henry Link, his
assignees, "for an improved mode of fastening sheet metal on
roofs," &c.
The specification declares the invention to be "a new and
useful mode of self-adjusting fastenings for fastening metallic
coverings to buildings, and in any and all other places where
metals require fastening and their contraction and expansion
demand accommodation;" and there are appended to it five
figures.
Fig. 1 is a side elevation of a buiding.
Fig. 2 is an end elevation or section cut through the roof in
the line x x, Fig. 1.
Fig. 3 is an'end elevation of the self-adjusting fastener.
Fig. 4 is a side elevation of the same.
Fig. 5 is a plan view of the bottom-plate.
The specification then proceeds as follows
" in the operation of my invention, after sheeting the roof, if the
boards do not exceed an inch in thickness, I bore a hole at the
point where I wish to insert the stud, about the size as seen in vertical dotted lines in Fig. 2. The holes may be made larger or
smaller to allow for contraction and expansion, so that the studs
can move f'eely in any direction required.

JOHNSON V. RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

"The bottom-plate is then screwed firmly to the boards by the
screws (s) (s) seen in Figs. 2 and 4, and the screw 1 passes through

Fty. 1

(Dj

H

i->

the metallic covering into the stud 2, thus firmly fastening the covering K to the stud, as seen in Fig. 2.
"It
will be further seen that the cord 7 passes through the stud
2, Fig. 4, and then through the bottom-plate, and is fastened together as at g, in said Fig., thus always keeping the stud in an
erect position until attached to the metal.
"1If the covering contract on a line parallel with the connectingpin S, the adjustable connectin'g-rod 2 will move on it towards one
of the flanges 4, when it expands it will move towards the opposite
flange, thus moving towards the point of contraction, and froma the
point of expansion with this metallic covering.
'" The adjustable stud, in addition to its parallel and longitudinal
movement, is capable of a diagonal movement, thus accomniodat-

Oct. 1881.]

JOHNSON v. RAILROAD Co.

ing itself to any direction required by the metal contracting or
expanding.

Piy5

1I contemplate using them as general fasteners when it is necessary to allow for the contraction and expansion of the material
used, not confining myself to buildings only. I may find, in using
my adjustable Tsteners, it necessary to make some of them, those
that are in parallel lines with the flanges, to fit up close to the
sides of the studs, as seen at 1, 1, in Fig. 2, allowing them to move
in but one direction on the pin 3, which slides in the slots in the
flanges 4, 4."
The claim is thus set forth

-

JOHNSON V. RAILROAD Co.

[Sup. Ct.

" In the self-adjusting fastener as described, for the purpose of attaching metallic coverings to buildings and accommodating itself
to the contraction and expansion of the metal, and for fastening
metals in all other places when the contraction and expansion demand accomnnodation, substantially as set forth, or any mechanical
device equivalent thereto."
At the expiration of the original term of the patent, fourteen
years, an extension of seven years was granted to Johnson,
who subsequently assigned a two-third interest in his extended
letters to Thomas S. Sandford. The original letters were surrendered April 16, 1872, and a reissue of that date was
granted.
The specification of the reissue describes the invention generally as " a new and useful mode of self-adjusting fastenings
for fastening metallic coverings to buildings, and for use in
any and all other places where metals require fastening, and
their contraction and expansion require accommodation."
Then follows a reference to and description of the same five
illustrative figures which form part of the specification of the
original patent.
The specification then proceeds as follows: "The principle of my invention consists in connecting the metal
to be fastened with a bolt or pin arranged to slide in slotted bearings in the direction of expansion or contraction, said adjustable
bolt and its bearings being combined with the materials to be fastened.
"I have found my adjustable fastener peculiarly useful in fastening metallic roofs to buildings, and I proceed to describe its construction and use.
"In using my self-adjusting fastener for fastening metallic roofs
to buildings I connect the sliding bolt or pin with the roof by means
of a stud fastened to the same, and I form the side-plates, which
contain the bearings fir the sliding-bolt, in connection with and as
flanges of a bottom-plate, which is secured fast to the under side of
the wooden sheathing of the building.
"In the drawing, 1 indicates the screws for attaching the metallic
roof to the stud, 2 is the stud, 3 is the adjusting bolt or pin, to
which the metallic roof is connected by the stud and screw, said
bolt passing through the stud 2 and through the slots of the side-

Oct. 1881.]

JOHNSON V. R ILROAD CO.

plates or flanges. 4 4 are the side-plates or flanges, provided with
slots, which form the bearings of the adjusting-bolts. 5 is a bottomplate, used as a convenient means of attaching the side-plates to the
wooden sheathing of the building. 6 6 are the slots in the sideplates in which the adjusting-bolt slides. 7 is an india-rubber cord
which may be used in applying the adjustable fastener to buildings.
It is connected with the stud by being passed through an opening
in it. It then passes down on each side of the stud and through
an opening in the bottom-plate, where it is fstened, as indicated at
g in the drawing, and is used for keeping the stud in an erect position until after the stud had been inserted through the sheathing
from below, and until it is attached to the metal roof. Without
some contrivance of this kind it would be difficult in the position
indicated to keep the stud in position while the connection was
being made.
"S S are screws for attaching the bottom-plate, and with it the
side-plates, to the sheathing. G is the sheathing, of the roof greatly
enlaroed in thickness in proportion, to illustrate the details of the
connection of the adjustable fastener to buildings. II is the metallie roofing.
"The method of using the invention in attaching metallic roofing
to buildings is as follows: After sheathing the roof; a hole is bored
in the sheathing, at the point where the adjustable fastener is to be
used, of sufficient size to allow the connecting-stud to move in the
same with the expansion or contraction of the metallic roof. These
holes receive the slotted flanges or side-plates 4 4, and they are indicated in the drawing by the letter a. (See Fig. 2.) They should
be of the shape and size required by the extent, and direction of the
contraction and expansion to be allowed for. The flanges or sideplates are inserted in the holes, and the bottom-plate is then firmly
secured to the boards or sheathing G by the screws S S, as seen in
Fig. 2. Where the sheathing is sufficiently thick, a hole may be
bored into it to receive the fastener from above. The side-plates 4
and adjusting-bolt 3 are thus connected with the building. The
connection with the metallic roof is then effected by holding the
stud in an erect position by means of the rubber cord, and attaching
the stud to the roofing by means of the screw 1. Both the wooden
sheathing and the metallic roof are thus connected to the self-adjusting mechanism, consisting of the slotted side-plates and the bolt
which slides in them.
"It is obvious that if the metal of the roofing contracts or expands in a line with the slots in the side-plates that the bolt will

JOHNSON v. RAILROAD CO.

ESup. Ct.

adjust itself to such contraction or expansion by sliding in the slots
in the proper direction.
"On the other hand, in cases where the line of contraction or expansion may be diagonal, or at right angles to the line of the slots
in the side-plates, the connecting-stud is arranged to slide upon the
adjusting-bolt, as it is shown it may do in Figs. 2 and 3. Where,
however, the movement is only sensible in the direction of the slots,
the side-plates are made to fit up close, as seen at Fig. 2 in the illustrations marked *, where the side-plates or flanges are seen in crosssection, so that the only practical adjustability shall be in the
direction of the slots.
"I contemplate using my invention as a general fastener where
it is necessary to allow for the contraction and expansion of the
material used, not confining myself to buildings only."
The first claim of the reissue is substantially identical with
the one claim of the original patent. The second claim of the
reissue is as follows: -

"I claim, in combination with the adjusting-bolt and slotted sideplates, suitably connected to and combined with the materials to be
fastened together for the purpose of accommodating the expansion
and contraction of such materials with reference to each other,
substantially as specified."
The bill in this case was filed by said Johnson and Sandford
to restrain the Flushing and North Side Railroad Company from
infringing the second claim of the reissued letters-patent, by
using what is commonly known as the fish-plate joint for uniting the ends of railroad rails. It consists of two iron plates of
proper shape and size to fit the "web," which is the upright
portion of the rail between its head and base. The plates are
fastened one on each side of and near the ends of two abutting
rails by means of bolts and nuts, the bolts passing through corresponding holes formed in both the plates and rails. In order
to permit the rails to expand and contract with the changes in
temperature, their ends are not allowed to form a close joint,
and the holes, either in the fish-plates or in the rails, are made
larger than the bolts, and are elongated in the direction of the
length of the rails. By these means the expansion and contraction of the rails is "compensated " without injury to the
joint.

Oct. 1881.]

JOHNSON V. RAILROAD

Co.

The answer denies the alleged infringement, and sets up as
defences the invalidity of the reissued letters, because, as was
alleged, the original were not lawfully surrendered, and the
want of novelty in the invention covered by the second claim
of the reissue.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, holding that the reissued letters were void because they were not for the same
invention as that described in the original, and the complainants appealed.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Benjamin F. Butler and MJr. Thomas Bracken for the
appellants.
Mr. Andrew McCallum and Mr. S. . Law for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The appellee insists that the invention covered by the second
claim of the reissued patent, of which infringement is charged,
is neither described in the specification nor claimed in the
claim of the original patent, and that the reissue is therefore
broader than the original patent, and consequently void.
It takes but slight comparison of the patents to show that
this contention is well founded. The original patent was for a
complicated contrivance, consisting of a number of old devices
combined, and specially adapted to the fastening of metallic
coverings to buildings, and for use in all other places where
metals require fastening and their contraction and expansion
require accommodation. To make the invention of any practical value for the purpose suggested in the specification, and
for use in the " other places " referred to, all the parts of the
device therein described, except, perhaps, the rubber cord,
which is only for temporary use in applying the device, are
absolutely essential. Nowhere in the specification is it indicated or suggested that any part of the device described can be
dispensed with. It is perfectly clear that the stud and bottomplate of the contrivance are absolutely necessary to the only
specific use mentioned in the specification. If these are left
out there is no connection between the two materials to be
fastened together; namely, the metal roof and the wooden
VOL. XV.

35

JOHNSON v. RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

sheathing under it. As the declared purpose of the invention
is the fastening of these two materials together, it is difficult
to see how the parts of the device essential to the fastening
can be discarded, and the invention still remain perfect and
unchanged.
On recurring to the second claim of the reissued patent, we
find that the metal roof to be fastened, the stud, the bottomplate, and the screw which fastens the metal roof to the stud,
are all eliminated from the invention, and there is nothing left
but the adjusting-bolt (3) and the slotted side-plate (4 4). As
thus left, it is impossible to apply in a practical manner the
device to the fastening of sheet-iron to a roof, or the fastening
of any sheet metal to anything whatever.
If the see*ond claim of the reissued patent, as insisted by appellants, covers the fish-plate joint used by the appellee, it
must cover a combination of (1) the two materials to be fastened together; (2) two slotted side-plates on opposite sides of
the materials to be fastened, which serve as clamps to hold such
materials in position ; (3) the adjusting-bolt. The claim is so
interpreted by the expert witness of appellants. Under the
original patent the materials or things to be fastened together
are the metallic covering of the roof and the under surface of
the wooden sheathing on which it is laid. The slotted plates
or flanges are fastened to the under side of the sheathing by
the bottom-plate, which connects the flanges, and they form a
support for the adjusting-bolt; but the slotted flanges do not
embrace or clamp any part of the wooden sheathing or any part
of the metallic covering of the roof, much less do they embrace
or clamp at the same time the sheathing and the metallic covering, which are the things to be fastened together. But in
the reissued patent the slotted plates not only furnish bearings
for the bolt, but perform a new and essential function, of
furnishing a strong lateral support to the materials to be fastened together by clamping the same between them.
We find, therefore, that in the reissued patent several of
the devices essential to the combination described in the original patent are left out and a separate claim made for the parts
which remain, and to these parts a new and essential function is
given, which they could not perform under the original patent.

Oct. 1881.]

JOHNSON V. RAILROAD CO.

It is, therefore, perfectly clear that the second claim of the
reissued patent was not covered by the original patent. It
describes another device operating in a different way and for
a different purpose.
Under the circumstances of this case there can, in our opinion, be but one conclusion, and that is, that the second claim
of the reissued patent is void.
There was no error in the original patent caused by inadvertence, accident, or mistake, which could have escaped the
notice of the patentee and his associates for fifteen years. It
is not open to dispute that the fish-plate joint, precisely such
as the appellants claim is covered by their reissued patent, was
in general use during nearly the entire life of the original
patent. Why did not the patentee earlier discover that all
this use of the fish-plate joint was really an infringement on
his patent and apply for a reissue and assert his rights ? He
bas rested supinely until the use of the fish-plate joint has
become universal, and then, after a lapse of fifteen years, has
attempted by a reissue to extend his patent to cover it. We
think it is perfectly clear that the original patent could not be
fairly construed to embrace the device used by the appellee,
which appellants insist is covered by their reissue. If the reissued patent covers it, it is broader than the original, and is,
therefore, void. Giant Powder Co. v. Cal. Viyorit Powder
Co., 6 Sawyer, 508; Powder Company v. Powder Works, 98
U. S. 126; Ball v. Lanyles, 102 id. 128; Janes v. Campbell,
104 id. 356.
Even if the patentee had the right to a reissue if applied for
in seasonable time, he has lost it by his laches and unreasonable delay. Miller v. Brass Company, id. 350.
The defence of want of novelty set up in the answer is, in
our opinion, also sustained by the evidence. The testimony
shows that the device of employing slotted plates and bolts to
allow of expansion and contraction caused by changes in temperature was applied in the manufacture of locomotives long
before the year 1843, the earliest date at which Johnson, the
original patentee, claims to have conceived his invention. By
this contrivance the expansion and contraction of the boiler of
the locomotive upon its frame, caused by alternate beating and

JOHNSON

V. RAILROAD

Co.

[Sup. Ct.

cooling, were accommodated. This device was in common use
before the year 1843, and it much more nearly resembles the
fish-plate joint used for uniting the iron rails of a railroad
than it does the contrivance described in the original patent
of Johnson.
Many other instances of the application of the principle of
this device prior to the date of .Johnson's original patent are
shown by the evidence. Among these were the use by the
Newcastle and Frenchtown Railroad Company, in 1837, of iron
rails embodying substantially the present fish-plate joint, and
the use of the same device by the Oswego and Syracuse Railroad
Company in 1848. In the first of these instances but one plate
was used for each joint, and there was an oblong hole in one
end only of every rail. In the second instance two plates were
used to every joint, and the holes in both ends of the plates
were oblong.
There are other instances of the use of this device for joining iron rails, which the record discloses. The evidence leaves
no doubt upon our minds that the device now used by the
appellee and which is alleged to be an infringement on appellants' patent, was well known and publicly used for several
years before the application of Johnson for his original patent
in 1857.
An attempt is made to elude the force of the testimony on
the question of novelty by introducing evidence to show that
Johnson, as early as the year 1843, made a small model of a
device similar, as is claimed, to the present fish-plate joint, and
also some drawings upon the fly-leaf of a book, of the same
contrivance, and these it is claimed show that Johnson was the
first inventor of the fish-plate joint, and that his patent, afterwards obtained in 1857, cut off the claims of intermediate
inventors, if any such there were.
We have examined the model referred to, and cannot see
that it contains any suggestion of the fish-plate joint. It is
simply an oblong strip of sheet-iron, having its sides bent over
so as to form flanges, and with four oblong holes in each flange
corresponding with similar holes in the other, and a bolt to
pass through the corresponding holes in the flanges. The
model is a single piece of sheet-iron, supposed to represent an.

Oct. 1881.]

JOHNSON V. RAILROAD CO.

iron rail. There is no suggestion that it is to be connected
with any other rail, and there are no plates or bars with which
to make the connection. If the model suggests anything, it is
simply the use of a bolt in slotted holes, which, as the testimony in this case shows, was a device in common use in many
ways long before the year 1843.
It is alleged that the model spoken of was made by Johnson
when he was about twenty years of age. It does not appear
that at this time he had ever seen an iron rail such as those to
which a fish-plate joint can be applied, or that he had ever
seen a railroad. According to his testimony the model when
finished was placed by him upon the plate under the eaves of
a woodhouse, where it remained unseen by any one for thirtythree years, until the spring of 1876, when he returned to the
place where he had lived in 1843, and got the model for the
purposes of this suit.
It is sufficient to say that the proof fails to show that he, in
1843, or at any time before the fish-plate joint for uniting iron
rails came into use, was the inventor of that device, or that he
ever invented it at all. It was not described in his original
patent, and he never set up any claim to it until the year 1872,
when its use had become universal wherever railroads were
constructed.
On both grounds, therefore, the invalidity of the reissued
patent and want of novelty in the invention which appellants
contend was covered by the original patent, we are of opinion that the Circuit Court was right in dismissing the bill.
.Decree affirmed.

