REPORTS OF THE DECISIONS
OF TIE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERM, 1881.

WADE v. WALNUT.
The court adheres to the decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois declaring
that the provision in the existing Constitution of that State entitled " Municipal subscriptions to railroads or private corporations" took effect July 2,
1870.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This was an action brought by Wade against the town of
Walnut, upon coupons cut from bonds purporting to be issued
by the defendant, under the style of Township of Walnut, in
the County of Bureau and State of Illinois. The declaration
avers that each of the bonds contains, among other recitals,
the following: " This bond is issued under and by virtue
of the charter of said Illinois Grand Trunk Railway Company, and amendments thereto, and other laws of the State
of Illinois, and in accordance with the vote of the electors
of said township, at the special election held August 6th,
1870, in accordance with said charter and amendments and
laws."
The defendant demurred to the declaration, and judgment
was rendered in its favor. It is unnecessary to state the remaining facts, as the only question upon which this court
passed was as to whether at the foregoing date there was in
VOL. XV.

1

WADE V. WALNUT.

[Sup. Ct.

force an article of the Constitution of Illinois which is as
follows: "No county, city, town, township, or other municipality shall
ever become subscriber to the capital stock of any railroad or private corporation, or make donation to, or loan its credit in aid of
such corporation : Provided, however, that the adoption of this
article slall not be construed as affecting the right of any such
municipality to make such subscriptions where the same have been
authorized, under existing laws, by a vote of the people of such
municipalities prior to such adoption."
Wade sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Thomas S. McClelland and Mr. George A. Sanders for
the plaintiff in error.
Jlir. William (I. Goudy and Mr. Allan C. Story for the defendant in error.
Mn. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The only question we have to decide in this case is, whether
the section of the Illinois Constitution adopted in 1870, relat-

ing to

"

municipal subscriptions to railroads or private corpora-

tions," was in force on the 6th of August, 1870. This question
came before the Supreme Court of the State at the January
Term, 1872, only eighteen months after the Constitution was
adopted, in Schall v. Bowman (62 111. 321), and it was then
decided that this section took effect on the 2d of July, the day
the people voted for its adoption. The opinion in the case
was written by Mr. Justice Breese, two justices dissenting.
At the September Term in the same year the same questions
came again before the court in Richards v. Donagho (66 id. 73),
and the opinion was then delivered by Mr. Justice Thornton,
in the following words: "The only question presented by this
record was, after mature deliberation, settled by the opinion
in Schall v. Bowman. . . . Notwithstanding the able and plansible argument made in this case, the majority of the court
Afteradhere to the opinion in the case referred to above."
wards, at the January Term, 1878, in Wright v. Bishop (88
id. 302), the court said: "Appellants make a very able and

Oct. 1881.]

SwoPu

v. LEFFINGWI.LL.

interesting argument against the rulings in those cases; but
we are not convinced they should be overruled."
This court has never until now been called on to decide the
question, but in numerous cases it has assumed that the section
took effect on the day fixed by the Supreme Court of the State.
Town of Coneord v. Portsmouth Savings Bank, 92 U. S. 625;
County of Moultrie v. Roeckingiham Ten-cent Savings Bank, id.
631; County of Randolph v. Post, 93 id. 502; Fairfield v.
County q/ Gallatin, 100 id. 47; Walnut v. Wade, 103 id. 683;
Louisville v. Savings Bank, 104 id. 469. Under these circumstances we are not inclined to consider the question an open
one here while the Supreme Court of the State adheres to its
present rulings.
Judgment affirmed.

SWOPE v. LEFFINGWELL.
This court has jurisdiction to re-examine the judgment of a State court involving the right of a national bank to purchase a promissory note secured by a
deed of trust upon real estate. A motion to affirm will, however, be granted
where that is the only Federal question in the case and the decision below is
in recognition of the right.

EnRor to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri.
This was a suit brought in the Circuit Court of St. Louis
County, Missouri, against Leffingwell and the other defendants,
to restrain and enjoin the sale of certain real estate in the city
of St. Louis, under a deed of trust executed to secure the payment of a promissory note whereof the Atlas National Bank of
Boston becamc the purchaser. The case was ultimately determined by the Supreme Court of the State reversing the decrees
of the subordinate courts, ad directing that the bill be dismissed. Swope sued out this writ of error.
A motion was made to dismiss the writ for want of jurisdiction, upon the ground that there was no Federal question
involved; to which was united a motion to affirm.
Mr. Philip Phillips in support of the motions.
Mr. . B. Sherzer, contra.

