Oct. 1881.]

CHATFIELD

V. BOYLE.

CHATFIELD V. BOYLE.
1. A person having made an assignment in favor of his creditors, one of them in
behalf of himself and such others as would unite with him, filed his bill to
set aside as fraudulent a previous conveyance in favor of A., and to exclude
from the benefit of the assignment A., who, lie alleged, was not a creditor.
Several creditors united as complainants. The bill was dismissed, and they
appealed. Held, that the matter in dispute is not the entire fund, but their
distributive shares thereof, and the amount being less than $5,000, this
court has no jurisdiction.
2. Terry v. Hatclh (93 U. S. 44) cited and approved.

MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John D. McPherson and Mir. Jeremiah W. Clapp in support of the motion.
Mr. William M. Ramsey, contra.

MA1.CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Boyle & Co., a mercantile firm doing business at Memphis,
Tenn., being insolvent, made, on the 17th of November, 1876,
a general assignment to J. A. Omberg for the benefit of all their
creditors. A deed of trust, in the nature of a mortgage, had
been previously executed, conveying some of the property of
the firm as security for a debt said to be owing to Jefferson
Davis. At the time of this assignment, the total indebtedness
of the firm to creditors other than Davis and another person
who has since been paid out of securities he held at the time,
was .......
.................
$17,233.63
The debt claimed to be due Davis was .
...
25,000.00
Making a total of ...
........
.$42,233.63
Chatfield and Woods, creditors of the firm to the amount of
$3,440.37, filed a bill in equity in one of the State courts of
Tennessee, on the 13th of January, 1877, against Boyle, Davis,
and others, the object of which was to set aside the deed of
trust in favor of Davis, and also to prevent him from participating in the benefits of the general assignment, on the ground

[Sup. Ct.

CHATP'IELD v. BOYLE.

that he was not in reality a creditor of the firm, but one of
the partners. This suit was brought, as alleged, in aid of the
assignment and in behalf of all the creditors of the firm who
might be entitled to come and join therein. Omberg, the
assignee, was also joined as a complainant. As to him, the
allegations in the bill are as follows: "Complainant J. A.
Omberg, as the assignee in said deed of assignment, comes at
the request of the creditors as aforesaid, and claims the benefit
of all the matters and circumstances in this bill set up in behalf
of all the creditors of Boyle & Co., and especially in behalf of
all those creditors who may be hereafter made parties hereto,
and may by proper averments and proof make good their claim,
to be paid out of the proceeds of the property hereby proceeded
against, and asks for them, and each of them, all the relief,
under and by virtue and in aid of said assignment, to which
they or either or each of them may as creditors be entitled as
against defendant Davis or otlhhr defendants."
During the pendency of the suit in the State court the
property held under the trust for the benefit of Davis was
sold with the consent of all parties, and realized $2,951.10,
which is now in court subject to any decree that may be
finally rendered. The assignee has also disposed of all the remaining property embraced in the assignment, and in the distribution that has been made of the proceeds, $3,403.81 was set
apart for Davis, if he shall be adjudged to be a creditor of the
firm and not a partner. These two sums, amounting in the
aggregate to $6,354.91, constitute the entire fund about which
the dispute in the case arises.
On the 16th of March, 1877, the Powers Paper Company,
Edwin Hoole, and L. Snider & Sons, also creditors of the
firm, were, on their own petition, admitted as parties complainant. Their claims were respectively as follows: Powers Paper Company ............
Edward Hoole ....
............
L. Snider & Sons ....
.........

..
.
.

$2,689.60
1,232.61
1,103.76

On the 23d of March, 1877, the following order was entered
in the suit: "In this cause it appearing to the court by a statement of J. A. Omberg that all the creditors who have demanded

Oct. 1881.]

CHATFIELD V. BOYLE.

of James A. Omberg, the assignee, to join in this litigation,
have come in and had themselves made parties therein, it is,
therefore, on motion, ordered that this bill be dismissed, so far
as said Omberg is concerned, and he go hence without day."
On the next day, March 24, S. A. Tower & Co. and 11. B.
Graham & Brothers were, on their petition, made parties.
Their claims are as follows: S. A. Tower & Co ......
H. B. Graham & Brothers ..

..........
........

.

$887.68
318.41

No other parties have ever appeared to claim the benefit of
the suit. The aggregate of all the several claims represented
by all the complainants is $9,672.43.
On the 4th of April, 1877, after Omberg had been dismissed
from the case, the remaining complainants united in a petition
for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Tennessee, which was afterwards effected. Answers were filed and testimony taken in the
Circuit Court. Upon final hearing the bill was dismissed.
From the decree to that effect all the complainants united in
this appeal. The appellees now move to dismiss because the
matter in dispute does riot exceed the sum of e5,000. In support of this motion two grounds are relied on. They are: 1. That the claims of the several complainants are separate
and distinct, and cannot be united for the purpose of making
up the amount necessary to give us jurisdiction. The effort in
this connection is to bring the case within the operation of
the principle under which motions to dismiss were granted in
Seaver v. Bigelows, 5 Wall. 208; Rich v. Lambert, 12 How.
347; Oliver v. Alexander, 6 Pet. 143; Stratton v. Jarvis,
8 id. 4; and Paving Company v. iulford, 100 U. S.147.
2. That the matter in dispute is not the whole amount of
the fund in court which is claimed by Davis, but only so much
as would be distributable to the complainants under the assignment, if Davis is adjudged to be a partner and not a creditor.
For this Terry v. Hatch (93 U. S.44) is relied on.
Without considering the first of these propositions, we think
it clear the case comes within the last. These appellants on
this appeal represent no one but themselves. Their rights

CHATFIELD v. BOYLE.

[Sup. Ct.

here are just what Omberg asked for himself, that is to say,
such as belong to creditors who in this suit make good their
claim to be paid under the assignment out of the fund proceeded against. The complainants do not necessarily represent
all the creditors entitled to the benefits of the assignment,
neither have they assumed anything of the kind. They ask
only for such relief as belongs to those who actually come
in according to their invitation. They are in no situation to
appropriate to themselves the whole of the fund. The other
creditors may certainly abandon their interest and permit it
to go to Davis if they choose. The complainants cannot
compel them to take it whether they want it or not. By
not coming into the suit they, in effect, have elected not to
contend with Davis for their share, and to treat him as a
creditor rather than a partner. When Omberg went out of
the suit all the creditors had come in who wanted him to
proceed. Under these circumstances, if the bill had been
sustained, no opportunity need have been given other creditors
to come in. The court might very properly have said that,
as they had stayed out until all risks of liability for costs and
expenses were gone, they should not then be admitted. Such
being the case, a decree would have been entered in favor of
the complainants for their distributive shares of the fund, and
no more. The rest would have remained for Davis, the same
as though no suit had been begun. The fund is $6,354.91, and
the debts entitled to the benefit of the assignment, $17,233.63, of
which the complainants represent only $9,672.43. Under this
state of facts the whole of the distributive shares of the complainants, if they are successful, will be less than five thousand
dollars, not enough to give us jurisdiction. Upon an appeal
we will not consider whether others may come in if we reverse
the decree. We look only to the. parties who are actually
before us. The case is, therefore, within the rule stated in
Terry v. Hatch (supra), and the motion to dismiss is
Granted.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS, having been of counsel in the
court below, took no part in the decision of this motion.

