Oct. 1881.]

STEVENSON

v. TEXAS RAILWAY Co.

reversing the judgment of the Supreme Court in an action of
ejeetment, and rendet-iug judgment for the plaintiff, and in
the same book, p. 725, is another judgment of reversal in the
case of hlopper v. itOpj)er, coupled with a judgment for the
demandant in an action of dower, with a direction to the Supreme Court to award a writ of inquiry to assess the damages,
and to issue execution therefor.
We think that the final judgment in these cases was rendered on the eighteenth day of July, 1881, being the judgment
rendered by the Court of Errors and Appeals ; and that as
the writs of error were not issued and served until the 28th of
October, more than sixty days thereafter, they were too late
to operate as a supersedeas. The rules to show cause must
therefore be
Discharged.

STEVENSON v.

TEXAS

RAILWAY

COMPANY.

1. Judgment creditors who cause an execution to be levied upon lands of tie
defendant in Texas acquire a lien superior to that of his unrecorded mortgage, whereof, at the date of the levy, they had no notice.
2. A purchaser at the sale under that execution is entitled to all the rights of
the creditors, and takes the lands freed from the mortgage, although it be
recorded before such sale.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. William S. Ilerndon and Hr. Anthony Q. Keasbey for
the appellant.
r. Jnes Lowndes for the
.1r, Walter D. Davidqe -and
a.ppellee.
MR. JUSTICE MA'rTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

In the view which we have taken of this case, it becomes
necessary to decide but a single question. The facts necessary
to its determination may be slimmed up as follows: The Texas and Pacific Railway Company is a corporation

STEVENSON

v. TEXAS RAILWAY

Co.

[Sup. Ct.

created by acts of Congress, for the purpose of constructing,
maintaining, and operating a line of railway, from a point at or
near Marshall in Harrison County, Texas, by way of El Paso,
to the Pacific Ocean. By the terms of its charter, it was authorized to purchase the stock, land grants,, franchises, and
appurtenances of, and, on such terms as might be agreed on,
consolidate with, any railroad companies theretofore chartered
by congressional, State, or territorial authority, on the route
prescribed, but not with any competing company; and thereupon all such interests and rights should vest in the Texas and
Pacific Railway Company, the latter assuming any indebtedness of such companies, as they might agree, and the consolidation and purchase not impairing any lien which might exist
thereon.
The Southern Pacific Railroad Company was a corporation
of the State of Texas, and, being thereunto duly authorized,
became consolidated with tile Texas and Pacific Railway Cornpany, on March 21, 1872, the latter becoming thereby the purchaser, in consideration of $3,000,000 paid to the former, of all
its property, rights, and franchises.

The Southern Pacific Railroad Company, which made this
sale to, and became consolidated with, the Texas and Pacific
Railway Company, was the successor in law of the Texas
Western Railroad Company, in the following manner: The
original company was chartered in 1852 to construct a railroad
from a suitable point on the eastern boundary of the State to
El Paso on the Rio Grande. In 1856, its name was changed
by the legislature of Texas to that of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company. Prior to September, 1859, this company had
completed twenty-five miles of road west from Marshall, and
had earned, it is claimed, about 256,000 acres of land, granted
to it by the State. Having become insolvent, it was sold
under execution upon a judgment at law, on Sept. 6, 1859, to
It. V. Richardson, under the provisions of the fifth section of
the act of Feb. 7, 1853, Pasehal's Digest, art. 4912, which is as
follows " The road-bed, track, franchise, and chartered rights and privileges of any railroad compamy in this State, shall be sulbject to the
payment of the debts and legal liabilities of said company, and may

Oct. 1881.]

STEVENSOX v. TEXAS RAILWAY Co.

705

be sold in satisfaction of the same; but the said road-bed, track,
franchise, and chartered powers and privileges shall be deemed an
entire thing, and must be sold as such ; and in ease of the sale of
the same, whether by virtue of an execution, order of sale, deed of
trust, or any other power, the purchaser or pIichasers at such sale,
and their associates, shall be entitled to have and exercise all the
powers, privileges, and franchises granted to said company by its
charter, or by virtue of the general laws of the State; and the said
purchaser or purchasers, and their associates, shall be deemed "ied
taken to be the true owners of said charter and corporators under
the same, and vested with all the powers, rights, privileges, and
benefits thereof; in the same manner and to the sme extent as if
they were the original corporators of said company ;and shall have
power to construct, complete, equip, anl work the road, upon the
same terms and under the samre conditions aind restrictions as are

imposed by their charter and the general laws of this State."
As authorized by this law, Richardson and his associates
reorganized the Southern Pacific Railroad Company. by the
creation of a new capital stock, - the largest part of which
was subscribed and owned by Richardson himself and Jeptha
Fowlkes, - and the election of a board of directors and. officers, as provided by their by-laws, on Oct. 3, 1859.
On Aug. 25, 1860, the Southern Pacific Railroad Company,
as thus reorganized, executed to R. V. Richardson and Vernon K. Stevenson, as trustees, two mortgages, which were
acknowledged Sept. 10, and proved in New York before a
Texas commissioner Sept. 12, 1860, and recorded in Harrison
County, Texas, March 1, 1861. One of them was to secure a
proposed issue of bonds, to the amount of $25,000,000, for purposes of construction and other necessary expenses, payable
Jan. 1, 1883, with interest at the rate of seven per cent per
annum, and it embraced all the property of the company, ineluding its land grant from the State. The other covers one
million acres of the land grant, to be selected by the company
for sale, to meet the accruing interest on the same bonds.
The complainants claim to be holders for value of about two
hundred of the bonds secured by these mortgages, out of about
three hundred and fifty, which was the whole number issued.
Their bills were filed for the foreclosure of the mortgages, and
VOL. XV.

45

STEVENSON

v. TEXAS RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

the sale of the mortgaged property, for the payment of the
amount due on account of the bonds and accrued interest.
Against the lien of these mortgages the appellee, the Texas
and Pacific Railway Company, claims a paramount title. This
title rests, primarily, upon a judicial sale of the same property
and rights, then vested in the Southern Pacific Railroad Con-,
pany, as it existed under the Richardson reorganization. The
sale was made by the sheriff of Harrison County, Texas, on
Sept. 3, 1861, to H. S. Fulkerson, of the whole road and franchises of the company, as an entirety, under the provisions of
the foregoing article 4912, upon executions levied under four
judgments at law, as follows: 1. Judgment in favor of J. W. Saunders, April 6, 1859, for
$300.09 and costs, $74, in all $374.09, upon which was credited
before sale $277, leaving due a balance of $97.09. Execution
was levied under this judgment Aug. 9, 1860.
2. Judgment in favor of Henry Wickland, Sept. 26, 1860,
for $3,500 and costs. Execution issued and levied July 11,
1861.
3. Judgment in favor of Amelia Swanson, Oct. 27, 1860, for
$2,480.50 and costs. Execution issued Nov. 22, 1860, levied
Jan. 3, 1861.
4. Judgment in favor of J. B. Williamson, Oct. 23, 1q60,
for $1,000 and costs. Execution issued Nov. 23, 1860, levied
Jan. 3, 1861.
The purchase-money at the sheriff's sale to Fulkerson was
$7,500, which was just enough to satisfy the executions.
It will be observed that of these judgments the first alone
was recovered prior to the date of the execution and delivery of the mortgages, but all of them were recovered, and
the executions issued upon the first, third, and fourth were
levied before March 1, 1861, the date of the record of the
mortgages.
There is neither judgment, claim, nor proof that at the time
of the levy of these executions the plaintiffs had any notice of
the existence of the then unrecorded mortgages to Richardson
and Stevenson; and it is conclusively established as the law of
Texas that the purchaser at such sale acquires a title superior
to that of such mortgagees.

Oct. 1881.]

STEVENSON V. TEXAS RAILWAY CO.

Article 4988, Paschal's Digest, reads as follows: " All bargains, sales, and other conveyances whatever, of any lands,
tenements, and hereditainents, whether they may be made for
passing any estate of freehold or inheritance, or for a term of
years; and deeds of settlement upon marriage, whether land,
slaves, money, or other personal thing, shall be settled or covenanted to be lef~t or paid, at the death of the party or otherwise; and all deeds of trust and mortgages whatsoever, which
shall hereafter be made and executed, shall be void as to all
creditors and subsequent purchasers for valuable consideration
without notice, unless they shall be acknowledged or proved
and lodged with the clerk, to be recorded according to the directions of this act, but the same, as between the parties and
their heirs, and as to all subsequent purchasers, with notice
thereof or without valuable consideration, shall nevertheless be
valid and binding."
And art. 4994, Paschal's Digest, provides that "Every conveyance, covenant, agreement, deed, deed of trust, or mortgage
in this act mentioned, which shall be acknowledged, proved,
or certified according to law, and delivered to the clerk of
the proper court to be recorded, shall take effect and be valid,
as to all subsequent purchasers, from the time when such instrument shall be so acknowledged, proved, or certified, and
delivered to such clerk to be recorded, and from that time
only."
These statutory provisions were construed by the Supreme
Court of Texas in the case of Grace v. Wade, 45 Tex. 522.
In that case the only question was "whether a vendee of land,
who claims title by an unrecorded deed or bond for title, or the
purchaser, with notice of such deed or bond, at execution sale
on a judgment against the vendor, where the creditor has no
notice of the title or claim of the vendee, at the date of the
levy of the execution, has the better title." The court affirmed
the two propositions, that the lien acquired by a creditor with
out notice by the judgment and levy of execution is superior to
the unrecorded deed of the vendee, and that a purchaser under
the execution, with notice, is entitled to all the rights of the
creditor. The court said: "Now, if the unrecorded instrument cannot take effect, but is void as to creditors, it is absurd

STEVENSON

v. TEXAS RAILWAY

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

to say that the creditor's lien does not bind the land to which
it applies, or that it cannot be enforced by the sale of the
land so bound by it for the payment of the debt, just as if
no such instrument existed. And it would be equally as
absurd to say that the right acquired by the creditor by his
lien, not merely to purchase himself, but to have the land sold
in open market, when once secured, can be taken away by the
subsequent record of such instrument, or that the party holding
such lien can, by subsequent notice, be precluded from the full
benefit of his lien for the satisfaction and discharge of his
demand, except by becoming himself the purchaser."
The case of Price v. Cole (35 Tex. 461), to the contrary, is
directly overruled, the court saying: " We conclude by sayijg,
that while the judgment in Price v. Cole is not warranted by
the previous decisions in our own courts or elsewhere, and
must therefore be overruled, we adhere to and sustain the doctrine to be deduced from the case of Ayres v. Duprey (27
Texas, 593), that one who purchases at sheriff's sale may claim
protection under the statute as a purchaser, even when the
judgment creditor himself is not, as creditor, within its protection, and vice versa. While le cannot bring himself within
its provisions in the character of a purchaser, le or others subrogated to his rights may be entitled to its protection as
creditor."
This decision has been followed and approved in Grimes v.
Hobson, 46 Tex. 416; Catlin v. Bennatt, 47 id. 165; and Mainwarring v. Templenan, 51 id. 205 ; and we adopt it as the law
of Texas applicable to anid governing the present case.
It follows that the legal title of the Texas and Pacific Railway Company, derived through its purchase from and consolidation with the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, which
duly succeeded to the title of Fulkerson, is superior to that of
the mortgages under and through which the appellants claim
as holders of the bonds'. It is urged, however, on behalf of the
appellants, that the circumstances of the execution sale to
Falkerson were such as to fasten upon him a constructive trust
in their favor as creditors of the company; but, in our opinion,
if that were conceded, there is no ground apparent on the
record upon which that equity could be successfully asserted

Oct. 1881.]

MARSlI V. MCPHERSON.

709

against the Texas and Pacific Railway Company, a purchaser
for valuable consideration, having notice, it may be, of the
existence of the mortgages to Richardson and Stevenson, but
without notice of any facts which in equity would subordinate
to them the rights acquired by the sheriff's sale to Fulkerson.
For these reasons the decree of the Circuit Court is
Affirmned.

MARSH V. MCPHERSON.
1. The recital in the contract (irfa, p. 711), that the vendors "hereby deliver
said machines at the places named in the list" to the vendee, passes to hiiii
the title and right of possession, but does not prove a delivery of actual
possession.
2. If the machines were not delivered at the stipulated time and places, or were
not then in a proper condition, proof that they were subsequently delivered,
or that the vendee, after accepting them, permitted the vendors to make the
requisite repairs and additions thereto, is admissible to reduce his damages
for a breach of the contract.
3. In case of a total failure by the vendors to perform the contract, the vendee is
entitled to recover the amount wherewith lie, ait the time of the breach,
could have purchased machines of equal value; if those delivered were
defective, the measure of his damages is the actual cost of supplying the

deficiency.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
ERROt
District of Nebraska.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Jefferson -f. Broady for the plaintiffs in error.
M1b' John L. Webster for the defendant in error.

MR. JusTIcE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought Jan. 15, 1878, by John McPherson,
against James S. Marsh and Elisha C. Marsh, to recover
damages for the breach of a contract under seal for the sale
of certain real and personal property. On Oct. 16, 1877, a
written agreement was entered into, by which he, in consideration of their covenants, agreed to sell and convey to them certain described real estate in Nebraska, and, in addition thereto,

one-half the stock of goods in a store belonging to him, on a

