622

GUARANTY

Co. v. BOARD OF

LIQUIDATION.

[Sup. Ct.

the court had had jurisdiction to hear the defence, it was not
barred in the only court which had jurisdiction to establish the
defence.
In the present case, the money having been paid by the
officer, he was liable to n action by the government to
recover it.

It cannot be permitted that, tb initiative in regard to a
judicial determination of his right remaining solely with him,
he can claim to be free from the law of limitation governing
actions in that court as long as he chooses. Nor can be, without regard to the Statute of Limitations, proceed to obtain a
judgment which is in effect for the repayment of money had
and received to his use by the government.
We think the action in this case is barred by the Statute of
Limitations.
Judgment reversed.

GUARANTY

COMPANY

v.

BOARD OF LrQUIDATION.

The State of Louisiana provided for funding her bonds at reduced rates and on
certain terms. A subsequent statute prohibits the funding of all questionable obligations, among which are specially designated those issued in aid of
the construction of a certain canal, until, by a final decree of the Supreme
Court, "they have been declared legal and valid obligations against the State
of Louisiana, and that the same were issued in strict conformity to law, and
not in violation of the Constitution of this State, or of the United States,
and for a valid consideration." A., a holder of the canal bonds, filed his
bill praying for such a decree. The court decided that the statute (lid not
allow them to be funded, they not being valid obligations in the hands of
the first taker, and that the latter occupied as good a position as a botna fide
holder. Held, that this not being an action to recover the contents of the
bonds, and A. having the same right to enforce payment as he ever possessed, the statute as thus construed does not impair the obligation of any
contract.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. William Wirt Howe and Mr. William Allen Butler for
the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Gustave A. Breaux and Mrh. James Lingan for the
defendant in error.

Oct. 1881.]

GUARANTY CO. c. BOARD Oi, LIQUIDATION.

623

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE deliverhd the opinion of the
court.
The Federal question which this case involves rests on the
following facts On the 8th of March, 1869, the General Assembly of the
State of Louisiana, passed act No. 116, of 1869, to authorize
an issue of negotiable State bonds to aid in the construction of
the Mississippi and Mexican Gulf Ship Canal. Special provision was made in the act for taxation to meet any liability
that might be incurred in this way. Bonds to the amount of
$480,000 were put out, purporting on their face to have been
issued under the authority thus granted, and the New York
Guaranty and Indemnity Company, for all that appears to
the contrary, became the bonca fide holder of $250,000 of this
amount.
On the 24th of January, 1874, act No. 3, of 1874, was
passed, to provide for funding the obligations of the State by an
issue, if necessary, of $15,000,000 of " consolidated bonds of
the State of Louisiana." To accomplish this a " board of liquidation " was created, with power to execute the new bonds
and exchange them for old at the rate of sixty cents of the new
for one dollar of the old. If the board rejected any bond
offered for exchange, the holder could apply by petition to
some proper court for relief, and if on that petition final judgment should be rendered in his favor against the board, he
would be entitled, on giving up his old bond, to get one of the
new on the terms proposed.
On the 14th of March, in the same year, 1874, act No. 55,
of 1874, was passed, which purported to prohibit all State officers from levying or collecting any tax to pay the principal or
interest falling dlue after Jan. 1, 1874, of any of the State debt,
unless such levy and collection were specially authorized by
some law of the State subsequently adopted, and also prohibiting the setting apart of any funds in the treasury for any such
payment. The same law purported to take away from the
courts of the State all power or jurisdiction to arrest or impede
its operation by mandanats, injunction, or otherwise.
On the 17th of March, 1875, act No. 11, of 1875, was passed,
to prohibit the board of liquidation from funding, under act

624

GUARANTY Co. v. BOARD OF LIQUID ATION.

[Sup. Ct.

No. 3, of 1874, questionable and doubtful obligations of the
State, " until said bonds . . . shall first, by final decree of the
Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, have been declared
legal and valid obligations against the State of Louisiana, and
that the same were issued in strict conformity to law, and not
in violation of the Constitution of this State or of the United
States, and for a valid consideration." In this act the bonds
issued in aid of the Mississippi and Mexican Gulf Ship Canal
Company were specially designated as questioned and of doubtful validity.
After this act was passed, the New York Guaranty and
Indemnity Company, being desirous of funding its bonds under
the provisions of act No. 3, filed its petition in the Fifth District Court of the Parish of Orleans, praying that the bonds
"be decreed to have been issued in strict conformity to law,
and not in violation of the Constitution of this State or of the
United States, and that they be declared legal and valid obligations against the State of Louisiana, and issued for a valid
consideration." No other judgment was asked than such an
one as was necessary under act No. 11, of 1875, to secure the
benefit of act No. 3, of 1874, -the funding act. This petition
got in due course of procedure to the Supreme Court of the
State, and it was there decided that the suit thus begun was
not one for the recovery of the money due on the bonds, but
was rather in the nature of an inquisition to determine whether
the bonds in question were of the class which the State had
determined to include in its funding scheme. For this reason
the court held that for the purposes of such an inquiry the
petitioner, as a bona fide holder, occupied no better position
than the first taker. Because of this ruling the present writ
of error has been brought by the company.
This statement of the case is sufficient, as we think, to show
that the question below was not whether, in an action against
the State, properly authorized, to recover the amount due npon
the bond, act No. 11 permitted the State to prove, as against a
bona fide holder, that the bond was invalid, but whether the
bonafide holder of an invalid bond was entitled to the benefit
of the scheme of compromise which the State had offered to the
holders of its securities that were valid in the hands of the first

Oct. 1881.]

GUARANTY Co. V. BOARD

OF LIQUIDATION.

625

taker. Such being the case, no obligation of the original contract has been impaired. Every legal right which the original
taker acquired when the bond was put out still remains. The
Guaranty Company may enforce all such rights now in any
appropriate manner. All the court below has said is, that as
between the State and the first taker the bonds were not valid
obligations, and that, consequently, they are not entitled to
the privileges of the funding laws. The obligation of the
State to pay the bonds in money to the bona fide holders in
accordance with the original promise still remains. The judgment, which has been rendered, and which we are now reviewing, is no bar to any proper proceeding for that purpose. The
suit which was authorized, and the suit which was actually
begun, only related to the right of tle holder to come into
the compromise which the State offered to certain classes of
its creditors. The judgment is that the bonds do not belong
to any of the designated classes. The question here is, not
whether, if that inquiry were open to us, we should be of the
same opinion, but whether the obligation the State is under to
the company has been impaired by act 11, of 1875, as thus
construed. We think the State had the right to say, when it
proposed a scheme for the compromise of its debts, what creditors should be included. That, in our opinion, is all that has
been done.
It follows that the Federal question was decided right below,
and the judgment is consequently
Affirmed.
MR. JusTici BLATCHFOIRD did not sit in this

any part in deciding it.

VOL. XV.

case, nor take

