CLAR1K

v.

FPLEDEMICKS.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We have jurisdiction of this case. The motion to dismiss
is, therefore, denied; but as the only Federal question presented on the merits was decided by the court below in accordance with our rulings in National Bank v. Matthezws (98 U. S.
621) and National Ban/c v. Whitney (103 id. 99), the motion to
affirm is
Granted.

CLARK v.

FREDERICKS.

1. A judgment will not be reversed because the court below erred in directing
the order in which the evidence was introduced, unless it clearly appears
that the complaining party was thereby injured.
2. An objection to matters which weva not brought to the atteption of the
court below will not be considered here.
3. The finding below covering all the issues is conclusive, and where a request
for special findings was refused, this court will assumne that they were not
established by the evidence.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana.
Davis, having obtained a judgment against Wellington A.
Fredericks, sued out a writ of attachment, by way of execution, which Clark, the sheriff of Gallatin County, Montana
Territory, levied upon some personal chattels alleged to belong to the judgment debtor, but which his wife claimed were
her separate property. This suit was, therefore, brought in
the District Court of that county, by her, against Clark and
Davis, to recover possession of the chattels, or their value in
ease the delivery of them could not be had.
There was a judgment for the plaintiff, which was, on appeal,
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory. Clark and
Davis sued out this writ. The assignment of errors is set out
in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Richard T. Merrile and Mr. Martin F. Morris for the
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Samuel Shellabarqer and Mr. Jeremiah A. Wilson for
the defendants in error.

Oct. 1881.]

CLARK V. F

EDERICKS.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

The errors assigned in this case are:1. That Mrs. Fredericks, when on the stand as a witness in
her own behalf, was not permitted to answer certain questions
put to her on cross-examination ;
2. That the court did not separate its findings of fact from
its conclusions of law; and,
3. That the court did not find the distinct facts requested by
the plaintiffs in error.
As to the first assignment, it is sufficient to say that no harm
could have resulted from the ruling on the cross-examination,
as in a subsequent stage of the case, when the questions were
clearly proper, the witness testified fully as to all the matters
originally inquired about. A judgment will not be reversed
because of an error of the court in directing as to the order
in which testimony shall be introduced, unless it clearly appears that the complaining party has been injured by what
was done.
The matter referred to in the second assignment does not
seem to have been brought to the attention of either of the
courts below, and the objection now made comes too late in
this court for the first time. If the defect complained of had
been specifically pointed out to the District Court when the
findings were filed, it would no doubt have been corrected.
There is nothing in all this very confused record to indicate
that the point was ever made until the brief for the plaintiffs
in error was filed here.
The findings are conclusive as to the facts, and they cover
all the issues. Whether the distinct facts set forth in the
requests for findings presented by the plaintiffs in error were
proved or not we need not inquire. As the court declined to
find them, we must assume they were not established by the
evidence.
This record is so confused as to be almost unintelligible. If
counsel here had been less careful in the presentation of the
questions raised for our re-examination, we should have declined
to consider the case on this account.
Judgment alffirmed.

