NIEW

NEW

ORLEANS V. MORRIS.

ORLEANS

v.

[Sup. Ct.

MoMRS.

1. The water-works of a city are not subject to sale for its ordinary debts under
execution.
2. A city which owned such works conveyed them to a corporation formed for
the purpose of maintaining and enlarging them, and received therefor
shares of stock, which the statute authorizing the conveyance declared
should not be liable to seizure for the debts of the city, but should be
reserved for the benefit of the holders of the bonds that had been issued
by the city to raise the means wherewith to construct the works. Hld,
that the statute does not, by thus exempting those shares from seizure,
impair the obligation of any contract, as they merely represent the city's
ownership in the water-works which was, before the enactment of the statute, exempt from seizure and sale.
3. The city may, by a suit in equity, restrain its execution creditors from selling
those shares.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. . Howard Me Caleb for the appellant.
'. William Wirt Howe and Mr. John A. Campbell for the
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree, dismissing, on a plea of the
defendants, the bill of the city of New Orleans.
The substance of the bill is that the defendants, having several judgments on the law side of the court below, had caused
executions to be issued and levied upon shares of the stock of
the New Orleans Water-Works Company; that the marshal had
advertised and was about to sell them ; that prior to March 31,
1877, the city was the sole and absolute owner of the waterworks now owned and held by the corporation known as the
New Orleans Water-Works Company; and that on that day
the legislature of Louisiana enacted a law creating that corporation, with a capital of ,$2,000,000. Of this sum the corporation, as soon as organized, was to "issue to the city of New
Orleans stock to the amount of $606,600, full paid and not
subject to assessment, and in addition thereto one similar share
for every hundred dollars of water-works bonds which the city

Oct. 1881.]

Nuw ORLEANS

V. MORRIS.

has taken up heretofore and extinguished by payment, exchange, or otherwise; and that the residue of said capital stock
shall be reserved for the benefit of all holders of water-works
bonds, to the extent of the amount 1now outstanding, who may
elect to avail themselves of the provisions of this act."
The bonds here referred to were issued by the city while
sole owner of the water-works, in aid of their construction and
extension.
The seventh section of this act reads as follows: "Be it further enacted, that the stock owned by the city of Ncw Orleans
in said water-works company shall not be liable to seizure for
the debts of said city."
It was under this statute, and especially under the section
just recited, that the city invoked the restraining power of the
court to prevent the sale of its stock in the company.
To this bill the defendants interposed a plea to the effect
that, so far as the provision of the statute, exempting tile stock
of the city inthe water-works company from sale under execution, relates to their judgments, it is void by the Constitution
of Louisiana and the Constitution of the United States, each of
which forbids the enactment of laws impairing tile obligation
of contracts ; and that the contracts on which their judgments
were obtained were made before the passage of the act of 1877.
The court held this plea good, and, as we have already said,
refused the injunction, and dismissed the bill.
The first point raised in argument which requires our attention is that, whether the court below was right or wrong in
its decision of the case on its merits, the bill inust still be
dismissed for want of equity, o1 the ground that there isan
ample remedy at law by a motion to the court to compel tile
marshal to release his levy, because the stock was not liable to
be sold on the execution.
It will be observed that no such objection was made in the
court below, and although on(, of the defendants filed a general demurrer to the bill which might have raised it, he afterwards withdrew his demurrer and joined in the plea on which
the case was decided.
This plea was a defence on the merits of the case, and
was to be held good or bad on precisely the same principles,

NEW ORLEANS V. MORRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

whether pleaded to a declaration at law or a bill in chancery.
We should, under such circumstances, have great hesitation to
permit the party who, by tendering this issue, had waived the
question of the special jurisdiction of the court in equity, to
raise that point for the first time on appeal.
We are of opinion, however, that the bill does show on its
face a sufficient ground of equitable jurisdiction in its allegations that are sustained by the provisions of the statute, which
create a trust in favor of the holders of the old water-works
bonds of the city, and of other creditors of the city, which is
not shown in any way to have been released or discharged.
Notwithstanding, therefore, the opinion of this court in Van
Norden v. Morton (99 U. S. 378), that in the ordinary case
of a wrongful levy of an execution on property not subject to
be seized under it, the proper remedy is by motion to have the
levy discharged, we think there is in this bill other sufficient
grounds for the equitable jurisdiction of the court.
The question to be decided on the merits is, shortly, this:
Is a statute of a State legislature which, in the act authorizing
a city to convert its ownership of a large and valuable property, held for the use of the public, such as this, into the
shares of a joint-stock corporation, declares that these shares
shall be exempt from judicial sale for the debts of the city, an
impairment of the obligation of existing contracts within the
meaning of the Constitution ?
The learned counsel, in the oral argument and in the brief,
substantially concedes that the water-works themselves, in the
hands of the city, were not liable to be sold for the debts of
the city. And if no such concession were made, we think it
quite clear that these works were of a charteter which, like
the wharves owned by the city, were of such public utility and
necessity, that they were held in trust for the use of the citizens. In this respect they were the same as public parks and
buildings, and were not liable to sale under execution for ordinary debts against the city.
There is nothing in the nature of this legislation which
directly impairs the obligation of the city's contract with the
appellees. The courts recognized the binding force of those
contracts by rendering judgments ugainst the city after the

Oct. 1881.]

NEW ORLEANS V. MORRIS.

passage of the act complained of, just as they would before,
and there is no pretence but that the moral or legal obligation
of the city to pay those judgments remains undiminished.
The force of the argament for holding the statute void rests
on certain decisions of this and other courts in regard to laws
which attempted to exempt from the liability to seizure under
execution property wiich, at the time the contract was made,
was by law so liable to be seized and sold in enforcement of
the contract. The eases of most importance so relied on are
Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1 ; Bronson v. Kiuzie, 1 How. 311;
lcCrac/en v. Hayward, 2 id. 608.
But these cases do not go so far as the argument in this case
requires. Indeed, they fall far short of it. They simply hold
that an act of the legislature, passed after a contract is made,
which withdraws property then liable to be seized and sold, in
enforcement of that contract, from the power of the courts to
seize and sell it, impairs the obligation of the contract. But it
has never been held, so far as we are advised, that a statute dealing with property not subject to sale for enforcement of the
contract, cannot, in providing for a change of the form of the
title by which the debtor holds it, continue the exemption from
forced sale of that which represents in the hands of the same
owner the property so exempt. That is the case before us.
The water-works were not liable to execution for judgments
against the city. The legislature intended to change the form
of the city's ownership of that property into that of shares of
the capital stock of a company, of which it was at first to
be sole owner. These shares represented the water-works of
the city. They represented nothing else. The city owned the
shares, and the legislature continued in this property, in the
hands of the city as shares of stock, the same exemption which
belonged to the property represented by these shares. In
doing this no right of the creditors, at the time they made
their contract or the passage of the act, was impaired. No
property to which they then had a right to look for payment of
their debt, or as a means of enforcing their contract, has been
withdrawn from the force of its obligation. They are placed
by this law in no worse condition than they were before.
They were not obstructed or impaired in the exercise of any

NEW ORLEANS

V. MORRIS.

.[sup. Ct.

remedy which they had when the contract was made. Nothing subject to their debt, - not by way of lien, for such debts
created no lien, - but subject to execution after it might be
issued, was withdrawn from that subjection. The shares were
evidence of title in property which had never been liable to
execution, and the statute continued this exemption in the
ownership of these shares so long as it remained in the city.
But it is said that a creditor has, by his contract, the same
right to enforce its performance out of property acquired after
his debt is created as he had against that which the debtor
owned when the contract was made. In a general sense there
can be no doubt of the truth of this proposition. But there
are two answers to it in the present case. In the first place,
the property in question is not other and different property
from that held and owned by the city at the time of the contract, and which was then exempt from execution. It has
only changed the form and evidence of ownership. The shares
represent in the hands of the city the same interest which it
had before in the water-works.
In the next place, the city was not situated, as regards this
property, as a private person would be in the purchase and
acquisition of ordinary property. The city could not have sold
this property as the law stood. It could not have put it into
a joint-stock company without the aid of a new law. The
legislature, in authorizing the change in the form of the ownership of the water-works, could, since it injured nobody and
invaded no one's rights, say, as to the city, whether it be
called new property or not, that such ownership should continue exempt from execution.
As the city was using no means in acquiring this stock which
could have been appropriated under any circumstances to the
payment of the debts of appellees, the legislature impaired
no obligation of the city in declaring the stock thus acquired
exempt from liability for debts.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the plea of defendants
was bad.
Decree reversed, with directions to overrule the plea, and for
such further proceedings as are not inconsistent with this
opinion.

