UNITED STATES V. TYLER.

UNITED

STATES

v.

[Sul). CL.

TYLER.

1. An officer of the army who is "retired from active service" is still in the mil.
itary service of the United States, and, in addition to the per centum of the
pay of the rank on which he was retired, is entitled to the ten per centan
allowed by law for each term of five years' service.
2. The ten per centum is to be computed on the sum primarily fixed as such
reduced pay, with the increase for each five years previously earned added
to that sun, when its increase for any new period of five years is to be
computed.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Solicitor-Generalfor the United States.
Mr.Richard W. 7ller and lI'. Robert B. Warden for the
appellee.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The question in this case is, whether the appellee, who, on
the fifteenth day of December, 1870, was retired from the
army of the United States with the rank of captain, on account of wounds received in battle, is entitled to the benefit of
the statute which increases the pay of officers by ten per cent
for every period of five years' service.
The law for this increased compensation is thus expressed in
the Revised Statutes: "SECT. 1262. There shall be allowed and paid to each commissioned officer below the rank of brigadier-general, including chaplains, and others having assimilated rank or pay, ten per centum
of their current yearly pay for each term of' five years' service.
"SECT. 1263. The total amount of such increase for length of
service shall in no case exceed forty per centum of their current
yearly pay of the grade as prescribed by law."
These sections are taken from the act of July 15, 1870, c.
294, and constituted the law on that subject when the appellee
was retired, and their proper construction is the measure of his
rights in this controversy. Sect. 1276 of the Revised Statutes
was sect. 24 of the same statute, and is in the following language: " Officers retired from active service shall receive sev-

Oct. 1881.]

UNITED STATES V. TYLER.

245

enty-five per centum of the pay of the rank upon which they
are retired."
Section 1275 provides that " officers wholly retired from the
service shall be entitled to receive upon their retirement one
year's pay and allowances of the highest rank held by them,
whether by staff or regimental commission, at the time of their
retirement."
There is, therefore, a manifest difference in the two kinds
of retirement, namely, retiring from active service and retiring
wholly and altogether from the service.
In the latter case such reward or compensation as Congress
thought proper to bestow, namely, one year's pay and allowance, in addition to what was previously allowed, is given at
once, and the connection is ended. In the former case the
compensation is continued at a reduced rate, and the connection is continued, with a retirement from active service only.
The question is, therefore, whether an officer thus situated
is in the service within the meaning of sect. 1262. That seetion'allows an increase of pay for every five years' service.
When the service ends, there can be no increase on that account. As long as the service continues, the increased pay
applies whenever it amounts to five years.
The law under which these officers are retired does not
require their consent, nor does it require that the order for
their retirement shall be based upon any absolute incapacity
for further service. It may be based upon age, which, being
fixed at a minimum of sixty-two years, by no means implies
such incapacity. It may be based upon wounds received in
battle, but the person retired for this cause may, for many
pur'poses, be a very useful officer.
The provisions of the statutes, and the uniform treatment
of these officers, conform to this view, and necessarily imply
that, while not required to perform full service, they are a part
of the army, and may be assigned to such duty as the laws and
regulations permit.
Section 1094 of the revision designates specifically by a
catalogue of twenty-eight items, of what the army of the
United States consists, and the twenty-seventh item of this
enumeration is "the officers of the army on the retired list."

UNITED

STATES

v.

TYLER.

[Sup. Q .

They are then by law a part of the army.
Section 1256 enacts that "officers retired from active service shall be entitled to wear the uniform of the rank on
which they may be retired. They shall continue to be borne
on the Army Register, and shall be subject to the rules and
articles of war, and to trial by general court-martial for any
breach thereof."
Section 1259 declares that they may be assigned to duty at
the Soldiers' Home; and sect. 1260, that they may be detailed to serve as professors in any college.
It is impossible to hold that men who are by statute declared
to be a part of the army, who may wear its uniform, whose
names shall be borne upon its register, who may be assigned
by their superior officers to specified duties by detail as other
officers are, who are subject to the rules and articles of war,
and may be tried, not by a jury, as other citizens are, but by a
military court-martial, for any breach of those rules, and who
may finally be dismissed on such trial from the service in
disgrace, are still not in the military service.
If Congress chose to provide for their qualified relief from
active duty, and for a diminished compensation, it did not
discharge them from their other obligations as part of the
army of the United States. And if, because they were not
required to do full service thereaf*ter, their compensation was
diminished by the statute twenty-five per cent, that is no
reason why the accounting officers should add a further limitation of pay not found in any statute.
We are of opinion that retired officers are in the military
service of the government, and that the increased pay of ten
per cent for each five years' service applies to the years so
passed in the service after retirement as well as before.
We also hold that the words "current yearly pay," in sect.
1262, require that, when the increased pay for any period
of five years is to commence, the ten per cent must be
counted on the regular salary added to its increase by any
previous periods of five years; so that the original salary of
the rank, and any additions of ten per cent previously earned
for periods of five years, constitute the current yearly pay on
which said ten per cent is to be calculated.
Judgment affirmed.

