Oct. 1881.]

BENNECKE V. INSURANCE CO.

the habits of the insured, " in the usual, ordinary, and everyday routine of his life, were temperate," the representations
made are not untrue, within the meaning of the policy,
although he may have had an attack of delirium tremens from
an exceptional over-indulgence. It could not have been contemplated from the language used in the policy that it should
become void for an occasional excess by the insured, but only
when such excess had by frequent repetitions become a habit.
And the testimony of the witnesses, who had been intimate
with him for years, and knew his general habits, may well
have satisfied the jury that, whatever excesses he may at times
have committed, he was not habitually intemperate.
Judgment ajfirined.

BENNECKE

V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

A party whose life was insured died at a place south of a certain parallel of latitude, his visit to which at that season of the year, without the consent of
the company, worked a forfeiture of the policy. A relative, ignorant of his
death, paid the customary price for a permit to go South to the local agent
of the company, who transmitted to its State agents the money, and requested
them to obtain the permit and forward it to him. It was not issued, and
the agent, shortly after hearing of the death of the insured, tendered the
money he had so received. Iield, that the facts did not constitute a waiver
of the forfeiture, and if they did, it was not, under the circumstances,
binding.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
This was an action of assumpsit brought by Amelia Bennecke to recover of the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance
Company the sum of $2,000 upon a policy of life insurance.
The parties having waived a jury, the issues, both of fact
and law, were submitted to the court, which made a special
finding, from which the following facts appear: On Jan. 29, 1878, Adolph Bennecke procured from the
Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, through John
Ansley, its agent at Bloomington, Ill., a policy of insurance
ERROR

BENNECKE V. INSURANCE

CO.

[Sup. Ct;.

on his life, for $2,000, for the benefit of Amelia Benneeke, his
wife. It was an ordinary life policy, and contained, among
other conditions, the following:" 3d, That the said insured -is under this policy freely permitted to reside in any civilized abode in the western heinisphere, lying north of the thirty-second parallel of north latitude
in the United States, and lying south of said thirty-second parallel, excepting from the first day of July to the first day of
November, and in the eastern hemisphere lying north of the
forty-second parallel of north latitude and west of the fortieth
meridian of longitude east from Greenwich, and he may also
pass as a passenger by usual routes and means of public conveyance to and from any port or place within the foregoing
limits; but if he shall, at any time during the continuance of
this policy, pass beyond or be without the foregoing limits
without the consent of this company previously given in writing in each or either of the foregoing cases, then this policy
shall become and be null and void.
" 4th, That in every case inwhich this policy shall cease and
determine, or shall be or become null and void, all premiums
paid in respect to the same shall be forfeited to the company."
After the signatures of the secretary and vice-president of
the company and on the margin at time bottom of the policy
appears the following: "&
Agents of the company have no authority to make,
alter, or change any condition of the policy, nor to waive forfeiture thereof."
The annual premium of $46.24 required by the terms of the
policy was duly and fully paid.
Bennecke left his home at Bloomington, Ill., on Sept. 26, 1878,
and went to New Orleans, La., where he remained until his
death, which occurred Oct. 15, 1878. He died of yellow fever.
Ansley had been the agent of the Connecticut Mutual Life
Insurance Company, at Bloomington, Ill., from 1863, up to
and including October, 1878. On Oct. 16, 1878, he first
heard that Bennecke had gone to New Orleans. On October
17, he called on Haker, the assured's brother-in-law, to whom
lie stated that he had heard that Bennecke was then in Nev
Orleans, and that on account of this violation of the condition

Oct. 1881.]

BENNECKE V. INSURANCE

CO.

of the policy the insurance was forfeited. He advised Haker
to pay, on behalf of Bennecke, twenty dollars, the price of a
Southern permit. Haker at first said lie knew nothing about
it, and refused to pay the money. He then said lie would look
into the matter. The same day, after a consultation with Mrs.
Bennecke, he went to Ansley's office, paid him twenty dollars,
and took from him a receipt, as follows: AGENCY AT BLOOMINGTON, ILL., Oct. 17, 1878.
" $20.
"Received from Christ. Haker, twenty dollars, being the amount
required for a southern permit on policy of Adolph Bennecke in
the Connecticut Mutual Lifb Insurance Company, of Hartford,
Conn., No. 52,242.
"Amount of policy $2,000.
"JOHN ANSLEY, Agent."

At the time of taking this receipt, neither Haker, Ansley,
nor Bennecke's wife or friends knew that Bennecke was
dead.
Ten dollars per thousand was the customary price fixed by
the company as the extra premium for a permit to go south of
the thirty-second parallel between the 1st of July and the 1sti
of November. Ansley recollected having received money for
three or four such permits, possibly more, at that rate. In
such cases lie simply received the money for the permits, forwarded it to the State agents of the insurance company at
Chicago, and requested them to get permits from the insurance company at Hartford, Conn., and send them to him for
delivery. He enclosed the twenty dollars received from Haker
to the State agents of the insurance company at Chicago, in
the following letter, the receipt of which they acknowledged: "AGENCY AT BLOOMINGTON, Oct. 17, 1878.
& CO.
DICKINSON,
STEARNS,
"Messrs.
Herein please find draft for $20, less ex., for which
1 GENTS,please get and send me a southern permit for A. Benneeke, insured
by policy 52,242; amount $2,000. Ile went to New Orleans about
ten days ago, and will probably remain there during the balance of
the month. Please give this immediate attention, and get permit
here as soon as possible. This twenty dollars paid this day.
JOHN ANsmiaY."
" Yours truly,

BENNECKE V. INSURANCE

Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Ansley never received a permit from the insurance company
for Bennecke. On the 6th of November, 1878, he having become satisfied that Bennecke was dead at the time the money
was paid for the permit, of his own notion took twenty dollars
of other money belonging to the company and tendered it to
Haker, stating as a reason therefor that Bennecke was (lead at
the time the money was paid. Haker refused to receive it.
Ansley had no authority to issue policies of insurance, but
after they were issued he turned them over to the parties on
payment of the premium. He received no word from the
company or the State agents about Bennecke's death up to the
time he tendered the money to Haker. On the 26th of October he addressed a letter to those agents, in which he informed
them that Bennecke had died on October 17, in New Orleans,
of yellow fever. From all that appears this was the first information received by them of Bennecke's death.
Ansley knew what was the price required for a permit, and
had never applied for one without getting it. But he never
applied for one when yellow fever was prevailing in the
forbidden region. Proofs of loss, dated the 6th of December,
1878, were furnished the insurance company, and on the trial
it offered to return the money received by Ansley for the
permit.
Suit on the policy was begun in the Circuit Court of McLean
County, Illinois, on the eighteenth day of April, 1878, by a
declaration on the policy. The general issue only was pleaded,
and on the petition of the defendant the case was transferi:ed
to the Circuit Court of the United States. It was admitted by
the company that there was no other defence in the case than
what arose from the forfeiture of the policy by reason of the
fact that Bennecke had gone south of the thirty-second: parallel
of latitude between the first of July and the first of November,
without the consent of the company previously given in writing; and on the foregoing facts it occurred as a question
whether the forfeiture had been waived by the company, on
which question the judges were opposed, and the presiding
judge being of opinion that the forfeiture had not been waived,
judgment was entered for the defendant.
Whereupon, and on motion of the defendant, by its counsel,

Oct. 1881.]

BENNECKu

V. INSURAINCE

CO.

it was ordered that the state of the pleadlings, and the facts
found, and the question on which the judges differed, be certified according to the request of the defendant, and the law
in that case made and provided, to this court to be finally
decided.
The cause has accordingly been brought to this court by
writ of error,
Mr. William A. McK;nney for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. -EdwardAS. Isham for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It is not disputed by the plaintiff, that, upon the facts found,
the policy of insurance had been forfeited. It is not insisted
that the company by its agent formally waived the forfeiture,
or issued any permit to Bennecke, from which such waiver
could be inferred.
But the plaintiff contends that, after the forfeiture of the
policy, Ansley, the agent of the company at Bloomington, having on October 17 received the sun usually charged for a permit to reside south of the thirty-second parallel, between the
1st of July and the 1st of November, and sent it on the same
day to the agents of the company at Chicago, its receipt by
them, and the fact that they never returned it to tie person
by whom it was paid, are sufficient to establish the company's
waiver of the forfeiture.
It does not appear from the findings that either the agent at
Bloomington, or those at Chicago, had any direct authority to
waive a forfeiture. But even if it were shown that they had
such authority, and had waived the forfeiture, or that tie
company itself had waived it, the waiver would not, under the
circumstances of this case, be binding on the company.
A waiver of a stipulation in an agreement must, to be effectual, not only be mnade intentionally, but with knowledge of the
circumstances. This is the rule when there is a direct and
precise agreement to waive the stipulation. A fortiori is this
the rule when there is no agreement either verbal or in writing to waive the stipulation, but where it is sought to deduce
a waiver from the conduct of the partty. T'lhus, Nhere a written

BENNECKE

V. INSURANCE

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

agreement exists and one of the parties sets up an arrangeinent of a different nature, alleging conduct on the other side
amounting to a substitution of this arrangement for a written
agreenment, he must clearly show not merely his own understanding, but that the other party had the same understanding.
Darnley (Earl) v. London, Chatham, J&Dover Railway
1 Co.,
Law Rep. 2 11. L. 43.
The same rule applies to the ratification by the principal of
the unauthorized acts of his agent.
" It is perfectly well settled that a ratification of the unauthorized acts of an agent, in order to be effectual and binding on
the principal, must have been imade with a full knowledge of
all material facts, and that ignorance, mistake, or misapprehension of any of the essential circumstances relating to the particular transaction alleged to have been ratified will absolve the
principal from all liability by reason of any supposed adoption
of or assent to the previously unauthorized acts of the agent."
Combs v. Scott, 12 Allen (Mass.), 493.
And it has been declared by this court that " no doctrine is
better settled, both upon principle and authority, than this:
that the ratification of an act of an agent previously unauthorized must, in order to bind the principal, be with a full knowledge of all the material facts. If the material facts be either
suppressed or unknown, the ratification is treated as invalid,
because founded on mistake or fraud." Owings v. iull, 9 Pet.
607. See also Dield v. Adaais County Jlutual Insurance Co.,
58 Pa. St. 443; Bevin v. Conn. Mutual LifetInsurance Co., 23
Conn. 244; Viall v. Genessee Mutual Jnsurance Co., 19 Barb.
(N. Y.) 440.
There is no pretence in this case that the company was
advised of the material facts, when its supposed waiver of the
forfeiture of the policy and its ratification of the acts of its
agent took place. The contention of the plaintiff is that a forfeiture was waived when the company was totally ignorant
that it existed. And the waiver is inferred from a permit,
which is itself deduced from the fact that an agent, himself
ignorant of the material facts, agreed to apply to the company for it, and received and forwarded the money to pay
therefor.

Oct. 1881.]

BENNECKE

V. INSURANCE

CO.

The very purpose for which a permit was asked shows that
both parties were ignorant of the facts which should have been
communicated to the company and its agents before any effect,
could be given to its alleged waiver of the forfeiture. Permission was asked that Bennecke might reside and travel south
of a certain parallel. This implied that he was living and able
to travel. But the findings show he was dead when the permit was applied for. If the company had given him a formal
permit in writing to reside and travel south of the thirty-second
parallel, he being dead at the time, and the company ignorant
of the fact, it would be a complete non sequitur to hold that
this amounted to a waiver of a forfeiture of the policy unknown
to the company, and consequent upon his doing the act for
which a permit was asked, and which was in violation of a
condition of the policy.
The case may be thus stated: The right of the plaintiff to
a recovery rests on a waiver by the insurance company of the
forfeiture of the policy. But there has been no direct waiver.
The waiver is deduced from the permit. But there has been
no formal permit. The permit is inferred from the fact that
Ansley, a local agent, who had no knowledge of the death of
Bennecke, applied for a permit to other agents also ignorant
of the death of Bennecke, and remitted to them the money

therefor which they retained, but which Ansley tendered
back, using for the tender other moneys of the company ;'the
company itself, the principal of these agents, being all the
time ignorant that Bennecke had forfeited his policy by a
violation of its conditions, or that he had died in consequence
of such violation, or that after his death a permit to allow
him to reside and travel in the forbidden region had been applied for, or that any money had been handed to its agent to
be paid over as the consideration for such permit.
The case of the plaintiff is not aided by the facts found by
the court in relation to the retention by the agents of the
company of the money paid for the permit. It is unnecessary
to decide what inference might be drawn if the company or its
agents, with full knowledge of the death of Benneeke, had
retained the money and never tendered it back. It does not
appear that Ansley was informed of the death of Bennecke

ASYLUMI v. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

until October 26. On November 6, eleven days thereafter, he
tendered back to Haker the money advanced by him to pay for
the permit. Under the circumstances of this case we do not
think this lapse of time sufficient to show that Ansley intended
to waive the forfeiture of the policy, even if he had been
clothed with authority to do so.
If the company was bound by the act of Ansley in receiving
the money for the permit, it was entitled to the benefit of his
act in tendering it back. One tender was sufficient. That
made by Ansley was never disavowed by the company. On
the contrary, the company renewed it upon the trial of the
cause in the Circuit Court.
Under the circumstances of this case, the contention that
the insurance company waived the forfeiture of the policy is
without support.
Judgment affirmed.

ASYLUM v. NEw ORLEANS.
An institution in the city of New Orleans for the relief of destitute females
and helpless children of all religious denominations was incorporated April
29, 1853, by an act of the General Assembly of the State of Louisiana,
which declares that from and after its passage all the property, real and
personal, belonging to the institution "is hereby exempted from all taxation
either by the State, parish, or city in which it is situated, any law to the
contrary notwithstanding." By means of donations the institution erected
an asylum, and has always fulfilled the objects for which it was est'iblished.
In the year 1874 certain property-a cotton-press-was devised to it, the
revenues of which have been faithfully applied to enable it to carry on its
work. Under a statute enacted in pursuance of article 118 of the State Constitution of 1868 (ifra, p. 364), the city in 1876 imposed upon that property
a tax, the validity of which was sustained by the court below. Held, 1. That
imposing the tax without granting any compensation or iidenmnity was not
a legitimate exercise of the power of dissolving corporations which is reserved
in a provision of the Code of Louisiana. 2. That the statute and the provision, as they were construed and applied to the circumstances of this ease,
are in violation of the tenth section of the first article of the Constitution of
the United States.

EnRoR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.

Thefacts are stated in the opinion of the court.

