Oct. 1881.]

HEWITT V. PIHELPS.

393

HEWITT V. PHELPS.
1. From the decree of a State court rendered in 1874 an appeal was in 1876
taken to the Supreme Court, where, in 1877, the decree was reversed and
the cause remanded, "with leave to both parties to amend pleadings as they
may be advised, and to take testimony, and for an account to be taken in
accordance with the views contained in the opinion" of the court. On the
day after the mandate was received in the court of original jurisdiction
the defendant filed his petition, praying that, by reason of the citizenship
of the parties, the cause be removed to the proper Circuit Court of the
United States. Iield, that neither the date when, nor the stage of the cause

at which, the petition was filed precluded the removal under the act of
March 3, 1875, c. 137. .1ifkcins v. Sweetzer (102 U. S. 177) distinguished.
2. A., and B., his wife, conveyed her separate property to a trustee upon trust
for her use during her life, and in remainder in fee for the use of her
children living at the time of her death. Tlie deed reserves to her the power
to sell and exchange the property, and declares ' that the trustee is to permit A., as agent for the trustee, and as agent and trustee for said B. dur-

ing her life, and as agent and trustee for her children after her death, to
superintend, possess, manage, and control the property for the benefit of all
concerned." The trustee was not to be responsible for the acts or conduct
of A. The latter was, however, for the purposes of the deed, to be a cotrustee, but neither had power to charge the property for any future liability
beyond the support of A. during his life. A. survived B. and died insolvent.
A bill was filed against the trustee and the child of B., alleging that upon
A.'s order the complainant had advanced moneys and furnished supplies
which were used for the benefit of the trust estate, and praying that it be
subjected to the payment of the claim. Held, that the bill was properly
dismissed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi.
The facts are stated inthe opinion of the court.

Mr. William L. N7(gent for the appellants.
MVr. James Z. George, Mr. Charles W. Clarce, and MI'. E.
Jeffords for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered

the opinion of the

court.
Hewitt, Norton, & Company, the appellants, filed their bill in
equity, April 17, 1869, in the Chancery Court of Washington
County, Mississippi, against Phelps and wife, the appellees,
and Jonathan Pearce, praying that certain real estate in that
State, which had been conveyed by Sarah Vick to Pearce upon

HEWITT V. PHELPS.

[Sup. Ct.

certain trusts, and of which Mrs. Phelps was the sole beneficiary, be charged with certain sums, which the appellants
allege they had advanced to the trustee, and for which they
claimed that the trust estate was liable.
The appellees were served with process; Pearce was
brought in by publication. The cause having been put at
issue, the bill was, for want of equity, dismissed on final hearing, Nov. 7, 1874. From this decree an appeal was taken,
but not until March 30, 1876, when it was thus removed to
the Supreme Court of the State. It was disposed of in that
Court May 21, 1877, by a decree reversing the decree of the
court below, and remanding the cause, " with leave to both
parties to amend pleadings as they may be advised, and to
take testimony, and for an account to be taken in accordance
with the views contained in the opinion " of the court, which
is to be found reported under the name of Norton v. Phelps,
54 Miss. 467. The mandate of the Supreme Court was filed in
the Chancery Court of Washington County, June 7, 1877, and
on the same day a petition for the removal of the cause to the
Circuit Court of the United States for that district was presented by Phelps and wife, on the ground that at the time of
the commencement of the suit they were citizens of Kentucky,
and had continued so to be at all times since, the plaintiffs
during the same period being citizens of Louisiana, which was
granted, bond given and approved, and transcript filed in the
Circuit Court on Aug. 4, 1877. On Nov. 20, 1877, the appellants moved to remand the cause, which the Circuit Court
refused to do. This ruling of the court is first assigned for
error under the present appeal.
The contention of the appellants is that the Circuit Court
had no jurisdiction to proceed with the cause, because, first,
the suit was not pending at the time of the passage of the act
of March 3, 1875, c. 137, nor thereafter brought, and, therefore, not within the purview of that act; and, second, because,
at the time the removal was effected, the trial of the cause in
the State court had already taken place, or at least begun and
was in progress, whereas the act requires that the petition for
removal shall be filed before the trial thereof.
In our opinion neither of these positions is tenable. Whe-

Oct. 1881.]

O HEWITT
V. PHELPS.

ther, after final decree and before appeal is perfected, a purchaser of the subject of the suit is affected with the notice of
lis pendens may be a question; although a distinction in this
respect is made by some of the authorities between an appeal
in equity and a writ of error, the latter being considered a
new proceeding, not pending until service of citation, while
the former is regarded as a step in the progress of the cause.
But, in contemplation of the act above mentioned, there are
and can be but two classes of suits: one, those pending at the
time of its passage; the other, those thereafter brought. Of
course, a suit terminated has ceased to be a suit. Confessedly
the present is a suit, and could not be said, at the time the act
was passed, to have ended, although the decree was final in
respect to the Court of Chancery which had rendered it, and
would have become so between the parties if no appeal had
been taken within the time limited by law. But until that
period had elapsed it was still a lis 1pendens, in the sense that
the party against whom the decree had been rendered had the
right by an appeal further to prosecute it. It was not the
beginning of a new suit: it was but one additional step in
the progress of an existing one.
The second ground of exception to the removal of the cause
is maintained in argument upon the authority of Jifkcins v.
Sweetzer (102 U. S.177); but that case does not govern this.
That decision turned upon the fact that the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State " disposed of the case finally upon
its merits, and nothing remained to be done but to continue the
hearing already begun until the necessary accounts could be
taken, and the details of a final decree settled." But here, although the Supreme Court of Mississippi passed in its opinion
upon the merits of the case, as disclosed by the record then before it, nevertheless, in remanding the cause, "' with leave to both
parties to amend pleadings as they may be advised, and to take
testimony," the whole matter was open and at large, as though
the cause had never been at issue; and the clause providing
"for an account to be taken in accordance with the views contained in the opinion rendered herein," must be understood as
qualified by the, previous part of the order, and as obligatory
upon the Court of Chancery only as a declaration of general

HEWITT V. PHELPS.

[SLIP. Ct.

principles, to be applied as the facts should thereafter appear.
It was not a judgment which operated as an estoppel between
the parties. It was neither final nor conclusive. In point of
fact, after the removal of the cause into the Circuit Court the
parties availed themselves of the leave granted, and filed new
and amended pleadings. The cause then stood in that court
just as it would have stood in the State court, but for the removal; i. e., for a rehearing upon the merits, and not for the
purpose of merely executing the judgment of the appellate
court, as in the case of -Duncanv. Gegan, 101 U. S. 810. Being
properly removed, the parties are subject to that administration of law which is approved in the judicial tribunals of the
United States, whose jurisdiction is thus invoked, as was held
in King v. Worthington, 104 id. 44.
The Circuit Court having acquired jurisdiction, on final
hearing, upon demurrer, dismissed the bill. We are now required by the appeal to review that decree.
The allegations upon which the alleged equity of the appellants is supposed to arise are, in substance, as follows:On May 4, 1850, Sarah Vick and Henry W. Vick, her
husband, executed and delivered to Jonathan Pearce a deed,
conveying to him all the property which she then owned as
separate property, including a plantation, slaves, utensils, and
stock in Washington County, Mississippi, the subject of the
present suit, upon trust, nevertheless, for her sole and separate
use during her life, and in remainder in fee for the use of her
children living at the time of her death. It was provided that
the proceeds of the property in Washington and Issaquena
Counties, and such parts of it as might be sold, should be applied to the payment of a debt due to the Bank of the United
States, after the payment of which, the proceeds, over what
was necessary to support the plantation and family, were to be
invested for the benefit of all her children living at the time of
her death. It was also provided that she should retain possession of the property during her life, with power to sell or exchange any part, but any property received in exchange to be
subject to the trusts ; " provided further," the deed continued,
"that said trustee is to permit the said Henry W. Vick, as
agent for said trustee, and as agent and trustee for said Sarah

Oct. 1881.]

HEWITT v. PHELPS.

Vick, during her life, and as agent and trustee for her children
after her death, to superintend, possess, manage, and control
said property for the benefit of all concerned: said Henry
W. Vick is to have power to sell and exchange said property
after the death of said Sarah Vick, and apply the proceeds to
the payment of the debt due to the trustee of the Bank of the
United States; or, if the said debt is paid, the proceeds of the
debt to be reinvested and be subject to the trusts of this deed."
Provision is then made for applying a fund due to her fron
property in the hands of Colonel Durden, held by him in trust
for creditors of Colonel Vick, to the payment of certain debts
due from Henry W. Vick, but, it is added, "all the debts
(aforesaid) to be paid by Colonel Vick, if he is able to
do so, and it is only in case lie is not able that it is to be
paid out of said fund ; provided, further, that said property
is always to stand charged for the payment of such amount
for the liberal support and maintenance of the said Henry
W. Vick during his natural life." The concluding clause
in the deed is as follows: " My intention is, that said Henry
W. Vick shall be regarded for the purposes of this deed, not
merely as an agent, but also a co-trustee, and I desire he
may be required to give no security for the performance of
his duties, and the said Jonathan Pearce is not in any manner
to be responsible for the acts or conduct of said Henry W.
Vick."
Henry W. Vick carried on the business of the plantation
until he died in 1861, when Pearce, as trustee, took possession
of the trust property; Mrs. Vick, having preN iously died,
leaving no issue surviving her, except Mrs. Phelps, one of the
appellees.
Hewitt, Norton, & Co., commission-merchants in New Orleans, claim a balance due to them from Pearce, as trustee, of
$7,631.16, which they insist is a charge in equity upon the
trust estate. From statements of the account, contained in the
bill and amendments and exhibits, it appears that the whole of
this balance resulted from transactions with 1I. W. Vick, while
conducting the business of the plantation, prior to April 25,
1861. In a petition addressed by Pearce to the judge of the
Probate Court of Washington County, Nov. 28, 1865, and made

hTEWITT V. PHELPS.

[SLIP. Ct.

an exhibit to the original bill, he states those transactions as
resulting in a balance of $6,145.99, due to the appellants,
which, with $4,231.82, accruing from transactions with himself
as trustee, make $10,377.81, the amount of the balance of the
account which they state as due them June 30, 1862. The
subsequent credits were all for moneys received from Pearce,
and reduced the balance, Oct. 3, 1866, to the amount claimed
in the bill, being less than the amount due at the death of Viek,
with interest added. This analysis of the accounts shows that
the whole claim is covered by the transactions with Vick, and
is not embraced in those bad with Pearce, all the debts incurred by the latter being cancelled by payments made by
him. It is alleged, however, that the balance due at Vick's
death was carried forward in account with Pearce as a charge
against him, with his consent and approval ; and that when lie
took possession of the trust estate he received and used for the
benefit of the estate, clothing, provisions, and other supplies
which had been furnished or paid for by the firm upon Vick's
orders; and it is charged in the bill "that all the items
charged in your orators' said account for money loaned and
supplies furnished were necessary and proper under the deed
of Sarah Vick, and the said money and supplies were applied
to the use and benefit of the trust estate, and upon a settlement of the accounts of the said Jonathan Pearce he would
have had the right to charge the same against the said estate,
and the balance due to him by said estate would have been
and would now be, equal in amount to the debt now claimed
by your orators," &c. It is also alleged that Henry W. Vick,
at the date of the deed, was a man of no means, property, or
credit ; that lie continued in the same condition until his
death; and that Pearce, when he took possession, was in the
same financial condition, and a resident citizen of the State of
Kentucky.
At the death of Mrs. Vick her daughter, now Mrs. Phelps,
was unmarried and a minor, and Jonathan Pearce became her
guardian. On Nov. 28, 1865, he filed his final account as
guardian and trustee in the Probate Court of Washington
County, showing a balance due to the estate from him of
$2,939.40, and reporting, as heretofore stated, the account

Oct. 1881.]

HEWITT V. PHELPS.

899 "

between himself, as trustee, and the appellants. His account
as guardian was settled by an order of the court in January,
1866, and he received credit for an allowance by way of compensation for his services in excess of the balance due from him.
It is charged in the bill that at this settlement Pearce admitted
the balance to be due to the appellants as claimed, and that lie
surrendered possession to Phelps and wife upon an understanding and agreement with them that the debt should be paid out
of the cotton crop then growing on the lands.
It is manifest that the deed of trust from Mrs. Vick to
Jonathan Pearce does not confer upon him or upon Henry W.
Vick any power to charge the estate directly with the payment
of any sums of money for any purpose whatever, with the
single exception of a personal support and maintenance for the
latter. The grantor charges it with the payment of certain
specified obligations, and there is no evidence of an intention
to permit it to be incumbered by the trustee or by Vick.
It is to be noted also that Jonathan Pearce is a trustee
merely of the title, without an-y active duties in regard to the
estate. The power to sell or exchange during his own lifetime
the grantor reserves to herself, and after her death directs that
it be exercised solely by her husband surviving her. All
powers to superintend, possess, manage, and control the property are conferred exclusively upon Henry W. Vick, "as agent
for said trustee and as agent and trustee for said Sarah Vick
during her life, and as agent and trustee for her children after
her death ; " but to be regarded for the purposes of this deed,
not merely as an agent, but also as a co-trustee. "And the
said Jonathan Pearce is not in any manner to be responsible
for the acts or conduct of said Henry W. Vick." So that,
while Pearce was trustee of the title merely, Vick was a cotrustee, having no title or estate in the property, but charged
with all the active duties of management. After the death of
Mrs. Vick, Pearce's sole duty in regard to the trust estate was
to convey the title to the surviving children. By these provisions the power of either to create a charge upon the trust
estate seems to be effectually excluded.
It follows also from these provisions of the deed of trust, and
the facts recited as to the origin and nature of the appellants'

HEWITT V. PHELPS.[

[Sup. Cc.

account, that no equitable charge against the estate can be
established through the supposed liability of Pearce. It is
quite plain that lie was never personally answerable for the
obligations created by Vick, and his alleged assumption of the
account may be rejected as incompetent to create any such
liability upon his part. Neither his admission nor that of the
appellees could, in contemplation of law, create any charge
upon the estate.; and, as trustee, lie could not establish it as
necessary to his own exoneration.
The appellants, then, can reach the estate only, if at all,
through their claim against Vick. For this purpose he may be
regarded as an independent trustee, authorized to do whatever
was necessary and proper in the performance of his duty to
superintend and manage the trust property. Ile was undoubtedly personally bound for all his contracts made in that character. The question is, Does his insolvency create an equity
in behalf of the appellants, to reach the estate, for the benefit
of which the advances are admitted to have been made?
On this point the law prevailing in Mississippi, and governing the case, was well declared, we have no doubt, by the
Supreme Court of that State in Norton v. Phelps, 54 Miss. 467,
471: "In the case of (Tlopton v. Ghiolson (53 id. 466) we
announced the principles applicable to this case. These are,
that persons dealing with a trustee must look to him for payment of their demands, and that, ordinarily, the creditor has
no right to resort to the trust estate to enforce his demand for
advances made or services rendered for the benefit of the trust
estate. But, while this is the rule, there are exceptions to it;
and where expenditures have been made for the benefit of the
trust estate, and it has not paid for them, directly or indirectly,
and the estate is either indebted to the trustee or would have
been if the trustee had paid, or would be if he should pay the
demand, and the trustee is insolvent or non-resident, so that
the creditor cannot recover his demand from him, or will be
compelled to follow him to a foreign jurisdiction, the trust
estate may be reached directly by a proceeding in chancery."
The ground and reason for this rule are, that the trustee has
an equity of his own, for reimbursement for all the necessary
expenses to which he has been put in the administration of his

Oct. 1881.]

HAUSELT V. HAIRItISON.

401

trust, which he can enforce by means of the legal title to the
trust estate vested in him ; and that his creditor, in the eases supposed of his insolvency or absence from the jurisdiction, may
resort to the equity of the trustee, upon a principle of equitable
substitution or attachment, for his own security. It would not
apply against the trust estate in this ease for the enforcement
of a debt created by Vick, for the reason that he had no title
to the property ; but adopting it and applying it as though he
had, it is equally plain that the appellants have established no
right to the relief prayed for. What, at the time of his death,
may have been the state of the account betveen the trust
estate and Henry W. Vick does not appear. There is no alle.gation on the subject in the record. For aught that appears,
he may have had in his bands means enough belonging to the
estate to satisfy all demands against it ; he may, indeed, have
been largely in debt to it. The case, in any of its aspects,
clearly is not within the rule; and the effort to reach the estate through Pearce, instead of Vick, for the reasons already
stated, must fail.
These are the grounds upon which the Circuit Court proceeded in the decree complained of. We find no error in the
record, and the decree is accordingly
Affirmed.

1-AUSELT V. HARRISON.

A. entered into a written contract with B., whereby, in consideration of moneys
advanced by the latter for the pnrchase of skins, he agreed that he would
tan, finish, and deliver them to B. B., in consideration of a commission 01i
sales, and a further percentage to cover insurance, storage, and labor, agreed
to sell them, and put the proceeds, less his commiissions and advances, at tie
disposal of A. It was further agreed that all the skins, whether green, in
the process of tanning, tanned, or tanned and finished, should be considered
as security for refunding the moneys advanced. The business was, for about
six months, carried on until A. became unable, from sickness and financial
embarrassment, to proceed with it, and he was then indebted to B., who was
aware of his condition. They, in order to carry out the first contract, entered
into another, whereby B. was to take possession of A.'s tannery, and run and
use it with such materials there as would be necessary to finish and complete
the skins, and sell them, the net proceeds to be put to the credit of A. after
26
VOL. xv.

