Oct. 1881.]

Ex PAR E B OYD.

tile
same counsel for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Samuel Slclabarger and
Mr. Jeremiah 1. Wilson for the defendant in error.
MR.JUSTIcE BLATCIIFORD, in delivering the opinion of the court, remarked
that the facts and the questions raised were essentially the same in both cases.
The same judgment was entered in this case as in Upton v. McLaughlin.

Ex

PARTE BOYD.

1. A party in whose favor judpyment is rendered in a common-law cause, by a
court of the United States sitting in the State of New York, is, in order to
reach the property of the judgment debtor, entitled to the remedy provided
by the statute of that State, and known as proceedings supplementary to
execution.
2. Section 916 of the Revised Statutes which authorizes, as a natter of procedure,
the resort to that remedy is not in conflict with the Constitution.

PE'TItON for a writ of habeas Cor'pus.
The facts and the statutes bearing upon the question in-

volved are set out in the opinion of the court.
Mr, ]?oger M. Sherman for the peilitioner.

The Solicitor-General for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MATThEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

It is made to appear, by this application, that a judgment
was recovered in the Circuit Court fotr the Southern )istrict of
New York, in favor of the United States against Robert Bod,
the petitioner, and Francis O'Rourke, on which execution vas
issIed and returned unsatisfied, except in the sum of $200,
leaving due thereon il8,128.92. It was thereupon ordered by
the court, on motion of tle plaintiff's attorney, that the matter
be referred to Joseph M. Deuel, Esq., a commissioner of the
court, " to examine the said Robert Boyd and Francis O'Rouke,
and take answers on oath concerning their property, and to
reduce such answers and examination to writing, and also to
examine on oath, concerning such property, such witnesses as
may be offered by the respective parties, and reduce such examination to writing, and report such answers and examination,
and all his proceedings under and by virtue of this order, to this

Ex PARTE BOYD.

[Sup. Ct.

court with all convenient speed, and the said Deuel is hereby
appointed a referee in this action for the purpose aforesaid.
And it is further ordered that the said Robert Boyd and Francis
O'Rourke do appear before the said referee at his office in the
Post Office building, New York City, on the 22d of May, 1879,
at eleven o'clock A. i., to answer before said referee concerning their property as aforesaid ; and for that purpose to appear
before the referee from time to time as be shall direct and
appoint."
The petitioner moved the court to vacate this order, for illegality, which motion was denied. Being required to submit to
the examination, he refused to take an oath to testify under
said order, whereupon, on motion of the attorney for the
United States, the Circuit Court ordered that he be attached
and committed to the custody of the marshal, as punishment
for a contempt of the court in so refusing to be sworn. From
that imprisonment the petitioner seeks to be discharged, and
to that end prays for a writ of habeas corus.
The grounds on which the right to this relief is founded
are set forth in his petition, as follows: " Your petitioner is informed and believes that proceedings
supplementary to execution, wherein your petitioner is restrained of his liberty, are n'ot, by the laws of the State of
New York, a remedy in Commmon-law causes to reach the property of the judgment debtor allowed in actions at law in the
courts of the United States by sect. 916 of the Revised Statutes of the United States ; but, on the contrary, that these
proceedings are, by the laws of the State of New* York, prescribed as part of a code to abolish common-law causes, as
such, and to amalgamate and indiscriminate common-law causes
and suits in equity, and to confer upon the courts of that
State, indifferently, in the same action powers in actions at law
and in equity. Your petitioner is informed and believes that
the application of this provision of that code to the courts of
the United States is not authorized by any act of Congress, and
is in conflict with the provisions of Article III., sect. 2, of the
Constitution of the United States, which preserves and establishes the distinction between relief at law and in equity.
Your petitioner, therefore, avers and charges that the said Cir-

Oct. I881.]

Ex

PARTE BOYD.

culit Court was and is wholly without jurisdiction in the premises, and that, therefore, all its proceedings therein are null
and void."
The material portions of the present statutes of New York
referred to, and which were in force at the time of the adoption of the Revised Statutes of the United States, are as
follows: "PIOCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY

TO EXECUTION.

"SECT. 292. (1.) When an execution against property of the
judgment debtor, or of any one of' the several debtors in the same
judgment, issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides or
has a place of business, . . . is returned unsatisfied in whole or in
part, the judgment creditor, at any time after such return made,
is entitled to an order from a judge of the court . . . requiring
such judgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his property, before such judge at a time and place specified in the order,
within the county to whiclb the execution was issued ...
" (3.) On an examination under this section, either party may
examine witnesses in his behalf, and the judgment debtor may be
examined in the same manner as a witness.
"(5.) No person shall, on examination pursuant to this chapter,
be excused from answering any question on the ground that his
examination will tend to convict him of the commission of a fraud;
but his answer shall not be used as evidence against him in any
criminal proceeding or prosecution. Nor shall lie be excused from
answering any question on the ground that lie has, before the
examination, executed any conveyance, assignment, or transfzir
of his property for any purpose; but his answer shall not be used
as evidence against him in any criminal proceeding or prosecution.
" SECT. 295. Witnesses may be required to appear, and testify
in any proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner as
upon the trial of an issue.
" SECT. 296. The party or witness may be required to attend
before the judge, or before a referee appointed by the court or
judge ; if befbre a refbee, the examination shall be taken by the
referee, and certified to the judge. All examinations and answers
before a judge or referee, under this chapter, shall be on oath.
" SECT. 297. The judge may order any property of the judgment

Ex

PARTE BOYD.

[Sup. Ct.

debtor, not exempt from execution in the hands either of himself
or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied
towards the satisfaction of the judgment.
"SECT. 298. The judge may also, by order, appoint a receiver of
the property of the judgment debtor, in the same manner, and with
the like authority, as if the appointment was made by the court, according to sect. 244*. But before the appointment of'such receiver
the judge shall ascertain, if practicable, by the oath of the party or
otherwise, whether any other supplementary proceedings are pending against the judgment debtor, and if such proceedings are so
pending, the plaintiff therein shafll have notice to appear before him
and shall likewise have notice of all subsequent proceedings in relation to said receivership. No more than one receiver of the property
of a judgment debtor shall be appointed. The judge may also, by
order, forbid a transfer, or other disposition of the property of the
judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, and any interference
therewith. Whenever the judge shall grant an order for the appointment of a receiver of the property of' the judgment debtor,
the same shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the court of the
county where the judgment-roll in the action . . . is filed; and the
said clerk shall record the order in a book to be kept. .

.

. A cer-

tified copy of said order shall be delivered to the receiver named
therein, and he shall be vested with the property and effects of the
judgment debtor from the time of the filing and recording of' the
order as aforesaid. The receiver of the judgment debtor shall be
subject to the direction and control of the court in which the judgment was obtained, upon which the proceedings are fbunded ...
But before he shall be vested with any real property of such judgment debtor a certified copy of said order shall also be filed and
recorded in the office of the clerk of the county in which any real
estate of such judgment debtor, sought to be affected by such order,
is situated, and also in the office of the clerk of the county in which
such judgment debtor resides.
" SECT. 299. If it appear that a person, or corporation, alleped
to have property of a judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims
an interest in the property adverse to him or denies the debt, such
interest or debt shall be recoverable only in an action against such
person or corporation by the receiver, but the judge may, by order,
forbid a transfbr, or other disposition of such property or inter'est,
till a sufficient opportunity be given to the receiver to commence
the action, and to prosecute the same to judgmnient and execution;

Oct. 1881.]

Ex

PARTE BOYD.

but such order may be modified or dissolved by the judge granting
the same, at any time, on such security as he shall direct.
"SECT. 300. The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference
to a referee agreed upon by the parties, or appointed by him, to
report the evidence or the facts, and may, in his discretion, appoint
such referee in the first order, or at any time.
"SECT. 302. (1.) If any person, party or witness, disobey an
order of the judge or referee, duly served, such person, party or
witness, may be punished by the judge as for a contenlpt. (2.)
And in all cases of commitment under this chapter . . . the person
committed may, in case of inability to perform the act required or
to endure the imprisonment, be discharged from imprisonment, by
the court or judge committing him, or the court in which the judgment was rendered, on such terms as may be just."
Section 916 of the Revised Statutes, which repeats, in this

respect, the provisions of sect. 6 of the act of June 1, 1872,
e. 255; "to further the administration of justice," is as follows:
"The party recovering a judgment in any common-law cause,
in any Circuit or District Court, shall be entitled to similar
remedies upon the same, by execution or otherwise, to reach
the property of the judgment debtor as are now provided in
like causes by the laws of the State in which such court is
held, or by any such laws hereafter enacted which may be
adopted by general rules of such Circuit or District Court, and
such courts may from time to time, by general rules, adopt
such State laws as may hereafter be in force in such State
in relation to remedies upon judgments, as aforesaid, by execution or otherwise."
This provision of the Revised Statutes merely embodies and
extends the principle contained in the fourteenth section of the
act of Sept. 24, 1789, c. 20 (1 Stat. 81), which, with the subsequent legislation of Congress in furtherance of it, has been
repeatedly the subject of consideration in this court. Palmer

v. Allen, 7 Cranch, 550 ; Waynie Y. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1 ;
Bank of the United States v. I-lotead, 10 id. 51; Boyle v.
Zacharie, 6 Pet. 648; Beers v. Ilazqhton, 9 id. 329; Boss v.
Duval, 13 id. 45 ; United States v. -K-njht, 14 id. 301 Dunean
v. Darst, I How. 301 ; Me Cracken v. Hayward, 2 id. 608 ; lbrner v. Brown, 16 id. 354

IX

PARTE BOYD.

[SLIP.

Ct.

It is the settled doctrine of this court, as established and
explained by these authorities, that the power of Congress,
under the Constitution, as well as that of the courts of the
United States, acting under its authority, extends to the adoption of the laws of the several States, not only as to the
nature and form of writs of execution for the enforcement of
judgments, but also as to all proceednigs thereupon. As in Beers
v. Ilaughton (supra), where it was held to include proceedings on
the part of the judgment debtor, for his exoneration under insolvent laws of the State from imprisonment under a ca. sa., and
the consequent discharge from liability of the special bail.
It is contended, however, on behalf of the present petitioner,
that the proceedings under which lie has been committed to
the custody of the marshal and restrained of his liberty, in
their origin and nature are of equitable jurisdiction exclusively,
as distinguished from proceedings at common law, which, by
the prohibitions of the Constitution of the United States Congress cannot lawfully authorize the courts of the United States
to administer except by bill in chancery.
The jurisdiction of the courts of chancery in New York,
exercised prior 'to the adoption of its present code, which authorized a discovery of assets from a judgment debtor in aid of
an execution, was statutory. It was conferred and defined by
sects. 38 and 39 of tit. 2, art. 2, 2 Rev. Stats. of New York,
173-174. It was therein provided that " whenever an execution against the property of a defendant shall have been issued
on a judgment at law, and shall have been returned unsatisfied,
in whole or in part, the party suing out such execution may
file a bill in chancery against such defendant, and any other
person, to compel the discovery of any property or thing in
action belonging to the defendant, and of any property, money,
or thing in action due to him or held in trust for him ; and
to prevent the transfer of any such property, money, or thing
in action, or the payment or delivery thereof to the defendant, except where such trust has been created by, or the
fund so held in trust has proceeded from, some person other
than the defendant himself. The court shall have power to
compel such discovery and to prevent such transfer, payment,
or delivery, and to decree satisfaction of the sun remaining

Oct. 1881.]

Ex PARTE iBOYD.

due on such judgment out of any personal property, money, or
things in action belonging to the defendant, or held in trust for
him, with the exception above stated, which shall be discovered
by the proceedings in chancery, whether the same were originally liable to be taken in execution at law or not."
It is said in argument, by Mr. B. F. Butler, in Aiitchell
v. Bunch (2 Paige (N. Y.), 606), that these provisions of the
Revised Statutes were passed in affirmance of the doctrine of
Tiadden v. S pader, 20 Johns. (N. Y.) 554. That case, however,
did not go upon any idea that a bill in equity would lie
against a judgment debtor for a general discovery of assets,
but merely upon the ground of a jurisdiction to discover and
apply equitable assets specifically described. the question
being, as it was put by Woodworth, J., "whether a debtor
who has placed his funds in the bands of a trustee, where they
cannot be reached by an execution at law, can put his creditor
at defiance and enjoy the benefit of these funds, which ought
to be appropriated to the payment of his debts."
This case was preceded by the decisions of Chancellor Kent
in Hendriecs v. Robinson, 2 Johns. (N.Y.) Ch. 283 ; Brincerhoff
v. Brown, 4 id. 671 ; and HeDermnutt v. Strony,' id. 687.
In Hendricks v. Robinson (supra), the Chancellor said: "I
have no doubt that this court can and ought to lend its aid,
whenever that aid becomes requisite to enforce a judgment at
law, by compelling a discovery and account, either as against
the debtor or as against any third person who may have possessed himself of the debtor's property and placed it beyond
the reach of an execution at law. The preliminary step which
seems to be required is, that the judgment creditor should have
made an experiment at law, and bound the property, by actually suing out execution ; " citing Anqell v. Draper, 1 Vern.
399; Lord Nottingham, cited in 1 P. W. 445; 8tileman v. Ashdown, 2 Atk. 477; Shirley v. Watts, 3 id. 200.
In Brincerhoff v. Brown (supra), he said that it was the
settled rule in chancery that the plaintiffs must show that they
have taken out execution at law and pursued it to every available extent against the property before they can resort to that
court for relief; that the presumption is that the codrt which
renders judgment is competent to enforce it ; that, "if he seeks

Ex

PARTE BoYD.[

[Sup. Ct.

aid as to real estate, lie must show a judgment creating a lien
upon such estate ; if he seeks aid in respect to personal estate,
he must show an execution giving him a legal preference or lien
upon the chattels." The opinion cites the case of Taylor v.
Hill (1 Eq. Cas. Abr. 132, pl. 15), before Lord King in 1705,
where the bill having been filed before execution for discovery
of particular specified effects of the judgment debtor in the
hands of a third person, a demurrer was allowed; but the
Chancellor said it would not lie against the debtor himself, nor
against a third person, to have a general discovery. And in
MleDermutt v. Strong (supra), the Chancellor said: " I regard
the law to be clearly settled, that *before a judgment creditor
can come here for aid against the goods and chattels of his
debtor, or against any equitable interest which he may have
therein, he must first take out execution, and cause it to be
levied or returned, so as to show thereby that his remedy at
law fails, and that he has also acquired by that act of diligence
a legal preference to the debtor's interest."
It is quite apparent from this review of the decisions upon
the point in New York, prior to the adoption of the provisions
of the Revised Statutes of that State on the subject, that the
latter gave a much more extensive remedy than was supposed
to exist by virtue of the customary jurisdiction of the Chancery
Court, particularly in requiring, when sought, from a judgment
debtor, a general discovery of assets, legal and equitable, for
the purpose of enabling the judgment creditor to apply them
to the payment of his judgment.
In Mitchell v. Bunch (supra), Chancellor Walwortb seemed
to regard the jurisdiction of chancery, independent of the statute, as equally extensive, and refers to the case of Edgell v.
Haywood and Daowe (3 Atk. 352), decided by Lord Chancellor
Hardwicke in 17465, as a direct authority in support of the bill
in the case before him, and as a decision which had never been
questioned; but the case before Lord [lardwicke was not that
of a bill for general discovery, but for a discovery in respect to
assets alleged to be in the hands of the co-defendant as executor, applicable to the payment of a legacy which belonged
to the judgment debtor under a will, and which the complainant was entitled to have appropriated to the payment of his

Oct. 1881.]

Ex

PARTE BOYD.

judgment, by virtue of the provisions of the act of 10 Geo. II.
c. 26, for the relief of insolvent debtors, under which the debtor's person had been discharged, as an insolvent, from liability
to be taken in execution. The right to the remedy in equity
in that case was put distinctly upon the ground that the method
by which the judgment creditor might have reached the property of his debtor, by proceeding at law against his person,
having been taken away by the statute, the choses in action
were equitable assets which a Court of Chancery would appropriate to the benefit of his creditors.
Mr. Hare, in his Treatise on Discovery (c. 5, sect. 3, p. 84,
ed. 1876), states that "there are some early cases which appear
opposed to the rule which has been stated in the preceding
sections, that a discovery will only be given to be used as evidence at a trial," but adds that " the cases which are cited in
support of a jurisdiction of this nature seem to be chiefly bills
for relief raising a different and substantive equity." He refers, however, to Mountford v. 1T,'alor (6 Ves. Jr. 788) as a
ease where Lord Eldon seems to have acted upon the doctrine
of a general right of the creditor to a discovery, in order to
make is judgment available, in consequence of the admission
of its correctness by counsel. That was the case of a bill by
judgment creditors, who had sued out elegits for a discovery of
freehold estates, charging that the defendant, upon his election
as a member of Parliament, previously to the judgment, gave
in his qualification, and that, if the estates composing it were
conveyed away since, it was without consideration. The Lord
Chancellor remarked on the hearing that he was not quite clear
that such a bill must not allege that, at a given time, the defendant was seized of given lands (not simply suggesting, as a
fishing bill, that at some time or other he had some land) ; anl
that he conveyed those lands away fraudulently to put them
out of the reach of this creditor. Afterwards le overruled the
demurrer, saying: " But the bill charges that the defendant
delivered in a schedule of the particulars of his estates, whereby
he made out his qualification, and that lie has conveyed them
without consideration, as evidence that he has lands liable to
execution, as they may be unquestionably. Upon that I think
he must answer."

Ex PARTE

BOYD.

[Sup. Ct.

It thus appears that the proceeding in aid of execution, in
its present form in New York, as well as that in which it was
administered under the Revised Statutes by the Court of Chancery, was a statutory process, and did not form any part of
that jurisdiction in equity which, as vested in the courts of the
United States by the Constitution, is assumed to be inalienable. And the remaining question, therefore, becomes, not so
much whether Congress may, by appropriate legislation, transmute an equitable into a legal procedure, as, whether it can
in any wise change the rules of pleading and procedure as to
courts, either of law or equity, in force in England at the time
of the adoption of the Constitution, or whether, by the adoption of that instrument, all progress in the modes of enforcing
rights, both at law and in equity, was arrested and their forms
forever fixed. To state the question is to answer it.
The conclusion will be not less clear, however, if we concede that the proceeding in question belongs historically, as
to its form, to the administration of chancery courts. If we
regard its nature, it will be perceived that it is, so far as it relates merely to the discovery of the debtor's assets, a collateral
and auxiliary remedy. If the discovery results in ascctaining
the existence of property, subject to levy under execution,
then the remedy at law is perfectly restored. Or if, by lawful
power over the person of the debtor, lie may be compelled by
a court of law to apply his property to the payment of his
creditor's claim, thie satisfaction is complete. If, on the other
hand, other parties with adverse claims are revealed, or obstacles to the pursuit of the legal rights of the judgment creditor are brought to light, or the interests to be subjected are
not cognizable at law, or the equities require to be marshalled,
it may be that relief can only then be had in a court of equity,
where all parties can be made to appear, all conflicting claims
adjudicated, and the complete remedy moulded to fit the circumstances of the case.
But here we have nothing to do with any question but that
of discovery. The only relief sought is, knowledge of property
belonging to the debtor, applicable, either at law or in .equity,
to the payment of the creditor's judgment. What shall be
done, after that knowledg(,e has been acquired, is to be deter-

Oct. 1881.1

Ex

PARTE

loYI).

mined upon the circumstances as they may then appear, and
cannot now be considered. For the proceeding for discovery
is distinct and entirely separable from the subsequent relief, if
any shall then be sought.
Now, it is of the essence of the jurisdiction of courts of
equity, in bills of discovery merely, that it is in aid of the legal
right; and it is a fundamental rule, prescribed for the exercise
of that jurisdiction, in the words of Story (Eq. Jar., sect. 1495),
that " courts of equity will not entertain a bill for discovery
to assist a suit in another court, if the latter is, of itself, comnpetent to grant the same relief ; for in such a case the proper
exercise of the jurisdiction should be left to the functionaries
of the court where the suit is depending." It follows, then,
that although at one time courts of equity would entertain bills
of discovery, in aid of executions at law, because courts of law
were not armed with adequate powers to execute their own
process, yet the moment those powers were sufficiently enlarged, by competent authority, to accomplish the same beneficial result, the jurisdiction in equity, if it did not cease as
unwarranted, would, at least, becone inoperative and obsolete.
A bill in equity to compel disclosures from a plaintiff or a
defendant, of matters of fact peculiarly within his knowledge,
essential to the maintenance of the legal rights of either in a
pending suit at law, would scarcely be resorted to, unless under
special circumstances, now, when parties are competent witnesses, and can be compelled to answer, under oath, all relevant
interrogatories properly exhibited; nor to compel the production of books, deeds, or other documents, important as instruments of evidence, when the court of law, in which the suit is
pending, is authorized by summary proceedings to enforce the
same right.
But even conceding that such enlargements of the powers
of courts of law do not deprive courts of equity of jurisdiction
theretofore exercised, no one has ever supposed that they were
illegitimate intrusions upon the exclusive domain of equity, or
produced any confusion of boundaries between the two systems. No one has ever questioned the authority of Congress
to make parties to a suit competent witnesses, or to confer
upon courts of law power to compel tile production of books
VOL. XV.

42

Ex I'ARTE

BOYD.

[Sup. Ct.

and papers, because discovery was an ancient head of equitable jurisdiction. It is the very office of the principle of equity
to supply defects in the law, and it is not to be regarded as
anomalous that the technical law should, in the course of its
necessary development, incorporate into its own organization,
improvements in procedure, first introduced as equitable reme(dies. It is this very capacity of parallel growth that constitutes and perpetuates the harmonious coexistence of the two
departments of our jurisprudence. Its history furnishes many
examples and illustrations of this tendency and of its results.
There is certainly nothing in the nature of an examination
of a judgment debtor, upon the question as to his title to and
possession of property applicable to the payment of a judgment
against him, and of the fact and particulars or any disposition he may have made of it, which would render it inappro-,
priate, as a proceeding at law, under the orders of the court,
where the record of the judgment remains, and from which the
execution issues. Such examinations are familiar features of
every system of insolvent and bankrupt laws, the administration of which belongs to special tribunals, and forms no necessary part of the jurisdiction in equity. It is a mere matter of
procedure, not involving the substance of any equitable right,
and may be located, by legislative authority, to meet the requirements of judicial convenience. Whatever logical or historical distinctions separate the jurisdictions of equity and law,
and with whatever effect those distinctions may be supposed
to be recognized in the Constitution, we are not of opinion
that the proceeding in question partakes so exclusively of the
nature of either that it may not be authorized, indifferently,
as an instrument of justice in the hands of courts of whatever
description.
Petition denied.

