Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL BANK V. WATSONTOWN

BANK.

render an action at law for the recovery of damages an inadequate remedy for the wrongs complained of ; and, as no ground
for equitable relief is presented, we are of opinion that the Circuit Court did not err in sustaining the demurrer and dismissing
the bill.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUsTICE GRAY did not sit in this case, nor take any
part in deciding it.

NATIONAL

BANK V. WATSONTOWN

BANK.

1. The statute of Pennsylvania (infra, p. 220), declaring that the stock of a bank
shall be transferable only on the books in such manner as the by-laws shall
ordain, and that no stockholder shall be authorized to transfer his stock
until his debt is discharged or secured to the satisfaction of the directors,
does not prohibit the bank from waiving its right, nor the cashier from
acting for them, by an authority, either express or implied.
2. A. borrowed money of B., to whom lie assigned and delivered his certificate
of stock as collateral security, with authority to sell in case of default in
payment. On A.'s default B. sent the certificate to the cashier of the bank,
who made the requisite entries on the stock ledger which lie kept, it being
the only book, except the book of certificates, showing the transfers of stock,
and it was his practice to keep the account of such transfers without consulting in each case the directors. The latter had adopted no by-law on the
subject. On B.'s instructing the cashier to sell the stock, the latter informed him that it would not be necessary to send him a certificate, but to
forward a power of attorney, which B. did. Part of the stock was sold, the
proceeds were remitted, and the proper entries made on the stock ledger.
A. subsequently became insolvent. He was indebted to the bank, and on
the directors refusing to approve the transfer B. brought suit to compel
the issue to him of the customary certificate of stock. Held, 1. That as
between A. and B. the title to the stock passed by A.'s delivery of the certificate with the accompanying power of attorney. 2. That the acts of the
cashier were binding on the bank, and the transfer by him made on the
stock ledger vested in B. a complete and unincmnbered title to the stock,
and a right to time usual certificate as evidence of his ownership. 3. That
had B. acquired merely an equity based on his contract, the legal right of
the bank to assert its lien was lost by its own laches, and the enforcement
of it would, under the circumstances, operate as a fraud.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Western District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

218

NATIONAL BANK V. WATSONTOWN BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Jffr. John A. J. Creswell and Mr. William ff. Armstronq for
the appellants.
Mr. Oscar Foust and Mr. Robert P. Allen for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity filed by the Cecil National Bank, of
Port Deposit, Maryland, and Jacob Tome, the appellants, to
compel the Watsontown Bank, a corporation of Pennsylvania,
to issue a certificate for two hundred shares of its capital stock
to the said Cecil National Bank, to which the latter claims to
le entitled.
These shares of stock belonged to Powell & Co., a partnership doing business at Williamsport, Pa., as private bankers,
the certificate whereof, then held by them, they assigned and
delivered to Jacob Tome, president of the Cecil National Bank,
as collateral security for two promissory notes of $5,000 each,
of which they were makers, discounted for them by that bank,
and which it held at their maturity. One of the notes was
dated Dec. 4, 1875, at thirty days, the other Dec. 20, 1875, at
forty days, and each contained a stipulation authorizing the
sale of the stock in case of default.
These notes becoming due and remaining unpaid, the Cecil
National Bank, on Jan. 31, 1876, by its president, J. Tome,
transmitted the certificate of stock, in a letter to R. B. Claxton, cashier of the Watsontown Bank, requesting a new certificate in his name, and asking what the stock was worth.
To this Claxton replied to Hopkins, cashier of the Cecil Bank,
on Feb. 1, 1876, acknowledging the receipt of the certificate,
stating that a new board of directors had been elected the day
before; that they would organize on February 7, when a president would be elected, and when, as he added, "I will forward
your stock certificate. Mr. Pardee, our present president, is not
here, and I have no signatures on the stock book." He continted: "I think I can find a purchaser for Mr. Tome's stock at
from 100 to 102, and possibly more. If you will let me know
exact figures I will endeavor to dispose of it promptly, if he so
desires." On February 9, Tome answered, authorizing a sale,
and directing the proceeds to be remitted to him; and wrote
again on February 14, enclosing a power of attorney to sell

Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL

BANK V. WATSONTOWN BANK.

219

and transfer the stock, and stating that it would not be necessary to forward a certificate to him. This letter was an answer
to one from Claxton of February 11, asking for the power of
attorney from Tome to transfer the stock, and stating that as
he intended to sell, it was useless to forward his certificate.
He added that he thought he had arranged for the disposition
of $1,000 of the stock that day, and would be as prompt as
possible in placing the balance. The power of attorney sent
by Tome was in the usual form, and authorized R. B. Claxton
" to sell, transfer, and assign the two hundred shares of stock
of the Watsontown bank standing in my name in the books
of said bank," &c.
In point of fact, on February 4 the account of Powell & Co.
on the stock ledger of the Watsontown Bank was charged by
Claxton, the cashier, with ",10,000 to J. Tome;" and an
account opened with J. Tome, on the same book, crediting
him, of the same date, "by Powell & Co., $10,000." On February 21 this account is debited with two items: "To Henry
Scott $500," and "A. Scott $500; " and the same day Claxton,
the cashier, remitted to Tome the proceeds of the sale of these
twenty shares of stock. On February 16 he had written
aclinowledging the receipt of the power of attorney previously
requested. The accounts of Henry Scott and of Amos Scott,
on the same ledger, are credited with the stock sold to them
respectively.
It appears that this stock ledger was the only book kept by
the Watsontown Bank showing the transfers of stock, except
a book of certificates, the stubs of which showed to whom the
corresponding certificate had been issued, and what certificate
had been surrendered in lieu of it. The stock ledger was kept
by the cashier.
Martin Powell, one of the firm of Powell & Co., was a
director of the Watsontown Bank, and R. B. Claxton, Jr., its
cashier, was also a member of that firm, and known to be such
by the directors of the bank. It was his usual practice, as
cashier, to make and keep the account of transfers of stock
without consulting in each case with the board of directors.
On March 12, 1876, Powell & Co. failed, and April 13, 1876,
made a voluntary assignment for the benefit of creditors.

220

NATIONAL BANK V. WATSONTOWN BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

On the next day, April 14, the Watsontown Bank, by its
attorney, addressed a letter to J. Tome, as follows: " WATSONTOWN, PA., April 14, 1876.
"MY DEAR SIR, - Some time since you sent to our bank a certificate of stock originally issued to Powell & Co., and by them
transferred to you for $10,000. This transfer was never approved
by our president or board of directors, and we will not do so, or
cannot under the act of' assembly regulating banks in this Commonwealth, so long as Powell & Co. are indebted to us, either as drawer,

maker, or indorser, for matters due and unpaid. And, as this is
the existing state of facts, we cannot permit a transfer to be made
until we are secured to the satisfaction of our board of directors for
all their (Powell & Co.'s) liabilities."
The statutory provision referred to is sect. 10, art. 10, of
an act regulating banks, approved April 10, 1850, and reads as
follows: -

"The stock of the bank shall be assignable and transferable on
the books of the corporation only, and in the presence of the president or cashier, in such manner as the by-laws shall ordain; but no
stockholder indebted to the bank fbr a debt actually due and unpaid shall be authorized to make a transfer or receive a dividend
until such debt is discharged or security to the satisfaction of'
the directors given for the same."
No by-law on the subject is shown to have been passed by
the directors of the Watsontown Bank.
It is assumed that the account between the bank and Powell
& Co. shows that the latter was indebted to the former on
Feb. 1, 1876, for a balance amounting to $5,215.67.
The Circuit Court rendered a decree denying the relief as
prayed for, and requiring the bank to transfer one hundred
and eighty shares of the stock, being the original amount less
the twenty shares sold to the Scotts, only upon payment of the
sum found due to it, from Powell & Co., with interest.
The complainants bring the present appeal to review this
decree.
As between Powell & Co. and Tome, representing the appellants, the property in the shares of stock, undoubtedly,
passed to the latter without the formality of a transfer on the

Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL BANK V. WATSONTOWN BANK.

.221

books of the Watsontown Bank. As collateral security for
the payment of their notes, discounted and held by the Cecil
National Bank, and with the power to sell for the purpose of
payment, the title passed by the delivery of the certificate,
with the accompanying power of attorney. Johnston v. Laflin,
103 U. S. 800.
The title, however, was unquestionably subject to the lien
given by its charter to the Watsontown Bank. That provision, when insisted on and enforced, would be effectual to subject the beneficial interest in the stock to the payment of any
indebtedness from the stockholder, making the transfer, to the
bank for a debt which, at the time of the proposed transfer,
was actually due and unpaid.
According to the terms of this provision the bank was
properly represented, in the act of transfer, by its cashier; and
he was authorized to bind the bank, in consummating the
transaction, by virtue of his office, in the absence of any bylaw, according to the usage of the business and the practice of
the particular bank, presumed to be known to and approved
by the directors. Case v. Bank, 100 U. S. 446.
The clause which denies to the stockholder the privilege of
making a transfer of his stock, while a debtor, until his debt is
discharged or secured to the satisfaction of the directors, does
not forbid the bank to waive its rights, or prevent the cashier
from acting for the directors, by virtue of an express or implied
authority. In this, as in other matters of ordinary business,
within the general scope of his official duty, lie is their approThere is no circumstance which, in
priate representative.
our opinion, limits the general and usual authority of the
cashier in respect to the transfer of the stock in question.
The fact that he was a member of the firm of Powell & Co.,
whose stock it had been, can have no such effect; for his relation to the parties was well known to the directors of the
bank, and he had no interest in the transaction adverse to his
official duty. Whether the stock should become the property
of the Cecil National Bank, free from the claim of the appellees, or should remain subject to the claim of the latter, was
equally indifferent to him, as in either event it served to pay
an equivalent amount of debt for which he was liable. It is

222

NATIONAL

BANK V. WATSONTOWN

BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

not alleged, and is not shown, that the appellants were aware
of Claxton's relation to the firm of Powell & Co., or of their
indebtedness to the bank whose officers they were, and there
is no ground for imputing fraud to, or suspecting collusion
with, them.
Our conclusion, therefore, is, as to this point, that the Watsontown Bank was lawfully represented by Claxton, its cashier, in this transaction, and is effectually bound by his acts.
It remains to consider the nature and effect of what was in
fact done.
A complete transfer of the title to the stock upon the books
of the bank, it is not doubted, would have the effect to vest it
in the transferee, free from any claim or lien of the bank.
The consent of the bank, made necessary to such transfer, is
the waiver of its right, as its refusal would be the assertion of
it. The transfer, when thus consummated, destroys the relation of membership between the corporation and the old stockholder, with all its incidents, and creates an original relation
with the new member, free from all antecedent obligations.
This legal relation and proprietary interest, on which it is
based, are quite independent of the certificate of ownership,
which is mere evidence of title. The complete fact of title
may very well exist without it. All that is necessary, when
the transfer is required by law to be made upon the books of
the corporation, is that the fact should be appropriately recorded in some suitable register or stock list, or otherwise formally entered upon its books. For this purpose the account
in a stock ledger, showing the names of the stockholders, the
number and amount of the shares belonging to each, and the
sources of their title, whether by original subscription and payment or by derivation from others, is quite suitable, and fully
meets the requirements of the law. Accordingly, when the
cashier of the Watsontown Bank received from Tome the certificate, with the authority for its transfer to him duly executed by Powell & Co., and, in pursuance of the request to make
the transfer, charged it in the account against the former
owner, and gave to Tome the corresponding credit, the latter
became a stockholder in the bank, invested with the legal
title to the stock, and with all the rights, powers, and privi-

Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL

BANK

V. WATSONTOWN BANK.

223

leges belonging to that character. Nothing more remained to
be done to make the conveyance of title complete and absolute,
and, so far as the bank was concerned, it was irrevocable. It
had consented to the transfer, and the transfer had been made.
Thenceforward the rights of Tome in respect to the stock in
question were all they could have been if it had belonged to
him by virtue of an original subscription. The claim of the
bank upon it, based upon the existing relation with the former owner, ceased when, with its consent and through its act,
that relation ceased.
The Cecil National Bank, then, had become the owner of
the legal title to the stock which Powell & Co. transferred,
and was entitled to demand recognition from the bank of its
rights as a stockholder, and to the customary certificate, as
evidence of its ownership.
On the supposition that not the legal title, but only an
equity, based on an executory contract for a transfer, passed to
the appellants, by virtue of the transaction with the cashier
of the Watsontown Bank, their right to the relief prayed for
is not less clear. Aside from the recognition of the title, as
complete, by accepting and acting upon the power of attorney
given by Tome to sell and transfer it as his stock, and the
sales made to the Scottsunder it, whose title is not denied, and
yet cannot be better than that of their vendor, which is disputed, the subsequent conduct of the Watsontown Bank raises
an equity against it, which is superior to its legal right to
insist upon a lien on account of the debt of Powell & Co.
When Tome made his claim on behalf of the Cecil National
Bank for a transfer of the stock, if the appellee had intended
to insist on its legal rights and assert its lien, then was the
proper time to do it; for it then, at least, had notice of tihe
interest and the claim of the appellants. If it had done so
promptly, the latter might still have had an opportunity to
obtain other security, or to enforce by other means their
claims against their debtors, who, although in default, do not
appear to have been as yet in extremnis. So far, however, from
adopting this course, the Watsontown Bank pursued one exactly the reverse. It permitted the parties by its actual exercise
to rest in the belief that their right to dispose of the stock for

WARREN V. STODDART,

[Sup. C[.

the purpose of paying the debt due them would not be questioned, until the failure and assignment of Powell & Co. made
any other resort useless; and, having induced them to alter
their condition by reliance upon assurances, which were equivalent to a declaration that it had no adverse claim, the appellee
cannot now be permitted to assert a lien, lost by its own
laches, and the enforcement of which would operate as a
fraud.
For these reasons, we conclude that the appellants are entitled to the relief sought by their bill, and that the decree, so
far as it denies it, must be reversed and the cause remanded
with instructions to modify the decree in accordance with this
opinion; and it is
So ordered.

WARREN V.

STODDART.

1. Where a party,. entitled to the benefit of a contract, can, at a trifling expense
and with reasonable exertions, save himself from a loss arising from a
breach of it, it is his duty to do so, and he can charge delinquents only
with such damages as with reasonable endeavor he could not prevent.
2. The contract between the parties (infrot, p. 225) construed. Held, that W. having put an end to it by canvassing on behalf of another party for a rival
edition of the same work, and cancelling the orders lie had obtained for S.'s
reprint, S. was not bound thereafter to furnish him with copies of the work
on credit.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Northern District of Illifiois.
Joseph M. Stoddart was a book publisher, carrying on business in the city of Philadelphia, under the name of J. M. Stoddart & Co. In 1878 he undertook to reprint and sell in the
United States a new edition, consisting of twenty-one volumes,
of the Encyclopmdia Britannica, which A. & C. Black, of
Edinburgh, Scotland, were then bringing out.
His plan was to sell the work by subscription only; the subscriptions were to be obtained by agents and canvassers, to

whom certain territory was to be allotted.

It was expected

