UPTON v. MCLAUGHLIN.

[Slip. Ct,

the demurrer to the fourth defence in the answer, and the defendant excepted to the ruling, the question as to whether the
petition was sufficient as a pleading was thereby brought up, because the District Court ought to have given judgment against
the party which committed the first fault in pleading. But
we are of opinion that the record must show that the question
as to whether it appeared by the petition that the action was
barred by the statute was distinctly presented to and raised before the District Court. This does not appear, as before stated.
The defendant also contends that various objections and
exceptions taken by him to the admission of evidence, and to
instructions to the jury, and various grounds of error stated in
the motion for a new trial, raised the question referred to.
It is sufficient to say that the objections to the admission of
evidence merely state that the evidence is incompetent, immaterial, and irrelevant, without suggesting the question of the
statute of limitation ; and that the exceptions to the instructions to the jury and the grounds of error set forth in the
motion for a new trial make no allusion to that question, nor is
there any allusion to it in the record sent from the District
Court. Under such circumstances the question cannot be raised
in the appellate court. Mays v. Fritton, 20 Wall. 414, and
cases there cited; Beaver v. Taylor, 93 U. S. 46; Wheeler v.
Sedgwick, 94 id. 1.
Because the Supreme Court of Wyoming held that the District Court had no jurisdiction of this suit, it did not examine
any of the questions raised by the defendant in the bill of exceptions taken by him. As it improperly reversed the judgment
of the District Court, its judgment must be reversed ; and as it
passed on no other question but the jurisdiction of the District
Court, the case must, under the provisions of sects. 701 and
702 of the Revised Statutes, be remanded to it, with directions
to hear and determine the questions raised by the petition in
error, and to take such further proceedings as may be in conformity with law and not inconsistent with the opinion of this
court; and it is
So ordered.
NOTE. - Upton v. Kent, error to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wyoming, was submitted at the same time as the preceding ease, and was argued by

Oct. 1881.]

Ex PAR E B OYD.

tile
same counsel for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Samuel Slclabarger and
Mr. Jeremiah 1. Wilson for the defendant in error.
MR.JUSTIcE BLATCIIFORD, in delivering the opinion of the court, remarked
that the facts and the questions raised were essentially the same in both cases.
The same judgment was entered in this case as in Upton v. McLaughlin.

Ex

PARTE BOYD.

1. A party in whose favor judpyment is rendered in a common-law cause, by a
court of the United States sitting in the State of New York, is, in order to
reach the property of the judgment debtor, entitled to the remedy provided
by the statute of that State, and known as proceedings supplementary to
execution.
2. Section 916 of the Revised Statutes which authorizes, as a natter of procedure,
the resort to that remedy is not in conflict with the Constitution.

PE'TItON for a writ of habeas Cor'pus.
The facts and the statutes bearing upon the question in-

volved are set out in the opinion of the court.
Mr, ]?oger M. Sherman for the peilitioner.

The Solicitor-General for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MATThEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

It is made to appear, by this application, that a judgment
was recovered in the Circuit Court fotr the Southern )istrict of
New York, in favor of the United States against Robert Bod,
the petitioner, and Francis O'Rourke, on which execution vas
issIed and returned unsatisfied, except in the sum of $200,
leaving due thereon il8,128.92. It was thereupon ordered by
the court, on motion of tle plaintiff's attorney, that the matter
be referred to Joseph M. Deuel, Esq., a commissioner of the
court, " to examine the said Robert Boyd and Francis O'Rouke,
and take answers on oath concerning their property, and to
reduce such answers and examination to writing, and also to
examine on oath, concerning such property, such witnesses as
may be offered by the respective parties, and reduce such examination to writing, and report such answers and examination,
and all his proceedings under and by virtue of this order, to this

