Oct. 1881.]

SIMMONS V. OGLE.

SIMMONS V.

OGLE.

1. Where, in a suit involving the right to lands, the equities of the respective
parties are equal, the legal title must prevail.
2. Against the United States the presumption of a party's claim of right to a
tract of public land, growing out of his mere possession of it, is but very
slight, and so long as the United States retains the legal title the Statute of
Limitations does not run against it, nor does any equity in his favor arise
from such possession and the non-assertion of that title.
3. A. recovered in ejectment possession of lands conveyed to him by the United
States. The judgment defendant thereupon filed his bill, setting up that
B., under whom lie claimed, had long previously to the inception of A.'s
title duly entered them at the proper office, and praying that A. be compelled
to convey the legal title to the complainant. Neither the receipt of the
receiver to B. for the purchase-money, nor the register's certificate of
purchase entitling B. to a patent, was produced or accounted for, and the
defendant's evidence strongly conduced to show that the papers never existed and that the sale was never made. Upon the facts, - Held, that the
bill should be dismissed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John IF. Ross and ME/r. Fran/klin A. MeConaughy for the
appellant.
Mr. James L. -D. Ifforrison for the appellee.

delivered the opinion of the court.
Simmons recovered, on the seventeenth day of January,
1878, a judgment in ejeetment against Ogle, for the possession
of the south half of the northeast quarter of section three,
township one north, of range nine west, in St. Clair County,
Illinois, and under the proper writ was placed in possession of
it. The title on which he recovered was a patent to himself
from the United States, dated June 12, 1874. Ogle thereupon
instituted the present suit in chancery to compel a conveyance
of the legal title thus established by Simmons to himself, on
the ground that he had a superior equity, by reason of which
the title in Simmons should be decreed to be held by him in
trust for the benefit of Ogle. After answer, replication, and a
full hearing on the evidence, the court granted the prayer of the
bill, and from that decree Simmons brings the present appeal.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER

272

SI

SONS V. OGLE.

[Sup. Ct.

There is much conflict in the testimony. Some parts of it
are irreconcilable, and the result of it in producing any very
clear conviction of the true state of the case is unsatisfactory,
especially in regard to the foundation of the right of coinplainant to be the true equitable owner of the land. The
fact which he takes upon himself to establish is that, on Dec.
30, 1835, one John Winstanley bought the land of the United
States, at the land-office in Edwardsville, and paid for it.
The subsequent conveyances and transfers from Winstanley to
Ogle are not controverted, and if the purchase and payment
now stated and alleged in the bill were satisfactorily established by the evidence, the decree should be affirmed.
The evidence by which this proposition is supported is of
two classes.
1. The records of the Edwardsville land-office, now found
in the General Land-Office at Washington, where they were
removed by law.
2. The conveyances and other proceedings by which, if
Winstanley ever had any right, it became vested in Ogle, and
the actual possession of the land by Ogle.
As regards the first of these, the records of the Edwardsville land-office show a written application by Wiustanley at
that office, on the thirtieth day of December, 1835, for the
purchase of the land. It is numbered 13,164, and shows the
quantity of the land to be 84.46 acres, and the price to be paid
$1.25 per acre.
There is, also, an entry on the books of the office, of which
the following is a copy, and which is photographed in the
record: "No. 13,164.
"Dec. 30, 1835, to John Winstanley, of St. Clair County, State
of Illinois, for S. NE. - section No. 3, township No. 1 north, range
No. 9 west of the third principal meridian, containing 84,406, acres,
at $1.25 per acre. $105.57.
"S. 11. Tol[PsoN, Rleyistcr."
These, it is said, being the original entries made in the records of the local land-office, are sufficient evidence of the purchase and payment for that land by Winstanley, and that no

Oct. 1881.]

SIMMONS

V. OGLE.

successful contradiction of them is found anywhere. When to
this is added the conveyance by Winstanley to William C.
Anderson of the same land, in 1837, and that Anderson's title
came to Ogle, who, in 1851, took possession of the land and
held it until his removal under the action of ejectment brought
by Simmons against him, the case of complainant is substantially stated.
As regards the weight to be given to the possession of Ogle,
it is to be considered that whether he had the equitable right
or not, neither the Statute of Limitations nor the equitable doctrine of lapse of time could begin to have effect against any
one until Simmons purchased of the United States and obtained his patent in 1874, for up to that time the legal title
was undeniably in the United States. If this had not been so
Ogle would have successfully pleaded the Statute of Limitations against Simmons in the action at law. No laches coild
be imputed to Simmons, who brought suit very soon after he
received his patent. Nor can laches be imputed to the United
States, either as a matter of law or on any moral or equitable
principles. For so common is it for squatters and trespassers
to settle on the lands of the United States, and so indulgent
are the laws in encouraging such settlements, and so numerous
are these settlements without claim of right, and such is the
impossibility of resisting or ejecting the settlers, or of efficiently
asserting the right of possession by the government, that the
weight of the inference in favor of any claim of right, whether
legal or equitable, against the United States, growing out of
mere possession, is very slight indeed.
Nor do the sale and conveyance by Winstanley to Anderson afford any legal evidence of his right to do so, and very
little that he believed himself to have such right. He could
never be made responsible for more than the purchase-money,
and, knowing what entries were on the books of the local landoffice, he might well be willing to take the money and the
chances. The evidence, therefore, in support of the entries on
the books of the land-office do not add greatly to its force, and the
complainant's case must rest on the intrinsic probability arising
from those two pieces of evidence, that Winstanley bought and
paid for the land.
VOL. XV.

18

SIMMONS V. OGLE.

[Sup. Ct,

If either of these entries had stated the purchase and payment in words, they are open to the weakness which arises
from the fact that in all such completed sales two other docu.
ments of superior probative force usually attend the sale, one
of them invariably, neither of which is here produced or shown
ever to have existed. The most conclusive of these is the
patent. There is no pretence here that any patent ever issued
to any one on Winstanley's purchase. It is proved that he was
a careful business man, much accustomed to dealing in lands,
and as he had sold this land, and made himself liable by awarranty deed, he would naturally have made that title secure by
procuring the issue of the patent.
It is, however, well known that early purchasers of the public
lands were careless about their patents. But as a reason for
this, they attached primary importance to the paper issued
when a sale was made, and delivered to the purchaser by the
register and receiver of the land-office, called a certificate of
entry.
This is a paper in two parts, the first of which is signed by
the register, giving a description of the land, the amount paid
for it, the name of the purchaser, and a statement that on its
presentation at the General Land-Office a patent would be
issued to the purchaser. The second, signed by the receiver, is
a simple receipt for the payment of the price, and a description
of the land for which it was paid.
The statutes of almost every State and Territory in which
the public lands have been sold provide for the registration of
this instrument, and in all actions concerning title or possession
declare it to be prima facie evidence of title. See Hurd's Rev.
Stat. of Illinois, sect. 31, c. 30, p. 271, and sect. 20, c. 51,
p. 508. In the estimation of the people generally, and in the
practice of the courts, it became the efficient substitute or
equivalent of the patent, and in regard to millions of acres of
land the patent either was never issued, or if issued never delivered, but remains in the local or the general land-office, subject
to the call of the owner.
In the case before us there is no evidence whatever, except
presumption, that this certificate of entry ever had an existence.
In the absence of the patent, it is the instrument of all others

Oct. 1881.]

SIMMONS V. OGLE.

which it is important to produce, or if it cannot be produced,
to account for its loss.
The only effort to do this is an affidavit of Ogle, that he
went down to John Winstanley's and examined through all
his papers and did not find it. He wrote to the son of Anderson, to whom Winstanley sold it, who replied that he could
find no paper of the kind. He went to the Commercial Bank
of Cincinnati, which at one time had a mortgage on the land.
They said a majority of the papers of the bank had been
burned. So he failed to get the certificate, or any information
about it. "I do not know where it is, nor have I ever seen
it," he says.
This would have been sufficient to authorize the introduction of a copy in evidence, if any copy existed. But no copy
is produced, for the reason that no human being has been
found who can say that any such paper ever existed, or was
When we consider the number of
ever seen by any one.
persons interested in the property through Winstanley, there
being several mortgages and intervening conveyances between
hitn and Ogle, and that the certificate of entry, if ever made,
could only have been forty years old when this suit was
brought; that many persons must have been alive who had
been interested in the title; this total absence of all evidence
of its existence, no one ever having seen it, nor any copy of
it, nor any record of it under the Recording Acts of Illinois,
-the
inference that such a paper was made and delivered to
Winstanley is very much shaken.
When we turn to the evidence of defendant there is much
positive testimony to convince us that no such paper was ever
delivered, and no such sale ever made.
There are in pencil mark on the page where the application
of Winstanley for this land, numbered 13,164, is found, the
following words: " 13,164. Changed to NE. j of NW. 1, 9,
2, N. 9, W. 3d."
The transactions of the local land-offices are forwarded regularly to the General Land-Office at Washington, and accurate
copies or duplicates are there found of all the transactions in the
local offices, and in the present case the original records of the
Edwardsville office, long since closed up, are in the General
Land-Office.

SIMMONS V. OGLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Among these are found the following: "No. 13,164.

LAND-OFFICE AT EDWARDSVILLE, ILL.,

" December 30, 1835.
"It is hereby certified that, in pursuance of law, John Winstanley, of St. Clair County, Illinois, on this day purchased of the register of this office the lot or west half of the northwest quarter of
section number nine, of township nnmber two north, in range nuinher nine west of the third principal meridian, containing eighty
hundredths of an acre, at the rate of one dollar and
acres and
twenty-five cents per acre, amounting to one hundred dollars
cents, for which the said John Winstanley has made payment in
fill as required by law.
"Now, therefore, be it known that on presentation of this certificate to the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, the said
John Winstanley shall be entitled to receive a patent for the lot
above described.
'IS. H. THOMPSON, Picegister.

REcEIVEL's

"No. 13,164.

OFFICE, EDWARDSVILLE, ILL.,

" Dcenber 30, 1835.
"Received from John Winstanley, of St. C1hir County, Ills., the
cents, being in full for the west
sum of one hundred dollars and
half of the northwest quarter of. section number nine, township nunber two north, range number nine west of the third principal meridian, containing eighty acres and 100,at the rate of $1.25 per acre.
" 75 B. U. States
"25 Specie.

" $100.
" $100

"B. F. EDWARDS, Receiver,
"By W:L. 11. II)Eit."

It will be observed that this certificate of entry bears date
the same day of Winstanley's application for the other piece
of land. That it bears the same serial number as that application throughout, up to the issue of the patent, which is very
important, as though it is possible Winstanley might have
entered two pieces of land on the same day, they would necessarily have been separate entries and would not have borne the
same number.
Upon this certificate No. 13,164 there was issued on the
second day of December, 1839, to John Winstanley a patent

Oct. 1881.]

SIIMONS

v. OGLE.

for the land there described; for the otbr land no patent
was ever issued to him.
Anothcr circumstance confirming the truth of the pencil
memorandum is found in the cash-book or register of receivers'
receipts at Edwardsville, now on file in the General Land-Office. In that book, which is kept in tabular form, it is shown
that on Dec. 30, 1835, on certificate No. 13,164, there was
paid to the receiver, by John Winstanley $100, for the W.
NW. 3, S. 9, T. 2, R. 9, 80 acres; and as the transcript is cornplete for that day no other receipt of money from Winstanley
is shown. The quarterly account of the receiver with the
department shows precisely the same thing.
So that we here have the evidence of these records that
Winstanley bought and paid for another piece of land on that
day, under cover of the same No. 13,164 as to application and
entry; that the price was $100, and not $105.46; that no certificate of entry is known to have ever been made for the tract
first applied for, no evidence that any money was paid for it,
no entry on the cash-book or quarterly account of the receiver
of the amount for which the land in controversy could only
have been sold ; but ample evidence that on that same day,
and under the same entry number, Winstanley bought and
paid for another piece of land near by, at the same office, for
which he received the usual certificate of entry, and for which
the patent was issued.
We cannot resist the conclusion, in the presence of what is
positively shown by the records, and what is wanting in the
evidence of complainant in regard to the existence of a certificate of entry of this land, that the pencil memorandum whenever it was made is true, that on the same day, and before the
purchase was finally completed, Winstanley changed his purpose, and bought and paid for the other piece of land, and that
the officers onitted to make the requisite change in the application while making the transfer and preserving the original
number.
If, however, this were not so clear, the appellant here has
the legal title and the possession, without fraud or any unfairness. He found the land subject to entry by the records of the
land-office, and he bought and paid for it and has the title. In

LOUISIANA V. PILSBU[SY.

[Sup. Ct.

such case the maxim applies in all its force, that better is the
condition of the defendant. The equities of the parties being
equal, the legal title must prevail.
Instead of the weak case made by appellee, the position of
affairs required him to make clear and satisfactory proof of his
superior equity. This he has signally failed to do.
Decree reversed, and cause remanded with directions to

dismiss the bill.

LOUISIANA V. PILSBURY.
1. The act of the General Assembly of the State of Louisiana, of Feb. 23, 1852,
entitled "An Act to consolidate the city of New Orleans, and to provide for
the government and administration of its affairs," is not in conflict with
article 118 of the State Constitution of 1845, which declares that "every
law enacted by the legislature shall embrace but one object, and that shall
be expressed in the title." Nor does section 37 of the act (infra, p. 2791
violate article 127 of that Constitution (infra, p. 290), touching equality and.
uniformity of taxation.
2. That article applied only to State taxes, and required that all the property on
which they were levied - not all property in the State - should be taxed
according to its value, and conformably to some fixed rate or mode.
3. By accepting the bonds which were issued under that section, and the supple.
mentary'act passed the same day, known as No. 72, and which formed the
consolidated debt of New Orleans, the creditors of the city, of the municipalities, and of Lafayette entered into a contract with the city, an essential
part whereof was the pledge to levy an annual tax of a specified amount
for the payment of interest and principal. Although slavery has been
abolished, the obligation of the city to raise the required fund by special
tax on real estate remains, and the right of the bond-holders to enforce it is
not waived by having received for years without objection the stipulated
interest raised in another mode than that for which the contract provides.
4. The act of the General Assembly of Louisiana of March 6, 1876, so far as it
relates to the consolidated debt, is null and void, inasmuch as it provides
for exchanging the debt for premium bonds, each of the denomination of
twenty dollars, dated Sept. 1, 1875, the principal and interest to be paid
at a time to be determined by chance in a lottery, and prohibits the levying
of the stipulated tax to pay the interest due upon that debt. It also
attempts to deprive the creditor of the means of enforcing payment which
existed when the debt was contracted, and it furnishes no other adequate
remedy.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.

This was a petition of the State of Louisiana, on the relation

