LEIINBEUTER

V. IIOLTHAUS.

[Sup. Ct.

of the railroad company, and from it, or from the income to be
derived therefrom, obtain satisfaction of the judgments against
the corporation. Whether that suit was or not, under the act
of Congress, legally removed into the Federal court, the entire
property, we have seen, passed lawfully into the custody of
the latter court, and by proceedings therein, to which the
judgment creditors were parties, and by which they are concluded- it has been all sold, and the proceeds adjudged to be
rightfully distributed in satisfaction of the mortgage debt. It
would, consequently, serve no valuable purpose for the appellants, were it now decided that the suit commenced in the State
court was not legally removed into the Federal court, or that
the order of Jan. 17, 1879, was beyond the power of that court
to make.
The decrees appealed from are, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not sit in this case, nor take any

part in deciding it.

LEFINBEUTER V. HOLTHAUS.
1. Letters-patent granted by the United States are, as against an infringer, prima
facie evidence of the novelty and utility of the device or invention for which

they were granted.
2. Letters-patent No. 8814, granted Nov. 30, 1875, to Joseph Leinbeuter and
Casper Claes for a design for show-cases are valid.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The bill, filed by Joseph Lehnbeuter and Casper Claes,
charged Arnold Holthaus and Anton Holthaus with infringing design patent No. 8814 for show-cases, granted to the
complainants jointly, and dated Nov. 30, 1875.
The answer denied that the complainants were the first
inventors of the design patented; denied its utility, and the
alleged infringement. To sustain these denials all the testimony offered by the defendants was directed.

Oct. 1881.]

LEHNBEUTER

v. IIOLTHUS.

Upon final hearing the court dismissed the bill, because
"said letters-patent were not good and valid in law," and the
complainants appealed.
The record contains certain stipulations in respect to the
evidence. These are: " That the following exhibits may be produced by either
party at the hearing upon an appeal in the Supreme Court,
and used in evidence as a portion of the transcript herein, viz.:
'Defendants' Exhibit, Wiegal Catalogue,' and 'Defendants
Exhibit, Maws' Price Current;' also, 'Design Patents Nos.
8287, 8813, and 8814;' also, 'Complainants' Exhibit Holthaus Circular.'
" That it shall be taken, as admitted for the purposes of this
case, that said exhibits, ' Wiegal Catalogue' and I Maws' Price
Current,' were issued prior to January, 1874.
" That the circular marked ' Complainants' Exhibit Holthaus
Circular' is a copy of circulars issued by the defendants in the
month of July, 1877, and subsequently thereto; that the cuts
therein correctly represent show-cases made and sold by the defendants in St. Louis, within said Eastern District of Missouri,
during and after January, 1877, and before the commencement
of this suit, and still made and sold by them; also, that the
circular marked ' Complainants' Exhibit Claes & Co., Circular,' is a copy of a publication issued and circulated by coinplainants in the month of September, 1875, and subsequently
thereto; also, that the model marked on bottom ' Complainants' Exhibit Model No. 1,' under the hand of the same notary,
correctly represents show-cases made and sold by defendant in
said St. Louis during and after the month of January, 1877,
and before the commencement of these suits."
The only witness in the case was Charles K. Pickles, who
testified for the complainants that he made the original drawings from which the plates were made of the cuts 33, 34, and
36 of the Holthaus circular; that he made the drawings for
Holthaus, the defendant, who gave him cuts from Claes & Co.'s
circular, from which to make the plates or prints, and that
there were slight changes suggested by Holthaus, which the
witness followed in making the drawings.
The Wiegal Catalogue, Maws' Price Current, the Holthaus

LEIINBEUTrIM

V. tIOLTHAUS.

[Sup. Ct.

Circular, and the design patents, numbered respectively 8287,
881.3, and 8814, with their drawings, the first granted to Joseph
Lehnbeuter, and the other two to Lehnbeuter and Claes, the
complainants, were put in evidence. The one last named was
that on which this suit was brought.
Mr. Robert I- Parkinson for the appellants.
There was no opposing counsel.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
A comparison of the drawing which is appended to patent
No. 8814, with cut No. 34 of the Holthaus Circular, which
it is admitted represents show-eases manufactured and sold by
the defendants, during and since January, 1877, makes it clear
that the latter is a servile copy of the former, excepting a slight
inclination backwards, hardly perceptible to the naked eye, of
the glass constituting the front of the elevated portions of the
case. We think, therefore, that the infringement is clearly
established.
The attempt to prove that the complainants were not the
first inventors of the design covered by their letters-patent has
entirely failed. The only evidence offered on this branch of
the defence are the publications designated as Maws' Price
Current and the Wiegal Catalogue. The first of these bears
date in 1869, and the latter in 1872. After a careful search
through both, we have been unable to find any design for a
show-case which remotely resembles that described in the
complainants' patent.
The design patented by the complainants differs essentially
from any other which has been called to our attention. 'It is
not covered by the other patents which are set out in the record. Whether it is more graceful or beautiful than older designs is not for us to decide. It is sufficient if it is new and
useful.
The patent is prima facie evidence of both novelty and utility, and neither of these presumptions has been rebutted by
the evidence. On the contrary, they are strengthened. No
anticipation of the design is shown, although the attempt has
been made to prove anticipation. The fact that it has been

Oct. 1881.]

UNITED) STATES

v. TEMPLE.

infringed by defendants, is sufficient to establish its utility,
at least as against them. Whitney v. Mowry, 4 Fish. Pat.
Rep. 207.
Our conclusion is that the complainants have a valid patent
which the defendants have infringed. The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing their bill must, therefore, be reversed, and
the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion ; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not sit in this

case, nor take any

part in deciding it.

UNITED STATES

v. TEMPLE.

An officer of the navy, while engaged in public business, travelled by land and sea
under orders, the travel by sea not being in a public vessel of the United
States. Held, that under the act of June 30, 1876, c. 159 (19 Stat. 65), be is
entitled to mileage for the whole distance travelled.

from the Court of Claims.
This was an action brought in the Court of Claims by
Temple, a commodore in the United States navy, to recover
mileage for travel under orders.
The controversy arises upon the construction of an act of
Congress. The history of our legislation on the subject of
mileage to officers of the navy is as follows: The act of March
3, 1835, c. 27 (4 Stat. 756), after giving certain pay, &c., to
officers of the navy, declares in the second section that they
shall be entitled to no other compensation, but with an exception, thus stated: " Except for travelling expenses while under
orders, for which ten cents per mile shall be allowed."
This provision was abrogated by a clause in the act of June
16, 1874, c. 285 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 72), which is as follows: " That only actual travelling expenses shall be allowed
to any person holding employment or appointment under the
United States, and all allowances for mileages and transportation in excess of the amount actually paid are hereby declared
illegal."
APPEAL

VOL. XV.

7

