GUIDET v. BROOKLYN.

GUIDET

v.

[Sup. CL.

BROOKLYN.

Reissued letters-patent No. 4106, bearing date Aug. 23, 1870, granted to Charles
Guidet for an improved stone pavement, are void, as before his application
there were in use pavements consisting of rough blocks of the same form,
and arranged in substantially the same way, as that described in his specification. His claim is for rougher side surfaces than those found in the old paveinents, although he does not state the degree of roughness required, and the
change being only in degree, is not patentable.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of New York.
This is a bill in equity, filed Jan. 29, 1874, by Charles
Guidet, against the city of Brooklyn, wherein he alleges that
the defendant was then making and using a stone pavement which, in whole or in part, was substantially the same
in construction and operation as that for which reissued
letters-patent No. 4106, bearing date Aug. 23, 1870, were
granted to him. The prayer of the bill is for an injunction
and account.
The answer of the city denies the alleged infringement of the
letters, and sets up that the pavement, which is their subjectmatter, was, with Guidet's knowledge and consent, in public
use for more than two years before the date of his original application, and that he was not the original and first inventor of
it, the same having before that date been described in various
publications, and publicly used in certain specified localities of
a number of cities in the United States.
Upon final hearing the court dismissed the bill, and Guidet
appealed here. The remaining facts are stated in the opinion
of the court.

Mr. George Harding for the appellant.
Mr. William 0. De Witt and Mr. George Gifford for the
appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The invention of Guidet covered by his reissued patent
may fairly be stated thus: "Take stone blocks in the form of

Oct. 1881.]

GUIDET V. BROOKLYN.

parallelopipeds, with the ends sufficiently smooth, and the sides
sufficiently rough, and put themn together in a street pavement
so that the ends will be parallel to the street, and the sides at
right angles." How large the blocks should be, how smooth
the ends, or how rough the sides, is nowhere stated. All
that is left to the judgment and skill of him who does the
work.
The evidence leaves no doubt whatever in our minds that
pavements made of blocks of stone broken into the general
form of parallelopipeds, and set on edge with their ends parallel to the street, and their sides across it, were in use long before
the date of Guidet's invention. This is conceded, in fact, both
in the original patent and the reissue; for in the original it is
said, " I do not claim broadly, as my invention, a pavement
composed of blocks made in the form of parallelopipeds ; " and
in the reissue, " I am aware that pavements have been produced of blocks made in the form of parallelopipeds." The
difficulty had been, undoubtedly, that the spaces between the
sides of the blocks, in ordinary use before his invention, were
not sufficient to furnish a firm foothold for draught animals,
especially after the surfaces had been worn smooth. How to
remedy this defect was the problem to be solved. Formerly
it had been done, as is said in the reissued patent, by interposing between the adjoining blocks thin strips of wood or stone.
As a substitute for this, lie chamfered the edges of the broad
sides, and thus got the advantage of placing the blocks close
against each other, and keeping the pavement firm while he
secured on the surface the necessary open Joint to furnish a
good foothold. That, as it seem to us, was all there was of
his invention, and we are by no means inclined to hold it was
not patentable to him. By taking the block of stone in ordinary use, and substituting the chanfered edge on the broad
side for the narrow strip of wood or stone, he got the space
needed for the joint, and he solidified the pavement by bringing firmly together the stones that furnished the surface to be
used for travel.
But after he had obtained his patent, lie seems to have found
that, by selecting blocks sufficiently rough on their sides, the
joints could be made open enough for all practical purposes

GUIDET V. BROOKLYN.

[Sup. Ct.

without chamfering, and so in his reissue he abandoned that
feature of his patent, and claimed for rough side surfaces only.
In this way, as it seems to us, he left the field of invention,
and entered that of miechanical skill only. Pavements of
stone in the form of parallelopipeds being confessedly old, he
has really done no more than suggest the best kind of stone to
be used in that way. The pavements in Rochester and Buffalo, which it is agreed antedated his invention, were laid in
all substantial respects like his. The quality of the stone was
different, and the side surfaces were comparatively smoother
than his, though to some extent they were rough. He, as has
already been seen, does not say what degree of rouginess is
required. The effect of his specification and claim is, that if
blocks are selected with their sides rough enough, joints can
be made that will furnish a suitable foothold without the use
of strips, and without chamfering. It is true that in Rochester and Buffalo sand may have been used to some extent to
keep the blocks apart, but that was only another way of doing
what it is agreed had been done before. What he did was to
show that if stone were used with rougher side surfaces than
those found in the old pavements, all artificial means of keeping
the transverse joints open might be abandoned, and the requisite
surface secured. This was simply carrying forward the old idea,
and doing what had been done before in substantially the same
way, but with better results. The change was only in degree,
and consequently not patentable. Clearly the reissued patent
cannot be sustained.
Decree affirmed.

