Oct. 1881.]

MANCHESTER V. ERIcssoN.

MANCHESTER v.

ERICSSON.

It is error to withdraw from the jury the determination of a disputed fact in
issue. So held, where, in a suit against a city for damages sustained by a
party who fell at night from a causeway erected within the city limits by an
incorporated bridge company, but whieh was not provided with a proper
guard or protection, although it extended from the company's bridge to the
level of a street, the question of fact as to whether the city bad treated the
causeway as a street, and assumed such a control of the locus in quo as to
incur a liability for its condition, was withdrawn from the jury, and the court
instructed them that if the injury was caused by the absence of such a guard
or protection the city was liable.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Virginia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Clristopher C. McRae and Mr. William A. Maury for
the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles V. Meredith and Mr. George K. Macon for the
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Ericsson recovered a judgment against the city of Manchester,
Virginia, for injuries received by a fall from a public way,
of which the city had been negligent, in regard to protecting
the sides of a high embankment. The laws of the State
authorize a recovery in such a case.
The chief controversy on the trial was whether the city or
a bridge company was responsible for the condition of the
street in such a manner as to incur liability for negligence in
the care of it. That part of it where the accident occurred
constituted also the approach to a bridge across the James
River, between Manchester and Richmond, and both the bridge
and this approach to it had been built, at least nominally, by
an incorporated company called the James River Bridge Company, and the contention of the defendant below was that this
corporation, and not the city, was the responsible party.
That point was much pressed in argument before us, and it
seemed to be assumed that if the company was liable, the city

MANCHESTER

v.

ERICSSON.

[Sup. Ct.

was not. We do not think that this necessarily follows, for
the company may be liable for negligence in regard to the locus
in quo as an approach to and part of their bridge, while the
city may also be liable for like negligence regarding it as a
street for the care of which it is responsible. The question in
this case is whether the city is liable.
This depends, in our opinion, not so much on the question
whether the place where the injury occurred was, by law, placed
under the exclusive control of the city, as whether the city
authorities had so far assumed the care of it as one of the
streets of the town as to incur an obligation to be diligent and
watchful in the performance of that duty.
The judge, in his charge to the jury, attached much importance to the fact that the bridge was built by money advanced
by Richmond and Manchester, and assumed that the company
was a mere matter of form, and though chartered by the legislature, was only an agency of the two municipal corporations
to connect them by a bridge spanning the river which runs
between them.
We are not satisfied of the soundness of this view, though it
appears that the two cities owned all the stock and advanced
the money. It still remains that the company was the legal
entity which owned the bridge ; that if it had borrowed money,
or created debts, the cities would not have been liable for them
without an express agreement to that effect. And if the negligence by which plaintiff suffered was solely the negligence of
the bridge company and its officers, the city of Manchester
would not have been liable because of the stock held by it in
the company or the money advanced to it.
But testimony was submitted to the jury tending to show
that after the bridge and this approach to it had been built,
or commenced, the limits of the city of Manchester had been
extended so as to include this part of the bridge or approach,
and that the city did work on it as a street, or extension of the
street into which it ran, and in many ways assumed such control of it as it did of other streets.
This testimony is in the record, and was proper evidence to
sustain the proposition that the city authorities had so acted
in regard to this part of the highways of the city as to make it

Oct. 1881.]

MANCHESTER

v. ERICssoN.

responsible for a more careful attention to the dangerous condition of it than was given by them.
The counsel of defendant prayed several instructions in regard to the sufficiency of this evidence, which was refused by
the court, and instead of those asked it gave the following: "There are three questions for the jury, namely: "1st, Whether a proper guard or protection had been provided at the point where the accident to the plaintiff occurred
if there was not "2d, Whether the accident was in consequence of the absence
of such proper guard or protection ; and,
" 3d, If so, whether damage ensued to the plaintiff, and what
amount of money shall be allowed as the measure of damage to
him.
1 If the jury believe from the evidence that a proper guard
or protection to the highway was not provided, that the accident occurred in consequence, and that damage ensued to the
plaintiff from the accident, then the court instructs the jury
that the city of Manchester is liable for the damage, unless it
proves that the plaintiff sustained his injury through his own
negligence or want of care."
It will be seen that the court here takes from the jury
entirely the question whether the city was responsible for the
want of the guard or protection which was absent, and instructs
them peremptorily that if such protection was wanting, and the
accident was caused by its absence, the city was liable.
We think it was for the jury to decide whether the city had
made itself responsible.
The evidence on this subject had been properly submitted to
the jury. Whether the city had assumed such control of the
locus in quo as to make it responsible was an inference of fact
to be drawn from all the testimony by the jury, and not a
question of law for the court.
This evidence consisted of various things done by order of
the authorities of the city of Manchester, such as paying the
money on condemnation of the land for the use of the bridge,
regulating the grade of the approach to the bridge and of
the neighboring streets, continuing the )avement of the street
into and upon this ap)roach, depositing cinders on it, building

INSURANCE Co. v. FOLEY.

[Sup.

CL'.

a fence on the side of it, and otherwise expending money
on it.
In our opinion, though strongly persuasive of the proposition
that the city had assumed charge of the place, the evidence
was not necessarily conclusive. The inference was one of fact
and not of law, and was to be made, if at all, by the jury,
under such proper instructions on the matter as the court
should give, and not by the court alone. It was a mixed question of law and fact, proper for the jury, aided by the court.
For this error the judgment of the Circuit Court will be
reversed, and the case remanded with instructions to set aside
the verdict and grant a new trial ; and it is
So ordered.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. FOLEY.

1. When sued upon a life policy, the company set up that in applying for it the
insured did not make true answers to questions touching his habits. The
evidence in regard to them was conflicting. The court refused to charge
the jury that when "witnesses testify, from their own knowledge of the
party and his habits, that lie was not of temperate habits, their testimony
is entitled to greater consideration by a jury than witnesses who testify
otherwise, because they have not seen or known of such habits as are testified to by those who declare that lie was not a person of temperate riabits."
Held, that the refusal was proper.
2. If the habits of the insured in the usual, ordinary, and every-day routine of
his life were temperate, his representations that lie was and always had
been a man of temperate habits were not untrue, within the meaning of the
policy, although lie may have had rn attack of delirium treniens from an
exceptional over-indulgence.

EIROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
In January, 1872, Foley obtained from the Knickerbocker
Life Insurance Company of the city of New York a policy of
insurance for $5,000, on the life of one Badenhop, his debtor
to that amount. The premium required at the time and the
stipulated annual premiums were paid. The profits arising
upon them entitled the assured, in May, 1878, to a further
insurance on the life of his debtor, to the amount of $36.03;

