COUNTY O1,' AOULTtZIE

V. FAIlMIELD.

[Sup. CL.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
FIELD, dissenting.

I dissent from this judgment, because I understand that no
statute shall be held to grant exemption from taxation unless

its language imperatively requires it.
I do not think that the language of the statute under which
the exemption is claimed in this case requires that all property acquired by the institution after the passage of the act
shall be exempted, especially in regard to a cotton-picking
machine, which can only be of value as it is used in a business
operation in competition with others who must pay heavy
taxes.

COUNTY OF MOULTRIE V.

FAIRFIELD.

1. The charter of the Decatur, Sullivan, and Mattoon Railroad Company, which
took effect March 26, 1869, authorized the board of supervisors of the
county of Moultrie, Illinois, to subscribe to the capital stock of that corpany to an amount not exceeding 580,000, and also, should it be sanctioned
by a popular vote, to make a donation in aid of the company, and in each
case to issue the requisite amount of county bonds..
2. Where, before the adoption of the Constitution of Illinois of 1870, a donation
in aid of a railroad company had, pursuant to law, been voted by a county,
bpnds to pay that donation might be thereafter issued.
3. That vote cannot b held for naught, although in the notice of, and the
petition "for, the election at which it was cast the company is misnamed,
if it sufficiently appears that the company was meant.
4. In this case the power to levy a tax was conferred, the company performed
all the conditions which, by the vote cast Nov. 2, 1869, entitled it to receive
the donation bonds, and they were delivered Nov. 1, 1871, reciting the law
authorizing their issue. Held, that, in a suit by a bon .fide holder of the
coupons cut therefrom, a recovery cannot be defeated upon the ground that,
in order to pay the principal and interest and the county expenses, the
assessment must exceed the limitation imposed by sect. 8, art. 9, of the
Constitution of 1870.
.5. Qumere, Is there any limit upon the power of taxation to raise means to meet
the indebtedness of which the bonds in question are the evidence.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
This action was brought by Fairfield against the county of
M'oultrie, upon the common counts, for money lent, money had

Oct. 1881.]

COUNTY OF MOULTRIE

v. FAIRFIELD.

and received, and money due on account stated, with notice
that he would give in evidence coupons detached from certain bonds of the county issued in satisfaction of its respective
donations in aid of the Bloomington and Ohio River Railroad
Company, and the Decatur, Sullivan, and Mattoon Railroad
Company. Plea, non assumpsit, under which, by agreement,
the county was allowed to offer any evidence and make any
defence that would be competent under any special plea well
pleaded. The parties submitted the issues of fact as well as
of law'to the court; and a special finding of facts was made,

upon which judgment in his favor was rendered, to reverse
which the county brought this writ of error.
facts are set forth in the opinion of this court.

The 'material

Mr. John P. Eden for the plaintiff in error.
Mir. Shelby Al. Cullom and Mr. E. S. lailey for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.

We shall first consider the objections raised by the plaintiff in error to the recovery upon the bonds of the county
of Moultrie issued to the Decatur, Sullivan, and Mattoon
Railroad Company. The charter of this company took effect
March 26, 1869. The ninth section provides as follows :
" The several incorporated towns, cities, counties, and towns
organized under the township organization law, along or near
the route of said road, or that are in any way interested
therein, may, in their corporate cnpacitics, subscribe to the
stock of said company or make donations thereto to aid in
constructing or equipping said railroad." Then follows a proviso making subscriptions to the stock and donations conditional upon a vote of the people and prescribing the mode of
holding elections, &c.
Section 10 declares: "The board of supervisors of Moultrie
County are hereby authorized to subscribe to the capital stock
of said company to an amount not exceeding eighty thousand
dollars, and to issue the bonds of the county therefor, bearing
interest at a rate not exceeding ten per cent per annum, said
bonds to be issued in such denominations and to mature at
such time as said board of supervisors may determine: Pro.

COUNTY

OF MOULTRIE

V. FAIRFIELD.

[Sup. Ct.

vided, that the same shall not be issued until said road shall
be opened for traffic between the city of Decatur and the town
of Sullivan aforesaid."
It appears from the records of the board of supervisors, as
stated in the findings of the court, that on Nov. 2, 1869, an
election was held according to law in the county, at which a
majority of the votes cast was in favor of a proposition' to
donate to the company the sum of $75,000, to be paid in the
bonds of the county when the road should be completed and
in running order through it; and that, in pursuance of the
vote, the board, Dec. 19, 1869, passed an order that there be
donated by the county to the company the sum of $75,000,
and that when the road should be completed through the
county there be issued and delivered to the company the
bonds to that amount payable in ten years, in satisfaction of
such donation ; and that on Nov. 1, 1871, the chairman of the
board of supervisors and the clerk of the county issued and
delivered to the company seventy-five bonds of $1,000 each in
.satisfaction of the donation. These bonds recite on their face
that they are " issued by said county of Moultrie by virtue of
a vote of a majority of the legal voters of said county voting at
an election held in said county of Moultrie on the second day
of November, 1869, which election was authorized by, and conditioned according to the provisions of, an act of the General
Assembly of the State of Illinois, approved March 26, 1869,
entitled an act to incorporate the Decatur, Sullivan, and Mattoon Railroad Company."
The court further found that Fairfield was a bona fide purchaser for value before maturity of the bonds issued to the
company, from which the coupons offered in evidence were
detached.
The facts above stated as found by the court, and the authority conferred by the charter of the company to issue the
bonds, establish prima facie their validity and the right of
Fairfield to recover.
The county insists, however, that there are other facts set
forth in the findings which show the invalidity of the bonds.
These are that, at the December special term, 1869, of the
board of supervisors of Moultrie County, an order was passed

Oct. 1881.]

COUNTY

OF MOULTIHE V. FAIRFIELD.

that the county subscribe to the capital stock of the company,
by authority of sect. 10 of its charter, above recited, the sum
of $80,000 ; that said subscription was then and there made;
and that on Dec. 31, 1872, the road being then open for traffic
between Decatur and Sullivan, the bonds of the county were
issued and delivered to the company in payment of its subscription of stock.
The contention of counsel for the county is that the board of
supervisors having, in December, 1869, subscribed to the capital stock of the company the sum of $80,000, by authority of
sect. 10 of the charter of the company, it had given all the
aid to the railroad company which the law authorized. In
other words, it is insisted that the county could not subscribe
the full amount of stock authorized by sect. 10, and also
make a donation under sect. 9 ;' that it could only do one of
these two things. The inference which is drawn from this
position is that the bonds issued in satisfaction of the donation,
voted for by the people of the county and subscribed by the
board of supervisors, were issued without autthority, and are,
therefore, void.
We cannot, for several reasons, concur in his views. First,
it is conceded that the board could either subscribe any sum
not exceeding $80,000 to the stock of the company, under sect.
10 of its charter, and issue the bonds of the county in payniet thereof, or it could inake a donation, under sect. 9 of the
charter, of any amount which had been voted for by the voters
of the county, and issue the bonds of the county in satisfaction
thereof. As the county sets up as matter of defence against
the donation bonds issued to the company, the fact that a subscription of stock had also been made, in payment of which the
county had issued its bonds, it stands it in hand to show that
the obligation of the county to issue bonds in payment of its
subscription antedated its obligation to issue bonds to satisfy
its donation. This the findings fail to show. They do not
show which was first voted by the board, the donation or the
subscription. They do show, however, that before any action
was taken by the board in reference to either, to wit, on Nov. 2,
1869, the electors of the county had voted in favor of the donation. They further show that the county agreed to issue its

COUNTY

OF MOULTRIE V. FAIRFIELD.

[Sup. Ct.

bonds in satisfaction of its donation when the company had
completed its road through the county, and to issue its bonds
in payment of its stock when the railroad should be open for
traffic between the city of Decatur and the town of Sullivan ;
that the road was completed through the county as early as
Oct. 20, 1871, and that the donation bonds were issued and
bore date Nov. 1, 1871 ; that the road was not open for traffic
between Decatur and Sullivan until Dec. 31, 1872; and that
on that day, fourteen months after the issue of the donation
bonds, the subscription bonds were executed and issued. If
either class of bonds, therefore, has any advantage over the
other on the question of authority for their issue, it would
seem to be the donation bonds. Secondly, as there was authority for the issue of the donation bonds, which is recited
on their face by reference to the law from which it was
derived, the purchaser before maturity was not bound to look
further. The county having authority to issue bonds like
those purchased by him, he was under no obligation to inquire
whether the county had issued more bonds than the law
authorized. Lynde v. The County, 16 Wall. 6 ; City qf Lexington v. Butler, 14 id. 282; Marcy v. Township of Oswego,
92 U. S. q37; Jlum6 oldt Township v. Long, id. 642. Thirdl,j,
we are clearly of opinion that under sect. 10 of the charter
of the company the county might subscribe for stock to an
amount not exceeding $80,.000, and issue its bonds in payment
thereof, and under sect. 9 of the same charter make a donation to the same company, and issue its bonds in satisfaction
thereof.
It is clear, and it is conceded in the brief of plaintiff in error,
that the county is included within the terms of sect. 9, which
applies to counties along or near the route of the road, or that
are in any way interested therein. It is also clear that, independently of the provisions of sect. 10, the county might, upon
a vote of the people authorizing it, make a donation of any
amount to the company.
Section 10, which authorizes a subscription to the stock
within certain limits, and without any vote of the people, does
not preclude a donation under sect. 9. The obvious construetion of the two sections, taken together, is that any county along

Oct. 1881.]

COUNTY O

MOULTRIE V. FAIRFIELD.

the line of the railroad, upon a vote of the people, may, without
limit, either subscribe to the stock of the company or make it
a donation to be paid for in bonds, and that the county of
Moultrie may subscribe to the stock of the company, without a
consenting vote of the people, any sum not exceeding $80,000.
We must give this constructiou to the two sections if we allow
both to have their full effect ; and, if possible, they should be
so construed as to give full effect to both, without any linitation or condition not incorporated in them by the legislature.
The authority grante( to Moultrie and other counties by sect.
9 to make donations is not restrained or repealed because authority is granted to Moultrie County, by another section and
upon different conditions, to subscribe stock. One section
is not inconsistent with the other, and therefore does not
repeal it.
The next reason upon which the invalidity of the bonds and
coupons under consideration is based, is the section of the Constitution of Illinois of 1870, which declares: "No county,
city, town, or township, or other municipality, shall ever become subscriber to the capital stock of any railroad or private
corporation, or make donation to or loan its credit in aid of
such corporation: Provided, howerer, that the adoption of this
article shall not be construed as affecting the right 8f any such
municipality to make such subscriptions, when the same have
been authorized under existing laws, by a vote of the people of
such municipalities under existing laws." First additional
section.
The proviso of this section has been construed by the Supreme Court of Illinois -and this court has followed that construction - to extend to donations as well as subscriptions of
stock. Chieaqo & Iowa Railroad Co. v. Pinccney, 74 Ill. 277 ;
liddleport v. J4Etna Life Insvranee Co., 82 id. 562 ; Lippincott
v. Town of Pana, 92 id. 24 ; i'ahfield v. County of Gallatin,100
U. S. 47.
According to the findings of the court below, the records of
the board of supervisors of the county of Moultrie show that
before the adoption of the Constitution of 1870 an election was
held whereby the donation was authorized, which the bonds
in suit were issued to satisfy, and we have already seen that

COUNTY OF MOULTRIE

V. FAIRFIELD.

[Sup. Or.

such election was authorized by sect. 9 of the charter of the
railroad company. The prohibition of the Constitution does
not, therefore, extend to the donation made in this case, or the
bond' issued in satisfaction thereof.
An attempt is, however, made by the plaintiff in error to
show that no election by which said donation was authorized
was ever held ; because in the petition for the election, and in
the notice of the election, the railroad company to which the
donation was to be made was designated as the Mattoon, Sullivan, and Decatur Railroad Company, and not by its true name,
to wit, the Decatur, Sullivan, and Mattoon Railroad Company.
And the contention is that as there was no vote of the people
which authorized the donation in question to the Decatur,
Sullivan, and Mattoon Railroad Company, the power of the
county to make the donation was cut off by the Constitution
of 1870.
There can be no doubt to what company the people intended
to make their donation. The statute-books of the State of
Illinois will be searched in vain to find an act incorporating a
railroad company by the name of the Mattoon, Sullivan, and
Decatur Railroad Company. There can be no question that
in the petition for, and the notice of, the election, the company
intended was that known and chartered as the Decatur, Sullivan, and Mattoon Railroad Company; for the petition and
notice designated the route upon which the road was to be
built, and afterwards was built, and they refer to the provision
of the charter of that company, which authorized the donation
upon the making of which the voters were to express their
will.
But a conclusive circumstance against the county to show to
what company the donation was voted, is found in the records
of the board of supervisors, set out in the findings of the court,
in which it is distinctly stated that the petition for the election requested that an election be held in pursuance of an act
entitled an act to incorporate the "Decatur, Sullivan, and
Mattoon Railroad Company," to decide whether a donation
of $75,000 should be made to that company, and that
such election was held on Nov. 2, 1869, and resulted in favor
of donating the sum of $75,000 to that company. It was

Oct. 1881.]

COUNTY OF MOULTRIE V. FAIRFIELD.

therefore ordered that said sum be donated to the Decatur,
Sullivan, and Mattoon Railroad Company, and when said company should have completed its road through the county, that
the bonds of the county should be delivered to it in satisfaction
of such donation.
These records show what the understanding of the representative body of the county was in respect to the company to
which the donation was voted. There can, therefore, be no
doubt about the identity of the company which the voters of
the county had in view when the election was held. It is
certain that on Nov. 2, 1869, an election was held by the
voters, and a donation of $75,000 voted to some railroad company. The circumstances to which we have adverted do not
leave the least doubt that it was the Decatur, Sullivan, and
Mattoon Railroad Company. Upon such a state of facts the
law is well settled.

Even a contract is not avoided by misnaming the corporation with which it is made. Ifoleoken Building Association v.
Martin, 2 Beas. (N. J.) 427. And if a corporation is misnamed
in a statute, the statute is not thereby rendered inoperative if
there is enough from which to ascertain what corporation is
meant. Chancellor of Oxford's Case, 10 Rep. 53.
"Although the names of corporations are not merely arbitrary sounds, yet if there be enough to show that there is such

an artificial being, and to distinguish it from all others, the
body politick is well named, though the words and syllables
are varied from." Bacon's Abr., tit. Corporation, C. 2. And
it has been held by the Supreme Court of Illinois that the
transposition of words comprising the name of a corporation is
unimportant, if it be evident what corporation is intended.
Chadsey v. Me Creery, 27 Ill. 253.
We are, therefore, of opinion that in the petition for and
notice of the election the transposition of two of the words of
which the name of the corporation to which the aid was to be
voted was in part composed, cannot render the election invalid
and void.
It is, therefore, clear that the donation voted for at that
election is taken out of the operation of that clause of the Constitution of the State which declares that no municipality shall

COUNTY OF MOULTRIE

v.

[Slip. Ct.

FAIRFIELD.

make donations to, or loan its credit in aid of, any railroad or
private corporation. In our opinion none of the objections
which we have noticed, to the validity of the bonds under consideration, are well taken.
The remaining objection to their validity is also urged
against a recovery on those issued to the Bloomington and
Ohio River Railroad Company, and is the only ground of defence against the last-named bonds. This objection we shall
now consider. It is based on sect. 8 of art. 9 of the Constitution of Illinois, which declares: " County authorities shall
never assess taxes, the aggregates of which shall exceed
seventy-five cents per one hundred dollars valuation, except
for the payment of indebtedness existing at the adoption
of this Constitution, unless authorized by a vote of the people
of the county."

To show the applicability of this provision to the question in
hand, the plaintiff in error offered evidence in the court below,
on which the court made the following findings
" That at the time of the issuing of said bonds the indebtedness of said county, including said bonds, was two hundred and
seventy-five thousand dollars, and the valuation of the taxable
property of said county was two million two hundred and
seventy-nine thousand and eighty-four dollars, and that the
sum of ten thousand dollars per annum was required to defray
the necessary ordinary expenses of said county; and that at
the time of the rendition of the judgment in this-cause the
indebtedness of the county, including accrued interest, was
three hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars, and the valuation of the taxable property therein was three million five
-

hundred and eighty-nine thousand two hundred and fiftyone dollars, and that it required twelve thousand dollars
per annum to defray the necessary ordinary expenses of said
county.
" That to enable said county to pay the indebtedness created
by said donations to said Bloomington and Ohio River Railroad
Company, and to said Decatur, Sullivan, and Mattoon Railroad
Company, evidenced by said bonds still outstanding, the interest coupons upon which were sued on and offered in evidence
in this case, will require the annual assessment of taxes, which

Oct. 1881.]

COUNTY OF MOULTRIE

v.

FAIe'lRELD.

will exceed 75 cts. per $100 valuation of the taxable property
insaid county of Moultrie."
The argument of the plaintiff in error is that the indebtedness evidenced by the bonds issued by the county of Moultrie,
in aid of the two railroads mentioned, does not fall within the
exception found in sect. 8 of art. 9 of the Constitution, and
that the above-recited findiugs of the court below show that the
authorized tax of seventy-five cents on the one hundred dollars
would not be sufficient to pay the expenses of the county and
the principal and interest on the bonds. And it is, therefore,
contended that the bonds are void.
The authority cited to sustain this position (Loan Association
v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655) merely decides that the bonds are void
where there is no power in the legislature to authorize a tax in
aid of the purpose for which they were issued.
But here it is conceded that there is power, within certain limits, to levy a tax to pay these bonds. They cannot,
therefore, be void. Marcy v. Township of Oswego, supra.
Moreover, it appears from the findings of the court that at
the time the bonds in question were issued a levy of seventyfive cents on every hundred dollars valuation of the taxable
property of the county would produce a sum sufficient to pay
the ordinary expenses of the county, and leave a surplus of over
$7,000 to be applied to the payment of the bonds, and that at the
commencement of this suit such annual surplus, by reason of the
increase in the taxable property of the county, would amount
to nearly $15,000, -a sum almost sufficient to pay the judgment rendered in this case. So that the defence now under consideration is reduced to this, that because the whole
judgment cannot be at once collected, there should be no
judgment at all.
But it nowhere appears in the record that the county has
not ample means out of which the judgment could be collected
besides its revenues derived from taxation. We know from
the record that the county at one time owned $80,000 of the
stock of the Decatur, Sullivan, and Mattoon Railroad Company, and it does not appear that it is not still the owner
of this stock, and that it may not now be subjected to the
payment of the judgment recovered in this case, or that the

COUNTY

OF MOULTRIE V. FAIRFIELD.

[Sup. qt.

county may not have other similar assets sufficient to pay all
its debts.
Therefore, even if the county, by reason of the limit on its
taxing power, could not levy a tax to pay these bonds, nevertheless, they having been authorized, the holder is entitled
to judgment on them, and to collect it out of any property
of the county which could be subjected to the payment of
its debts.
Whether the indebtedness evidenced by the bonds which
are the basis of this suit falls within the exception of sect. 8,
art. 9, of the Constitution of Illinois, so that taxation for their
payment is without limit, is a question which does not necessarily arise upon this record, and which we are not now required to decide.
We are of opinion that there is no valid defence against a
recovery on the coupons sued on. The people of the county
almost unanimously voted for the issue of the bonds. The
conditions upon which the donations were made were fully
performed. The railroads which they were intended to aid
were completed and in use before they were executed, and
they were regularly and honestly issued by the public officers
charged with that duty. They are in the hands of bona fide
holders for value. Common honesty demands that the county
should apply its available means to their payment, and there
is no obstacle to a recovery upon the coupons.
Judgment affirmed.

