MATHEWS

V. MACHINE

Co.

[Sup. Ct.

The defendant requested a special instruction, that if the
jury believed from the evidence that the torehon lace did not
come within the class known as thread lace, designated and intended as such by the statute when it was enacted, they should
find that it was not a thread lace. This instruction the court
refused to add to that already given, and an exception was
taken. The jury found for the plaintiffs, and the case is
brought here for review.
The record does not disclose any error. The instruction of
the court was correct. The special instruction asked was substantially a repetition of that given, and, therefore, unnecessary ; there was evidence upon which the jury could find its
verdict, and no legal reason is shown why it should be disturbed. The judgment is, therefore,
Affrmed.

MATHEWS V. MACHINE COMPANY.
1. Letters-patent No. 4887, bearing date April 30, 1872, granted to Washburn
Race and S. R. C. Mathews for an improvement in hydrants, being a reissue of letters No. 19,206, dated Jan. 26, 1858, are void, inasmuch as, by
claiming the elements of the invention separately and not ,s a combination,
which is claimed in the original letters, they enlarge the scope of the latter, and they also cover a different invention. Miller v. Brass Compony
(104 U. S. 350.)
cited and approved.
2. Letters-patent No. 96,959, bearing date Nov. 16, 1869, granted to said Race
and Mathews for an improvement in hydrants, are also void, as they
embrace matters previously known and in public use.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. George L. Roberts and Mr. George Harding for the
appellants.
'Mr. Causten Browne for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes before us on an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill in equity filed by Samuel It.C. Mathews and

Oct. 1881.]

MATHEWS V. MACHINE CO.

others, the appellants, against the Boston Machine Company and
others, in which they prayed for an injunction and account of
profits for an alleged infringement of two certain patents granted
to Washburn Race and S. R. C. Mathews, one dated April 30,
1872 (being a reissue of a patent granted Jan. 26, 1858),
and the other dated Nov. 16, 1869. The defendants, in answer, denied that Race and Mathews were the first inventors
of the thing patented, referring to several prior patents, and
naming prior instances of knowledge and use of the alleged
invention ; and amongst other things setting up a patent issued
to one Zebulon E. Coffin, dated July 21, 1868. They also denied that the reissued patent was for the same invention as the
original ; and denied infringement. The complainants filed a
supplemental bill, alleging that since the filing of the original
the defendants had procured a reissue of Coffin's patent, which
contained substantially the same invention as that described in
the complainants' patent of 1869; but that Race and Mathews
were the first and original inventors of the thing patented; and
therefore they prayed that the Coffin patent might be declared
void.
The Race and Mathews patents, on which this suit was
brought, relate to casings or jackets around hydrants, and to
the valves for letting on the water when wanted for use, and
for draining it out of the hydrant when not in use. It is conceded that the objects of the casing are to prevent freezing in
and around the hydrant, by surrounding it with a volume of
dead air, to keep it free from contact with the surrounding
earth, and to enable the hydrant to be taken out of the ground
without removing the surrounding earth. If the earth is in
contact with the hydrant, it lifts the hydrant out of place by
the action of the frost, and has to be dug away when repairs
or other operations have to be performed below the surface.
Many casings formerly used were fastened in different ways
to the hydrant, and they raised it, when they were lifted by
the frost, causing breakage or leakage or other damage by the
displacement; and the hydrant could not be disconnected
from the main and removed, without removing the casing
also.
So far as the improvement in the casing is concerned, the

MATHEWS

v. MACHINE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

principal thing claimed to be effected by the patentees, Race
and Mathews, is the placing of the case in position without
attaching it to the hydrant, or to the elbow of the main pipe
below, so that the hydrant, whilst being protected from frost
and the surrounding earth, may be lifted out separately, and
so that the lifting of the case by the frost and surrounding
earth will not disturb the hydrant. These objects are effected
by two different devices; first, by causing the case to rest
loosely on a flange projecting from the elbow of the main, or
otherwise, and allowing it to slide up the hydrant which it
surrounds, and which is enlarged at that point, for holding the
valves; secondly, by allowing the upper end of the case to embrace the hydrant (enlarged at that point also), and to slide
up and down upon it like a sleeve. Of course, the case must
fit the hydrant snugly enough to keep out the influx of cold air
above, and of dirt below; but not so tight as to prevent the
hydrant from being lifted out, or the case from slipping up and
down upon it. This is the thing which the complainants contend that Race and Mathews invented.
As first patented in 1858, the invention did not accomplish
the object. The bottom of the case, it is true, surrounded the
hydrant like a sleeve, and rested.on a flange projecting from
the elbow (which allowed the hydrant'to be separately removed without removing the case); but the top of the case
was enclosed in a flange projecting from the enlarged part of
the hydrant above, like the brim of a hat, but turned down
over the top of the case, so that the latter, though unconnected
otherwise with the hydrant, yet if it were lifted by the frost,
it would press upward against the flange and raise the hydrant
also. This difficulty was remedied by the invention of the improvement patented in 1869, by which the top of the case was
made to surround and enclose the upper enlargement of the
hydrant, and to slide over it like a sleeve, as before stated.
The reissued patent of 1872 substantially embraces both features of the improved case, namely, its disconnection with the
hydrant both above and below, and places much stress on the
dead-air chamber as a protection from frost, and' on the protection of the hydrant below from the surrounding earth;
although no claim is based on these last features.

Oct. 1881.]

MATHEWS V. MACHINE CO.

The defendants contend that this reissued patent is not for
the same invention as that which is described and patented in
and by the original patent of 1858; that the latter made no
mention of the dead-air chamber formed by the casing, as a
protection of the hydrant from the frost; and that it contained
no indication that the case should fit closely to the hydrant, so
as to prevent the passage of cold air into the chamber from
without. But to these objections it is answered, that the case
invented by Race and Mathews in 1858 was a machine or apparatus having, or being susceptible of, various functions, some
of which were well known and needed not to be mentioned or
described. Amongst these known functions of the hydrant
casing were, the formation of a dead-air chamber to prevent
freezing, and the protection of the hydrant from contact with
the surrounding earth. The paten of Coffin, on which the
defendants rely, states that prior to the date of his invention
frost jackets, or cases, on hydrants were well known; that they
surround the hydrant proper, an air space existing between
the two. It was not necessary for the patentees, Race and
Mathews, to enumerate all the known functions of these frost
jackets in their original patent; and, as no claim was based
upon theib, it could not be hurtful to enumerate them in the
reissued patent.
But the complainants, in their reissued patent, have split up
and divided the elements of their invention, and claimed them
separately, and not as a combination. Of course, this enlarges
the scope of their patent. The separate claims embrace fewer
elements in combination than were embraced in the claim of
the original patent. No one could infringe the original patent
unless he used all the elements of the combination. Any one
will infringe the reissue who uses any of those elements which
are now separately claimed.
The original patent had but a single claim in reference to
the case, being a claim for a combination between the hydrant,
the induction pipe provided with a flange to sustain the jacket,
and the jacket itself, when arranged as described in the specification to effect the desired end, to wit, the ready removal of
the hydrant. This, in the reissued patent, is divided into two
claims, namely, first, the jacket surrounding the hydrant and

MATHEWS

V. MACHINE

CO.

[Sup. Ct,.

forming a separate and removable part from the elbow, substantially as and for the purpose set forth; secondly, the independent jacket supported on the arm or elbow of the main at
or near the junction of the hydrant, substantially as shown and
described; that is to say, there is a claim of a jacket separate
and removable" from the elbow, and of a jacket resting on the
elbow. It cannot be denied that each of these separate claims
is much broader than -the claim in the original patent; and
they are put forth in the reissue fourteen years after the original was granted. The latter showed on its face that these
broad claims were not made; and if the patentees were really
the inventors of an independent jacket standing loosely on the
elbow of the main, when apprised that it was not claimed in
the patent they ought to have used due diligence in surrendering it and having the mistake corrected. The case clearly
comes within the ruling in Miller v. Brass Company, 104
U. S. 350.
There is still another objection to the claims in question.
There is a wide departure from the original invention in
this, that the subject of the latter was a jacket, or casing,
whose top was enclosed and covered by a flange projecting
from the hydrant, which effectually prevented the removal of
the jacket without removing the hydrant also ; and which
caused the hydrant to be raised when the jacket was lifted
by the frost. In the reissued patent nothing is said of this
arrangement of the top of the jacket, and the claims ignore it
altogether; so that, as already intimated, the patent as it now
stands would cover such a jacket as that described and claimed
in the complainants' patent of 1869, which slides like a sleeve
over the hydrant at top as well as bottom. The reissue is not
only for a broader claim made many years after the original
was granted, but is for a different invention. Therefore, so far
as the jacket is concerned, we think it cannot be sustained.
But the patent of 1869 still remains. That was for an improvement by which it was proposed to liberate the top of the
case from the flange which covered and enclosed it, and make
it surround the hydrant and slip over it like a sleeve. The
claim is for " the detached ease 13, so combined and arranged
witI the hydrant A, as to have an end play, or vertical motion

Oct. 1881.] '

MATHEWS V. MACHINE

CO.

of several inches, to compensate for the heaving by frost, the
upper part of same passing outside of main stock of hydrant."
Had this patent been confined to a hydrant jacket closed at
the bottom, and resting on a flange of the main elbow, perhaps
it might have been sustainable. But it is not so confined. It
is only said that the lower end preferably shuts into a flange
of the elbow. The specification, it is true, commences with a
statement that the invention was a mere improvement upon
that described by the patent of 1858, which was for a case
closed at the bottom by standing on a flange; but before getting through, there is an evident departure from that, and an
indication that the patentees had begun to entertain views of
an expanded construction intended to be placed on the original
patent, which afterwards found expression in the reissue of
1872. The claim of the patent of 1869, as it stands, covers
any and every loose jacket having an end play to compensate
for the heaving of the frost, and having the upper end passing
around the hydrant. It covers the old New York wooden case,
or housing, which was in public use for many years before
Race and Mathews gave their attention to the subject. We
are of opinion, therefore, that this patent cannot be sustained.
As to the valve apparatus, the object of which is to let the,
water in the body of the hydrant escape when the main valve
is closed, and to prevent any escape of water when the main
valve is open, since Race and Mathews were not the original
inventors of this process, but only of a particular arrangement
of valves to effet it, they can only properly claim the specific
arrangTement which they invented. And inview of the older
valve in the St. Louis hydrants, which that of the defendants
iost nearly resembles, and of the fact that the valve used by
the defendants is not in the specific form of that invented
by Race and Mathews, we think that the defendants are correct in their position that they do not infringe the patent of
Race and Mathews, as that patent must be construed in order
to be sustained.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS and MR. JUSTICE
sit in this case, nor take any part in deciding it.

(Gu,%

did not

