MCCORMICK v. KNOX.

[Sup. Ct.

months next before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, it
would have been void under the letter of the Bankrupt Act.
Where all the other circumstances necessary to render it
void concur, the device of concealing it until the two months
have elapsed cannot save it. It is, notwithstanding the lapse
of time, a fraud on the policy and objects of the bankrupt law,
and is void as against its spirit.
The conduct of the nortgagees in this case shows them to
be without claim to the consideration of a court of equity.
On the contrary, it clearly appears to be the duty of the court
to take care that they shall not reap the fruits of their fraudulent practices. Their assignee of the mortgage, the Charter
Oak Life Insurance Company, stands in no stronger position.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE GrAY

did not sit in this case, nor take any

part in deciding it.

McCoRMIcK v. KNox.
A., whose debt was secured by deed of trust on lands, purchased tbem when, in
default of payment, they were offered at a public sale by the trustee, and on
taking a deed therefor entered into possession thereof, lie subsequently paid
off a prior lieu. On a bill filed by a junior incumbraneer, the court granted
the latter the right to redeem on his paying to A. the debt and the money
expended in discharging the older ineunibraace, with interest, and also the
amount paid for taxes, repairs, and insurance, less the rents and profits while
A. was in possession. Held, that the decree is correct.

from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The pleadings and evidence in this case disclose the following
state of facts: Prior to Oct. 3, 1871, R. W. Bruff was the owner in fee of
certain real estate in the city of Washington. On the day
just mentioned he executed to Albert J. Meyer his promissory
note of that date for $5,000, payable in five years, and secured
it by a deed of trust on the property, with power of sale, to
one Winier as trustee. On June 29, 1872, Bruff conveyed the
property to Mary J. Wheeler, who on July 1, 1872, for his
APPEAL

Oct. 1881.]

MCCORMICK v. KNOX.

accommodation, made her note of that date, payable one year
thereafter to his order, for $2,000, and to secure it executed a
deed of trust on the same property to William Ff. Ward as
trustee, with power of sale in case of default in the payment of
the note.
On July 13, 1872, Bruff, for himself and his partner, one
Ioltzelaw, executed to the Freedman's Savings and Trust
Company a note for $3,000, and as collateral security therefor
deposited with the company forty shares in the Capitol Hill
Building Association, and the above-mentioned note of Wheeler,
secured as aforesaid. Payments were made upon the note of
Holtzclaw & Bruff, so that on April 9, 1873, there appeared to
be due thereon the sum of $1,045.
On June 3, 1873, Wheeler conveyed the property to Michael
McCormick, by deed of that date, which, though absolute on its
face, it is clear from the evidence was merely given as security
for a pre-existing debt.
The Freedman's Savings and Trust Company having become
insolvent, three commissioners were appointed under an act of
Congress to take possession of and administer its assets. They
entered on their duties about July 12, 1874. Default having
been made in the payment of the balance due on the note of
Holtzclaw & Bruff, and also in the payment of the note made
by Wheeler, the commissioners directed Ward, the trustee, to
proceed to execute the trusts imposed on him by Wheeler's
deed of July 1, 1872. He accordingly advertised the property.
It was sold at public auction on March 17, 1876, and bid in by
the commissioners, to whom Ward, the trustee, made a deed of
conveyance.
The note for $5,000, which was held by Meyer, having become due, he insisted that it should be paid, and threatened.
if it were not paid, to cause the property to be again advertised
and sold under the trust deed to Wiier.

The commissioners

thereupon paid him the amount due on the note, namely,
$6,128, and received from the trustee, Wimer, a deed of release
to the property.
After the conveyance of the property by Ward to the commissioners, they took possession of it, and received its rents
until March 17, 1879.

MCCoRMICK v. KNOX.

[Sup. Ct.

On March 15, 1879, McCormick filed the bill in this case
against the commissioners. He founds his title to relief upon
the deed made to him by Wheeler on June 3, 1873. The
prayer of his bill is, that, on account of certain alleged informalities, the sale made by Ward, trustee, to the commissioners, be declared void and his deed cancelled, that an account
be taken of the balance due on the note secured by the trust
deed to Ward, and that the rents received by the commissioners while in possession of the property be set off against such
balance, and for general relief.
The commissioners filed an answer and a cross-bill. In the
latter they pray that the sale made to them by Ward, the
trustee, be ratified and confirmed, and their title to the property declared to be good and valid.
McCormick answered the cross-bill, in which be denies the
right of Ward, the trustee, to sell the property, the regularity
of the sale, &e.
There are other pleadings in the case which are not necessary
to be stated.
By virtue of an act of Congress approved Feb. 21, 1881, the
court made an order substituting Knox, the present appellee,
for the three original commissioners. Upon final hearing on
the pleadings and evidence, the court, in special term, made a
decree to the effect that McCormick or Wheeler might redeem the property by paying the balance due on the note for
$83,000 made by Holtzclaw & Bruff to the Freedman's Savings
and Trust Company, and also the amount paid by the commissioners on the note held by Meyer, and the sums paid by them
for taxes, insurance, and repairs upon the property in question,
after deducting the rents collected by them ; but in ease said
sums were not paid within thirty days after confirmation of the
auditor's report ascertaining the same, the sale and deed by
Ward, the trustee, to the commissioners, should stand ratified
and confirmed. McCormick appealed from this decree to the
court in general term, by which it was affirmed, and le has
brought the case to this court by appeal from the latter decree.
Mr.John J. Weed and Mr.William A. Neloy for the appellant.
Mr.Enoch Totten for the appellee.

Oct. 1881.]

MCCORMICK

v.

KNOX.

MR. JUSTICE WOODS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The counsel for appellant has submitted an argument to
show that the sale and deed made by Ward, the trustee, to the
commissioners of the Freedman's Savings and Trust Company
were void. Without discussion of this question, we simply declare our opinion to be, that there is no solid ground for this
contention to rest upon. But whether the sale is valid or
not is an immaterial question in this case, for the decree of
the court below permitted the complainant to redeem the property, and so avoid entirely the effect of the sale and deed, by
the payment of the balance due on the promissory note for
$3,000 made by Holtzelaw & Bruff to the Freedman's Savings
and Trust Company, and the amount due on the note for $5,000
made by Bruff to Meyer, and the taxes, &c., paid by the commissioners of the Freedman's Savings and Trust Company, after
deducting the rents received by them. The decree of the court
below substantially gives the appellant all the relief prayed for
by his bill, on condition, however, that he should pay off the
incumbrances on the property in question, older and better
than his own.
The only practical question, therefore, is, Are the terms
upon which the appellant and his grantor, Mrs. Wheeler, were
allowed to redeem, just and right? Upon this point, it seems
to us, there can be no doubt. The amount due on the note of
Holtzclaw & Bruff, it is conceded, is less than the sum due on
the note of Mrs. Wheeler, which it was pledged to secure.
Neither she nor her grantee, the appellant, can complain if
they are required to pay the balance, whatever it may be, due
on the Holtzclaw & Bruff note before they can be allowed to
redeem. It is equally clear that they ought to be required to
pay the sum applied by the commissioners to discharge the
amount due on the note held by Meyer, which was secured by
a trust deed on the premises in controversy, and was the first
lien thereon.
The contention of complainant that he should receive a clear
title to the property, without first discharging the lien thereon
created by the trust deed of Mrs. Wheeler, and without first
paying the sums which had been applied by the commissioners

AGER V. MURRAY.

[Sup. Ct.

to the discharge of the lien held by Meyer, both of which were
prior in date to his own, is not founded on any equity, and is
not supported by any authority. On the contrary, it is clear
that the commissioners, having paid off the oldest incumbrance
on the property, are entitled to be subrogated to the rights of
the incumbrancer. -Robinsonv. Ryan, 25 N, Y. 320; Redmond
v. Burroughs, 63 N. C. 242.
A mortgagee who has paid a prior mortgage or other incumbrance upon the land is entitled to be repaid the sum so advanced
when the mortgagor or his vendee comes to redeem. Paye v.
Foster, 7 N. H. 892; Arnold v. Foote, 7 B. Mon. (Ky.) 66;
Harper v. -Ely, 70 111. 581.
The same rule applies to the payment by the mortgagee
of taxes on the mortgaged premises, or any valid assessment
thereon for public improvement.
Dale v. MeEvers, 2 Cow.
(N. Y.), 118.
The decree of the court below gave the complainant every
right which the law accorded him. It must, therefore, be
Afrmed.

AGER V. MURRAY.
A patent-right may be subjected by bill in equity to the payment of a judgment
debt of the patentee.

from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

Submitted on printed briefs by Ifir. Thomas T. Crittenden
and Mr. Warwick M11artin for the appellants, and by Mr. Lemon
G. Hine and Mr. S. T. Thomas for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE GutAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity by a judgment creditor to subject to
the payment of his debt the interest of his debtor in patentrights. The case was heard in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia upon bill and answers, by which it appears
to be as follows: -

