Oct. 1881.]

UNITED

STATES V. CARLL.

character of the transaction. It was of no moment to them
who became the purchaser, nor did they so regard it, for the
transfers of their stock were made in blank. The compromise
stands, therefore, as a judgment, making a settlement of the
very matters now set up as grounds of complaint in the petition in reconvention ; that is, "the frauds and machinations of
the officers of the company" in levying the assessment. It settled all claims arising from the assessment, and the alleged
fraudulent purposes of the officers in connection with it.
Though made directly between the company and the defendants, it protects from further suit those who advised, equally
with those who levied, the assessment; participants in what-

ever wrong was committed, if any there were, as well as
principals; abettors as well as doers of it. No allegations
of fraud, in addition to those made at the settlement, can prevent the compromise from having effect as a judgment thereon.
It may, indeed, by a direct proceeding instituted for that purpose, be rescinded for fraud, but it cannot, any more than any
other judgment, be attacked collaterally. Adle v. Prudhomme,
16 La. Ann. 343. In the face of the compromise, the reconventional demand cannot be sustained.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED

STATES V.

CAELL.

An indictment on sect. 5431 of the Revised Statutes, alleging, in the words of
the statute, that the defendant feloniously, and with intent to defraud, did
pass, utter, and publish a falsely made, forged, counterfeited, and altered
obligation of the United States, but not further alleging that the defendant
knew it to be false, forged, counterfeited, and altered, is insufficient, even
after verdict.

CERTIFICATE of division in opinion between the judges of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
This was an indictment, found in the Circuit Court, on sect.
5431 of the Revised Statutes, by which it is enacted that
" every person who, with intent to defraud, passes, utters,

UNITED

STATES V. CARLL.

[Sup. Ct.

publishes, or sells any falsely made, forged, counterfeited, or
altered obligation or other security of the United States, shall
be punished by a fine of not more than five thousand dollars,
and by imprisonment at hard labor not more than fifteen
years."
Each count of the indictment alleged that the defendant, at
a certain time and place, "feloniously, and with intent to
defraud the Bank of the Metropolis, which said bank is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of New York,
did pass, utter, and publish upon and to the said Bank of the
Metropolis a falsely made, forged, counterfeited, and altered
obligation and security of the United States" (which was set
forth according to its tenor), against the peace, and contrary to
the form of the statute.
The defendant, having been tried before Judge Benedict, and
convicted by the jury under instructions which required them
to be satisfied of the facts alleged, and that the defendant, at
the time of uttering the obligations, knew them to be false,
forged, counterfeited, and altered, moved in arrest of judgment
for the insufficiency of the indictment. At the hearing of this
motion before Judge Blatchford and Judge Benedict, they
were divided in opinion upon the question, stated in various
forms in their certificate, but in substance this: Whether the
indictment, setting forth the offence in the language of the
statute, without further alleging that the defendant knew
the instruments to be false, forged, counterfeited, and altered,
was sufficient, after verdict, to warrant judgment thereon.
The Solicitor-General for the United States.
Mr. William C. Roberts for the defendant.
MR. JUSTrCn GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
In an indictment upon a statute, it is not sufficient to set
forth the offence in the words of the statute, unless those
words of themselves fully, directly, and expressly, without any
uncertainty or ambiguity, set forth all the elements necessary
to constitute the offence intended to be punished ; and the fact
that the statute in question, read in the light of the common
law, and of other statutes on the like matter, enables the court

Oct. 1881.]

UNITED STATES

V. CARLL.

to infer the intent of the legislature, does not dispense with the
necessity of alleging in the indictment all the facts necessary to
bring the case within that intent. United States v. Cruileshank,
92 U. S. 542; United States v. Simmons, 96 id. 360; Commonwealth v. Clifford, 8 Cush. (Mass.) 215; Commonwealth v.
Bean, 11 id. 414; Commonwealth v. Bean, 14 Gray (Mass.),
52 ; Commonwealth v. Vilburn, 119 Mass. 297.
The language of the statute on which this indictment is
founded includes the case of every person who, with intent to
defraud, utters any forged obligation of the United States. But
the offence at which it is aimed is similar to the comiuon-law
offence of uttering a forged or counterfeit bill. In this case, as
in that, knowledge that the instrument is forged and counterfeited is essential to make out the crime; and an' uttering,
with intent to defraud, of an instrument in fact counterfeit,
but supposed by the defendant to be genuine, though within
the words of the statute, would not be within its meaning and
object.
This indictment, by omitting the allegation contained in the
indictment in United States v. Howell (11 Wall. 432), and in
all approved precedents, that the defendant knew the instrument which he uttered to be false, forged, and counterfeit, fails
to charge him with any crime. The omission is of matter of
substance, and not a "defect or imperfection in matter of form
only," within the meaning of sect. 1025 of the Revised Statutes.
By the settled rules of criminal pleading, and the authorities
above cited, therefore, the question of the sufficiency of the
indictment must be
Answered in the negative.

