JAMISON v. TEXAS.

413

Opinion of the Court.
JAMISON v. TEXAS.
APPEAL FROM THE CRIMINAL COURT OF DALLAS COUNTY,
TEXAS.

No. 558. Argued February 12, 1943.-Decided March 8, 1943.
i. Under the state law, the appellant in this case could appeal to no
higher state court than that from which the appeal here was taken;
and, since the judgment sustained a municipal ordinance the validity of which under the Federal Constitution was challenged, this
Court has jurisdiction of the appeal under Jud. Code ยง 237 (a).
P. 414.
2. A municipal ordinance is a "statute" of the State, within the
meaning of Jud. Code ยง 237 (a). King Mfg. Co. v. Augusta, 277
U. S. 100, followed. P. 414.
3. A municipal ordinance which, as construed and applied, prohibits
the dissemination of information by handbills, held a denial of the
freedom of the press and violative of the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 415.
4. A State may not, consistently with the Fourteenth Amendment,
prohibit the distribution of handbills in the pursuit of a clearly
religious activity merely because the handbills invite the purchase of
books for the improved understanding of the religion or because
they seek to promote the raising of funds for religious purposes.
P. 416.

Reversed.
APPEAL from a conviction and sentence for violation of
a municipal ordinance.
Mr. Hayden C. Covington for appellant.
Mr. H. P. Kucera for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The appellant, a member of the Jehovah's Witnesses,
was charged with distributing handbills on the streets of
Dallas, Texas, in violation of an ordinance of that city
which prohibits their distribution. She was convicted in
the Corporation Court of Dallas, and appealed to the

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1942..
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

County Criminal Court where, after a trial de novo, she
was again convicted and a fine of $5.00 and costs was imposed. Under Texas law she could appeal to no higher
state court,' and since she properly raised federal questions of substance in both courts, the case is rightfully
here on appeal under ยง 237 (a) of the Judicial Code. King
ManufacturingCo. v. Augusta, 277 U. S. 100. The appellee has asked us to reconsider the doctrine of the King
Manufacturing Co. case under which this Court takes
jurisdiction on appeal from judgments sustaining the validity of municipal ordinances. We see no reason for reconsidering the King ManufacturingCo. case and follow it
here.
We think the judgment below must be reversed because
the Dallas ordinance denies to the appellant the freedom
of press and of religion guaranteed to her by the First and
Fourteenth Amendments of the Federal Constitution.
The stipulated facts show that the appellant, after three
years of special training, had devoted many years to the
work of the Jehovah's Witnesses. At the time of her arrest, the appellant was distributing handbills in an orderly
and quiet manner to pedestrians whom she met on the
street. On one side of the handbill was an invitation to
attend a gathering in a Dallas park, which was to be one
of fifty simultaneous gatherings of Jehovah's Witnesses in
as many cities, to hear an address by a leader of the group
on "Peace, Can It Last." The other side of the handbill
repeated the invitation and described at the bottom two
books which explained the Jehovah's Witnesses' interpretation of the Bible and set out their religious views. This
was followed by a statement that the books would be
mailed "Postage Prepaid on your contribution of 250."
While the books were not actually sold on the streets, the
'The Texas practice under which this is the highest state court to
which appellant could appeal is considered in Largent v. Texas, post,

p. 418.

JAMISON v. TEXAS.
413

Opinion of the Court.

appellant would have delivered them to the home of anyone who made the twenty-five cents contribution. The
books would have cost her more than twenty-five
cents.
The Dallas ordinance, which is set forth in the margin,2
has been construed by the state court to forbid the distribution of leaflets by the appellant in the fashion outlined
above.' The city seeks to uphold the ordinance here on
the contention (a) that it is justified as an exercise of the
city's plenary control of its streets, and (b) that appellant's
activity may be forbidden because the leaflets include
"commercial advertising of books which the distributor
is offering for sale."
First. The city contends that its power over its streets
is not limited to the making of reasonable regulations for
the control of traffic and the maintenance of order, but
that it has the power absolutely to prohibit the use of the
streets for the communication of ideas. It relies primarily
on Davis v. Massachusetts, 167 U. S. 43.
2

This same argu-

"Scattering handbills, etc.-It shall be unlawful for any person to

carry or hold by hand or otherwise, any billboard, show card, placard
or advertisement, or to wear any costume for the purpose of attracting
attention of the public, or to scatter or throw any handbills, circulars,
cards, newspapers or any advertising device of any description, along
or upon any street or sidewalk in the city of Dallas. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, may be fined in any sum not
exceeding one hundred dollars."
3 The complaint under which the appellant was convicted alleged
that she did "carry, hold by hand, distribute, scatter and throw handbills as an advertising medium" in vidlation of the ordinance. It will
be noted that the word "distribute," which does not appear in the
ordinance, is a part of the complaint; and that the words "carry or
hold by hand," which appear in the first clause of the ordinance as
relating to billboards, et cetera, have been applied in the complaint
as though relating to "handbills," which appears in the second clause
of the ordinance in connection with papers scattered or thrown on the

street.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

ment, made in reliance upon the same decision, has been
directly rejected by this Court. Hague v. C. I. 0., 307
U. S. 496, 514-516. Of course, states may provide for
control of travel on their streets in order to insure the
safety and convenience of the traveling public. Cox v.
New Hampshire, 312 U. S. 569, 574. They may punish
conduct on the streets which is in violation of a valid law.
Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568. But one
who is rightfully on a street which the state has left open
to the public carries with him there as elsewhere the constitutional right to express his views in an orderly fashion.
This right extends to the communication of ideas by handbills and literature as well as by the spoken word. Hague
v. C. I. 0., supra; Schneider v. Irvington, 308 U. S. 147,
162. Here, the ordinance as construed and applied prohibits the dissemination of information by handbills. As
such, it cannot be sustained.
Second. The right to distribute handbills concerning
religious subjects on the streets may not be prohibited at
all times, at all places, and under all circumstances. This
has been beyond controversy since the decision in Lovell v.
Griffin, 303 U. S. 444. The city contends, however, that in
the instant case the prohibition is permissible because the
handbills, although they were distributed for the unquestioned purpose of furthering religious activity, contained
an invitation to contribute to the support of that activity
by purchasing books related to the work of the group.
The mere presence of an advertisement of a religious work
on a handbill of the sort distributed here may not subject
the distribution of the' handbill to prohibition. In
Schneider v. Irvington, supra, we held that the city of
Irvington might not forbid conduct almost precisely the
same as that with which the appellant in the instant case
is charged. Even where handbills carrying notice of a
public gathering contained a statement of an admission

JAMISON v. TEXAS.
413

Opinion of the Court.

fee, we held that they could not be barred from distribution
on the streets. Schneider v. Irvington, supra, 154, 162,
163. No admission was to be charged at the meeting for
which the appellant was circulating leaflets in the instant
case. In Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 305, we
said that a state might not prevent the collection of funds
for a religious purpose by unreasonably obstructing or
delaying their collection.
The states can prohibit the use of the streets for the
distribution of purely commercial leaflets, even though
such leaflets may have "a civic appeal, or a moral platitude" appended. Valentine v. Chrestensen, 316 U. S. 52,
55. They may not prohibit the distribution of handbills
in the pursuit of a clearly religious activity merely because
the handbills invite the purchase of books for the improved
understanding of the religion or because the handbills seek
in a lawful fashion to promote the raising of funds for
religious purposes.
Reversed.
acquiesces in the refusal to
reconsider King Mfg. Co. v. Augusta, 277 U. S. 100, although, for the reasons set forth by Holmes and Brandeis,
JJ., dissenting, he deems that case to have been erroneously decided. Otherwise he agrees with the opinion in
this case.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

