MANDEVILLE v. CANTERBURY.

47

Opinion of the Court.

MANDEVILLE, TRUSTEE,

ET AL.

v. CANTERBURY.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 422. Argued January 13, 1943.-Decided February 1, 1943.
A federal District Court having jurisdiction, by diversity of citizenship,
of a suit wherein the complainant, claiming an interest in a trust
estate created under a will, seeks to have the will construed and
prays a decree determining the complainant's rights in the trust
property and directing the trustees to account and to turn over
to the complainant her share in the trust property, is precluded by
§ 265 of the Judicial Code from enjoining subsequent proceedings in
state courts of other States, wherein are sought adjudications of the
rights of the parties in land belonging to the trust and located in
such other States. P. 49.
130 F. 2d 208, reversed.

317 U. S. 616, to review the affirmance of a
federal court injunction staying proceedings in state
courts.
CERTIORARI,

Miss Corinne L. Rice for petitioners.
Mr. HerbertR. Tews, with whom Mr.Lloyd C. Whitman
was on the brief, for respondent.
PER CURIAM.

Respondent, said to be a citizen of California who claims
an interest in a trust estate created under a will probated
in Illinois, brought this suit in the District -Court for
Northern Illinois for construction of the will, joining as
defendants the trustees and other interested parties, all
alleged to be citizens of Illinois. The relief prayed is that
the court, after construing the will, render a decree determining respondent's rights in the trust property and
directing the trustee to account and to turn over to respondent her share in the trust property. Included in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

trust property are tracts of land located in Minnesota,
Wisconsin and Illinois.
After respondent began the present suit, petitioners
brought suit in a Minnesota state court against respondent and unknown heirs, devisees and legatees of decedent
and unknown beneficiaries under the will, seeking a construction of so much of the will as relates to the Minnesota land, and an adjudication of their rights in the land.
Shortly afterwards petitioners also brought suit in a Wisconsin state court against the same defendants, seeking
like relief with respect to the Wisconsin land. On motion
of respondent the district court granted a temporary injunction restraining the prosecution of the pending suits
in Minnesota and Wisconsin. It also enjoined further
prosecution of a probate proceeding brought by petitioner
Richard Canterbury Mandeville in the County Court of
Rock County, Wisconsin, which sought a construction of
the will and a determination of the rights of the parties
under it, but with the proviso that the injunction should
not restrain the probate of the will or a determination of
inheritance taxes due to the state. On appeal from the
injunction order the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit affirmed, 130 F. 2d 208, and we granted certiorari.
317 U. S. 616.
Section 265 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 379, provides that except as authorized by any law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy "the writ of injunction shall not
be granted by any court of the United States to stay proceedings in any court of a State." To this sweeping command there is a long recognized exception that if two suits
pending, one in a state and the other in a federal court,
are in rem or quasi in rem, so that the court or its officer
must have possession or control of the property which is
the subject matter of the suits in order to proceed with
the cause and to grant the relief sought, the court first
acquiring jurisdiction or assuming control of such property

MANDEVILLE v. CANTERBURY.
47

Opinion of the Court.

is entitled to maintain and exercise its jurisdiction to the
exclusion of the other.
In such cases this Court has uniformly held that a federal court may protect its jurisdiction thus acquired by
restraining the parties from prosecuting a like suit in a
state court notwithstanding the prohibition of § 265.
This exception to the prohibition has been regarded as one
of necessity to prevent unseemly conflicts between the federal and state courts and to prevent the impasse which
would arise if the federal court were unable to maintain
its possession and control of the property, which are indispensable to the exercise of the jurisdiction it has assumed.
But where the judgment sought is strictly in personam for
the recovery of money or for an injunction compelling or
restraining action by the defendant, both a state court
and a federal court having concurrent jurisdiction may
proceed with the litigation at least until judgment is obtained in one court, which may be set up as res judicata
in the other. These principles were recognized and the
authorities sustaining them collected in Penn General
Casualty Co. v. Pennsylvania, 294 U. S. 189, and Toucey
v. New York Life Ins. Co., 314 U. S. 118, 134-36.
The present suit, so far as it relates to the subject matter
of the suits pending in Minnesota and Wisconsin, is a suit
in personam brought against the trustees and other claimants, actual or potential, to the land located in those
states. Maintenance of the suit in the district court does
not require possession of the property by that court or
require it to assume supervisory or administrative control of it even through exercise of its control over the
trustees, at least until it has determined that respondent
has some interest in the property, nor has the court undertaken to exercise such control. While jurisdiction assumed by a state court over a pending proceeding for an
accounting by testamentary trustees, involving problems
of administration and restoration of the corpus of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

trust, has been deemed exclusive of the jurisdiction of a
federal court over a later suit there for the same relief,
Princess Lida v. Thompson, 305 U. S. 456, 466-67, here
the federal court has not attempted to assume such jurisdiction with respect to an asserted but contested interest
in land located in another state. So far as the suits in
either the federal or the state courts seek an adjudication
of the interests of the parties in the land, it cannot be said
that the federal court has exclusive jurisdiction. Commonwealth Trust Co. v. Bradford, 297 U. S. 613. In any
case, exercise by the state courts of their jurisdiction to
adjudicate the parties' rights to land located in those
states involves no interference with or impairment of the
jurisdiction of the federal court in Illinois, and affords no
ground for the injunction restraining prosecutions of the
suits in the state courts. Commonwealth Trust Co. v.
Bradford, supra. The case does not come within any
exception to the prohibition of § 265 of the Judicial
Code.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals will be
reversed with directions to the district court to vacate the
injunction order.
Reversed.
IN RE WILLIAM V. BRADLEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 473. Argued January 8, 1943.-Decided February 1, 1943.
A federal court having erroneously imposed upon the petitioner a
sentence of fine and imprisonment for contempt (Jud. Code § 268,

28 U. S. C. § 385), and the fine having been paid to the clerk of
the court, who gave a receipt therefor, the court is without power
thereafter-although the money had not been covered into the
Treasury-to modify the sentence to one of imprisonment only,
and the petitioner must be discharged. P. 52.
Reversed.

