CLEARFIELD TRUST CO. v. U. S.

363

Syllabus.

CLEARFIELD TRUST CO. ET
STATES.

AL.

V. UNITED

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 490. Argued February 5, 1943.-Decided March 1, 1943.
1. When the United States disburses its funds or pays its debts, it is
exercising a constitutional function or power; and its rights and
duties on commercial paper so issued are governed by federal rather
than local law. United States v. Guaranty Trust Co., 293 U. S.
340, distinguished. P. 366.
2. In the absence of an applicable Act of Congress, it is for the federal
courts to fashion the governing rule of federal law according to their
own standards. P. 367.
3. Reasons which at times may make state law an appropriate federal rule are singularly inappropriate in determining the rights
and duties of the United States on commercial paper which it issues,
since the desirability of a uniform rule in such cases is plain. P. 367.
4. Although the federal law merchant, developed under Swift v. Tyson,
represented general commercial law rather than a choice of a
federal rule designed to protect a federal right, it nevertheless
stands as a convenient source of reference for fashioning federal
rules applicable to such federal questions as are here involved.
P. 367.
5. The right of a drawee to recover from one who presents for payment a check upon which the endorsement of the payee was forged
accrues when the payment is made. P. 368.
6. The drawee, whether it be the United States or another, is not
chargeable with the knowledge of the signature of the payee.
P. 369.
7. If it is shown that the drawee on learning of the forgery did not
give prompt notice of it and that damage resulted, recovery by
the drawee is barred. P. 369.
That the drawee is the United States and the laches that of its
employees is immaterial.
8. The United States is not excepted from the general rules governing the rights and duties of drawees by the vastness of its
dealings or by the fact that it must act through agents. P. 369.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

9. To bar recovery by a drawee, the damage alleged to have been
occasioned by delay in giving notice of a forgery must be established
and not left to conjecture.* P. 369.
10. In this case, the showing as to damage resulting from delay of
the United States in giving notice of a forgery, held not sufficient
to bar recovery. P. 370.
It appeared that the presenting bank could still recover from
its endorser; and the only showing on the part of the latter was
that if a check cashed for a customer is returned unpaid or for
reclamation a short time after the date on which it is cashed, the
employees can often locate the person who cashed it.
130 F. 2d 93, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 619, to review the reversal of a
judgment against the United States in an action brought
by it to recover an amount paid on a forged Government
check.
Mr. Roswell Dean Pine, Jr., submitted for petitioners.
Mr. PaulA. Freund,with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Assistant Attorney General Shea, and Mr. Paul A.
Sweeney were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
On April 28, 1936, a check was drawn on the Treasurer
of the United States through the Federal Reserve Bank
of Philadelphia to the order of Clair A. Barner in the
amount of $24.20. It was dated at Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, and was drawn for services rendered by Barner to
the Works Progress Administration. The check was
placed in the mail addressed to Barner at his address in
Mackeyville, Pa. Barner never received the check.
Some unknown person obtained it in a mysterious manner
and presented it to the J. C. Penney Co. store in Clearfield,
Pa., representing that he was the payee and identifying
himself to the satisfaction of the employees of J. C. Penney

CLEARFIELD TRUST CO. v. U. S.
363

Opinion of the Court.

Co. He endorsed the check in the name of Barner and
transferred it to J. C. Penney Co. in exchange for cash
and merchandise. Barner never authorized the endorsement nor participated in the proceeds of the check. J. C.
Penney Co. endorsed the check over to the Clearfield Trust
Co. which accepted it as agent for the purpose of collection and endorsed it as follows: "Pay to the order of
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, Prior Endorsements Guaranteed."' Clearfield Trust Co. collected the
check from the United States through the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and paid the full amount
thereof to J. C. Penney Co. Neither the Clearfield Trust
Co. nor J. C. Penney Co. had any knowledge or suspicion
of the forgery. Each acted in good faith. On or before
May 10, 1936, Barner advised the timekeeper and the
foreman of the W. P. A. project on which he was employed that he had not received the check in question.
This information was duly communicated to other agents
of the United States and on November 30, 1936, Barner
executed an affidavit alleging that the endorsement of his
name on the check was a forgery. No notice was given
the Clearfield Trust Co. or J. C. Penney Co. of the forgery
until January 12, 1937, at which time the Clearfield Trust
Co. was notified. The first notice received by Clearfield
Trust Co. that the United States was asking reimbursement was on August 31, 1937.
This suit was instituted in 1939 by the United States
against the Clearfield Trust Co., the jurisdiction of the federal District Court being invoked pursuant to the provisions of § 24 (1) of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 41 (1).
The cause of action was based on the express guaranty
of prior endorsements made by the Clearfield Trust Co.
1 Guarantee

of all prior indorsements on presentment for payment
of such a check to Federal Reserve banks or member bank depositories
is required by Treasury Regulations. 31 Code of Federal Regulations
§ 102.32, § 202.33.

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

J. C. Penney Co. intervened as a defendant. The case
was heard on complaint, answer and stipulation of facts.
The District Court held that the rights of the parties were
to be determined by the law of Pennsylvania and that
since the United States unreasonably delayed in giving
notice of the forgery to the Clearfield Trust Co., it was
barred from recovery under the rule of Market Street Title
& Trust Co. v. Chelten Trust Co., 296 Pa. 230, 145 A. 848.
It accordingly dismissed the complaint. On appeal the
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 130 F. 2d 93. The
case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari which we
granted because of the importance of the problems raised
and the conflict between the decision below and SecurityFirstNat. Bank v. United States, 103 F. 2d 188, from the
Ninth Circuit.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that the
rule of Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, does not
apply to this action. The rights and duties of the United
States on commercial paper which it issues are governed
by federal rather than local law. When the United States
disburses its funds or pays its debts, it is exercising a
constitutional function or power. This check was issued
for services performed under the Federal Emergency Relief Act of 1935, 49 Stat. 115. The authority to issue the
check had its origin in the Constitution and the statutes
of the United States and was in no way dependent on the
laws of Pennsylvania or of any other state. Cf. Board of
Commissioners v. United States, 308 U. S. 343; Royal Indemnity Co. v. United States, 313 U. S. 289. The duties
imposed upon the United States and the rights acquired
by it as a result of the issuance find their roots in the same
federal sources.2 Cf. Deitrick v. Greaney, 309 U. S. 190;
2Various Treasury Regulations govern the payment and endorsement of government checks and warrants and the reimbursement of

the Treasurer of the United States by Federal Reserve banks and
member bank depositories on payment of checks or warrants bearing

CLEARFIELD TRUST CO. v. U. S.
363

Opinion of the Court.

D'Oench, Duhme & Co. v. Federal Deposit Ins. Corp.,
315 U. S. 447. In absence of an applicable Act of Congress
it is for the federal courts to fashion the governing rule
of law according to their own standards. United States v.
Guaranty Trust Co., 293 U. S. 340, is not opposed to this
result. That case was concerned with a conflict of laws
rule as to the title acquired by a transferee in Yugoslavia
under a forged endorsement. Since the payee's address
was Yugoslavia, the check had "something of the quality
of a foreign bill" and the law of Yugoslavia was applied to
determine what title the transferee acquired.
In our choice of the applicable federal rule we have occasionally selected state law. See Royal Indemnity Co.
v. United States, supra. But reasons which may make
state law at times the appropriate federal rule are singularly inappropriate here. The issuance of commercial
paper by the United States is on a vast scale and transactions in that paper from issuance to payment will commonly occur in several states. The application of state
law, even without the conflict of laws rules of the forum,
would subject the rights and duties of the United States to
exceptional uncertainty. It would lead to great diversity in results by making identical transactions subject to
the vagaries of the laws of the several states. The desirability of a uniform rule is plain. And while the federal law merchant, developed for about a century under
the regime of Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, represented general commercial law rather than a choice of a federal rule
designed to protect a federal right, it nevertheless stands
as a convenient source of reference for fashioning federal
rules applicable to these federal questions.
United States v. National Exchange Bank, 214 U. S.
302, falls in that category. The Court held that the United
a forged endorsement. See 31 Code of Federal Regulations §§ 202.0,
202.32-202.34. Forgery of the check was an offense against the United
States. Criminal Code § 148, 18 U. S. C. § 262.

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

States could recover as drawee from one who presented for
payment a pension check on which the name of the payee
had been forged, in spite of a protracted delay on the part
of the United States in giving notice of the forgery. The
Court followed Leather ManufacturersBank v. Merchants
Bank, 128 U. S. 26, which held that the right of the drawee
against one who presented a check with a forged endorsement of the payee's name accrued at the date of payment
and was not dependent on notice or demand. The theory
of the National Exchange Bank case is that he who presents a check for payment warrants that he has title to it
and the right to receive payment.' If he has acquired the
check through a forged endorsement, the warranty is
breached at the time the check is cashed. See Manufacturers Trust Co. v. Harriman National Bank Trust Co.,
146 Misc. 551, 262 N. Y. S. 482; Bergman v. Avenue State
Bank, 284 Ill. App. 516, 1 N. E. 2d 432. The theory of
the warranty has been challenged. Ames, The Doctrine
of Price v. Neal, 4 Harv. L. Rev., 297, 301-302. It has
been urged that "the right to recover is a quasi contractual
right, resting upon the doctrine that one who confers a
benefit in misreliance upon a right or duty is entitled to
restitution." Woodward, Quasi Contracts (1913) § 80;
FirstNationalBank v. City NationalBank, 182 Mass. 130,
134, 65 N. E. 24. But whatever theory is taken, we adhere
to the conclusion of the NationalExchange Bank case that
the drawee's right to recover accrues when the payment is
We need not determine whether the guarantee of prior endorsements adds to the drawee's rights. See Brannan's Negotiable Instruments Law (6th ed.) pp.. 330-331, 816-817; First National Bank v.
City National Bank, 182 Mass. 130, 134, 65 N. E. 24. Cf. Home
Ins. Co. v. Mercantile Trust Co., 219 Mo. App. 645, 284 S. W. 834.
Under the theory of the National Exchange Bank case, the warranty of
the title of him who presents the check for payment would be implied
in any event. See Philadelphia National Bank v. Fulton National
Bank, 25 F. 2d 995, 997.

CLEARFIELD TRUST CO. v. U. S.
363

Opinion of the Court.

made. There is no other barrier to the maintenance of
the cause of action. The theory of the drawee's responsibility where the drawer's signature is forged (Price v.
Neal, 3 Burr. 1354; United States v. Chase National Bank,
252 U. S. 485) is inapplicable here. The drawee, whether
it be the United States or another, is not chargeable with
the knowledge of the signature of the payee. United
States v. National Exchange Bank, supra, p. 317; State v.
Broadway National Bank, 153 Tenn. 113.
The NationalExchange Bank case went no further than
to hold that prompt notice of the discovery of the forgery
was not a condition precedent to suit. It did not reach
the question whether lack of prompt notice might be a defense. We think it may. If it is shown that the drawee
on learning of the forgery did not give prompt notice of it
and that damage resulted, recovery by the drawee is
barred. See Ladd & Tilton Bank v. United States, 30 F.
2d 334; United States v. National Rockland Bank, 35 F.
Supp. 912; United States v. National City Bank, 28 F.
Supp. 144. The fact that the drawee is the United States
and the laches those of its employees are not material.
Cooke v. United States, 91 U. S. 389, 398. The United
States as drawee of commercial paper stands in no different light than any other drawee. As stated in United
States v. National Exchange Bank, 270 U. S. 527, 534,
"The United States does business on business terms." It
is not excepted from the general rules governing the rights
and duties of drawees "by the largeness of its dealings and
its having to employ agents to do what if done by a principal in person would leave no room for doubt." Id., p.
535. But the damage occasioned by the delay must be
established and not left to conjecture. Cases such as
Market St. Title & Trust Co. v. Chelten Trust Co., supra,
place the burden on the drawee of giving prompt notice
of tha forgery-injury to the defendant being presumed
by the mere fact of delay. See London & River Plate

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Bank v. Bank of Liverpool, [1896] 1 Q. B. 7. But we do
not think that he who accepts a forged signature of a payee
deserves that preferred treatment. It is his neglect or
error in accepting the forger's signature which occasions
the loss. See Bank of Commerce v. Union Bank, 3 N. Y.
230, 236. He should be allowed to shift that loss to the
drawee only on a clear showing that the drawee's delay in
notifying him of the forgery caused him damage. See
Woodward, Quasi Contracts (1913) § 25. No such damage has been shown by Clearfield Trust Co. who so far as
appears can still recover from J. C. Penney Co. The only
showing on the part of the latter is contained in the stipulation to the effect that if a check cashed for a customer
is returned unpaid or for reclamation a short time after
the date on which it is cashed, the employees can often
locate the person who cashed it. It is further stipulated
that when J. C. Penney Co. was notified of the forgery in
the present case none of its employees was able to remember anything about the transaction or check in question.
The inference is that the more prompt the notice the more
likely the detection of the forger. But that falls short
of a showing that the delay caused a manifest loss.
Third National Bank v. Merchants' National Bank, 76
Hun' 475, 27 N. Y. S. 1070. It is but another way of saying that mere delay is enough.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE did
not participate in the consideration or decision of this
case.

