LABOR BOARD v. I. & M. ELECTRIC CO.

9

Syllabus.

operation to the limits of its territory. Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262; cf. South Covington &
C. S. Ry. Co. v. Covington,235 U. S. 537.11
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. INDIANA & MICHIGAN ELECTRIC CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 73. Argued November 13, 16, 1942.-Decided January 18, 1943.
1. An application to the Circuit Court of Appeals, under § 10 (e) of the
National Labor Relations Act, for leave to adduce additional evidence before the Board, is addressed to the sound judicial discretion
of the court. P. 16.
2. Although misconduct of the party making charges of unfair labor
practices does not deprive the National Labor Relations Board of
jurisdiction to issue a complaint and conduct a proceeding, such
misconduct may properly be considered by the Board in determining whether it should institute or continue a proceeding upon the
charges. P. 18.
16 This case involved a street-car line running between Covington,
Kentucky, and Cincinnati, Ohio, over a bridge connecting the two cities.
The City of Covington required that: (1) passengers must not ride
on car platforms unless the platforms were equipped with suitable
rails and barriers; (2) the cars must be kept clean, ventilated and
fumigated; (3) the temperature of the air in the cars must never fall
below a stated minimum; (4) in practical effect, that additional cars
must be run in Cincinnati as well as in Covington in excess of the Cincinnati franchise rights and in such manner as to make probable the
creation of serious impediments to other traffic in Cincinnati and conflict with Cincinnati regulations. The first two requirements were
sustained. The third was struck down because the opening and closing
of the car doors made compliance impossible; the fourth, because
of the likelihood that serious burdens would be imposed upon interstate
commerce by virtue of the impossibility of compliance with probable
conflicting regulations. These factors have not been shown to exist in
the present case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

3. An employer which had been found guilty by the National Labor
Relations Board of unfair labor practices and ordered to disestablish
a union found by the Board to be company dominated, petitioned
the Circuit Court of Appeals under § 10 (e) of the National Labor
Relations Act for an order that the Board hear and consider new
evidence of a course of depredations, including dynamitings, committed upon the employer's property during the pendency of the
case before the Board. It appeared that an officer and a member
of the union which filed the charges upon which the Board instituted
its proceedings had been convicted of participation in the depredations, and that they and others affiliated with this union and in
close relation to them had testified on behalf of the Board; and it
was alleged that the depredations were part of a conspiracy of this
union to influence the case. The action of the Circuit Court of
Appeals in granting the petition on the ground that the new evidence
was material to the credibility of Board witnesses and on the issue
of company domination, held, upon a review of the whole record,
not to constitute an abuse of its discretion. P. 29.
124 F. 2d 50, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 316 U. S. 657, to review a decree remanding
a cause to the National Labor Relations Board with directions to hear additional evidence. See 20 N. L. R. B.
989.

Mr. Ernest A. Gross, with whom SolicitorGeneral Fahy
and Messrs. Richard S. Salant, Robert B. Watts, and
Morris P. Glushien were on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Murray Seasongood and Eli F. Seebirt for
Indiana and Michigan Electric Co., respondent.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The court below granted respondent Indiana and Michigan Electric Company's petition to remand the case
to the Labor Board to hear additional evidence as to a
course of depredations, including dynamitings, committed, it is alleged, by Local B-9 of the International Broth-

LABOR BOARD v. I. & M. ELECTRIC CO.
9

11

Opinion of the Court.

erhood of Electrical Workers, on the Company's properties
during the pendency of the case. It directed that the
Board make findings on such evidence, include,it in the
transcript, and make such modifications, if any, in its
order, as the evidence might require. The court expressly
refrained from passing on questions as to the bias and
partisanship of the Trial Examiner and the sufficiency
of the findings and of the evidence, raised by the Board's
petition for enforcement and the answer thereto. The
importance of the questions raised to enforcement of the
Act prompted us to grant certiorari.'
For present purposes we take to be true the facts stated
in the petition or offer of proof on the basis of which
the court below directed a remand. These facts were
stated on oath, and have not been denied. Petitioner
says that we must hold that even if true they are immaterial. On this assumption of truth the case is as follows:
On November 12,1938, Samuel Guy, the Business Manager of Local B-9 of the International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, filed in amended form with the Board
charges that the Company had been guilty of several
unfair labor practices. On the same day the Board
through its Regional Director issued a complaint against
the Company, setting November 28, 1938, as a hearing
date, and events of violence ensued in the following sequence as related to the Company's steps in defense of
the case:
The Company filed its answer on November 23, 1938.
On the following day, four days before the hearing, cables
at one of the Company's South Bend substations were dynamited. The hearings proceeded, and the Trial Examiner's intermediate report recommended generally against
* the Company.
1316 U. S. 657. The decisions below are reported at 20 N. L. R. B.
989 and 124 F. 2d 50.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

On September 1, 1939, the Company filed its exceptions
to the intermediate report. On September 5, three of its
transmission line poles were sawed off, and on September
8, a transmission line tower was dynamited. On October
17, 1939, the oral hearing on the exceptions was set before
the Board at Washington for November 9, 1939. Two
days later another transmission line tower was dynamited.
On October 28, two transmission poles at different locations were dynamited. Another transmission tower was
so destroyed on October 30, ten days before the oral hearing, and two more at different parts of the system on November 23,1939. All carried high voltage lines, and some
were located along public highways or railroad tracks.
On February 19, 1940, the Company filed with the
Board a petition to reopen the case and receive further evidence. This petition alleged the commission of the depredations upon its property as set forth above and further
that: John R. Marks, Assistant Business Manager of Local B-9, and Earl Freeman, one of its members, both of
whom had been witnesses against the Company, and three
others, were arrested after February 1, 1940, and charged
with the commission of some or all of the depredations,
and with having conspired to commit them all. Except
Marks, each had made confessions stating that Marks
paid them sums of money aggregating $2,325 for committing such acts. One of them stated that Marks had
caused the first dynamiting to intimidate the Company
in connection with the hearing and three stated that he
had caused the later ones to intimidate it in connection
with the oral argument. The Company proposed by the
evidence of dynamiting to discredit Marks and Freeman,
on whose testimony the Trial Examiner appeared to rely.
It also sought to discredit Guy, who also had been a witness, on the claim that he knew, or must have known, of
the use of the $2,325 of the Union's money for the purpose
of destroying respondent's property. But it claimed

LABOR BOARD v. I. & M. ELECTRIC CO.

13

Opinion of the Court.

9

more. It asserted evidence of a conspiracy to destroy
property to influence the pending case, which it contended
was not a good-faith labor controversy, but an unlawful
effort of Local B-9 to coerce the Company to require its
employees to join the union.
On February 28, 1940, the Board denied the Company's
petition. It held that "the matters recited therein have
no relation to the issues in this proceeding." The Board
went on to make findings on the issues, expressly reciting
that it did so "upon the entire record in the case." While
the Board did not designate all of the testimony for
printing, it has certified it all to us, it has stricken no testimony of any witness in question from the record and has
made no finding that any specific parts of it were not relied
upon.
The report of the Trial Examiner, Dudley, had held
the Company's attitude to be hostile and obstructive
toward the effort to unionize its men, relying substantially
on events as to which Guy, Marks, and Freeman had testified. The Board findings made but little reference to
the activities of Guy and no reference at all to Marks,
but reached the same conclusion as to the attitude of the
2

Section 10 of the Act provides: "(c) The testimony taken . . .

shall be reduced to writing and filed with the Board. Thereafter,
in its discretion, the Board may upon notice take further testimony or
hear argument. . . . (d) Until a transcript of the record in a case
shall have been filed in a court, as hereinafter provided, the Board
may at any time, upon reasonable notice and in such manner as it
shall deem proper, modify or set aside, in whole or in part, any finding or order made or issued by it. (e) The Board . . . shall certify
and file in the court a transcript of the entire record in the proceeding, including the pleadings and testimony upon which such order
was entered and the findings and order of the Board. Upon such filing,
the court shall cause notice thereof to be served upon such person,
and thereupon shall have jurisdiction of the proceeding and of the
question determined therein, and shall have power to . . . enter upon
the pleadings, testimony, and proceedings set forth in such transcript
a decree . . ." 49 Stat. 454, 29 U. S. C. § 160.

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.-

Company. The examiner had recommended ordering
immediate and full reinstatement of Freeman and that he
be made whole for all lost wages. The Board did not
follow that recommendation. The examiner had recommended an order that the Company withdraw all recognition from respondent Michiana Association as representative of employees upon the ground of company
promotion and domination, and the Board so found and
so ordered. The examiner had also recommended that
the Company be ordered to cease and desist coercing employees in their right, among other things, to "join or
assist the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local B-9." The Board order dropped the name of
the union, but ordered respondent generally to cease and
desist from interfering with its employees in the exercise
of their right "to join or assist labor organizations."
On December 13, 1940, the Board petitioned for enforcement of its order and on July 29, 1941, the Company
petitioned the Circuit Court of Appeals for a remand to
the Board pursuant to § 10 (e) of the National Labor Relations Act. This petition referred to the earlier petition
to the Board and set forth under oath in addition that:
Marks, Freeman and another member of the Brotherhood
had been convicted of one of the dynamitings described in
the petition and sentenced to terms of from two to fourteen years in the state penitentiary; and two others had
pleaded guilty of other of -the depredations. Marks had
said he obtained all of the money to purchase dynamite
and pay the dynamiters from the treasury of International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local B-9. The petition also recited that during the hearings the Trial Examiner asked a conference with the company attorney and
urged settlement of the case. He was told of the dynamiting of November 24, 1938, and given references to articles
about the practices and methods of the officers of this
union, and to the record in Boyle v. United States, 259 F.

LABOR BOARD v. I. & M. ELECTRIC CO.
9

15

Opinion of the Court.

803, in which the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit had affirmed a conviction of Michael J. Boyle, its
International Vice-President, and severely condemned his
methods in labor matters. The examiner replied, "Well,
your Company will be required some time to recognize
B-9 and you might as well do it now." On three separate
later occasions different attorneys or officers of the Board
were informed of the depredations, but continued to urge
the Company to cease resistance in the case. The truth
of these statements has not been denied. Finally, the
Company asserted in its petition to the Court that on
reopening it would be able to prove that the Board's witrfesses (not limited to Guy and Marks and Freeman) were
of such character that they are not entitled to credit and
belief, and that the case had no relation to the purposes
of the National Labor Relations Act.
The court below stated as one ground of the Company's
case for remand that the tendered evidence was material
for the purpose of "impeaching the credibility of witnesses
before the Board on whose testimony the Board relied
for its finding of ultimate facts." After referring to the
testimony of Guy and Marks, it said that "at the time of
the trial, the evidence adduced on the trial of the criminal
cases in the Indiana State Court involving these witnesses,
was not available to respondent or to the Board. The
new evidence is of such character that its consideration
by the Board would probably produce a different result."
In support of its remand it went on to say that the question whether the supervisory employees whose activities
had been found by the Board to constitute coercion on the
part of the Company "were acting on their own behalf
and that of their co-employees, or at the behest of the
respondent, is the crux of the case. .

.

. The new evi-

dence may throw some light on the issue of employer
domination."

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.

16

Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Section 10 (e) of the National Labor Relations Act
authorizes the Circuit Court of Appeals to order additional
evidence to be taken when it is shown "to the satisfaction
of the court that such additional evidence is material,"
and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to
adduce the evidence at the hearing.' In Southport
Petroleum Co. v. Labor Board, 315 U. S. 100, 104, we
sustained the Board's contention and held that an application for leave to adduce additional evidence thereunder
"was addressed to the sound judicial discretion of the
court." The Board does not suggest that a different construction should be put upon the Act when the court below
decides against, rather than for, it. The qjuestion it has
submitted for our decision is whether the court below
"acted arbitrarily" and "abused its discretion." Thus,
in order to decide this case in favor of the Board we would
have to hold not merely that the evidence of dynamiting
would be a matter of indifference in our own view of the
case, but that the court designated by statute to exercise
discretion in the matter and which desired to know the
facts about it before passing on the sufficiency of the evidence and the impartiality of the examiner and which
thought the finder of the facts should hear and consider
such evidence, must not only have been in error but must
also have abused its judicial discretion.
The Board argues that the decision below must be reversed on the grounds that the court erred in holding
that misconduct of the complainant before the Board
would go to the Board's jurisdiction; that, as it contends,
the court held that a remand might result in the impeach349

Stat. 454-455, 29 U. S. C. § 160 (e):

".... If either party shall apply to the court for leave to adduce
additional evidence and shall show to the satisfaction of the court that
such additional evidence is material and that there were reasonable
grounds for the failure to adduce such evidence in the hearing before
the Board, its member, agent, or agency, the court may order such
additional evidence to be taken before the Board, its member, agent,
or agency, and to be made a part of the transcript. .. ."

LABOR BOARD v. I. & M. ELECTRIC CO.
9 -Opinion

17

of the Court.

ment of the credibility of Guy, Marks and Freeman, whose
testimony was either cumulative (being corroborated by
other witnesses) or entirely immaterial and not relied upon
by the Board; and that there is other substantial evidence
in the record to support the Board's decision. The specifications of error in the petition for certiorari did not, however, take this narrow compass, but extended to the propriety of the ruling of the court below upon the whole
case.4 We have not confined ourselves to the scope of the
Board's view of the case, and have examined all the evidence in the certified transcript, and not merely the evidence set forth in the printed record.'
We cannot agree with the view of the Circuit Court of
Appeals that the evidence might disqualify Local B-9
from making the charge of violation against the Company
or deprive the charge of force and effect, and thereby defeat the Board's jurisdiction to hear the case.
The Act requires a charge before the Board may issue
a complaint, but omits any requirement that the charge
be filed by a labor organization or an employee.' In the
legislative hearings Senator Wagner, sponsor of the Bill,
strongly objected to a limitation on the classes of persons
who could lodge complaints with the Board. He said it
was often not prudent for the workman himself to make
a complaint against his employer, and that strangers to
4 "1. The court below erred in remanding the case to the Board for
the taking of additional evidence as to the unlawful conduct of the
union which filed the charge against respondent.
"2. The court below erred in remanding the case to the Board in
order that the testimony of certain witnesses might be impeached.
"3. The court below erred in failing to enforce the order of the
Board."
5Stromberg v. California,283 U. S. 359, 368; McCandless v. Furlaud,
293 U. S. 67, 71.
G§ 10 (b), 49 Stat. 453, 29 U. S. C. § 160 (b) provides that "Whenever it is charged that any person has engaged or is engaging in any
such unfair labor practice, the Board . . . shall have power to issue

a complaint ..

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

the labor contract were therefore permitted to make
the charge The charge is not proof. It merely sets in
motion the machinery of an inquiry. When a Board complaint issues, the question is only the truth of its accusations. The charge does not even serve the purpose of a
pleading. Dubious character, evil or unlawful motives,
or bad faith of the informer cannot deprive the Board of
its jurisdiction to conduct the inquiry.
While we hold that misconduct of the union would not
deprive the Board of jurisdiction, this does not mean that
the Board may not properly consider such misconduct as
material to its own decision to entertain and proceed upon
the charge. The Board has wide discretion in the issue
of complaints. Indeed it did not act on a charge earlier
made by the C. I. 0. against the same employer. It is
not required by the statute to move on every charge; it is
merely enabled to do so. 8

It may decline to be imposed

7

Hearings before the Committee on Education and Labor, United
States Senate, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., on S. 1958, Washington, Government Printing Office, Part 3 (1935), pp. 439-442.
8Compare the following statistics on the disposition of charges filed
with the Board:
Percentage of total cases on docket

Cases closed before issuance of
for fiscal years ending:
complaint:
1937t 19385
1939*
1941**
By settlement ............. 32.1
34.5
27.9
30.3
By dismissal .............. 13.5
13.4
7.6
9.7
By withdrawal ............
7.4
17.7
17.8
20.6
By other means ...........
.2
1.2
.5
.2
Cases disposed of after issuance
of complaint ........
.....
3.0
2.5
5.5
Cases pending ................. 43.6
30.7
40.7
tReport of the National Labor Relations Board (1937)
TReport of the National Labor Relations Board (1938)
*Report of the National Labor Relations Board (1939) 34.
"Report of the National Labor Relations Board (1941) 26.
Statistics for 1940 are set up on a slightly different basis, but indicate
a trend like that of the years set forth above. Report of the National
Labor Relations Board (1940) 20.

LABOR BOARD v. I. & M. ELECTRIC CO.
9

19

Opinion of the Court.

upon or to submit its process to abuse. The Board might
properly withhold or dismiss its own complaint if it should
appear that the charge is so related to a course of violence
and destruction, carried on for the purpose of coercing an
employer to help herd its employees into the complaining union, as to constitute an abuse of the Board's
process.
The Company claims support for this inference as to
the purpose of the organizers in the testimony of Guy,
Business Manager of Local B-9. It appears that he and
Marks, his assistant, called on Thomas F. English, operating head of the Company, in the Spring of 1937. Guy
testified that the purpose was "along the lines" of getting the assistance of English in causing the employees
to come into Local B-9 instead of into a C. I. 0. union
or an independent union. Guy said, "we decided" to
"take over the organization" of the men, that "we had
jurisdiction in this particular community or part of the
State, and if they were going to be organized that they
rightfully belonged in our organization." Their proposition to the Company that it cause the men to join Local
B-9 was a proposal to violate the National Labor Relations Act, whose purpose is to protect the workmen from
employer pressure and leave them free to choose for themselves whether, and with whom, they will associate. The
Company refused, and English later warned that the organizers must cease representing to the men that the
Company favored Local B-9.
Later another meeting was called by a Field Examiner
for the National Labor Relations Board, attended by the
Field Examiner, Guy, Marks and Company representatives. On questioning, Guy recalled that Boyle, VicePresident of the Brotherhood, had also been there. The
company attorney made an offer of proof at the hearing
that this meeting was held on May 5, 1938, at the instance
of the Field Examiner, who stated that a series of inci-

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

dents recited constituted a violation by the Company
of the Labor Relations Act and "asked Mr. Boyle what
recommendation he would make." The Trial Examiner
rejected the proof.'
Apart from the materiality of the additional evidence
on the question of the Board's discretion as to whether
it would institute or continue a case on the recommendation and charges of this informer under the circumstances
now appearing, its materiality on other branches of the
case is sufficiently established to support the Court's exercise of discretion in ordering taking of new testimony.
We think this course of violence and lawlessness concurrent with the Board proceedings, apparently instigated by
those who stand to gain from the Board's decisions, participated in by parties and witnesses, may not be said to
lack possible materiality on other issues of the case. The
question goes to the fairness of giving absolute finality to
the Board's findings of fact where there has been a refusal
to hear and incorporate in the record such evidence as may
be produced of such a conspiracy.
The testimony ordered to be heard goes to the credibility of Marks and Freeman, and perhaps to that of Guy,
three witnesses whom the Board's staff thought useful to
call, and on whom the examiner plainly relied. The
Board expressly accepted and relied upon the version of
events as to which Guy testified." Local B-9 was a party
9This was on November 28, 1938, the first day of the hearing.
On December 9, 1938, the last day of the hearing, Charles B. Calvert,
English's assistant, testified without objection that Boyle's response
was "I guess that is about it."
o The Board found that: Earl Livelsberger, one of the Company's
general line foremen, and Glenn Carlton, his assistant, were among
those invited to attend a meeting of Local B-9 in April, 1937. During
the course of the meeting, Guy, learning from several Company employees that they were sitting in a car outside the meeting hall, left
it and invited them to come to the meeting. Carlton declined, stating

LABOR BOARD v. I. & M. ELECTRIC CO.
9

21

Opinion of the Court.

to the proceeding and appeared throughout the hearings
by Guy, who managed its interests. He, the Business
Manager, was the first witness; and Marks, his assistant,
the second. Aside from English, operating head of the
Company, and employees who were members of what the
that he could get the information anyway. Carlton and Livelsberger
were in a position to observe, and did observe, who attended the meeting. "The fact that Guy's attention was called to the presence of
Livelsberger and Carlton indicates that the respondent's employees
were aware of the supervisory surveillance of their meeting place.
* . * Although Livelsberger and Carlton were invited to the meeting
and therefore their attendance at the meeting itself would not have
discouraged membership in the Brotherhood, it is clear, and we find
that their stationing themselves outside the meeting place was for
the purpose of scrutinizing those who entered and thereby discouraging employees from attending such meetings." It also found that
since Livelsberger and Carlton were supervisory employees whose
activities were attributable to the Company, their conduct constituted
a violation by the Company of the rights guaranteed the employees
in § 7 of the Act.
Carlton and Livelsberger, called as witnesses for the Company, admitted being across the street from the hall at the time of the meeting. Livelsberger testified that he had belonged to the Brotherhood
for three years after 1919, but got "disgusted" and dropped out;
and that he did not go into the meeting because "I didn't see anyone
there that I cared much about association in membership with." Carlton testified to the same effect as to his reason for staying out. There
were about fourteen men at this meeting, including Claude F. Buckley,
Dewey Edwards, Guy, Albert Otis and Lester Shields.
Frank Claeys testified that he saw Carlton outside, and "wanted to
get out of there," but that he had nevertheless attended the meeting.
Guy testified that Buckley, and probably others, had told him of Carlton's presence outside the hall, and that when he went out and invited
Carlton to attend and learn firsthand what was going on, he was told
by Carlton that he would get the information anyway. Ralph L.
Hoblitzel was the only one to corroborate this statement, and Carlton
denied having made it.
As to Buckley, Claeys, Edwards, Hoblitzel, Otis and Shields, all
Board witnesses and affiliated with Local B-9, see the following
discussion.

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Board found to be a company-dominated union,1 the
Board called twenty witnesses. Of these, fourteen besides Guy, Marks and Freeman, were affiliated with Local
B-9.12 Of these fourteen, eight had come to work shortly
before or during Local B-9's organizing campaign which,
as Guy and Marks testified and the Board found, began
in the Fall of 1935."8 One of these, Buckley, admitted
knowing Boyle, and Marks testified that he knew Buckley
before he came to work for the Company. Marks also
testified that he began organizational efforts by getting
in touch with Buckley and Shields, who, like Buckley,
came to work in 1935. Buckley called the first meeting
for Local B-9 among the Company's employees. Edwards, an officer of Local B-9, was another of the new
employees who figured in the case. He testified that he
had known Marks for approximately four years and had
seen him "quite a number of times" and in "a number of
places." Otis, another 1935 arrival, went from Chicago,
where he was employed at the time of the hearing, to South
Bend to see a sick friend whom he had not seen or corresponded with for a year. On the way he happened to
see Edwards out in a field hunting, and talked to him
there. This was around Thanksgiving time of 1938.
The South Bend substation was dynamited November 24,
1938. The .company attorney on cross-examination
asked "What did you talk about?" Otis answered: "That
11Witnesses presented by the Board and affiliated with respondent
Michiana were: Geraldine Carlson, Ray M. Collins, Taylor Edgell,

George S.Holmes, and Nelson D. Lambert.

Claude F. Buckley, Frank Claeys, Ernest Durfey, Dewey Edwards,
Forrest Elkins, E. J. Ernst, Charles A. Havlin, Ralph L. Hoblitzel,
Walter Hulwick, Russell H. Kidder, Eugene S. Lee, Albert Otis, Earl
Seeley, and Lester Shields. Three others of the Board's witnesses were
affiliated with the C. I. 0.
13Otis, April, 1935; Edwards, May, 1935; Buckley and Hulwick,
July, 1935; Shields, August, 1935; Durfey, October, 1935; Seeley, October, 1936; Elkins, May, 1937. Kidder came to work in September,
1934.
12

LABOR BOARD v. I. & M. ELECTRIC CO.
9

23

Opinion of the Court.

is none of your business either." The Board attorney
then objected to the question, which was never answered
beyond a denial that they talked about the Company.
Otis was twenty-seven years old at the time of the hearing and had worked for at least ten public utility concerng
and one manufacturing plant in a short period. Asked on
cross-examination the reason for his peculiarly acute
memory in respect to the period of his employment by
another electric company, he answered that it was because
"an incident happened that isn't any affair of the court."
Freeman, one of those convicted of the dynamiting, was
a witness, testified at length as to alleged unfair practices
of the Company, as did others affiliated with Local B-9,
including those mentioned above.
It is idle in this context to say that because the Board
now denies it relied on the evidence of the two who were
convicted, because it was willing to omit their testimony
from the record, and because it rejected the examiner's
recommended relief to Freeman, the door should be closed
to any inquiry about the knowledge or responsibility of
members of this group for these acts of violence. The
items recited and many others revealed by the transcript
of testimony, as well as the printed record, give support
for the lower court's belief that the evidence, if taken,
might change the results. The convicted witnesses and
many of the others on whom the Board must have relied
were not only co-members of Local B-9, but they were
co6perating in promoting its fight against the Company.
It is unrealistic to say that this union was granted nothing
by the Board's order or that no relief has been given to this
particular union. The C. I. 0. had practically withdrawn 14 and the Board's order disestablishes respondent
14A

C. I. 0. charter had issued to a group of Company employees in

April, 1937. This group met with little success, and, failing to get the
assistance of an organizer from the main body, the men transferred to

Local B-9 in October, 1937.
513236-43-vol. 318----6

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Michiana. This not only leaves the field free to Local
B-9 and breaks up the only center of resistance to it, but
the Board prohibits any interference with the employees'
right "to join or assist labor organizations." That includes
this one, and for practical purposes at this time, none other.
Local B-9 was the complainant, its effort to organize
was at stake, and the relations shown are such that crossexamination to ascertain whether the witnesses had any
part in such violence would appear proper. It must be
remembered that not only is the credibility of these men
involved, but the decision itself turns on an interpretation
of their acts and of the acts and attitudes of supervisors
toward them and whether the employees were in good
faith in testifying to the reasons for preferring an association of their own to Local B-9. We see no reason why
witnesses so identified with the organizing effort of the
dynamiters should not be questioned on a subject that
might reveal bias in their testimony and might also explain
acts of alleged discrimination against them.
We especially see no reason for holding that officers or
members of Local B-9 should be spared such inquiry when
the subject was thought by the Trial Examiner a fit one
on which to examine the head of the employees' association. One George S. Holmes was president of respondent
Michiana, which the Board holds to be the product of
unlawful company activity and orders to be disestablished.
He was a distribution engineer who had been employed
by the Company for many years. After testifying to his
understanding of the reasons for the formation of Michiana
as being the fact of outside organizations "creating a disturbance and jeopardizing the present working conditions," the relative amounts of dues 15 and directness of
Marks testified that dues in the Brotherhood were 11/2% of average
earnings, and initiation fees $10 for journeymen and $7 for helpers.
Dues for Michiana were 250 per month, with an initiation fee of $1.
15

LABOR BOARD v. I. & M. ELECTRIC CO.
9

25

Opinion of the Court.

approach to the company officials through Michiana, 6 he
was questioned by the Trial Examiner. One of the questions put by the Trial Examiner was "Supposing that there
was an organization formed to throw bombs at the company's plant every Saturday night, would you become
president of such an organization?" Holmes said that he
doubted that extremely. The examiner also asked him,
in connection with his attitude as to the proper technique
of bargaining with the Company, "Would you suggest cutting down electricity and turning off electric lights?" He
was told by Holmes that ". . . if you get the entire
community adversely prejudiced against you, you would
have tough going, regardless of how you acted toward the
company." If questioning as to hypothetical bombings
was deemed material and relevant to discredit Holmes'
claim of independence of Company domination, which is
the only purpose apparent, we would think it a little difficult to contend that it is improper to inquire as to the attitudes of those closely associated with those convicted of
actual bombings as to their knowledge and attitude in
relation to them.
It is at least reasonably conceivable that further inquiry
into the depredations will bear not only upon the effect to
be given the testimony of any further participants or conspirators thereby disclosed, but also upon that of witnesses whose testimony might without such inquiry be
taken to indicate company domination of Michiana.
Many supervisory and other employees voiced opposition
16 According to the testimony of Guy and Marks, grievances as to
wages and working conditions were considered by local bodies set up
within B-9, and then referred to Marks, who would endeavor to adjust
them. If he failed, the matter would be taken up with Guy in Chicago,
who, with the executive board and membership of the main bodyvariously stated by Guy to number from 2,500 to 3,500-would decide
the matter. Local bodies apparently had no power to settle their own
grievances by approaching the management.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S

to the intrusion of "outsiders" into their affairs." Present knowledge and further investigation of the depredations seem not altogether unlikely to lend credibility to
their testimony that they had acted to protect their own
interests and not as participants in Company interference.
Testimony of employees that they organized Michiana
because they did not wish to. accept the leadership of
Local B-9, and that Michiana was the product of their
own preference rather than of Company pressure or interference, has been wholly disbelieved by the Board. It
17

Two examples suffice:

The Board made a number of findings with respect to the activity
of Jack Betly, a lineman employed by the Company since 1929, who
had been particularly active in the organization of Michiana. It
quoted from a petition which he had circulated. The petition was
entitled "S. A. F. E.", and read in the part quoted by the Board as
follows: "We, the older men in the employ of this company, believe
that we have men among us that can intelligently arbitrate with the
management without resorting to radicalism and dictation of outsiders. Our meeting will be posted in the near future." Some time
before Betly got out his petition he had been solicited by Otis, Shields,
and Marks to rejoin the Brotherhood, to which he had belonged in
1915. According to his testimony, they had called him out in the
evening to their car, and had refused to come into his home, thus
causing him some uneasiness. He was invited to attend, and did
attend, the first Local B-9 meeting. He testified further that at a
later meeting he had difficulties with Otis who "took a slough" at him
and bumped his head against a wall, and that shortly after this he
went home and got out his petition.
The Board also quoted at some length from the testimony of Harter,
a foreman, as to his questioning of employees with respect to Local B-9
matters, and found that such questioning constituted a violation by
the Company of the Act. His story was that the men he questioned
were members of his line crew who had been acting "tight" and as
though they had more on their minds than linemen working on charged
inter-city power lines should have; that his questioning divulged
similar visits by Shields and Otis upon two of the three men in his
crew; and that outside unions were "bothering . . . I know I was
wondering if they was going to move their trunks in and put up at
my place, or whether I would have to move out and let them in."

LABOR BOARD v. I. & M. ELECTRIC CO.

27

Opinion of the Court.

9

might well be rejected when Local B-9 appears only in the
light of an ardent but lawful champion of workmen's welfare. The testimony of many employees was critical of
Local B-9, but the grounds were not clearly articulated.
But their aversion to the B-9 leadership, disbelieved by
the Board when no very tangible reason was brought out
to explain it, may be entirely credible when it appears that
even poorly explained apprehensions were justified and
that there was ample reason for avoiding entanglement
with the men who officered Local B-9 and who are now
convicted-injuring no doubt the cause of those whom
they were trying to "take over."
Undoubtedly, an element of fair judicial discretion
vested in the court below consists of respect for a wide
range of discretion in the Board itself as to when it should
or should not inquire into allegations of violence or threats
of violence by witnesses or parties before it. It must not
be overlooked, however, that the evidence on which the
Court reopened this case was substantially different from
that on which the Board refused to do so.18 Charges that
violence has been threatened or encouraged are frequent
and easy in negotiations that proceed in an air of belligerency. Both sides regard labor relations as tough business,
and not only vital interests but passions and sensitivities
as to prestige are involved. Neither side is lightly to be
held answerable for acts where responsibility cannot be
fixed. Few tasks of leadership are more difficult than
Facts appearing in the petition to the Court not contained in the
petition to the Board were: the conviction of men who had earlier
confessed, and of Marks, who had not confessed; and the efforts by
the Trial Examiner during the hearing, and by other attorneys or
officials of the Board after the hearing, to get the Company to consent
to disestablishment of Michiana despite charges that the Local had
caused the dynamitings.
It also appeared from the Board's response to the petition to the
Court that at least one of the non-employee dynamiters hired by
Marks was also a member of the Brotherhood.
1I

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

those which confront those who represent labor. If they
are gentle, they are often unheeded; and if they are blunt,
they are often held up as menacing. The Board is not
required to sidetrack proceedings involving an employer's
violation of the labor law while it explores irrelevant
derelictions of parties or witnesses or acts of unknown or
irresponsible persons.
The Act accords a great degree of finality to the Board's
findings of fact, and this Court has been insistent that the
admonition of the Act be strictly observed. But courts
which are required upon a limited review to lend their
enforcement powers to the Board's orders are granted
some discretion to see that the hearings out of which the
conclusive findings emanate do not shut off a party's right
to produce evidence or conduct cross-examination material to the issue. The statute demands respect for the
judgment of the Board as to what the evidence proves.
But the court is given discretion to see that before a
party's rights are finally foreclosed his case has been fairly
heard. Findings cannot be said to have been fairly
reached unless material evidence which might impeach,
as well as that which will support, its findings, is heard
and weighed.
We will not assume in the circumstances of this case
that the Board will in any event refuse to modify its conclusions. Since the court below has not yet passed on
the issue of sufficiency of the evidence to sustain the finding that Michiana is a company-dominated union, any
assumption that it is such can be only tentative unless we
are to deny the Company the right to review granted by
the Act. One of the very issues yet to be decided, and on
which the court below desires the light of additional evidence, is whether Michiana was, as its officers and members testified, a true employee organization, formed to get
away from Local B-9, or whether it was a company tool,
as the Board has inferred from testimony, much of it from

LABOR BOARD v. I. & M. ELECTRIC CO.
9

.29

Opinion of the Court.

Local B-9 sources. We have no warrant to assume that
the Board will find that it is company-dominated, no matter what the additional proof may show as to the motives
of the men who organized it. We do not prejudge the
issue-we hold only that it is not unreasonable or an abuse
of judicial power to reserve judgment on it until the full
story has been heard and judged by the Board itself.
The Labor Relations Act contemplates submission of
disputes as to labor practices of employers to reasoned
and impartial determination after full and fair hearing.
If by that procedure there is found wrong-doing on both.
sides, the Board can act to prevent the employer wrongdoing prohibited by the Act, even though it can not reach
other wrong-doing. But the process of presenting cases
to it must be kept free from forces generating bias or intimidation. Dynamiting or display of force by either
party has no place in the procedures which lead to reasoned judgments. The influence of lawless force directed
toward parties or witnesses to proceedings during their
pendency is so sinister and undermining of the process of
adjudication itself that no court should regard it with indifference or shelter it from exposure and inquiry. The
remedies of the law are substitutes for violence, not supplements to violence, and it is proper that courts and administrative bodies so employ their discretion as to dispel
any belief that use of dynamite will advance legal
remedies.
Further delay in this case is to be regretted, particularly
in view of the long delay that has already occurred. We
set out in the footnote the facts in this regard, which we
do not recite as any criticism of the Board, which in turn
has suggested no criticism of the Company.19
19 The complaint was served November 15, 1938 and the hearing set
for November 28. A continuance was requested by the Company on
the ground of illness of its attorney, but was refused. The Board presented its evidence in six days, the Company in three. The hearings

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

In view of the whole record the order of the court below
is not arbitrary or unreasonable or an abuse of discretion.
It is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

and MR.

with whom MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAs

JUSTICE MURPHY concur, dissenting.

A desire to punish dynamiters does not justify a failure
to protect respondent's employees, innocent of wrong-

doing, in their freedom either to bargain collectively
through representatives of their own choosing or to be
represented by no one at all. Without relying in the
slightest degree on the evidence of persons convicted of or
charged with dynamiting, the Board found the Association to be company-dominated. Its order gave no benefit
to anyone even remotely suspected of complicity in the
crimes charged. Instead it carefully eliminated such individuals, and the Union, from the scope of its award and
gave no credence to the suspect witnesses. The sole issue
for the courts to determine is whether there is, in the tesclosed on December 9, 1938, and the Trial Examiner's intermediate
report was filed on July 27, 1939-a little more than seven months
later. The Company's exceptions were filed September 1, 1939, and
.the Board set them for hearing on November 9, 1939. The Board had
not decided the case when, on February 19, 1940, the Company
petitioned it for a rehearing with regard to the evidence of the depredations obtained by the arrest of all, and the confessions of some,
of the participants, all occurring since February 1, 1940. Nine days
later the Board decided the case. On December 13, 1940, the Board
petitioned the court below for enforcement of its order, and the court
rendered its decision on December 12, 1941. On February 19, 1942,
after the time for filing a petition for rehearing had expired, the
Board moved for leave to file it out of time. The court denied the
motion, and on March 9, 1942, three days before the time to petition
this Court for a writ for certiorari had expired, the Board asked and
obtained an extension of time to April 11, 1942, in which to fie its
petition. The petition was filed on that date, granted on May 25, and
argument in this Court was completed November 16, 1942.

LABOR BOARD v. I. & M. ELECTRIC CO.
9

31

BLAcx, J., dissenting.

timony of witnesses untainted by any suspicion, sufficient
evidence to support the Board findings that the employer
has (1) set up a company-dominated union contrary to
§ 8 (2) of the Act, and (2) interfered with, restrained and
coerced its employees in exercising their right to belong
to the union of their choice contrary to § 8 (1). The
Board order, requiring disestablishment of the dominated
union and cessation of interference, contemplates only
that this Company shall not intimidate or coerce its employees-that it shall leave them free. This freedom is
their legal right; and crime by some of them cannot justify
the Company in destroying the freedom of all, or even a
few of them. Under our government guilt is personal;
it cannot, or at least should not, attaint the innocent; it
cannot, or should not provide an excuse for one injured
by it to invade the liberty of others. In short, the crimes
of some of these employees, or of the non-employee members of a union, cannot have relevance to the two issues
the Board decided.
I agree with the Court that alleged errors in the administration of the hearing by the trial examiner or by the
Board officials are not properly before us. Such questions
can be considered when the case is properly reviewed by
the court below. Having agreed with the Court that this
question is now irrelevant, I cannot join in discussing, as
the Court does, the propriety of alleged statements to one
Boyle, and reserve all opinion on this phase of the case.
If the evidence respondent asks to offer has any relevance whatever, it must be for one of two reasons: that
(a) the Union's purposes in filing the complaint were not
salutary and that the character of its activities was such
that the Board might upon hearing the proffered evidence
decline to exercise any jurisdiction to protect the rights of
employees, even the innocent; or (b) that the Board's
witnesses were of such character as to be unworthy of
belief.

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

The first of these grounds surely has no real merit.
There is of course no reason why a meritorious complaint
should be dismissed merely because of the bad character
of one who makes the charge. The ill character of a complainant, or of witnesses, provides no excuse for leaving
the public interest unprotected. A witness can be impeached in a proper manner; but the opinion here seems
to suggest that administrative agencies should hereafter
spend a large part of their time in trying complainants
instead of those charged with violating the law. Now, four
years after this proceeding began, it is broadly hinted that
the Board should permit the employer to try the informer
and it is clearly implied that if the complaining union is
proved evil, the employees should not be free of companydomination no matter how extreme it may be. If the
practice here suggested is not soon repudiated, a new
method will have been provided in which to paralyze
administrative agencies by discursive delay.
As has been noted, the Board has carefully eliminated
from its order all provisions which would specifically benefit the Union, and I see no reason for ordering it to take
new evidence of the character of a union to which it has
granted nothing at all. Despite this there is a premise,
vaguely stated but nonetheless permeating the opinion of
the Court, that evidence of the bad character of the Union
would require the Board to take some other action; that
somehow, as a practical matter, the Board, despite its
careful effort to avoid such a result, has aided the Union
which brought the charges. But if the desire be to punish
the Union, I cannot agree that this should be done by
compelling innocent employees to remain in a dominated
Association. If the Board's order requiring the disestablishment of the Association is found to be supported by
evidence, the employees may form a genuine independent
union, they may join some other organization, or they

LABOR BOARD v. I. & M. ELECTRIC CO.

33

BLCK, J., dissenting.

may choose to remain unorganized. A requirement that,
for their own good, they must remain in a company-dominated union to avoid any possibility of their aiding the
wrongdoers denies them the freedom of choice which the
Act preserves. Whatever character the Union may be
found to have, the Board's protection to respondent's
employees should not be disturbed because of it.
The motion for permission to offer new evidence attacking the credibility of witnesses raises a different question-one going to the quality of evidence on which a
conclusion is to be reached. The Board, after full consideration, denied the motion because it found that the
proffered evidence even if true had no relation to the issue
of Company coercion of its employees. Whether a case
shall be reopened after the evidence is closed, is, in courts,
ordinarily a matter of discretion. I think the Board's
action in this proceeding can not be said to be an unfair
exercise of discretion and that in any event it was correct
in holding the evidence irrelevant to the limited issues it
decided.
It must be remembered that the fundamental issue
which the Board decided here is whether the Association
is company-dominated. We are told that testimony concerning the misdeeds of the electrical workers are material
to this conclusion because the Board relied on witnesses
Marks, Freeman, and Guy; because the Board "must have
relied" on other union witnesses; because the Board's
decision may drive the employees into the offending
Union; because an Association official was asked hypothetical questions about bombing; and because company
witnesses might have been more credible if the full facts
of violence had been known.
To support its view that the Board might have disbelieved certain of its witnesses had the full facts been
known, the Court, has gone not only to the testimony

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

which has been printed by the Board and the Company
and offered by the Board as the basis of its case, but has
searched evidence to which the Board has made no reference in its findings and which it has not offered as of any
credibility at all. Evidently the Board is to be required
to re-examine that evidence in which it has already, by
rejection of it, expressed disbelief. I think no possible
good can come from reconsidering evidence once rejected
for the purpose of re-rejecting it.
The Board called sixteen Union witnesses. The three
most under suspicion for dynamiting were Guy, Marks,
and Freeman. Guy's testimony, as submitted by the
Board in support of its finding, is that two company
supervisors kept a Union meeting under surveillance, a
fact conceded by the supervisors. Marks testified that
the Company did not interfere with union organization,
and Freeman testified that Holmes, president of the Association, was respected by his fellow employees. A more
innocuous or colorless collection of evidence can scarcely
be imagined. The testimony of six other Union witnesses, as reflected by the printed record, is equally
trifling, while that of the other seven, which fills about
four per cent of the printed record, was not relied on by
the Board in its findings.
The ultimate Board holding before the Circuit Court of
Appeals for review is that the Association was companydominated. This holding rests almost exclusively on the
testimony of Company witnesses or witnesses affiliated
with the Association. There is not even a hint that these
witnesses were intimidated or interfered with in any way,
or that they told anything but the truth. If it be assumed
that Guy, Freeman, and Marks are wholly unworthy of
belief, this basic testimony given by Company witnesses
would still be unaffected. The suggestion made by the
Court, not raised by the Company either in its petition
for rehearing to the Board or in its motion for remand in

LABOR BOARD v. I. & M. ELECTRIC CO.
9

35

BiAcK, J., dissenting.

the Circuit Court of Appeals, that examination into the
dynamiting will reflect on the attitude of the employees
toward the Union during the earlier organizational period,
therefore misses the heart of the case. If the Company's
supervisory representatives did organize and dominate
the Association, the Association is company-dominated
and the Board's order should be upheld, I. A. of M. v.
Labor Board, 311 U. S. 72, 79, 80; if they did not, the
Board's order should not be enforced. The character of
organizers of a separate and distinct union contributes
nothing to the issue of Company conduct.
The last suggestion as to the materiality of further investigation into the dynamiting is that for some reason
the trial examiner asked Holmes questions concerning his
view on violence in labor disputes. Holmes expressed a
proper respect for law and order, and it is incredible
that a new hearing would either cause him to alter his
view in this regard or change the Board's respect for his
conclusion.
It will not seem odd that so much of the evidence originally introduced by the Board was eventually deemed
irrelevant to the final decision when it is realized that the
original charge against the respondent was much broader
than the final holding. This evidence, directed to the support of these peripheral charges, lost all consequence for
this case when the Board declined to believe the charges
themselves. For example, the original complaint alleged
that one Elkins was wrongfully discharged. Since both
the trial examiner and the Board found the charge unsupported, Elkins' testimony in this respect and all that supports it drops completely from the case. The opinion of
the Court appears to require re-assessment of such surplus
testimony offered in behalf of charges concluded to be unfounded.
Of course no Court should shelter dynamiters from exposure and inquiry. But compelling the Board to digress

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

from the adjudication of a labor dispute in which such
dynamiting has no part into a pursuit of the guilty, punishes the innocent employees of respondent rather than
the evildoers themselves. The Labor Board is no fair
substitute for a grand jury or a criminal court.
If the Board had denied respondents an opportunity to
offer newly discovered evidence which tended to show that
witnesses to material facts relied on by the Board had
since the hearing been convicted of serious crimes affecting their credibility, I would not object to sending the
matter back to the Board. But analysis of the record
demonstrates that no such thing occurred. I think we
should send the case back to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the normal review procedure.
O'DONNELL v. GREAT LAKES DREDGE &
DOCK CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 320. Argued January 6, 1943.-Decided February 1, 1943.
1. A deckhand in the service of a vessel plying navigable waters
in interstate commerce, who was ordered by the master to go
ashore and assist in repairing, at its connection with a land
pipe, a conduit through which the vessel was unloading cargo,
and who while thus engaged was injured by the negligence of a
fellow servant, has a right of recovery under the Jones Act, 46
U. S. C. § 688, which gives a right of action to a seaman injured
"in the course of his employment." P. 38.
2. The Jones Act as so applied is constitutional, even though the
injury was inflicted while the seaman was on shore. P. 43.
3. The constitutional authority of Congress to provide such a remedy
for seamen derives from its authority to regulate commerce, and
its power to make laws which shall be necessary and proper to
carry into execution powers vested by the Constitution in the
government or any department of it, including the judicial power

