36

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

from the adjudication of a labor dispute in which such
dynamiting has no part into a pursuit of the guilty, punishes the innocent employees of respondent rather than
the evildoers themselves. The Labor Board is no fair
substitute for a grand jury or a criminal court.
If the Board had denied respondents an opportunity to
offer newly discovered evidence which tended to show that
witnesses to material facts relied on by the Board had
since the hearing been convicted of serious crimes affecting their credibility, I would not object to sending the
matter back to the Board. But analysis of the record
demonstrates that no such thing occurred. I think we
should send the case back to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the normal review procedure.
O'DONNELL v. GREAT LAKES DREDGE &
DOCK CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 320. Argued January 6, 1943.-Decided February 1, 1943.
1. A deckhand in the service of a vessel plying navigable waters
in interstate commerce, who was ordered by the master to go
ashore and assist in repairing, at its connection with a land
pipe, a conduit through which the vessel was unloading cargo,
and who while thus engaged was injured by the negligence of a
fellow servant, has a right of recovery under the Jones Act, 46
U. S. C. § 688, which gives a right of action to a seaman injured
"in the course of his employment." P. 38.
2. The Jones Act as so applied is constitutional, even though the
injury was inflicted while the seaman was on shore. P. 43.
3. The constitutional authority of Congress to provide such a remedy
for seamen derives from its authority to regulate commerce, and
its power to make laws which shall be necessary and proper to
carry into execution powers vested by the Constitution in the
government or any department of it, including the judicial power

O'DONNELL v. GREAT LAKES CO.
36

37

Opinion of the Court.

which extends "to all Cases of admiralty and maritime Jurisdiction." P. 39.
4. There is nothing in the constitutional grant of admiralty jurisdiction to preclude Congress from modifying or supplementing the
rules of the maritime law as experience or changing conditions
may require, at least with respect to those matters which traditionally have been within the cognizance of admiralty courts
either because they are events occurring on navigable waters, or
because "they are the subject matter of maritime contracts or
relate to maritime services. P. 40.
5. The right of recovery in the Jones Act is given to the seaman as
such, and, as in the case of maintenance and cure, the admiralty
jurisdiction over the suit depends not on the place where the injury
is inflicted but on the nature of the service and its relationship to
the operation of the vessel plying in navigable waters. P. 42.
6. Since the subject matter-the seaman's right to compensation for
injuries received in the course of his employment-is one traditionally cognizable in admiralty, the Jones Act, by enlarging the
remedy, did not go beyond modification of substantive rules of the
maritime law well within the scope of the admiralty jurisdiction,
whether the vessel, plying navigable waters, be engaged in interstate commerce or not. P. 43.
7. The fact that Congress has provided that suits under the Jones
Act may be tried by jury, on the law rather than on the admiralty
side of the federal courts, does not require a conclusion different
from that here reached. P. 43.
127 F. 2d 901, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 611, to review a judgment denying
recovery in an action under the Jones Act.
Mr. Walter F. Dodd for petitioner.
Mr. Ezra L. D'Isafor respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question for decision is whether a seaman injured
on shore while in the service of his vessel is entitled to
recover for his injuries in a suit brought against his em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

ployer under the Jones Act. § 33, Merchant Marine Act
of 1920, 41 Stat. 1007, 46 U. S. C. § 688.
Petitioner was a deckhand on respondent's vessel
"Michigan," engaged in transporting sand from Indiana
to Illinois over the navigable waters of Lake Michigan.
As her cargo was being discharged through a conduit
passing from the hatch and connected at its outer end
to a land pipe by means of a gasket, petitioner was ordered by the master to go ashore to assist in repair of the
gasket connection. While he was so engaged the alleged
negligence of a fellow employee caused a heavy counterweight, used to support the gasket, to fall on petitioner
and cause the injuries of which he complains. The district
court dismissed the cause of action under the Jones Act
and granted an award for wages. The Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit modified the judgment, 127 F.
2d 901, by allowing an additional award for maintenance
and cure, but held that no recovery could be had under
the Jones Act for injury to a seaman not occurring on
navigable waters. We granted certiorari, 317 U. S. 611, the
question being one of importance in the application of the
Jones Act.
The Jones Act, so far as presently relevant, provides:
"Any seaman who shall suffer personal injury in the
course of his employment may, at his election, maintain
an action for damages at law, with the right of trial by
jury, and in such action all statutes of the United States
modifying or extending the common-law right or remedy
in cases of personal injury to railway employees shall
apply . . ."
The Act thus made applicable to seamen injured in the
course of their employment the provisions of the Federal
Employers Liability Act, 45 U. S. C. §§ 51-60, which gives
to railroad employees a right of recovery for injuries resulting from the negligence of their employer, its agents

O'DONNELL v. GREAT LAKES CO.
36

Opinion of the Court.

or employees. PanamaR. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375;
The Arizona v. Anelich, 298 U. S. 110. The term "seamen" has been interpreted to embrace those employed on a
vessel in rendering the services customarily performed by
seamen, including stevedores while temporarily engaged
in stowing cargo on the vessel. InternationalStevedoring
Co. v. Haverty, 272 U. S. 50; Buzynski v. Luckenbach
S. S. Co., 277 U. S. 226. There is nothing in the legislative
history of the Jones Act to indicate that its words "in the
course of his employment" do not mean what they say or
that they were intended to be restricted to injuries occurring on navigable waters. On the contrary it seems
plain that in taking over the principles of recovery already
established for railroad employees and extending them
in the new admiralty setting (see The Arizona v. Anelich,
supra) to any seaman injured "in the course of his employment," Congress, in the absence of any indication of a
different purpose, must be taken to have intended to make
them applicable so far as the words and the Constitution
permit, and to have given to them the full support of all
the constitutional power it possessed. Hence the Act
allows the recovery sought unless the Constitution
forbids it.
The constitutional authority of Congress to provide such
a remedy for seamen derives from its authority to regulate
commerce, Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S.
1, and its power to make laws which shall be necessary
and proper to carry into execution powers vested by the
Constitution in the government or any department of it,
Article I, § 8, cl. 18, including the judicial power which,
by Article III, § 2, extends "to all Cases of admiralty and
maritime Jurisdiction." By § 9 of the Judiciary Act of
1789, 1 Stat. 76, 28 U. S. C. § 371 (Third), Congress conferred on the district courts "exclusive original cognizance
of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
• . . saving to suitors, in all cases, the right of a common
513236-43-vol. 318-7

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

law remedy where the common law is competent to give
it . . ." By the grant of admiralty and maritime juris-

diction in the Judiciary Article, and § 9 of the Judiciary
Act, the national government took over the traditional
body of rules, precepts and practices known to lawyers and
legislators as the maritime law, so far as the courts invested with admiralty jurisdiction should accept and apply them. Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441, 459; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 576; In re Garnett, 141 U. S. 1, 14;
Detroit Trust Co. v. The Barlum, 293 U. S. 21, 43, and
cases cited.
It is true that the jurisdiction in admiralty in cases of
tort or collision is in general limited to events occurring
on navigable waters, Waring v. Clarke, supra; cf. The
Blackheath, 195 U. S. 361, and that the maritime law gave
to seamen no right to recover compensatory damages for
injuries suffered from negligence. The Osceola, 189 U. S.
158, 172, 175; Pacific S. S. Co. v. Peterson, 278 U. S. 130,
134. It allowed such recovery if the injury resulted from
unseaworthiness of the vessel or her tackle, The Osceola,
supra, 173, 175, and permitted recovery of maintenance
and cure, ordinarily measured by wages and the cost of
reasonable medical care, if the seaman was injured or disabled in the course of his employment. The Osceola,
supra, 172-75; The Iroquois, 194 U. S. 240; Calmar S. S.
Corp. v. Taylor, 303 U. S. 525, 527-28.
But it cannot be supposed that the framers of the Constitution contemplated that the maritime law should forever remain unaltered by legislation, The Lottawanna,
srupra,577, or that Congress could never change the status
under the maritime law of seamen, who are peculiarly the
wards of admiralty, or was powerless to enlarge or modify
any remedy afforded to them within the scope of the admiralty jurisdiction. There is nothing in that grant of
jurisdiction-which sanctioned our adoption of the system
of maritime law-to preclude Congress from modifying

O'DONNELL v. GREAT LAKES CO.
36

Opinion of the Court.

or supplementing the rules of that law as experience or
changing conditions may require. This is so at least with
respect to those matters which traditionally have been
within the cognizance of admiralty courts either because
they are events occurring on navigable waters, see Waring
v. Clarke, supra, or because they are the subject matter
of maritime contracts or relate to maritime services. Insurance Company v. Dunham, 11 Wall. 1, 25.
From the beginning this Court has sustained legislative
changes of the maritime law within those limits. See
Waring v. Clarke, supra; The Lottawanna,supra; Butler
v. Boston & Savannah S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 527, 555. Congress has both limited the liability of vessels for their torts
even though not engaged in interstate commerce, In re
Garnett, supra; Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co. v.
Southern Pacific Co., 273 U. S. 207, 214, and extended the
limitation to claims for damages by vessel to a land structure. Compare The Plymouth; 3 Wall. 20, and Cleveland
Terminal & V. R. Co. v. Cleveland S. S. Co., 208 U. S. 316,
with Richardson v. Harmon,222 U. S. 96, 101,106. It has
altered'and extended the maritime law of liens on vessels
plying navigable waters. Detroit Trust Co. v. The Barlum,
supra,and cases cited. And the Jones Act itself has given
seamen a right of recovery for injury or death, not previously recognized by the maritime law, which has been
uniformly sustained by this Court in cases where the
injury occurred on navigable waters. Panama R. Co. v.
Johnson, supra, 385-87; The Arizona v. Anelich, supra;
Lindgren v. United States, 281 U. S. 38.
As we have said, the maritime law, as recognized in the
federal courts, has not in general allowed recovery for
personal injuries occurring on land. But there is an important exception to this generalization in the case of
maintenance and cure. From its dawn, the maritime law
has recognized the seaman's right to maintenance and
cure for injuries suffered in the course of his service to his

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

vessel, whether occurring on sea or on land. It is so stated
in Article VI of the Laws of Oleron, twelfth century, 30
Fed. Cas. 1174, and in Article XVIII of the Laws of Wisbuy, thirteenth century, id. p. 1191. And see Article
XXXIX of the Laws of the Hanse Towns, id. p. 1200;
Articles XI and XII of Title Fourth, Marine Ordinances
of Louis XIV, id. p. 1209. Such is the accepted rule in
this Court, see The Osceola, supra, 169, 175; CalmarS. S.
Corp. v. Taylor, supra, 527-28, and it is confirmed by
Article 2 of the Shipowners' Liability Convention of 1936,
54 Stat. 1695, proclaimed by the President to be effective
as to the United States and its citizens as of October 29,
1939. Article 12 of the Convention provides that it shall
not affect any national law ensuring "more favourable
conditions than those provided by this Convention."
54 Stat. 1700.
Some of the grounds for recovery of maintenance and
cure would, in modern terminology, be classified as torts.
But the seaman's right was firmly established in the maritime law long before recognition of the distinction between tort and contract. In its origin, maintenance and
cure must be taken as an incident to the status of the seaman in the employment of his ship. See Cortes v. Baltimore Insular Line, 287 U. S. 367, 372. That status has
from the beginning been peculiarly within the province
of the maritime law, see Calmar S. S. Corp. v. Taylor,
supra, and upon principles consistently followed by this
Court it is subject to the power of Congress to modify the
conditions and extent of the remedy afforded by the maritime law to seamen injured while engaged in a maritime
service.
The right of recovery in the Jones Act is given to the
seaman as such, and, as in the case of maintenance and
cure, the admiralty jurisdiction over the suit depends not
on the place where the injury is inflicted but on the nature
of the service and its relationship to the operation of the

O'DONNELL v. GREAT LAKES CO.
36

Opinion of the Court.

vessel plying in navigable waters. See Waring v. Clarke,
supra; Insurance Co. v. Dunham, supra.
It follows that the Jones Act, in extending a right of
recovery to the seaman injured while in the service of his
vessel by negligence, has done no more than supplement
the remedy of maintenance and cure for injuries suffered
by the seaman, whether on land or sea, by giving to him
the indemnity which the maritime law afforded to a seaman injured in consequence of the unseaworthiness of the
vessel or its tackle. Pacific S. S. Co. v. Peterson, supra.
Since the subject matter, the seaman's right to compensation for injuries received in the course of his employment, is one traditionally cognizable in admiralty, the
Jones Act, by enlarging the remedy, did not go beyond
modification of substantive rules of the maritime law well
within the scope of the admiralty jurisdiction whether the
vessel, plying navigable waters, be engaged in interstate
commerce or not. Cf. Jackson v. The Magnolia, 20 How.
296; The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624, 640, et seq; In re Garnett,
supra.
The fact that Congress has provided that suits under
the Jones Act may be tried by jury, on the law rather than
on the admiralty side of the federal courts, does not militate against the conclusion we have reached. This is but
a part of the general power of Congress to prescribe the
forum in which federally-created causes of action are to
be tried, Claflin v. Houseman, 93 U. S. 130, 136-42,-a
concomitant of the power many times sustained by this
Court to direct that causes of action arising under the
Jones Act may be tried in the state courts. E. g., Engel
v. Davenport, 271 U. S. 33, 37-38; Panama R. Co. v.
Vasquez, 271 U. S. 557; cf. Garrett v. Moore-McCormack
Co., 317 U. S. 239.
We have no occasion to consider or decide here the question whether a longshoreman, temporarily employed in
storing cargo on a vessel, if entitled to recover under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Counsel for Parties.

318 U. S.

Jones Act for injuries sustained while working on the

vessel (compare International Stevedoring Co. v. Haverty, supra,with Nogueirav. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co., 281
U. S. 128, 137), could recover for an injury received on
shore in the circumstances of this case. Compare State
IndustrialCommission v. Nordenholt Corp., 259 U. S. 263,
with South Chicago Co. v. Bassett, 309 U. S. 251, 256.
Reversed.
TILESTON v. ULLMAN, STATE'S ATTORNEY,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ERRORS OF
CONNECTICUT.

No. 420. Argued January 13, 14, 1943.-Decided February 1, 1943.
A physician is without standing to challenge, as a deprivation of life
without due process in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, a
state statute prohibiting the use of drugs or instruments to prevent
conception, and the giving of assistance or counsel in their use,
where the lives alleged to be endangered are those of patients who
are not parties to the suit. P. 46.
Appeal dismissed.
APPEAL from a judgment, 129 Conn. 84, 26 A. 2d 582,
holding a state statute applicable to appellant and sustaining its constitutionality.

Messrs. Morris L. Ernst and Edwin Borchard for
appellant.
Messrs. Abraham S. Ullman and William L. Beers, with
whom Messrs. Arthur T. Gorman and Philip R. Pastore
were on the brief, for appellees.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed by Mr. Charles E.
Scribneron behalf of Dr. Marye Y. Dabney et al., and by
Messrs. Lawrence L. Lewis and J. Warren Upson on behalf
of Dr. A. Nowell Creadick et al.,-in support of the
appellant.

