OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

ruptcy Act,2" an ordinary bankruptcy may be initiated
only at the corporation's principal place of business,
which is Wheeling, in. the Northern District of West
Virginia.
Congress did not intend a Chapter X case to be turned
into a liquidation proceeding at the outset, but intended
the litigation to become a straight bankruptcy only after
the failure to consummate a plan, and meant to limit the
parties to their remedy in ordinary bankruptcy in all
other cases. It would, therefore, be a perversion of the
Congressional intent to treat the present as a liquidation
proceeding, since the rights of persons having liens or
security pledged for their claims differ widely in the two
sorts of bankruptcy.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

and MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

took

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MYERS, TRUSTEE, v. MATLEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 540. Argued March 5, 1943.-Decided April 5, 1943.
1. Under § 70 (a) of the Bankruptcy Act, originally and as amended
in 1938, a homestead is exempt in bankruptcy if, under the state

law, it was exempt from levy and sale when the petition in bankruptcy was filed. P. 625.
2. White v. Stump, 266 U. S. 310, distinguished. P. 625.
3. Historically, and under the theory of the present Act, bankruptcy has
the force and effect of the levy of an execution for the benefit of
creditors to insure an equitable distribution amongst them of the
bankrupt's assets. The trustee is vested not only with the title
22 11 U. S. C. § 11.

MYERS v. MATLEY.
622

Opinion of the Court.

of the bankrupt but clothed with the right of an execution creditor
with a levy on the property which passes into the trustee's custody.
P. 627.
4. The law of Nevada entitles a debtor to his homestead exemption, if
the selection of the property and filing for record of the declaration
of intention occur at any time before actual judicial sale. P. 627.
130 F. 2d 775, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 621, to review the affirmance of a
judgment of the District Court, 47 F. Supp. 558, sustaining a claim of homestead exemption and overruling the
referee's denial of the claim.
Mr. T. L. Withers, with whom Mr. Harlan L. Heward
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William M. Kearney submitted for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner's assertion that the court below misapplied § 70 (a) of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended,' in
contravention of a decision of this court,2 and contrary to
the law of the State of Nevada, as well as a division of
opinion of the judges in the court below, moved us to
grant certiorari.
October 24, 1940, a petition in bankruptcy was filed
against Marshall R. Matley, the respondent's husband.
He appeared and consented to an adjudication, which
was entered the same day. November 20, 1940, the respondent filed with the Recorder of Washoe County, Nevada, her declaration claiming as a homestead a tract
of land in Reno, Nevada, listed in her husband's bankruptcy schedules. November 27, 1940, she filed in the
Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541, § 70, 30 Stat. 565; Act of June 22, 1938,
c. 575, § 1, 52 Stat. 879; 11 U. S. C. § 110.
2 White v. Stump, 266 U. S. 310.

624

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

bankruptcy court a petition claiming the land as exempt.
The referee denied her claim, the District Court reversed
the referee, and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed its
decision.' The real estate in question, acquired by the
respondent and her husband while married, was community property, on which a residence was built and occupied by the couple as a home. While they were absent
from it at times, they always considered it their home and
intended to return to it. Although they were separated
in 1940, the respondent, was residing on the land when
the petition in bankruptcy was filed. A divorce action
was pending but was not concluded until May 1941, when
the respondent was granted a divorce and the Reno residence was awarded her as her sole property.
The petitioner asserts that the property cannot be set
apart to the respondent as exempt, since her homestead
declaration was not filed, as required by state law, until
after entry of the petition in bankruptcy.
Section 70 (a) originally provided that the trustee shall
be vested, by operation of law, with the title of the bankrupt as of the date he was adjudged a bankrupt, "except in so far as it is to property which is exempt, . . ."
The phraseology was altered by the amendment of 1938
to except "property which is held to be exempt, . . ."
Section 6 of the Bankruptcy Act 4 declares that the provisions of the Act shall not affect the allowance to bankrupts of the exemptions "which are prescribed by the
State laws in force at the time of the filing of the petition"
in the state where the bankrupt has had his domicile.
The trustee, as to all property in possession and under the
control of the bankrupt at the date of bankruptcy, is
deemed vested, as of that date, with all the rights and
remedies of a creditor then holding a lien on the prop130 F. 2d 775.
S30 Stat. 548, 11 U. S. C. § 24.

MYERS v. MATLEY.
622

Opinion of the Court.

erty by legal or equitable proceedings, whether or not
such a creditor actually exists.' An adjudication in bankruptcy is not the equivalent of a judicial sale, nor is the
trustee given the rights of a purchaser at such a sale.
The question thus arises whether the respondent's right
of homestead under Nevada law, secured by her filed declaration, prevails against the right and title of the trustee.
The court below so held and we think its judgment was
right.
1. We conclude that the new phraseology in the amendment of § 70 (a) does not alter the principles applicable
to the exemption of homestead property in bankruptcy.
On the face of the legislation, the intent of Congress was
merely to clarify the meaning of the section. We are referred to no legislative history indicating that the alteration was intended to work a change of substance. Under
the amendment, as under the original provision, a homestead is exempt if, under the state law, it would be held to
be exempt.
2. White v. Stump, supra, involved a homestead exemption claimed pursuant to the law of Idaho, under
which the declaration of homestead was required to be
executed and acknowledged, like a conveyance of real
property, and filed for record. The exemption arose when
the declaration was filed and not before. Up to that time,
the land remained subject to execution and attachment
like any other land; and where a levy was effected while
the land was in that condition, the subsequent making and
filing of a declaration neither avoided the levy nor prevented a sale under it.' It appeared that no declaration
was made and filed of record until a month after Stump's
petition and adjudication in bankruptcy. The declaration was then made and filed by his wife for his and her
5 §70 (e); 52 Sta. 881; !1 U. S1 C. § 110c.
6 White Y. Stump, supra, p. 311.

626

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

joint benefit. This court held that the Bankruptcy Act
fixed the point of time which is to separate the old situation from the new in the bankrupt's affairs as the date
when the petition is filed; that when the Act speaks of
property which is exempt, and rights to exemption, it
refers to that point of time-namely, the point as of which
the general estate passes out of the bankrupt's control and
with respect to which the status and rights of the bankrupt, the creditors, and the trustee in other particulars are
fixed. The court said: "The exception, as its words and
the context show, is not of property which would or might
be exempt if some condition not performed were performed, but of property to which there is under the state
law a present right of exemption-one which withdraws
the property from levy and sale under judicial process." "
Accordingly it was held that, as the claim of exemption
was not perfected until after the petition was filed, it was
ineffective as against the trustee, as it would have been
against a creditor then having a levy on the property.
If the law of Nevada respecting homestead exemptions
were like that of Idaho, or operated in the same way,
White v. Stump would be in point.
3. The Nevada Constitution, Art. 4, § 30, reads in part:
"A homestead, as provided by law, shall be exempt from
forced sale under any process of law, and shall not be
alienated without the joint consent of husband and wife,
when that relation exists; . . . and laws shall be enacted
providing for the recording of such homestead within the
county in which the same shall be situated."
Section 3315 of the Compiled Laws of Nevada defines
property which may be claimed as exempt as a homestead
and permits selection by either the husband, the wife, or
both, by a declaration of intention in writing to claim the
same. After providing what the declaration shall con7White v. Stump, supra, p. 313.

MYERS v. MATLEY.
622

Opinion of the Court.

tain and that it shall be signed, acknowledged, and recorded as conveyances of real estate are required to be
acknowledged and recorded, the statute continues:
".. . from and after the filing for record of said declara-

tion, the husband and wife shall be deemed to hold said
homestead as joint tenants."
Section 8844 provides that "the following property is
exempt from execution, . . . the homestead as provided

for by law."
Historically, and under the theory of the present Act,
bankruptcy has the force and effect of the levy of an execution for the benefit of creditors to insure an equitable
distribution amongst them of the bankrupt's assets.' The
trustee is vested not only with the title of the bankrupt
but clothed with the right of an execution creditor with a
levy on the property which passes into the trustee's
custody.
Our question then is whether, under the constitution
and statutes of Nevada, a declaration of homestead would
be effective as against a creditor to prevent a judicial sale
of the property if made and recorded after levy but before
sale thereunder. If it would, it must be equally effective
as against the trustee, whose rights rise no higher than
those of the supposed creditor and attach at the date of
the inception of bankruptcy.
Examination of the Nevada cases relied on by the court
below satisfies us that the settled law of the State entitles
the debtor to his homestead exemption if the selection
and recording occurs at any time before actual sale under
execution.' And indeed the petitioner so concedes in his
brief, stating that he "admits that under the laws of Nevada as interpreted by the Nevada Supreme Court, a
8

Remington, Bankruptcy, 4th Ed., pp. 4-6; In re Youngstrom, 153
F. 98, 103-4, and cases cited.
9Hawthorne v. Smith, 3 Nev. 182; McGill v. Lewis, 116 P. 2d 581.

628

OCTOBER TERM, 1042.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

declaration of homestead filed at any time prior to actual
execution sale is sufficient to establish the homestead
right."
In conformity to the principle announced in White v.
Stump, that the bankrupt's right to a homestead exemption becomes fixed at the date of the filing of the petition
in bankruptcy and cannot thereafter be enlarged or
altered by anything the bankrupt may do, it remains true
that, under the law of Nevada, the right to make and
record the necessary declaration of homestead existed in
the bankrupt at the date of filing the petition, as it would
have existed in case a levy had been made upon the property. The assertion of that right before actual sale in
accordance with state law did not change the relative
status of the claimant and the trustee subsequent to the
filing of the petition. The federal courts have generally
so held and have distinguished White v. Stump where the
state law was similar, in terms or in effect, to that of
Nevada."
The judgment is
Affirmed.

re Trammell, 5 F. 2d 326; Clark v. Nirenbaum, 8 F. 2d 451;
McCrae v. Felder, 12 F. 2d 554. Contra: Georgouses v. Gillen, 24
F. 2d 292.
10In

