442

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Counsel for Parties.

318 U. S.

opinion below, 129 F. 2d 897, and in Adams v. City Bank &
Trust Co., 115 F. 2d 453; Girand v. Kimbell Milling Co.,
116 F. 2d 999, In re Talbot Canning Corp., 35 F. Supp. 680;
Associated Seed Growers v. Geib, 125 F. 2d 683, and In re
E. H. Webb Grocery Co., 32 F. Supp. 3.

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 529.

Argued February 11, 12, 1943.--Decided March 15, 1943.

1. The decision of the District Court in this case, setting aside an
indictment for violation of the Sherman Act, rests not alone upon
a construction of the statute but also upon the independent ground
of the insufficiency of the indictment as a pleading, and it is
therefore not appealable directly to this Court under the Criminal
Appeals Act. P. 444.
2. Pursuant to the Act of May 9, 1942, the cause is remanded to
the Circuit Court of Appeals, which thereupon will have authority
to pass upon the construction of both the indictment and the statute.
P. 445.
Remanded to the C. C. A.
APPEAL from a judgment, 46 F. Supp. 848, dismissing
an indictment for violation of the Sherman Act.

Mr. Charles H. Weston, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Mr. Richard S. Salant were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Kenneth W. Robinson, with whom Messrs. Edgar
B. Kixmiller, Robert G. Bosworth, C. C. Dawson, Jr.,
Charles J. Faulkner, Jr., John R. Coen, W. W. Grant,
Morrison Shafroth, Henry W. Toll, and Harry S. Silverstein were on the brief, for appellees.

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
442

Opinion of the Court.

PER CURIAM.

This is a direct appeal under the Criminal Appeals Act,
18 U. S. C. ยง 682, as amended by the Act of May 9, 1942,
56 Stat. 271, from a judgment of the district court setting
aside an indictment under the Sherman Act. By the
statute our jurisdiction is restricted to review of a decision
or judgment based upon the invalidity or construction
of the statute on which the indictment is founded. Included among the defendants are the commission firms
which receive and sell fat lambs on the Denver Livestock
Exchange, and three packing companies which purchase
fat lambs on the Denver market for shipment interstate
to their manufacturing plants.
The indictment charges that the defendants agreed
among themselves to purchase lambs only on the Exchange, and to abandon the previously prevailing practice
of making direct purchases from producers in the country,
for interstate shipment, "thereby restraining the channels
of distribution within the Denver marketing area through
which said fat lambs for eastbound shipment move,
and . . . restraining the interstate trade and commerce
described in this indictment, in violation of ยง 1 of the
Sherman Act." It also alleges that the agreement or
conspiracy among the defendants is "in restraint of the
hereinbefore described trade and commerce in fat lambs
among the several States of the United States and in
violation of ยง 1" of the Sherman Act.
The district court dismissed the indictment on the
ground that the alleged agreement and practices under it
are not in any way shown to have affected the price of
lambs or the amount of lambs raised or produced, or to
have lessened their flow in interstate commerce. While
its decision was rested in part upon the construction of
the Sherman Act, the court also relied on the insufficiency

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

of the pleading, in that it failed to allege any injury to or
effect upon interstate commerce resulting from the alleged
agreement or conspiracy. It said: "the indictment is
defective in that it does not go far enough in its charges to
bring the agreement within any of the recognized canons
of construction of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, because,
as stated before, there is no allegation that the defendants
intended to or in any way harmed anyone or affected
the price of fat lambs, the amount of them that could be
sold, or the places where they could be sold"; and again,
"the government has gone beyond the extent and meaning of that law as interpreted by the Supreme Court, for,
as stated, there is no allegation that anyone has been
injured or the flow of interstate commerce in any way
affected." 46 F. Supp. 848, 852.
From this we must take it that the court found that the
general allegations with respect to the effect of the alleged
agreement on commerce were not sufficiently specific. It
thus placed its decision, in part at least, on the inadequacy
of the allegations of the indictment, which we have quoted,
to charge that the conspiracy or agreement affected commerce within the meaning of the Sherman Act. These
we think were rulings upon the sufficiency of the indictment as a matter of pleading, the correctness of which
cannot under the statute be reviewed here on direct appeal
from the district court. And such an appeal to this Court
does not lie when the district court has considered the
construction of the statute but has also rested its decision
upon the independent ground of a defect in the pleading.
United States v. Hastings, 296 U. S. 188; United States v.
Halsey, Stuart & Co., 296 U. S. 451; United States v.
Borden Co., 308 U. S. 188, 193; United States v. Wayne
Pump Co., 317 U. S. 200, and cases cited.
This practice was recognized and confirmed by the
adoption of the amendment of May 9, 1942 to the Crim-

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
442

Opinion of the Court.

inal Appeals Act. The amendment authorized the Government to appeal to the circuit court of appeals from a
decision of the district court sustaining a demurrer to the
indictment in any case "except where a direct appeal to
the Supreme Court of the United States is provided by
this Act," and provided that where an appeal is taken
to the Supreme Court "which, in the opinion of that Court,
should have been taken to a circuit court of appeals, . . .
the Supreme Court .. . shall remand the cause to the circuit court of appeals . . ., which shall then have jurisdiction to hear and determine the same as if the appeal had
been taken to that court in the first instance . . ." In
urging the passage of this legislation the Attorney General,
in his letter to the Speaker of the House of January 10,
1941, pointed out that "It not infrequently happens that a
demurrer to an indictment is sustained or a motion in
arrest of judgment is allowed on grounds other than the
invalidity or construction of the statute upon which the
prosecution is based. (United States v. Hastings, 296
U. S.188; UnitedStates v. Halsey, Stuart& Co., 296 U. S.
451.)' He accordingly recommended the proposed
amendment as the appropriate means of securing appellate review in cases like those cited-cases which had laid
down the principle that a direct appeal to this Court is
not authorized when the decision of the district court rests
in part on grounds independent of the invalidity or construction of the statute on which the indictment is
founded. H. R. Rep. No. 45, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2;
S. Rep. No. 868, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2.
As we are without jurisdiction to entertain the appeal,
we remand the cause, in compliance with the Act of May
9, 1942, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth
Circuit, which will have authority to pass upon the construction both of the indictment and the statute.
So ordered.

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
JACKSON, J., concurring.

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

318 U. S.

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,
JUSTICE MURPHY

and MR.

think that the ruling of the district court

was based on a "construction" of the Sherman Act and
that this Court therefore has jurisdiction to review the
judgment.
MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON,

concurring:

I agree with the dissenting Justices that the decision of
the District Court is "based" upon the construction of the
Sherman Act. The District Court has also drawn conclusions from the language of the indictment which can
no doubt be said to amount to a construction of the indictment. But I do not think that the court's construction
of the indictment constitutes an independent ground of
decision such as this Court has held precludes its review
on direct appeal.
However, one-half of the membership of the Court as
constituted at the time this case was submitted do not
agree with this view, which is certainly not free from
doubt and is based on inferences from an oral and informal
announcement of the District Court. In connection with
the difficult problems that come up as a result of a dual
appeal, we would be greatly aided if the District Courts
in dismissing an indictment would indicate in the order
the ground, and, if more than one, would separately state
and number them. I am confident that a request from
the Government to do so would generally be granted and
that to do so would be of assistance to the Government in
taking, and to us in passing on, appeals.
If the Court is to dispatch its business as an institution,
some accommodation of views is necessary and, where no
principle of importance is at stake, there are times when
an insistence upon a division is not in the interests of the
best administration of justice.

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
442

JACKSON, J.,

concurring.

Such a case I consider this to be. To persist in my dissent would result either in affirmance of the judgment by
an equally divided Court or in a reargument. There is
difference of opinion as to whether, if we have jurisdiction, we may proceed beyond the construction of the Act
and review opinions about the indictment which the lower
court expressed but did not rely upon as an independent
ground of decision. On that question I reserve opinion.
If, upon reargument in this Court, it should be decided
that our review is limited to the correctness of the District
Court's construction of the Act, and that it erred in this
respect, the views which the District Court has expressed
as to the sufficiency of the allegations of the indictment
would be likely to embarrass the trial court in passing on
offers of proof, admissibility of evidence, motions going
to the sufficiency of the evidence, and other questions.
It is not unlikely that the trial court would regard the
statements of the District Court about this indictment as
"the law of the case."
However the case may be disposed of, reargument seems
to be in order, and I believe that the practical advantages
favor rearguing it before the Circuit Court of Appeals,
where there is no doubt that all of the questions can be
decided.
Under these circumstances, to persist in my dissent
would seem a captious insistence upon my reading of a
District Court's informal opinion as to which there is
reasonable ground for difference. I should not desire to
appear committed to this case as a precedent. I concur
in the result only because it seems the most sensible way
out of our impasse in the immediate case.

