PALMER v. HOFFMAN.

109

Syllabus.

PALMER

TRUSTEES, v. HOFFMAN,
ADMINISTRATOR.

ET AL.,

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 300.

Argued January 7, 8, 1943.-Decided February 1, 1943.

1. A signed statement of a railroad engineer, since deceased, giving
his version of a grade crossing accident in which the locomotive he
was operating was involved, and made, two days after the accident,
when he was interviewed by an official of the company and a representative of a state commission, held not made "in the regular course"
of business within the meaning of the Act of June 20, 1936, and not
admissible as evidence thereunder. P. 111.
2. A ruling of the trial court that if the defendant called for and
inspected a signed statement which on cross-examination a witness
for the plaintiff stated he had given to the plaintiff's lawyer, the
plaintiff would then be entitled to put the statement in evidence,
held not a ground for reversal in this case, since the document was
not marked for identification and is not a part of the record, and this
Court is therefore unable to determine whether the contents would
have served to impeach the witness. P. 116.
3. Rule 8 (c) of the Rules of Civil Procedure does not make contributory
negligence an affirmative defense, but relates only to the manner
of pleading. P. 117.
4. The question of the burden of establishing contributory negligence
is a question of local law which federal courts in diversity of citizenship cases must apply. P. 117.
5. The ruling of a lower federal court upon a question of local law will
not here be set aside except on a plain showing of error. P. 118.
6. In a suit in a federal court in New York, in which two of the causes
of action were based on a Massachusetts statute and two were based
on the common law, the court charged the jury that the burden of
proving contributory negligence was on the defendants. The
defendants' exception to the charge did not differentiate between
the causes of action based on the statute and those based on the
common law. Again without differentiating between the statutory
and the common law causes of action, the defendants requested
a charge that the burden was on the plaintiff to establish freedom
from contributory negligence. In this situation, this Court, assuming
that the charge so far as,the common law counts are concerned was

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

erroneous, but being unable to say that the charge was incorrect so
far as the statutory causes of action are concerned, does not reverse
and remand the cause. P. 119.
7. Where a party might have obtained a correct charge to the jury
by specifically calling the attention of the trial court to the error and
where a part of the charge was correct, he may not through a general
exception obtain a new trial. P. 119.
129 F. 2d 976, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 611, to review the affirmance of a
judgment against the petitioners in an action for damages
on account of injury and death alleged to have been due
to negligence. The jurisdiction of the federal court was
invoked on the ground of diversity of citizenship.

Mr. Edward R. Brumley for petitioners.
Mr. William Paul Allen, with whom Mr. Benjamin Diamond was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case arose out of a grade crossing accident which
occurred in Massachusetts. Diversity of citizenship
brought it to the federal District Court in New York.
There were several causes of action. The first two were
on behalf of respondent individually, one being brought
under a Massachusetts statute (Mass. Gen. L. (1932) c.
160, §§ 138, 232), the other at common law. The third
and fourth were brought by respondent as administrator
of the estate of his wife and alleged the same common law
and statutory negligence as the first two counts. On the
question of negligence the trial court submitted three
issues to the jury-failure to ring a bell, to blow a whistle,
to have a light burning in the front of the train. The jury
returned a verdict in favor of respondent individually for
some $25,000 and in favor of respondent as administrator
for $9,000. The District Court entered judgment on the

PALMER v. HOFFMAN.
109

Opinion of the Court.

verdict. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, one
judge dissenting. 129 F. 2d 976. The case is here on a
petition for a writ of certiorari which presents three
points.
I. The accident occurred on the night of December 25,
1940. On December 27, 1940, the engineer of the train,
who' died before the trial, made a statement at a freight
office of petitioners where he was interviewed by an assistant superintendent of the road and by a representative
of the Massachusetts Public Utilities Commission. See
Mass. Gen. L. (1932) c. 159, § 29. This statement was
offered in evidence by petitioners under the Act of June
20, 1936, 49 Stat. 1561, 28 U. S. C. § 695.1 They offered
to prove (in the language of the Act) that the statement
was signed in the regular course of business, it being the
regular course of such business to make such a statement.
Respondent's objection to its introduction was sustained.
We agree with the majority view below that it was
properly excluded.
We may assume that if the statement was made "in
the regular course" of business, it would satisfy the other
provisions of the Act. But we do not think that it was
made "in the regular course" of business within the meaning of the Act. The business of the petitioners is the
railroad business. That business like other enterprises
1 "In any court of the United States and in any court established by
Act of Congress, any writing or record, whether in the form of an
entry in a book or otherwise, made as a memorandum or record of any
act, transaction, occurrence, or event, shall be admissible as evidence
of said act, transaction, occurrence, or event, if it shall appear that it
was made in the regular course of any business, and that it was the
regular course of such business to make such memorandum or record
at the time of such act, transaction, occurrence, or event or within a
reasonable time thereafter. All other circumstances of the making of
such writing or record, including lack of personal knowledge by the
entrant or maker, may be shown to affect its weight, but they shall not
affect its admissibility. The term 'business' shall include business,
profession, occupation, and calling of every kind."

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

entails the keeping of numerous books and records essential to its conduct or useful in its efficient operation.
Though such books and records were considered reliable
and trustworthy for major decisions in the industrial and
business world, their use in litigation was greatly circumscribed or hedged about by the hearsay rule-restrictions
which greatly increased the time and cost of making the
proof where those who made the records were numerous.2
5 Wigmore, Evidence (3d ed., 1940) § 1530. It was that
problem which started the movement towards adoption
of legislation embodying the principles of the present
Act. See Morgan et al., The Law of Evidence, Some Proposals for its Reform (1927) c. V. And the legislative
history of the Act indicates the same purpose.'
2

The problem was well stated by Judge Learned Hand in Massa-

chusetts Bonding & Ins. Co. v. Norwich Pharmacal Co., 18 F. 2d
934, 937: "The routine of modern affairs, mercantile, financial and
industrial, is conducted with so extreme a division of labor that the
transactions cannot be proved at first hand without the concurrence
of persons, each of whom can contribute no more than a slight part,
and that part not dependent on his memory of the event. Records,
and records alone, are their adequate repository, and are in practice
accepted as accurate upon the faith of the routine itself, and of the
self-consistency of their contents. Unless they can be used in court
without the task of calling those who at all stages had a part in the
transactions recorded, nobody need ever pay a debt, if only his
creditor does a large enough business."
3 Thus the report of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary incorporates the recommendation of the Attorney General who stated in
support of the legislation, "The old common-law rule requires that every
book entry be identified by the person making it. This is exceedingly
difficult, if not impossible, in the case of an institution employing a
large bookkeeping staff, particularly when the entries are made by
machine. In a recent criminal case the Government was prevented
from making out a prima-facie case by a ruling that entries in the
books of a bank, made in the regular course of business, were not
admissible in evidence unless the specific bookkeeper who made -the

PALMER v. HOFFMAN.
109

Opinion of the Court.

The engineer's statement which was held inadmissible
in this case falls into quite a different category.' It is
not a record made for the systematic conduct of the business as a business. An accident report may affect that ,
business in the sense that it affords information on which
the management may act. It is not, however, typical
of entries made systematically or as a matter of routine to
record events or occurrences, to reflect transactions with
others, or to provide internal controls. The conduct of a
business commonly entails the payment of tort claims incurred by the negligence of its employees. But the fact
that a company makes a business out of recording its employees' versions of their accidents does not put those
statements in the class of records made "in the regular
course" of the business within the meaning of the Act. If
it did, then any law office in the land could follow the same
course, since business as defined in the Act includes the professions. We would then have a real perversion of a rule
designed to facilitate admission of records which experience has shown to be quite trustworthy. Any business
by installing a regular system for recording and preserving its version of accidents for which it was potentially
liable could qualify those reports under the Act. The
result would be that the Act would cover any system of
recording events or occurrences provided it was "regular"
and though it had little or nothing to do with the management or operation of the business as such. Preparation
of cases for trial by virtue of being a "business" or incidental thereto would obtain the benefits of this liberalized
version of the early shop book rule. The probability of
entry could identify it. Since the bank employed 18 bookkeepers, and
the entries were made by bookkeeping machines, this was impossible."

S. Rep. No. 1965, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 1-2.
4It is clear that it does not come within the exceptions as to declarations by a deceased witness. See Shepard v. United States, 290 U. S.
96; Wigmore, supra, chs. xLIx-Iav.

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

trustworthiness of records because they were routine reflections of the day to day operations of a business would
be forgotten as the basis of the rule. See Conner v. Seattle, R. & S. Ry. Co., 56 Wash. 310, 312-313, 105 P. 634.
Regularity of preparation would become the test rather
than the character of the records and their earmarks of
reliability (Chesapeake & Delaware Canal Co. v. United
States, 250 U. S. 123, 128-129) acquired from their source
and origin and the nature of their compilation. We cannot
so completely empty the words of the Act of their historic
meaning. If the Act is to be extended to apply not only
to a "regular course" of a business but also to any "regular course" of conduct which may have some relationship
to business, Congress not this Court must extend it. Such
a major change which opens wide the door to avoidance
of cross-examination should not be left to implication.
Nor is it any answer to say that Congress has provided
in the Act that the various circumstances of the making
of the record should affect its weight, not its admissibility.
That provision comes into play only in case the other
requirements of the Act are met.
In short, it is manifest that in this case those reports
are not for the systematic conduct of the enterprise as
a railroad business. Unlike payrolls, accounts receivable,
accounts payable, bills of lading and the like, these reports
are calculated for use essentially in the court, not in the
business. Their primary utility is in litigating, not in
railroading.
It is, of course, not for us to take these reports out of
the Act if Congress has put them in. But there is nothing
in the background of the law on which this Act was built
or in its legislative history which suggests for a moment
that the business of preparing cases for trial should be
included. In this connection it should be noted that the
Act of May 6, 1910, 36 Stat. 350, 45 U. S. C. § 38, requires
officers of common carriers by rail to make under oath.

PALMER v. HOFFMAN.
109

Opinion of the Court.

monthly reports of railroad accidents to the Interstate
Commerce Commission, setting forth the nature and
causes of the accidents and the circumstances connected
therewith. And the same Act (45 U. S. C. § 40) gives the
Commission authority to investigate and to make reports
upon such accidents. It is provided, however, that
"Neither the report required by section 38 of this title nor
any report of the investigation provided for in section 40
of this title nor any part thereof shall be admitted as
evidence or used for any purpose in any suit or action for
damages growing out of any matter mentioned in said
report or investigation." 45 U. S. C. § 41. A similar provision (36 Stat. 916, 54 Stat. 148, 45 U. S. C. § 33) bars the
use in litigation of reports concerning accidents resulting
from the failure of a locomotive boiler or its appurtenances. 45 U. S. C. §§ 32, 33. That legislation reveals
an explicit. Congressional policy to rule out reports of
accidents which certainly have as great a claim to objectivity as the statement sought to be admitted in the present case. We can hardly suppose that Congress modified
or qualified by implication these long standing statutes
when it permitted records made "in the regular course" of
business to be introduced. Nor can we assume that Congress having expressly prohibited the use of the company's
reports on its accidents impliedly altered that policy when
it came to reports by its employees to their superiors. The
inference is wholly the other way.
The several hundred years of history behind the Act
(Wigmore, supra, §§ 1517-1520) indicate the nature of the
reforms which it was designed to effect. It should of
course be liberally interpreted so as to do away with the
anachronistic rules which gave rise to its need and at which
it was aimed. But "regular course" of business must find
its meaning in the inherent nature of the business in question and in the methods systematically employed for the
conduct of the business as a business.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

II. One of respondent's witnesses testified on cross-

examination that he had given a signed statement to one
of respondent's lawyers. Counsel for petitioners asked to
see it. The court ruled that if he called for and inspected
the document, the door would be opened for respondent
to offer the statement in evidence, in which case the court
would admit it. See Edison Electric Light Co. v. U. S.
Electric Lighting Co., 45 F. 55, 59. Counsel for petitioners declined to inspect the statement and took an exception. Petitioners contend that that ruling was reversible error in light of Rule 26 (b) and Rule 34 of the
Rules of Civil Procedure. We do not reach that question.
Since the document was not marked for identification and
is not a part of the record, we do not know what its contents are. It is therefore impossible, as stated by the
court below, to determine whether the statement contained remarks which might serve to impeach the witness.
Accordingly, we cannot say that the ruling was prejudicial
even if we assume it was erroneous. Mere "technical
errors" which do not "affect the substantial rights of the
parties" are not sufficient to set aside a jury verdict in an
appellate court. 40 Stat. 1181, 28 U. S. C. §391. He
who seeks to have a judgment set aside because of an erroneous ruling carries the burden of showing that prejudice resulted. That burden has not been maintained by
petitioners.
III. The final question presented by this case relates
to the burden of proving contributory negligence. As we
have noted, two of the causes of action were based on the
common law and two on a Massachusetts statute. The
court, without distinguishing between them, charged that
petitioners had the burden of proving contributory negligence. To this petitioners excepted, likewise without
distinguishing between the different causes of action.
And again without making any such distinction, peti-

PALMER v. HOFFMAN.
109

Opinion of the Court.

tioners requested the court to charge that the burden was
on respondent. This was refused and an exception noted.
Respondent contends, in the first place, that the charge
was correct because of the fact that Rule 8 (c) of the Rules
of Civil Procedure makes contributory negligence an affirmative defense. We do not agree. Rule 8 (c) covers
only the manner of pleading. The question of the burden
of establishing contributory negligence is a question of
local law which federal courts in diversity of citizenship
cases (Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64) must apply.
Cities Service Oil Co. v. Dunlap, 308 U. S. 208; Sampson
v. Channell, 110 F. 2d 754. And see Central Vermont Ry.
Co. v. White, 238 U. S. 507, 512.
Secondly, respondent contends that the courts below
applied the rule of conflict of laws which obtains in New
York. So far as the causes of action based on the Massachusetts statute are concerned, we will not disturb the
holding below that as a matter of New York conflict of
laws which the trial court was bound to apply (Klaxon
Co. v. Stentor Co., 313 U. S. 487) petitioners had the burden of proving contributory negligence. That ruling was
based on Fitzpatrick v. InternationalRy. Co., 252 N. Y.
127, 169 N. E. 112, which involved an action brought in
New York under a statute of the Province of Ontario.
That statute gave a plaintiff in a negligence action, though
guilty of contributory negligence, a recovery if the defendant was more negligent, the damages being proportioned to the degree of fault imputable to the defendant.
The New York Court of Appeals held that the New York
courts were justified in applying the Ontario rule, growing
out of the statute, that the burden was on the defendant
to show contributory negligence. The Massachusetts
statute on which two of the present causes of action were
founded makes a railroad corporation liable for its neglect
in giving certain signals. It provides that tort damages
for injuries or death from collisions at crossings may be

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U.S.

recovered where such neglect "contributed" to the injury,
"unless it is shown that, in addition to a mere want of
ordinary care, the person injured . . . was, at the
time of the collision, guilty of gross or wilful negligence,
or was acting in violation of the law, and that such gross
or wilful negligence or unlawful act contributed to the
injury." Mass. Gen. L. (1932) c. 160, § 2342. That
statute, like the Ontario statute, creates rightsanot recognized at common law. Brooks v. Fitchburg & L. St. Ry.
Co., 200 Mass. 8, 86 N. E. 289; Duggan v. Bay State Street
Ry. Co., 230 Mass. 370, 381-382, 119 N. E. 757; Sullivan
v. Hustis, 237 Mass. 441, 446, 130 N. E. 247; Lewis v.
Boston & Maine Railroad,263 Mass. 87, 91, 160 N. E. 663.
And in actions under it the burden of proving contributory neglicence is on the defendant. Manley v. Boston
& Maine Railroad, 159 Mass. 493, 34 N. E. 951; Phelps
v. New England R. Co., 172 Mass. 98, 51 N. E. 522; McDonald v. New York C. & H. R. R. Co., 186 Mass. 474,
72 N. E. 55; Kenny v. Boston & Maine Railroad, 188
Mass. 127, 74 N. E. 309. And see Mass. Gen. L. (1932)
c. 231, § 85. Moreover, the measure of damages for death
is "the sum of not less than five hundred nor more than
ten thousand dollars, to be assessed with reference to the
degree of culpability of the" railroad. Mass. Gen. L.
(1932) c. 229, § 3. We are referred to no New York
decision involving the point. The propriety of applying
the rule of the Fitzpatrick case to the causes of action
based on the Massachusetts statute may be arguable.
But it is not the type of ruling under Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, supra, which we will readily disturb. Where the
lower federal courts are applying local law, we will not set
aside their ruling except on a plain showing of error.
The question which is raised on the common law counts
is more serious. The court below did not distinguish between the conflict of laws rule in a case like the Fitzpatrick
case and the rule which apparently obtains in cases where

PALMER v. HOFFMAN.
109

Opinion of the Court.

the foreign cause of action is not founded on such a statute. It was intimated in the Fitzpatrick case (252 N. Y.
p. 135) and stated in other cases in New York's intermediate appellate courts (Wright v. Palmison, 237 App.
Div. 22, 260 N. Y. S. 812; Clark v. Harnischfeger Sales
Corp., 238 App. Div. 493, 495, 264 N. Y. S. 873) that in
the latter situation the burden of proving freedom from
contributory negligence is on the plaintiff. Fitzpatrick v.
InternationalRy. Co., supra, p. 134. But we do not reverse and remand the case to the court below so that it
may examine and make an appropriate application of the
New York law on the common law counts, for the following
reason: As we have noted, petitioners in their exceptions to
the charge given and in the requested charge did not differentiate between the causes of action based on the Massachusetts statute and those on the common law. Even
if we assume that the charge on the latter was erroneous,
we cannot say that the charge was incorrect so far as the
statutory causes of action were concerned. Likewise we
must assume that it would have been error to give the
requested charge on the statutory causes of action even
though we accept it as the correct charge on the others.
Under these facts a general exception is not sufficient.
In fairness to the trial court and to the parties, objections
to a charge must be sufficiently specific to bring into focus
the precise nature of the alleged error. Where a party
might have obtained the correct charge by specifically
calling the attention of the trial court to the error and
where part of the charge was correct, he may not through
a general exception obtain a new trial. See Lincoln v.
Claflin, 7 Wall. 132, 139; Beaver v. Taylor, 93 U. S. 46,
54-55; Mobile & Montgomery Ry. Co. v. Jurey, 111 U: S.
584, 596; McDermott v. Severe, 202 U. S. 600, 611; Norfolk & W. Ry. Co. v. Earnest,229 U. S. 114, 122; Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Minds, 250 U. S. 368, 375. That long
standing rule of federal practice is as applicable in this
513236--43-vol. 318-12

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

type of case as in others. That rule cannot be avoided
here by reason of the requested charge. For, as we have
said, it was at most only partially correct and was not
sufficiently discriminating.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. BROOKS-CALLAWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 366. Argued January 4, 1943.-Decided February 1, 1943.
Under the proviso to Article 9 of the Standard Form of Government
Construction Contract, which provides that the contractor shall

not be charged with liquidated damages because of delays due to
unforeseeable causes, including floods, the remission of liquidated
damages is not warranted where the "flood" was not unforeseeable
but was due to conditions normally to be expected. P. 122.
97 Ct. CIs. 689, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 615, to review a judgment against
the United States in a suit upon a contract.
Mr. Valentine Brookes, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy and Assistant Attorney General Shea were on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. George R. Shields, with whom Messrs. Herman
J. Galloway, John W. Gaskins, and Frederick W. Shields
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
We are asked to decide whether the proviso to Article 9
of the Standard Form of Government Construction Contract,' which provides that a contractor shall not be
I In general, Article 9 gives the Government the option of terminating the contractor's right to proceed, or of allowing him to proceed

