PACIFIC COAST DAIRY v. DEP'T.
Argument for the United States.

PACIFIC COAST DAIRY, INC. v. DEPARTMENT
OF AGRICULTURE OF CALIFORNIA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 275. Argued January 12, 13, 1943.-Decided March 1, 1943.
1. The State of California is precluded by the Federal Constitution
(Art. I, § 8, cl. 17, and the supremacy clause) from revoking the
license of a milk dealer for selling milk to the War Department at
less than the minimum price fixed by state law, where the sales
and deliveries were made on Moffett Field, which is subject to the
exclusive jurisdiction of the United States. Penn Dairies v. Milk
Control Comm'n, ante, p. 261, distinguished. P. 294.
2. Although, by the terms of the federal Government's acquisition,
local law not inconsistent with federal policy was to remain in effect
until altered by federal legislation, the state law here involved was
enacted long after the transfer of sovereignty and was without force
in the enclave. P. 294.
3. As sought here to be applied, the state law was not a regulation of
conduct wholly within the state's jurisdiction. P. 295.
19 Cal. 2d 818, 123 P. 2d 442, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment denying a writ of mandamus
to compel the dismissal of a proceeding pending before the
state Department of Agriculture for the revocation of
petitioner's license as a distributor of milk.

Mr. Carey Van Fleet for appellant.
By special leave of Court, Solicitor General Fahy, with
whom Assistant Attorney General Shea and Messrs.
Archibald Cox and Morton Liftin were on the b'ief, for
the United States, as amicus curiae.
The State of California may not regulate the price at
which milk is sold to the United States. See brief for
appellants in Penn Dairies v. Milk Control Comm'n, ante,
p. 261.
California may not, consistently with due process, revoke appellant's license because it handled milk in California which was subsequently sold on Moffett Field at

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Argument for the United States.

318 U. S.

prices below those fixed by the state law. First, in handling the milk appellant was guilty of no act or omission
in California which was itself contrary to the public
policy of California; California has seized upon such acts
for the sole purpose of regulating contracts made beyond
its borders, which it lacks jurisdiction to control directly.
Second, while a State may forbid conduct within its borders that is itself contrary to its public policy regardless
of the repercussions beyond its borders, it may not regulate conduct, otherwise within its competence to control,
for the sole purpose of regulating matters beyond its jurisdiction, even though the repercussions of the conduct beyond its jurisdiction in turn affect local policies.
It is immaterial that California was seeking to regulate the selling price of milk in the federal enclave in
order to effectuate a reasonable state policy. It is no
more permissible for a State to carry out local policies
by indirectly regulating matters beyond its competence
than it is for the State to do so by direct control.
The question is not whether California may interfere
in the domestic affairs of another State in order to carry
out her policies, but whether it can exercise by indirection
the power of exclusive legislation which the Constitution vests in Congress. No form of words enables a State
to reach "beyond her borders to regulate a subject which
was none of her concern because the Constitution has
placed control elsewhere." Osborn v. Ozlin, 310 U. S. 53,
62. The direction not to handle in California milk sold in
the federal enclave at prices below those fixed by state law
was therefore a nullity. It would be arbitrary, unreasonable and a denial of due process for the appellees'
officials to revoke the license without lawful grounds.
California may not erect barriers to commerce between
California and territory subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States for the purpose of fixing the price
at which her products are sold in such territory.

PACIFIC COAST DAIRY v. DEP'T.
285

Argument for the United States.

The conduct which the statute attempts to regulate is
the preparation and transportation of milk which is to
move outside the State; the statute expressly forbids the
movement of milk from California into the federal enclave
unless the price at which it is sold in the enclave is considered adequate by California authorities to build up the
economy of the State. California has no more authority
to regulate such commerce than it would have if Moffett
Field were in another State.
Art. I, § 8, cl. 17 grants to Congress the power of "exclusive legislation" over territory ceded by a State, and this
authority is enlarged by the "necessary and proper clause"
to include power to enact all appropriate incidental legislation. In respect of such territory, therefore, Congress
has "the combined powers of a generaland of a State government." Stoutenburgh v. Hennick, 129 U. S. 141, 147.
It may regulate the local affairs of a federal enclave in a
local way or it may extend the legislation into the States
to achieve its purposes wherever "necessary and proper."
Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 424-428, 447; O'Donoghue v. United States, 289 U. S. 516, 538-539. Consequently Congress certainly has an affirmative power over
commerce between a State and a federal enclave, which
is at least as great as its power over commerce between two
States. It may determine the terms and conditions upon
which goods may enter and leave an enclave and may
remove any obstructions to the flow of goods into an enclave even though the obstruction exists on state territory.
Moreover, as Stoutenburgh v. Hennick, supra, shows, this
power is possessed by the Congress as part of the powers
of the general government and not as one of the powers
of a State.
The grant of affirmative power to Congress to regulate
commerce between a State and a federal enclave by implication forbids a State to regulate such commerce. The
power of Congress is exclusive at least to the same extent

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Argument for Appellees.

318 U. S.

that the power of Congress over commerce between two
States is exclusive.
That the California legislature regarded the statute as
a measure for protecting the public health does not sustain it. An argument based upon such considerations was
made by New York and rejected in Baldwin v. Seelig, 294
U. S. 511.
The effect on the income of California producers of sales
in the federal enclave at a competitive price is certainly
more remote than the effect upon the New York farmer
of the availability of cheaper milk in Vermont. In California the danger is said to be that California dealers will
so impoverish themselves by selling milk at too low a price
on federal enclaves as to disable themselves from complying with the state law fixing the price which they must pay
to producers for the milk. It has been the judgment of
Congress and of the Department of Agriculture that milk
prices can be fixed and enforced at the producer level alone.
But whatever the danger, it does not justify California in
dealing with a local problem which is at first economic, and
only indirectly a matter of public health, by seeking to
"neutralize the economic consequences of free trade among
the States." Baldwin v. Seelig, supra, p. 525.
Mr. Walter L. Bowers, Deputy Attorney General of
California, with whom Messrs. Robert W. Kenny, Attorney General, W. R. Augustine, Deputy Attorney General,
William T. Sweigert, Assistant Attorney General, and
Bartley C. Crum were on the brief, for appellees.
The California law is a valid exercise of the police power
for the protection of the health and welfare of the people
of the State. In re Willing, 12 Cal. 2d 591, 594; Ray v.
Parker,15 Cal. 2d 275.
The purpose of the statute is to eliminate economic disturbances and unfair practices, and to insure to producers
the necessary costs of production so that an adequate sup-

PACIFIC COAST DAIRY v. DEP'T.
285

Argument for Appellees.

ply of pure and healthful milk may be assured. Such
economic security is necessary in order to maintain essential sanitary standards. In re Willing, supra,p. 594.
The statute is not primarily aimed at what the consumer
shall pay, but at what must be received in order to maintain an adequate supply of pure and wholesome milk.
United Milk Producersv. Cecil, 47 Cal. App. 2d 758.
The incidence of the statute is upon the distributor and
not upon the Government. The legislation is not aimed
at the Government but is designed to meet a local situation which, if left unregulated, presents a menace to the
milk supply of the State and to the health of its inhabitants. The statute in question is not unreasonable, arbitrary, or capricious, and the means adopted bear a real
and substantial relation to the object sought to be attained.
The mere fact that state action may have repercussions
beyond state lines is of no judicial significance. Nebbia v.
New York, 291 U. S.502; Osborn v. Ozlin, 310 U. S.53;
Alaska Packers Assn. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 294
U. S.532.
The statute is not rendered invalid merely because its
practical effect might be to interfere to some extent with
the functioning of an instrumentality of the Government,
so long as such interference or burden is reasonable. The
alleged interference here is reasonable. The statute does
not discriminate against the Government, but is applicable
to the State itself and to its political subdivisions. If the
objectives of the statute are realized, the Government will
benefit in common with the community in general. Milk
Control Board v. Gosselin's Dairy, 301 Mass. 174; Paterson Milk & Cream Co. v. Milk Control Board, 118 N. J.
L. 383; James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134.
The only specific burden claimed to be cast upon the
Government is that of increased cost. Such increased cost
"at most gives rise to a burden which is consequential and
remote and not to one that is necessary, immediate or

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

direct." It is merely incidental to the proper exercise of
the police power. James v. Dravo ContractingCo., supra;
Alabama v. King & Boozer, 314 U. S. 1; James Stewart &
Co. v. Sadrakula,309 U. S. 94.
The state statute does not run counter to the federal
statutes requiring competitive bidding, since it fixes minimum prices only.
The state statute does not run counter to the commerce
clause of the federal Constitution.
To hold at this late date that commerce between a State
and such federal areas within that State is interstate commerce, after nearly a century and a half during which the
States and the federal Government have treated that
commerce as intrastate commerce, would only result in
utter, hopeless confusion. Grayburg Oil Co. v. State, 286
S. W. (Tex.) 489; Grayburg Oil Co. v. State, 3 S.W. 2d
(Tex.) 427; People v. Standard Oil Co., 218 Cal. 123.
Even if it be assumed that such commerce is interstate,
and that under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act
of 1937 the Secretary of Agriculture has the power to
regulate the distribution of milk moving into such federal areas, the fact remains that he has not exercised
such power. Under such conditions the State is not deprived of its power unless and until Congress has actually
acted in a manner hostile to or directly in conflict with
the state regulation. Kelly v. Washington, 302 U. S.1,
10; Allen-Bradley Local v. Wisconsin Board, 315 U. S.
740.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered: the opinion of the
Court.
The appellant challenges a judgment of the Supreme
Court of California' dismissing a writ of alternative
mandamus and denying a'permanent writ to prevent the
119 Cal. 2d 818, 123 P. 2d 442.

PACIFIC COAST DAIRY v. DEP'T.
285

Opinion of the Court.

Department of Agriculture of the State from conducting
a proceeding to revoke its license as a distributor of milk.
The court, in denying relief, overruled several contentions,
based upon the federal Constitution which are here
renewed.
Chapter 10 of the Agricultural Code of California 2 provides a plan for the "stabilization and marketing of fluid
milk and fluid cream." It declares their production and
distribution a business affected with a public interest, and
the regulation of the business an exercise of the police
power; states that existing unjust, unfair, destructive and
demoralizing practices menace the health and welfare of
the people, despite sanitary regulations; and that it is
necessary to promote intelligent production and orderly
marketing by eliminating the evil practices existing in
the industry.
The law empowers the Director of Agriculture to license distributors and to establish marketing areas within
which uniform prices and regulations for the sale of milk
shall prevail.
The appellant was a licensed distributor doing business in the Santa Clara County marketing area, in which
there were in effect a stabilization and marketing plan
and schedules of minimum wholesale and retail prices.
It entered into a contract with the War Department of the
United States, signed by the Quartermaster's Department of Moffett Field, to sell milk to the Department at
Moffett Field, which lies within the boundaries of the
Santa Clara County marketing area, at less than the minimum price fixed for the area. Sales and deliveries under
the contract took place.on Moffett Field.
A complaint was filed with the Department of Agriculture charging the appellant violated § 736.3 (a) (6) of
Deering, 1937, Div. 4, c. 10, §§ 735-738, as amended, Deering,
1941 Supp., pp. 462-467.
2

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

the Code which provides that an unfair practice, warranting revocation of license or prosecution is:
"The purchasing, processing, bottling, transporting, delivering or otherwise handling in any marketing area of
any fluid milk or fluid cream which is to be or is sold or
otherwise disposed of by such distributor at any place in
the geographical area within the outer, outside and external boundaries or limits of such marketing area, whether
such place is a part of the marketing area or not, at less
than the minimum wholesale and minimum retail prices
effective in such marketing area."
This section did not appear in the Code until 1941,1
when it was added as an amendment. California recognized its lack of power to fix retail prices for milk sold
within federal enclaves located in the State.' But the
legislature desired to accomplish this. In 1941 it memorialized Congress, requesting passage of a federal law
requiring purchasing officers of the armed services purchasing food supplies for troops or agencies of the United
States located in the State to refuse bids for milk at prices
below those fixed under the California Milk Stabilization
Law or amendments thereof.' The memorial was referred
to the Committee on Agriculture of the House and to the
Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Senate,'
but was never acted upon by either committee. Congress
having failed to act, § 736.3 (a) (6) and others were added
to the Code, July 16, 1941, for the purpose of reaching sales
on federally owned lands.
Cal. Stats. 1941, Chap. 1214, p. 3008.
'Opinions of California Atty.-Gen. N. S. 1905, N. S. 1950 [1939];
Consolidated Milk Producers v. Parker, 19 Cal. 2d 815, 123 P. 2d
440; cf. Standard Oil Co. v. California, 291 U. S. 242.
5 Cal. Stats. 1941, Chap. 65, p. 3402.
6 87 Cong. Rec., Part 5, 5644, 5698.

PACIFIC COAST DAIRY v. DEP'T.
285

Opinion of the Court.

Moffett Field was acquired by the United States under
an Act of Congress, and it is conceded that it has always
been under the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal
government.'
The appellant sought a writ of mandamus from the
court below to restrain the Department of Agriculture
from proceeding to hear and act upon the pending complaint. An alternative writ issued. After return by the
appellees, setting up only that the complaint failed to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, the
court discharged the alternative writ and denied a preemptory writ. The facts we have recited appear in the
petition for the writ or are matters of which the court
below and this court take judicial notice.
The Supreme Court of California overruled the appellant's contentions that the state's conceded control of activities within its jurisdiction gave it no authority to
penalize transactions occurring on Moffett Field; that the
state law violates the commerce clause of Article I, § 8
of the federal Constitution; that it runs afoul of Congressional action embodied in the federal Agricultural
Marketing Agreement Act,' and that it unlawfully burdens a federal instrumentality. We find it necessary to
consider only the contention first stated.
7Act of February 12, 1931, c. 122, 46 Stat. 1092. This act provides that the tract which is now called Moffett Field shall be accepted
by the United States without cost to the government. The petition
for mandamus alleges that, more than fifteen years ago, Moffett
Field "was purchased by the Government of the United States for
erecting forts, magazines, arsenals, dockyards and other needful
buildings.. . ." The appellant and the government, treat this allega-

tion as conclusive, since it was not denied by the appellees. Nothing
turns, in our view, on the method of acquisition.
8 See Cal. Stats. 1897, p. 51; Political Code of California, § 34;

U. S. Constitution, Art. I, § 8, clause 17.
9 50 Stat. 246, 7 U. S. C. 608c.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

The exclusive character of the jurisdiction of the United
States on Moffett Field is conceded. Article I, § 8, clause
17 of the Constitution of the United States declares the
Congress shall have power "To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over" the District of Columbia, "and to exercise like Authority over all Places
purchased by the Consent of the Legislature of the State
in which the Same shall be, for the Erection of Forts,
Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards, and other needful
Buildings; . . ."
When the federal government acquired the tract, local
law not inconsistent with federal policy remained in force
until altered by national legislation. ° The state statute
involved was adopted long after the transfer of sovereignty
and was without force in the enclave. It follows that contracts to sell and sales consummated within the enclave
cannot be regulated by the California law. To hold otherwise would be to affirm that California may ignore the Constitutional provision that "This Constitution, and the laws
of the United States which shall be made in Pursuance
thereof; ... shall be the supreme Law of the Land; ... ""
It would be a denial of the federal power "to exercise exclusive Legislation." 1 As respects such federal territory
Congress has the combined powers of a general and a state
government.13
The answer of the State and of the court below is one of
confession and avoidance,-confession that the law in fact
operates to affect action by the appellant within federal
territory, but avoidance of the conclusion of invalidity
by the assertion that the law in essence is the regulation of
conduct wholly within the state's jurisdiction.
10 Stewart

& Co. v. Sadrakula,309 U. S. 94, 99.

11 Art. VI, clause 2.

12James v. Dravo ContractingCo., 302 U. S. 134, 141.
13

Stoutenburgh v. Hennick, 129 U. S. 141, 147.

PACIFIC COAST DAIRY v. DEP'T.
285

Opinion of the Court.

The court below points out that the statute regulates
only the conduct of California's citizens within its own territory; that it is the purchasing, handling, and processing
by the appellant in California of milk to be sold below the
fixed price-not the sale on Moffett Field-which is prohibited, and entails the penalties prescribed by the statute.
And reliance is placed upon the settled doctrine that a state
is not disenabled from policing its own concerns, by the
mere fact that its regulations may beget effects on those
living beyond its borders. 4 We think, however, that it is
without application here, because of the authority granted
the federal government over Moffett Field.
In the light of the history of the legislation, we are constrained to find that the true purpose was to punish California's own citizens for doing in exclusively federal territory what by the law of the United States was there
lawful, under the guise of penalizing preparatory conduct
occurring in the State,-to punish the appellant for a
transaction carried on under sovereignty conferred by Art.
I, § 8, clause 17 of the Constitution, and under authority
superior to that of California by virtue of the supremacy
clause.
We have this day held in Penn Dairiesv. Milk Control
Commission, ante, p. 261, that a different decision is required where the contract and the sales occur within a
state's jurisdiction, absent specific national legislation excluding the operation of the state's regulatory laws. The
conclusions may seem contradictory; but in preserving
the balance between national and state power, seemingly
inconsequential differences often require diverse results.
This must be so, if we are to accord to various provisions
of fundamental law their natural effect in the circumstances disclosed. So to do is not to make subtle or tech-4 Alaska Packers Assn. v. Commission, 294 U. S. 532, 541; Osborn
v. Ozlin, 310 U. S. 53, 62-63.
513236-43-vol. 318--23

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

nical distinctions or to deal in legal refinements. Here
we are bound to respect the relevant constitutional provision with respect to the exclusive power of Congress
over federal lands. As Congress may, if it find the national interest so requires, override the state milk law
of Pennsylvania as respects purchases for the Army, so it
may, if not inimical to the same interest subject its purchasing officers on Moffett Field to the restrictions of the
milk law of California. Until it speaks we should enforce
the limits of power imposed by the provisions of the fundamental law.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

and MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON:

While we have joined in the opinion of the Court, we
are also of the view that the judgment below should be
reversed for the additional reason set forth in the dissenting opinion in Penn Dairiesv. Milk Control Commission,
ante, p. 261.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting:,

Both Pennsylvania and California, as part of their control over the supply and distribution of milk for the needs
of their people, regulate the prices at which milk may be
sold within the state. In both states, more particularly at
Indiantown Gap Military Reservation, Pennsylvania,
and at Moffett Field, California, units of the United States
Army are stationed. At each of these sites the contracting
officer, a junior officer in the Quartermaster Corps, invites
bids for the sale of milk to the Army. Are these two con-

PACIFIC COAST DAIRY v. DEP'T.
285

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

tracting officers authorized under existing federal law to
accept bids that undercut the prices fixed by Pennsylvania
and California for the supply of milk within their borders
and thereby dislocate, in part at least, the regulatory systems established by the two states?
In Penn Dairies v. Milk Control Commission, ante, p.
261, Penn Dairies, a milk dealer of Lancaster, Pennsylvania, supplied milk for the use of the Army at Indiantown
Gap Military Reservation. Their sales were the result of
successful bidding at prices below the minima fixed by the
Pennsylvania Milk Control Law. Subsequently, when
Penn Dairies applied for renewal of its license to do business under state law, the Pennsylvania Milk Control Commission denied the application on the ground that the
sales to the Army were not immune from the minimum
price provisions of the Pennsylvania law. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court sustained this determination.
In this case, Pacific Coast Dairy, a milk dealer of San
Francisco, California, supplied milk for the use of the
Army at Moffett Field, about thirty-five miles from San
Francisco. Their sales, too, were the result of successful
bidding at prices below those fixed by California law. For
thus departing from the price provisions of the state law
under which it was licensed to do business, the California
Department of Agriculture instituted proceedings to revoke Pacific Coast Dairy's license. To stay these proceedings the dairy sought a writ of mandamus, which was
denied by the Supreme Court of California.
In my view, the Court in upholding the refusal by
Pennsylvania to renew a license because of an arrangement made on behalf of the Government must imply that
the contracting officer of the Indiantown Military Gap
Reservation was not authorized to accept bids below the
minimum price requirements set by Pennsylvania for the
sale of milk within the state. In the California case, how.

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

ever, the Court holds that the contracting officer for Moffett Field may, in the case of sales and deliveries made on
Moffett Field, contract at prices below those fixed by California for the sale of milk within its borders. Opposite
legal results are thus reached for precisely the same practical situations. The justification for this incongruity in
defining the scope of the authority of the two contracting
officers is attributed to the difference in the nature of the
Government's proprietary interest in each of the two
Army sites. Indiantown Gap Military Reservation is
held by the United States under lease from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Moffett Field belongs to the
United States outright. On the basis of this difference in
the federal Government's proprietary interest in the two
Army facilities, Indiantown Gap Military Reservation is
deemed not to be within the "exclusive jurisdiction" of the
Government while Moffett Field is deemed within such
"exclusive jurisdiction."

And from this classification it is

deduced that milk sold to the Army for the use of our
soldiers at Indiantown Gap Military Reservation must
comply with the price provisions of Pennsylvania law, but
that milk may be sold to the Army for the use of our
soldiers at Moffett Field in disregard of the minimum
prices set by California.
Legal refinements are not always the worse for eluding
the quick understanding of a layman. But I do not believe that in determining the duty of contracting officers
serving the same Army function-a matter that turns on
considerations of policy in the relation of the various
Army posts to the states in which they are situated-legal
categories compel a difference in result where practical
judgment and experience lead to an identity in result.
The power given to Congress by Article I, § 8 of the Constitution, to "exercise exclusive Legislation" over federal
enclaves is not so tyrannical as to preclude in law what

good sense requires.

PACIFIC COAST DAIRY v. DEP'T.
285

FRANxFURWm, J., dissenting.

The so-called exclusive jurisdiction drawn from the
grant to Congress of power to legislate exclusively has, as
a matter of historical fact, become increasingly less and
less exclusive. In early days when the activities of the
federal Government made only negligible inroads upon
territorial areas within the states, it was assumed that
federal exclusiveness was a fact rather than a potentiality,
and that the states were precluded from reserving authority in lands within the state which were ceded to the
Government. But this notion never became law, and has
now been formally repudiated. "The possible importance
of reserving to the State jurisdiction for local purposes
which involve no interference with the performance of
governmental functions is becoming more and more clear
as the activities of the Government expand and large
areas within the States are acquired." James v. Dravo
ContractingCo., 302 U. S.134, 148; and see Silas Mason
Co. v. Tax Comm'n, 302 U. S. 186. Indeed, in the case
of Moffett Field itself the authority of the United States
is not in any true sense exclusive, even as to matters of
political authority, for California's act of cession provided
that both criminal and civil process issued by California
should have the same sanction on Moffett Field as elsewhere in the state.
Since exclusive authority need not be exercised by Congress, there is at times "uncertainty and confusion"
whether jurisdiction belongs to the federal Government
or has been left with the state. Bowen v. Johnston, 306
U. S.19, 27. And although the acts of cession may leave
"no room for doubt" that "jurisdiction" "remained with
the State," "administrative construction" may nevertheless generate federal jurisdiction. Id., at 29. Even where
the federal Government supposedly has "exclusive" jurisdiction, a close examination of complicated legislation
may uphold excise tax provisions of a state alcoholic beverage control law but not provisions that "go beyond aids

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANKFURtER, J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

to the collection of taxes and are truly regulatory in character." Collins v. Yosemite Park Co., 304 U. S. 518, 533.
And while lip service is paid to the doctrine of "exclusive
jurisdiction" by professing to absorb for federal enclaves
those laws of the state which were enforced there prior
to its cession, the liberality with which state social measures are deemed not to impinge upon the national
purposes for which the enclave was established, is a recognition in fact that the Constitution permits sensible adjustments between state and federal authority although
activities subject to legal control take place on federal
territory within a state. See, e. g., Stewart & Co. v. Sadrakula, 309 U. S. 94.
Enough has been said to show that the doctrine of
"exclusive jurisdiction" over federal enclaves is not an
imperative. The phrase is indeed a misnomer for the
manifold legal phases of the diverse situations arising out
of the existence of federally-owned lands within a stateproblems calling not for a single, simple answer but for
disposition in the light of the national purposes which an
enclave serves. If Congress speaks, state power is of
course determined by what Congress says. If Congress
makes the law of the state in which there is a federal site
as foreign there as is the law of China, then federal jurisdiction would really be exclusive. But short of such Congressional assertion of overriding authority, the phrase
"exclusive jurisdiction" more often confounds than solves
problems due to our federal system.
It is certainly an irrelevant factor in the legal equation
before us. For in neither the Pennsylvania nor the California case is the power of Congress or of appropriately
exercised military authority called into question. As to
Pennsylvania, the Court has found that neither Congressional legislation nor discernible legislative policy immunized a government contractor from state regulation.
Of course, if Congressional policy, howsoever expressed,

'PACIFIC COAST DAIRY v. DEP'T.
285

FRANKFURTR,

J., dissenting.

authorized the Quartermaster to enter into such a contract
in disregard of local milk price control legislation, the
contractor would be immune from obedience to local requirements. Nor has controlling assertion of military
authority to disregard local price control been found.
There is no suggestion that Congress or the Army has a
policy regarding the purchase of milk for soldiers stationed
in California which differs from that in Pennsylvania.
State regulation, we have held in the case of Pennsylvania,
"imposes no prohibition on the national government or its
officers." 'Neither does the California regulation. It
clearly does not as to federal sites in California which have
been leased to the Government, like the Indiantown Gap
Military Reservation, or to sites where the state has reserved concurrent jurisdiction, like those in the Dravo and
Mason cases, supra, or to federal territory where jurisdiction is doubtful or ambiguous, like the reservation in
Bowen V.Johnston, supra. The California Supreme Court
advises us that within the confines of California the
United States is engaged in a great variety of activities:
"The federal territory within the state is so fragmented
that there may be several federal islands within a single
marketing area. If they are citadels of immunity from
state jurisdiction, they are also exceptional segments in
areas that are otherwise subject to that jurisdiction.
They stand out like colored pins on the map of California,
and range from military reservations to soldiers' homes,
from court houses to penitentiaries, from post offices to
Indian reservations, from national parks to regional
dams." 19 Cal. 2d 818, 828.
Can it be that the considerations of policy which resulted in a finding that neither the Constitution nor Congressional authority nor appropriate military regulation
enabled the Army contracting officer in Pennsylvania, in
supplying milk to the soldiers stationed in Pennsylvania,
to free local dealers from the necessity of complying with

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

a social measure not unrelated to health and deemed important to the welfare of the people of Pennsylvania, are
present in some parts of California and not in others?
And must a junior contracting officer of the Quartermaster Corps now attempt to ascertain whether these considerations of policy do or do not apply, depending upon
whether the particular enclave is within the "exclusive
jurisdiction" of the federal Government-a question so
recondite, as the cases show, that it may be settled only
by this Court after long travail? Is the result to turn
upon the niceties of the law of sales and contracts? Suppose, for example, that the negotiations occur and the
contracts are signed off Moffett Field, but delivery takes
place there. Must inquiry be made as to where title has
"passed" and the sale consummated?
These are not far-fetched suppositions. They are the
inevitable practical consequences of making decision here
depend upon technicalities of "exclusive jurisdiction"legal subtleties which may become relevant in dealing
with prosecution for crime, devolution of property, liability for torts, and the like, but which as a matter of good
sense surely are wholly irrelevant in defining the duty of
contracting officers of the United States in making contracts in the various States of the Union, where neither
Congress nor the authoritative voice of the Army has
spoken. In the absence of such assertion of superior
authority, state laws such as those here under consideration appear, as a matter of sound public policy, equally
appropriate whether the federal territory encysted within
a state be held on long or short term lease or be owned by
the Government on whatever terms of cession may have
been imposed.
We are not dealing here with the authority of Congress,
about which there can be no controversy, but with the
authority of Government contracting officers. It is surely
the policy of neither Congress nor the Army that such

PACIFIC COAST DAIRY v. DEP'T.
285

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

authority should vary from state to state or from post
to post within the same state. On the contrary, there
is every reason for assuming that, in the matter here involved, uniformity throughout the land is deemed an
essential element of the national policy. Since, as the
Court holds in the Pennsylvania case, the national interest
is furthered rather than impaired by requiring the Quartermaster at the Indiantown Military Reservation to observe the Pennsylvania Milk Control Law, there is every
reason why the Quartermaster at Moffett Field should
likewise observe the similar California law. And since
he should observe the state law, California has a right
to insist that the milk dealer licensed by it should not
participate in a violation of the law of his state, by license
from which he does business.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

dissenting:

I dissent for reasons stated in concurrence in Penn
Dairies v. Milk Control Commission, ante, p. 261. The
fact that Moffett Field is a federal enclave instead
of a leasehold does not justify denying California the
power to protect the public health by requiring milk
dealers selling to the United States to receive a minimum
price, a power which we have today held that Pennsylvania possesses. True, Congress is given the power "to
exercise exclusive legislation" over federal areas such as
Moffett Field (Constitution, Art. I, § 8, cl. 17), but that
does not necessarily mean that the States, no matter what
their interest or need, are absolutely without power to
enact legislation, not inconsistent with Congressional
policy or Constitutional dictates, which will apply in some
measure to those areas which are within their boundaries.
Before holding that this clause invalidates important state
legislation like that now before us, especially at a time
when federal activities are greatly expanding and 'vast
areas are being acquired within the States by the federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

government, the reasonableness and necessity of such a
decision should be thoughtfully examined.
We derive much of our strength as a nation from our
dual system of federal government. To promote the harmonious working of that system the general clauses of the
Constitution which broadly delineate the boundaries of
state and national power should be construed by appraising
the respective state and national interests involved and
striking a balance which gives appropriate recognition to
the legitimate concerns of each government. Since those
boundaries are not absolutes, the question necessarily is
one of reasonableness and degree. Cf. Holmes, J., dissenting in PanhandleOil Co. v. Knox, 277 U. S. 218, 222, and
again in Springerv. PhilippineIslands, 277 U. S. 189, 209210. This is the method which we have applied in testing
state regulation of interstate commerce,' and it should
govern the construction of the "exclusive legislation"
clause. If a state is acting in matters normally within its
competence, with which it is especially equipped to deal, to
achieve important governmental ends such as the protection of the public health and welfare or the maintenance
of orderly marketing conditions, the effects of its action
should be allowed to extend into federal areas within its
1While it is Congress that is given the power to regulate commerce
among the States, some state regulation of that commerce is permissible.
"When Congress has not exerted its power under the Commerce Clause,
and state regulation of matters of local concern is so related to interstate commerce that it also operates as a regulation of that commerce,
the reconciliation of the power thus granted with that reserved to the
state is to be attained by the accommodation of the competing demands
of the state and national interests involved." Parker v. Brown, 317
U. S. 341, 361-363. State regulation is to be upheld if "upon a consideration of all the relevant facts and circumstances it appears that
the matter is one which may appropriately be regulated in the interest
of the safety, health and well-being of local communities, and which,
because of its local character and the practical difficulties involved, may
never be adequately dealt with by Congress." Ibid., p. 362.

PACIFIC COAST DAIRY v. DEP'T.
285

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

boundaries unless inconsistent with an act of Congress or
the provisions or necessary implications of the Constitution. This formula allows the States to carry out important programs which must be of state-wide application to
be effective and adequately recognizes the paramount
character of federal power. Since we have held the comparable Pennsylvania statute does not contravene any act
of Congress or the Constitution (Penn Dairies v. Milk
Control Commission, supra), the instant California legislation satisfies this test.
The "exclusive legislation" clause has not been regarded
as absolutely exclusory, ' and no convincing reason has
been advanced why the nature of the federal power is
such that it demands that all state legislation adopted subsequent to the acquisition of an enclave must have no
application in the area. In waging war under modern
conditions it is essential that state and national, military
and civilian authorities, work together as a unit, each
complementing the others. The state governments have
functions to perform that are vital to the war program,
including those functions pertaining to the public health.
So long as there is no overriding national purpose to be
'served, nothing is gained by making federal enclaves
thorns in the side of the States and barriers to the effective
state-wide performance of those functions. Indeed both
the federal government and the nation as a whole suffer
if the solution of legitimate matters of local concern is
thus thwarted and local animosity created for no purpose.
2 The common sense view has been taken that even though Congress.
has not legislated to that effect, local law existing at the time an
enclave is acquired, which does not defeat the national purpose,
remains in effect within the enclave until altered by Congress.
Stewart & Co. v. Sadrakula, 309 U. S. 94. And the States may qualify
their consent to the federal government's purchase by retaining some
measure of jurisdiction. James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S.
134.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

A disposition on the part of the federal government or
its military arm to ignore local regulations such as the
present one is not only fraught with danger to the public
health, but also may create a public feeling of distrust
which itself will hamper the military effort.
If Congress exercises its paramount legislative power
over Moffett Field to deny California the right to do as
it has sought to do here, the matter is of course at an end.
But until Congress does so, it should be the aim of the
federal military procurement officers to observe statutes
such as this established by state action in furtherance
of the public health and welfare, and otherwise so conduct
their affairs as to promote public confidence and good will.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. SABINE TRANSPORTATION CO.,
INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 518.

Argued February 4, 1943.-Decided March 1, 1943.

1. In 1937, a corporation paid dividends partly in its own promissory
notes. Pursuant to § 27 (d) of the Revenue Act of 1936, it claimed
and was allowed, in respect of its liability for undistributed profits
tax, the face amount of the notes as part of its "dividends paid
credit." In 1938, it retired the notes by payment of their face
amount. Held that the amounts thus paid in retiring the notes
were includible in the "dividends paid credit" under § 24 (a) (4)
of the Revenue Act of 1938, as "amounts used . . . to pay or to
retire indebtedness of any kind." P. 310.
Section 27 (e) of the Revenue Act of 1938 does not limit or
qualify § 27 (a) (4).
2. To the extent that Art. 27 (a)-3 of Treasury Regulations 101
forbids (as a "double credit") the credit claimed in this case, it is
inconsistent with the plain terms of the Act and invalid. P. 311.
128 F. 2d 945, affirmed.

