OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

A disposition on the part of the federal government or
its military arm to ignore local regulations such as the
present one is not only fraught with danger to the public
health, but also may create a public feeling of distrust
which itself will hamper the military effort.
If Congress exercises its paramount legislative power
over Moffett Field to deny California the right to do as
it has sought to do here, the matter is of course at an end.
But until Congress does so, it should be the aim of the
federal military procurement officers to observe statutes
such as this established by state action in furtherance
of the public health and welfare, and otherwise so conduct
their affairs as to promote public confidence and good will.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. SABINE TRANSPORTATION CO.,
INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 518.

Argued February 4, 1943.-Decided March 1, 1943.

1. In 1937, a corporation paid dividends partly in its own promissory
notes. Pursuant to § 27 (d) of the Revenue Act of 1936, it claimed
and was allowed, in respect of its liability for undistributed profits
tax, the face amount of the notes as part of its "dividends paid
credit." In 1938, it retired the notes by payment of their face
amount. Held that the amounts thus paid in retiring the notes
were includible in the "dividends paid credit" under § 24 (a) (4)
of the Revenue Act of 1938, as "amounts used . . . to pay or to
retire indebtedness of any kind." P. 310.
Section 27 (e) of the Revenue Act of 1938 does not limit or
qualify § 27 (a) (4).
2. To the extent that Art. 27 (a)-3 of Treasury Regulations 101
forbids (as a "double credit") the credit claimed in this case, it is
inconsistent with the plain terms of the Act and invalid. P. 311.
128 F. 2d 945, affirmed.

HELVERING v. SABINE TRANS. CO.
306
CERTIORARI,

Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S. 620, to review the reversal of a

decision of the Board of Tax Appeals sustaining an order
of the Commissioner disallowing a credit in the computation of respondent's tax under the Revenue Act of 1938.
Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs. Sewall
Key, J. Louis Monarch, Arthur A. Armstrong, and Valentine Brookes were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Chas. I. Francis for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In this case the Circuit Court of Appeals held the respondent entitled to include in its dividends paid credit,
pursuant to § 27' of the Revenue Act of 1938, the amount
paid to redeem notes given for dividends in a prior year.2
The Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit had
held to the contrary.' To resolve the conflict we granted
certiorari.
In 1937 the respondent paid dividends, $30,000 in cash
and $530,000 in its ten year eight per cent notes. As respects its liability for undistributed profits tax, it claimed
and was allowed, pursuant to § 27 (d) of the Revenue
Act of 1936," as *Partof its "dividends paid credit," the
face value of the notes. In 1938 the respondent paid off
the notes, and in its return for that year claimed the sum
paid as a part of its "dividends paid credit" under the
Revenue Act of 1938, § 27 (a) (4).' The Commissioner's
disallowance of the claim was sustained by the Boara of
1Act of May 28, 1938, c. 289, 52 Stat. 447, 468.
2 128

F. 2d 945.
8 Spokane Dry Goods Co. v. Commissioner, 125 F. 2d 865.
449 Stat. 1648, 1665.
'52 Stat. 468.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Tax Appeals, but the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed
the Board's decision.
The position of the petitioner is that the second credit
claimed would duplicate the earlier one allowed and that
§ 27 of the Revenue Act of 1938 does not permit the
duplication.
The Revenue Act of 1936, by § 13, imposed on corporations a tax ranging from eight to fifteen per cent of the
so-called "normal-tax net income," consisting of net income less certain permitted deductions. It then laid a
graduated surtax on "undistributed net income" which it
defined as the adjusted net income (the normal-tax net
income after credits) less the so-called "dividends paid
credit." By § 27 the Act defined the latter as comprising
dividends paid during the taxable year including (27 (d))
dividends in obligations of the company to be reckoned at
face value or market value, whichever was lower. The
subsection also provided that, if such obligations were
redeemed in any subsequent year, the excess of the redemption payment over the fair market value of the obligations as of the date of their issue should be treated as
a dividend paid in the year'of redemption.
The purpose of these provisions is clear and is a matter
of common knowledge. Congress desired to encourage the
payment of dividends so that the earnings of corporations
might be subjected not only to normal tax as against the
corporation, but also to taxation as income to the stockholders.' The means adopted was to relieve the corporation from surtax to the extent of dividends paid in cash or
6It appears that respondent's sole stockholders are two corporations,
but we do not understand petitioner to contend that this circumstance
affects the operation or application of § 27. It is assumed that these
two corporations are bona fide stockholders of respondent and paid
taxes on the dividends they received. The section in terms applies to
every corporate taxpayer whether it has but two stockholders which
are corporations or two thousand who are natural persons.

HELVERING v. SABINE TRANS. CO.
306

Opinion of the Court.

in obligations. The latter would be taxed to stockholders
at their market value. If they were redeemed in a later
year, at a figure above such value as of the date of their
issue, the excess would be taxed to the holder as income
to him in the year of redemption. Fairness dictated that
in such case the corporation should have a further dividends paid credit for this excess of value paid by it.
The Revenue Act of 1938 adopted a different plan of
corporate taxation. With respect to a corporation having
the amount of income earned by the respondent, § 13
imposed a tentative tax of 19% of "adjusted net income,"
which was the entire net income less certain deductions
not here material. This tentative tax was to be reduced
by the sum of two deductions. One of these is not in issue
here. The other is 2 % of the "dividends paid credit,"
not however to exceed 2 % of the adjusted net income.
The dividends paid credit is defined by § 27. It consists
of four items, two of which are carry-overs from previous
years, which need not concern us; and two others which
are important in this case,-first, the "basic surtax credit,"
§ (a) (1), and, secondly, "amounts used . . . to pay or
to retire indebtedness of any kind, if such amounts are
reasonable with respect to the size and terms of such
indebtedness," § (a) (4).' Indebtedness is defined as indebtedness existing at the close of business December 31,
1937, and evidenced by bond, note, debenture, certificate
of indebtedness, mortgage or deed of trust issued by the
corporation and in existence at the close of business December 31, 1937, or a bill of exchange accepted prior to
and in existence at that time. The term is further defined as covering principal only and not interest thereon.
The basic surtax credit is the sum of several items, including cash dividends paid and certain other specified
7No question is made in this case as to the reasonableness of the

amount paid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

credits. Dividends in kind are to be valued and treated
as cash dividends. Subsection (e) provides that, in computing the basic surtax credit, a dividend paid in obligations of the corporation shall be treated as a cash dividend
in the amount of the face value of the obligations or their
market value, whichever is lower, and that, if the obligations are redeemed in a subsequent year, any excess paid
the holders over the market value at date of issue shall be
treated as a dividend paid in that year. This provision,
it will be noted, is similar to § 27 (d) of the Revenue Act
of 1936.' But the credit of which it forms a part differs
from that of the earlier Act as it is against the tax and not
against income and is limited to 2 % of adjusted income.
The use of the credit, may, therefore, produce results
materially different from the use of the credit granted by
the 1936 Act.
The petitioner asserts that Congress did not intend
the taxpayer to have two credits as a result of payment of
a dividend in its own obligations, that exemptions or
credits should be strictly construed as against the taxpayer, and that the regulations promulgated under the
Revenue Act of 1938 clearly deny the deduction claimed
in this case.

..

On the face of the 1938 Act the items which go toward
making up the basic surtax credit under § 27 (b) are distinct from the credit for indebtedness paid under § 27 (a)
(4). Although the note obligations paid by the respondent were issued in payment of dividends for a prior year
they, nevertheless, fall within the precise terms of
§ 27 (a) (4). In this connection § 27 (e) might have application if the redemption of the notes had been at a figure
greater than their face or market value at the time they
were issued to the stockholders, for in that case § 27 (e)
would have permitted the respondent to take a credit for
the excess of the redemption price over the value at date of
issue as a dividend paid in the current year. But we

HELVERING v. SABINE TRANS. CO.
306

Opinion of the Court.

think that § 27 (e) does not otherwise bear on a payment
such as that in question and does not qualify the plain
intent of § 27 (a) (4).
The Congress had in the 1936 Act encouraged the payment of dividends in obligatioris. It knew that many
corporations had done so. With this knowledge it
adopted the sweeping language of § 27 (a) (4) of the Act
of 1938. As introduced the section spoke only of indebtedness. It was amended by the Senate Finance Committee by adding the words "of any kind" after the word
"indebtedness," for the purpose of clarification.8 These
facts, without more, make plain the scope of the provision,
and answer the contentions that no credit was intended to
be granted for the payment in the taxable year of obligations issued for dividends in a prior year. If more were
needed, it should be noted that had the corporation borrowed money in a prior year to pay a dividend, the payment of the debt in a later year would clearly have
entitled it to credit for the payment under § 27 (a) (4).
There is no reason for assuming that Congress intended to
treat the two cases differently, and it has, in plain terms,
granted a credit in both.
What has been said respecting § 27 (e) indicates that
it does not limit or qualify § 27 (a) (4). It may supplement it in a case where the payment of the obligations
issued for dividends is in excess of the market value of
those obligations when they were issued. The argument
that it is a specific provision, qualifying an earlier general
provision of § 27, must be rejected.
It remains to consider the Treasury Regulations promulgated under the 1938 Act.' These forbid a credit such
as that claimed in this case, calling it a "double credit."
We think the regulations are in the teeth of the unambiguous mandate of the statute, are contradictory of its plain
8Senate

Finance Committee Report, S. R. 1242, 75th Cong., 1st Sess.
"Regulations 101, Art. 27 (a)-3.
513236--43-vol. 318-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

terms, and amount to an attempt to legislate.

318 U. S.

They can-

not prevail to preclude the credit claimed. ° The
Judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
with whom MR. JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY concur, dissenting.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

DOUGLAS

The taxpayer, Sabine Transportation Co., Inc., is a
Delaware corporation doing business in Texas. Its stock
is held in equal amounts by two other corporations, Sabine
Towing Co., Inc., and The Pure Oil Corporation. In 1937,
a dividend of $530,000.00 was declared, amounting to
$35.331/3 per share on the common stock. The dividend
was paid to the two corporate owners by execution of
ten year, eight per cent notes. The taxpayer then claimed
and was allowed a "dividend paid credit" under the 1936
Act on its 1937 tax. In 1938 the taxpayer paid to its
two corporate stockholders the full face value of the ten
year notes. It is now given a second "dividends paid
credit" under the 1938 Act on its 1938 tax.
This $530,000.00 has left the corporate treasury only
once. Bookkeeping devices and paper contrivances
should not be permitted to make two payments out of
one; and if two deductions are permitted, why not three
or more? The possibilities of manipulation of notes,
bonds, stocks, and every other cash substitute imaginable,
are particularly apparent when, as here, the taxpayer and
its stockholders are so closely interrelated. Congress has
passed no tax statutes which compel me to conclude that
it intended to reward ingenuity in paper work by granting multiple tax reductions for a single money payment to
discharge a single corporate obligation.
10Helvering

v. Credit Alliance Corp., 316 U. S. 107.

