EMIL v. HANLEY.
448

Syllabus.

it had decided that question of law. In other cases, where
the issue of fairness and equity depends upon the facts
disclosed, I think it is the duty of the court to go farther
and examine the plan sufficiently to satisfy itself that
the rule of absolute priority announced in the Boyd case
and in the Los Angeles and Rock Products cases has not
been violated. In performing this duty the court should
accord great weight to the Commission's action. It should
require the objector to show that the Commission has
failed to respect the doctrine. But it should not accord
finality to the Commission's action if there be any evidence to support it. I believe the court is charged by
subsection (e) with the duty of determining that, in the
allocation of securities in the reorganized company, the
Commission has a substantial foundation in the facts for
the allocation of securities required by the plan it
approves.
I concur in the judgment of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER joins in this opinion.

EMIL, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v. HANLEY,
RECEIVER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 551.

Argued February 12, 1943.-Decided March 15, 1943.

1. Section 2 (a) (21) of the Bankruptcy Act, which gives to the bankruptcy court the power to require "receivers or trustees appointed
in proceedings not under this Act" within four months of bankruptcy
(1) "to deliver the property in their possession or under their control to the receiver or trustee appointed under this Act," and (2)
"to account to the court for the disposition by them of the property"
of the bankrupt, held inapplicable in straight bankruptcy proceedings to a receiver appointed by a state court (within four months

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

of bankruptcy) as an incident to enforcement of a valid mortgage
lien. P. 519.
2. Section 69 (d) of the Bankruptcy Act, making a "receiver or
trustee, not appointed under this Act, of any of the property" of
the bankrupt "accountable" to the bankruptcy court for "any
action taken by him subsequent to the filing of such bankruptcy
petition," applies only where bankruptcy supersedes the prior proceedings. P. 522.
130 F. 2d 369, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 621, to review the affirmance of
an order of the bankruptcy court, 43 F. Supp. 128, denying
an application for an order requiring a state court receiver
to file his account in the bankruptcy court.
Mr. David Haarfor petitioner.
Mr. John P. McGrath for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
John M. Russell, Inc., was the owner of an apartment
house in New York. On August 13, 1940, a foreclosure
suit by a third mortgagee was filed. On August 17, 1940,
the state court appointed respondent receiver of the' rents
and profits of the apartment house. On August 31, 1940,
an involuntary petition in bankruptcy was filed against
John M. Russell, Inc., of which petitioner was subsequently appointed as trustee. Respondent collected the
rents from the premises from the time'of his appointment in August, 1940 to and including August, 1941.
While that foreclosure suit was pending, mechanics liens,
subordinate to the third mortgage, were foreclosed, a sale
was had, and the property purchased by Apartment Investing Corporation. That was in February, 1941. Judgment in the mortgage foreclosure suit was entered in
June, 1941, and on August 13, 1941, before the sale was
held, the judgment was paid and satisfied by Apartment

EMIL v. HANLEY.
515

Opinion of the Court.

Investing Corporation.
Thereafter, respondent presented his accounts to the state court for settlement. Petitioner applied to the bankruptcy court for an order
directing respondent to file his account in that court.
While that motion was pending, the motion in the state
court came on for a hearing. Petitioner appeared and
filed his objections to respondent's accounts. His objections were overruled,1 the accounts approved, and respondent discharged by the state court. Thereafter the
bankruptcy court denied petitioner's motion. 43 F. Supp.
128. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed by a divided
vote. 130 F. 2d 369. We granted the petition for a
writ of certiorari because of the importance of the problem in the administration of the Bankruptcy Act.
Petitioner contends that § 2 (a) (21) and § 69d make
it obligatory on the respondent as a non-bankruptcy
receiver to account to the bankruptcy court. These provisions of the Bankruptcy Act are new. They were
added in 1938 by the Chandler Act. 52 Stat. 840, 11 U. S.
C. § 11 (a) (21), § 109d. Sec. 2 (a) (21) gives to the
bankruptcy court the power in straight bankruptcy proceedings to require "receivers or trustees appointed in
proceedings not under this Act" within four months of
bankruptcy (1) "to deliver the property in their possession or under their control to the receiver or trustee appointed under this Act," and (2) "to account to the court
for the disposition by them of the property" of the bankrupt.2 Sec. 69d makes a "receiver or trustee, not ap1

The court holding that all rights of the bankrupt in the real property were cut off February 24, 1941; that on that day there was a
deficit in the receiver's account; and that the balance of rents had
accrued subsequent to February 24, 1941.
2 Sec. 2 (a) (21) sets forth as one of the enumerated powers of
courts of bankruptcy, the power to: "Require receivers or trustees
appointed in proceedings not under this Act, assignees for the benefit
of creditors, and agents authorized to take possession of or to liquidate

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

pointed under this Act, of any of the property" of the
bankrupt "accountable" to the bankruptcy court for "any
action taken by him subsequent to the filing of such bankruptcy petition." These sections are in part declaratory
of the law as it existed prior to the Chandler Act. Thus,
§ 2 (a) (21) plainly includes the case where a lien against
a person's property to deliver the property in their possession or under
their control to the receiver or trustee appointed under this Act or,
where an arrangement or a plan under this Act has been confirmed
and such property has not prior thereto been delivered to a receiver
or trustee appointed under this Act, to deliver such property to the
debtor or other person entitled to such property according to the
provisions of the arrangement or plan, and in all such cases to account
to the court for the disposition by them of the property of such bankrupt or debtor: Provided, however, That such delivery and accounting
shall not be required, except in proceedings under chapters X and XII
of this Act, if the receiver or trustee was appointed, the assignment
was made, or the agent was authorized more than four months prior
to the date of bankruptcy. Upon such accounting, the court shall
reexamine and determine the propriety and reasonableness of all disbursements made out of such property by such receiver, trustee,
assignee, or agent, either to himself or to others, for services and expenses under such receivership, trusteeship, assignment, or agency,
and shall, unless such disbursements have been approved, upon notice
to creditors and other parties in interest, by a court of competent
jurisdiction prior to the proceeding under this Act, surcharge such
receiver, trustee, assignee, or agent the amount of any disbursement
determined by the court to have been improper or excessive."
8 See. 69d provides: "Upon the filing of a petition under this Act, a
receiver or trustee, not appointed under this Act, of any of the property
of a bankrupt shall be accountable to the bankruptcy court, in which
the proceeding under this Act is pending, for any action taken by him
subsequent to the filing of such bankruptcy petition, and shall file
in such bankruptcy court a sworn schedule setting forth a summary
of the property in his charge and of the liabilities of the estate, both
as of the time of and since his appointment, and a sworn statement
of his administration of the estate. Such receiver or trustee, with
knowledge of the filing of such bankruptcy proceeding, shall not make
any disbursements or take any action in the administration of such
property without first obtaining authorization therefor from the bankruptcy court."

EMIL v. HANLEY.
515

Opinion of the Court.

the debtor's property was acquired by some legal or equitable proceeding within four months of bankruptcy. Prior
to 1938 such liens did not survive bankruptcy (Stratonv.
New, 283 U. S. 318, 322); and bankruptcy superseded the
proceedings out of which they arose. Remington, Bankruptcy (4th ed.) § 2067-§ 2071. But the accountability
of the non-bankruptcy receiver or trustee presented
some difficulties prior to the Chandler Act. When bankruptcy superseded the prior proceedings, all disbursements subsequent thereto were, of course, subject to the
exclusive control of the bankruptcy court. In re Diamond's Estate, 259 F. 70; Moore v. Scott, 55 F. 2d 863;
Lion Bonding & Surety Co. v. Karatz, 262 U. S. 640, 642;
Gross v. Irving Trust Co., 289 U. S. 342. While such disbursements were generally subject to the summary power
of the bankruptcy court (Taylor v. Sternberg, 293 U. S.
470), an accounting for disbursements made prior to bankruptcy required a plenary suit. Loveless v. Southern
Grocer Co., 159 F. 415; 1 Collier, Bankruptcy (14th ed.)
pp. 320-321. And see Galbraithv. Vallely, 256 U. S. 46;
In re Jack Stolkin, Inc., 42 F. 2d 829. Sec. 2 (a) (21) by
substituting a summary proceeding was designed to eliminate the delay and cost of a plenary suit and to provide a
more effective control over prior disbursements. See
H. Rep. No. 1409, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 20; Weinstein,
The Bankruptcy Law of 1938, pp. 16-17.
Does § 2 (a) (21) go further and apply to a case where a
receiver is appointed within four months of bankruptcy as
an incident to enforcement of a mortgage lien whose validity is not challenged? Prior to the Chandler Act such
proceedings were not superseded by bankruptcy. They
survived bankruptcy, the interest of the estate in them being protected by the intervention of the bankruptcy trustee. Straton v. New, supra, pp. 326-327, and cases cited.
Under the earlier Act it made no difference whether
such a proceeding was instituted prior to or within the
513236-43--vol. 318-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

four months period. Where the lien survived bankruptcy, prior proceedings to enforce it would not be enjoined by the bankruptcy court. , 1 Collier, op. cit., pp.
306-309; Straton v. New, supra, p. 326, n. 6. Sec. 2 (a)
(21) read literally would call for a different result, in that
foreclosure receivers would have to turn over to the bankruptcy court all the property in their possession or under
their control, and account to it. In this case, since the
receiver was only a receiver for rents and profits, it would
mean that the foreclosure would go on apace in the state
court while the funds collected by the receiver would be
turned over to the bankruptcy court for administration.
The argument advanced in support of that view is that
with such power the bankruptcy court could better protect
the interests of the estate in the foreclosure proceeding.
But we do not think that that was part of the purpose
of § 2 (a) (21). As we have stated, the main purpose of
§ 2 (a) (21) was to give the bankruptcy court control over
disbursements made in non-bankruptcy proceedings prior
to the filing of the petition. The House Judiciary Committee in its report stated: "There is no logical reason why
the bankruptcy court could not supervise these expenditures, since all of the previous proceedings are nullified by
the petition in bankruptcy followed by an adjudication.
The principle is the same as that involved in section 60d
of the act where it is provided that fees paid to the attorney for the debtor prior to bankruptcy and in contemplation thereof are subject to review by the bankruptcy
court." H. Rep. No. 1409, supra, p. 20. That is as plain
an indication as could be made that § 2 (a) (21) was designed to define the powers of the bankruptcy court only
where bankruptcy superseded the prior proceedings.'
The language of § 2 (a) (21) squares with that express
4We do not, of course, include that supersession which flows from
the fact that state insolvency laws are involved which are "tantamount
to bankruptcy." Straton v. New, supra,p. 327.

EMIL v. HANLEY.
515

Opinion of the Court.

declaration. When Congress wrote the four months proviso into § 2 (a) (21) it was not writing on a clean slate.
The presence of that proviso suggests the type of problem
with which Congress was dealing. Straton v. New, supra,
indicates the importance of that period in a determination
of what liens did not survive bankruptcy and when bankruptcy proceedings superseded prior proceedings. The
1938 Act, like its predecessor, makes the four months period part of the critical test for determining what liens do
not survive bankruptcy. One example is to be found in
§ 67a (1) which provides that liens "obtained by attachment, judgment, levy, or other legal or equitable process
or proceedings.within four months" of bankruptcy are null
and void on certain conditions. That section illustrates
the relevancy of the four months period to this type of
problem. If § 2 (a) (21) is read to extend the power of
the bankruptcy court to the present situation,5 the four
months period will have acquired a new significance in
bankruptcy law. We cannot help but think that if Congress had set out to make such a major change, some clear
and unambiguous indication of that purpose would appear. But we can find none. Moreover, such an interpretation would lead in many cases to a division of authority between state and federal courts. Thus in this case
the state court would remain in charge of the foreclosure;
the bankruptcy court would have exclusive control over
the receiver's receipts. An interpretation which leads to
a division of authority so fraught with conflict will not be
readily implied.
5 We do not reach the question, reserved in Duparquet Huot &
Moneuse Co. v. Evans, 297 U. S. 216, 224, whether the appointment
of a foreclosure receiver might be an act of bankruptcy under § 3 (a)
(5). See In re 211 East Delaware Place Bldg. Corp., 14 F. Supp. 96.
It was suggested in Randolph v. Scruggs, 190 U. S. 533, 536,- that
bankruptcy superseded a general assignment for the benefit of creditors
made within the four months period since the making of the assignment
was an act of bankruptcy. And see-Remington, op. cit., §-2071.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

It is argued, however, that the provision in § 2 (a) (21)
concerning proceedings under chapters X and XII indicates a purpose to include the type of receiver we have
here. It seems clear that such a foreclosure receiver is
included within § 2 (a) (21) where proceedings under Ch.
X have supervened. But the fact that a foreclosure receiver is included for one purpose does not necessarily
mean that he is included for another. Plans of reorganization under Ch. X may (§ 216) and commonly do affect
the rights of mortgagees. Hence § 148 provides that an
order approving a petition under Ch. X operates to stay
a pending mortgage foreclosure or other proceeding to enforce a lien against the debtor's property.' And § 256
and § 257 provide that the trustee (or debtor) acquires
all rights in, and the right to immediate possession of,
the property of the debtor under the control of a receiver
or trustee appointed in a prior proceeding in any federal
or state court. That is to say, a Ch.X proceeding supersedes a pending mortgage foreclosure. We thus find § 2
(a) (21) performing the same function when applied to
Ch. X proceedings 7 as it does when applied to ordinary
bankruptcy. We conclude that the Circuit Court of Appeals was correct in reading the word "receivers" distributively. Such a construction fits the statutory scheme as
a whole. The other interpretation results in a distortion
which the language of § 2 (a) (21) makes unnecessary and
which its history does not warrant.
Little need be said about § 69d. It must be read in connection with § 2 (a) (21). The legislative history suggests that it, too, was designed to apply only where bankruptcy superseded the prior proceedings. H. Rep. No.
1409, supra,p. 12. As stated by the draftsman, "It makes
6

And unlike proceedings under § 77B (Duparquet Huot & Moneuse
Co. v. Evans, 297 U. S. 216), a mortgage foreclosure is adequate under
certain conditions for a creditor's petition under Ch.X. § 131 (4).
7Similar considerations are applicable to real property arrangements under Ch.XII. §§ 406 (1), 411, 416, 428.

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 523
515

Syllabus.

clear and certain the exclusive and paramount jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court over property dealt with in
a prior equity receivership or like proceeding which is
superseded by a bankruptcy proceeding." Weinstein, op.
cit., p. 154. And see 4 Collier, op. cit., pp. 879-882.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.

GROUP OF INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS ET AL. V.
CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE, ST. PAUL & PACIFIC
RAILROAD CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 11. Argued October 14, 15, 1942.-Decided March 15, 1943.
Upon review of a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed an order of the District Court approving a plan, certified to it
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, for reorganization of the
Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul & Pacific Railroad Company 'under
§ 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, held:
1. The Commission's conclusion that the equity of holders of the
debtor's preferred and common stock was without value, and that
* Together with No. 12, Group of Institutional Investors et al. v.
Union Trust Co. et al.; No. 13, Group of InstitutionalInvestors et al.
v. Abrams et al.; No. 14, Group of Institutional Investors et al. v.
Orton et al.; No. 15, Group of InstitutionalInvestors et al. v. Guaranty
Trust Co. of New York et al.; No. 16, Group of InstitutionalInvestors
et al. v. Chicago, Terre Haute & Southeastern Ry. Co. et al.; No. 17,
Group of Institutional Investors et al. v. United States Trust Co. of
New York, Trustee; No. 18, Group of InstitutionalInvestors et al. v.
Trustees of Princeton University et al.; No. 193 Group of Institutional
Investors et al. v. Glines et al.; and No. 32, Reconstruction Finance
Corporation v. Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul & Pacific Railroad Co.
et al., also on writs of certiorari, 316 U. S. 659, to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.

