OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

on that basis. H. Rep. No. 1283, supra, p. 3; S. Rep. No.
1336, supra, p. 4. Having that power Congress could
fix fees for attorneys and others on a per diem or other
basis. Cf. Hines v. Lowrey, 305 U. S. 85. In lieu of any
such rigid system of control it could bring to its aid the
services of the Commission and vest in it complete authority over all allowances. That clearly would not involve any question of delegation of judicial power. See
Sunshine Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381, 400. Hence,
when Congress granted the Commission exclusive authority over the maximum amount of allowances, it did
not give § 77 a constitutional infirmity.
MR.

JUSTICE

BLACK joins in this opinion.

SMITH v. SHAUGHNESSY, COLLECTOR OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 429.

Argued January 14, 1943.-Decided February 15, 1943.

1. Under an irrevocable transfer of property in trust, the income was
to be paid to the grantor's wife for life; upon her death, the corpus
was to go to the grantor if living or, if not, to the wife's heirs.
Concededly, the wife's life interest was subject to the federal gift
tax. Held that the remainder interest, less the value of the grantor's
reversionary interest, was subject to the gift tax imposed by §§ 501,
506 of the Revenue Act of 1932. P. 180.
2. The gift tax under the Revenue Act of 1932 amounts in some instances to a security for the payment eventually of the federal
estate tax; it is in no sense double taxation. P. 179.
3. The language of the provision of the Revenue Act of 1932 imposing
a tax upon every transfer of property by gift, whether the property
is "real or personal, tangible or intangible," is broad enough to include a contingent remainder; and the provisions of the Treasury
regulations for application of the tax to, and determination of the

SMITH v. SHAUGHNESSY.
176

Opinion of the Court.

value of, "a remainder ... subject to an outstanding life estate" are

consistent with the purpose of the Act. P. 180.
4. In a case such as this, where the grantor has neither the form nor
substance of control over the trust property, and never will have
unless he outlives his wife, it must be concluded that the grantor has
relinquished economic control over the trust property and that the
gift was complete except for the value of his reversionary interest.
P. 181.
128 F. 2d 742, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

317 U. S. 617, to review the reversal of a

judgment, 40 F. Supp. 19, ordering a refund of a federal
gift tax.
Mr. Ellsworth C. Alvord, with whom Messrs. Floyd F.
Toomey, John H. Hughes, and Willis H. Michell were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs. Sewall
Key, J. Louis Monarch, and L. W. Post were on the brief,
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question here is the extent of the petitioner's
liability for a tax under §§ 501, 506 of the Revenue Act of
1932, 47 Stat. 169, which imposes a tax upon every transfer
of property by gift, "whether the transfer is in trust or
otherwise, whether the gift is direct or indirect, and
whether the property is real or personal, tangible or
intangible; ... "
The petitioner, age 72, made an irrevocable transfer in
trust of 3,000 shares of stock worth $571,000. The trust
income was payable to his wife, age 44, for life; upon her
death, the stock was to be returned to the petitioner, if he
was living; if he was not living, it was to go to such persons
as his wife might designate by will, or in default of a will

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

by her, to her intestate successors under applicable New
York law. The petitioner, under protest, paid a gift tax
of $71,674.22, assessed on the total value of the trust principal, and brought suit for refund in the district court.
Holding that the petitioner had, within the meaning of
the Act, executed a completed gift of a life estate to his
wife, the court sustained the Commissioner's assessment
on $322,423, the determined value of her life interest; but
the remainder was held not to be completely transferred
and hence not subject to the gift tax. 40 F. Supp. 19.
The government appealed and the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, ordering dismissal of the petitioner's complaint on the authority of its previous decision in Herzog
v. Commissioner, 116 F. 2d 591. We granted certiorari
because of alleged conflict with our decisions in Helvering
v. Hallock, 309 U. S. 106, and Sanford v. Commissioner,
308 U. S. 39. In these decisions, and in Burnet v. Guggenheim, 288 U. S. 280, we have considered the problems
raised here in some detail, and it will therefore be unnecessary to make any elaborate re-survey of the law.
Three interests are involved here: the life estate, the
remainder, and the reversion. The taxpayer concedes
that the life estate is subject to the gift tax. The government concedes that the right of reversion to the donor in
case he outlives his wife is an interest having value which
can be calculated by an actuarial device, and that it is
immune from the gift tax. The controversy, then, reduces itself to the question of the taxability of the
remainder.
The taxpayer's principal argument here is that under
our decision in the Hallock case, the value of the remainder
will be included in the grantor's gross estate for estate
tax purposes; and that in the Sanford case we intimated a
general policy against allowing the same property to be
taxed both as an estate and as a gift.

SMITH v. SHAUGHNESSY.
176

Opinion of the Court.

This view, we think, misunderstands our position in the
Sanford case. As we said there, the gift and estate tax
laws are closely related and the gift tax serves to supplement the estate tax." We said that the taxes are not
"always mutually exclusive," and called attention to § 322
of the 1924 Act there involved (reenacted with amendments in §801 of the 1932 Act) which charts the course for
granting credits on estate taxes by reason of previous payment of gift taxes on the same property. The scope of
that provision we need not now determine. It is sufficient
to note here that Congress plainly pointed out that "some"
of the "total gifts subject to gift taxes ...

may be in-

cluded for estate tax purposes and some not." House
Report No. 708, 72d Cong., 1st Sess., p. 45. Under the
statute the gift tax amounts in some instances to a security,
a form of down-payment on the estate tax which secures
the eventual payment of the latter; it is in no sense double
taxation as the taxpayer suggests.
We conclude that under the present statute, Congress
has provided as its plan for integrating the estate and
gift taxes this system of secured payment on gifts which
will later be subject to the estate tax.2
I The gift tax was passed not only to prevent estate tax avoidance,
but also to prevent income tax avoidance through reducing yearly
income and thereby escaping the effect of progressive surtax rates.
House Report No. 708, 72d Cong., 1st Sess., p. 28; Brandeis, J., dissenting in Untermyer v. Anderson, 276 U. S. 440, 450; Stone, J.,
dissenting in Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U. S. 312, 333.
2It has been suggested that the congressional plan relating the
estate and gift taxes may still be incomplete. See e. g., Griswold,
A Plan for the Coordination of the Income, Estate, and Gift Tax
Provisions etc., 56 Harv. L. Rev. 337; Magill, The Federal Gift
Tax, 40 Col. L. Rev. 773, 792; Kauper, The Revenue Act of 1942:
Estate and Gift Tax Amendments, 41 Mich. L. Rev. 369, 388; and
see Commissioner v. Prouty, 115 F. 2d 331, 337; Higgins v.
Commissioner, 129 F. 2d 237, 239.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Unencumbered by any notion of policy against subjecting this transaction to both estate and gift taxes, we turn
to the basic question of whether there was a gift of the
remainder. The government argues that for gift tax purposes the taxpayer has abandoned control of the remainder
and that it is therefore taxable, while the taxpayer contends that no realistic value can be placed on the contingent remainder and that it therefore should not be classed
as a gift.
We cannot accept any suggestion that the complexity of
a property interest created by a trust can serve to defeat
a tax. For many years Congress has sought vigorously to
close tax loopholes against ingenious trust instruments.'
Even though these concepts of property and value may
be slippery and elusive they can not escape taxation so
long as they are used in the world of business. The language of the gift tax statute, "property . . . real or personal, tangible or intangible," is broad enough to include
property, however conceptual or contingent. And lest
there be any doubt as to the amplitude of their purpose,
the Senate and House Committees, reporting the bill,
spelled out their meaning as follows:
"The terms 'property,' 'transfer,' 'gift,' and 'indirectly'
[in § 501] are used in the broadest and most comprehensive sense; the term 'property' reaching every species of
right or interest protected by law and having an exchangeable value." "
The Treasury regulations, which we think carry out the
Act's purpose, made specific provisions for application of
112 Paul, Federal Estate & Gift Taxation, Chap. 17; Schuyler, Powers
of Appointment and Especially Special Powers: The Estate Taxpayer's Last Stand, 33 111. L. Rev. 771; Leaphart, The Use of the
Trust to Escape the Imposition of Federal Income & Estate Taxes,

15 Corn. L. Q.587.
4Senate Report No. 665, 72d Cong., 1st Sess., p. 39; House Report
No. 708, supra, p. 27.

SMITH v. SHAUGHNESSY.
176

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

the tax to, and determination of the value of, "a remainder
.. . subject to an outstanding life estate." 5
The essence of a gift by trust is the abandonment of
control over the property put in trust. The separable
interests transferred are not gifts to the extent that power
remains to revoke the trust or recapture the property represented by any of them, Burnet v. Guggenheim, supra, or
to modify the terms of the arrangement so as to make other
disposition of the property, Sanford v. Commissioner,
supra. In the Sanford case the grantor could, by modification of the trust, extinguish the donee's interest at any
instant he chose. In cases such as this, where the grantor
has neither the form nor substance of control and never will
have unless he outlives his wife, we must conclude that he
has lost all "economic control" and that the gift is complete
except for the value of his reversionary interest.'
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is affirmed
with leave to the petitioner to apply for modification of its
mandate in order that the value of the petitioner's reversionary interest may be determined and excluded.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

I dissent. I am of opinion that, except for the life estate in the wife, the gift qua the donor was incomplete
and not within the sweep of §§ 501 and 506. A contrary
conclusion might well be reached were it not for Helvering
5 Treas. Regulations 79 (1936 Ed.), Arts. 2, 3, 17, 19. Cf. Commissioner v. Marshall, 125 F. 2d 943, 945.
0 The conclusion reached here is in accord with that of the several
Circuit Courts of Appeals which have considered the problem: Commissioner v. Marshall, 125 F. 2d 943 (C. C. A. 2d); Commissioner v.
Beck's Estate, 129 F. 2d 243 (C. C. A. 2d); Commissioner v. McLean,
127 F. 2d 942 (C. C. A. 5th); Helvering v. Robinette, 129 F. 2d 832
(C. C. A. 3d), affirmed, post, p. 184; Hughes v. Commissioner, 104
F. 2d 144 (C. C. A. 9th); and see the cases cited in Note 2, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
RoBIss,

J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

v. Hallock, 309 U. S. 106. But the decisions in Burnet v.
Guggenheim, 288 U. S. 280, and Sanford v. Commissioner,
308 U. S. 39, to which the court adheres, require a reversal
in view of the ruling in the Hallock case.
The first of the two cases ruled that a transfer in trust,
whereby the grantor reserved a power of revocation, was
not subject to a gift tax, but became so upon the renunciation of the power. The second held that where the grantor
reserved a power to change the beneficiaries, but none to
revoke or to make himself a beneficiary, the transfer was
incomplete and not subject to gift tax. At the same term,
in Porter v. Commissioner, 288 U. S. 436, the court held
that where a decedent had given property inter vivos in
trust, reserving a power to change the beneficiaries but no
power to revoke or revest the property in himself, the
transfer was incomplete until the termination of the reserved power by the donor's death and hence the corpus
was subject to the estate tax.
When these cases were decided, the law, as announced
by this court, was that where, in a complete and final transfer inter vivos, a grantor provided that, in a specified contingency, the corpus should pass to him, if living, but, if
he should be dead, then to others, the gift was complete
when made, he retained nothing which passed from him at
his death, prior to the happening of the contingency, and
that no part of the property given was includible in his
gross estate for estate tax. McCormick v. Burnet, 283
U. S. 784; Helvering v. St. Louis Union Trust Co., 296
U. S. 39; Becker v. St. Louis Union Trust Co., 296 U. S.
48. So long as this was the law the transfer might properly be the subject of a gift tax for the gift was, as respects
the donor, complete when made.
In 1940 these decisions were overruled and it was held
that such a transfer was so incomplete when made, and
the grantor retained such an interest, that the cessation
of that interest at death furnished the occasion for im-

SMITH v. SHAUGHNESSY.
176

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

posing an estate tax. Thus the situation here presented
was placed in the same category as those where the
grantor had reserved a power to revoke or a power to
change beneficiaries. By analogy to the Guggenheim and
Sanford cases, I suppose the gift would have become complete if the donor had, in his life, relinquished or conveyed
the contingent estate reserved to him.
In the light of this history-, the Sanford case requires a
holding that the gifts in remainder, after the life estate,
create no gift tax liability. The reasoning of that decision, the authorities, and the legislative history relied
upon, are all at war with the result in this case. There
is no need to quote what was there said. A reading of the
decision will demonstrate that, if the principles there announced are here observed, the gifts in question are incomplete and cannot be the subject of the gift tax.
It will not square with logic to say that where the donor
reserves the right to change beneficiaries, and so delays
completion of the gift until his death or prior relinquishment of the right, the gift is incomplete, but where he
reserves- a contingent interest to himself the reverse is
true,-particularly so, if the criterion of estate tax liability
is important to the decision of the question, as the Sanford
case affirms.
The question is not whether a gift which includes vested
and contingent future interests in others than the donor
is taxable as an entirety when made, but whether a reservation of such an interest in the donor negatives a completion of the gift until such time as that interest is
relinquished.
All that is said in the Sanford case about the difficulties
of administration and probable inequities of a contrary
decision there, applies here with greater force. Indeed a
system of taxation which requires valuation of the donor's
retained interest, in the light of the contingencies involved,
and calculation of the value of the subsequent remainders
513236-43-vol. 318-16

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

by resort to higher mathematics beyond the ken of the
taxpayer, exhibits the artificiality of the Government's
application of the Act. This is well illustrated in the
companion cases of Robinette and Paumgarten, infra,
p. 184. Such results argue strongly against the construction which the court adopts.
ROBINETTE v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 499.

Argued January 14, 1943.-Decided February 15, 1943.

A woman, contemplating marriage, created an irrevocable trust of
property, under which she was to receive the income during her
life; upon her death, her mother and stepfather were to have a
life interest in the income; the remainder was to go to her issue
upon their reaching the age of 21, and, in default of issue, then to
whomever the last surviving life tenant should appoint by will. Her
mother created a similar trust, reserving a life interest to herself and
her husband, with a second life interest to the daughter, and remainder to the daughter's issue. Concededly, the secondary life
interests were subject to the federal gift tax. Held:
1. The remainders (after the life interests) were taxable gifts
under the Revenue Act of 1932. Smith v. Shaughnessy, ante, p. 176
P. 186.
2. The fact that on the date of the creation of the trust there were
in existence no eligible remaindermen does not defeat the gift tax.
P. 186.
3. The transfers in this case can not be regarded as supported
by "full consideration in money or money's worth" within the meaning of § 503 of the Act; nor as "in the ordinary course of business"
within the meaning of Art. 8 of Treasury Regulations 79. P. 187.
4. The value of the reversionary interests of the grantors in this
case, being incapable of ascertainment by recognized actuarial meth*Together with No. 500, Paumgartenv. Helvering, Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, also on writ of certiorari, 317 U. S. 620, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.

