FISHER CO. v. WITMARK & SONS.
629

Opinion of the Court.

In my opinion the petitioners state a cause of action
with respect to these mileage claims, and the judgment of
the Court of Claims should accordingly be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER agrees with these views.

FRED FISHER MUSIC CO. ET AL. V. M. WITMARK
& SONS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 327.

Argued January 14, 15, 1943.--Decided April 5, 1943.

Under the Copyright Act of 1909, as amended, an author's right to obtain a renewal and extension of his copyright is assignable by him
by an agreement made before the expiration of the original copyright
term. P. 656.
125 F. 2d 949, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 611, to review the affirmance of
a decree of the District Court, 38 F. Supp. 72, granting an
interlocutory injunction in a case of alleged copyright
infringement.

Mr. John Schulman, with whom Mr. Arthur Garfield
Hays was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Robert W. Perkins, with whom Mr. Stuart H.
Aarons was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents a question never settled before, even
though it concerns legislation having a history of more
than two hundred years. The question itself can be
stated very simply. Under § 23 of the Copyright Act of

644

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

1909, 35 Stat. 1075, as amended,1 a copyright in a musical
composition lasts for twenty-eight years from the date of
its first publication, and the author can renew the copyright, if he is still living, for a further term of twentyeight years by filing an application for renewal within a
year before the expiration of the first twenty-eight year
period. Section 42 of the Act provides that a copyright
1 The

relevant provisions of the Copyright Act read as follows:

SEC. 23. That the copyright secured by this Act shall endure for
twenty-eight years from the date of first publication, whether the
copyrighted work bears the author's true name or is published anonymously or under an assumed name: Provided, That in the case of any
posthumous work or of any periodical, cyclopedic, or other composite
work upon which the copyright was originally secured by the proprietor thereof, or of any work copyrighted by a corporate body
(otherwise than as assignee or licensee of the individual author) or
by an employer for whom such work is made for hire, the proprietor
of such copyright shall be entitled to a renewal and extension of the
cdpyright in such work for the further term of twenty-eight years
when application for such renewal and extension shall have been made
to the copyright office and duly registered therein within one year
prior to the expiration of the original term of copyright: And provided
further, That in the case of any other copyrighted work, including a
contribution by an individual author to a periodical or to a cyclopedic
or other composite work, the author of such work, if still living, or
the widow, widower, or children of the author, if the author be not
living, or if such author, widow, widower, or children be not living,
then the author's executors, or in the absence of a will, his next of kin
shall be entitled to a renewal and extension of the copyright in such
work for a further term of twenty-eight years when application for
such renewal and extension shall have been made to the copyright office
and duly registered therein within one year prior to the expiration
of the original term of copyright: And provided further, That in default of the registration of such application for renewal and extension,
the copyright in any work shall determine at the expiration of twentyeight years from first publication.
SEC. 42. That copyright secured under this or previous Acts of the
United States may be assigned, granted, or mortgaged by an instrument in writing signed by the proprietor of the copyright, or may be
bequeathed by will.

FISHER CO. v. WITMARK & SONS.
643

Opinion of the Court.

"may be assigned . . . by an instrument in writing signed
by the proprietor of the copyright . . ." Concededly,
the author can assign the original copyright and, after he
has secured it, the renewal copyright as well. The question is-does the Act prevent the author from assigning
his interest in the renewal copyright before he has secured
it?
This litigation arises from a controversy over the renewal rights in the popular song "When Irish Eyes Are
Smiling." It was written in 1912 by Ernest R. Ball,
Chauncey Olcott, and George Graff, Jr., each of whom was
under contract to a firm of music publishers, M. Witmark & Sons. Pursuant to the contracts, Witmark on
August 12, 1912, applied for and obtained the copyright
in the song. On May 19, 1917, Graff and Witmark made
a further agreement, under which, for the sum of $1,600,
Graff assigned to Witmark "all rights, title and interest"
in a number of songs, including "When Irish Eyes Are
Smiling." The contract provided for the conveyance of
"all copyrights and renewals of copyrights and the right
to secure all copyrights and renewals of copyrights in the
[songs], and any and all rights therein that I [Graff] or
my heirs, executors, administrators or next of kin may at
any time be entitled to." To that end, Witmark was
given an irrevocable power of attorney to execute in
Graff's name all documents "necessary to secure to [Witmark] the renewals and extensions of the copyrights in
said compositions and all rights therein for the terms of
such renewals and extensions." In addition, Graff agreed
that, "upon the expiration of the first term of any copyright," he would execute and deliver to Witmark "all papers necessary in order to secure to it the renewals and
extensions of all copyrights in said compositions and all
rights therein for the terms of such renewals and extensions." This agreement was duly recorded in the Copyright Office.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

On August 12, 1939, the first day of the twenty-eighth
year of the copyright in "When Irish Eyes Are Smiling,"
Witmark applied for and registered the renewal copyright in Graff's name.2 On the same day, exercising its
power of attorney under the agreement of May 19, 1917,
Witmark also assigned to itself Graff's interest in the renewal. Eleven days later, Graff himself applied for and
registered the renewal copyright in his own name; and
on October 24, 1939, he assigned his renewal interest to another music publishing firm, Fred Fisher Music Co., Inc.
Both Graff and Fisher knew of the prior registration of
the renewal by Witmark and of the latter's assignment
to itself. Relying upon the validity of the assignment
made to it on October 24, 1939, and without obtaining
permission from Witmark, Fisher published and sold
copies of "When Irish Eyes Are Smiling," representing
to the trade that it owned the renewal rights in the song.
Witmark thereupon brought this suit to enjoin these activities. The District Court granted a preliminary injunction pendente lite solely upon the ground that there
was no statutory bar against an author's assignment of
his interest in the renewal before it was secured. 38 F.
Supp. 72. The court considered no evidence and made
no findings upon the question whether equitable relief
should be denied on other grounds, such as inadequacy of
consideration and the like.3 Upon appeal to the Circuit
and Olcott were no longer living at the time, and under § 23
of the Act their interests in the renewal passed to their widows.
Witmark is also the assignee of Mrs. Olcott's interest in the renewal
copyright, and Mrs. Ball has assigned her interest to another music
publisher. The validity of neither assignment is involved in this suit.
8 In opposing the motion for a preliminary injunction, Graff submitted an affidavit stating he "was in desperate financial straits" when
he entered into the agreement of May 19, 1917. The District Court
made no findings upon and did not otherwise deal with the issue that
this allegation may raise.
2Ball

FISHER CO. v. WITMARK & SONS.
643

Opinion of the Court.

Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit under § 129 of
the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 227, permitting appeals
from interlocutory decrees, the order was affirmed. 125
F. 2d 949. The Circuit Court of Appeals limited itself,
as did the parties before it, to the question of statutory
construction, wholly apart from the particular circumstances of the case. The court expressly left open "other
contentions which the parties may wish and be entitled
to raise on the merits, including possibly claims of inadequacy of consideration." 125 F. 2d at 954. The petition for certiorari in this Court stated that the "sole question is whether . . . an agreement to assign his renewal,
made by an author in advance of the twenty-eighth year
of the original term of copyright, is valid and enforceable."
Because of the obvious importance of this question of the
proper construction of the Copyright Act, we brought the
case here. 317 U. S. 611.
Plainly, there is only one question before us-does the
Copyright Act nullify an agreement by an author, made
during the original copyright term, to assign his renewal?
The explicit words of the statute give the author an unqualified right to renew the copyright. No limitations
are placed upon the assignability of his interest in the renewal. If we look only to what the Act says, there can
be no doubt as to the answer. But each of the parties
finds support for its conclusion in the historical background of copyright legislation, and to that we must turn
to discover whether Congress meant more than it said.
Anglo-American copyright legislation begins in 1709
with the Statute of 8 Anne, c. 19. That act gave the
author and his assigns the exclusive copyright for fourteen
years from publication, and after the expiration of such
term, if the author was still living, the copyright could be
renewed for another fourteen years. The statute did not
expressly provide that the author could assign his renewal
interest during the original copyright term. But the
513236-43-vo1. 318-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

English courts held that the author's right of renewal,
although contingent upon his surviving the original fourteen-year period, could be assigned, and that if he did
survive the original term he was bound by the assignment.
Carnan v. Bowles, 2 Bro. C. C. 80; Rundell v. Murray,
Jac. 311; see Maugham, Law of Literary Property (1828)
73; Curtis on Copyright (1847) 235. Subsequent English legislation eliminated the problem by providing for
one continuous term of copyright. In 1814 the statute
was amended to provide that the author and his assigns
should have the copyright for twenty-eight years, "and
also, if the author shall be living at the end of that period,
for the residue of his natural life." 54 Geo. III, c. 156.,
In 1842 the copyright term was extended to forty-two
years or the life of the author and seven years, whichever
should prove longer. 5 & 6 Vict., c. 45; see Macgillivray,
Law of Copyright (1902) 56-57. The English law today, with minor qualifications not relevant here, gives
the author and his assigns the exclusive copyright for the
life of the author and fifty years after his death. Copyright Act of 1911, 1 & 2 Geo. V, c. 34; see Oldfield, Law
of Copyright (1912) 60-66; Robertson, Law of Copyright
(1912) 44-50; Copinger, Law of Copyright (7th ed. 1936)
78-86.
In this country, the copyright laws enacted by the original thirteen states prior to 1789 were based largely upon
the Statute of Anne. In 1783 the Continental Congress
passed a resolution calling upon the states to adopt copyright legislation for the protection of authors and publishers. The resolution recommended that copyright be
given to authors and publishers "for a certain time, not
less than fourteen years from the first publication; and
to secure to the said authors, if they shall survive the
term first mentioned, and to their executors, administrators and assigns, the copyright of such books for another
term of time not less than fourteen years." Journals of

FISHER CO. v. WITMARK & SONS.
643

Opinion of the Court.

the Continental Congress, 1774-1789 (1922), vol. xxiv,
pp. 326-27. When the resolution was adopted, laws governing copyrights were on the statute-books of at least
three states, Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Maryland.
The Connecticut and Maryland statutes substantially followed the Statute of Anne: in both states copyright was
granted for a term of fourteen years, renewable for another term of the same length if the author survived the
original term., Connecticut, Acts & Laws (Green, 1783)
617-19; Maryland, Laws (Green, 1783) c. 34. The Maryland statute employed the phraseology of the Statute of
Anne, providing simply that the privilege of renewal belonged to the author. The Connecticut statute, however, explicitly incorporated the construction made by the
English courts, and conferred the right of renewal upon
the author and "his heirs and assigns." The Massachusetts statute created a single copyright term of twenty-one
years. Massachusetts, Acts & Laws (Edes, 1783) 236.
In response to the resolution of the Congress, nine of
the ten other states enacted copyright legislation. Only
Delaware did not adopt a copyright statute. Five states
accepted the recommendation of the Congress and followed the Statute of Anne: two copyright terms of fourteen years, the second term contingent upon the author's
surviving the first. New Jersey, Acts of the General Assembly (Collins, 1783) c. 21; Pennsylvania, Laws (Bradford, 1784) c. 125; South Carolina, Acts, Ordinances and
Resolves (Miller, 1784) 49-51; Candler, Colonial Records
of Georgia (1911), vol. xix, part 2, pp. 485-89; Laws of
New York, 1786, c. 54. Four of these, like the earlier
Connecticut statute, explicitly provided that the right of
renewal could be exercised by the author's heirs and assigns, namely, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Georgia, and
New York. The four remaining states enacted statutes
providing for single terms of varying lengths, ranging
from fourteen to twenty-one years. New Hampshire,

650

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Laws (Melcher, 1789) 161-62; Rhode Island, Acts and
Resolves (Carter, 1783) 6-7; Virginia, Acts (Dunlap &
Hayes, 1785) 8-9; North Carolina, Laws 1785, c. 24.
Exercising the power granted by Article 1, § 8 of the
Constitution-"To promote the Progress of Science and
useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and
Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings
and Discoveries"-the first Congress enacted a copyright
statute, the Act of May 31, 1790, 1 Stat. 124. As might
have been expected, this Act reflected its historical antecedents. The author was given the copyright for fourteen years and "if, at the expiration of the said term, the
author or authors, or any of them, be living, and a citizen
or citizens of these United States, or resident therein, the
same exclusive right shall be continued to him or them,
his or their executors, administrators or assigns, for the
further term of fourteen years." 1 Stat. 124. In view
of the language and history of this provision, there can be
no doubt that if the present case had arisen under the Act
of 1790, there would be no statutory restriction upon the
assignability of the author's renewal interest. The petitioners contend, however, that such a limitation was introduced by subsequent legislation, particularly the
Copyright Acts of 1831 and 1909.
The Act of February 3, 1831, 4 Stat. 436, amended the
1790 Act in two important respects: the original term was
increased from fourteen to twenty-eight years, and the
renewal term, although still only fourteen years long,
could pass to the author's widow or children if he did not
survive the original term. The renewal provision, like
the Statute of Anne, did not refer to the author's "assigns." The purpose of these changes, as stated in the
report of the Committee on the Judiciary of the House
of Representatives was "chiefly to enlarge the period for
the enjoyment of copy-right, and thereby to place authors in this country more nearly upon an equality with

FISHER CO. v. WITMARK & SONS.
643

Opinion of the Court.

authors in other countries ....

In the United States,

by the existing laws, a copy-right is secured to the author,
in the first instance, for fourteen years; and if, at the end
of that period, he be living, then for fourteen years more;
but, if he be not then living, the copy-right is determined,
although, by the very event of the death of the author,
his family stand in more need of the only means of subsistence ordinarily left to them." Register of Debates,
vol. 7, appendix CXiX.

Plainly, therefore, the Copyright Act of 1831 merely
enlarged the benefits of the copyright; it extended the
length of the original term and gave the author's widow
and children that which theretofore they did not possess,
namely, the right of renewal to which the author would
have been entitled if he had survived the original term.
The petitioners attach much significance to a sentence
appearing in the report of the committee: "The question
is, whether the author or the bookseller should receive
the reward." Ibid. The meaning of this sentence, read
in its context, is quite clear. By providing that, if the
author should not survive the original term, his renewal
interest should, instead of falling into the public domain,
pass to his widow and children, Congress was of course
preferring the author to the bookseller. ,But neither expressly nor impliedly did the Act of 1831 impose any restraints upon the right of the author himself to assign his
contingent interest in the renewal. That the Act contained no such limitation was accepted without question
both by the courts, see Pierpont v. Fowle, 19 Fed. Cas.
652 (C. C. Mass. 1846), and Paige v. Banks, 13 Wall.
608, with which compare White-Smith Music Pub. Co. v.
Goff, 187 F. 247, 250-53, and by commentators, see Curtis
on Copyright (1847) 235; 2 Morgan, Law of Literature
(1875) 229-30; Spalding, Law of Copyright (1878) 111;
Drone on Copyright (1879) 326-32; Bowker on Copyright (1886) 20, 34; 2 Kent's Commentaries (12th ed.

652

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

1873) 510; Solberg, Copyright Protection and Statutory
Formalities (1904) 24. Representative Ellsworth, 4 who
submitted the committee report on the bill that became
the Copyright Act of 1831, himself stated unequivocally
that an agreement to assign the renewal was binding
upon the author. See Ellsworth, Copy-Right Manual
(1862) 29.
We come, finally, to the Copyright Act of March 4, 1909,
35 Stat. 1075, which, except for some minor amendments
not relevant here, is the statute in effect at the present
time. In December, 1905, President Theodore Roosevelt urged the Congress to undertake a revision of the
copyright laws. H. Doc. 1, 59th Cong., 1st Sess., p. LII.
In response to this message the Librarian of Congress,
under whose authority the Copyright Office functions, invited persons interested in copyright legislation to attend
a conference for the purpose of devising a satisfactory
measure. Several conferences were held in 1905 and
1906, resulting in a bill which was introduced in the House
and Senate by the chairman of the Committee on Patents
in each body. This bill (H. R. 19853 and S. 6330, 59th
Cong., 1st Sess.) provided, in the case of books and musical compositions, for a single copyright term lasting for
the life of the author and for fifty years thereafter. Joint
hearings by the House and Senate Committees were held
on this bill, but no action was taken by the Fifty-ninth
Congress. At the next session of Congress, this and other
bills to revise the copyright laws were again introduced.
Extensive public hearings were held. The result of this
elaborate legislative consideration of the problem of copyright was a bill (H. R. 28192; S.9440) which became the
Copyright Act of 1909. As stated in the report of the
House committee, this bill "differs in many respects from
4William Wolcott Ellsworth, the son of Oliver Ellsworth, third Chief
Justice of the United States. See Biographical Directory of the
American Congress, 1774-1927 (1928) 943.

FISHER CO. v. WITMARK & SONS.
643

Opinion of the Court.

any of the bills previously introduced. Your committee believes that in all its essential features it fairly meets
and solves the difficult problems with which the committee had to deal . . ." H. Rep. 2222, 60th Cong., 2d
Sess., p. 4. Under the bill, copyright was given for
twenty-eight years, with a renewal period of the same
duration. The report of the House committee indicates
the reasons for this provision. This section of the report, to which much importance has been attached by the
judges of the court below and by the parties, must be
read in the light of the specific problem with which the
Congress was presented: should there be one long term,
as was provided for in the bill resulting from the conferences held by the Librarian of Congress, or should there be
two shorter terms? The House and Senate committees
chose the latter alternative. They were aware that an
assignment by the author of his "copyright" in general
terms did not include conveyance of his renewal interest.
See Pierpont v. Fowle, 19 Fed. Cas. 652 (C. C. Mass.
1846); 2 Morgan, Law of Literature (1875) 229-30; Macgillivray, Law of Copyright (1902) 267. During the
hearings of the Joint Committee, Representative Currier
the chairman of the House committee, referred to the
difficulties encountered by Mark Twain:
"Mr. Clemens told me that he sold the copyright for
Innocents Abroad for a very small sum, and he got very
little out of the Innocents Abroad until the twenty-eightyear period expired, and then his contract did not cover
the renewal period, and in the fourteen years of the renewal period he was able to get out of it all of the profits."
(Hearings before the Committees on Patents of the Senate and House of Representatives on Pending Bills to
Amend and Consolidate the Acts respecting Copyright,
60th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 20.)
By providing for two copyright terms, each of relatively short duration, Congress enabled the author to sell

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

his "copyright" without losing his renewal interest. If
the author's copyright extended over a single, longer term,
his sale of the "copyright" would terminate his entire
interest. That this is the basic consideration of policy
underlying the renewal provision of the Copyright Act
of 1909 clearly appears from the report of the House committee which submitted the legislation (the Senate committee adopted the report of the House committee, see
Sen. Rep. 1108, 60th Cong., 2d Sess.):
"Section 23 deals with the term of the copyright.
Under existing law the copyright term is twenty-eight
years, with the right of renewal by the author, or by the
author's widow or children if he be dead, for a further
term of fourteen years. The act of 1790 provided for an
original term of fourteen years, with the right of renewal
for fourteen years. The act of 1831 extended the term
to its present length. It was urged before the committee that it would be better to have a single term without
any right of renewal, and a term of life and fifty years
was suggested. Your committee, after full consideration,
decided that it was distinctly to the advantage of the author to preserve the renewal period. It not infrequently
happens that the author sells his copyright outright to
a publisher for a comparatively small sum. If the work
proves to be a great success and lives beyond the term
of twenty-eight years, your committee felt that it should
be the exclusive right of the author to take the renewal
term, and the law should be framed as is the existing law
[italics ours], so that he could not be deprived of that
right.
"The present term of twenty-eight years, with the right
of renewal for fourteen years, in many cases is insufficient.
The terms, taken together, ought to be long enough to
give the author the exclusive right to his work for such
a period that there would be no probability of its being
taken away from him in his old age, when, perhaps, he

FISHER CO. v. WITMARK & SONS.
643

Opinion of the Court.

needs it the most. A very small percentage of the copyrights are ever renewed. All use of them ceases in most
cases long before the expiration of twenty-eight years.
In the comparatively few cases where the work survives
the original term the author ought to be given an adequate renewal term. In the exceptional case of a brilliant work of literature, art, or musical composition it
continues to have a value for a long period, but this value
is dependent upon the merit of the composition. Just in
proportion as the composition is meritorious and deserving will it continue to be profitable, provided the copyright is extended so long; and it is believed that in all
such cases where the merit is very high this term is certainly not too long.
"Your committee do not favor and the bill does not provide for any extension of the original term of twenty-eight
years, but it does provide for an extension of the renewal
term from fourteen years to twenty-eight years; and it
makes some change in existing law as to those who may
apply for the renewal. Instead of confining the right of
renewal to the author, if still living, or to the widow or
children of the author, if he be dead, we provide that the
author of such work, if still living, may apply for the renewal, or the widow, widower, or children of the author,
if the author be not living, or if such author, widow, widower, or children be not living, then the author's executors, or, in the absence of a will, his next of kin. It was
not the intention to permit the administrator to apply
for the renewal, but to permit the author who had no wife
or children to bequeath by will the right to apply for the
renewal." (H. Rep. 2222, 60th Cong., 2d Sess., pp.
14-15.)
The report cannot be tortured, by reading it without
regard to the circumstances in which it was written, into
an expression of a legislative purpose to nullify agreements by authors to assign their renewal interests. If

656

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Congress, speaking through its responsible members, had
any intention of altering what theretofore had not been
questioned, namely, that there were no statutory restraints upon the assignment by authors of their renewal
rights, it is almost certain that such purpose would have
been manifested. The legislative materials reveal no
such intention.
We agree with the court below, therefore, that neither
the language nor the history of the Copyright Act of 1909
lend support to the conclusion that the "existing law"
prior to 1909, under which authors were free to assign
their renewal interests if they were so disposed, was intended to be altered. We agree, also, that there are no
compelling considerations of policy which could justify
reading into the Act a construction so at variance with
its history. The policy of the copyright law, we are told,
is to protect the author-if need be, from himself-and a
construction under which the author is powerless to assign his renewal interest furthers this policy. We are
asked to recognize that authors are congenitally irresponsible, that frequently they are so sorely pressed for funds
that they are willing to sell their work for a mere pittance,
and therefore assignments made by them should not be
upheld. It is important that we distinguish between
two problems implied in these situations: whether, despite the contrary direction given to this legislation by the
momentum of history, we are to impute to Congress the
enactment of an absolute statutory bar against assignments of authors' renewal interests, and secondly,
whether, although there be no such statutory bar, a particular assignment should be denied enforcement by the
courts because it was made under oppressive circumstances. The first question alone is presented here,, and
we make no intimations upon the other. It is one thing
to hold that the courts should not make themselves instruments of injustice by lending their aid to the enforce-

FISHER CO. v. WITMARK & SONS.
643

Opinion of the Court.

ment of an agreement where the author was under such
coercion of circumstances that enforcement would be unconscionable. Cf. Union Pacific R. Co. v. Public Service
Comm'n, 248 U. S. 67, 70; Lonergan v. Buford, 148 U. S.
581, 589-91; Snyder v. Rosenbaum, 215 U. S. 261, 265-66;
Post v. Jones, 19 How. 150, 160; The Elfrida, 172 U. S.
186, 193-94. It is quite another matter' to hold, as we
are asked in this case, that regardless of the circumstances
surrounding a particular assignment, no agreements by
authors to assign their renewal interests are binding.
It is not for courts to judge whether the interests of authors clearly lie upon one side of this question rather than
the other. If an author cannot make an effective assignment of his renewal, it may be worthless to him when he
is most in need. Nobody would pay an author for something he cannot sell. We cannot draw a principle of law
from the familiar stories of garret-poverty of some men of
literary genius. Even if we could do so, we cannot say
that such men would regard with favor a rule of law preventing them from realizing on their assets when they
are most in need of funds. Nor can we be unmindful of
the fact that authors have themselves devised means of
safeguarding their interests. We do not have such assured knowledge about authorship, and particularly about
song writing, or the psychology of gifted writers and composers, as to justify us as judges in importing into Congressional legislation a denial to authors of the freedom
to dispose of their property possessed by others. While
authors may have habits making for intermittent want,
they may have no less a spirit of independence which
would resent treatment of them as wards under guardianship of the law.
We conclude, therefore, that the Copyright Act of 1909
does not nullify agreements by authors to assign their
renewal interests. We are fortified in this conclusion by

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

reference to the actual practices of authors and publishers with respect to assignments of renewals, as disclosed
by the records of the Copyright Office. Since the enactment of the Copyright Act of 1870, 16 Stat. 198, 213, assignments of copyrights must be recorded in the office
of the Register of Copyrights. The records of the Copyright Office, we are advised, show that during the period
from July, 1870, to July, 1871, the first period in which
assignments were recorded in the Office, 223 assignments
were registered. Of these 14 were assignments of renewal
interests. Similarly, during the first six months of 1909,
immediately preceding the enactment of the Copyright
Act of that year, 304 assignments were recorded, and of
these 62 were assignments of renewal interests. In the
six-month period following the enactment of the Copyright Act of 1909, there was no significant change: 404
assignments, of which 68 were transfers of renewals.
And, to round out the picture, in the most recent complete volume of records (covering the period from January 27, 1943, to February 12, 1943), 135 assignments were
recorded, and of these 29 were assignments of renewals.
Many assignments have thus been entered into in good
faith upon the assumption that they were valid and
enforceable..
In addition to all other books and pamphlets relevant
to our problem, we have consulted all of the twenty treatises on the American law of copyright available at the
Library of Congress. Eight of these state, without qualification, that an author can effectively agree to assign
his renewal interest before it has been secured; 5 two state
1 Curtis on Copyright (1847) 235; Drone on Copyright (1879)
326-32; Howell, Copyright Law (1942) 108; 2 Morgan, Law of Literature (1875) 229-30; Spalding, Law of Copyright (1878) 111;
Macgillivray, Law of Copyright (1902) 266-67; Wittenberg, Protection and Marketing of Literary Property (1937) 45; Ladas, International Protetion of Literary and Artistic Property (1938) 772-73.

FISHER CO. v. WITMARK & SONS.
643

Dissent.

the rule with some reservations; 6 ten are either silent or
ambiguous." And the forms of assignment of copyright
in treatises and standard form-books generally contain a
provision designed to transfer the renewal interest.8
The available evidence indicates, therefore, that renewal interests of authors have been regarded as assignable both before and after the Copyright Act of 1909.
To hold at this late date that, as a matter of law, such interests are not assignable would be to reject all relevant
aids to construction.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

took no part in the considera-

tion or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, and MR.
JUSTICE MURPHY conclude that the analysis of the lan-

guage and history of the copyright law in the dissenting

opinion of Judge Frank in the court below, 125 F. 2d
949, 954, demonstrates a Congressional purpose to re6

DeWolf, Outline of Copyright Law (1925) 65-66; Weil, American

Copyright Law (1917) 365-66.
7Amdur,
Copyright Law and Practice (1936) 540-41; Frohlich
and Schwartz, Law of Motion Pictures (1918) 548-49; Marchetti,
Law of Stage, Screen, and Radio (1936) 67; Bowker, CopyrightIts History and Its Law (1912) 117, 438; Bump, Law of Patents,
Trade-marks, Labels, and Copyrights (2d ed. 1884); Elfreth, Patents, Copyrights, and Trade-marks (1913); Graham, Patents, Trademarks and Copyrights (2d ed. 1921); Law, Copyright and Patent
Laws of the United States, 1790-1870 (3d ed. 1870); Copinger, Law
of Copyright (7th ed. 1936); Shafter, Musical Copyright (2d ed.
1939) 174.
S Wittenberg, Protection and Marketing of Literary Property (1937)
195, 261; Shafter, Musical Copyright (2d ed. 1939) 577; Gordon, Annotated Forms of Agreement (1932) 32; 6 Winslow, Forms of Pleading
and Practice (3d ed. 1934) § 8267, pp. 501-02; Birdseye, Encyclopedia
of General Business and Legal Forms (1924) 280-81; Amdur, Copyright Law and Practice (1936) 836; Church, Legal and Business Forms
(2d ed. 1925) 344.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

serve the renewal privilege for the personal benefit of
authors and their families. They believe the judgment
below should be reversed.
DE ZON v. AMERICAN PRESIDENT LINES, LTD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 436.

Argued February 4, 1943.-Decided April 5, 1943.

1. A seaman who, in the course of his employment, suffers physical
injury due to the neglect or incompetence of the ship's doctor in
treating his illness has a right of action against the shipowner under
the Jones Act. P. 668.
2. To such an action it is no defense that the shipowner used due care
in selecting the ship's doctor. P. 664.
3. In this case, involving the right of a seaman to recover for injury
to and for the loss of an eye, alleged to have resulted from negligence
of the ship's doctor in his diagnosis, or in his failure to send the seaman to a hospital at a port of call, there was not sufficient evidence of negligence to require submission to the jury. P. 671.
129 F. 2d 404, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 617, to review a judgment affirming a judgment on a directed verdict in an action for damages for personal injuries brought by a seaman against
his employer, the above-named steamship company.

Mr. HerbertResner for petitioner.
Mr. Edward F. Treadwell, with whom Mr. Reginald S.
Laughlin was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner, a seaman, brought an action at law under
the Jones Act ' against the respondent shipowner. He
'41 Stat. 1007,46 U. S. C. § 688.

