OVERSTREET v. NORTH SHORE CORP.

125

Statement of the Case.

120

the judgment is reversed and the cause remanded with instructions to determine whether respondent is concluded
by the findings of the contracting officer, and, if not, for
a finding by the court whether the 183 days of high water
or any part of that time were in fact foreseeable.
Reversed.
OVERSTREET ET AL. v. NORTH SHORE
CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 284.

Argued January 11, 1943.-Decided February 1, 1943.

1. The Fair Labor Standards Act is applicable to employees who are
engaged in interstate commerce, but not to those whose activities
merely affect interstate commerce. P. 128.
2. The Fair Labor Standards Act is applicable to employees (of a
private corporation) who are engaged in the operation and maintenance of a drawbridge which is part of a toll road used extensively
by persons and vehicles traveling in interstate commerce, and which
spans an intercoastal waterway used in interstate commerce. P. 130.
So held as to one employee who attended to the raising and lowering of the bridge; another who was engaged in the maintenance and
repair of the bridge; and a third who collected tolls from users of
the road and bridge.
3. The applicability of the Fair Labor Standards Act does not depend
upon the nature of the employer's business, but upon the character
of the employees' activities. P. 132.
4. That a corporation which owns and operates a toll road and drawbridge is subject to state taxation does not imply that it is free from
federal regulation or that its road and drawbridge are not instrumentalities of interstate commerce. P. 132.
128 F. 2d 450, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 317

U. S. 606, to review the affirmance of a

judgment (43 F. Supp. 445) dismissing, as to the petitioners here, a complaint in an action for wages, overtime,
and damages under the Fair Labor Standards Act.

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Mr. Lucien H. Boggs for petitioners.
By special leave of Court, Assistant Attorney General
Shea argued the cause (Solicitor GeneralFahy and Messrs.
Irving J. Levy and Peter Seitz were on the brief) for the
Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, U. S.
Department of Labor, as amicus curiae.
Mr. Roswell P. C. May, with whom Mr. W. Gregory
Smith was on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Harry J. Gerrity filed a brief on behalf of the American Toll Bridge Association et al., as amici curiae, urging
affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is another case in which we must define the scope
of the Fair Labor Standards Act.' 52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C.
§§ 201 et seq. The precise question is whether petitioners, who are engaged in maintaining or operating a toll
road and a drawbridge over a navigable waterway which
together constitute a medium for the interstate movement
of goods and persons, are "engaged in commerce" within
the meaning of §§ 6 and 7 of the Act.'
Petitioners, together with others not parties to this
petition, brought this action against respondent and a
subsidiary under § 16 (b) of the Act for the recovery of
unpaid minimum wages, overtime compensation, and
liquidated damages. Respondent moved to dismiss as to
all the plaintiffs, and the motion as to petitioners was
1Compare Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517; Warren-Bradshaw Drilling Co. v. Hall, 317 U. S. 88; Walling v. Jacksonville Paper
Co., 317 U. S. 564; Higgins v. Carr Brothers Co., 317 U. S. 572.
2 Section 3 (b) defines "commerce" as "trade, commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication among the several States or
from any State to any place outside thereof."

OVERSTREET v. NORTH SHORE CORP.
125

127

Opinion of the Court.

granted by the district court, leave to amend being given
to the other complainants who are not before us. 43 F.
Supp. 445. Petitioners appealed to the Circuit Court of
Appeals which affirmed the order of dismissal. 128 F. 2d
450. The important question raised as to the coverage of
the Act caused us to grant certiorari.
The relevant facts alleged in the complaint as amended,
which are to be taken as true for purposes of the motion
to dismiss, may be summarized as follows:
Respondent owns and operates a toll road and a drawbridge which is part of the road. The toll road connects
United States Highway No. 17, an interstate arterial
Highway, with Fort George Island, which lies off the
northern coast of Florida, being separated from the mainland by the Intercoastal Waterway. The toll road crosses
the Waterway at Sisters' Creek by means of the drawbridge, which must be raised frequently to permit the
passage of boats engaged in interstate commerce. The
toll road constitutes an integral part of the highway
system of the United States and provides the only means
of land communication between Fort George Island and
the Florida mainland. It is used extensively by persons
and vehicles traveling between the island and points outside Florida in interstate commerce. Mail to and from
other States, as well as goods produced outside Florida
and consigned to merchants on the island, are transported
over the toll road. Each of the petitioners was employed
by respondent in connection with the operation of the
toll road and drawbridge. Overstreet operated the drawbridge, raising it for the passage of boats through Sisters'
Creek and lowering it for the resumption of traffic over
the road; Brazle was engaged in maintenance and repair
work on the road and the bridge; and Garvin sold and
collected toll tickets from "vehicles using said toll road in
interstate commerce.", Petitioners received neither the

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

minimum wages nor the overtime compensation prescribed by §§ 6 and 7 of the Act.
We think these allegations bring petitioners within
the coverage of the Act and entitle them to recover if
proved.
Our starting point is respondent's concession that no
question of constitutional power is involved, but only the
ascertainment of Congressional intent, that is, did Congress mean to include employees such as petitioners within the Act. In arriving at that intent it must be
remembered that Congress did not choose to exert its
power to the full by regulating industries and occupations
which affect interstate commerce. See Kirschbaum Co. v.
Walling, 316 U. S. 517, 522-23; Walling v. Jacksonville
Paper Co., 317 U. S. 564. Respondent contends that petitioners are in this category, that their activities are local
and at most only affect commerce. But the policy of
Congressional abnegation with respect to occupations affecting commerce is no reason for narrowly circumscribing
the phrase "engaged in commerce." We said in the Jacksonville PaperCo. case, supra,"It is clear that the purpose
of the Act was to extend federal control in this 'field
throughout the farthest reaches of the channels of interstate commerce." And in determining what constitutes
"'commerce" or "engaged in commerce" we are guided by
practical considerations. Jacksonville Paper Co. case,
supra, and see also Shanks v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co.,
239 U. S. 556, 558, dealing with what will shortly be
pointed out as a similar question in the coverage of the
Federal Employers' Liability Act.
A practical test of what "engaged in interstate commerce" means has been evolved in cases arising under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act (45 U. S. C. §§ 51
et seq.) which, before the 1939 amendment (see 53 Stat.
1404), applied only where injury was suffered while the
carrier was engaging in interstate or foreign commerce and

OVERSTREET v. NORTH SHORE CORP.
125

129

Opinion of the Court.

the injured employee was employed by the carrier "in
such commerce." 35 Stat. 65. In determining the reach
of that phrase, the case of Pedersen v. Delaware, L. & W.
R. Co., 229 U. S. 146, held that an employee who was injured while carrying bolts to be used in repairing a railroad
bridge over which interstate trains passed was engaged in
interstate commerce within the meaning of the Liability
Act. It was pointed out that tracks and bridges were indispensable to interstate commerce and "that the work of
keeping such instrumentalities in a proper state of repair
while thus used is so closely related to such commerce as
to be in practice and in legal contemplation a part of
it." Id. at p. 151. See also Philadelphia,B. & W. R. Co.
v. Smith, 250 U. S. 101; Southern Ry. Co. v. Puckett, 244
U. S. 571; New York Cent. R. Co. v. Porter,249 U. S. 168;
Kinzell v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 250 U. S. 130;
Southern Pacific Co. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 251
U. S. 259; Philadelphia& Reading Ry. Co. v. Di Donato,
256 U. S. 327; Rader v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 108 F.
2d 980. Compare Shanks v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co.,
239 U. S. 556; Chicago & North Western Ry. Co. v. Bolle,
284 U. S. 74; Chicago & EasternIllinois R. Co. v. Commission, 284 U. S: 296.
We think that practical test should govern here.'
Vehicular roads and bridges are as indispensable to the
interstate movement of persons and goods as railroad
tracks and bridges are to interstate transportation by rail.
If they are used by persons and goods passing between the
various States, they are instrumentalities of interstate
3

This has been the administrative interpretation. See Interpreta-

tive Bulletin No. 5 of the Wage and Hour Division of the Department
of Labor, issued in November, 1939, at p. 7. This is set forth in the
1941 Edition of the Wage and Hour Manual at p. 34. See also p. 54.
Compare the dissenting opinion in Pedersen v. Fitzgerald Construction Co., 262 App. Div. 665, 668, 30 N. Y. S.. 2d 989, affirmed without
opinion, 288 N. Y. 211, 687, 43 N. E. 2d 83.

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

commerce. Cf. Covington & Cincinnati Bridge Co. v.
Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204, 218. Those persons who are
engaged in maintaining and repairing such facilities
should be considered as "engaged in commerce" even as
was the bolt-carrying employee in the Pedersen case,
supra, because without their services these instrumentalities would not be open to the passage of goods and persons
across state lines. And the same is true of operational
employees whose work is just as closely related to the
interstate movement. Of course, all this is subject to the
qualification that the Act does not consider as an employer
the United States or any State or political subdivision of
a State, and hence does not apply to their employees.
§ 3 (d).
The allegations of petitioners' complaint satisfy this
practical test. The road and bridge allegedly afford passage to an extensive movement of goods and persons
between Florida and other States, and moreover the drawbridge presents an obstacle to interstate traffic by water
over the Intercoastal Waterway if not properly operated.
The operational and maintenance activities of petitioners
are vital to the proper functioning of these structures
as instrumentalities of interstate commerce. The services
of Overstreet are necessary to prevent the drawbridge
from being either a barrier to interstate navigation or else
a gap in the vehicular way. Without the services of
Brazle the facilities would fall into disrepair, and both
operation and maintenance would seem to depend upon
Garvin's collecting the toll from users of the structures.
The work of each petitioner in providing a means of interstate transportation and communication is so intimately related to interstate commerce "as to be in practice
and in legal contemplation a part of it" (Pedersen'scase,
supra) and justifies regarding petitioners as "engaged
in commerce" within the meaning of the Fair Labor
Standards Act.

OVERSTREET v. NORTH SHORE CORP.
125

131

Opinion of the Court.

Respondent resists the application of the test of the
Pedersen and related cases, cited above, pointing out that
there may be pitfalls in translating implications from
the special aspects of one statute to another (see Federal
Trade Comm'n v. Bunte Bros., 312 U. S. 349, 353), and
claiming that significant differences exist between the
Federal Employers'- Liability Act and the Fair Labor
Standards Act. The outstanding difference asserted is
that a railroad company is actually engaged in commerce
as a carrier of goods and persons, and since it is difficult
to consider the business other than as a whole and to separate maintenance from transportation employees, there
is good reason for treating maintenance employees as engaged in commerce. (Compare the Pedersen case, supra,
at pp. 151-152.) As regards itself respondent says that it
is not engaged in commerce, but only in providing facilities which those carrying on commerce may use, and therefore there is no sound basis for treating its maintenance
and operational employees as engaged in commercerather they only affect commerce. Reliance is placed
upon Henderson Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S. 150,
and Detroit Bridge Co. v. Tax Board, 294 U. S. 83, where
in sustaining the power of the States of Kentucky and
Michigan, respectively, to tax the franchise of domestic
corporations operating bridges between Kentucky and
Indiana and between Michigan and Canada, it was said
that the respective bridge companies were not engaged in
interstate or foreign commerce. We do not regard these
objections as well taken.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act and the Fair
Labor Standards Act are not strictly analogous, but they
are similar. Both are aimed at protecting commerce from
injury through adjustment of the master-servant relationship, the one by liberalizing the common law rules pertaining to negligence and the other by eliminating substandard working conditions. We see no persuasive rea-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

son why the scope of employed or engaged "in commerce"
laid down in the Pedersen and related cases, cited above,
should not be applied to the similar language in the Fair
Labor Standards Act, especially when Congress in adopting the phrase "engaged in commerce" had those Federal
Employers' Liability Act cases brought to its attention.'
The Henderson and Detroit bridge cases, supra, do not
affect our conclusion. We have pointed out that decisions
such as those, dealing with various assertions of state or
federal power in the commerce field, are not particularly
helpful in determining the scope of the Act. Kirschbaum
Co. v. Walling, supra, pp. 520-21; Walling v. Jacksonville Paper Co., supra. But even if we accept the premise
of the Bridge cases and regard respondent as not engaged
in commerce, the result is not changed. The nature of
the employer's business is not determinative, because as
we have repeatedly said, the application of the Act depends
upon the character of the employees' activities. Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, supra, p. 524; Warren-Bradshaw
Drilling Co. v. Hall, 317 U. S. 88; Walling v. Jacksonville
Paper Co., supra. The fact that respondent may be subject to state taxation does not imply that it is free from
federal regulation or that its road and drawbridge are not
instrumentalities of interstate commerce. Petitioners,
who are engaged in operating and maintaining respondent's facilities so that there may be interstate passage of
persons and goods over them, are so closely related to that
interstate movement as a practical matter that we think
they must be regarded, under the allegations of their complaint, as "engaged in commerce" within the meaning of
§§ 6 and 7 of the Act.
4See 83 Cong. Rec., 75th Cong., 3d Sess., Pt. 7, p. 7434, and Pt. 8,
pp. 9168-71. See also Joint Hearings before the Senate Committee
on Education and Labor and the House Committee on Labor on
S. 2475 and H. R. 7200, 75th Cong., 1st Sess. (1937), Pt. 1, pp. 42-43.

C. J. HENDRY CO. v. MOORE.
125

Counsel for Parties.

We conclude that petitioners' complaint was erroneously
dismissed. Accordingly, the judgment below is reversed
and the cause remanded to the district court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON dissent.

C. J. HENDRY CO. ET AL. v. MOORE ET AL., AS THE
FISH AND GAME COMMISSION OF CALIFORNIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 60. Argued November 10, 1942.-Decided February 8, 1943.
L Forfeiture by procedure in rem of a net which, while being used by
a fishing vessel in navigable coastal waters of a State, had been seized
for violation of a law of the State forbidding fishing by net in those
-waters, is "a common law remedy" which "the common law is competent to give," within the statutory exception to the exclusive jurisdiction in admiralty conferred on district courts of the United States
by § 9 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, and the State may provide for
such forfeiture in a proceeding in a state court. Pp. 134, 153.
2. The common law, as received in this country at the time of the
adoption of the Constitution, gave a remedy in rem in cases of
forfeiture. P. 153.
18 Cal. 2d 835, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 316 U. S. 643, to review the affirmance of a
judgment of forfeiture of a net used in violation of a
state law.

Mr. Alfred T. Cluff, with whom Mr. Arch E. Ekdale was
on the brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. Everett W. Mattoon, Assistant Attorney General of California, and Eugene M. Elson, Deputy Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Earl Warren, Attorney General,
was on the brief, for respondents.

