HOOPESTON CO. v. CULLEN.
Syllabus.

HOOPESTON CANNING CO. ET AL. v. CULLEN,
SUPERINTENDENT OF INSURANCE OF NEW
YORK, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK, ALBANY
COUNTY.

No. 358.

Argued February 3, 4, 1943.-Decided March 1, 1943.

1. In determining whether there is being done within a State a business in insurance which is subject to regulation by the State, considerations of the location of activity prior to and subsequent to
the making of the contract, of the degree of interest of the regulating
State in the object insured, and of the location of the property
insured are separately and collectively of great weight. P. 319.
2. Reciprocal insurance associations which insured property located
in New York, although their attorneys-in-fact were located in
Illinois and the contracts of insurance were signed and checks in
payment of losses were mailed in Illinois, held subject to regulation
by New York. Pp. 315, 319.
The reciprocal insurance associations in this case had many actual
contacts (detailed in the opinon) with subscribers and the insured
property in New York; much of the insurance covered immovables
located in New York; and the associations had for years been
licensed to do business in New York.
3 Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, distinguished. P. 318.
4. The New York regulations of foreign reciprocal insurance associations here challenged-regulations aimed at the protection of the
solvency of such associations or at promoting the convenience of
residents of the State in doing their insurance business-held not
violative of the due process or equal protection clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 321.
(1) That the regulations affect business activities which are
carried on outside of the State does not in itself render them
invalid. P. 320.
(2) Since each subscriber is an insurer and other subscribers are
dependent on his financial responsibility, the requirement that each
new subscriber must have assets in excess of $10,000 does not violate
the equal protection clause. P. 321.
(3) Reciprocal insurance associations are not denied equal protection by the imposition upon them of requirements different from
those imposed upon mutual companies. P. 321.

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

(4) The requirements that an office be maintained in the State
and that policies be countersigned by a resident agent are valid.

P. 321.
(5) The argument that reciprocals give complete security with

substantial economy to their members, and that New York subscribers may lose the benefits of this form of insurance by reason
of the inability of the reciprocals to comply with the New York
law, can not affect the validity of the challenged regulations.
P. 321.
288 N. Y. 291, 43 N. E. 2d 49, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment entered on remittitur of the

Court of Appeals of New York, which sustained the validity of provisions of the state Insurance Law as applied to
the appellants. See also 262 App. Div. 446, 29 N. Y. S.
2d 300, and 24 N. Y. S. 2d 312.
Mr. Franklin D. Trueblood, with whom Messrs. Craig
R. Johnson and Carl 0. Olson were on the brief, for
appellants.
Mr. John C. Crary, Jr., Assistant Attorney General of
New York, with whom Messrs. Nathaniel L. Goldstein,
Attorney General, and Wendell P. Brown, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUsTicE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The New York Insurance Law (Cons. Laws, ch. 28),
as amended in 1939, provides a comprehensive and detailed plan for regulation of all types of insurance and
insurance companies "doing an insurance business" (§ 41)
in that state. Article 12, applicable to reciprocal insurance associations, defines them as aggregations of persons,
firms, or corporations, who under a common name engage
in the business of exchanging contracts of insurance on
the reciprocal plan through an attorney in fact.'
2 Inter-insurance, or reciprocal insurance, has been described as
"that system of insurance whereby several individuals, partnerships
and corporations underwrite each other's risks against loss by fire or

HOOPESTON CO. v. CULLEN.
313

Opinion of the Court.

The issue in this case is whether the appellants, reciprocal insurance associations which insure against fire
and related risks and whose attorneys in fact are located
in Illinois, may constitutionally be made subject to the
laws of New York as a condition of insuring property in
that state. The New York Law, § 422, requires that these
coperative insurance associations must obtain a license
or be prohibited from doing "any act which effects, aids or
promotes the doing of an insurance business" in New
York, § 410 (2). As a condition of the license, submission
to the New York regulations is required. The appellants
contend that the law as applied to them violates the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment. They raised these questions appropriately
in a declaratory judgment action in New York state
courts, the Court of Appeals upheld the law, and the case
is here on appeal under § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code.
These reciprocals have been annually licensed to do
business in New York since 1930 and allege that they are
"desirous of qualifying under the valid provisions of the
Insurance Law of 1939, and of securing a license thereunder." More than 50,000 contracts affecting New York
state risks have been executed since the reciprocals began
business, and the gross payments made by New York concerns as premiums or deposits amounted to more than
$2,000,000 for the period from 1931 to 1938. The total of
other hazard, through an attorney in fact, common to all, under an

agreement that each underwriter acts separately and severally, and not
jointly with any other." 58 Central L. J.323. The nature of the
business of these particular reciprocals is fully discussed in the opinion
of the court below and is described to some extent in this opinion. The
opinion of the trial court is reported at 24 N. Y. S. 2d 312; the
opinion of the Appellate Division is reported at 262 App. Div. 446,
29 N. Y. S. 2d 300; and the opinion of the Court of Appeals is reported
at 288 N. Y. 291, 43 N. E. 2d 49. For a general discussion of the
nature of inter-insurers and some of their legal problems, see 94
A. L. R. 836.

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

premiums or deposits from insurance affecting New York
property is more than that from Illinois, the state in
which the associations have their headquarters and whose
laws they insist must govern their contracts.
Two principal contentions are urged against the constitutionality of the New York law as applied to these
reciprocals: (a) Since the contracts of insurance are
signed in Illinois and losses are paid by checks mailed
from that state, the associations do no business in New
York which therefore has no power to regulate them. (b)
Assuming that New York does have general power to
regulate, nevertheless certain of the provisions of the
statute do not accord with due process and deny equal
protection of the law.
First. Business in New York. Assuming that the formalities of contract are carried on in Illinois, the issue
remains whether the insurance enterprise as a whole so
affects New York interests as to give New York the power
it claims.
In determining the power of a state to apply its own
regulatory laws to insurance business activities, the question in earlier cases became involved by conceptualistic
discussion of theories of the place of contracting or of performance. 2 More recently it has been recognized that a
state may have substantial interests in the business of
insurance of its people or property regardless of these isolated factors. This interest may be measured by highly
realistic considerations such as the protection of the citizen insured or the protection of the state from the incidents of loss. Alaska Packers Assn. v. Industrial Accident Comm'n, 294 U. S. 532, 542. To insure the protection of state interests it is now recognized that a state
may not be required to enforce in its own courts the terms
2

Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, 587. See, A Factual Approach
to the Constitutional Law Aspect of the Conflict of Laws, 35 Col. L. R.
751. Cf. Frene v. Louisville Cement Co., 134 F. 2d 511.

HOOPESTON CO. v. CULLEN.
313

Opinion of the Court.

of an insurance policy normally subject to the law of
another state where such enforcement will conflict with
the public policy of the state of the forum. Griffin v.
McCoach, 313 U. S. 498.'
The actual physical signing of contracts may be only one
element in a broad range of business activities. Business
may be done in a state although those doing the business
are scrupulously careful to see that not a single contract
is ever signed within that state's boundaries. Important
as the execution of written contracts may be, it is ordinarily
but an intermediate step serving to tie up prior business
negotiations with future consequences which themselves
are the real object of the business transaction.
The facts of the instant case give clear proof of these
statements. The contracts are made in this way: A canner
or wholesale grocer in New York signs an application to
become a "subscriber." This is sent to the attorney in
fact at the head office in Chicago. One of a group of insurance engineers may be sent to New York to investigate the
risk, and if accepted, the applicant signs a power of attorney and sends it and the application back to the attorney in fact. The attorney in fact then issues a policy
of inter-insurance which is mailed to the subscriber in New
York, and the subscriber thus becomes the insurer and the
insured. The insurance engineers may visit the subscriber
8This rule was not applied where the state had no actual contact
with the insurance contract; i. e., where neither the original insured

nor the company were residents of the state, the property insured was
elsewhere, and the contract was made elsewhere. Home Insurance
Co. v. Dick, 281 U. S. 397. Cf. Kryger v. Wilson, 242 U. S. 171, where,

under similar circumstances, a state was entitled to apply its own
law in a non-insurance situation where the property which was the
subject of the litigation was within its bounds.
4InternationalHarvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 579. For an
example of the refusal of a court to permit evasion of the law of a state
by a contract made just over its borders, see Ocean Accident & G. Corp.
v. Industrial Commission, 32 Ariz. 275, 285, 257 P. 644.

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U.S.

from time to time to encourage the reduction of fire hazards
or to investigate the cause and extent of losses, and on such
trips the engineer may give information concerning the
enterprise to prospective participants, although he does
not actively solicit business. The contracts reserved the
right of the reciprocals to go into New York to repair, rebuild, or replace lost or damaged property. Cf. Lumbermen's Insurance Co. v. Meyer, 197 U. S. 407, 417. Surely
the object of all this activity is not the signing of a contract
or a check, but the protection of property and payment of
indemnity in case of loss by fire. These business transactions neither begin nor end with the contract.
The intimacy of the relation of these insurance contracts
to the state of New York becomes even more apparent
when it is remembered that the property insured is in the
state of New York. The states have long held great authority over property within their borders. A state may
make flood control, quarantine, conservation and zoning
regulations affecting property within its bounds. It is the
source of law for the forms of conveyances, for the nature
of covenants, future interests and easements, for the construction of wills, trusts, and mortgages, and for many
other legal principles affecting property interests. Contracts formally made in other states may remain subject
to the law of the state of the situs of the property, particularly in respect to immovables.' There is no more
reason to bar the state from authority over the insurance
of the property within it than to exclude it from control of
all the other property interests mentioned.
The appellants draw counter conclusions from Allgeyer
v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, and the cases which follow it.
5 Carpenterv. Strange, 141 U. S. 87, 106; Watkins v. Holman, 16 Pet.
25, 57; Fall v. Eastin, 215 U. S. 1, 9,12; cf. Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194; Curry v. McCanless, 307 U. S. 357, 363; Grave8
v. Elliott, 307 U. S. 383. For a discussion of this subject, see Cook,
'Immovables' and the 'Situs,' 52 Harvard L. Rev. 1246.

HOOPESTON CO. v. CULLEN.
313

Opinion of the Court.

While the wisdom of the Allgeyer case has occasionally
been doubted, it is in any case clearly distinguishable here.
In that case, no act was done in the state of Louisiana except that of mailing a letter advising the insurance company of a shipment of goods, the goods themselves were in
the state only temporarily, and the insurance company
never purported to do business in the state. In the instant
case, the reciprocals have the many actual contacts with
the New York subscribers and the New York property outlined above, much of the insurance covers permanent immovables, and the reciprocals have been licensed to do
business there for years. The Allgeyer and subsequent insurance cases have been recently considered in Griffin v.
McCoach, supra, at 506, 507, and in Osborn v. Ozlin, 310
U. S. 53, 66; as the analysis in those opinions clearly indicates, the Allgeyer line of decisions cannot be permitted to
control cases such as this, where the public policy of the
state is clear, the insured interest is located in the state,
and there are many points of contact between the insurer
and the property in the state.
We conclude that in determining whether insurance
business is done within a state for the purpose of deciding
whether a state has power to regulate the business, considerations of the location of activity prior and subsequent
to the making of the contract, Osborn v. Ozlin, supra,of the
degree of interest of the regulating state in the object insured, and of the location of the property insured are
separately and collectively of great weight. Applying
any of these tests, it is apparent that the reciprocals are
doing business in New York and are thereby subject to
regulation by that state.
Second. Validity of the Regulations. The assailed
requirements are in substance these.' Reciprocals' subThe sections of the Insurance Law which appellants contend are
invalid are §§ 130, 168 (2), 410 (1), 412 (1), 413 (2), 415 (1),
417 (1), 418 (1) (3), 420, 421, and 422 (1).

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

scribers in every state must execute their powers of attorney in accordance with specified forms and a standard
form of contract must be used by all subscribers whereever they are located. Certain forms of accounting are
also required. Advisory committees of the subscribers
themselves, rather than appointed attorneys in fact, must
have ultimate powers of management of the reciprocals'
affairs and must provide regulations for the control and
custody of their funds. The advisory committee must
be elected at an annual meeting of the subscribers, held
after notice to them, where they can be present either in
person or by proxy. Provision must be made for stipulated operating reserves for payment of losses, for a contingent liability of subscribers of not less than one nor
more than ten times the amount of the annual premium
expressed in the contract, and for a surplus to be maintained unimpaired. No subscriber is to be granted a
secured or preferred claim against the operating reserve.
No new agreements are to be made with subscribers who
do not have net assets in excess of ten thousand dollars.
At least one office must be maintained in New York and
policies must be countersigned by a resident New York
agent.
These regulations can not be attacked merely because
they affect business activities which are carried on outside
the state. Of necessity, any regulations affecting the solvency of those doing an insurance business in a state
must have some effect on business practices of the same
company outside the state. Nothing in the Constitution
requires a state to nullify its own protective standards
because an enterprise regulated has its headquarters elsewhere. The power New York may exercise to regulate
domestic insurance associations may be applied to forcign associations which New York permits to conduct the
same kind of business. The appellants can not, "by
spreading their business and activities over other states

HOOPESTON CO. v. CULLEN.
313

Opinion of the Court.

. . . set at naught the public policy" of New York,
Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. v. Grosjean,301 U. S. 412, 427.
Where as here the state has full power to prescribe the
forms of contract, the terms of protection of the insured,
and the type of reserve funds needed, "the mere fact that
state action may have repercussions beyond state lines is
of no judicial significance." Osborn v. Ozlin, supra, at 62.
Neither New York nor Illinois loses the power to protect
the interests of its citizens because these associations carry
on activities in both places. Alaska Packers Assn. v.
IndustrialAccident Comm'n, supra. We think the regulations themselves, since they are aimed at the protection
of the solvency of the reciprocals or at promoting the
convenience with which New York residents may do their
insurance business, are all within the scope of state power.
Osborn v. Ozlin, supra, at 65, 66.
It is argued that the provision requiring each new subscriber to have net assets of $10,000 violates the equal
protection clause, but since each subscriber is also an
insurer and other subscribers are dependent on his financial responsibility, there is no reason why the legislature
might not think this provision necessary. It is also complained that different requirements have been put upon
reciprocals than mutual companies; but we have previously held that a cobperative insurance company may be
subject to separate classification for the purpose of determining how it shall be regulated. German Alliance Ins.
Co. v. Kansas, 233 U. S. 389, 418. Cf. Tigner v. Texas, 310
U. S. 141. The provisions requiring an office in the state
and counter signature of the contracts by an agent in the
state are no more stringent than those approved in La
Tourette v. McMaster, 248 U. S. 465.
The appellants earnestly insist that theirs is a successful system of co6perative insurance which gives complete
security with substantial economy to their members, and
that their New York subscribers may lose the benefits of

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.

322

Syllabus.

318 U. S.

this form of insurance by reason of the reciprocals' inability to comply with the requirements of the New York law.
That the reciprocals save for their members from 25 to 50
per cent of the cost of ordinary commercial insurance and
that the members are well satisfied with the system they
have created is not controverted by counsel for the state
of New York. However persuasive such arguments might
be if addressed to the state legislature, they present no
constitutional barrier which prevents New York from
enforcing these regulations if it chooses.
Affirmed.
The CHIEF
the result.

JUSTICE

and MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON concur in

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. AMERICAN DENTAL CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 303.

Argued January 5, 6, 1943.-Decided March 1, 1943.

1. The finding of the Board of Tax Appeals that the cancellation of
indebtedness in question occurred in 1937 is accepted here. P. 324.
2. The term "gift" in § 22 (b) (3) of the Revenue Act of 1936 denotes
the receipt of financial advantages gratuitously. P. 330.

3. A cancellation of items of indebtedness owed by a corporation (rent
and interest on notes), though the items had been accrued and
served to offset income in prior years, and though the corporation
was solvent, held, under § 22 (b) (3) of the Revenue Act of 1936, a
"gift" exempt from federal income tax, P. 330.
4. A finding of the Board of Tax Appeals that the debt cancellation
in question was not a "gift" within the meaning of § 22 (b) (3) of
the Revenue Act of 1936 is not conclusive here, because the Board

