ro

CisEs ruled and adjudged

ift
the

T-r. .Trial, nr dr.charge the Defendant from Bail, without'ome iti
%
pearance ol opprkliwn:r

Ti.e g Je f

"rC i AI

(O'Nverf]iS CAMP3SELL,

fupp.eYted his Title bya Patent dated in 1762. Th6
D LAINTIFF
D),;I
nd int produced R:ceip:s from, the Proprietary's Officersi
with a W rrant from Mr. Petars, S-cretary of the-Land Office,-fevei'al Yea.rs prior to Plaintih's Patent, and proved upwards of twenty
Years Poff6elion; but -the Plaintiff contending that the Receipts
were only for Money paid on accompt ot an adjacent Tra&, and that
there was fome impofition on,thfe Land Oibcer when the Warrant
was granted; the Defendant produced'a Witn~f; to prove a parol
Deci .ration of Mr. Thoina Penn (when- he was in the Cpuntry)
tha~t the Land' in difpute was fold to Defendant.-This _piece of
Evidence w.,s oppofed by the Plaintiff, anti refufed BY THE COJRT.
N. B. The Plaintiff could prove no impofition on the Q icer,
and the Court gave a Charge in favour of the. Defendant, and thL
-. aintiffwouldnot take the Verdi&, but bedame rnonfuit-

STORT and WAAARTO'N vetifz

S

A

chs ST.ETTELta

Ult Policy of Inrurance. The C-ptain's Proteft in 7amaac
under the Seal of a Notary Publick there, giVen in Evidence to
yrove the Capture, -ndnot oppofed.
Inffru&ions from the Plaintiffs (Owners of the Veffel infured) to
the C:ptain at ihe time of his failing, fworn by the C'ptain to be
Evidence by the Plain.
the only Inflru&ions he had, were given ifi
tiff, to prove they had given the Cap tain no Orders to buy the Veffel on their account in cafe of a capttre and re~c-ipture, flightly
opnfed b Dfehd nts Ccuihcil, ur.d riven us ,ithout debate.
"The Iend nt in this cife undzrwrote an open Policy on the
Veffel from Phitdetp, iato .C7ra.cd, fle was t ,ken by the Enemy
and ret ken, -nd cnrried into Yanzatras f here by Agreement between the Captain an'd 1e-c "pto:s; 'ithout going into the Court of
Adrir. lty, Ine was fia at public S.le for about one fourth of thd
S-un infurcd, .nd b*oughl by the Capt..in fdr the former Owners, wh5
afterward€ acuiefced in the pnrchafe and now fued for the h'Ie
Saminfired as a total lofs. T he -S:lewas proved to be fair, and
t.e Pl.inti~f's Council infit l that from the momet of the ( apti-re, there was a to't 1 lofs, :,nd cited divers cafes to fhew, that. if
there be a C ,pture; thiough it be not fuch a one as.by the Law of
N tions would ch nge the Property, yet it would -be ifficient t&
.hrge Underwriters with a total Lofs, and the Aflured m y' zb n
floa---Beaw'* Me.tr: 268. Csrvem 225. 25q. 3o. 340;

