COURT of OYER and TERMINER &c. at

Philadefpia." 35

And" BY THE COtfRT it 'was accordingl y ruled, thai evidence
might be given of an ove -t a&, committed ,in another county, after
an &vertaawas proved to have been committed in the county vfhe"
the indi&ment was laid and'tried.
The Defendant was acquitted.
The Attorney General and Reed for the Commonwealth.
Ft'Ilfon and Rofs for the Defendant.

RESPUBLICA verfus

ABRAHAM

CARLISLX.

' HIS was an indi&ment for High reafoai, which was fet forth
..

in the following words:
The Jurors for the Commonwealth of Pennfylvania,"upon their
" oaths and affirmations, do prefent, That tbraham Carlij7e, late
Ccof the city of Philadelphia, in the county of Philadelphia, carpen r
" ter; being an inhabitant of and belonging to and refliding within
c the State of Pennfylvania, and under the prote&ion of its laws, and
cc owing allegiance to the fame State, as a falfe traitor againft the
,c fame, not having-the fear of God before his eyes, but being moved
" and feduced by the inifigation of tAe Devil, the fidelity -which to
" the fame State he owed. wholly withdrawing, and with all his
might intending the peace and tranquillity of this Commonwealth
" of Pennfylvania to difturb,, and war and rebellion againft the fame
" to rife-and move, and the government and independency thereof,
" as by law eftabliflied, to fubvert, and to raife again and refiore-the
government and tyranny. of the king of GreatBritainwithin the
fame Commonwealth: On the firft day of anuary, in the-year of
" our Lord one thoufand feven hundred and fevent , eight, and at divers days and times, as well before as after, At the ciiy of Philadeiphia,in the county aforefaid, with force and arms, did falfely arid
" traiteroully take a commillion or commiffions from the king of
" Great Britaifi, and then and there; with force and-arms did falfely
" and treacheroufly alfo take a commiflimn or commifflions from ge" neral Sir J'lliamHwe, then and there a&ing under the faid king
" of GreatBritain, and under the authority ofthe fame king, to wit,
a commiffion to watch over and guard the gates of the city of Phi" ladeiphia, by the faid Sir Jl 7illiam Howe, ere&ed ad fet up for the
purpofe of keeping and maintaining the poffefion of the faid city,
" and of ihutting and excluding the faithful and liege inhabitants
" and fubje&s of this State and of. the United States from the'faid
city : And then And there alfo maliciouly and traiteroufly, with
" a great multitude of traitors and rebels, againfi the faid Common" wealth, (whofe names are as yet unknown to the jurors) being
armed and arrayed in a hoftile manner, with force and arms did
" falfely and traiteroufly affemble and join himfelf qgainft this. Commonwealth, and then and there, with force and arms, did falfel'
" and traiteroufly, and in a warlike and hoftile manner, array :.in.i
E
"difof "
"

17 ,9
'-.,

-

1 . 36
17 z_

CASES ruled and adjudged in a

difpofe himfelf againif this Commonwealth; and then and there.
• in purfuance and execution of fuch his wicked and traiterous inten"-tios and purpoles af6refiid, did falfely and traiteroufly prepare, ordir, wage and levy a pxublic aud cruel war againit this Common'Wealth'; then and there committing and perpetrating a miferable
and cruel flaughter of and amongft the faithful and liege inhabitants
thereof; and then and there did, with force and arms, falfely and.
, traitero6l y aid and afflift the king QiGreat-Britain,being an-enemy
" at-open war again't this State, by joining his armies, to wit, his
" army under thecommand of general Sir HqlliamHowe, then ac&ually irvadingthis State; 2nd then and there malicioufly and traiterouf" ly, (; ith divers other Traitors to the jurors aforefaid unknown,)
'With forc andarms, did combine, plot and confpire to betray this
" State and the United States ofZmerica into the hands and power of
the kingy of Great-Britain,beinga foreign enemy to this State and to
the United Staies'of America, at open war againft the fame; and
, then and there did, with forceand arms, malicioully and traiterouf" lygive and fend intelligence to the fame enemies for thatpurpofe,
" aimni the duty of his allegiance, againft the form of the a& ofAf" fembly in fich cafe made and provided, and againit the peace and
" dignity of the Commonwealth of Pennfylvania."

-

The _dtornzey General offering a witnefs to prove, that the Defendant had taken a quantity of falt from perfons whoii he ternied Reheb, as they were paffing out of the city of Philadelphia; and that he
had a power of granting paffus ; his counfel objected, that this was
in-pertinent to the overt a0 laid in the indi&ment, and therefore
not admiflible. 2 ;Vils. 148. 9. It was urged that at conmmon law,
no evidence could he given of a fa6f, which was not ftated in the
declaration. L. N. P. 21. 192. 3. And that this caution, with
refpe& to.the allegataetprohata, in a ci,il caufe, ought, afortiori, to
be exercifed in a capital profecution. The overt at muff be particularlv laid, and ftri6tly proved, z H, H. P. C. 121. For, juftice requires that the Defendant fhould be fully apprized of Ihe
charge, fo" that he may have an opportunity of encountring it with
his evidence. When, indeed, one overt a47 is eltabliflhed, evidence
may be given of another overt a17, relative to the fame treafon, but
not before. " The only overt o17 laid in the prefent indictment, is
taking a commiflion ; and it is no oroof of the Defendant's taking,
a commillion,that he fei.zed the falt in queftion,or poffeffed a power or
authority' to let people out of the city,-Merely to fay, likewife,
that he was aiding and aflifting the enemy. without laying- fmething !more, is no off~nce; to afcertain the crime, it mult be hy
joining the armies of the enemy; y iurnifhing them with nrovifions ; hy enliffing, or procdring others to enlilt in their troops, or
hy carrying on a traiterous correfpondence with them. The aiding
and afilting is the Treafon, but thefe are the over a,57s, which muff ba
laid and proved, 11norder to convi t the Defendant of the charge.
'The ttorney General, in reply, obferved, that by the pleadings in
a cii a"tion, the ififbe muft be iedued "o a fingle point.; and he adinitcd ,that in al indic'ments for treafon, an.oe,'t a,7 muft be' laid
and

COURT Of OYER

and TEMI(NER &c. at Phiade hia.

37

t
and proved. But, he contended, that it was unnecefhary to fill the 177
indicCmeht with a detail of the whole evidence in fupport of the profecution; for, if the charge is reduced to a reafonable certainty, it is
all that juiftice can require, and it is all that is to be found in any
former precedent. Divers overt a.?s may, alfo, be laid in the fame
indi&rmbnt ; and, though fome of them are iaul,
if one be well
proved, it is fufficient to entitle the Commonwealth to a verdi&.
Where a perfot was charged with compaffing the king's deth, 'evidence was allowed to be given of the prifoner's aflembling with for-

ty men, though that overt a17 was not laid in the indiament. Ffl.•
245. id. 9. 10. 22. As to what amounts to levying war, itis faid
Id. 1z6. that the joining with rebels in an a& of rebellion, or with
enemies in an aa of holfility, will make a man a traitor. So, likewife, hutting gates againhi the king, or"his troops; in confederacy
with enemies, or rebels, comes within the fame defcription of treafon.
Id. 2 t8. and the fame overt a't5 may be applied to feveral diflin&
branches of treafon, Id. x96, 7" 8. where, it appears, that lord
Pre/ on's taking boat at Surry flairs, with the intention of carrying.
treafonable papers into France, for treafonab!c purpofes, was a fufficient cver! at7 in Middljex, to maintain the indi-tment there. Id.
217. 218. The form of the prefent indi~lment is fimilar to that
againfi Eneas M'Donald. Id. 5- The charge of levying war is made
in the fame manner, as in the proceedings againif the rebels in the
year 1746. And the arraying and marching are alfo laid agreeably

to the terms of all the precedents'.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the Court to the
following effea:
M'KEAN, Chiefyuiice. There are * three fpecies of treafon in
Pennfylvania: Fil), To tike a commilion or commiffions fronk the
king of Great-Britain, or any under his authority; f'condl, To levy
war againit the State or Government thereof; and thirdly, Knowingly and'willingly to aid and allill any'enemnies at open war againft
this State, or the United States of AZverica. With refpe&, to this
third fpecies of treafon, the Legiflature has further explained the
meaning of the words,. aiding and a/flng, to be, " byjoiningthe ar-" mies of the enemy, or by enlifting, or procuring, or perfuading
" others to enlift for that purpofe; or by furnifhing fuch enemies
" with arms or ammunition, provifion, or any other article, or ar" ticles, for their aid or comfort, or.by carrying on a traiterous cor" refpondence with them."- Al thefe feveral fpecies of treafon are

laid in this indiament.
An a& of Affembly pzffed the 3 d December, 1782, has encreared the number
oftreafons, by declaring, that " ereding, or endeavonring to erect a new and in" dependant government -%Yirhiv this Commonwealth-" and alfe " fetting up any
" notice, written or printed, cAling the people together for that parpofe," are adu
of high treafon. See 3 Sl. .Laz,, zz.

38
78.

.j

CASES

ruled and adjudged in a

It is here particularly flated, that the Defendant took a commiffion, under the king of Great-Britain, to watch and guard the gates
of thq city of Philadelphia; and the offence is certain enough in this
defciipton, though, without fome overt aa, it would not be fufFlcient for a conviction. In order to prove an overt aa7, however,,
evidence has been offered to (hew, that the prifoner had a power of
granting paffes into, and out of the city, which was at that time in
the poffeflion of the enemy. In F 9!?. zo. a witnefs depofed, that
one Berwick was confined in the room afligned for the rebel oficers
taken at CarlJ7e by the duke of Cumberland; and this was deemed
a fufficient proof of his holding a commiflion. The Court, on the
prefent occafion, however, are of opinion, that the evidence which
is offered, ought to -e received, but not as conclufive proof of the
Defendant's having-taken a commillion. Nor will the evidence of
feizing the falt, or any ad of difarmiing the inhabitants whom the
Defendant called Rebels, apply to this' fpecies of treafon; however
they may fiipport the allegation, of his havipg joined the armies of
the king of Great-Britain.
We think it is fufficient, alfo, to lay in the indidment, that the
Defendant fent intelligence to the enemy, without 1l!tting forth the
particular letter, or its contents: And, though the charge of levying
war is not, of itfelf, fufficient; yet affembling, joining and arraying himfelfwith-the forces of the enemy, is a fuflicient overt aa?, of
levying war.
BY THE CouRT :-Let thewitnefsbe fworn.
The Attorney General and Reed, for the Commonwealth-Raof
and JXilfon for the Defendant.
The .Defendant being convided by the verdi&l of the Jury, his
counfel filed the following reafons in arreft of judgment:
Sift.

For that the indi6tment is vague and uncertain, there being

no overt-ac7 exprefsly or particularly afcertained, as the prifoner is

fidvifed it ought to be.
2dly. For that the formal part of the indicament is not drawn with
fufficient precifion.
3dly. For that the feveral fa&s are fo uncertainly charged, that
the prifoner could not be apprized of the particulars urged againft
him. And
4 thly. That the whole wantsform and fubifance.
Thefe reafons were elaborately difcuffed on the 5 th of Oelo~er,
x778, by the fame counfel on both fides: But, upoir mature confideration, they were finally over-ruled BY"T
COURY, who gave
judgment for the Commonwealth; and the Defendant, a fhort
time afterwards, was accordingly executed.
RLSPTLICA

