188

CASES ruled a.nd adjudged in the

INNES

E6.

verfus

MILLER.

P

EFERREES, having fettled their minds with regard to their
%,rpert,fent for the Plaintiff, and afked him whether he would
agree that a quarter's rent, which accrued after the a&ion brought,
. iould be taker/ into, the fettleinent, and the Defendant credited for
it, which would have made the ballance in favor of the lattet
This the Plaintiff relafcd to comply with, and withdrew, without
being afked another queftion, or faying any thing furiher upon the
fubje&.
A motion was now made to fet Afide the report.
BY TIi Coua-r. Reforrees ought to proceed,. not only fo as to
do juftice, but to avoid ihe appearance of injuifice; left a precedent
lhculd be eflabliflhed, which might afterward. be perverted to a bad
ufe. Mifbehaviour is, therefore, a reafbn for the Court to interpofe and let afide a report, no lefs than partiality and corruption.
Referrees, however, are allowed greater latitude in their proceedings than juries. They are not equally bound to time and place,
nor to the fame ftritnefs of method in receiving teftimony. A referrence would be of little fervice, if a report were liable to be fet
atide, for an irregularity fo fmall as that mentioned tly the Counfel,
in the cafe of .&xrcn's Lrf§le vs. the Proprietar:es, for the Southf1 et lots? that 9f merely handing in a paper to the Jury by miflake,
which was only a copy of an original produced at the trial. Suppole, in the prefent inftance, the Referrees had adjourned, and in
the intcrmediate time, meeting L'ues in the ftreet, lhould make the
propofal mentioned to him-4irely this woiild not fet afide the re_poxt. it is true, that the manner in which it was done, gave room
Jor fame fufpicion, and the Defendant had-%a right to prefume, that
But the faa is fanistatorily exall was not fairly conduded.
plained by the Retexrees, and we do not think it fuch mifbehaviouz
as will invalidate the report.' Therefore,
h,et Judgment be entered for the Plaintiff.

JAhIES * et al. verf

ALLEN.

rTHE care was this :-The Plaintiffs and ihe Defenivant ha.d
b,en concerned together in trade; and upon fettling their ac.counts, a confiderable ballance appeared again1 Alien ; ior the recuver'y of which an a6ion was brought in the State of .ANc-Jerfy
'in Piy 1782; and judgmcnt was thercin obtained in 2Vcvcmbcrfoilov ii~g,hv len a FI.fa.-ifficd, and on a return ofA'ulla hona to that
writ, a Ca. S'a. was fued out returnable to Mlay 1783 -In the
mean i 3ie, the Defendant, on the 27 th of Atri 1- 8-, was arrelfed in Pcnnjfivnia foi the fame debt, *and gave bait; but, on his
return to ANw-ycrfey, he , as there taken on the Ca. Sa. which
had

