CAsgs ruled and adjudged ir the

4:36
x789.

4

nonths after' they were inade. i Chan. Ca. _170 2 Ilern. 564.
Thefe, indeed, were"con.fidered in the nature of purchafors by de-.
fe&ive conveyance, and the law a. a penal one. . See, alfo,
I W/ill. 279.
Upon the -whole; the Court are clearly of opinion with the Deiendant, and dire& judgment to be entered accordingly.
Judgment for the Derendarit.

QUESNE - verfus

Mussi.

T

HE Defendant being fued by a.Cap:asin this a&;Ion, 1athly
. obtained a. rule to fhe, caufe why the writ 1huuld not be,
upon proof that the DefEndant was a Freeholder.
*quaflhed,
Igerfol and Du Poncrau oppofed the rule, and produced the re.
had &c.
been obtained againla the Decords of two judgments jtWhich
the Peace
fendant befere a yuflice
By TrHs COURT :T.his is a fufficieut ground to defeat the pri.xilege'of a Freeholder.
-Let the ide bcitfcharged.

PARKER

et al. verfats

WOOD..

Factas on a tnortg.ge of lands in ,rihaiton county.,
Thi caufe was tried at "Efloin,when a verdi.& was taken for
the Plaitiff, fubjea to the opinion of the Court, on the following
"

CIRE

cife76, made
." ThAt the Defendant; A]oed, on the 2oth of.'une,
and executed tlie mortgage deed in' the record fet forth ; and, on
•the 5th day of.7idy, "1776, acknowledged. the fame before PeterKuchflen,"Efquiie, th'en holding a commiflion as bne of the Juiges
of the Court of Gdmrnon Pleas for the county of 2Vorthaniton, i'o
fohn Penn, Efquire, lamd Goernor of il Province of Pensyizizea;
but he had not receiVed any fich commifflon after the declaration
of Iridependepce, xAor any.notice of that declaration. '
"That th6 faid mortage was afterwards, td 'Wit, on the 34 day
of Nvember, 17.76, r~corded" by Lewis Gordon, Efquire, in the
record book -kept.for recdrding deeds and mortgages in the-laid
county, he,. the faid Lewis. at the declaration of. ntnepondance
being Rec6rder of deeds in-and for the faid couity, and continuing,
as fuch, to do and perform the duties of the faid office, 'until the
faid 3d day of November, and after; but he had received no commitfiert for fo doing after the 4tih day of 7ul, 1776
, That the faid -mortgaged premiffes were atterwards taken in
•e'xecnuion, fet.uip to fale, and fold by the Sheriff ofithe faid county
"to0.J. Bake, under certain conditions,. and at the time of t'
de-,

