041

"".Aa.-s

ruled and adjudged in the

789.

et al. verfusYOuNC.

"JAMES

TUDGMENT being entered by default at the firft term, MNi.fa

J

had obtained a rule to fhew caufe why it fhould not be opened,
upon the affidavit of.athirdperfon, that the Defendant was bed-ridden, and that there was a jut and confcionable defence.
7addafterwards oppofed the a&ion as grounded upon the affidavit
of a thirdperfon.
But BY THaE COURT :-A

third perfon fully acquainted with the

circumirfances ought certainly to be admitted to make the .affidavit of
adefencewhen the party himfelf from extreme, fickn.fs is incapablo
of.making it ; but wh-n he is prerent, and fiibjc& to no difability,
ifis regularly incumbent upon him to do it. This, however, i"a
cafe .under very particular circumfances ; and thejudgment was entered at the firft term. We think, therefore, the judgment ought to
fland as a fecurity ; but that the D.fendarft muff be let into a trial
upon an iffueable plea.

CooPEP. verfus

COATES.

O

NT a rule to fhew caufe, why auditors fhould not be appointed,
under. the Af of AffTembly, the Defendant's depoition was
read, wherein he fwore, that no queflion of depreciation could arif
in this caufe.
BY TIHE COURT.-The words are fo very general and comprehenfive, that, if the fpirit and intention of the law, expreffed in the
preambleandother feaions, were not to be confidered, they would
include every cafe arifing between the periods mentioned in the a&
But it is inconfiflent with the Conflitution, and with juffice, that
the trial by Jury fhxuld be taken away in this ,-_.inr ; a id, therefore, the Courts of Jufice have always dztermincd, that auditors
fhall be appointed only where there is a difpute about the dep. eciation.
The rule difcharged. Hallwrk, for the Plaintiff-erganl,for the
Defendant.
WALLACE

T

furv.part. vs. FITZSIMMONS fp. bail.

HE care was this: He and Harrio/n of fiTrginia being indebted to 9allace and .Tnith, JTallace, as furviving partner of
Smith, itfued a foreign -tt.chment ag:infl them, and attached their
effe&s in the hands of Fitzfinmsns. Judgment was obtained on this
attachment at the third term ; and, afterwards, Fitzfimrnmons entered
.fpecialbail. The caufe then proceeded, till judgment was finally
obtained

