.428,
1789.

CASES -ruled and adjudged in the

In the cafe now under confideration, Mrs. Dorothy Saltar was
feized in fee of the premifes flated in the ejeament; and had fhe
made no conveyance, her fitter, Mary rhopr/on, would have been
her'heir at law; but her hufband, whom fle lovd, withed to enjoy
th6 eftate during his life, and .fhe defigned that her fifter, and her
filter's Children fhould have the eftate uncontrouled by her hufband,
With this view the deeds were executed; and, if the folemn promife and agreement of Lawrence altaris not to be enforced, his
heir at law will have the efate, contrary to the intention of all
parties.
The quetion then is, whether the engagement of Saltar, not being. in writing, although it concerns lands of inheritance, -is void by
the aiS of Afibmbly for'preventing frauds and porjuries ?
We are of opinion, that it is not; and that the parol evidence was
proper to be admitted upon the trial of the caufe. Here was a
breach of truft in Lawrence Saltar, a fraud in law, which is not
within the a&. This is the reafon of our jddgment; a reafon war"ranted by a due conftruqion of tha at,. and an attentive corxfideration of its frame and defign ; which was, not only to guard againft
perjuries, but, alfo, as I have already obferved, againf frauds. It
is to be remembered, that there is no purchafor, bonafid, for a valuable confideration, without notice, in the prefent cafe; the defendant claims under the heir at law of Lawrence Saltar; he ought,
perform what Lawrence fhould have performed; and
therefore,
equity willtoconfider
that as don'e, wjhich ought to have been done;
c. of Law and Equity, 75. Every man's contra& (whereGrounds,
U
ever it ispdllible) fhould, indeed, be performed as it was intended.
The numerous cafes cited, as well as fome determined in this
Court, both before and fince the Revolution (feveral of which ate
in point) all turn upon the fame principle, and are uniformly in
favour of the Plaintiff: And fo many uniform, folemn decifions,
ought to be always ot great weight and confideration, that the law
may be certain. I am glad, indeed, that the prefent motion has
been made, becaufe it has afforded'an opportunity of full deliberation on the fubje&, and of fettling it upon a fatisla6tory and permanent foundation.
With refpe& to thefecond objelion, we are clearly of opinion,
that the verdia was given agreeably to the weight of the evidence.
And, upon the whole, dired, that judgment be entered for the
PlaintiF.
D'UTRICHT verfuS MELCHOR.

T

HIS caufe was tried at bar, in Setember Term, 1788, and, a
verdift being found for the Plaintiff, the Defendant obtained
a rule to fhew cauife why a new trial fhould not'be granted; which
was argued-at the prefent Term by Coxe and Sergeant, in fupport of
the rule, and by Lewis and Hatly againft it.

SUPREM

COURT of Pnnfylvanza.

429

It appeared, that the Plaintiff had bought a tra& of land from the 1789.
Defendant, who had previoufly purchafed it of one Rimpfon; but, L
as, upon enquiry, no land -ofthe defcription contained in the D,fendant's deed to the Plaintiff could be found, this a&ion, which
was an afion f Indehitatus Aumpfit for money hand and received to
the Plaintiff's ufe, was brought, in order to recover back the confideration money that had been paid; and, on the trial, the Defeno.,nt's deed was given in evidence to prove the amount and acknowledgment of fuch payment.
The declaration alto contained a
count in the nature o! deceit; but, by agreement of the Counfel,
it made no part of the argument, whether this could properly be
coupled with the. Affa-;4pfit; fu that the mn'tion for a nefv trial was
fupported only upon thefe grounds -ift, That the a&ion of Af.
fumpfit would not lie; and 2dly, That the deed ought not to have
been given in evidence upon the trial.
For the Defendant, it was contended, that, as there was no fggeflion of fraud to vitiate and annul the original contraa of the
parties, the proper adion was covenant on the words grant, ba,gain, &c. that ;ftnere was fraud, the remedy was an a&ion of'deceit;
that AJfurnzit would not lie ; that if there was any deceit in t, e
words of the deed, ftill
the ation might have been brought upon
the deed itfelt ; that a dted cannot be given in evidence to fupport
an acion of Indebitatus ilffumfit; that there was no proof of a parol Jfumpfit; and that the Defendant could not plead a verdid in
the prefent fuit, in bar to another adion of covenant upon the deed.
See Coin. Dig. I45. letterbf. r. Cewp. 414, 418. 818. 819, Doug.
132.
1 State Laws, 79, i -Salk,2io. Cro. .7.5o6. i RollAbr.
27. 1 Vin. Abr. 277. 2 Black. Rep. 1249. Gilb. L. of E. 18-..
2 kin. I9o.
For the PlaintyT, -it was anfwered, that whenever natural. juffice
implies that the party ought to refund, this a&.on, which is like a
bill in equity, will lie *to.compel him; that the deed was not trie
foundation of the afion, but given in evidence merely to fhew the
amount of the confiderafion money, and the Detendant's acknoNledgment of its being paid; and that the declaration was fupported
.by the precedent in Doug. i8.-See Salk. 22. I Lev. 102, Bull.
N. P. 31. 2 Stra. 915. - LIrd Raym. 742. 2 Burr. io88. Salk.
284.
The cafe being held for fome day- under advifement, the CH IEF
JUSTICe now delivered the opinion of the Court to the following
effe&:
MIKEAN, Cief7uflice.-Iti s unneceffary at this time to determine, whether the Plaintiff might have inftituted an afion of covenant, or deceit, in order to obtain a redrefs of the wrong which
he has fuftained ; for, we think it is fuflicient for his purpofe, that
an acion of Affumpfit for money had and received to his ufe, has
been brought; and that, to maintain, this a6lion, he may give in
evidence, that the Defendant gdt his money by miftake, impofition,
or deceit. To prove the alledged miftake, impofition, or deceit,
deeds

4.30
Z789.
"_.-J

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

deeds or other writings, which are not the immediate foundation
of-the fuit, but only leading-to it, may be read.
We are all, therefore, of opinion, that a new trial ought not to
'ke granted.
Judgment for the Plaintiff.

OXLEY et al. verfus

OLD'DEN.

T

H I Scaufe had been referred, and. the Referees, having examined the evidence in prefence of both parties, agreed upon
their report; but-. about an hour before it was delivered into
Court (though it was figiie..the preceding day) *). B. M'K an, on
behalf of the Defendant, had obtained a rule to fhew caufe, why
the rule of reference thould not be firuck off.
There was no charge of irregularity or partiality againff the Refrees; and, after argument by Lewis for the Plaintiffs, and Ingcrlol
adad .7. Bo M'KAean for the Defendant. the rule to fhew caufe was
difcharged.
And

*M'KEA'\,

Chief

Yuiflice,

obferved, that the motion was

much tob late to annul the reierence, -when the Referces had inveftigated the whole tranfaaion, had agreed upon their report, and
were clear from any imputation of mifcondu&, or any precipitancy
in refutfing to hear the teftimony offered by either party.

LEVINr

verfus WILL.

THIS
aetion was tried at Juy term 1788, when, by confent.
a verdi& was given for the Plaintiff, for the fum of t68 . 57

with fix pence cofts, fubje& to the opinion of te Court on the
following fa&s:- "The Plaintiff executed and acknowledged a mortgage on the 3 d
day.of ptemher 1782, which was recorded on the 3 oth of O17obei-,
1783.. The mortgaged premiffes being fold by the Defendant, then
Sheriff of the city and county of Philadelpbia, the ballance, after
dedu&ing the fum for which the land had been fold, was paid to
the mortgagee. Afterwards, to wit, on the 16th of Yuly,, 1785,
the Plaintiff made-an afflgnmenr of all his property for the ufe of
all his creditors, and the aflignees bring this affion, in b;- name,
to recover the money thus paid over to the mortgagee.
" If the Court thall beof opinionwith the Defend.,ant or theforegoing cafe, then judgment fhall be entered for him; otherwife
judgment to Itand for -the Plaintiff for the fum. fpecified in the
verdi&."
The

