OYER

and TERMINER, &C

at Phdadelhia:
September Seflions, 178p-

RESPUBLICA verfus. MESCA et

r'PHIS wa: an indi&ment againif four Italians for the murder
X of Cap tain Pickles ; and, upon the arraignment of the prifoners, the Court affigned Ingerfol and Sw fi as counfel for them.
Thefe gentlemen then challenged the array, ax-]" moved for an
award of a tales de medietate lingu, ; but the Attorney General controverted the propriety of the motion, and it was twice argued, on
the 25 th and 29 th of September.
The counfel for the rifoners urged, that the Slat. of Edw. 3.
c. T3. was a bexieficial law, encouraging foreigners to come into
the country; that, in pra&ice, it had been extended to Pennfylvania before the revolution, and found policy juftified its continuance. In the courfe of their argument the following authorities
were cited: i Pen. Laws 89. 28. Edw. 3. c 13. 4 Bt. Coin. 352 -.
. to Penn.
l
2H.H, P. C. 271. '272. Dyer 304.. Chart, of Ch.
2 Jils. 75. Salk. 411.
To prove the pra&ice, Tfhomas ClEfford, upon his folemn affirniation,-,eated, that in February 1764, a burglary was committed in
his dnlling .houfe in Philadlpbia; that one Brinkloe, being apprehended upon fupicion, accufed fJf71liamn Frederick Otenreed;
whemoupon they were both imprifoned and tried; and to the bril of

K

74
1783.

CASES

ruled and adjudged in a

the witneffes recolledfion, Oltenreed was allowed to have a moiety
foreigneis on his jury.
The Attornq General obferved, that the queftion turned upon this
point-'how far the Englib flatutes were extended to Pnnrfylvania?
and by what authority they could be extended, whether exclufively
by an af of the Legiflature, or, likewife, by the adjudications of
the fiuprene court ;-The fentiments of the foreign juriits feemed,
he f,:id, to b2 crude and undigefted upon this fubjea ; but certain
principles, which had obtained the authority of a- general affent,
might ferve as a dire&ory to form an accurate judgment. He then
adxerted to feveral a&s of parliament which did not extend, as the
a& of limitations,
-ac.
2. the .28 H, '8., relecrffng Pirates, &c ;*
and urged, that, by the royal charter, the common law, and ftatute
law, relating to felonies were extended ; but that ftatutes merely
relating to the mode-of trial did not extend; on which account,
laws were paffed in that refpc&, foon after the fettlement of the
province.
With refpe& to the flatute immediately in queftion, be contended, that it had never been extended by the legiflature, becaufe
it was thought unnecefflary, and'might often be greatly inconvenient ;
for in every cafe where foreigners were tried, the humane provilion of our laws, which allows them counfel, would then.be defeated.
A trial "pernmedietaten lingua was never granted to Indians, or NAgroes; nor is it, indeed, pretended to have taken place in any more
than once infance ; and that too, rets entirely on the recolie'ion
of a fingle witnefs.

Sof

. The .4ttorney General cited 2 Hawk.

420.

T;i. er Pas247.

Dyer 3c7 . a. Cr0. E. 869. Smith's Hjfl. oNew-York 24. -24-.
-2Pen. Laws..2. I Pen. Laws in App. 318. ltes of Aff. Vol..
go ii. i Pen. Laws 88. 114. 1ldes of AS. ol. 2.
53. 6 . id. in App.
p. 22. 217. 234. Robi7. view Stite ofEurope 395.
"The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court as follows.
M'KEAN, C. .7.The point before the court has been well argued; and, on bill confideration of the fubje&, we now find little
difficulty in pronouncing our decifion. The firft legillature under
the Commonwtalth, has clearly fixed the rule, refpe6'ing the extenion of Briti/h fatutes, by enacating, that "uth ol the fiatutes as
"" have been "inforcein the late province of Pennfylvania, Ihould remain in force, till altered by the Legiliature:" Arid it appears
in evidence, that the 28. Edw. 3. c 13. has been infirce in the ]ate
province, fince a trialpernedietatim lingue was allowed, in the cafe
ot. a burglary committed by one Ottenreed, in the manfion houle of
Mr. Cliffird.
Whether it was intended by the a&, to which I have referred;
to include only fuch flatutes as wert in force, by an exprefs extenfion
of the Legelature; or to comprehend, likewife, fuch ftatutes, as
had been extended by the judgment of thejupreme ccurt, or received
-there in zefage, feems to be, in fome degrce, uncertain. We
"

know

COURT of OrY. and TzuINTER &c. at Phiadlkhia.

75

know, however, that many fiatutes for ndar a.century, have been
pratlit'd awder in the late provinc.-, which were neve: adopted'by
the _groiyature; and that they might be saizitt:d iv v, ige, and fo
become inforrt, was the opinion of the B'rtib parliainnt, declared
ina ftatute palfed in the year 1754, enabling legatees to be witneffes to wills and teftam~nt.
If, therefore, the itatute in queflion. has been, by any means, legally in force; a ne'tlr.y is, feem:ngly, impofed -upon us, to grant the chall,rge to the array, which
has been maddh on thq behalf of,the ptifoners.
But if this was a new care, the judgment of the court would be
dii&rent; for, the reafons which gave r;fe to the 28 E.,"o. 3. do
nut apply to the prefent government, nor to the genera: circurnfrances of the country. Prifoners have here a right to the teftimony
of their witneffes upon oath, and to the afllance of counfel, as well
in matters of faI', as of law; which was not the care in England in
the year 1353, when that ftatute was ena&ed. -We do not think,
indeed, that granting a medietas lingua, will, at all, contribute to
the advancement of juffice; and we know it is a privilege which
the Citizens of Pennfylvania cannot reciprocally enjoy, as, at this
day, there are no juries in any part of Europe, except in the -Bfit./h dominions.
Oa the ground, however, of the precedent which has been
fliewn, we ho!d ourfelves bound, on this occafion, to allow the
challenge, and to grant a trial prmedietatem linguax.

The

1783.

