COURT of COMMON PLEAS of P.biiad pl'a Coun:Y.

375

or could not, recover it from him, will, I think, make no :...erial difference as to the prefent motion.

It mulf, however, be ob-

ferved, that, if he can claim this money at all, it muft be under the
,xecution, and as execution creditors are lived, it would be very
queftionable whether the Commiffioners could rezover it from him.
If they couldnot, then the creditors at large mull be poftponed to
him and the other judgment crdditors ;-if they could recover it,
then it would not only be a vain thing to order the money into his
hands, as he muff, by a circuity of a&ion, be obliged to refund it,
but it would, in fat, be ordering it into the hand; of a perfon not
intitled to receive it: And the confeqtfence would be, that the real
execution creditor, whofe claim is faved by the a&, would infallibly be cut out of his preference.
Whetherthisis, or is not, a hmafide debt, is not the fubje.t of
0ur prefent enquiry. If any fraud could b- proved, this Court
would certainly on motion fet afide b3th the execution and the
judgment, but that could ndt be for the benefit of the prior judgment creditor, whofe claim is found:d u.5an t. cxecutioz ; but for
the benefit of the creditors at larg- tinder the Commilflion; who
may fill have a remedy by a&ion, if they can Ili--w the execution
to have been collufive and unfair.
The only quelhon, however, now betore us, is whether a prior
judgment creditor fhall come in unde.r this excccuion, whizh we
-think he cannot, as it wouJd defeat the exprefs intent of the bankrunt la.2W

M'CLENACEIAN

et al. ve fz s

M'CA'RTY.

"-HIS was a Foreign Attachment, in which judgment was enter-.
I
ed at the third term; and a writ of inquiry 'being afterwards
executed, a motion was made, on behalfof the Defendant, to quafh
the return, becaufe thc Sheriff and Inquell had rafufcd to hear his
evidence at the time of executing the writ.
On the argument the nature of the evidence that had been exciuded, wa- Itated, and Igerfoll, in fup.port of the motion, contended-ift, That, upon giieral principles, both .parti.-s are entitled
to be heard befibre the i'.nqueflc; and that, aith. ugh they arc bound
to find ronie damages, yer, if there is no proof of any being fultained, they will find no more than a tingle penny ; and that merely to
fatisfy the form of the p.-oceeding.
"The writ commands the Inquell diligently tq cnrpir: wL'hat damiaUs c. fo that to inform their
conlciences, they ought certainly to hear the allegations of both
parties; and if they afei' the damages too high, or too low, their
return will be fet afide, which proves that the Court has a fuperintending power over Jurj.s of Inquiry. 2 Lill. Abr. 721. -2. Sayre's
Law c/'Dan1.3. 193 203. 233.
It is a maxim, indeed, that
damges c.Annot b. aiieiied without a Jury. 3 Ri. Com. 395. 396. 7.
and

1788.
-

376
1788.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the-

and it is clear that under the rules at NJ5 Prips, a Defendant may
fubmit to judgment being entered, aid yet conteft the matter before
the Jury of 'Inquiry, fo as to affe& the quantum of damages, for
which the judgment.ihall fiand.-2dly, The cafe of a Foreign dttachment makes no exception to the general rule. In London onlya&ions of debt can be brought within the cuftom ;- fo that the judgThere are
ment being compleat, no damages are to be affeffed.
many other points in which the Czyflom of London differs from the
pra&ice under our attachment law. Lands, and, in fhort, every
other fubje& of property, are liable in Pennfylvania to an attachment; being as much fo in his abfence, as the Defendant's perfon
would be, it he were here. But the Crflba of London proceeds only
oni the fuppofition of a debt due from the Garniffiee to the Defendant. Hence the analogy between the cuiftom there, and our practice, is very trifling., The a& of Affembly does not prefcribe a
writ of intquiry; nor does the Freeholders law, upona judgment by
default aftzr fummons; vet, in*both cafes, writs of inquiry are uriformly ifflued to affefs damages; and for the plain reafon already
affigned, that damages cannot .be affefled without the interventiun
of a Jury. Befides, it has been the uniform pra&ice under the
attachment law to give notice of executing the writ; which neceffarily implies a right to controvert the quantum of damagcs; and the
queftion is not whether the evidence, would have availed, but
whether it ought to have been heard.
I 7 /ionand ,iPlcocks for the Plaintiffs.-It is in the power of the

Defendant to appear, and entitle himfelftoa trial in Court; but it
would be unjuit in this manner to permit him to draw the decifion
Admitting,
of an important quellion from the proper tribunal.
however, that the law is what the Defendant's counfel ftates', where
a party is complete!y in Court, and'afterwards fuffers judgment to
go by default, it is not applicable to the cafe.of an attachment, the
The cufloin of Louobjc& of which is to compel an appearance.
don, which is certainly the ground-work of our attachment law, admits no fuch privilege as the Defendant.no.w claimns. In London
the Plaintiff-is not obliged to execute a writ of inquiry, or to prove
his debt in Court, but merely to fwear to-it; nor does any expreffion'in our a& ofAffembly enjoih the execution of a writ of inquiry; but that, as well as the notice in office, depends entirely upon
ufage; for, the only trial men'tioned in thea-t ison thefcirefucias
between the Plaintiff and Garnifhce. Noi" does the Legillature precipitate the caufe: jtrdgment cannot :e entered 'till the third term, and
twelve months afterivards are.given to obtain a trial uponthe merits.
In this"adion, likewife, the Plaintiff ac'qires no general lien by his
only ifiiie execution againft
judgment, as in other zi&lons, bu( ian
the property attached ' fo that, -upon th whole, there can be no
reafon, on principles ofiequity, that the Defendan'fhould be heard
without putting in fpecial. bail. The Freholdeis a&-can furnifh
ioargument; for thz law in that cafe, profcribes a mode by which
the

COURT of COMM ON PLEAS of PhiladIphiaz County.

377

the Defendant fhall be brought into Court; but, in an atta:hment,
the Defendant is nev c in Court until bail is filed,
SHirPEx, _Prefident.-Thisis a motion to ret afide the 'inquifition of a Jury of Iqquiry in a foreign attachment, on the ground of
the De-fendant's evidence being refufed to be heard before the Sheriff
and Inqueft, on the execution of the writ of inquiry.
On the part of the Plaintiffs two points have been made and
argued:ift, That on the pxecution of writs of Inquirygenerally, no
evidence on the part ol the Defendant ought to be heard, as
by fuffering. judgment- to go by default, he had admitted the
Plaintiffs 'caufe of aiion; and that, therefore, evidence on
the part of the Plaintiffs only fhould be heard.
2ly, Tnat, although it were admitted, that, generally, on ccuting writs of Inqiiry, after an interlocutory judgment,
fuch, evidence might be heard; yet, in thofe cafes where writs
of Inquiry are executed to afcertain the Plaintiff's demand,
after judgments on foreign attachments, no fuch evidence fhould
be admitted; becaufe the foreign attachment iffues -only to
compel an appearance, and the Defendant has it in his power,
even after the return of the Inquifition, by entering fpecial
bail, to try the caufe in the ufual manner, before a Court
and Jury.
As to the firf point, the law feems fettled, that, after a judgment
by default, the Defendant has a right to offer his evidence to the
Jury of Inquiry to combat the Plaintiff's proofs; and that where theSheriff refufes to hear the evidence on both fides, the Court will
dire& a new writ of Inquiry.
As to thefecond point, it will be neceffary to confider the law of
attachments of r7o5, and the pra&ice under it, together with th.
reafons and extent of that pra&ice.
The Legiflature, in framing this a6E, certainly took for their
,model the Cuft or of London, concerning foreign atttchments; the
principles of the law and mode of proceeding are in many refpe&s.
canformable to that Cuftom; and the difference appears to be lefs
in the a& itfelf, than in the pra&ice under it. In Londn the proceedirig is by plaint againft the Defendant, fupported by the oath of
the Plaintiff On this is founded the attachment and proceedings
againrf the Garnifhee; but no further proceeding is had againif the
Defendant till he enters fpecial bail, and then a declaration is filed
and a trial had in the~ufual way. The pra&ice wider dur a& is firt to
obtain judgment againft the Defendant, then to file a declaration
againft him according to the -nature of the demand; if in debt, the
jludgment flands for the fum declared for, without even an oath to
fupport it; if in care, a writ of Inquiry iffues for a Jury to afcertain the demand, and then the feire facia. iffues agaiufi the Garnifhee. No a&ual Notide is given to the Defendant of the execution of the writ of Inquiry ; his attendance is never expeaed, and
is.
Bbb

1788.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

3
1788.
-

is in molt cafes impollible. It feems to be a mode adopted, not
for a trial of the merit-, but only to conform to the nature of an
a6lion on the cafe, which requires a Jury of Inquiry to afcertain
thefum for which execution is to iffue; and it may be confide red as
a proceeding to inform the confcience of the Court, in the room of
the fuppofed oath in the aaion of debt. In its nature it appears
to be an ex parte proceeding; and not within the reafon of the rules
in executing writs of Inquiry on Judgments by default; where the
Defendant has regular notice, and has no other opportunity ofmaking a defencei
.The attachment law, and all proceedings under it, fuppofe the
Defendant to be an abfent perfon, and he ,,as, in trutb, no day ;n
6,urt, till lie enters fp~ecial bail, and thereby diffolves the attachment; ox comes in afterwards, when the money is recovered from
the Garnifliee, to difprove the debt, which is done by afcirefacias
ad disprbandum debilum; in either of which cafes, he puts the Plain.tiff upon the legal proof of his deijiand, and- is admitted to make a
full defence. The right of making that defence before the Jury of
Inquiry has no foundation either ;nfthe aa or the pra6lice under
it.
, t'rhe law fuppofes, from his abfence, that he is then incapable
of making a defence; and, for that reafon, hIas afforded him ample
time and opporturity afteiwards to do it; nor does ik accord with
legal ideas, that he fhould have this opperuwity of tryirg his caufe,
.niid alfo another afterwards upon entering fpecial bail.
•R has been faid, that notice of executing thefe writs of Inquiry
his been ufually fet up in the Prothonotary's and Sheriff's Offices;
and that thi notice would be vain, if the party might not appear and
make his defence. This pra&ice of putting up notices. mulf have
:been in'troduced by the Gentlemen of the Law ex majore cautela.
If it were a new cafe, we fhould perhaps think it nugatory; as a
perfon abroad cannot be fuppofed to take notice of a paper put
up in the office, which he could never fee. However, as it is the
pra&ice, it is proper it flould be continued; and it may, at leaft, ferve
the purpofe of giving the Garnilhee, or the Attorney in fac, of
the Defendant, an opportunity of knowing, and :.,,.izing his conflituent, of the nature of the Plaintiff's demand, .-at- he may be
prepared to defend himfelfagainit it.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, that the refufing, to admit
the Defendant in the attachment to produce his evidence before the
Jury of Inquiry, is not a fuikient reafon for fetting afide the InRule difcharged.
q
o

PENRosE

verfus

HA R.

N a rule to fhew caufe why the Judgment confeffed by warrant of Attorney in -this cafe fhcuid not be opened, Ft/her
flated that feveral partial paymentshad been made by the Defendalt,
which
O

