SUPREME COWT of Pennfylvan:'a.

REsPUBLICA.

T

verfus

335

TMsCHER.

HE Defendant had been conviaed in the county of Berks upon

an indi6tment for malicioufly, wilfully, and w.ckedly killing a
Horfe; and upon a motion in arreft of Judgment, it came on-to be

argued, whether the offence, fo laid, was indictable ?
Sergeant, in fupport of the motion, contended that this was an

injury of a private nature, amounting to nothing more than a Trefpafs; and that to bring the cafe within the general rule of indi&ments
they could be judged and afcertained. He did not-, therefore, intend to purfue Mr.
Lewis, in the tera& of legal difquifition ; but, appealing confidently to the infirumeat itfelf, he deemed it to be his duty to pronounce, that the decifion of the fu.
preme court was a deviation from the fpirit and the letter of the frame of government. In doing this, he obferved, that he did not mean to affert, that any ground
h1-d been fhewn for the impeachment of the judges. But, on the contrary, he
agreed with Mr. .. ewi,, that bribery, corruption, or a wilful and arbitrary infra&ion of the law, were tbe only true cauifes for inftituting a profecution of that
nature; and his candor readily inaluced ;i t2 believe, that as none of thefe had
been proved, neither did any of them adually exift on ohi- --cafion. Put, he faid 5
it was due to the dcareft iaterefs of pofterity, that the legiflature lhouid aet with
that circunifpedlion, fhould decide with that wifdom, which, leading on the one
hand, to an acquittal of the judges, did not tend, on the other, to eflablh a baneful and deflrudtive precedent. It was in this point of view, that the prefcnt proceeding prefented itfelf to his mind, asa matter of the greateft magnitude and importance ; and he faid it were better far that Mr. Ofivald had fulfered in filenceand
obfcurity, than that the attention of the legiflature fhould be awakened, only to
give additional ftrength and authority to the milcaken judgment of the court.
That it was a miftaken judgment, every man, he alledged, who poffeffed a cozrpetent fhare of common fenfe, and underfiood the rules of grammar, was able to'
determine on a bars perofal of the bill of rights and confitution. With thefe aids,
he defied all the fophiftry of the fchools, and the jargon of the'law, to' pervert*or
corrupt the explicit language of the text ; and therefdre he regretted, that ia
liftening to-the ingenuity of Mr. Lewis's piraphrafe, his admiration was not necef-.
farily followed by convidlion.
He then difcufled the 9fe62. of the bill of rights, which provides, "that in all
" profecutions for criminal offences a man bath a right to be heard by hitnfelf and
his council, to demand the caure and nature of his accufation, to be confronted
" with the witnefes, to call for evidence in his favour, and a f'eedy public trial,
by an impartial jury of the country, without the unanimous confent of which
jury he cannot be found guilty, nor can he be compelled to give evidence againft
" himfelf, nor can any man be juftly deptived of his liberty e:icept by the laws of
"the land or the judgment of his peers."
He faid, that'in thefeexpreffiofis there
was nothing ambiguous or uncertain; they contained a recapitulation of the ihaoft
valuable privileges, in the moft'pofitve language; and they did not require to be
illuftrated, or explained, by the Roman inftitutions, or the Brit(/h pradlice. Hither,
le obferved, every man could fafely refort, in order to be taught the nature and
extent of his rights and obligations ; and it would be fatal indeed to the caufe of
liberty, if it was once eftablilbed, that the technic.l learning of a lawyer is neceifary
to comprehend the principles laid down in this great politiGal compa& between
the people and their rulers. Even with refpe& to that claufe on which the proceedings of the Judges -re particularly vindicated, he did not perceive a reafonable
ground for the diindlion tha, was attempted; but thought with many drhcr
charaders of fuperior informwior and abilities, that the law of the land was not, in
fa&, contra-diftinguifhed from th," :-'ment of his peers, but merely a diverlity in
the mode of expreffing the fame th'ing.
He admitted, however, that cil'es did
cxift in which it was necetTary, for the fake of'juftice, to empower the judges to
*xcrcife a fummary authority.
For outriges committed in the face of the crurr,
fer

1788.

336
1789.

CAsl s ruled- aneT adjudged in the

ments for the proteaqfon of fociety, it was effential that the injury
fihould be ifated to have been perpetratedfcretly, as well as maliciojfy; which, laft he faid was a word of mere form, and capable of
an indefinite applicition to every kind of mifchief.I To fhew the
leading diflin&ion between Trefpaffes, for which there is a private
remedy, and crimes for which there is a public profecution, he
cited Hawk, P4 Cr. 210. lib. 2. c. 22. f 4. And he contended that
the principle of feveral cafes, in Which it was determined an indi&ment would.not lie, applied to the cafe before the Court. 2 Strao

793 x Sira. 679.

The

for the tnifcondua of its officers, and for a difobedience or refiftance of its procsfs,
there reemed, he faid, to be a propriety in eftablilhing an immediate remedy. But,
this did not extend, in his opinion, to the cafe of conilrudtive contempt; to crimoinal offences perpetrated out of the view of the court : nor to fuch azs, as in
their nature, did not call for a fudden punifhment, and which, in their operation.
uRvolved a variety of fa&s, that a jury was only compeecnt to inveflligatc and determine.
With refpe& to the argument offiered by Mr. Lewi, that as athtraments had iffued in .Pnnfyl ant'a
before the revolution; and as the 24fea. of the conflitution,
declares, that the courts hall have all the powers which they ufbally exercifed,
therefore the power of proceeding by Attachment is confirmed, Mr. Findlty obferved,
that the fallacy of this interpretation would be notorious, by recolledling that the
laft fentence of that very fedtion flipulates, that fuch powers fhall not be inconfiftent
with the conlitution.
Nor would he admit the inference which had been
drawn from .the next fedlion, that lays, - trials fhall be by jury as heretaoore;" for.
he flaid, it appeared by its context and immediate fubje&, that it related to the
forms and modes of proceeding upon the trial, and not to the cafes in which the
trial ought to be allowed.
Having expatiated, with great energy, upon the different points of the conflitution, which the fubje% brought into view; having-afferted the right of every man
to publifh his fentiments on public proceedings; and having urged the danger of
permitting the judges, by implication, to panifli for' offences againft themfelves
(.obferving, that if it was a contempt to write, it was alfo a contempt to fpeak of
a caufe depending in the courts) he concluded with intimating, that he fhould take
an opportunity of fubmitting a refolution to the houfe, which might ferve to avert
the pernicious confequences of allowing the cafe of Mr. Oswald to grow into precedent.
Mr. Fityzms,
m,
member frozp the city of Philadelphia,now noved the following
refolntion.
" Refolved, That this houfe, having, In a committee of the whole, gone into a.
full examination of the charges exhibited by Eleazer O, wald, of arbitrary and oppreflive proceedings in the jufices of the fupreme court againfb the laid .lecazer
Ojwld, are of opinion, that the charges are unfapported by the teflimony adduced,
and, conflequently, that there is no juft cailfe for-impeaching the Laid junices."
The propofition contained in this refolution, gave rife to a Ihort but animated
converfatioa. On the one hand, it was aid, that, in admitting that there was no
ground of impeachment, it was not intended to concede , that the fadts reprefented
in the memorial had not been proved : and, on the other hand, it was anfwered,
that, if there had been proof that the m emorialift, according to the complaint,
"1was immured in prifon, without even the hadow of a trial, for an imaginary of!' fence." it would have been the indifpenfable duty of the legiflature to vote for.
gn impeachment. A compromife, at length, took place, and the committee o!
the whole agreed to report the following refolution.
,'Refolved, That ths charges exhibited by Mr. .leazer O4wald againft the.
juflices of the fupreme court; and the teflinsony givenin fupport of them, are not
a fufficient ground for impeachment."
But when this report was called up for the decifilon of the houe, it was puftponcd
(and Cbnfe(uently loft) on motion Of Mr. Clymer, 'in order to introduce the refolution

SUPREME COURT of Pennfylvanhr.

337

The Atlorney General obferved, in reply, that though' he had not
been able to difcover any inftance of an inditment at common law, for killing an animal, or, indeed, for ny other fpecie" of malicious

mifchief; yet, that the rea'fon of this was probably the early interference of the ftatute law to puniih offences of fuch .enoimity ; .for;
that in alf the precedents, as well aatient.as .modern, -he had found
.thecharge laid contraformamfldtuti, except in the cgfe of an information for'killinga dog ;-upon which, howeveir, .ie did, ot mean
to rely.. iz1Mod. 337.
He faid, that the law proceeded upon principle, and not merely
upon precedent. In the cafe of WPade for embezzling the public money, no precedent was produced; and one Henry .Shalcriswas lately condemned inMontgomery county, for maliciouJly burning a barn,
(not having hay or corn in it)though there was ceriainly no ftatute for
punifhingan offence of that defcription in PennfylvanLa. The prin'ciple, therefore, is, that everv a& of a public evil example, and againfi good morals, is an offence indi&able by the common law ;
and this principle affe&s the killing a horfe, as much, at leafi, as
the burning an empty barp.
But, he contended, that there were many private wrong.h',ck
were punifhable by public profecution.; and that with refpe& to
thefe a diftinellon had been accurately .eftablifhed in- 2 Barr, 1129.'

where it is raid, that

"

in fuch impofitions or deceits where common

:prudence mhy guard perfons againift the fuffering from them, the

offence is not indifable, but the party is left to his civil remedy
"for
Mr. FindIr, then
tien originally prnpofed by Mr. .F;tzfjmons in the comnittee.
claimed the attention of the members, and after a judicious introdudion, prefented
the following refolutions to thc chair, to fupercede Mr. Clymer'x motion.
ItRefolved, That the proceedings of the fupreme 4ourt againft Mr. Eteazer Os-

wvald, in punithing him by fine and imprifonment, at thdr diferetiun, for a confiraitive or implied contempt, not committed in the prefence of the court, nor
zgainft any officer, or order thereof, but for writing and publifhling improperly,
or indecently, refpeding a caufe depending before the fupreme court, and rcfpe&Log fome of the ju'dges of faid court, was an unconflitHtional exercife of judicial
power, and fet, an alarming precedent, of the moil dangerous confequence, to the
citizens of this commonwealth."
" Refolved, That it be fpecially recomnmended to the enfuing General Affembly,
to define the nature and extent of contempts, .and dire& their punilhrneot."
An interefting debate *rife upon thefe refolutions, in the courfe of which, much.
that had been faid in the cnmmittee was repeated, and many new ideas were fuggelled, upon the general queftion of the jurifdidtion of the court in cafes of attachment. With refpe& to Mr. ?indley': propofitions, that gentleman ably fupported
them upbo the fpirit
of the cgnlitution, and the expediency of -the thing itfelf.
But it feemed to be fatisfadorily anfwered by Mr. &4e-vi,, ift. Tbst the legiflative.
power is confined to mahing the law, and cannot interfere ,in the .inferpretariox ;
which is the naturalavd extlufive province of the judicial branch of the government :
and adly, That the recommendation to the fucceeding 4ffembly would be nugatory ;
for the courtsof julice'dcrive their.powers from the conlitution5 a fource para-.
mount to the legillatare ; and, confequently,,what is givend.6 them by the former,
cannot be taken from them by "the latter.
Mr. Rndley's motions were loft by a confid.rable majority; and Mr., Ctimet's
NayYeas 34.
revived reolutioh,.adopted by the houfci

CASES

zl 88.

ruled and adjudged in the'

it for the redrefs of the injury that has been done him; but where
'" falfe weights and meafures are ufed, or falfe tokens produced, or
" fuch methods taken to cheat and deceive, as peole cannot by any
" ordinary tare or prudence be guardcagainfl, there it is an offence
indi&able."-Accordingly in C"rown Cirt. Comp. 23"1 - i ra.
595. S. C Crown Circ. Comp. 24. are cafes of private wrongs,
and yet punifhed by indiament; becaufe, as it is faid in Burrow,
common prudence could not have guarded the perfons againft the injury and inconvcniency, which they refpeffively fuftained. The
fame reafon mt. have prevailed in an indi&metn At Lancafler (the
draft of which remains in the precedent book of the fucceflive Attornies General elf this State) for poifoning bread, and giving it to fome
chickens; and itapplies in full force to the cafe before the Cotrt.
Independent, however, of thefe authorities and principles, the
Jiry have found the killing to be fomething more than a trefpafs ;
and that it was done malicioufty forms the go/f of the indi6lment ;
which muft be proved by the profecutor, and might have been controverted -and denied by the Defendant. Being therefore charged.
and found by .he verdi&, it was more than form ; it was matter of
fubflance.
The opinion of the Court was delivered on the 5 th of 7uly, by
the CrlEF JUSTICE.

M'KEAN, Chief 7uflice. The Defendant was in'Iiqed for
imalicioufly, wilfully, and wickedly killing a horfe," and being
ronviaed by the Jury, it has been urged, in arreftofJudgment,
.%hat this offence was not of an indi&able nature.
It i.s true, that on the examination of the cafes we have not
found the line accurately drawn ; but, it feems to be agreed, that
whatever amounts to apub&c-wrong may be made the fribje& of ani
indi&ment . The poifoning of chickens; cheating with falfe dice;
fraudulently tearinga promiflory hote, and many other offences of a
fimilar defcription, have heretofore been indicted in Pennfjylvania;
and 12 Mcd. 337. furnifhes the cafe of an indiclment for killing a
dog;-an animal of far lefs value than a horfe. Breaking windows
by throwing flones at them, though a fifflcierit number of perfons
were not engaged to render it ariot: and the embezzlement of public monies, have, likewife, in this,State been deemed puhic Wrongs,
for which the private fufferer was not alone entit led to redrefs ; and
unlef!; indeed, an indi6fment would lie, there are fome very heinous offences, which might be perpetrated with abfolute impunity;
fince the'rlles of. evidence, in a civil fuit, exclude the teftimony of
the party injured, though the riature ot the tranfaeion generally
makes it impoffible to produc6 any other proof.
For thefe reafons, therefore, and for many others wiich it is unnecefPary to recapitulatei as we eiltertain no doubt upon the fubjea,
we think, the indi6tment will lie.
Let judgment be entered for the Conn,, nwe',tk,,

