COURT of-COMMON PLEAS of Piljladlphla Ch*nty.

379

which fhe Plaintiff had applied firft to the difcharge of the arrearages of intereft; whereas he infifted, that it ought firft tohaye been
dedu&ed from the principal debt.
But SH PE5, Preaident, faid, that thepraice had been otherwife;
and he thought with great reafon and propriety. He remembered
to have heard of an old decifion when Logan was Chikf.7ul/ice, in
which it was exprefsly fettled, that money paid an account of a
bond, fhould firtl be applied to difcharge the intereft due at the
time of the payment, and the refidue, if any, creaited towards fa.isfaclion of the principal. By this rule, the Gentlemen of the
Bir had uniformly governed their calculations before the Revolution.
Lewis, for the Plaintiff, infifted that the praaice was the fame at
the prefent day, and appealed to. the Attornies in Court, who confirmed his afferion. *

0NIEL

verfus

Ci!w.

F

OREIGN Attachment.-The Defendani's intereft being attached in a Shallop, Levy, aftcr filing a pofitive affidavit of the
debt, moved, at the firft terni, that the Shallop might be fold, as a
perifhable commodity: And the motion was accordingly granted.
ELLIOT

verfus

ELLIOT.

T

HERE was an agreement filed in this a&ion to.refer the mat-;
ter in difpute to one Levii; but in the official rule, by miftake of the Clerk, the name inferred was Lewis.
After report, Sergeant moved to amend the rule by the agreement
filed: and leave was accordingly given.
WiAVER

verfus

LAWRENCE.

'1HERE had been a levy upon lands by virtue of a Fi. fa. iffued
.L in this cafe, returnable to the prefent term ; and now, on
Levy's motion, the inquifition, which had been been held upon the
value of the lands, was quathed.
It then became a queffion, whether a new Fi.fa. muff be iffued;
or whether the Sheriff might proceed, after the return of the former
writ, to take ;! new inquilition without further procefs P
SHIPPEN, Prefident.-I cannot perceive any thing in the aa of
Aflembly which precludes the Sheriff from nolding an inqueft after
the return of the Fi.fiz; and I have always under1tood it to be the
pral ice
B bb
£2 4.
'CS ant.

-

