HIGH COURT of ERRORS and
APPEALS of Pennylvania:
Septembir Seflions, I786.

ImvrAi,

cF et al. verfts ANrus.

"'MIS was an Appeal from the Court P1 AdmiraJl.
It was
X argued on the 7 th and 8th of '.u~y by ,ewis, "Y7corks, and
&erg~antfor the Appellants ; and by Bradfor, Ingerf'd, and A ilfon.for the Refpondent. The Court held the matter fob fometime
pnder advifement, in hopes that a compromife would have taken
place beiween the parties i but on ihe 27 th.ofSrPtekrar Ti 4;HIF1
JUSTI CF, delivered the following judgrzlent.
f
~ufi.-I will
whi ftte the cafe as it appea.rs beM'KAN,
fore the Court from the proceedings, and the evidence, which are
not controverted on either fide
and fTall- then taken notice of
thofe points which have been di (puted.
Th Appellants on the 28th day of .Iugujl 1779, were owners
of a Brigntine, called the Hibernia, then riding 4t anchor in the
port of Pbiladlphia, and appointed the Rcfpondeni Tnaffer and comWander, on a voyage from thence to Oratavia in the igfland of Yener#, having a commilion as a Letter of Mart and Reprifal. The
owners, in the -filing orders then delixred to the Refpondent,
(among other things) "ad ifed h-n to keep company with the
armed vefrels bound to the Eaftward as fr as hejhbudthini it prudent;
and that flopid they agree to cruize two or three weeks on the
c6aft, he ad their approbationin joiing with them." The Refpon-

gent failed on his intended voyage, and in the river Dlawartjoined
the

HIH COURT of ERRORS and APPEALS of Pennfylvania.

191

the Brigantine Achilles, whereof George Thompfon was mailer, and 1786.
the Patty, whereof John Pro, was mafter, each having a commif- L
fion of Letter of Mart; and about the ift of September following they
proceeded to fea in company, ftanding to the Eaf'ard.
On the 6th of 4'etember in the forenoon a firing of cannon was
heard by people on board the Achillej and Patty, and in the afternoon
the .4cbilks and Patty had altered their courfi, and, being fwifter
failors than the Hibernia. left her at fome didance ; they then waited for her, and when the came up, the inquired the reafon of their
altering their courfe, and wa informed, that they had feen two fail
and given them cnafe. At this time the two veffels were not in fight,
the Achilles and Patty having waited for the Hiberdauntil they were
loft: They all three then continued the fame courfe until the morning, when at day light two veiltls were defcried, lying clofe together,
by each of the maiers of the three Brigantines, who forthwith
n:ade towards them; and the dchilles and -'atty, -after firing a few
gui. took po lilion of a Brigantine, called tme Beley, which hadc
been a Brit/h veuil. bound trom &Jonyerratfor 'w-2"ork, (which
places were th,.u po'1el.d by the Ene:iiy) and ws captured the day
k/ire by tie Argo loop ofwa, belonging to tl'e Un~ted Sfaes, Silas Tajun6hure the Hibernia was a few"
hot, Ejqui're, Comrtmande'r. At mnis
the
miles ail~ern of the other Br" 'antmnes, and when the came up,
pth
ca,
...
.....
iepneta ed " S what veilIltn..
they had brought too ?" and was
anfwered, "a Brig from .otferrat bound for A'w-Yor ; a good
with the Captains of
prize." In confeqence of fome converfation
the two other velIels, the Refpondent failed in purfuit of the Argo,
then in fight, and did not rejoin them, until near fun-fett, when a
boat cane along fide from the Paty, and alked for men to adf in
navigatmg the. Betfy into fome port:. The Ref~pondent immediat. y
AM'.Adi,
for Lfgilliam
the boat, Prize-ailer,
and figned Orders
put
nien intoappointed
there
contained
which
hadbeen
who two
Egg-harbour,
words,
yo u, if yoor
fallin in with
Alr o Delinware,
SLOO into
fif potlible
o he
fearher
for get
Cheeeak,"to
go to ev-England;" and "beg of Maleilto land to the Southward this night and irive hard for Philadelphia." Thefe orders are
dated "the 7th Sfe ber 779, at tea on board the Brigantine Patty," and were figned ifirit by ohn Pole and George Tfhomp n. So tat
.the fa&s are agreed.
Mr. dllam Davis, who was a pale-nter on board the Patty,
fwears, "that he verf believes, the firing of cannon on the 6th about
ten o'clock in the forenoon, was heard on board the ibernia, and
that the people on board each of the three brigs aw two veltels
Tly ; that
engaged in fight, for that he heard and faw them diflin
the three lay becalmed within hale of each other th ththe Argo and
Be"ny were then about three leagues difant from the three Brigs
and that the firing continued ore thaannhour." He 6urther-is
ard 1rol and Thornfoe had a confulhfpondent
pofitive, that the R
tation. La Jis prefence, abouE the orig Eej.'y, xhether the was prize
or

CAsr.S ruled and adjudged in the
1786
L..

or not; and that they concluded to fecure her as a prize, as they
difbelieved what had been faid by JP'fl and Church about her being
prize to the Argo, or itahe was, yet, as they had been in fight at
the timiie of the capture, they were intitled to a harc. Thefcefa&s
are alfo corifirmed by the depofition of .7ohn Groves.
On behalf of the Refgondcnt, the depofitions of. ohn Brice, firft
N,1ate of the Hibernia, fohn lagii, George Stout, George Eldridge
and A,;'n A,bridge, marners on board, and ot Do6tor JXi~lon
ats, Surgeon of the Hi ernia, prove, that they did not fee the
Ago and Beffey, nor hear any firing of cannon, on the 6th of September, and that neither Captains Prole nor Thompfon were on board
ale -ibernia on the 7 th, nor was the Refpondent on board of either
of their veffels, In which lkft particular ,Davisand Groves concur,
Thefe ,itnefies alfo diffier with Davis and GrVes, about the hour
that the Hibernia failed in purfuit of the Argo, the duration of the
chafe, and the time of her return and rejoining the other Brigs.
It has alfo been given in evidence, that a fuit had been initituted
in the Admiralty by Captain Silas Talbot quitarn &c. againft the
-owners of the three Brigantines, for the fpoliAtion of the etey and
her cargo, who, upon an Appeal to this Court were decreed to pay
II1,141. 5. 4. damages to the Libellant, befides the colts, of
which fum the prefent Appellants, as owners of the Hi4ernia, paid
Z,3,795- 3. 6. and towards colts
on the 22d January 1785. *
Upon this itate of the cafe, two Oneffions arife;---The ilt of
faR ; the 2d of law.
i. With refpe& to thefad7, there are two points, i tl.
Whether
the Refpondent did willingly join the two other Captains Prole and
Yihompfon, in the tortious capture of the Betfey from the Argo, knowing her to have been a prii!e to the Argo, and that the Jrgo was a
friend? This would undoubtedly have been a lata culpa, an evident
trefpafs, to call it by no harfher name.
If he did not, then 2dly, Whether he was guilty of fuch grofs
n gIgence (crafanegligentia) as by law will make him refponfible to
the Appellants, confidering the relation between them as owners
2nd mailer of a veffel ?
As .to the ift point, the evidence is not fo fatisfa~Lory as might
be wifhed in a cafe of fuch confequence to the parties Had there
b.cn evidence given refpe~ting the credit of the feveral witneffes,
the matter would have been clearer. If Davis and Groves are to be.
credited, in addition to the other evidence, there is a very ftrong
prefumption indeed, that the Refpondent is guilty of a great wrong,
of a clear trefpafs ; for if he Taw the fight oh the 6th, as he next
day found that the Befrey, which had been captured, was an enemy,
he mult have concluded, that the Argo was a friend. And if all
that the other witneffes fwear in behalf of the Relpondent, is true,
yet I do not think, that the evidence of Davis and Groves is thereby
invalidated.
Viti refpe& to hours or times, in which particular
occurrences or trahfalions happened, witnefles of the greqteft integrity
.-See dnt.

1

- 1GM

COURT

(f

ERRORS

and APPEALS of Pennyfv4a;ia,

183

regrity may and often do differ: This has happened in the caufe
before us, But as to other matters, the witnefes on boatd the Hihernia only fwear, " that they did net fee nor hear, what the others
fay, they did." The rule in fuch a cafe is, " that one atfirmative
witnefs countervails the proof of many negative, becanfe both may
fwear true," and fuch'interpretation fhould be put on the whole telL.
timony, as to reconcile it; for, one may fee and hear what another
does not. Gilb. Law of Evidence 157. However, it does not appear neceffary to determine this firft point, as the fecond quellion
admits of little difficulty, viz. Whether the Refpondent has been
,uilty of fuch grs negligence as ihould make him refpcnlible ?
The Refpondent was near to the Beney, as v@ell -as the two other
Letters of Marque ; he might have gone on board her, and made
every neceilnry and proper inquiry ; he fent two of his crew on,
board her, to get her if poilible into Delaware &c. he figned the
order to P'Neil, the Prize-mafter, which mull have fihewn, to perteet conviaion, that the Belfey had been oaptured by the A4rgo, and
that fhe was a friend. But it is faid, that he confided in Prole,
whom they had made Commodore, and in Tiomnpfon; that they deceived him ; and that he ligned the orders to the Prize-mailer
without reading them; and, in fhort, that he implicitly obeyed, and
did whatever he was told to do. The Refpondent fhould have refle&ed, that the feizing a valuable veirel and cargo was a feriots
piece of bufinefs, if belonging to a friend ; he fhould therefore have
weighed the confequences of his credulity in others; he could have
inquired for himfelf, and had the fame evidence with Pro? and
1bhorpfon ; he fliould have confidered, that his owners placed their
confidence in him,_ and in no other; he fhould have a&ed for himfelt, and taken cre that he did no fiury to any one. But he does
not appear, by the defence made forhim, to have exercifed his own
judgment at all. Vas this uling proper care and diligence, or was
it inexcufable condu&, and grofs negligence ?
Let us now confider the law upon this evidence ; for, exfa ao critur lex. .Itis agreed, that every one of the parties to a trefpafs,
who participates in it, is a trefpaffer, and an a6liorl will lie againft
him as a principal ; for, there can be no acceflary to a trelpafs :
Bro. trefpajs, ph ii3. I Lev. 124. that a trefpafs was committed in taking and carrying away the Betfey from the Commander
of the Argo; that the Refpordent was prefent, aiding and affliting
in the taking and carrying her away: and that Captain Silas Trlbot
could have maintained his fuit againft the Refpondent, as well as
againfl: his owners, for the wrong and injury they have done to him.
Bur, it- is contended, that thougoh he nmight be refponfible to Captain YTalbot, he is not fo to his owners, for that his relation with
them was by contra&, and the contra& between a fervant and his
mafter, or between a Captain of a thip and his Owners, points out
the meafure of the Servant's or Captain's refponfibility; that he
ought not to be accountable in damages for an error in judgment,
but only for thefaul ofThe heart, and that he aated according to the
beft

r7-6

184
17E6.

CASRs ruled and adjudged in the

beft of bis judgment ; and his error in this bufinefs arofe from the
/ -ifiniormation and deception of Prole and Thompfon. In fupprt
of this do&rin. were cited t Blackfl. Corm. 422. 389. 3 B1. Cor,.
z63. 3 Bac. Ahr. 544. 564. 4Co. 83. 84.
o M d. lo9
4
Burr. 2o6o. ti Mod. 135.
In reply to this, it has been agreed, that the maier or commander of a Privateer or Letter of Marque may lawfully ftop the fhip of
a friend, examine her papers, the people on boar-d the cargo &c.
in order to difcover, whether fhs belongs to a Friend, or an*Enemy ;
and if upon the whole it fhould be doubtful, to bring her into port,
for further infpe&ion and trial, without breaking bulk, or imbezzlement of the lading. But if the captor imbezzled the cargo, difpofed of or ufed any part of it, fent away the captured mariners, or
did any other a~Ls, which fhew-he could have no reaona Le doutt, in
fuch cafe he is liable for damages and coils. Lee on Captures 202.
240. Beawes L. M. 207. 1 Rolls Akr-. 530.
It is infiied upon, that a maiter of a fhip is one, who for his
knowledge in navigition, fidelity and difcretion, hath the governInent of the Ihip committed to his care and management; that lie
mult give an account for the whole charge, and, upon failure, render fatisfaaion: And, therefore, if misfortunes happen, if they are
either through the negligence, wilfulnefS or ignorance of himfelf, or mariners, he mufl be refponfible; and his owners may.fue him for reparation of damages, jointly' or fepirately, both according to the
common law, and m .rine law. See i Vol. Laws af Admiralty 186.
Beawes L. M. 49. Bath. NLi Pius 24. 3 Keeblk 444- 3 Bac. Ahr.
564. 3 Black. 163.
A great lofs then has been fuftained by the injury done in the feizure of the Befey ; it will he heavy, and muft finally fall upon the
owners or maier. If the bringing the Betfiy too, for the purpofe
of enquiring whether fhe belonged to a friend or an enemy, was
lawful, the fubfequent conduft was unlawful, and the feizors became thereby trefpaffrs ab initio.
This was a laia culpa in Prole and Thompfon at leaft, the Refpondent was prefent aiding and allifling in c: rrying her away from the
Argg. If one does a trefpafs, and others do nothing hut come in aid,
yet all are principal trefpaffer.
Bro. trejpajsl..p232.'-20. 1 in..lbr.
460. tide trefpafs. p1. 3. andfo. 466. Letter U. If A comes in aidof
B, who beats me, yet he is a trefpalrer as well as B. 22 49: 43If the condu6t of the Refpondent was not wilt/and withfull knowledge, yet it appears to us to have been a cra/a negligentia, and that
any reafonable man, upon inquiry, and the leatt refieaion, upon
reading the orders given to the Prize-ma.ler MNeil, (and he ought
to have read them) or upon the circumfLnces attending the whole
trazilfc&ion, mufl have been fatisfied, that the Betfey was a prize to
the Argo. It is a wrong pofition, that a marker of a fhip is not anfwerable for an errorin judgment, but only for the fault of the heart,
in civil matters. In criminal cafes, as well in ohers as in a mailer
of a hi, it is true. One non comp*s men/is is anfwerable civilly for
a wrong

HICH COURT of EARORS and APPEALS Of Pen;[Y2 1=ia. 1'R
a wrong done to another. Reafonable care, attention, prudence,
and fidelity, are expeied from the matter of a fhip, and if any niftortune or mifchiet enfues from the want of them, either in hinifelf
or hL mariners,,ht is refponfiblein a civil aaion. And it nui appear very ftrange to any underffanding, that the owners o4 a veilel
Ihould be anfwerable in damages for the mifcondu& ot the maltor,
merely becaufe they appointed him mailer, and that the mailer, the
a6tual malfeazor, ihould not be accountable over to them ; that
the innocent flhould fuffer, and the guilty perfon go fcot-fre. We
know o no fuch law.
Tjpon the whole, THE COURT are of opinioir. that the fentence
of the Court of Admiralty be reverfed ;* and this Court do decree
and adjudge, that the refpondent do pay to the Appellants'the Sum
Of L-3795" 3. 6. and the intereft thereof from the 22d day of 7anuary 1785, together wih the cofis by them paid in the former
caufe by Silas Talbot qui tam, againfl them and others, and alfo the
colts of ths" fuit in the Inferior Court. and that each party fhall
pay their own cofts in this Court, the fame to be taxed by the Regiiter, or this Court.
The Counfel for the Refpondent afterwards moved the Courf for
a re-hearing upon a fuggel ion ot new evidence &c. and upon that
occafion, Judge SHIPPEN made the following obfbrvations:-.
SH IPPN,J ufice :-When this Court delivered their decree that the
Refpondent thould pay to the Appellants the Sum of.Z. 3 , 7 95. 3. 6.
they eftimated the damages by what they conceived to iethe value of
the Veffel and Cargo, having then, I believe, no doubt but that the lof;
fbflained was the proper meafrure of damages. The conduA of the
Refpondent, though certainly unjuitifiable, appeared from the evidence
to be attended with fuch favorable circuml[ances, that if the idea had
been entertained that the damages were difcretionary,and could havu
been legally diminithed, I, as one of the Court, fhould certainly
have given my voice for a much lefs fum. Whether the Court had,
or hadjaiot, fuch a difcretionary power, was not made a quefiion on
the hearing, but has fince occurred to me; and having met with V.
cafe which goes a great way towards eftablifhing the principle, I
fhould be willing to hav6 the cafe re-heard as to thic point; Th.
cafre I allude to, is that of RuJli v. Palmer in 2 JI'is. 325. which
was a fpezial a&ion on the care againif an Attorney for negligence,
in rfot charging the Defendant in execution witl.in two terms after
the judgment, whereby the Pl~untiff loft his debt, the Defendant
having obtained a Superfedeas, agreeably to a rile of the Court of
Kings Bench, and had been difcharged ont ofcuftody. On the trial of
the caufe before Lord Cambden, a verdi& was given for the plaintiff
fo17 43oo6. the.whole debt, by the Chiel Jultce's dire-lion. But,
afterwards, on a motion for a new trial, the Chief Juffice hirnfelf
and the relftof the Court were of opinion, that he had mifdtreeted
the Jury in telling them, that they ought to find a verdi;i& for tkt
A a
wh i.i
* See the evidence, ad the fentence of the 14Amirally, rtpo-ted by th- Ho1u1able Itidg of that Courtr, in tlervolume referred to an:. p: 9L.

1786.

z86
xr86.
L

CASES ruled and adjudged &c.

whole debt, whereas the a&ion, founding merely in damages, the Juty
ought to have been left at liberty to find what damages they thought
fit. Accordingly a new trial was ordered, and on the fecond trial
the Jury were told, that they might find what darhages they pleafed,
and, on fome favorable circumrlances appearing for the Defendant,
they founxd only p,.oo. in damages.
The fimilerity of this cafe with that before the Court, inclines
me ftrongly to admit a re hearing of the caife as to this point,
whether, if the Court flould be of opinion that the Refpondent is
anfwerable on the point of grofs negligence, they are bound to
eftimate the damages by the real lofs, or whether they may not mitigate them, according to the 'circumflances and degree of negligence in the Refpondent.
THE COURT, on confideration, direaed a re-hearing asto this
pofint only ; and, after argument, reducing the damages, they gave
the following judgment:
The court do award, that the Refpondefit do pay to the Appellants the fum ofC.948. 15. 1o. 1-2. and the intereft thereof from
the 22d day of .nuary1785, together with the fourth-part of the
cofts by them paid in the former caufe by Silas Talbot qui tam
againft them and others ; and alfo the colts of this fuit in the Inferior Court; and that each party pay their own colts in this court;
the whole of the aforefaid interefi and colts to be taxed by the Regifter, or this Court,

COM-

