COUa"

6f

COIMON PLEAS,

Philadelphia Counly.

i29

SCOTTIN verfus STAILE.Y, et al.
TORN M. TAYLOR haJ put a veffel on the flocks, and

J

contra&e'd with the diffrent tradefmen. When ihe fhip was a
little advanced, he fold one half to Stanley, and otie quarter to 71frph Car/on, or rather interefted them each fo much in the concern.
Taylor continued to be ihip's hufhand, fitted out the fhip, receired
the bills of difftirfements, and was paid by the other' artners their
refpe&ive proportions of the building and, outfits. Mhile the ihip
was on her firft voyage, Taylor failed-The plainif, who was the
painter, commenced this a&ion againft all threei Stanley and Carfon
refufing to pay his bill;
On the 12th of AuguJI the caufe came on for trial.. It did not
apoear in teftimony wlen Stanley and Carfon becirme interefted ;
bui it was admitted to be after the contra6t. The plaintiff made
his charges in his book ,to Ship Hannah", and fhewed, that on the
4th of April, Stanley and Carfon had engaged a captain for the ihip.
The fi'rfi item 6f his account was dated the 3 dof April but all thereft
after they had done this a& of ownerfhip.
. Tdylr offered to confefs judgment, and Sprgrant aild SNtgreaves
fo" the 6th&r two defendants contended, that reference Thould be
had fo the time of the contra& made, which, being.when Taylor was
fole owner, the plaintiff could refort to him alone.; that nd
purchafe made or intereft acquired afterwards, could make jStanley and Carfon liable for a contra& made with Tayr only, and on
Taylor's fole credit, and that this cafe was particularly firong, it being proved that -they had each .paid their proportions already to the,
fhips hufband, 7aylor.
But SHI)?PEN, PrUident,itnfru&ed fhe jury, that as the work
was performed after they .had become owners, and appeared avowedly fo, it was certainly done on their credit; and .not only the
fhip's hufband, but all the real owners at the time of the work done
were liable.
Lewis, for the plaintifT cited and relied on C'owp. 636.
Verdi& for the plaintiff.
BUCKLEY

verfus DURANT.

'rHIS
was an afion of Trover.-Non cul. pleaded, and iffue.L Afterwards. the caufe was referred, and report made, "T.,t
plaintiff pay to defendant X'3 ; upon which payment being made,
defendant to reftore to plaintiff certain articles, for Trover anid
" Converfion of which the ajion was br6ught."
Judgment nif!
had been entered on this report, and now Auguz/ 13, 1785, Lezwis.
for the defendant, offered to flate his obje&ions to te con,".rmatiou
of the report. &.rgeant and Bqn.ifv obje&ed to going i:o the argiment, and infifted that judgment Ihould be na~ie ablbute, bec.'i:
no

