SUPrEME COURT of Fennrb'hama.

SUPREME

COURT

of Pennfulvania,

AIpril Term,

RESPUBLICA

1779.

ve rfius CORNELIUS

SWEERS.

A

T a Court of Oyer and 1erminer &c. held at Philadelphiain N Veml'er, 1778, the Defendant was indided for kforgery upon
two bills. The proceedings were removed by certiorarireturnableinto
this Court, on the 5 th day of December following; and the iflues, on
not guilty pleaded, were tried before a Special Jury on the i 4 th April,
i 7 7 9 , when the Defendant was convikted upon both indid'ments.
Afterwards he filed reafons in arreft of judgment, of Wvhich a recapitulation will be f'ound in the fentence of the Court; and thefe reafons were argued, ind over-iuled, on the 1 9 th day of the- fame
month.
The fir? indidment was for alteringa bill of parcels and receipt
given by jiMargat-et Duncan, for goods bought f'rom her, with intent to defraud the United States; and the charge was Let forth in
the following words:

PhiladelphiaCounty f.
The Jurors for the Commonwealth of Pennfylvania, upon
their oaths and affirmations, do prefent, that Cornejius S-weet's,
"

late of the county 'aforefaid yeoman, on the 4th day of Feruary,
".in

the year of our Lord I778, and long before, and Iince,

:..s

a Deputy Commiffary General of military ftores, in the armies
of the United States of dmerica, and entrtted and employed by
Colonel Benjamin Fowers, the Conimiffary General of military
"
lrtres
.in the arnies aforefaid,, and by the honorable continental

Congrfs, to m.:ke purchafes of military ftores, and of divers

"

other articles, neceffary and fitting in the preparation of military
tores, for the ufe of the armies aforefaid, and to make payments,
and. take receipts, bills of parcels, and other vouchers therefor.
And the Jurors aforefaid, upon their oaths and atfirmations afore-

"

Laid, do fay, and further prifent, that the faid Cornelius Sweers,

"
"

-F

0 oft

C,%srs rLled and adjudged in the
7.

on-the fame 4th day of Februay, in the year aforefaid, at the city
of Philadephia, in the county alorefaid, having in his cuflody
" arid poffeihon a certain bill of parcels or account, with a certificatt
" and receipt, all in writing, lor a parcel or quantity of flannel
cloth,, by him purchafed of one 1tivargaret Duncan, for the ufe of
" the Lzakortbory of the fame armies, and which laid writing was in
" the words. figures, cyphers and letters following; that is to fay;
United States of America
Dr.'
" To Margaret Duncan
1778, Feb. 4th To 57 & a qr, yard Flannel 3 2j6d 4 83 5 7
15 15 0
35f
"To 9 yds Do.
282 6 io"
5!f6
o To 107 & 3 qr. yds Do.

"
"'

•38r
17 S
and
depurchafed
was
I do certify that the above
livered to me for tile ufe of the Laboratoryat Cari/Je.
Ijaac Coran, Captain of the Artillery.
cc and on the back fide of which Laid writing is indorfed and written
- thd words following; that'is to fay: Received the within. contents in full MargaretDuncan : He the Laid Cornelius Sweers afterwards, to wit, on the fame day and year aforefaid, at PhIladel"phia afdrefaid, in the county aforefaid, with force and arms, the
Laid bill of parcels or writing, falfely, fraudulently, and deceitfully, did alter, and caufe to be altered, by falfely making, forging and iding the figure +-to and. before the figure 9, in the fe,,cond item of the laid bill of parcels or writing, which figures and
port and fignify
" letters did, before fuch laft mentioned forgery,.-i
" nine yards, but by reafon and means of fuch laft mentioned for,,gery and addition, did become , import, and.,.fignify forty nine
,cyards; and alfo by forging andaltering the figure r, in the um of
,,the Laid fecond item in the bill-of parcels or writing aforefaid, to
c,the figure 8; which figures did, before fuch aft mentioned alte,'ration and forgery, import and fignify fifteen pounds, and fifteen
Sflbillings, but, by reafon and means or fuch laft mentioned alteration and forgery, did become, import and fignify eighty five
pounds and fifteen fhillings and alfo by falfely forging and altering the figure 3 to the figure 4, and the figure 8 to the figure 5, in
the fum total or amount Q1 the faid bill of parcels or writing ;
o' which figures did, before fuch laft mentioned forgery and alteration, import Land fignify three hundred and eighty one pounds,
' feventeen fhillings and five pence, but, by reafon and means of
" fuch laft mentionied forgery and alteration, did" become, import
" and figniLv four hundred and fifty one pounds, feventeen fhilings
and five. pence, with intention to defraud the Minfted States of .merica aforefaid, of feventy pounds, of lawful mioney of Pennfylva, nia, to the evil example of all others, in like cafe offending, to
the great damage of the aid United States, and againft the peace
and digaity of the Commonwealth of Pennfjylvaia."
The

SUF X-ME COURT of Pennfyivania.

43

Thefecond indii&ment was forforging a receipt,. purporting to be 1779.
a receipt from one Adam Fulke, with intent to defraud the United i
States. It was expreffed in the following words:
PhiladelphiaCounty ff.
- The Jurors for the Commonwealth of Pennfylvania, upon
" their. oaths and alfirmations, do prefent, that Cornelius Sweers,
Slate of the county aforefaid, yeoman, on the firft day of July, in
" the year of. our Lord one thoufand feven hundred and feventy
feven, and long before, and fince, was a clerk to the department
of the Commilfary General of military ifores, in'the armies of
" he United States of America, and entrufted and employed by Colonel Bei jamih Flowers, the Commiffary General of miliary ftores
in the armies :forefaid, and by-the honorable continental Con" grefs, to make payments, andtake receipts, bills of parcels, and
" other vouchers, for mi!itary flores, and for divers articles, neceffary and fitting in the preparation of military flores, purchafed
" for the ufe of the armies aforefaid, and to keep the accounts
" thereof: And the Jurors aforefaid, upon their oaths and affirma" tions aforefaid, do further prefent, that the fame Cornelius Swirs.
on the fame day and year afdrefaid, at the city of Philadelphia, in
" the county aforefaid, contriving and intending, falfely and frauand defraud the United States aforefaid,'
" dulently, to deceive
arms, falfely, wickedly and unlawfully, did
a with force and
make, forge and counterfeit, and caufe to be made, forged and
counterfeited, a certain writing, purporting to be a receipt for
" one thoufand and twenty pounds and fifteen fhillings, and purporting to be figned in the name of one Adam Foulk, in the-words
and figures followingto wit, " 3 Rec'd. rft July 1777 of Col. B.
" Flower, C. G. M. S. one thoufand and twenty pounds 15f. for
4! 82o bayonet belts, and 920 cartouch boxes, for the ufe of the ar" my.
"

.

o20-15

Adam. Foulk.

to the evil example of all others in like cafe offending, to the
great damage of the United State q, and againrf the peace and dignity of the Commonwealth of Pennfylvania. And the Jurors
Caforefaid, upon their oaths and affirmations atorelaid, do further
- prefent, that the faid Cornelius Sweers, contriving and intending
" the faid United Statres, falfely and fraudulently, to deceive and de" fraud, then and there, with force and arms, the faid writing, fo
w'as aforefaid falfely made and counterfeited, purporting to be a receipt for the fum of one thoufand and twenty pounds and fifteen
fhillings, and purporting to be figned in the name of the faid
" Adarm Foulk, wickedly, unlawfully and fraudulently, did publifh,
" and caufe to be publifhed, as and for a true writing and receipt of
E the laid ldaam Foulke; which faid falfely forged and counterfeited
" writing
"

4 -

--.

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

writig, is in the words and ficures following to wit" 3 Rec'el
"'itt yus 1777 of Col. B. P-i.-cr, C. G. M. S. one thoufand
" and twenty pounds [ 5f. for 820 bayonet bolts and 920 cartouch
" b~xes for the ufe of the army,
Adam Pculk.
7 1020-1.5
"

(he flhe faid Cir;7eius zweers, at the time of publiflhing the faid
Salfe and counterfeit writing there by him in form 'aforelaid, well
knowing the faid writing to have been falfely forged and counter".eited as aiorefaid,) to the ciil example of all others in like cafe

oiending, to the c-at damage of the faid United States, -and'
the peace anI dignity ot the Commonwealth of Pennjjlvaagainif
s
m'
la.

The rrifoner being brought before the Court to receive fentence,
kief 7juiee, addreffied him to the following effetM'KEaAN,
Gorne,'us Sweers :-After a fair and full trial, you have been conviaed of thc crime of Fcrgery, upon two indi6iments, by a Special
Jury of your country. The offence fated in the fir_indiement, is
that of altering a receipt given by _114argaretDuncan ; and the charge
contained in thefecondindi&rnent, is that of forging a receipt, purporting to be the receipt of Adam Fzdke. Your council have taken
e ve-a, eXCL .ions to the form and fubftance of 'thefe indi&ments,
upol. - ,ij-,ion in arreft of judgment.
Thefiyfl exception was, " that, at the time of the offence chargnitied States were not a body corporate known in law.",
" ed, the
But the Court are of a different opinion. From the moment of
their affociation, the United States neceffarily became a body corporate ; for, there was no fuperior from whom that chara&er.-could
otherwife be derived. In England, the king, lords, and commons,
are certainly a body corporate; and yet there never was any charter
or flatute, by, which they -were exprefsiy fo created. An indi&ment,
however, may be fufficiently maintained upon " an intent to de"fceivb my lieg e fibjes ;" and to that purpofe there is a pofitive
authority, notreferred to by the council, where a perfon was indi&ed, for having in his cuflody z piece of bafe metal, in the fimilitude
of a fix-pence, knowing it to be bafe, with intent to defraud the
liege fibjeds &c.
Thef'cond exception was, " that the charges in the indi6ments;
On this
"'were not dire"t and pofitive, but only argumentative."
poinz we cannot helitate to declare, that the charges appear to us to
be as direct and pofitive, as it was poffible to exprefs them.
Fne third exception was, " that the indi&ments do not charge
But in the King verus
" that -nv perfon was aatually defrauded."
Ray. 1461, all the Judges declared, that if the cheat
Pd.
Jflhb 2
'be prejudicial, that is, of fuch a nature as may prejudice, an indi&ment

SUPREME COURT

of Pennfylvanht.

45

ment would well lie. In .the cafe of forgery, properly fo called,
which includes only records, deeds, wills, or public initruments,
it may, perhaps, be neceffary that fome perfon fhould be a&ually
prejudiced. This rule, however, does not extend to cheats of the
prefent'defcription,; in which it is fuficient, that the a& be of a projudicial nature.
Upon thewhole, we are of opinion, that yourconvition has been
legal, as well as juft ; and, therefore, it only remains to pronounce
the fentence of the Court.
Sentence, on the firft indi6lment :-A fine of £. 70. and imprifonment until the 4th of July, the anniverfary of dmericanIndependence.
Sentence, on the fecond indi&ment :-A fine of C. 1020. Imprifonment until the next annual ele&ion for Pennfylvania, and
flanding in the pillory for one hour.

The

1779.

