CopaT of PCnnfylvanla.

$trrltlEB

19

?rerent at the birth of a child in proof of pedigree. 3 A2'd. 36. to
Ihew that the Dcfendant's rule of evidence is too lI&.
Upon full argument, THE CoURT over-ruled the eviderIce,
vpon the principle contended for by the defendant's council. '
Some ot the defendant's council, the next day, offered fomne of
Do&or Coxe's letters to David Llkyd, Ihewing that the condition
wi'h.
lomplied
bad been
BUT 'rHE OURoIT adhered to their opinion, and over-ruled thefe
letters alfo.-A verdi& paffed for the plaintiff, by which the fenfe of
the Jury ws, that the non performance of conditions of fettlement,
did not void the 4rant, * "

Sitetmber Term,

Th e

Of BIDPL

1773.

verfus

SHIPPEN.

T' H E. Plaintiff, among other evidence, offered a Map, made by
.1 one Zimmerman, about thirty.years ago. One Yohn Ifnorr,
Zimmerman's nephew, proved that faid Map was the work of his
Uncle, at the requeft of the People of Gormantown ; that his
it remained in the family;
VUncle dying before he was paid for it,
that it contains the lines of the Germantown Lbts, and the adjacent
out Lands; that, upon any difficulty, they apply to him, and this
Mao generally dete-rmines any di'pute they'may have about their
Lines.

Mr. Chew 6ppofed this Map, -at firft, but afterwards agreed that
the Lands in controvetfy were as laid down. in it, and admitted it
wtith a falvo of its being no pxecedent. Upon the Plaintiff'soffering
it to theJury to take out xiith them, Mr. Chew oppofed it; and fome
difference arifing, THE COURT declared itwasnot properevidence,
.that they ".1ould not have allowed its being offered to thejury -not
would they fuffer them to take it out with them.
.letermied at ChoAr,

i..Prj. v4th AugaLz£ ,.

t773.

C.AsEs ruled. and adjudged in t1he

20
!BUT

THlE COUPT alfb declared that the flatute of 21. 7ac. I. c 16.
of twenty years po'cffion, extended here; and that it had never bees
doubted.

A N o NY M 0 U S.
OUIN FISHER, ,aving two fcns ana a Daupgter, madr hi

will, and devifed a plantation to his fon M4,ttkai in fee.
'".tthiasdies in'his minority, inieftate, and without ilhe.
.!u5#n:-vhether his heirs at common pLaw fTh..ltake; or it fhal,
divide . Tcrng His otbei bretl ei
c ad fiflers, under the fupplemental ind
teflate law of this Province .
On a trial in eie6lment for the plaritation, .it
was agreed by council, thit the opinion f the Court hould be conchfive to the Jury.
Mr. yu/ice WILLIWG '-dYu/fle LAWRENCE vere of opinion,
and fo delivercd it to the Jvry, that the egatc fhould he divided: and
twxe plaipitifffuffered a nonfuit. i

September Term,

177.4o

J3efore CHEW, Chief- Juftfie,
W ILLING and M0FTdooN; Jufdces,

HURS.T

verus Dirpo.

T

RESPASS-The Plaintiff's Council opened that f71Iiam Penn,
by deedol 1.aft and rel6afe, granted to his anceftor .4.
scnnlafil'
five thouf nd acres ot land in 'rnnjylvanit; that fizch deeds were loft,
or otherwiferniflaid; and .to provc the exiftence ot fuch deeds, he
Thewed a lift oj names, commonly called the lift of flr purthafer,,
and ccntainin&?: waifant, figned and fi.atqd by ATiiam Pmn, to
Dttermincd at .Buda, Ni, Fri. is Q,..1 7 73.

