8UPR'EME COURT of

Pinnfylvania.

449

I789.
1Por the Plaintiff, in anfwer to thefe obje&ions, it was infifted,
1
that the afignment wasunder thea& of affenibly; andthefollowing
books were cited. i Bac. A4hr. 527. 30. 2 Cam. Dig. 560. a. 4;,
2 Black. Rep. 164o. L. Rayma. 442. 1 Salk. i33. That, by all the
cafes cited, it appeared, that the word affigned ariounts to a cdve'-*
nant that the moneyjhould he paid; that it was immaterial whether the
affignment was legally made to Lynn, cir not ; fince, if he had afligned what he had not a right to afign, that would in itfelf be a breach
to fupport an afion of covenant ; that a bill, originally negotiable,
will be fo in the hands of every indorfce, although, the indorfement
fhould not be to order. i Black. 295. 1 Stra. 5 5 7 .- And that as
this bond was afignable in its nature, by virtue of an aa of'affembly, the defendant, having undertaken to afign it, rendered himfelf
liable in an a&ion of covnant to every fubfequent affignee. And
that if a demand was at all neceffary, it fufficiently appeared in the
general allegation in the declaration.

The CHIEF JUSTIc E now delivered the unanimous opinion of
the Court i-That the affignment by jofeph Parkerto Jofiph Lynn
was not an affignment according to "thea& of affembly (I State
Laws 77.) but only a tiansferof the equitable intereft in the bond; and
that 7of.ph Lynn could not by virtua thereof maintain an a&ion againif the obligor in his own name. The bond was payable to
Leflargette; and, although Parker might have releafed it, it could
only at common law, be fued or affigned by the former, See Jenk.
Cent '22s, ca. 75.
That Jofeph Lynn, the defendant, only affigned his equ'tdaie intereft in the bond to George'Turner. It appears indeed manifeflUy
by the previous afignment of j:feph Par-r (which was equally
to afknown to Turner and to Lynn) that he had no other intcref"
fign. It is, therefore, the mere transfer of a ch.,e in aton; and,
even if an aaion of covenant might have been brought by George
Ylurner againif Lynn on the word affigned.; yet, no fuch a tion could
be maintained again him by the prefent Plaintiffs, as Lynn's aflignment is not made to George Turner and his aligns.
That the covenant implied by the worl aigned,extends.only to
this, that the aflignee fhould receive the money from the obligor to
his own ufe ; and, if the obligee fhouid receivt it, that then the affignor would be anftverable over for it.'
BY TH E COURT :-For Ithefe reafons, let judgment be entered
for the Defendant.

0ES NEL
T

verfus MUSSY.

HE Defendant w;is brought before the Court on a Habeas
Corpus, when the following fa-ts appeared ;-That this fuit
had
L II

45o
789.

CAsxs ruled and -adjudged inthe

had been inflituted againffbim by Mr. Januxem, under the authority
Sof afpecial Letter of Attorney from the Plaintiff, who refided in one
of theUnited States; that the day, after judgment had been obtaine4, another perfon arrived :with a general Power of Attorhey from
..the Plaintiff, and that this perfon, without confulting Mr. Vanuxem,
fettled with the Defendant, to whom he gave a general releafe in
the name of his conffifuent. It appeared, alfo, that the latter Power of
Attorney was only authenticated by proof of the hand writing of
the party, and of the fubfcribing witneffes, before the Mayor of this
city.
. Lewis moved that the Defendant.might be difcharged by virtue'
of the releafe.
Du Ponceau obje&ed, ift, That th. authentication of the general
Power of Attorney was not agreeably to tl A1 of Affembly: and,
cdlv, That a generalpower is not a revocation. of a fJecial onq.
LLewis anfwered, that the queftion was not, whether a general
power isa revocation of the fpecial'one; but whether it was a fuflicient authority for granting the releafe. Of this, he faid, there
could be no doubt; and, with refpe& to the mode of authentication, he obferved, that the A& of Aifem-bly relates only to powers executed'in a foreign country, and leaves the matter here to common
law proof.;
THE COURT were of opinion, that the generalp6wer was fifflcient for the purpofe of the releafe; and, having dire&ed the perfon
affing under it, to anter an acknowledgment of fatisfa&ion on-the
record; they ordered the Pliintiff to be difcharged.

II06TON-. verfus

D

WILL.

OMESTIC ATTACHMENT.-This caufe being re-

moved by Certiorari from the Common Pleas, now came
before the Court on the following Cafe, flated for their opinion:

" The tem of Septemher, in the Common Pleas for the county of

Philade hia, in the ycar of our Lord 1782, began on the 4th day
• of Septemher, and on the x6th day of September, in the fame year,
" Judgment was entered in the Court aforefaid, in an a&ion then
" depending at the fuit of the Plaintiff, above named, againil John
4 Le'vinz, which a&ion had been brought to the term df June, in
" the fame year. On the 5th day of the fame month of Septemler,
"
"

a Domeflic.Attachment ifflied out of the fame Court, at the fuit of
John M'Farland againft the faid 7ohn Levinz, and was ferved on

, the lands of the Defendant on the fame day at ii o'clock in the
*morning. No auditors were ever appointed, nor any other protceedings had, under the faid attachment, intill a fi'nilar cafe was
" fated for the opinion of the Court of
ommon. Pleas for the couh"tyaforefaid, the 9 th day of Novrher, in the year" of our Lord
"1784-

