SUPREME COURT of Pennfylvanza:

July Term, 1788.

The Appeal of BRowN Exor. of

EDGAR.

THIS was an appeal from the Orphan's Court of Philadlphia
.county on the following cafe. Brow., having received£4oo.
on account of the eftate of his Teflator Edgar, paid it over (according to his uniform prafice upon fuch occafions) to his Co-executor
Dogherty. In Brown's books this money was charged, generally, as
fo much cafh paid to Dogherty ; but, in Dogherty's books, credit was
given for it on account of the eftate of Edgar. Dogherly becamc
infolvent; and upon a fettlement of Brown's adminiftration, the
Orthan's Court refufed to allow him the £4oo. thus paid over to his
Co-executor; but charged him with the principal fnm, and intereft
frorn the time he received it, 'till the year 1776, (nine years) dropping the intereft from that time 'till L781; and afterwards reviving it.
It was argued in January Term by Xilcocks in fupport of the appeal, and Lewis againfi it; when three points were made;
if, Whether, the money was a loan to Dogherty, or a payment to
the effate of Edgar; 2d, Whether, if it was a payment to the eflate
of Edgar, Brown was thereby difcharged ; and 3 d, Whether intereft
was payable to the refiduary Legatees, who were the Appellees
upon this occafion.
The CHIEF JUSTIe , having flated the points that were made
in the caufe, now delivered the opinion of the Court.
M'KEAN, Chef 7uflite.-From the evidence we muf determine,
an the firf point, that the money was a payment to the eflate ot
dgar. It was Brown's confiant pra ice to transfer all his receipts
to

312

t788.

Ctses ruled and adjudgcd in the

to Dogherty; and this fum of r4oo. is credited to him in the accounts of the eflate kept by the latter.
With refpe& to thefecond and thirdpoints, it muff be obferved,
that 'the Courts of Chancery make it a general- rule, that he who
receives money fih0 uld be anfwerable for it; and, therefore, if one
Executor becomes infolvent, or bankrupt, the other fhall not be
charged. There is a difference, however, between Legatees and
Creditors ; the iorier being appointed, as wellps.the Executor, by
virtue of the Teftator's-'will; and zonfequently cannot impofe the
fame refponfibility as the latter. The cafe in I P. JXms. 244. is the
only one in point ; but on that authority, and the juftice of the matter itfelf, under all its Circumffances, we are of opinion that, although
Brown would be chargeable if there were creditors, and a deficiency of affets to fatisfy them; yet, that he is not anfwerable to the
Legatees.
The £4oo. muff therefore be dedu&ed from the account, with
the nine years intereff which is charged upon .it. As to the reff, we
think Brown ought to be well fatisfied to pay the intereft; particularlv as it is not charged from theyear 1776 to the year 1781.
The decifion of the Orphan's Court was accordingly affirmed;
deducting £4oo, and nine years intereff, from the account.

SHEWELL

T

verfus

WYcoFF.

HERE was a report in this caufe, and at the diffance of a
month, after Judgment nifi had been entered, the Defendant
filed reafons" in exception to the report.
But, MY THE COURT :-We muff not fport With things of fo folemn a nature as Reports"of Referrees, and Verdi&s of a Jury. The
exceptions are much too late. The rule is, that unlefs they are
filed within four days, the Judgment ni/i becomes abfolute.
Sergiant for the Plaintiff-Bradordand Ingerfoll for the Defendant.

ZANE'S Exors. verfus COWPERTHWAITEi Sheriff.

'i'h-IIS taufe had been argued in the- laffTerm.by Lewis and In.Lgrfoil for thi Plaintiff, and Raw/le nd Bowie for the Defendant; and now the CHPEeF JUSTICE ftated the queftion, and
delivered the opinion of the Court, in the following manner:
M'KiAN, Chief 7fl;ce.-In this cafe the Executors of Zane had
iffued a Fieri fa.ias againff Jofeph Mharton, to which the prefent
Sheriff made return, that he had levied to the value ofthe Plaintiff's
demand, on fpecific goods, enunerated in a certain fchedule. Ii
confecquence of this return, a D;Ilringas, dire&ed to the Coroner
was

