216
1787.
•

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

been brought, a prefumption arifes, that the fenfe of mankind is
againff it. If, however, we fhould be thought to be miftaken, another
hearing may be-had before the High Court of Errors and Appeals.
on a writ of error, where this unew cafe may be finally fettled. *

MUSGROVE,

Qui tan &c. verfus GiBBs.

T

HIS was an aiion qui tahi &c. on the A& of Affembly.againft
lUfury; and, in the courfeof the trial, THE COUtRT refolved
the .following points:
.Firl.-RichardfJ', through +he mediation of Shoemaker, borrowed
8oo Dollars of the Defendant, and gave his note for 84o Dollars
There was no talk about premium at the
payable in one month.
time of the loan; but it was underftood by the witneffes, that the
Borrower was to pay at the rate of 5 per cnt.per month for the money. At the end of the month, Richardfon paid 4. 168. on account
of his note, and gave a new note, drawn in favor of, and indorfed
He difcharged the amount of this
by, Shoemaker, for the ballance
laft note at diffcrent times; but it was never given up by the Defendant.
RESOLVED, fhat this was an illegal loaning of money, 'not-the
and
purchafe of a note, fo as to avoid the penalties of the a&6
that the ufury was compleat on taking and receiving theC.!68 ;
a proportion of that fum, went towards payment of the illegal intereft included in the original note.
Second.-The ufurious contract was Rlated ih feveral Counts of the
dealaration, to be with Shoemaker and Shirtliffe (who were Partners)
jointly; but the proof was of a note given by "Shoemaker alone.
RESOLVED, that this variance is fatal: For, an afion upon the
note could only be maintained againfi Shoemaker, who, if he intende'd to bind his partner, ought to have ufed the' firm ot the company; and, befides, if there fhould be a recovery againif the Defendant on the prefent count, it would be no bar to another qui tam
a 'tion on the fame note, Rating the ufurious contraS to have been
with Shoemaker alone.
Third.-Shoemaker and Shirty. borrowed feyqral fums from the
Defendant, and gave their notes payable in a ri inth, with intereft,
at the rate of 5 per cent. per month, added to the principal. Whenthefe became due, they could. not pay the money, but drew new

notes, making the principal and =ioleft of the former notes (which
were given up by the Defendant) principal, and again .adding the
fame exceffive intiereft up'on the agregate amount.
RESOLVED, that, although no money wa aaally paid to (he
; and the"
Defendant, the fecond notes were a 1 tisfacton of thc iirlt

ufury

The parties, acquiefcing in the decifion of the Court, no writ of error has been

f

out.

SUPREME- COURT of Penn.fylvania.

;T7

ufiry was compleat on the DAendant's accepting them, as thereby
the original contra& between the parties was extinguifhed. 'An
by M'KxAN, Chief 'uflce.-It is well eftab; hed, that the receipt
of one thing in"fatisfaiion of another, is a good payment; as the
acceptance of a horfe in lieu of a fum of money; or of a bond by a
third. perfon in difcharge of a pridr obligation
Fourth.-THxCOURT left it to the Jury to determine whether
on certain fa&s, the Defendant had loaned the money, or purchafed
the note in qudlion: Fof, they RssoLVED, that a fair p rchafe
might be madeof a bond or-note, even at 2o or 30 per cent. difcount,
without incurring the dangers bf ufury ; and, if, upon the prefent
occhfion the Defendant had run the riflue of a forgery, the prefumption ought to operate in her favor, that, for this reafon, fhe"
had bought the note at a depreciated price.
Sergeant and Bradford, for the Plaintiff.-Lewis, Ingerfoland Dalias for the Defendant.

COMMON

1787.
L-.v-

