COMMON

Philadelphia
County :

PLEAS,

June Term, 1787,

GE.RARD

verfus LA COSTE et al.

THIS cafe came before the Court on a fpecial verdi&, and, after argument, the f6llowing judgment was pronounced by the
PRESIDENT.
SHIPP RN, Prdident,-This afion is brought againft the accep-.
tors of an inland Bill of Exchange, made payable to h'afs and Soyer
and indorfed by them, after the Acceptance, to the Plaintiff for a valuable confideration. The Bill is payable toBafi and Soyer, without
the ufual words" or order' " or affigns", or any other words of negotiability.' The queflion is, whether this is a Bill of Exchange,
which, by the law merchant, is indorfable over, fo as to enable the
indorfee to maintain an adlion on it againf the acceptors, jn his own
nanLne.
The Court has taken rome time to confider the cafe, not fo much
.from their own doubts, as becaufe it is faid eminent Lawyers, as
'well as Judges, in .America, have entertained different opinions concerningit. There is certainly no precifeform of words neceffary to
conflitute a Bill of Exchange, yet from the earlieft time to the prefent, merchants have agreed upon nearly the fame form, which
contains few or no fuperfluous words, terms of negotiability uffially
appearing to make a part of it. It is indeed generally for the benefit of trade that Bills of Exchange, efpecially foreign ones, fhould
be affignable ; but when they are fo, it muff appear to bea part of
the contra&, and the power to affign muff be contained in the Bill itfelf.

COURT of COMMON PLEAS of Philadelphia County.

195

felf. The drawer is the lawgiver, and dire&s the payment as he
pleafes; the receiver knows the terms, acquiefcds in them, and
muff conform.
There have doubtlefs been many draughts made payable to the
party himfelf, without more, generally perhaps to prevent their negotiability :-W-Whether thefe draughts can properly be called Bills
of Exchange, even between the parties themfelves, feems to have
been left in fome doubt by the modern Judges. Certainly there are
draughts, in the nature of Bills of Exchange, which are not irif&ly
fuch, as thofe iffuing out of a contingent fund; thefe, (fay the
Judges in 2 .Black. Rep. i4O.) do not operate as Bills of Exchange, but, when accepted, are binding between the parties.
The queffion, however, here, is not whether this would be a good
Bill of Exchange between the draweri payee, and acceptor, but
whether it is indorfable.
Marius's Advice is an old book ofgood authority; in page 141 he
mentions exprefly fuch a Bill of Exchange as the prefent, and the
effe& of it, and he fays, that the Bill not being payable to aman orhis
A4figns, or Order, an aflignment of it will not avail, but the money
muff be paid to the mait himfeif. In i Saltld 125, it is faid, that
it is by force of the words, " or order" nathe Bill itfelt, that authority given to the party
Is to aign it by indorfemet.-ln Salk. 67
lkegoBill mayorbeordcr,
and fuch
ruled, that
merchants;
whereaofBill
Is drawn payable
the cuffom
to aa man,
it isis within
tiated and afflgned by cuftom andthe Contait of the Partes. And n
to
words'" orand
faid to
by aflign
the Court,
exrefly
33 give
it is the
i Slk.
indorfement,
by the
the Billhat
authority
order,"
his
"

that wthout thofe words the Drawer was not anfwerable to the imight. is drawn in favor of the Plaintiff
Indorfer
dorfee, although thefome
plaufibilit
An argument of
from the fimilarity of Promiffory Notes to Bills of Exchange. The
fatute of 3 -& 4 of Ann appears to have two obe&s ;-one to enable
he perfon to whom the Note is made payable, to fue the drawer upon
(which he could not do before that A&)
the Note as an infrument
and the other to enable the indofee to maintain an a&ion in his own
name againff the drawer. The words in this A& which defcribe
the NIote on which an a&ion will lie for the Payee, are faid to be
the fame as thofe on which the a&ion will lie for the indorfee,
Order;
perfon,wilor his
to any
a Note payable
namely, that it hall beadjudged
the
lie for
an acion
cafes, that
and it appearing by
follows
it
note,
the
in
not
are
order"
or
words"
the
Payee although
(it is contended) that an a&ion will alfo lie for the Indorfee, without
thofe words, If the Letter of the A& was flri&ly adhered to, certainly neither the Payee, nor Indorfee, could fupport an amion on
Note, whach did notcontain fuch words of n ablt as are mencontruaion of the Judges has been, that
tioned in the Ar; y
on a Note not made apeignafupportana&ion
the orignal payee may
ble in terms. The foundation of this conflrution does not fully appear in the cafs, butit was probably thought cnfonant to the Spirit
of

1787. -

x96
1787.

CASs ruled and adjudged in the

of the A&, as the words " or order" could have no effea, and
.fuppofed inmaterial, in a fuit brought by the payee himfelf
againft ihe mnaker of the Note. But to extend this conflru&ion to the cafe of an lndorfemnent, without any authority to
make it appearing on the face of the Note, would have been to violate not only the Letter but the Spirit of the A&. Con equently no
fuch cafe any where appears On the contrary, wherever the Judges
fpeak ofthe effeal of an indorfcnienr, they always fuppofe the Note
itfelf to have been oriinal!y .made indorfable. The cafe of Moore
verfus Manning in Corn, Rep. 311. was the cafe of a Promiilory
Note originally payable to one andhis Order; it was aligned 'vithout the words " or order" in the indorfinent ; the queftion was,
whether the affignee could aflign it .again: The Chief Juftice, at
firft,
inclined that he could not, but it was afterwards refolved by the
whole Court, that itthe Bill was originally aftignable, " as it will
be (fay the Court) if it be payable to one and his Order," then to
whomfoever it is afligned, he has all the intereit in the Bill, and may
aflign it as he pleafes. Here the whole flrtfs ofthedetermination is
laid upon what were the original terms of the Bill, if it was made
payable to one and his Order, it was aflignable, even by an indorfee
without the word " order" in the inirlrfment; it follows, therefore, that if the Bill was not originally p;yable to order, it was nit
.aflignable at all. The fame point is dttermined, for the fame reafons, in the cafe of Edie & Lairdv. the Ea? India Company, in i Black.
R. 29 , -where Lord Man feld fa)s, " the main foundation is to
conficer what the Bill waz in its origin ; if in its original creation
it was a negotiable draught, it carries the power to aflign it."
In a fimilar cafe, cited in Buller's n/i prmus 3 9o0the Court held, that
as the Note was in its o-gina] creation indorfalie, it would be fo
in the hands of the indorfee, though not fo expreffed in the indorfment.
Thefe cafes leave no room to doubt what have been the fentiments
of the Courts i Englandupon the fubje&. To make Bills, or
Notes, affignable, the power to affign them muft appear in the infiruments themfelves; :nd then, the cuflom of merchants, in the
care of Bills of Exchange, and the A& of Pailiament, in the cafe of
Notes, operating upon the Contra7 of Ike.Parties, will make them
aflignable.
In the cafe before us, no fuch contra& appears in the Bill. The
acceptance was an engagcn-ent to pay according to the terms of the
Bil1 to Bafs & So)er; a fuhJiyuent indoifment, not authorized by
the Bill, cannot vary or enlarge that engagement, fo as to fubje&
the acceptor, by the law merchant, to an a&ion at the fuit of the
isndorfee.
Judgment for the Defendant.

Srnightbe

SHOEMAKEa

