366.

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

after the Referees had agreed upon their report, though before the
a ual figning of it; This, however, is no legal obje&ion, becaufe if any part ot an award be impotiible to be performed, it appears by a cafe in Salk. 83. that the Court will refufe an attachment for that part. Yet, as the Plaintiff in the prefent cafe would
roceive the benefit of what the-Defendant has done in taking up the
fecurity, we fhould certainly think it equitable that he fhould
abate fo much out of the money'to be recovered, and upon application would oblige him tg do it; and, in general, fee that the report
was-carried into execution in'all its parts, agreeably to the intent
of the Referees, and the juflice of the -cafe.
We therefore confirm the report.

GORGERAT

et al. verfus M'CARTf.

N a rule to fhew caufe why the Defendant fhould not be difcharged on common bail, M'Cary itated in his depofition,
*that, bping confiderably embarraffed, he had, according to the laws
of France, declared himfelf a bankrupt by filing a ftatement of his
debts and credits, and delivering all his books and papers. into the
Confular Court of L'Orient, for the benefit of his creditors ; the
prkcipal tart of whom, in confequence of this furrender, had met
together, appointed Truftees, or Syndics, in the ufual form, and then
granted him a letter of licence fbr three years, together with a power
of attorney, to colle& his outfianding debts in Ameriia, in order to
remit the fame for their ufe ; flipulating, however, that he fhould
return to France within one year from the fime of his departure.
The 7Mlaintiff, among others, had proved and regiftered his debt in
the Confular Court; and, it was agreed by the Counfel for both
parties, that, on a furrender of this defcription, itthree fourths in
value of the creditors had confented to the Defendant's difcharge,
the agreement or compofition by them figned, being hoamologated,
that is to fay, recorded and confironed by the Court of Parliament,
(which is a matter of courfe unlefs fraud is fhewn) became by the
lex loi obligatory.upon the non ftibfcribing creditors.
Ingerfol, in rupport of the rule, &ontended, that it was fettled by
the decifions in Al'illrv. Hall(ant.229.) and Tompfon vs. Young (ant.
29 1.) that adifcharge under the laws of one country, operated as fuch
in every other; and he offered to prove by the teflimony of the Defendant himfelf, that three fourths in value (the depofition only flat.inguthat thefrinhipalpart) of the craditors had agreed to the com0

-

pofition at L'Orient; obferving, that, if this would be fufficient to

.induce -the Court to oi'der an Exoneretur after judgmenti it would
;alfo be fufficient to induce them to difcharge the Defendant in the
prefent ifage or the caufe.
Du Pon eau, having read a.pofitive affidavit of a fubfiffting debt,
*ppofed te admiltion of the Defendant's teitimony. He faid,
-

-

-

that

COURT Of COMMON PLEAS

of Philadelphia County.

361

-that, even if M'Carty's difcharge according to the lex loci could be 1789.
a&ually proved, it would not operate againft the Plaintiff on a motion of this kind. The mutual fpirit of intercourfe among nations
has, indeed, introduced a more liberal idea of the cedlio bonorun;
and, upon the trial of the caufe, fuch proof would probably be fatal
to the Plaintiff's demand : but, whether he is difcharged, or not,
iz; a matter of fa&, to be decided by the verdi&f of ajury; Salk. oo.
atia to deprive the Plaintiff of fpecial bail, at this time, would not
only be an illegal anticipation of that decifion, but, in effe&, a denial of juftice, as it appears that the. Defendant is under an obligation to repair hortly to France, and would probably never venture
again within the juriidi&ion of this Court.
He contended, however, that, even by hig own fhewing, M'Carty had not been difcharged in France; and reprefented, that the .proceedings in the Confular Court amounted to no more than an inchoate bankruptcy; for, the concurrence of three fourths in value
of his creditors to the compofition alledged, and the homologalion or
confirmation thereof by the Parliament, being an indifpenfable requifite to his difcharge, 'till that was eflablifhed, it could not avail
the Defendant that he had made a furrender, or that the Plaintiff
had proved his debt, any more than the furrender of a bankrupt
here, or the proof ofa debt under the commiflion, would be fufficient
to preclude a credit3r from his remedy at law, before a certificate
was adually granted.
Nor is the Defendant's teflimony, he urged, competent to prove
the fad, which, by the lex loci, operates as a difcharge; it is a matter to be fhewn by an exemplification of the foreign record; when.
perhaps, it may be tantamilount to a bankrupt's certificate ; or, with
Itrider'analogy, it may be compared to the cafe of a difcharge under the compofition. law of England; and he cited a cafe which he
faid was exaffly in point from Salk. 99. pL 7. where the Court, on
a quelfhon of bail, would not allow the Defendant to /hew that he
had obtained his difcharge under that aA, and that the Plaintiffwas
bound, though a non fubfcriber, to the compofition.
Ingerfol, in reply, faid, that he did not mean to contend, that the
debt was difcharged; but only to fhew, by the teflimony of the'Defendant, a collateral fad, which entitled his perfon to an exemption
He agreed that the proceeding
from arreft in 'the prefent cafe.
amounted only to an inchoate bankruptcy under the infolvent laws'
of France; but, he infifted, that it woUld be cruel and unjuft to allow the Plaintiff all the advantage of his concurrence there, and likewife the benefit of fpecial bail in an adion here. Although it may
be true, therefore, that the Defendant had not yet received what
would amount -to a certificate, yet, as he has furrendered all his
effeds, muniments, and vouchers, to the proper officers, for the
benefit, and with the knowledge and approbation of the Plaintiff,
as well as his other creditors, the Court will not fuffer the oppreflion
ihat is now attempted, but rather incline to hear'the. Defendant in
favor of the rule ; and, if it can be fhewn that three fourths in'
ualue

.isEs
i 788.
.

'uled and- adjudged in .ifie

valtie of his creditors have agreed to his difcharge, the eftablifhed
principles of law will prote& him here from the molefiation o, ,
refia&ory individual.'
SHIiPEN, Prefdent.-- There are certain rules adopted for: the
government of the Court in refpe& to bail, which, as they irp confonant to law and reafon, ought not to be Wantonly violated.' - A
.cafes of necefity, however, thefe rules' fimit of fome relaxatiots;
awherd it is ira&icable to obtain a p'oIitive affidavit of the debt.
the Court, being fatisfied of its exiftence by collateral proofs, wil1
order fpecial bail to be entered.
But the prefent queftion is not df that natare; for the matter alledgtd in fupport of the rule, goes imniediately to the meriti -ofthe
caufe, and cannot, with-any propriety, be corrfidered as a faa merely Collateral. It is, in effe&; faking, that the Defendant has paid
the Plaintiff's debt; which fuiely cannot Die tried on a motion of
this kind; nor cal it at any time be fubftantiate-d by the. teftimony
of the Defendant himfelf.
I think, indeed, that the liberality of our Courts, has already
extended the benefits of a ceffr. bonoru'n in another country, as far as
pruderice will'juftity. In the cafes of MAillar v.- Hal and Thompfon
v. Toung, there had been a. teneral.furrender for the benefit ot all
.he reditors; and judgnidets'of dfchbigefrom iheir refp7ive debts,
were regularly pronounced and certified in favor of the Defendants
by the Cotirt.of a fifter State. This diftinguifies thefe cafes froni
the cafe of .ames etal. v. ilii (ant. t88.) where the Defendant'i
prfon only w-as diftharged, under a law of Newz-.7erfey, clearly local
in its terms and operation- And, in the cafe of Le Clercqv. .Richeite
our opinion, in direing ihe jury to find f6r the Defendant, was
fo unded upqn the evidenic that the Plaintiff was a party t6 the proceAdings in p¢rancei and that an a6tual difcharge had been obtainedc
Conformably td-the4aw ot that kingdom.
From thefe decifioiis it may be colle&ed, that the judgibent of
i foreign Court Aifcharging the debt, would, for that purpofe, be
recognized here;- but it would'he contrary to reafon, juftice, and
law, to prdte& a min froni arrefts, .who had made his way to this
country befcre he obtained his certificate, .merely becaufe .he had
ornimitted an a& of bankruptcy and furrendered to the commiffioners
An England. "The. objeffions are equally ftrong upon the prefent
bccafion ; for, it is clear, ihatthe proceedings, which have.hitherto
-aken' place in the Confular Court of L'Orent,, are inchoate and in"
onelufive; and, eveii if thePiintiffhad-fgnef the-letter of licence
ffor tlhree years,..that; according to ati exprefs" authority in Barnes,,
,duld not be a fufficient caufe for refutfing fpecial bail.
Upon the whole, THE COURT ai-e clearly of opinion, that the
Defendant is 'not eptitled to be releafed on common. bail, and,
therefore, dire&.
The- -ule to be.difcha,-geo.;

