159"
F785.
---

CASs ruled and adjudged in the

On the whole, after the prefent prac! ice on rcplcvins has been orfo many years ftanding, and feems founded on a law of' our own,
We think it would be improper to make fuch an alteration, as woui
be.occafioned by iffuingjudicial writs de pronprietate probanda.
The rule difcharged.

TAYLOR verf24s KNOx., etal.
FINLAYSON ve fus .KNox, et al.

FO REIGN attachment.--In thefe cafes rules had been obtain-

ed to ihew caufe of adion, and why tme attachments 1hould
not be quafhed.
On th argument, the garnifhe.e H-renderfon (who was alfo a copartner
defendants)
feveral "--That
witnelbs,David
by ihofe
teflimonywith
thethe
following
facts produced
were eflabliflhed
Knox
came to Phladelphia in the Ipring of 1784; that he brought furniture with him, hireo ,dwelling houfe and ftore, and profeffed
his bones ere." That he weni to Vrginia in
layfailed
"toand
an intention
kcbruary
!7g5,
thence o Englan', mIconfequence
receiving intelligence of fome mifcondu&l of*-another partner, of
named
Gowan,
whorefided
there,
and
had
never
Amlierica. That
during his abfence, and at the time of layingbeen
the inattachments,
the
copartner,
now
garnifhee.
in poileffionofof the houfe in
Phinadelphia,with mch thecontinued
fame efeb!ifhnent
fervants &c. but
fter the attachments were laid. he broke up houfe-keeping. That
David
a fingle
man, and this"/Rate,
it was not or
known,
had takK~nox
en thewasoath
or allegance-to
not. whethcr he
The plaintiffs to few their caufe of action. produced affidavits
f accounts from their refpedive books. fworn to before the Lord
of Lon.on.
navor
The qeion being argued by Ingrfol
and Rawle, in fupport of
the Gotion, and by Leis and
adcocks
ageine
in he
PRSIDEcaT,
at anaijoumed it
on the
teing
i~t otFebruary 1786, dlivered the
opinion of the Court.
SHIPPEN,"Preden.J.The fare fpoint to he decided, is, whether
the orei gn attahments ought not to be diffolved,on he proot
givei of Knox's being ln inhaitant of P
w
knfowlvgni,
at the time they
ilued
We? would
laod
ying dow' any general rules as to what ill
o will inot,
make a perfon an inhabitantwithin the attachment law,
leacafos fotjld hereafter happen, which might come within thofe
general rules, but were not in the contemplation of the Court in
the particular care before them. We think, however, ifapry genehl rule was made, it would be reafonabl, and very onfonant to our
aws an'i confitution, that the perfon's refidence here, to make him

CodaR

of.Co'MmoN PL-Es, 'biladelphia County.

r59

*Ainhahitant, fhould be fo long as to give him, the rPghts of citizenfhip--to wit, for twelve months. And we fhdul have no'hefitatibn ih laying this down as a rule, if it were not for thofe zafes
of difpute which may arife between creditors on a domoftic attachment, and. creditors on foreign attachments, -where it may frequently happen that the debtor's refidence may be lefs than 12 months,
and yet-he may, and ought, to be an obje& of the domeflic attachment law, fo as to have his effe6ts "dividedamong all his creditors,
and not fwept away by the firif creditor- who takes out a for6ign
attachment.* But in cafes where a ftranger comes among us, and
remaing here for a ih-ort time, ind then goes away under futh circumrtances, as nor to make him an objea of the dom/Nc .attachment, it will always have conidefable weight with us, that- he: hes
not refided here for twelve months.
In Knox's cafe his refidence here was only eight or- nne montfts,
the family he left behind him, does not appear to be 6''k kind
to denote -an. unequivocal continuation of his refidence, being probably po more than was fufficient for his partner Henderfon's own
actommodation as a fingle man.
Theferond queftion is, whether there has been 'fuch proof of a
debt due, as is fufficient to fhew a caufe of a&ion?
And here it will be proper to mention the reafon and occafion
of making the rules with regard -to proofs neceffary for holding to
bail on writs of capias. When I came into this Court; I found a
pra&ice had lately taken place of requiring proofs of the debt, fimilar to thofe required by the Patute of x2 G. i. fo as to difable
abferft plaintiffs frodi holding defendanis to bail, for want of a pofitive affidavit bef^re one of the judges of this Court of a fubfifting
debt. I confidered this prafice as not founded in law, and as tending to injure the credit of -the country. That it was not foundeid
in law "Itook to be clear, from the*words of our a& of Affembly,
made fhortly after the re olutioh, extending only fuch of the ftatute
laws ofEnglandashad theretofore been-in fbrce-in Pennfylvania. The,
a& of r2G. ti 'was certainly.not in force, nor ever pra&ifed under,
-before the revolution. But as'the judges who had fat here before
me, thought there wats'good reafon to kep up !x kind of reciprocity between Englari and us, upon this -fubjel, and not being willing to relax the rule 'totally it became neceffary in order to preferve a uniformity of determination in the feveral judges of the
another
mode, fo as to avoid extending an a& of
Court, to fettle
Parliament
by their
authority,
which had not been extended by the
Legiflature, and yet not to give the inhabitants of that country the
fame eafy method of provinig their debts in England before the
Lord Mayor,'rothcr riagi rate there, which had been pralifed previous to the revolution under their own a&s of Parliament. A
middle way was, therefore, firuck, out ; and a fignature of the party to fome.inftrument ofwriting, or Tome letter, or acknowledgment
Cf
1eU- Ants z5

ZcxaEiuraZkrA', CWe.

1785.

x6o

1725.

CAsKS

ruled and adjudged &c.

of the debt, was made neceflary to be fuperadded to the ufual probate made before the war. This rule, however, affiets the inhabitants of other countries as well as England; and it may poffibly be
found neceffary, at fome future time,to make an alteration in it more
conformable to the general law on thofe fubje&s.
But, as at the time of making the rule, we bad no eye to any
other kind of procefs, than writs of capias, and it was exprefsly
confined to them, in favour of p~erfjonal liberty, we do not think it
fhould be extended to other cafes, not then within our view. In
cafes of attachments, therefore, we think it fafeft, to follow the law
as we find it in our books before the .ftatute of 12 G. z. And as
it appears' by the cafe in 8 MOd. 323, that an affidavit of a plaintiff;
before a. notary public in Holland, was deemed fufficient to hold the
4defendant to bail, we think the like affidavit in this cafe, fhould
be fufficient for the fame purpof6.
Motion to diffolve the attachments difcharged.

