S-URE,.E CoUrT of Penuf1'ania

355

On. a rule. to thew caufe- why the writ fhould not be qua fhed,
Moylan contended, thatforeignattachmentsmight be laid in any hands
whatfoever; that in. EBgland they iffued out of an inferior Court,
and, therefore, could not call money from a fuperior jurifdiaion;
but that this reafon, which goverredall the adverfe cafes determined
there, did not apply under the law or pra6ice of Pennfy/vania.
Cox, in fupport of the rule, obfcrved, that there are many infiances where attachments would not lie, befides the one mentioned
by his opponent. A debt due by recovery on record, cannot be attached; nor goods levied in execution by fierifacias.. Com. Dig.
424. nor property ofa'fovereign flate : Aatban verfus P'rgin'aant 7..
in not. But, he contended, that the mifchief would be intolecable,
if the effe&s of one fuit could be thus drawn'into perpetual litiga-"
tion by another.
BY THE CouRT.-The rroney is to be confidered in the fame
fiate, as if it had been paid into the hands of the Sheriff. It a proceeding of this kind were allowed, there coirld be no end to fuits.
We are unanimoufly of opinion, that theftreign at!achment has iffued
irregularly and ought to be quafhed.
The rule made abfolute.

HART et al. verfis

T

'AMES.

2A&ions.

HESE acions were brought upon three promiffory notes, two
of which (included in one declaration) had been indorfed to
the Bank; and the third was in the poffellion of Meffrs. faryhorne
and'Large, as a collateral fecurity from the Plaintiffs, for the payment of a debt amounting to nearly, the fum'mentioned in the note.
In both a~tions judgments had been entered generally, on thg 28th
of April, 1788, with an-agreement in each, that the quantum thould
be afcertained by a reference, and a report made to next term. The
refierees, however, were not appointed untill the 8th of Yuly, 1788,
fix days after the commencement of the term, and they made no report untill the 5thof Auguj1 following; when one report was made in:
favor of the Plaintiffs, for one fium, including what was due in
both aaions. On the 8th of AuguJ1 the Plaintiffs applied for writs
of execution ; but, upon the Pr(th~notary's exprefl&ing a doubt as to
the manner ol it'uing them, on account of this confolidation of the
fums in the report, the Plaintiffs prevailed on the referees feparatelv, and without the confent or knowledge of the Defendant, to fign
the following explanatory certificate:-" For the better explanation
Sof
ourreport in the adions of 7ohn Hart and Chamlefs Haragaini
Benjamin Yamnes, we find due to the Plaintiffs in the firft aqioin tie
fum of 6 325. 19. 5. and, in tlhz lecond" the finn ui
Z 668. 2. 9 ."-This certificate was fi ed on the 15 th of Aigu.f2
when writs offieri facias were taken our. without giving notke o.
the report to the Defendant ; who, hoiN ever, accidentally heard. ot
it, and on the i8th of Auguji, atter the e.zecutions we'e iffued, he
filed the following exceptiopns
I. '1 lUt,

.7S8,

CASEs ruled and adjudg:d in the

. . 1at one report is made in Iwo aaions, feverally referred.
2. That the Referees filed a fupplementary report without the
knowledge of.the Defendant, at- the inftance of the Plaintiffs.
3. That the firft report is on condition, and therefoi-e the Referees
have mnifiaken a plainpoint of law; the fecond report being made
after'their authority had expired.
4. That the promiffoiy notes for which the a&ions wer, brought,
are not in1 the Pl.aintiffs' hands, but affigned for a valuable confideration," and, therefore, there is no legal caufe of a&ion.
The exceptions being oppofed byFJher.forthe Plaintiffs, and fupported by .ngerfol and Dallas for the Delendant; THEC CouRTfeemed clearly of opinion, that thfirfl report could not be maintainid ; that the fupplementary report-was irregular ; anrd that the rule
of reference to report to ntxt term, did not authorife the i.Tuing executions upon the -report into office duriig the vacation (particularly
without -notice to the Defendant although a term had intervened between the entering of the rule, and the appointment of the Referees.
No-opinion was given on the other points, but the execution and
-report were, for the above reafons, fet afide, and the a&iop.s, by
confent,. referred de nova.

STARRETT'S

Cafe.

WTiLRREr, while attending the Court as a fuitor. was
]ENRY
taken by a Ca. Sa. and Chambers moved that he might be difcharged from the arreft, citing 4 Jac. 42,I. 3 BL. C. 289. 2Stra.
io94. i Barn. 17.
"earesand G. Smith oppofed the motion, and contended, that there
wasa.diLinfion between an arreft on mefne, and onjud;cial,procefs;
for, though, in the former cafe, fhe Court would difcharge a fuitor,
witnefs, &c, from an arreft made during an attcndance upon them,
yet, in the latter, they would not, becaufe the party.would afterSwards b. reinedilefs, Iood's Iqfl. 503. 6oo. 4 Cm -Dig 475.
ii M'd.- 34. 2 2. There-is, likewife, another reafon: .the Gapias on mine procef" might be taken out merely on a luggeftion; bWi:
injudicial.procefs, ih 4ebtis certain, and fixed by. the judgment of
the Cort.
O'ambersand Tiartey, in reply. The prote&ion of fiuitors &c. is
eflablilhed to promote an equal adminiffration of jutfice, and to prevent theopp -effion ofa rich and powerful mian, overa poor one who
-is folicitingjufiice. There ii no cxprefs authority that extends the
do~rine to~tohis cafe- but in 4 Cum.. 575. tit. P riv. it is laid down,
that an execution fhall not be difcharged, yet, if the party who procured it, will not cdnfentto a difcharge, he thall hirinlf be committed. The books cited in Comyns, Crompton, and .JJvcd's f. are of
little authority 5•

AM'K 9A X

