8u"SWEM

Coux-r ox PnjhAkw~.

it

On the Part of the D]fendant it was infifted that he ought to pay
'ho more on this Policy th-.n the a&ual lofs fuftained by th 'payinent of Savage and other Charges. That the Captain having fet
up the Veifel to fale without any Orders of the Court of Admiralty,
and purchafed her himfeif in behalf of the Owners, for about on
fourth of the Sum infured, and this being acquiefced in by the
V1 -intifsa, there was no abandonment, and therefore but an average
lofs.
Tng CounT gave a charge in Favour of Defendant; and the
Jury accordingly give the Plaintifi a Verdi& for fo much only as
they judged a ,compenfatiou for Salvage, charges, and Lofs of Time.
OR Ucount ofthe eapturxc

September Term,
WILLIAmt

1764

ALLEN, Chief Jufice.
f

WILLIAM COLEMAN,

ALEXAmDE . SrEDMA? .

Juices.

ING'S Road. Ort ¢oirmurian ofa Riad by the Julticei o$
Che/?er county, the Record was brought up by Ceriorari; awl
it was moved to reveqfe the Judgucent of confirmation, becaufe the
Juices balow h4 retffed tQ grapt a Review, though petitioned
threto by a Perfoun who complaineil I= Was aggrieved by the Roans
unning through his inproved ground.--On argument, THE Coves
reverfed the Judgment for that reafon, alledging that a Review,
hough not taken nxoice of in the A& of Aftembly, hid always
been granted, ind was now become a matter of right.
K

AX

Ruca

tx,vrfus PgT.ER TURNER.
DAvx£r et

T

HIS Caufe came efore the Cou't for adetermination on
a 1pecial Verditt which found, That thd Defendant's late
Wife garab,before her Marriage, was feized of the Lands in queftion in fee; that after-her Marae, with the DefendAnt, (he ind her

Hufband joined ina onveyance to two Truffees and their Heirs,

4'. Rahendum to them and ihe Survivor of them and his Heirs tor
ever,.in truff UeverthelefsW and for the propet Ufe and Behoof of
" the faid .P. Zwrner~and S. his Wife, foi and during tIeir joint
"'Lives, and from and after the Deccafe of either oi Oem, then to
Sabd
"

for the fole and proper Ufe 'and tehoof of tho Survivor of

them and his or bar Heirs tarever,,'
B22

That the-faidP, Yw7rr and.

.hi

X764.
,

