COURT of COMMON PL.AS of PhiladehiaCunty.
SHOEMAKER

JUDGMENT.

197

verfius KNORR.

F. Fa. returned, 'and Find. Rxp. to Dec.
Term, 1786, re.turned by the Sheriflf " Proceedings flaid by
ti PlantiiT." The Sheriffafterwards made fale of the premiffes,
and the Plaintiff took a ptiedpe from his Attorney, for an Jl. Vend.
.EX. returnable to March Term 1787, but before the return day of
the term, the fale had been made, although the precipe was not delivered, and no writ made out till after the term, when the Prothonotary, on- the -pplication of the Sheriff, iffued an alias Vend. Exp.
re urn,:ble to june Term.
It was now moved to alter the - efte and return, by the precipe;
that is, to make the writ returnable at Mlarch, inflead of )'une
Term.

Sergeant, the Detendant's Attorney on record, did not oppofe
the motion, but declared, that as his aiuthority was determined by
the Judgment, his confent could not be obligatory on his client.
'I HE COURT, after fome deliberation, granted leave to make the
alteration moved for; relling, it feemed, upon the ground that the
prr.tp Iurnifhed fomething to amend by.
.Raw!e for the Piaintiff -Sergeant for the Defendant.
PHILE
T

qui tam verfus The Ship ANNA.

HIS was an information filed by the Naval Officer of the port
of Philadepbhia, againfi the thip Anna, lately arrived from
.Brl/ol upon the difcovery of Peter- Cooper, that forty two hampers
of porter, part -of her cargo, had been landed, without being firft
duly entered at the Colleztor's office, conformably to a law of this
Sc ite, paired the fifteenth day of M_'arch, one thoufand feven hundred and eighty feven, which en-¢&L, among other things, " That
every veifel or boat, from which any goods, wares, ormerchandize,
Ithall be unladed before due entry thereof, 'at the office of the Collc.
tor, of the -port of Philadelphia, and every carriage into which any
fizch goods fhall be fint put or loaded, after removal from fuch vefel
or b.iat, together wit h the horfe, horfes, or cattle drawing the faid
carriage at the time of feiLure, ihall be torfeited, and feized by the
Coldu6tr laft aforefaid, or the Naval Officer, or any of his or-their
deputies, &c." It appeared in evidence to the Jury, upon the part
o the informants, that the Captain of the Anna, had only exhibited
ti enty hampers of porter in his official manifeft, whereasa much
greatei quantity was found on board the ihip, befides forty two
hampers landed and depofited in the flore of one Smith, and twenty
four hampers ad/ually delivered on hore to the captain himfeif, agreeably to his orders gihen fbr that purpof in the flore of the
claimants. It was proved, lik~wife, that a confiderable number of
hampers of porter, had, during the paffage, been removed from the
hold,

1787-

