380
r7.88.
L

"CAsEs 'ruled and-adjudged in'thi

pra&ice to do fo. The.prefent inquifition, being quafhed for irregularity, becomes a nullity; and -leaves the cafe juft as if none had
been taken.
PLEASANTS

verfus

MENG

et a.

JNDEBIAT7ZFJS fmpfti for goods fold and delivered &c. The
Defendants pleaded that they were pertiflcated b~nkrupts, and
that the caufle of acion arofe before the bankruptcy; to which the
" Plaintiff replied, that the certificate was unfairly obtained; and,
on the thal of the caufe, offeired teflimony in fupport of the four
following exceptions-to wit:
t. That'the debt on which the commiflion was founded, had
.been contra&ed prior to the pafling of the a& for-the regulation of
bankrupts ; 3 State Laws. 644. al&ough a bond had been given for
it fince the A& was .paffed.2. That the.petition was exhibited by oie perfon, in the name
of himfelf And his partner, without any other than the general authority of the partnerfhip ; which is hot t'ufficient for this purpofe.
3. That the Dfefendants were not copartners at the time the cornnmiflion iffued jointly againfi them. And
4. That two of the Defendants had not committed any aa of
bankruptcy prioi to the iffuing of the commifflon.
The admiflion of teflimony upon thefe points was oppofed by
the counfel for the Defendants, who contended, that the certificate
was conclufive evidence of the debt, trading, bankruptcy, and conformity ; and that fraud in'obtaining it, or a concealment of effe~1s,
were the only matters which the Plaintiff could now be allowed to
prove, according to the decifions under the 5 Geo. 2. c. -3o . which
flatute only differs, on this point, from our a& of Affembly, by the
ufe of the wordfraudu!ent, inflead of unfairly; words, however, Qf
fynonimous import. 3 State Laws 644-. fed. 24. Green B. L. 244.
245.
1 IStra. 533. Go. B. L. 352. I At/. 79- 208. 2 W7Y 140.
They urged, that.any obje&ions to the fori of proceeding could
only be taken by the bankrupts, w-to were likewile precluded by
their acceptance of a certificate. 2 8/ra. 746. 5 Burr-. .628. Term.
.Rp. 4o9, and they contro~vrted the power of the Court to unravel,
in this way,- the"decifion oi the commiffioners, whofe jurifdiaion
was competent and co.ntlufive as to all the precedihog fteps.
The Plaintiff's tounfel, havitig p~remifed generally, that where
lim:.tedjurifdilifion is eftablifhed, the Courts of common lawv are
bund to prevent any infraaion ot that limitation; 3 Black. Com.
109. and that a. Court of limitted jurifdiaion can never be
S12.
veiled with a right to determine upon the legality 5f its own aas;
bid. 112. 114.
Bac. 1br. 563. Sir. -. iay. 189. Sal' 5484-6. Cozvp. 26. contended, that the Cmmon Pkas had a
1 P.
concurrent authority with the Suprime Court to reftrain the commifgoners of bankrupts within the boundaries prefcribed.by the a& of
Atiexmbly i

COURT of COMMON PLEAS of Philadelpbia County.

381

Affembly ; and that if there was no exprefs provifion in the A& of 1788.
Parliament in England, or in the a& of Affembly here, as to the L.,
mode of afcertaining a violation of thofe boundaries, yet, by analogy to other fpecial jurisdiaions, the proceedings of the Commiffioners could not be the proof of their own legality ; but, from the
nature and reafon of the thing, that queftion mutt be examinable at
another tribunal. . Bac.-br. 653. Lev. 288. Caf. temp. Hard.x86.
145. 2 B1. Rep. 1145. 2 iJls. 5 8.-They remarked,

that, "till

the 4 Ann. c. 7.f. 7. no provifior, was made as to the manner in
which a Bankrupt lhould bring forward his difcharge ; and that,
even under that flatute, he was obliged to fet foxth all the proceedings before the Commiflioners, which eventually produced the ftatute of 5 Geo. 2. authorizing the Defendant to plead his certificate.
This, however, they infifled, only mad.e the certificate primafacie.
evidence; relieving the Defendant from the necellity of frating the
petition, trading &c. in his plea, and obliging the Plaintiffto fet
forth his exceptions in his replication. See 2 Ld. Ray. 164.6. Stra.
869. 8. C. Co. B. Z. 356. Doug. 16o.-They then citcA many authorities to fhew, that fince, as well as before,

the ftat:.te of

5 Geo. 2. c. 3o . and fubfequent to the granting the certificate, as
well as previoufzy, the debt, trading, a& of bankruptcy &c. had
all been controverted and enquired into in the Court, of 'iaw, in a
variety of forms, between a -creditor and the bankrupt, between
creditors and the affignees; and, in fhorr, between any perfons who
were interefted. 2 Stra. 744. GMp. 569. Bull. 3I. Q. B. L. 307.
314. Term. Rep. 409. 573. 7"° 2.Stra. 822. 2 Shza. IQ42. Barn.
81. 2 Bl Rep. 725. Coup. 823. Co. B. L. 348- z" Ld. Ray. 724.
x B. Rep. 70 Bull 40. Palm.. 325. Ccwp. 427. 428. r Salk. iro.
C.. 398. Bull. 39. Itk. 2o. Co. B.L. 7. Cro. E. 13. 72.
Barn. I6o. 2Stra. 809. 7 Vin. 61. pl. 14. 1 B1. Rep. 441. Co.B,
L. 74. Green. B. L. 44. 1 Burr. 467.484. &c. &.c.-They added,
that to prevent the injufhce which, in many cafes would happef
for want of a Court of Chancery, the Courts here are obliged to
deviate from the rigoyous rules of the common law, and to adopt
the principles of equity. Although in England the common law
-courts cannot enquire into the confideration of a bond, -or decree
the fpecific performance of a contra&, .yct the Courts of Equity
will do both; a ncL here, to afford a fimilar relief, wherever the
Cfiancery would order a deed to be given, our Courts, inflead, of
doing that, prefume the deed to have been a&ually given, and adThus, in the prefent cafe, the fame
judge the cufe accordingly.
reafons which would induce the Chancellor to fupercede a commillion of bankrupts, will. induce this Court to confider the commiflion as virtwAlly fuperceded.
SmrPPEN, Preident-This is an aftion brought by Samuel Pleaf,,n;s againft "fohnMeng, and three other perfons, in which the Defendants have pleaded, that they are certificated bankrupts, and thG
Plaintiff has replied, that ihe certificates were unfairly obtained.
If

382
x7 38.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

If the plea had been drawn up at large, inflead of being entered on
the docquet, it muff have been purfuan't to the a& of Affembly,
"that the caufe of a&tion did accrue before fuch time as he became
"a bankrupt ;" and the certificate is made by the a& only a matter
of evidence.
The queftion, now to be.decided, is, whether, upon a trial at
law, the creditor of a bankrupt may give evidence to controvert the
trading bankruptcy, and conformity ? Or, whether the certificate
isconcluive proof of all the proceedings before the Commiflioners :
And in this cafe it is fortunate that the a& of Altembly nearly purfues the words of the ftatute of 5 Geo. 2. c. 30 for, the analogy of
the law muft greatly ftrengthen the application of the authorities,
and facilitate the decifion of the Court.
The claufe, on which the argument arifes, is thts expreffed
both in the Englfif ftatute, and the a& of Pennfylvatna: "And, in
cafe futh bankrupt lhall afterwards be impleaded for any debt
"due before he became a bankrupt, fuch bankrupt fhall be dif"charged upon common bail, and iay plead in general, that the
" caufe of a~tion did accrue before fuch time as he became a bank"iupt ; and the certificate of fuch bankrupt's conforming and the
" allowance thereof, fhall be fufficient evidence of the trading,
" bankruptcy, commiflion, and other proceedings precedent to the
aobtaining fuch certificate, unlofs the Plaintif can prove the faid
"certificate was obtained unfairly, or make appear any concealment
by fuch bankrupt to the value- of Fifteen Pounds."
Certain it is, that from the r3 Eliz. c. 7. (at which time Commillianers of bankrupts were appointed in England) until the palfing
of the 5 Geo. 2. a-period of about 2o years, there is no infance
that ever the proceedings of the Commiffioners, when called for,
were not reviled and corre&ed in the Courts of Law. By the ftatute 5 Gee. r. c. 24. the bankrupt's certificate might be given in
evidence, and was dire&ed to be a full difcharge of any a&ion that
Thould be brought by any credicor of fuch bankrupt; yet, it appears
by the cafe in i .5tra. 533. that it was ftill neceflhry to prove the
a:&of bankruptcy, belides producipg the certificate ; becaufe the
words, fuch bankrupt, related to fuch perfon as was defcribed in the
ftatute. Under that flatute, therefore, the certificate was fo far
from being conclufive evidIence, that it was not fufficient, without
other proot, to ihew that he was an obje& of the a6l, by being a
trader, and having committed an a& of bankruptcy.
What then was the alteration introduced -by the 5 Geo. -2.
c. 30?
It had been found very inconvenient to compel a bankrupt, as oftenL
as he was fued, to enter into a proof of all the circumftances which
had already been proved before the Commiffioners: This ftatute,
therefore, ena,&ed, that "the certificate hould be fufi:ent evidenoe
of the trading, bankruptcy, commiffion, &c." and here, ex vi termini, we muff infer that this was not the cafe before, as the word
fufftient naturally refpe&s what had been hitherto infficient. The
flatute, however, -does not declare, that the certificate fhall be
incontrovertible,

COURT of COMMON PLEAS of Philadelphha Ceunly.

383

incontrovertible, or conclufive, evidence, but, in rendering it fuffi- z78.
cient evidence of certain fa&s, which the Bankrupt was before under
the neceffity of eftablifhing by fpecific proofs, it has merely transferred the burthen from him to the creditor, with whom it now"
lies to prove, according to the terms of our a& of Affembly, that
the certificate was unfairly obtained.
That-the certificate was unfairlyobtained, is, indeed, an expreffion attended with fome ambiguity ; but it mult have refpea to the
fubje& matter, which was the trading, bankruptcy, commiff-on, &c.
-And, if a mzn had nt been a trader, or, if he had not committed
an a& of bankruptcy, it was unfair to grant him a certificate :-So
that unfair is tantamount to illegal; holding equally with the converfe of the propofition, that a certificate illegally muft be unfairly,
obtained.
If the Pailiament of England intended to make fo effentia" a
change in the bankrupt fyftem, as to leave the proceedings of the
Commiflioners without controul, or appeal, it would be firange
that no fironger, no clearer expreflion, was employed for tLat purpole ; and, if fuch was indeed their fenfe, it muff appear ifilI more
1irange, that the Courts of Law have been" fo far from underflanding it, that in every cafe fince the g'affling of the ftatute, they have
permitted the fame inveftigation which was before allowed. In.
Coup. 823. it appears, that a Bankrupt, having obtained a certificate under aftcond Commiflion pending a former one, un(:er which
a certificate nad been refufed, an application was made for an Exoneretur to be entered on the bail-piece; but the Jfudges pronounced
the fecond commifflon to be abfolutely void, and difcharged the rule.
to flhew caufe. Now, if the certifieate were conclufive, this decifion was illegal; for, the certificate is as much evidence of the commiflion, as of the trading and bankruptcy; and its validity was a
queftion, equally before the Commiffiloners, whofe fan&ion -it had
received.
It is clear, therefore, in every view, from the words of the lav.
and from judicial interpretations of its meaning, that the Legiflature
has only made the certificate evidence; and the nature of evidence
neceffarily implies an adverfe right to controvert and repel. A
foreign judgment is allowed to be prima facie evidence of a debc,
and yet it was adjudged to be open to examination; for, as I have
already hinted, although fome kinds of evidence are ftronger than
other kinds, yet, in that refpe6l, they are all placed on the fame
footing. Doug. z.
. But there is a general confideration, independent of the aa of
Affembly and the authorities; which is, that the matters determined by the Commiflioners are certainly matters of law, arifing
from the-fa6ts; as, what*avocation confitutes a trader, or what
condua amounts to Qn a& of bankruptcy: Would it not then be
a ftraiaed and unreafonable thing to fuppofe, that the Legiflature
has eitablifhed a jurifdiffion of this fort, competent to ducide qucftions of the greateft magnitude in their ope'ration, and yet, that
thzcr

184

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

" there fhould be no appeal to examine its proceedings, no power to
corre& its errors !-We are happy, indeed; in knowing that our
decifion's, if erroneous, may be re&ified in the.Supreme Court; the
adjudications of which are alfo liable to the ultimate fcrutiny of
the High Court of Errors and Appeals. And, I repeat) is it not abfurd, therefore, to imagine, that the limitted jurifdi&ion of the Commiflioners of Bankrupts is alone exempted from controul ; or, that
men, unlkilled in jurisprudence, however upright in their general condu&, and intelligent in their particular arts and profeflions,
lhould enjoy an abfolute authority in the difcuflion and determination of every nice point of law, which is incident to the extenfive
and intricate invefltigations of the bankrupt fyftem F
For thefe reafons, THE COURT are unanimoufly of opinion,
that the evidence offered by the Plaintif, ought to- be received.

The cafe, upon the evidence, appe.ired to be this :-The Defendants, John Meng, MJilliam Goodwin, James Smith, and
Robert Cumming, had been copartners in trade under the firm of
John Meng and Co. On the 26th of April 1785, Goodwin alone, in
the name of himfelf and his partners, executed an affignment of all
theirperfoiialpropertyto Curtis Clay et al. in truft for the benefit of
the partnerfhip creditors : And, on the 3 oth of the fame month,
he executed another affignment, in the fame form, and for the fame
ufe, of all the real eftate of the company. On the 25th of "7unefollQwing, a third afligriment was executed by Mng, Goodwin, and
Cummings, of all the real and perfonal eftate of the partners to
truftees, for the fame ufe; at which time the Defendants were indebted to the Plaintiff (among others) and to M fl's. Rofe and
Dickens (who afterwards became the petitioning creditors) to a
confiderable amount. After thefe tranfaaions, about the beginning of Yuly, 1786, Ming opened a ftore in Philadelphia under the
old firm of John Meng and Co. in which, however, the meffnger of
the company only found a fmall quantity of foap, and a buadle of
paper money; but Cummings was gone to Georgia to colLb& debts
tinder the direftion of the allianees, and Goodwin and Smith refided
and kept a ftore at Cooper's Ferry, in New-7erfey. On the Lft of
Augufl, 1786, a joint commiflion of bankrupts againft all the four
partners as traders by retail, ifflued upon the petition of R~fe, who
alone .fubfcribed it in behalf of himfelif and his partner Dickens,
having previoaifly fworn that John Meng and CQ.-were indebted wc
them on a bond bearing date the 8th of 'uly, 1786; payable on the
x5 th of the fame month ; which bond, it was admitted, had been
given for the precedent debt du& at the time of the affignment of
the 25 th June, 1285. It was alfo agreed that Meng and Cummings
had

CounT of CoMMON

PLEAS

of Philadphia County-. 385

had committed aEts of bankruptcy ; and, with refpe& to the other
two partners, it appeared from the minutes of the Commiffioners
of bankrupts, that the Sheriff's Officer, having a Ca. Sa. againft
all tour at the fuit of Bfe and Dickens, had made enquiries for
Smith and.Goodziu at the place where Meng kept his ftore in Philadelphia, and at the Ferry-houfe from which they ufually croffed to
New Jerfey, but could not find them ; that they had reqxefted the
Ferry-man to.keep a boat in readinefs for them, for fear of a writ
being iffued againrf them ; that the Ferry-man," obferving the approach of the Sheriff's Officer, gave them notice; that thereupon
they concealed themfelves in the Ferry-houte, faying that they did
not ike to go to Gaol, but wotld be able to pay all their debts;
and that foon afterwards they croffed the river to elude the purfuit
of the officer.
On thefe fals, the Plaintiffs counfel contended,-x ft,
That the
debt of the petitioning creditor was not within the bankrupt law,'
which provides, that the debt, on which the commifflion iffues,
'fhall have arifen upon a contra& or tranfa6tio, fubfequent to the
paffing of the a&." 3 State Laws 644.f 7. 3. But here the bond
could be given for no other purpofe than. to make the Defendants
bankrupts; and, although it may extinguifh, it cannot change the
original nature of the debt. The do'rine of extingiuiflhment at
common law, is, indeed, more limitted than the adverfe counfel
-will admit; for,. although a fedurity of Afuperior nature will alter
the remedy, the debt itfelf remains. 6 CO. 44. 7. Rep. 17. Barn.
S . 1 Ttra. 1o42, Cafes emp. Hard.267. And the do&rine which
applies in the laft cafe to fupport the commiffion there, applies to
prove the invalidity of the one at prefent in controverfy. Befides,
an a& between obligor and obligee, that tends to the injury of
other perfons, the law deems a fraud, by which, fo far, at leaft,
it is vitiated and annulled, i Burr. 474. 3 Co. 8o. The bond of
the petitioning creditor therefore, taken in every point of view, was
infufficient to found a commifflion ; for, whether it was given without a confideration, or in confideration of a precedent debt, -it is
equally contrary to the a& ; and, if it is regarded as a frafidulent
collufion between the petitioning creditor and the bankrupts, although it may be obligatory upon them, it is void as toa third perfon.-See Term. Rp-. 406. Doug. 282.
2. The petition and affidavit of Rofe alone, notwithfanding it
is faid to be on behalf of himfelf and his partner Dickens, was alfo
irregular and illtgal. There are, perhaps, no exprefs decifions on.
this point ; but, upon general priticiples, he who a&s for another
muft fhew his authority ; and, in the,cafe of partners, for apurpofe
of this nature, all muft fubfcribe the petition, or delegate an exprefs.
power to another for doing it in their name ; a point already determined in this Court, in the cafe of' Gerard.v,BaJse et al.ant. 119.
This is not an a that can be in contemplation in the bufinefs of
a partnerfhip ; .and the reafor. is the ftronger againfk allowing it,
Ccc
as

1788.

326

CAtEs ruled aid adjudged in the

178S. as a bond muit be given by the petitioning creditor. 3 State Law:.
td644.
Jed-"3"1 I
3. But the commiflion itfelf has iffued erroneoufly' and illegally;
for the Defendants were not partners at the time it iffued; and a
joint commiflion can only iffue againf" partners, The affignment
of the 25th of rune, 1785, divefted all their partnerfhip flock,* and,
confequently, diffolved their joint "conne&ion ; for, partnerfhips
may be diffolved by tokens, &c. or, they neceffarily ceafe with the
obje&s of their infiitution. 1 Domat. Jib. x. tit. 8. par. xo i i.fel,
5; pa. 155, But, although there was no formal, diffolution of the
partnerfhip, it is clear that the fecond trading was merely colourable, for the purpofes of a bankruptcy ; and they are deftribrd to
be traders by retail, which cannot'relate to their former general
partnerfhip, but to the recent colouirable tradirng. To carry on'
bufinefs after a man's effe&s are gone, is, in itfelf, a fraud. Co B.
L.8 o. 81. 82. f Burr. 478. 2 Black .Rep. 996 362.
4. In a joint commiflion, all the -parties mull have committed
ads of bankruptcy. Co. B. L. 4. I Ak. 97. The certificate, therefore, can be ot no avail, at leaft, as to Goodwin and Smith, who
never committed ads of bankruptcy. In crofling the river, although
they Laid it was to avoid an arreft, they were only returning to their
bome ; and'abf;:onding, in order to conflitute an at of bankruptcy,
muff be from the ufual place of abode, where the party does bufinefs; which, in the prefent cafe, was in New Yerfey, whither they
In Co.
retreated, and not in PennJjlvania, where the writ itiued.
B. L. 71. it is aid, that, it a man flies from the State to which he
belongs, this is an ad of bankruptcy : but here the parties did not
fly from, but to, their State, or home; and a denial, or keeping
houfe, to bing a man within the ad, muft be at his own place of
refidence, not at the refidence of another perfon. lbid. 74. Nor
can an ad be made an ad of bankruptcy by analogy ; it muft be
fuch as is within the law; and there is no cafe where a fl1ranger,
in another State, has been deemed a bankrupt for returning to his
home, in order to avoid an arreft where, probably, he could not
obtain bail ; or fora temporary concealment in another's houfe for
the fame reafon.
The Counfel for the Defendant flated, that, if the prefent objed'ions were fuccefsful, they would be equally fata to almoft
every other certificate which had been granted under the a& of Affembly ; for, nine out of ten of the commiflions of bankrupts had
originated in the fame manner, upon debts either revived by new
They then confecurities, or created in concert for the occafion.
tended-i. That the original fimple contradl debt was merged in
the bond, 6 Co. 44. that if both parties agree to bring the debt in
this fhape within'the a&, the provifo in the thirdfeeh. is fatisfied ;
and that the bond was not taken after the bankruptcy, which diftinguifhes this from the cafe in Rep. Temp. Hard. 267.
2. That, on the ihcond point, te a& of one partner, is the ad
of all in commercial matters; that one partner may bring a fuit a,
law

COURT of COMMON PLEAS

of Philade ia County.

387

law tor the joint debt, or hold the Defendant to bail upon his fole
affidavit; and that the cafe of Gerardv. Bafse et aL does not apply,l
as it did not turn upon a commercial tranfa&ion, but upon an inItrument under feal, which can only bind the perfon that executes it.
3. That there was no difrolution of the partnerfhip between the
Defendants 4 tat the ftore kept by Meng in Philadephia,was evidently, from She teftimony, a continuance of the old connexion ;
and that the amount of the joint flock, whether large or fmall,
could not afe~&the queftion. See r T. _7ones. 141.
4. That all the Defendants were enqttired for where they carried
on their trade, at Meng's houfe; that Smith and Gsodwin denied and
concealed themfelves at the Ferry-hoafi, and exprefsly faid, that
they were going offrto avoid the arrefi ; that an abfconding out of
the State, equally affe&s a firanger and an inhabitaht ; and that
even a departure, with an intent to delay a creditor, is a fufficient
a& of bankruptcy.. See 2 Stra. 809. Palm. 125. Co. B. L. 74. *
The PRtsIDZN,. having again noticed-the caufe of a&ion, and
the' ftate of the pleadings, proceeded in delivering, the following
charge to the jury :
SfiiPPEN, Prefident.-A bankrupt law, in a trading country,
rnufl be produ6tive of many benevolent and beneficial confequences.
When an unfortunate Irader has fairly and honefily furrendered all
his property for the ufe of his creditors, the Legiflature certainly
intended, that he fhould be efiecleally difcharged from all his debts
and left at liberty to acquire new fubflance: and there are many in-"
flances in England, where, by this encouragement, bankrupts have
been enabled, not only to extricate themfelves and their families
from the calamities that oppreffed them, but to iridulge an honorable difpofition in paying thofe obligations, from which they were
thus, by law, exonerated.
It has often happened, however, that, on the other hand, the
bankrupt a&s have been perverted to the iniquitous purpofes 6t
fraud and embezlement ; and, therefore, it is requifite, that, olt
every occafion, the flri~Lefl fcrutiny fhould take place. With this
view, our da&of Affembly, correfponding with the Englb flatute,
dire&s Commiflioners to be appointed, who, having received the
neceffary proofs of the party's being a trader, and of the commiffion of an a& of bankruptcy, are amply empowered .to inveftigate
the bankrupt's condu6t, and to compel adiscloftire and furrender of
all his property; and, when that is fatisfa&orily done, they arc
authorized and required to gran.t him a certificate of his conformity
to the law. In 'ngland, thts certificate, (which, 'when fairly obtained, is itcc.apleat difcharge and releafe from all the former debts
Ccc 2
.of
Mly abfence from Court during a great part of the defence, irnfortunately

prevents my fPating it more at llrge.
from dhe arguments of -r. F/mw.

What is here publiibed is principally takip

I788.

388
1788.

L

-.

CAsrs ruled and adjudged in the

of the bankrupt) 'cannot be granted without the donfent of four

fifths in value of the creditors; but, in P.anfyJvania, the granting
it refts entirely with the Commiffiontrs ; andthere is no check upon
its operation,- but that it muff be firft allowed by the Prefident of
the Supreme Executive Council, under the great Seal of the Commonwealth.
In the cafe under confideration, the Conimiffioners have-granted,
and the Prefident has allowed, a certificate in favor of the Defendants; but four exceptions have been taken to the proceedings on
which the certificate is founded, in order to maintain the Plaintiff's
a&ion, which is brought for the recovery of a debt contraaed before the aS of bankruptcy. The Court being of opinion that the
evidence in fupport of thefe exceptions ought to be fubmitted to
the Jury, it now only remains to confider, whether the exceptions
themfelves are fufficient, in law, to defeat the benefit which the Defendants claim from the certificate.
c. In thefirfl place, it is faid, that the debt of the petitioning
creditors, was not fuch as warranted the iffuing of the commiflon ;
for, it was contra&ed before the aS of Affembly for the regulation
of bankruptcy, although a bond of a fubfequent date was given for
it: And the Plaintiff 's counfel have contended, that this relation
between the bond and the former debt is fufficient to take the cafe
out of the a&. On the part of the Defendants, however, it is infifted, that the original debt was extinguifled by the bond, which
they alledge, is the creation of a new debt, fo as to fatisfy the provifo in the 3 fd7. of the law.
The general dotrine of extinguifhment is, at this day, well
fettled and underifood. If a creditor upon a promiffory note, or
book account, accepts a bond for the amount from his debtor, this,
debt, and
being a fecurity of a higher nature, extinguifles the fier;
the creditor cannot afterwards fue upon the note, or account but
muff proceed for the recovery of his money upon the bond alone.
There is, however, no authority precifely in point to the queffion
3aow agitated; but the determination in Cafs temp., Hard.267. is
thought by the Plaintiff's counfel to be in a great degree analogous.
On that occafion a bond had been taken after an aS of bankruptcy,
(of which. the obligee had no notice) for a fimple contraa debt due
before, and as any debt that accrues after an aS of bankruptcy is
not entitled to a dividend, the Chancellor there confidered the debt
as it 6riginally flood, in order to give the benefit of it to a creditor,
who would otherwife have been excluded, without any default on
his part, "froma difiributive fhare of the bankrupts elfh1s. This
cafe, therefore, it is obje6led by the Defendant's counfel, muff
have depended upon the peculiar circumfiances in which it was involved ; and that this appears the more evidently,, as Lord. Hardguicke exprefsly fays, that, between the parties themfelves, the bond
would operate as an extinguifhment of the precedent debt. There
can be no doubt, indeed, that many ofthe cafes on this fubje& have
been determined, by the. particulr circumflances thatattended them;
for,

Coutrt of COMMOX

'LEAS of Philalphia County.

3 9

for, we find, that a.tranfaaion of a fimilar nature with that jihft 17 98.
citdd, but prefented in a different point of view, was decided di- refly the other way. Trm. Rep. 705. A bankrupt, after adnaft
of bankruptcy committed, had given a bond with warrant to confefs judgment to one of his creditors for a debt due before tze :t& of
bankruptcy: the judgment was entered and a Ca. Sa. iffued. Afterwards the bankrupt obtained his certihcate, and moved to be difcharged from this execution, alledging that the caufe of afion arofe
prior to the a& of bankruptcy; but the Court in this cafe decided,
that the bond was an extinguifliment of the old debt, and, accordingly, derfied the motion.
But there are many reafons which might be urged td diffinguifli
the prefent cafe from that determined by Lord Hardwicke. When
the bond was given by the Defendants to Rofe and Dickens, no ae
of bankruptcy-had been committed; no dividend was to be claimed;
no perfons, but the parties themfelves, were inte'refted; and, as
nothing appears to preclude the idea that this was a voluntary exchange of fecurities, certain it is, that after'the acceptance of the
bond, Rof and Dickens could never have recovered upon the original
debt. rn all thefe refpe&s, therefore, there is a material difference
between the authority cited, and the cafe in controverfy ;-a ditference which feems ftronglv to fupport the argument ot the D--.
fendant's counfel, that the bond was an extinguithment of the preceding debt.
Even, however, if the law is doubtful, from the frequency of
the pra&ice of entering into voluntary bonds, for the very purpofz
ot obtaining a commiffion, I flhould be unwilling to recommend it
to the Jury, on that ground alone,'to invalidate the certificate:
And; therefore, as wt have indeed no pofitive rule to guide us, but
the whole refis on an implication arifing from the cafes, the Jury
muft decide for themfelves. I will only add on this obje&ion, that
the Legiflature probably introduced the provifo in the third feaion
(with, I prefume, a view particularly to foreigners) in order to
evince, that it was not intended to abrogate all former contra's and
obligations : And, as it is only the debt of the petitioning creditor
that muff be fiubfequent to the pafling of the a& (for, the commif(ion having iffued, all debts prior, as welL as fubfequent, 'are included) no great mifchief can enfue from this reftrit-tion, or from
the method which has been generally taken to bring the debt o"
the petitioning creditor withir, the words of the law.
2. ThefrcondobjeEtion is, that a petition fubfcribed by one of
two partners, in tha name of himfelf and partner, is not a legai
ground for iftuing a commiffion ; and this is faid to be fupported
by a decifion 6f this Court, in the cafe of Gerard v. Rafse et al.
(ant. ig.) There can be no doubt of the legality of that decilion. A bond is technically termed a deed; and the do6krine with
refpe" "o the efficacy of a deed, flands upon its own footing; none
being bouund by it, but the perfons who a6tually execute it. Ii
aommercial watters, however, the a& of one partner is the a- of.
both;

390
T788.
k

CAss ruled. and adjudged in the

both; and, therefore, it is neceffary to confider, whether. the petition -ofa creditor to obtain a commiflion, is moft like a deed; or a
commercial a&. It appears to me, indeed, to bear a firong refem.
blance to an a&ioa at law; and -as one partner may inititute a fuit,
and the oath of one will be fuficient to effablifh the debt on a queftion of bail, I cannot conceive any fatisfaftory reafon, why more
hould be required for the purpofes of the bankrupt law: and,
therefore, in my opinion, this obje&ion ought- not to weigh with
the Jury..
3. The third obje6lion a'rgues, that the partnerihip that fublifted between the Defendants, had been virtually diffolved by the
general affignment of their property; and that, therefore, a joint
commifflion could not iffue againff them. I have not had time to
examine the authorities upon this point, but, I believe, the doetrino
to be well founded, that there muft be a fubfifting partnerfhip at
the time a joint commiflion is taken out, and it feems alfo reafonable, to infer.the diffolution of a partnerfhip from an a&, by which
all its obje&s are alienated and transferred,
The barely executing
an affignment, however, of the flock in trade, if the joint tranfa&ions are not at an end, will not be an a&ual diffolution of the
partnerfhip ; for, where there -is no exprefs agreement to make
that diliblution, the affignment can only be confidered as circumftantial evidence of it, which the Defendant is -at liberty to repel
by cortrary proof.
Whether, therefore,, the trading fubfequent to the general afignment was fiaitious, and mcrely for the purpofes of a'bankruptcy, as the Plaintiff contends; or, whether it. was a continuance
of the former copartnerthip, as the Defendants alledge, muft depend upon the tas,on which it is the province of the Jury to decide.. It-they fhould think that the old partnerfhip war diffolved,
and no new one contra&ed, then there was not any legal origin
fbr the joint commifflon ;-to found a commiflion upon a fi6itious
partnerfhip .being certainly nfair. But, if, on the other hand,
there was really a partnerlhip between the Defendants at the time
of their bankruptcy, neither the previous aflignment of their effC'&s-,
nor the fmallnefs 'of the quantity of goods in their ftore. (a matter
only ;o be confidered as circumftantial evidence of a fi~Litious trad"ing) can have any effed Upon the cafe to invalidate the commiffiony
or'to defeat the certificate.
4. The fourth obje&ion'is, that two of the Defendants, Goodwin and Smith, -havenot committed a6ls.ofbankruptcy ; and, therefore, it is argned, that the verdid of the Jury mufl, at leaft, be
againft them. As there perfons refided in Neu,Jerfey, it is laid,
in 'fupport of -this objedion, that Meng"s ftore, Pr the Frrry-houfe,
(at both which they were denied, and at the ]aft place they concealed
themfelves from the Sheriff's officer) cannot be deemed their home,
fo as to fatisfy the words of the a&, in defcibiLng an iA of 'bankruptcy, by "beginning to keep houfe " of which the uffial proof
is certainly, a demand and denal. Under the decifions in England
(and

CoURwr of CoMmoN PLEAS of PhiladelphiasCounty.

39!

(and our law i& fubje& to the fame confiruaion) a perfon who refides in a foreign country, trades to that kingdom, and atterwards
goes thither, is clearly within the ifatute.
It is true, that, conIidering the mere phrafe, it feems abfurd to fay, that a man keeps
his houfe, who has, in fa&, no houfe to keep, and yet there is a
cafe exprefsly to that point, where a man, having no home of his
own, was held to lhave committed an ad of bankruptcy by keeping
houfe in the dwelling-of another.
But the Defendants counfel have controverted this 6bje&ion
upon the ground of a departure out of the State; which, they fay,
applies as well to a flranger as an inhabitant ; while, in behalt of
the Plaintiff, it is contended, that, as the only proof of a depar-ture by Goodwin and Smth, is that of going to their own hbufe in
New -erey, this cannot, upon principle or precedent, be confirued
into an ad of bankruptcy. From the evidence, it xppcars, - that a
writ had iffued againfi the four Defendants, of which all of them
had notice; two of them, it is agreed, committed a&s of bankruptcy, and the other two, being enquired for at the flore of Meng,
and Alfo at the Ferry-houe, where they had ordered a. boat to be
ready, for the exprefs purpofe of avoiding an arreft, did adually
quit the State upon hearing that the Sheriff's officer was in-purfuit
of them. This condu&, in the common cafes of a refident, wouldi
undoubtedly, amount to an ad of bankruptcy, for, it has often
been determined, that, if a man goes from home but a day, iR
order to delay or defraud his creditor, it is fuflicient to bring him
within the flatute.
Whether, however, the fiighf of a firarilger to:
his own home in another State, is fuch a departure as the law intends, the cafes have left in great obfcurity ; or the only principle
afcertained by them, is, that the departure mutt be- with a view to
delay or defratd; and the ad of Parliament itfelf contains no
diffindion. of the nature now contended for. On fo doubtful a
point, tharefore, the Court would rather, at this time, leave the
decilion at large to the jury, than venture a pofitive opinion.
Such then are the objedtions on which the Plaintiff ihfifts that*
his adion is maintainable ; and, if, upor the whole, the Jury think
he has proved (is it is incumbent upon him to do) that the certificate has becn unfrirly pbrained ; either becaufe the'commiffion
ought not to have ifued, or that the certificate ought-not to havo
been granted, their verditd mutt be in his favor.
But, if, on tha
contrary, there has been no illegal or unfair methods purfued by
the Defendants to obtain their certificate, they are difcharged from
the Plaintiff's demand, and theverdid mull be for them.
After flaying. out fome time, the Jury returned to the bar, ana
declared that they could not agree in a verdid ; whereupon they
were difmiffed by confent of the parties, and a I'enirefacias de nova
awarded. *
FAREL
I1 have been informed by Mr. rngerfoIl, one of the Plaintiff's cunfel, that his
Client, a&ing on thts oecallan upon motives of public ipirt, "was fatisfied with.

having obtained the opinion of the Court in favor of the right to invctigate tho
proceedings before the Commiflioners of bankrupts, &c. upon a trial at law ; andi
that, therefore, probably, this adion would ndver be profecuted further.

