SuM

CouRT Of Penfylvala.

tifed and necerfary in deeds at common law fo pars an inheritance, 1785.
that in all deeds the word heirs is neceffary to pafs a fee; this is the
general rule, and though there are exceptions, yet this fpecies of.
conveyance to pfes is not among them; which appears ift, from
the filende of 'approved writers on this fubje&. To fhew which
he cited, 2 Black io8. Bac. Ahr. 252. 3. Comyn's Di&#?. 214,
ShepherdsTouchlone of aurances,fo. 1oL. (97, ofnew edition) Co. Lit.
9. 2dly. From a variety of exprefs and pofitive authorities. 3 Black.
.370. Co. 87 -b. Co. Lit. io. a. Shepherd's Touc f. io2. io6. i Gomyn's Dig. 543 x Co.'Rep. ioob. Gilbert's Ufes nd 5lru. s 75. 76.
And dy, that words, effential to convey a tee in a deed at commbn law, are neceffary fince the flatute of ufes, 27 Hen. 8 ch. io.
in a covenant to fland feized to ufes. To prove whichie cited
Bacon 357" 1 Rolls Abr.837. Cro. E. 478. 2 Lill. Reg. 112. Sir Thomas Raym. 37. 2 Ld. Raym. 115i. 2. 4. Uc.
We have fince heard the counfel for- the dcf'endant in anfl'er,
who chiefly dwelt upon th decd of 174.3 having a relation to the
eflate which the covenantor had, that he having a fee, had by relative words conveyed that fee to his fon ; and they relied upon 2
CGomyns 215. Shep. Touch7. ior. Co. Lit. 9. 1.
Upon the whole, THF COURT have, uninimoufly, formed the
fame c' inion as the Plainiff's counfel, after the molt mature confideration.
i,. This deed is a covenant to fland feized to ufes.
2. Before the flatute of ufes, viz. 27 Hen. 8. ch. io, this deed
would have paffed a fee, i C. Rep. 'oo b. Shaleys cafe, though the
word heirs is not init, But fince that flatute, the limitation of ufes
is in many cafes governed by the rules of common law; and no
inheritance, in a covenant'to fhand feizcd to ufes, or other deed to
ufes, can be raifed, or new eflate created, without the word Ie;rs;
becaufe the ufes are now transferred into poflflfion, and therefore
muft begoverned by the roles of poffeflon at common law. 5 .3,:con's.Ahr. 350. 356. and the cafes there cited. And at common
law, thotigh the intent of the parties be ever fo fully expreffed and
manifdled in a grant or other deed, without the word heirs, a fee
Thall not pals. 6 Mod. rog./2 P7ey 252. 1 ffilon 351. 2 BarkV.
. Reports.
3 dly. There are n6 words in this deed, either technical or relative, that can raile a. fee, and cbnftquently Abraham P'andegrift had
ther.by only an eftate for life in the premifes.
Let judgment be entered for t'he Plaintiff.

M'CULLP*iM ve fus COXE.

T"'J

jury were at the bar to try the ifibe in this cafe, w'en
Levy moved to difcontinue, in confequence of a power of attorney granted by the plaintiff for that purpofe. But it was oppofed by .ngerjoll in Dehalf of General Forman, to whom, for a valuable
S 2
confideratioa

140

1785..

CASs

ruled and adjudged &c.

confideration, the Plaintiff had affigned the debt, and the defendant
.had undertaken to pay it to him ac~ordingly.
Thefe faas being made to appear, THE 0COURT faid they would
not d1low any, collulive fettlenent between the original parties, to
affec General Forman's bona fide affignment, and ordered the jury
to be fw6rn. And M'KEAN, Chiefruf.ice, obferved, that where an
a&ion was broug.t under fuch circumfiances, it ought to be mentioned upon the docket for whofe ufe ; a pra&ife which -had always
prevailed when he was at the bar.

MoRRis verfus DE MARS.
T was ruled in this cafe, that a relation of a fuperior and inferior officer, does not, of itfelf, bind the former to pay the contra&s of the latter, whether in the ftaff or Iine. But if the inferior
officer had an authority to contra&l, and having obtained monsy for
the ufe of the army, applied it accordingly, in fuch cafe THE
COURT inclined to think, that the fiperior would be liable for
the debt, provided he had fufficient public funds to difcharge it.

