4.30
Z789.
"_.-J

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

deeds or other writings, which are not the immediate foundation
of-the fuit, but only leading-to it, may be read.
We are all, therefore, of opinion, that a new trial ought not to
'ke granted.
Judgment for the Plaintiff.

OXLEY et al. verfus

OLD'DEN.

T

H I Scaufe had been referred, and. the Referees, having examined the evidence in prefence of both parties, agreed upon
their report; but-. about an hour before it was delivered into
Court (though it was figiie..the preceding day) *). B. M'K an, on
behalf of the Defendant, had obtained a rule to fhew caufe, why
the rule of reference thould not be firuck off.
There was no charge of irregularity or partiality againff the Refrees; and, after argument by Lewis for the Plaintiffs, and Ingcrlol
adad .7. Bo M'KAean for the Defendant. the rule to fhew caufe was
difcharged.
And

*M'KEA'\,

Chief

Yuiflice,

obferved, that the motion was

much tob late to annul the reierence, -when the Referces had inveftigated the whole tranfaaion, had agreed upon their report, and
were clear from any imputation of mifcondu&, or any precipitancy
in refutfing to hear the teftimony offered by either party.

LEVINr

verfus WILL.

THIS
aetion was tried at Juy term 1788, when, by confent.
a verdi& was given for the Plaintiff, for the fum of t68 . 57

with fix pence cofts, fubje& to the opinion of te Court on the
following fa&s:- "The Plaintiff executed and acknowledged a mortgage on the 3 d
day.of ptemher 1782, which was recorded on the 3 oth of O17obei-,
1783.. The mortgaged premiffes being fold by the Defendant, then
Sheriff of the city and county of Philadelpbia, the ballance, after
dedu&ing the fum for which the land had been fold, was paid to
the mortgagee. Afterwards, to wit, on the 16th of Yuly,, 1785,
the Plaintiff made-an afflgnmenr of all his property for the ufe of
all his creditors, and the aflignees bring this affion, in b;- name,
to recover the money thus paid over to the mortgagee.
" If the Court thall beof opinionwith the Defend.,ant or theforegoing cafe, then judgment fhall be entered for him; otherwife
judgment to Itand for -the Plaintiff for the fum. fpecified in the
verdi&."
The

