CQURT of CoNITIofi PLEAS, Pbiladepbia County.

x45

modes prefcribed in England. This ac exprefsly confines the re- 1785,
itiedy of the mortgagee to the recovery of the principal and inferefo -- ,- d
due on the mortgage ; and the proceedings under the law fhew the
uniform conftruafion of it. The Scz're Fadeas is to fhew zaufe why
the land liould not be fold for payment of the principaland interefI
due on the mortgage, When judgment is obtained, the levari facaas is to levy the principaland inter$#I money only. There is no penalty, no judgmgnt for a penalty, and we might as well rcfufe to
flay proceedings in a fuit on afingli bill, till a fubfequent debt was
difcharged, as in this cafe of a mortgage. Upon the execution in
both cafes, no more can be levied than the principal and interell.
Rule made abfolute.

BROWN

R

-Verfus ScoTT et al.

ULE to fhev caufe why the report of referrees flould not be
Lfet afide. The faas were thefe :-Four affions had been
brought upon four promifory notes, aud the parties, being willing
to refer them, by a written agreement entered a fifth aation on
the docket, in order to take in another note, which had become
due fince the return of the preceeding writs; and accordingly the
whole were referred to perfons nominated by the Court, a rule for
that purpofe being taken out in each affion. The parties were
heard before the Teferrees, and the report agreed upon, when a dif-:
ficulty occurred, how t6 apportion the rum that was found due, or
in what manner to make the report, if it was not apportioned. The
teferrees, therefore, applied to a gentleman of the lawv, who advifed
them to connett the five rules, and make one general report, for the
whole fum. Conformably to this advice, the following report vas
made. " We the referrees appointed in the annexed five ruleg of
Court to hear and determine the matters in 'variance between
plaintiff and defendants it1 the five feveral aetions commenced by
the former againft the latter, do adjudge that the defendants are
"indebted to the plaintiff 41301, 3, 11, hnd that the fame ought
to be iaid accordingly.". All the referrees figned the report, and
two of them attended in Court, and gave teffintony, that both parties were fully and patiently heard, and no obje&ions were made,
on either fide, to the mode of proceeding. Nor was there any
fuggetior in the courfe of the argum'ent, that the referrees had
a~ed with partiality, injuftice, &c.
.
The motion was fupported by Ingerfol, Coulthurfl and Heatly, for
the defendants, and they contended, that the report was -neither
certain, mutual, ngr final.
ift. For that th report fays 4x30, 3, ir, is to be paid "a.cirdingly"-accordingly to what? the mode of payment was a
part of the difpute; and this was left uncertain.
t
sd. F-,r

1461785.

C.&sns ruled and adjudged in the.

2d: For that the report contains no dire&ibns that thefe notes

hould"be delivered up; and as defendant cannot apply to

2Court Of

Chancery, as he might in England, for an injunaion, they may fiI
be circulated, and in the hands of a kbnaflde indorfee, fo that the defendant may be compelled to pay the money over again; confequently the report is neither mutual, norfinal,Cro. 7. 315. Cro. C.
i12. z B. -44. 304. 2 B. M.
3 d.

1224.

Doug. 362. 5. Bae. 289. 313-

The reports of referrees under the a& of Affembly are acknowledged to bedifferent-from awards at common law; but in
fa& there is little difference between them and verdi&s. If, therefore, thefe a&ions had been tried by a jury, and a verdi& given fimilar to this report, no judgment could be given on it. Co. Lit. 227.
Hob. 49. 8tra. 1024. For on what a&ion can the Court award execution, or how can they apportion the fums?
lWifon, Sergeant and Sitgreaves, for the plaintiff, were defired by
the Court to confine themfielves to the laj obje&ion, as the fir1
was not fupported by teftimony; and with refpe& to the fecond, it
would overfet too many reports, were the obje&ions of'want of
mr 'ality and not being final, upon fuch ground to defeat the report.
Taking up, therefore, the third objeftion, they argued that the
referrees not being charged with partiality or mifcondu&, the objections to the form of the report, muft find a cold reception with
the Court. Ifjudgment cannot be entered upon the record as it
flands, the Court may interrogate the referrees and divide the fum ;
or they may allow the plaintiff to file out execution in one aaion,
and releafe the others, or by their own- authority, the Court may
interpofe, and confolidate the a&ions. i eSra. 420. But, in fat,
it was contended, that the aaions were already confolidated by
ronfent of the parties in the filed agreement; which is furely the
as
much a pairt of the record, as a verdia, or a report; and by the
fubmiflion of all matters in variance, the caufe of a&ion in each of
the a&ions, is fubmitted in every one of them. Hob. 54. 12 M
234. Stra. 514. 3. Bac. .dbr. 288.
Ingerfol in reply. Awards at common law differ fo widely from
rcports under our a& of Affembly, that fcarce any authority upon
the fubje& of the firft, is applicable to the fecond. In the firfi cafe,
terms may be irnpofed before the Court will grant attachments ; but
here the report is equivalent to a verdi&, and the fole point now,
is,whether, if it were truly a verdi&L, judgment could be entered
upon it. It was not difcovered 'till late in the argument that the
parties themfelves had confolidated the affions; but upon the
examinatibn of the agreement nothing will appear that fhews that
intention, or produces that effe&. It enumerates all the four actions, fays that rules (in the plural) Ihall be entered in thefe feveral
ae7ions; 'and then there is a fifth adion entered in this very agreement, which it is fubfequently and feparately agreed to rcer. At
leaft, therefore, this laft adion is not confolidated.

•CoIrT of' UOMMOR PLEAS,

Philad;phiaCouny.

-147

To difcontinue, or releafe four, and fign judgiqent upon the feth, .I785-would .be impoflible, becaufe the report exprefsly comprifes iikore
-than the fifth a&ion wasibrought for. And to cati upon the. refefrees,
and by their afliflance divide the rum, w6uld be an illegal firtch
of power, which'-was not to-be apprehended from the court. I'r,
.as to the point of confolidation,'has the court -Authority to do more
than grant imparlances in fome of the acions, to induce the .party'
to confent'thaj the trial of one haili decide the reft, 'which would
-be no relief in the.prefent cafe.
'On the.'x5 th of Noveni zr the 'PRESIDENT dliered the opinion
"of the'Court.as follows.
SMPPEN, PICESIDENT. The juitice and falrnefs of.th tranf'afion, on the part of'the. plaintiff, isCo obvious.; and the' coifhit
,of the parties to confolidate the a&ions, is fo naturally implied from
-the whiole of the proceeilings, that my brethren* think the report
.oughtto be confirmed.
For myfelf, I doubt the legality of it, &cauf I do not fee how.
it is poflible to enter 'udgment upon the report fo as to avoid error.
'The confolidation offa&ions is intended to fare expence, and migHt
have been ordered by the Court on motion.; °but this agreement of
the parties does not ap/pear to me to amount to a coifolidation, there
being five feveral rules of referrence in the five feveral a&ions; and
though,.indee4 hexeferrees-have .underttken to ccnfolidate themf,
J much doubt iheir authorityefo to do. 'Inftead'.f finding a grofs
fim due on all ihe notes, they might have found what was 'lue on
each note, and have -reported the feveral fums on the feparate rul&s
of referrence. However as my brethren think' the report ought 'to
hnd, let it be confirmed,, and the..plaintiff -may make up the record.
.as he-thinks fafeft.
Report confirmed.

MoARi's verfus TARIN.

A Cafe was made in this caufe for the opinion of'the Court,
J
fItating, that the defendant bought a bill of exchange drawn by
Benjamin Harrfon & Co. upon a houfe in France, which was prefented to the drawee in February 1784, .and protefled for non acceptance. Before it was prefented, hoaw~vmr, the drawee had become
infolvent, and -an arr8t was ifflued by the French government, prohibiting the inftitution of fuits againft him for a.certain time. When
the bill became due.(the arrt Ihill continuing in force) it was again
prefented, and, on the Sth of .7une 1784, protefted for xnpayment.
Without any knowledge of the fecond proteff, and without any fuir
or c6mpulfion of law, the plaintf, wro'was onof the partners ot
the company that drew the bill, repaid the defendant the pringipal,
intereft, and charges, with 2opercent damages: -But, afterwards,.conceiving that he had paid, the 2o per cent damages in his own wrong,
_he.bronght Yhis aaion to recover back the amount.'
T 2
Sergearn

