SUPREME COURT nf

Pennjylvania:

April Term, 1786..

SLIVER, Plaintiff in Err. ve~fus SHaELBACK.

was a que ftion oan a 'writ of error, brought to reverfe a
judgment
I
in the Common Pleas of Philadelphia County, againfi
the plaintiff in error, when within age. The record of the ourt
below; ftated,.that the defendant (now plaintiff) appeared in perfon,
imparled to the next term, and then appeared and faid nothing ;
wherefore, &c. The plaintiff attained. his. full age. before he
brought the writ of error,
Levy, for the plaintiff in error, cite.n 0oAlod. 185. Rep. wm.
Hardw. 104. 376. x B1. Com. .5. Cro. El. 569. 818. Lill. Et.
252. 3. Bac. -fir. T49. But, as his arguments were afterwards
admitted, and repeated by the Court, it is unneceflary to infert them
here.
Lew;s, for tie defendant in 'error. Infancy muff be tried by inipe ion, 3 B1.Com. 331. By the record it is flated,.that the plaintiff in error appeared twice; and the Court might then have tried
the queftion of infancy by infpeaion, if he had fuggefted it; fo.
that he is not at this time entitled to be relieved, 3 Bac. .fr. 124,
134. 3 BL.Com. 331 . In all judicial procefs, the error muft be
reverfed before 2r years are attained for what is done in Court,
though not for what is done in pais; as in the latter cafe, a differmtt mbde for the trial of infiuicy is adopted, to wit, an inquc&.'

,6
i7 g 6.
.. ,--.

C

CSKS ruled and adjudged in

the

3 Bac. Jhr. 134. 5. 6. and that maybe done either within, or, atfull
age. 9. Yin. 377- Co. Litt. 28o.
By M'KEAw, Chief Juflke.-NIl d&cit is not a judicial a& ; but
cognovit alionem would have been fo.
Lewis. True; but the giving judgment upon Nildicit is ajudicial a& ; and when he fays nothing, there is the greater reafon for
the infpe&ion of his age, in order to prote& him, who evidently
knows not how to prote& himfelf. But how can the Court afcertain the truth of what is alledged ? Not by the verdi& of a jury,
-for this is a judicial a& ; nor by the infpedion of the party for he
has now attained his full age; it can only be done by the record.
Lewis admitted, however, upon a queffion being put to him, that
by the rejoinder in error, the infancy, which was afligned for error,
was acknowledged; but he relied upon the impolfibiliiy of obtaining
relief for a judicial a& done diens etaten, by a writ of errorpo
plenam atatem.
The CHzEF JUSTIcE delivered the opinion of the Court, in
fubtlance as follows:
M'KrEAN, ChiefS
uflie.-At the common law there could be no
appearance in any fuit, real, perfonal, or mixed, whether as plaintiff or defendant, but in proper perfon; except where the King,
by virtue of his prerogative, granted his writ for an Attorney; and
where an infant appeared to defend a fuit by his guardian.. The
featute of W. 2. c. x5 . declares that if an infant is eloined, fo
that he cainot fue perfonally, his next friend hall be admitted ,to
fue for him; and c. zo. of the fame ftatute, enables all perfons of
full age to fue and defend fuits by attorney.
But the appearance of an infant to a fuit brought agdinft him, is
not a judicial a&t.- The appointment of a guardian to defend the
fuit; and the taking his examination when a fine is to be levied, a
recovery to be fuffered, or a fiatute flaple &c. to be acknowledged,
are judicial a&s. ' foft clearly, however, the appearance in this
C fe : error.
The authorities cited by the cotrncil for the defendant in error, to
Thew, that after his full age, the party cannot take advantage of his
previbus infancy, appear to be reftri&cd to real affions, and to fines
and recoveries, which are, in their operation, mert. :Vodes of affurance. But we are likewife, clearly of opinion, that, in oher cafes,
a Judgment againft an infant may be reverfed afterfullae, and that
the fac muff be tried per pas and not by infpeffion. Moore 460.
Hardwick's cafes lO4. Hetly 65 .
Let the judgment below be reverted.

