COMMON PLEAS,

Philadelphia

County.

March Term, 1786.

HOLLINGSWOR.TH

verfus LEiE..

A RULE had been obtained to hew caufe, why the report of
.1Referrees hould not be fet afide, on the ground of their hav-

ing heard a witnefs interefted in the event of the fuit ; and, after argument, THE PRESIDENT pronounced the decifion of the
Court.
SHIPPEN, Prident.--The determination of caufes by referrees
under a rule of Court, has become fo frequentand ufeful a pra&ice,
and is attended with fo many advantages towards the fummary adminiftration of juftice, that it would be extremely mifchievous to
fhake their reports by captious obje&ions, where the fubftantial
rules of juffice are not violated. The merits of the caufe are Iolely'
fubmitttd to them, as jhdges of the parties own chufingkand are
not afterward; enquired into by the Court, unlefs there fhould appear a plain miftake of the law or fa6:.

x

1.62
t-186.
L

.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

As to the forms ot their proceeding, both parties ihould have
an opportunity of being heard, and that in the prefence of each
other, that they may be enabled to.apply their teflimony to the allegations. The witneffes,.on both fides, are likewife, to. give their
evidence in the prefence of. the parties, that they may have an
opportunity of crofs examining them. No furprife is permitted,
fuch as reftfing the parties a reafonable time to bring forward their
wirnefles, or refuting to hear them when they are brought. Thefe
rules, or fimilar ones, are founded in batural jullice, and are abfolutely ncceftiry for the due adminiftration of juffice in every form
whatever'.
As to the kind of evidence which the referrees may hear, there
always has been, and mufl neceffarily be, in this kind of tribunal,
a very great latitude. The parties, generally unaflufled by counfel,
are permitted to relate their own flories, and confront each other ;
their witneffes are'heard even without an oath, unlefs the contrary
is ifipulated, or the referrees require it. Books and papers are infpe&ed and examined by. them, without regard to their being fuch
as would be flri&ly evidence in a Court of law. And this practice being known to both parties before they agree to the reference,
and the advantages arifing from it. being mutual, there feems no
juf- reafon to tomplain of it.
In public trials in Courts of law, the judge' fit to -fuperintend the
evidence, and no int~refted witneffes are, in general, permitted to
give evidence to the jury ; but referrees occupy the office both of
judge a)d jurymen; their difcretion, therefore, muft neceffarily be
much relied on, and as they are generally unacquainted with the artificial rules of -law, they mufl be guided principally by their own
reafon. If we were once to fet alide a report, becauft the referrees had heard an interefted wifnefs,'wc fhould open a door for
fuch a variety of obje6tions, that fcarcely a fingle report would
ftand the teft. Papers not formally or legally prov.ed, or hearfay
evidence admitted, would be as fatal to reports, as the admiflion of
interefted 3vitneffes, being equal violations of the rules of evidence.
Rule difcharged.
OGDEN verfrs AsH.
THIS was Qn a&ion upon a policy of infurance on the- Ship
Brothers, which came before tiie Court 'upon a cafe flated,
whereifi the fingle queftion was, whether a warrant inferted in the
policy, had been complied with on the part of the infured, or not?
After argument, T.H E PRESIn.NT flated the point, and delivered the
"
opinion of. the Court.
SHIPPEN, Prefident.-The policy in this cafe, is on the outward bound voyage, wherein it is warranted "that order will be
-iven

