COMMON PLEAS, Philadelphia
County.

June Term, .1785-

SHOE 1AKER verfsS SHIRTLIFFE.

ALLAA moved for a rule to fhew caufe, why the execution iffuDed
in this a6tion, "hould not be ftaid, till another a&fion,
brought upon the a& of Afrembly againft Ufury, by Shirtlife, the
prefent defendant, againft Shoenaker, the prefent plaintiff was determined.
The motion was fouaded upon ;n affirmation,, which ftated,
tat the plaintiff and defendant, 'having been 'concerihed in trade,
borrowed .money from one Anne Gibbs upon a ufurious contra6t;
that Aine Gibb became preffing for the payment of the money while
the defendant was out of town'; that the plaintiff thereuponi gave
her his feparate fecurities to pay within a certain time; that upon
the defendant's retutn, he executed a bond and warrant of attorney
to the plaintiff, for his proportion of the debt due to Anne Gibbs,
that the prefent execution is iffued upon the judgment confefied by
virtue of that warrant of attorney; that an 'a&ion is depending againft Gibs, on the a& of Affembly againft Ufury, and that the defendaht has alfo inifituted a fuit againit the plaintiff, upon the fame
a& returnable to &pttrniber term, 1785.

128

1785.

CAsEs f-uled and adjudged in the

It was f'uggeted, in ftuport of the motion, that the ob e6K of the
execution, was a (hare which the defendant held in a veffel with the
plaintiff, and others; and that if this (hare was taken and fold, the
defendant would be in danger of loofing fatisfa&ion, if he recovered
in the qui tam affion which fie had inflituted againft the plaintiff.
Inger/ol and Sergeant oppofed the rule in the firft inftance. They
contended, that, even admitting there had been an ufurious'contra&
between the parties to this hit, and nne Gibbs; yet, as it did not
appear that any part of the money had been paid, no penalty was incurred ; for, the words of the a6t are, that no perfon Ihall receive or
take. They laid, likewife, that although the confideration of the
bond was originally uturious, the aa of Affembly did not make it
void; but only worked a forfeiture to the value of the thing or money lent; and that, therefore, without going farther, if the defend-nt's crofs aaion did not appear from his own fteting well founded,
it fhould not be made the inftrument of delaying the plaintiff's faiisfaclion.
Dallas aferted, that he was prepared to prove Gibbs had received
a part of the money, and that therefore the Ufury was complete.
Ide argued, that if the original agreement be corrupt between all
the parties, and fo within the ae, no colour would exempt it from
the dangers of tifury. x Brownl. 73. 2 And 428. 4. Shep. Abr.
170. That it is not material -whether the payment of -the principal and the ufurious intereft be fecured by the fame or different
conveyances, for all writings whatfoever for the flrengthening fuch
a contrac are void. i Hawk. 248. Cro. 1. 252. 508. That a fecond bond made after the forfeiture of a former, and conditioned for
the receipt of intereft according to the penilty of the forfeited bond,
is within the iftatute. I Hawk. 248. 3 Keb. 142. That if a bond
depends on fome other deed, and that deed becomes void, the bond
is void alfo. 2. AT'ls. - 341. an.d that a fine levied, or a judgment
fuffered for the fecurity of money in purfuance of an. ufurious contra&, may be avoided by an'averment of the corrupt agreement, as
well as any paroll contra&. I Hawk. 248 3 Rol 509. He faid
that the defendant did not wifh to.diminifh the plaintiff's fectirity,
but only to.obtain a ceffatiou of proceedings 'till the illegal confideration of the bond was afcertained by the, event. of the crofs
a6tion ; that if the confideration was illegal by ftatute, it was void
by the common law; and, confequently, that the defendant would
then be entitled to recover form the plaintiff as. much. as. was now
taken in execution. 2. 9-ils. 341.. Carth, 225.
But RY THE (,OVRT :-Wie cannot in this way enter into a
confideration of the merits of another, afion. Nor-ought. we upon fo flight a foundatiun to grant a rule to fhew caufe; for fuch
rules by the delay which they occafion,.are frequently as, prejudicial
to the plaintiff, as if they. were made abfolute.
Dallartook nothing by his.motion.
SCOTTIN

