and
APPEALS of Penilyvanza:

HIGH COURT of ERRORS

April Seflions,

1788.

L.wis, Appellant, verfus MARis, Appellee,
'T'HIswas an appeal from the Decree of the Regifier of Wills,
"YR
and two juftices of the Court of Common Pleas of the county
of Montgpomery, who admitted an infirument bearing date the 25th
o-thq Tenth Month, 1786,' purporting to be the ]aft will and Teftamiot of one Jephtha Lewis, tle father of the'Appellant, to be
proved as a good Will and Teament in writing, although it had
neither been written, nor fubfcribed, by the fuppofed teftator, upon
the depofition of 7ohn Evans, a fcrivener, that it was drawn at his
.requelt, and conformably to his inftruaions, but never read to him
after it was written. This infirument contained a devife of real
.Alate, 2nd a legacy ofC.4oo. for the ufe ofa fchool, in the -townfhip
of Gwyned, and county of Montgomery; and upon the validity of that
legacy the prefent controverfy arofe.-It was proved by fever?! per* ons, that the deceafed, in the year 1784, had talked of leaving money to a fchool; that about three months before his death, he atked
one of the deponents to be a truftee for that purpofe ; that fome
months before his death he remarked to another, what better could
a man do with his money than to leave it to fRich a ufe? that he declared he did not intend all his efltate for his child ; that he fpoke
repeatedly of John Evans's making his will; that for fear it fhould
come to the knowledge of his family, he defired it -.o be left with
John Evans; that being indifpofed when it was drawn, he defired
Evaw
,7ohn Evans to call upon. him agaih with it; that when
called with it again, lie was too far gone to read and attend to it ;
and that the difpofition of the real Sflate contained in the paper prowas the fame which the deceafed had, oefore his death, de,re,
fired.

7ohn

HIGH COURT of ERRoxs and APPEALS of PAnnfyvania.

279

fired his brother to mention to 7ohn Evans: But Yohn Evans was the
only witnefs who proved any inftrudtions to have been given in refpea to the legacy of-.4oo.-It appeared, likewife, that the fame
fcrivener had drawn another Will tor the deceafed in the year 1779*
which was left in fimilar circumftances, without the f ubfcription of
ihe teftator, or any other atteflation than that of the draweri but
this circumfiance was made no ufe of in the argument.
Iilcocks and F M. Smith for the Appellants.-We contend
Ift, That there is only one witnefs to prove the infirument in queftion ;
and, adly, That two witneffes are indifpenfibly neceffary to the legal eftabli.lhment of a laft Will and.Teflament.
I. Thefrl point, arifing from the fa&s, muff be determined by
the depofitions ; and, as no regard can be paid to a recital of the loofe
expreflions which were ufed by the fuppofed teftator, antecedent to
the in(tru&ions for drawing his will, it is clear, that the only evidence to fupport the legacy in favor of the fehool, muff be founded
upon the depofition of John Evans, to whom thofe inftruftions were
given.
II. We fhall proceed then, to confider the]econd point, which
depends upon the conftruclion of the A& of Aflembly, paffed in the
year 1705, "concerning the probates of written and noncupative
Wills, and for confirming devifes of lands." It is there faid, that
" all wills in writing, wherein, or whereby any lands, tenements,
or hereditaments, within this province, have been, are, or Ihall be
"devifed (heing proved hy two or more credible witnelfis, upon theirf.o"lemn a rmation, OR rY OTHER LEGAL PROOF IN THIS PRo'hall be good and available in law, for the granting,
"VINCE &c.)
"conveying,, and affuring of the lands, or hereditaments, thereby gi"yen, or devifed, as well as of the goods and chattels thereby beI State Laws. 3 o . The quefLion, therefore, refts upon
"qeathed."
the meaning of the words, or other legal proofin fhis prcvince; and,
in ordek to afcertain that, it may be proper to take-a hort, retrofpe&ive, view of the- general dolrine, refpe&ing the legal attefLation of Vills and Teftaments. As the ptobate of Wills was not a
matter originally of common law jurifdi&ion, the decifions have neceffarily been drawn from the civil law, the ecclefiafLical law, and
the law of nations, engrafted upon the general cuftoms of the realm
of England. By the civil law, indeed, feven witneffes were required ; but this excefs being reformed, firfi by the ecclefiaftical law,
which required three witnelles in fome cafes, and only two in others,
and then by the general cufloms of the kingdom, it is fettled in the
moft authoritative books to be fuaficient, that the will and mind of
the teflator fhould appear by two competent and difinterefted witneffes. Twiak. . 6.45. 46. 3 Salk. 396. For, the general cuftoms of
the kingdom are not further controuled, than by the jus genium,
-which is li. ewife fatisfied with the atrdlation of two witneffes.
Swin . 47. God. Orph. Leg. 3. 8. 1o. and where, indeed, the difpofition is fbrpious .j's, the'cannon law, in this refpe&, correfponds
with the 'usgentium, although forfenularjurpfis, it flill requircs
4-

two

asci
1788.
L

CAsEs ruled and adjiudged in .the

two witneffes, one of whom muff be the minifler. God. Orph. Lee.
8. ro. In the care of Codicils, the civil lawrequired only five witneffes, but the law of England requires the fame proof, as in the cafe
of Teflaments, that is two witneffes7, id. 20. Two witneffes, therefpre, areJufficient, and regularly two witneffes are alfo necr.fary 'to
the legal proof of a laft Will ind Teftament. Swnt. 343. 1 Equity.
.dr. 5 Bac. Tit. Toj. and. it may be vain to have no more than
one. Swinb. 65. Where children have been confidered as incompetent witneff'es to their father's Will, a child, being the third witnefs,
was adjudged as none, and the will let afide. i P. AP's. io. 267.
8.P. and the neceflity of two witneffes to a Will, is an idea as ancient as the time of Glanvil. Glan. h. 7.c. 5- .Nor does a prohibit;on lie to the ecciefiaftical Court, for refufing, by one witnefs, to
eflablifh a teftamentary writing. God. Orph. Leg. 66. 2 Burn. Ece.
Law. 243. 2 Salk. 547. L. Raym. 220. It is certain, that the flatutti 6f frauds has-not made any alteratioti in refpect to written
Tefiaments of goods and chattels.; and one wi~nefs, by
the civil
law, being as no witnefs at all, the proof of fuch a Tellament can
only be made by two fufficient witneflis. 2 Burn. Ece. Law. 524:
It is true, that we have produced no adjudged cafe, under the
3.2 Hen. 8. c. i. (hewing that two witneffes are neceffary to eftablifh
a Will of real eftate ; but we have cited fo many authorities of a date
fubfequent to the flatute, which, in this point, make no di 'critpination between Willsof lands, and Teftaments of chattels,. that it may
be fairly infered that the rule of Oroof, 'founded upon the jus gentum,
and the general cuftoms of England, is alike applicable to every
fpecies of teftamentary writing.
For the caufe of the appellant,
however, it is fufficient, that no doubt can remain of its ftrict and
invariable application, in the cafe of Tefame- ifor the difpolition
ofperfonal property; an.d, being thus incontrt., eitibly eftablflitd in
that country, from .which we have, in general, copied the principles,
and prafice of jurifprudence, it will appear by various aas'of thn
Legiflature, antecedent to'the palling of the law in quefion, and
even by the original flipulations in Enggland that the neceflity of two
witneffes to the legal probate of a lalt Will and Teftament, has,
been exprefsly recognized and adopted in Penfyvania. Thus,
among the laws agreed unon in England, it is provided, that " ail
"Wills and Writings, attefted by two Witneffes, fhall be of the fame
"force as tQ lands, as other conveyances &c." Prv. Law. in fpp.
p. 4. art. i" From which it feems to-have -been the'intention of
he Proprietaryand-firil emigrants, to obviate every doubt, and, un-equivocally,. to place the *jrodf of wills of lands, upon the faile
footing with the proof of ' eflamrnts of chattels; and this flipulation was for'mally cna&ed into a law, foon after the meeting of the
G~neral Affembly of the Province. Ibid p. .7c. 45- The law enabling Foreigners to-devife lands, likewife makes t;wio w1mrnees neceffary to the Will. * Prev. Lawsl.&
.1.1o9. c/d /.I
V . Nay, the
L tgiJature,
2-Vle. Ap..pae "tog.-Tia A& of Affn.mb!y rquires two
,.-tiiug witseffes.

or more lob-

HI.o

COURT oY ERRORS and ArPEALS of Penn5IVania. 21

Legiflature, at that day, carried the matter fo far as to require the t78R.
ieflimony of two witnefes in all cafes. Proy. Laws, in app. P. 3. c.36. Is it not, therefore, unreafonable to fuppofe, that it was intended, by the a& of 17o5, to relax the rules of proof on a fubjec.
of fo much folemnity and importance, as ..laft Will and Teftament ?-and, more efpeciallv, when by the fame law Sec7. 6. it is
declared, that no Will in writing, concerning any goods and chattels, or perfonal eftate, hall be repealed by word of mooth only,
nor fhall any auncupatiye Will be eflablihed, but upon the teffi'mony of two, or more, witneffes ? 2Se. 3.
This a& then, mufi have proceeded upon the well known principls and decifions refpe&ing probates ; and the conftru&;!n ought
,to be fuch, that no word fhould be rendered void, fuperfluous, or mifignificant. Hence, by the words, 'or other legalproof, the proof
meant by the Legiflature, .nmuft be that, which the pre-exifRing laws
and cuftoms of England, had made neceffary to a laft Will anA Teftament, and not merely that, which is fufficient to convi& a man ot
an offence, or to charge him with a debt: for, it ihis were not thg
meaning, it would be'fuperfluous to fay, that the probate fhall be
by fwo, or more, credible witnefs, upoit their folemn affrmation, R
iby other legalprotf fince the latter fentence would naturally comprehend and fupercede the former. Such, indeed, has been the interpretation of the Re, fter's Court of Pennyivania, previoufly to the Revolution, by the decree of a -gentleman of great profeflional abilities.
JP'm. W/ef's cafe before the Regjiier General of Pennflvanla, in 1773.
But, when we confider the religious d~licacy of thofe perforis,
who chiefly compofed the Legiflative body when the ad was pa,".d,
may we not preitime thttthis mode of exprefflion has been ufed, in
order, on the on hand, to ;'fert the right of giving teftimony upon
folemn affrmalion; abid, On the other, to avoid the dire& mention of
"teiimenyupon oath ? This conje&ure is, In fome degree, fupported
by the circuitous manner in which many other a&s of Affembly prefcribe the forms of proof; Prov. Law. 2. 3. 4-5.5.6. 20. 24. 25.
37. 37- 37. 42. 45. 45. for, the firft time that an atteftation upon
cath is exprefsly mentioned, occurs in the year 17i5, ten years after
the paffing of the law in queftion. Ibid. 76,
If, then, laws Which relate to the fame fubje&, muff be taken
together, there can beno doubt from a conne&ed view of the laws of
England, the acts of Affembly cited from the appendix of me late
Province laws. the different parts of the very a& in queffion, and
the praoice of our Courts, that, whether qualified by a rmaton, or
by oath, two witneffes are neceffary to eftablifh a laft Will and Teflament, und without two there can be no legalproof. The witneffes,
we admit, need not be prefent at the a&ual execution of the inftrument: but, if it is written by the TeftAtor himfelf, two witneffes
muff, at leaft, prove his hand writing ; and if it be written by another
perfon, two witneffes muft prove that it contains his laft Will and
Ji4pofition.

..982.C

1788.
L

Asis ruled and adjudged in tha

Lewis and Lawrtnce, for the Appellee.-The Appellant in contravention of his father's Wihes and benevolence, endeavours to fet
afide the VilI, in order to-defeat the charitable donation which it
contains : Should there be a doubt, therefore, upon the fubje&, it
will operate againff fo ungracious an attempt; but we conceive that
the ftri principles of law will be k fufficient prevention. Before
the ftatute of Wills, 32 Ren.8. c. i. every man was atliberty to difpofe
of his pcrfonal eftate : and as the difpofition was, in that refpe&,
governed by -the civil and ecclefiaftical laws, according to their inftitutions, two witnelts were neceffaxy to the probate of every Teftament.
' But when a- ftatute, without .faying any thing about the proof,
ives a new power to devife, unknown in the civil and ecclefiaftical
codes, Ihall *e refort to them, inftead of the common law, to-afcertain, in what form, and by what number of witneffes, the exercife
of that power ought to be attefted? This would furely be an abfurd
and improper deviation, fince the Courts 6f civil and ecclefiaftical
law can only interpofe with refped to Teftaments of chattels, and
cannot take cognizance of wills for the conveyance of lands. It
may, indeed, feem ftrange, that two wineffes fhould ever have been
requifite to the former, and only one to the latter: but, they are
niatters not regulated by,the fame legiflature; fo that when the Parliament, authorizing a devife, requires two witneffes to prove it,
this is not done be aufe, in fimilar cafes, the civil law requires a fiinilar atteilation, but on account of the fitnefs and expediency of
the thing itfelf.
It is true', however, that, as on the other fide it has not been
fhewn that two witneffes are necejary, neither have we been able to
difcover a cafe, in which it-is exprefsly adjudged, that, under the
ftatute of 3 2. Hen. 8. c. x.one witnefs isfuffcient to eftablifh a Will
ot lands: but, as all the authorities and abfidgments that have
been produced, refer exclufively to the cafe of k 'I eftament of chattels, and are uniformly filent with refpe& to the difpofition. of ioal
eftate, it is evident that the writers iegarded the fepiratejurifdidions,
to which thefe teltamentary infruments refpefively belonged, and
were aware of the different degrees of proof, upon which their authenticity depanded. Befides the cafes that have been already cited
for the Appellant (which merely ftate, with fame variations, that a
notary having received inf ruions for drawing a will, and having
accordingly drawn it, did not arrive 'till the party was dead) ihere
are many others of a fimilar defcription. Vin. tit. Devte. pa. 117.
P1. 2. 4. S.6. 14. s5..pa. 123- PL 9. pa. 122. P1. 3. But, in this
long catalogue, not a word is faid to fhew, that two witneffes were
prefent at th execution of the will, or heard the inflrudions which
were given for drawing it. Nay, in an ation brought by an Heir
at law againf a Devifee, we find that the infirudions for drawing
the will were given to an individual, and there is not the leaff intimation of another witnefs being prefent at any part of the tranfadion.
S"wine. s6. Thus, likewife, when a man defired another to write

his

HIGH COURT of ERRoRS and APPEALS of Pennfylvania. 283
his Will, who accordingly took fhort notes at the time, went h ,me, r788.
and reduced them into torm, but did not return 'till the Teffator
was dead, this, neverthelefs, was adjudged to be a good Will within
the ftatute. Sulinb. 6. and even where the notes were not reduced to
form, -'till after the Teffator's death, the Will was eftablifhed.
Swinb. 5x. 56. 113. Cro R. Too. For, the principle is explicitly
laid down in Blackfone, that " as to written Wills they need not
any witnefs of.their publication &.c. A Teftament of chattels, written in the Teftator's own hand, though it has neither his name nor
feal to it, nor witneffes prefent at its publication, is good: And
though written in another man's hand, and never figned by the
Telator, yet, if proved to be according to his inffruffions and approved by him, it hath been held a good Teftament of the perfonal
eftate." 9 Black. Corn. 5or.
The cafes thzt Are regulated by the flatute of frauds, 29 Car. 2.
c. 3. are clearly of no authority here; but thofe which have been
determined under the ftatete of 32 Hen. 8. c. I.are applicable to the
A& of Afembly, and ought to govern in the expofition. By this
flatute, no proof of figning and attefting is prefcribed, and, therefore,
before the paffing of the a& -in9 ueftion, though two witnefles were
neceffkry to prove a Teqament of chattels, one was fufficient, in
Pennfylvania,to eftablifh 4 Will oflandls. What then is the change
introduced by the Legiflature ? In the confirudion of Patutes, every
part muft receive effie; for, it cannot be prefumed that unneceffary
words have been ttfed ; COPp. 558, and, in order to give effed to every
part, it is natural to enqtqire what was the fubjeft under confideration, and what were the obje6ts and intentions of thofe who framed
the law? When, therefore, the Legifl-ture was confidering by what
proof Wills and Teftaments ought to be eftablified, we may reafbnably prefume that they took into contemplation the general. principles of evidence, and finding that prefuniptive proof, or in other
words, fuch circumfiantial teftimony as fatisfied the mind, was fufficient in every other inflance, whether on a queflion of property or
of life, ipight they not afk, why it flould be reje&ed here? and, if
a competent anfwer were wantinig 'as it.:certainly muft be) would
they not wifely refolve to'deltroy a diflin&ion, for which there exifts
no folid foundation in reafon, or the nature of thin'gs? The Legiflature then, not implicitly adhering to the civil or ecclefiaflical inifitutions, and placing the Probate of Wills of lands, and of Teftaments of chattels, upon the fame footing, have, in effect, declared
that thofe inftruments hall, if poffible, be authenticated by two, or
mqre, credible witnejeson theirfolemn affirmation ;- but, if this cannot
be obtained, then, that 6therlegalproo, or the fame circumrfantial
and corroborative evidence, which decides the other moft importani
intefeffs pf men, fhall, in this cafe, likewife be received.
Such, we contend, was the intention of the Legiflature; and what
conftitutes legal proof, it is incontrov-r,ibly the province of the com.mon law, and not of the civil law to judge and determin 'e. Let
us fuppofe that a man direfts his Will to be drawn, that iti's
exeNn 2

guted,

28.
vjS
'

CAs s

ruled'and adjudged, in the

uteA in the prefence of the drawer, that the Teftator informs hig
friends by whom it was drawn, and that, accordingly, after his
death, it is found in the hand writing of that perfon :-under thefe
circtnftfance.s, the con-efflon of the party, correfponding with the
teffimny of the Scrivener, and corroborated by the hand writing,
would ce rtainlv amount to legalprotf at cormon law; but, purfuant
to the adverfe doctrine, the will could aot be eltabifhed, tor there
are not two witneffes-to the execution, nor ta the infirudions fo
drawing it. Again; if a i--n fays, "my Will is ina certain drawer,"
and, alter his death, an inftrurneit, purporting to be his Will, is
found in that drawer; tbis, likewife, would be deemed legal proof
and yet it wants the tteftation Of two scifnejfis. Or, fuppofe it had
leen laid, "I am going to my Notary to dire& bim to draw .my
Will," and I rmean to give half my efhte to A, 4nd'the other half t6
B." if,'
after his death, the notary produced an infirument d.-awn in
that manner, Qhe circumfiances of the care would furniflh a !.gal
proo, buj ftill
there are not two .ytne s to the Will.
. If two witneffis are required in all cafes, the a* muff.be taken
to intend, witneffes prefent at the eyecutiom of the Will; and f
the exoreffion or other legalproof becomes infignificant and nugatory.
Nor, confiftently with the rules of grammar and conftru&ion, can the
.argumeht:be admitted, which is founded, upon the religious fcrupl.es
of the Affembly that paffeO the.a& ; for, if the Legiflature fought to
avoid the mention of an oath, the fentence muit have been diff[rently arranged, and i ould probably have inn in this way; "Wills&c.
binpgproved on tke fokmn agtfrmation, or other legalproof,of'Iwo or
mort eredble witne.is, &r."
but, as it now Aands, the Appellant'q

interpretatieoi is firained and improbable ; While the latitude, for
which we contend, is not without precedent- foqri by the fiatute ot
'ames-L the m6thtr of a dead child, which, itit hadlived would
have been a baflard, isrequired to give pofitive proof by one wilnffs,
at icat, that it was bwirn deact- or fbe flali fufler as in cafe ofmurder ;
yet, in ttials under this law, circumftanti2l evidence has alwaya
bee r admitted here, as well as in Englard, to work an acquital.
This is, indeed, a penal flatute; but therc is nothing which the
law regards more favorably than a ]aft
Will, Pnd Judges have eveg
been felicitous to fupport the intention of the Tefbator.
Is thtre pot fuficent evidence, then, that, the Will in difpute,
contains the intention of the Tetator? Every part of it, except that
uhich relates to the legacv of £.4o ; is dire6Uy proved by two witnelfes, the Scrivener, who drew it, and the Teftatox's brother, who
carried the inflruffions ; and, even with refpea to the legacy, there
jisthe pofitive tcftimony of one -witnefs, corroborated v. ith fuch circvmftances as force convi4ion on the mind-fuch circumftances a*5
ought, we.fay, to be received, under the a& ot Atkembly. The
Teftator, aov ing that he did not mean to leave all his edtate to his
children, had for yeart before his death uniformly declared his intention .f
bequeathing a legacy for the benefit of a School ; and but a
few days befit,: e he e-xpi € I, he reqi elled one of the witneffes to be a
Ti .uflee

HIGH COURT of £aIORi and APPEALS OfPenIiivanta.

s

Truftee for that ufe. When, therefore, we find the fame intention j;88.
expreffed in the infirument produced, and the Scrivener dcpofes that
it is exprelkfd conformably to the inftruaions he received, there can.
not be a doubt ot our being in full poffeffioi of the lat Will and
Mind of th" Tellator. The Will is, therefore, cleazrly eftabliffied by
legalproof,within the letter and fpirit of the aa; 'which, by thus
llin a comprehenfive, though plaid and fatisfa&orv, mode Of expreflion, intended to obviate the many mifchiefs thiat had arifen,.
from the ft.ria rules of pocf rejui'red by the civil and ecclefiaftical
law.
Xilcocks, in repky.-It is conceded, that, according to the law in,
Enghld, a -Tftament of chattels ihuft be proved by two witneffes
but it is argued by the adverfe counfel, that under the flatute of
3Z 4'en. 8. c-. i. a W.ill of lands is fufflciently proved by one witnels.
In this-we cannot agree; f6r, none of the cafes, "cited on the park
of the-Appellee, relate to the folemnities of making aWill, or thi
degree of proof'that is required: the only point agitated 6r d'etermined in any of them, is, whether the inftrument in queftion be a gooof
W.71 in.writing, oir not? and though there is no exprefs adjudizarioni
upon the fubje&, we find it faid that two witneffes are neceirary
to aWill, faving that, in cafe of land,' the folemnity of writing is
&ljo tieceffary. Swinb.. 6. vzhid is a IIrong implicatibn in Tavor ot
doftrine.
the
Appeljapt's
%But
the' prefgnf
controrerfy muft be decided, after all, by the a&
was made with a fullhknowledge of the idea§
which
of Affembly,
and d.eterminations in -England, relative to the probate of teftamen
tary writings; and there appears from'the feveral prior a&s of thae
Legiflature of Pennjflvania, a fixed intention to .dopt the praclic.
" indeed, by the words, or other'legalproof,Iefs
of that countr.
than two witneffes were meant, this abltrdity will be obvious, that
in thefrff part of the fentence, we are called upon to prove the
Will by two, or more, credible Witneffes, upon theirfolemn affrmation; and that in the ciofe of it, we are.'allowed to make the proof by
one, ot lef; than one, wanefs, that is by cikcumJtanres which fatisty"
the mind ; fo that the words--" two or more witneffes"-are by fuch
contruf&ion fatisfied by a'proof of "two or lefs than two witneffes."
Thug, likewife, the teflimony of two witneffes, or of lets.than two,
undoee any circum lances, is made tantamount to .he teftimony of twi"
or more wiln e 's, upon theirfolemn affrmation ;-a conceflion which,
it is not probable, a Legiflature, compofed of @uakers, would have
been eafily induced to make. On the contrary, the defign of this
claufc feems to have been, to prevent any doubt of a man's right to
deliver his teftimony, conformably to the di&ate4 of his confcienfcious fcruples; and, having provided that the proof might be nad
by two, or more, credible witneffes, upon thetrfolnn affrmation, it
was neceflary to proceed to admit other legal proof; for, if the Legiflature had ftopped there, an affirmation would be the onlyform of
attetatlion by which a Will could be eftablifhed; and as the law al.
lowed no perfon to 2flrm, who was not confcientioufly fcrupulau_
of

2g5
1788.

!

CAsEs ruled and adjidged in the

of taking an oath, it followsi generally, that none but a .Quaktr
could be a witnefs to a Will.
Certain it is, therefore, that other legalproof, is placed in oppofition tQ folemn affrnation, and not to the numher of wit'ejs; and
the claufe, fairly conftzued, amounts to this, that "Wills &c. being
proved by two, or mare, 'credible witneffes, upon theirfolemn affirmation, or by two or more credible witneffes, under any other lega!
qualfication, fhall be good and available in law ;"-the fame number
of witneffes being neceffary to the probate, whatever may be th!
form of atteflation.
This conftru&ion is perfe&ly conformable to the caution and to
the liberal principles of the Legiflature of that day. They firil take
care to eflablifh a mode of proof according to their own religious perfuafion, and then, under the general expreffons-", other legal
proof. '-would admit all modes of atteftation, which either the laws
of that day, or any future time, fhould recognize.
Without fuch precautions, how precarious would be the fituation
'fproperty! In the laft moments of life, When the body is depreffed
with ficknefs, the underflanding impaired by age, and the mind
agitated with doubt and apprehenfion, we may eafily conceive the
fuccefsful operations of artifice and fraud. The government of every wife and enlightened- nation has endeavoured,, therefore, to prote&
Yhe imbecility and weaknefs of that flate, from the force or cunning
pfi;nterefted men: nor is it juft to the reoputation of this country, to
fuppofe, that her Legiflature alone, has left the proof of the laft,
and moft folemn, a& of her citizens, to mere circumftances and
conjeaure.
" The Court took time to confider of their Judgment, which waq
the next day delivered by the CHIEF JUSTIcE.
M'KEA-N, Chiefu.f7ice.-This caufe comes before us upon an
.tppeal from the Regifter of Wills, and two Juffices of the Court of
Common Pleas of the county of Montgomery ; and, it is agreed, that
there is -but one queflion.for the ;determination of the Court; to
wit, whether a Will not Written by the Teflator, or fubfcribea by
1him, but put'into writing by his dire&ion, and proved to be fo only
.by the perfon who drew it, ought to be eflabhihed as a good and
pbrfe& Will and Teftament ?
The difpofition of propertyby Will, was certainly the firft mode
of conveyance ufed among men I and fome authors, in tracing its
antiquity, have informed us, that Noah "made a Will, devifing the
whole world to his fons, according to their refpe&ive proportions.
The conveniency of the thing having rendered it univerfal, cuftom,
at length, became a law for its fupport; and different folemnities,
or forms, wore prefcribed by different Legiflatures, in order to fix
.the authentiity of a tefiamentary writing. Thus, by tho Roman
law, it was originally requifite that a Will fhould be in writing,
f fb.rib.d by the Teftator, if h&could write, before feven witneffes,
2nd

JI41G

COURT of ERRORS and ArPEALI of Pennfyivan;a. 2"87

and, if, he could not write, then publiflied by him in.the prefence of eight witneffes; but this number was properly reduced to
two in the time of 7uflinian. By the civil and ecclefiaffical laws, as
they prevail in England, the ableft writers concur in faying, that
two witneffes are required, and that two are fufficient to provea vVill.
The ftatute of 32. H. 8. c. i. (which is merely explained by the 34.
9nd 35- of ihe fame reign) enables a man by his Will in writing to
difpofe of all his foccage lands, and two thirds of his lands held in
capite; which, by the fubfequent operation of the 12. Car. 2. c. 24.
extends to all his real eftate. It is incontrovertibly fettled, however,
that neither the featute of Henry 8. nor the ftatutes by which it is explained, made any alteration in refpe& to Teffaments of goods and
chattels; and therefore, they are fill regulated, as they always were,
by the civil and ecclefiaftical law, which, as it has been already remarked, requires the atteffation of two witneffes.
As this, then, was the-eftablifhed rule in England, and as by the
Charter from Charles the Second to Jillkam Penn, the laws
of England relating to property, were to be the laws of the Province',
until altered by the Legiflature of Pennfylvania, we muff now enquire, whether any aft of our Legiflature has fubftituted another
mode of proof?
It is contended, on the part of the Appellees, that the law, ena&ed
in the year 1705, has placed Wills of real effate, and Teftaments of
perfonal property, upon the fame footing; and that any proof which
would be futficient to convince a Jury of a fa irk iffue, is, by that
law, made competent to the probate of a laft Will and Teftament.
It has been argued, likewife, by the fame counfel, that, even in
England, from the pafling of the Itatute of 32 Hen. 8. r. z. 'till the
paffing of the flatute of frauds, 29. Car. 2. c. 3. the pofitive teftimony of witneffes was not required, but that any common law-evidence, founded upon circumiftances, was fuflicient to prove a Will.
of lands. On this point, there is, perhaps, no exprefs adjudication
to be met with in our books; yet there. are cafes in which the neceffity of two witneffies to a Will of lands, feems ftrongly to be implied. God. Orph. Leg. z5. Dy. 72. Plow. 34.5. But the canfe before the Court muff finally depend upon a proper conffru&ion of the
a& of Aflembly; which has declared, that "Wills &c. being proved

"by two or morecredible -witnefes, on their folemn affirmation,
"or by other legal proof, fhall be good and available in law ;" and
as all teftamentary writings, whether for the difpofal of real, or
perfonal, effate, are tubje&, in this refpe&, to one rule, the whole
difpute refts upon the words, or other legalproofi
In the conftru&ion of ftatutes, the fame principle fhould be ob.
ferved, which prevails with refpe& to Wills; and the intent and
meaning of the Legiflature in the forgier, ought to be as carefully
fought after, and as faithfully purfued, as the intent and meaning
of the Teffatorin the latter.
What then was the intention of the
Affembly in pafling this a& ? The Appellees alledge, that it was to
admit common lass evidence in the cafe of Wills; and tk t other
l7al

'788-

tAsr

t7T8.

ruled and adjudged in fhe

legtproof, is an alternative oppofed to the number of withee//s.

V-J-- to this, it has been anfwered,

Bm

that lets proof than two witneffes,

could not, confifiently with the reafon and nature of-the fubje6t, be
intended ; and that other legalproof, is put in oppofition tofilemn affirmation, in order to admit the atteftation of an oat,-whether adminiftered upon the Gofpels to a Chr/ian, or upon the Pentateuchto a
.ew; whether with the folemnity of an uplifted hand, according to
fome feaaries; or with the ceremonial of the hand placed beneath
the thigh, as it is pra&ifed by the Gentoo nations.
This appears, upon the whole, to be the genuine expofition of
the a&; and the adverfe doftrine is pregnant with fo much abfurdity and inconveniency, that it ought not to be imputed to the Legiflature, nor ought it to receive the fan&ion of the Court. Befides,
we find, thatthis very a& requires the teftimony of two, or more,
witneffes to the probate of a nuncupatlive Will, and likewife, to the
revocation of a Will; and every principle which could make -it necaffary in thofe inftances, muff, ajfrtiori,operate in the cafe befofe
us: For, it could not be defigned, that greater folemnity hould be
obferved in a verhal Teftament, or in rtpealing, than in making, a laft
Willand Teftament;-an a& of the moft ferious and important nature, not only as it affe&s the Teftator, buft as it affects the peace
and welfare of pofterity.
In (hort, from the uniform "tenorof the A&s of Affembly, from
the pra&ice of the Courts, and from the other analogous fe&ions of
the fame law, it is eident that the Legiflature meant to require two
witnelks, in pr~oof of every teflamentary writing, whether for the
difpofition of real, or peilonal eftate. This opinion, in which the
Court Unanimoufly concu'r, we are happy to deliver; for, it would
be dangerous indeed, were the idea tolerated for a moment, that a
notary, or any individual, could alone, according to the oppofite
conflru&ion, prove the validity of the Will which he had written.
By ruch means the very purpofe of Wills might be defeated, :nd
the falleft fcope given to foul and fraudulent impofitions,
BRYAN, J7uhce.,-.The witnefs, on the prefent occafion, is indubitably a man of fair and upright chara&er; and, therefore, it is the"
more particularly to be obferved, that the opinion of the Court is
founded upon the indifpenfible neceffity of having two witneffes to
the probate of every Will.
BY THE COURT: Let the fentence and proceedingg of the Regifter's Court be reverfed.

.KIRxBtIDX et al. Pifs. inErr. verfus DuRDEN.
E laintiffs in Error had executed a Bond, bearing dat, the
23,d of O8oer, 1784, to the Defendant, with a warrant to con-

.fes Judgmint thereon, dire&ed "Th ,'Tlm. Lewis, Attorney of the
"Court of Common Pleas at Newtown. in the county of Buaks, or to
" any

