COURT of O'Er ndT

M-1NER &C.at Pha

hia.

]Inr

the fame principle that it is raid in 6 Co. 45. (,the court wl damn
a bond, on which the obligee has recovered.".'
M'KEAN, Chief '.uflice. The court will not detain a note or
bond in the circumitances mentioned., With refpe& to the competency of the witnefs, I remember a cafe before CHEW, Chief.Ju.lice, where one Chap;nanwas indi&ed for playing with falfe dice,
and the perfon cheated was admitted to be a witnefs. On the authority of that decifion, in a recent trial at Lancafler,the injured party was allowed to give evidence, after a full argument upon the
prefent objeaion. We have, therefore, no doubt that Meng is a
competent witaefs.
RESPUBLICA

verfus

DE LONaCHAMPS.

C HARLES JULIAN DE LONGCHAMPS, commonly cal-

led the Chezialier De.Longchamps, was indi&ed, that,, he on
the 17 th 6f-May, 1784, in the dwelling-houfe of his Excellency the French Minifler Plenipotentiary, in the prefence of Francis Barbe Marhids, unlawfully and infolently did threaten and
"menace
bodily harm and violence to the perfon of the faid Francis Barhe Marhois, he being Conful General of France to the
" United States, Conful for the State of Pennfylvania, Secretary of
" the French Legation &c. refident in the houfe aforefaid, and
" under the prote&ion of the law of nations and this Common" wealth."
And that "afterwards, to wit on the i th of May in
" the public f reet &c. he the faid Charles Julian de LongchamPs unlawfully, premeditatedly and violently, in and upon the perfon of the
faid FranclsBarbeMarhos under theprote&ionofthelawsof
natibec of this Commonwealth, then and there
t s, and in thee
" ing, an affault did make, and him the faid FrancisBarbe Marbois
and violently
frike the
and peace
otherwife
in violati*.evonnlawfully
of the laws
of nations,didagainf
and &c.
dignity
of th

:

€United States and of the Commonwealth of Pennflvana."-To
thefe charges the defendait pleaded nt guilty.
The evidence, in fuoport of the irff Count, was, that on the 17th
of May, De Longchampfs went to the houfe of the Minif'cer of France,
an after rome converfation With Monfleur Marbois, was heard to
exclaim in a loud and menacing tone, "7e vus d n
Pon
,
Co-uin", addrefing himfelf to that gentleman. That the noie be-in
heard by the Minifter, he repaired-to the room from which it if-.
fued, and that in his prefence the defendant repeated the infult offered to .Minfiur ~2'4arroisin nearly the fame terms.
In fupport of the fecond Count, it appeared, that D Longcamps
and Motniur Marhos, having met in Market Street, near the Coffee
Houfe, entered into a long 'converfation, i
e courfe of which, the
latter faid that he would complain to the civil authority, and the
former replied, "you are a Blackguard." The witnells generally
depofed that De ngchaps ftruc k the cane of Monfiur Marbos,
b-fore

1784.

1X2

t784.

'CASES

ruled and adjudged .in a

before that gentleman ufed any violent geffures, or even appeared

~ incenfed ; but that as foon as the ftroke was given, Monfieur Marbois
employed his flick with great feverity, till the fpe&ators interfered
and feparated the parties. One of the witneffes, indeed, faid, that
previoufly to engaging with their canes, he obferved the two gentlemen, at the fame inftant, lay their hands on each others fhoulders,
in a manner fo gentle, that he, who had heard it was cuffomary
among the French to part with mutual falutations, imagiried a ceremony of that kind was about to take place, and was furprized to
fee De Longchanps fRep back, and ftrike the cane of Monfieur Var-

hois.
On the part of the defendant, evidence was produced of his
.having ferved with honour in the French armies, and his comrniflion of Sub-Brigadier in the dragoons of Noailles, was read. It appeared that the occafion of his calling on'Monfieur Marois, was to
obtain authentications of thefe, and fome other papers relative to his
family, his rank in France, and his military promotions, in order to
refute feveral publications, which had been made in the news-papers, injurious to his chara&er and pretenfions. The refufal of
Ztonfteur A'farbois to grant the authentications required, was the
ground of.De Longchamps' refentment, and the immediate caufa of
his menaces at the Minifter's houfe.
With refpe& to the affakult; one witnefs (a Frenchman) fwore
that he faw Monfiear Marois give the firif blow, and his Excellency the Prefident of the State, teftified, that Monrieur Marbois,having
complained to him of the infult received in the Minifter's hou'fe, he
fent a meffage to De Longchamps, requefting to fee him; that the
defendant readily attended, when his Excellency explained his reafons for apprehending, that he meditated rome perfonal violence
-upon Monfieur Mar ois, and requefted him to pledge his parol of honour, that he would profecute the matter no farther. This he declined in polite, but pofitive tex'ms; when his Excellency propofed
to .Mkonfeur .Marboisthat tfie Chevalier fhould be bound over for
his good behaviour; but that gentleman would not accede to the
propofal.
Sergeant and Pannofl, for the defendant, contended, that the expreffions laid in tie llrft part of the indictment, were too cquivocal
to be conftrued into menaces of corporal harm. "I will difhonour
you", is a fentence that conveys more than -one fignification; and
the threat would have been fully accomplifhed, had the Chevalier
defcended to any of thofe very libellous publications, with which
his own chara&er had been afperfed. The eftablifhed maxim, that
words ought to be taken in their mildeft fenfe, operates, therefore,
in favour of the defendant; and, at all events, that they do not amount to an affault, and are not the fubje& of an Indiitnent, are
principles incont'rovertibly eflablilhed. 3 B. LoMe. 2o. Finch L. 2o2.
4 Infil. io8. They infifted, that the Prefident offered Allonfieur Mariois the only fecurity which the law will allow on fuch occafions, and
whi.h would effe6tually have reftrained any future violence intended
to

Couicr

of OqiR aid TimMIm

, &c; d Phiadelphia

ix3

to be committed upon his perfon. That therefore his having fuffer- I784.
ed a fecond infult, mufi be imputed to his refufal to accept that feyurty.
It is pretended, that by the menaces at the houfe of the Minifter,
the law of nations was violated ; yet, it muft be rememembered, that
the relar.ation fought, and the remedy olered, are cbnfined to the
municipAllaw of Pimnfylvania, where the offence was 'committed-;
and, in all cafes of menices, the law of Pnnfylvania yields no further relief, than the impofition of a legil reftraint oa the execution of
thofe menaces. The degree of outrage is, likewife, to be coniputed by the quality of the perfon offended ; and as the application of
the defendant was to procure a certificite from the Conjul of France,
if MAnfiaur Meurboishas been at all infulted, it is only in that chara&er,-which is not prote&ed by the law of nations. fat, lib. 4.
'§. 75. and confequently there is no redrefs, but what the law of
the State provides.
On the fecond "ount, of the Inditment, they argued, that it was
not fiifficiently proved, that De Longehamps was the aggreffor. One
witnefs has fworn pofitively, that the firft blow was given by .1ronfieur Marbois, and another defcribes the parties to have laid their
hands on each other, at the fame infhnt. Though other witneifes
did *hot fee thefe circuriftances, yet they are grounded upon affirnative tefltimony, which -cannot be deftroyed by that which is
merely ragitive. Gilb. L. B. 157. If, therefore, the evidence for
the defendant was entitled to credit, it appeared, that Alonjiiur _M'arbois was the author of the outrage ; and, it is fo well eftablithed
that no elevation, rank, or immunity of chara&er, can abrogate the
right of felf.defence, that if a. Sovereign Minifter offend a Citizen,
the latter miy oppofe him, without departing from the refpe& due
to his Ration, and give him ajeffon that fhall both efface the fRain
and expofe the author of the outrage Patt. lib. 4. §, So.
The Attorney Geniral, aflifted by J ylfon, fupported the profecution.
rhe necellity of fuftaining. the law of nations, of protefting and
.ecuring the perfons and privileges of Ambaffadors ; the conne&ion between the law of nations and the municipal law ; and the
effle& which the decifion of this cafe muft have upon the honor of
,Pennfylvania,and the fafety of her Citizens abroad, were Rated at
length from 3 Burr. 1480. i B. Com. 253. 4 B?.. Cor. 70. Valt.
prSf. 6. page 203. Vat. lib. i. §. 6. Ib. 4. §. 84. §. o. Aylff's Pazdha. lib. 2. 132.
On the firif part of thoIndi&ment, they obferved, that the meaning
of the menace ufed in the Minifter's houfe, was to be fought fo. in
the opinion of the French nation. With them, the phrafe. extend'ed farther than colloquial difhionor (that Monfleur iliarbais had already fuffered) it implied perfonal violence. This was the idea,
likewife, of his Excellency, the Prefident of the State, and the event
confirms it beyond a doubt. If, therefore, the menace had been attended with iti natural effeS, imprefling MZVf/eur Marbois with
an apprelenflon for.his own. fafety, the Conful General of France,
P
and

1 i4

1734,.

CASEs. ruled

and adjudged in a-

and the Secrctary of the French.Legation to the United States, mu_been prevented from paying a proper attention to his appointnents, which is certainly a violation of the law of nations. Vatt.
lib 2. §. 218. Upon the fame principle that the infringement of a
Statute, is an indi&able offence, though the mode of punifliment is
.not pointed out in the A& itfelf, an offence againfti the laws of Na.
tions, while they compofe a part of thei law of the Land,muft neceffarily be indi&.ble.
With refpe& to the affault, they contended, that the weight of
the teftimony proved De Longchanips to be the aggreffor ; and the refpe&ive ch-,ra&ers of the parties tend to con-rm it: Mnfieur MarZ i.,
preferved d.ring the Ahole tranfa&ion, his conflitutional ternperament-c6ol, deliberate, and- felf pote-ffed ; while De Longchanips,
naturally captious and impetuous, became incenfed at the imaginary injuries he had received, and, by his own declarations, was determined to be revenged.
The Ca tEF JUSTICE, after minutely recapitulating the evidence,.
and applying it to the charges in the indi&ment, expreffed. the following fentiments.
M'KEAN, Chief7 flice. This is a cafe of the firft
imprefion in
tht United Statiu. It mull be determined on the principles of the
laws of nat onw, which form a part of the municipal law' of Pennjpvania; and, if the offences charged in the indi6tment have been
committed, there can be no doubt, that thofe laws have been violated. The wods ufed in-the Minifter's houle, (which is to be
confid-red as a FireignDoin'll, where the Minifter refides in 'full
reprefentation of his fovereign, and where the laws of the St::te do
not extend) may be compared to the f.me words applied to the
"j'udges,in a Court of Juffice, where they fit in reprefentation of
the majefty of the People, of Pennfy5vania, In that cafe, the offender would b'e
immediately committed tojail,.without the preliminary pr6cefs of an indi61ment by a Granid jury; and, in the cafe before us, if the offender is conviaed, he may certainly ke punifhed.
by fine .ndimpfifcnment.
In a:iions ot Slander, words were formerly conftrued in the mildetf.±fnfe they would admit; bit reafon has fuperceded fuch forced
n.terpret-itions, and words are now to be taken according to their
ordinary import and meaning. Thofe expreffed by the defendant,
ae evidcntly of a tendency fo opprobrious and violent, that they
c;,anrdt fail to aggrevate the outrage which has been comemitted.
As 'to the aiauft, this is, perhaps, one of that kind, in s.hich the
it.:^ut is more to be confidered, than the ahual damage ; for, though
ni great bodiy pain is ftffired by a blow on the pahn of the hand,
or the fk-irt of the coat, ytt thefe are clearly within the legal difinition of Afrault and Battery, and among gentlemen, too of tcn induce
d,:elling, cnd terminate in murder. As, therefore, anything attached to the perfon, partakcs of its inviolability; De Lngc.,amps"
fi,-iking .,Mfur V1ariois' cane, is a ffifficient j-flific:,tion of that.
gf dtleman's fubfzquent condu&.
Shave

CouT.W of OYER and TRMINNER &c. at Piladelt.*.

Ij

BRYAN, 'fflice. Th diffin&ion, betwezn a Corinful and -a
member of the Legation, -is
not warranted inthis -cafe; for, tMnrle:
Aarhois never ceafed to be the latter. As Secretary to the Legation,
his-authoiity defcends froni a high fburce, his commitlion being
made out in the fame form as the Minifr's, and figncd in tiie
fame manner, by the King his mafler.
The Jury, at firft, found the defendant gailty of the Affault on".;
but, the Court defiring them 'o re-confidzr the matter, they r:turned with a vexdi& againft him on'both Counts.
The fentence of the Court was fufpended, in confequence of a
eafe
fIated
by his Excellency,
Honorable
Supretne
Executive
Council, forthe
thePrefident,
opinion -ofand
thethe
Judges.
it w.±s
argued
in
open
CouPt,
on
the
dl, two for the affirmati~e, -andaoth
aind
12th
of
Juy,.by
five
Coun..
three ior th negative; and on the.
brought befoe the Court, the
being
the
prifonr
th
of
O&obe,
CHl
7
Jus'icE
h
lated the cafe, repeated
and, finally, pronounced the judgment of.the
the anfwers
of the
the followJudges,
Court, in
ingM'KAN,
manner. Chief u/tit.-hares-uianDs Longchamps
:-You
have been indie for unlawfully nd
violently tereatening and
mnenaing bdily-harm
FranIs-Barhe
and violence
D Aarhois,
per-ton of the
SecretarytotothetheLegation
fromhonorabe
France,
and
Generalofof
the Conful
anfion-houfe
UnzitedlStates nfof America, in
theFrance
Mini to
er the
Pleiiipotentiary
France; nd
foran Afult and Battery 'committed
upon the aid Secretary and
Co~nfil, in a public fireet irthe City ot Philadelphia.
To this Indi&ment
youupon
havetheput
pleaded,
yourfelf
that
you
were
not
anda fair
country -an unbiafed Jute,guilty,
for trial,
trial
upon
and clear evidence, have found you guilty.
Thefe offences having been thus legally l4certained
aid fixed
upon you, hs Excellencyd the Prefid ent,
and the Honorable the
Supreme Executive Council; attentive to the
honor and interef of
the State, were pleafed to inform the Judges
of
had frequently done before, that the Miniter this Court, as thn
of France had earnedtly
repeated
a
demand,
that
you, having
uniform of a French Regimeit,
appeared
his houfe in the
and having
calledinyourfelf
an o.lcer in the troops of his Maje
ty,
fhould be di
aered
up
to
him for
there outrages, as a
dtnchman to be fon to
in this. fage of yourprofecttion, to take into Fance; and wioed us
maure, confideration,
and in the mot folen manner to determinelt-Ift. Whether you" could be legally deivcered
u
Conr.',
an
aie
cording
to
the
claim
made
by
udpy.
Mirnifier
crithtrop
If
you could
of France?
of hi not
Maetfol be the
ed€iee delivered
thuslatelegally
ptup,
i
whetl
tro
your oEences in violation of the law of nations,
bding
now
afccrtaned and verified according to the laws of
this Commonwealth
you ought not to be imprifoned, until his
Mnie . ChrioF
an
ir
lhall declare, that thc reparation is fatisfaiory
the
And d. If you can be thus iprifoned, whether
any
legal
at
yan b done by Council, -for cau.:ng you to
be ,oimprind

~ ~ ~ ~ delreftsa&r ht

1hall~~~~~~
h
eprtini

i734.
.r .

u6

CASEs ruled anct adjudged in A

To thefe queftions we I ave given the fol owirg an(wvers ipt

x78.

In compligce with the requeft of his Excellency, the Prefident,
and the Holonoiabe the Suprtme Executive Council, we pcftp,n. ed p:flngr, fentence upon Charle.-funiin e Leneams, tl:l
".e had maturely conlidercd the thr e qucfltons above propod
* for our determination. On the i oth and i 2th d;.ys of July the
ieven. I qucflions -Aere aigued before the Ccurt by f ve CcIunfei,
Weh ave
" two on -the aflini.ative and thiee on the ntgative fide.
kept the matter under . dvifcment until this day, and now deliver our opinion thereupon.
i. " Ar.d as to the filt queftion. we anfwcr, Thi..t it is cur

"

"
"

opinion, tl'.t, in this caje, Cli.rles~yulian Die LongclnF. cann.t
be leglly delivcrc-d up Dy COuncL. aHLcordil f" to th.L claim n"ade

. by the Minifter of France. '1 hough, be tl'iik, cafes n ay occur.
where Councilcould, pro kcno pubic, and to prevent attrecicus
offenders evading punifhment, deiiver them up to the Juflicq
of the Country to' hich they belong, or Mhtre the cfinces Nere
c

committed.
2. " Punifhments muff be inflieled-in the fanie County

,here

" the Ciiminals -ere tiled ;nd cunvi61ed, unlefs the rec6rd c(" the

attainder be rtmoved ir.to the Supreme Court, mhich mvny vvard
,' execution in the Comity were it fits; they mtfl be fuc i is the
" laws exprefily prefcrihe ; or Ahere no flated or fixed judment
cc isdireaed, according to the legal dl&cretin of the Cocvrt; but'
'I hcrcfore,
" judgments muft be certain and define in all refpeels.
" we conclude, ihat the Dctcndant cannot be imprifoned, until his
" moft Chriflian Majcft" fhali declare, zhat the reparation is fadsqThe is rendered nniieceary
anfwer to the 11 queflion
.
by the akov'e iinfw~r to th : fecond queltion."
The foregoing anfwers having been given, it only remains for
the Court t6 pronounce fentcnce upon you. This fentence muft
be governed by a due conlideration of the efiormity and dangerous

tendency of ihe offences you have cort mitted, of the wilfulnefs, deliberation, and malice, wherewith they were dorie, of the quality
ai.d d gree ol the offended -ind offenderthe provocation given; and
all other circumflances d.ich fnay any -vay aggrayate or extenuate
the gulilt.
T*hefirft crime in the indi6tment is an infra(ticn of the law of
Nationi , This law, in its lull extent, is part of the law of this
State, and is to be collected 'rorm the praftlce of differcnt Nations,
and the authority of writers..

The peron of a public minifler is facred and, inviolable. Whoever offers any violence t6 him, not only Affronts the Sovereign he
rcprefents, but alfo hurts the common fafety and well-being ot nations ;.-he is guilty of a crime againft the wholi world.
A
All

COURT of Orn and TER.LAtNEM_&Z. at _P&,,deilhia.

117

All the reafons, whiih eflablifh the independency and inviolability 174:
ef the per on of a Miniihr, pp!v like" ifie to Fecuie the irnmtnitie's
of his hcuje: It is to-be deflended J- all outrage ; Itis under a
peculiar prote&ion of the 'a-s ; to invade it's Ireedom is a cr;me
agamnlt the St.Lte and all other natiops.
The Ccntes of a Miniffer, or thofe of his trai, partake alfo of
his inviolability. The indcpcndency of a M.inifter e.tel ds to' a1
his houfliold ; tkeft nre fo co;nCe-d '-withhim, that they enjoy his
privileges ,nd follow his late, The Secretary to the Embat!51 has
his comniiiion from the Sovereign himfelf; .he is the moit dijiaguifhed chara&er in the fu.te of a public'Minifter, and is in fome
inflances confidered as a kind of public Minifler hir'felf. Is it not
then an extraordinary infult to ufe threats of bodily h-rm to his
perfon in the domicil of the Miniftr Plenipotenti;!ry ? If this -is
tolerated, his freedom of condu& is taken away, the bufinefs of hi 3
Sovereign cannot be tranfa&cd, and his dignity and grandeur will.
be tarnilhed.
You then have been guilty of an attrocious violation of the law of
nations'; you have grofsly infulted gentlemen, the peculiar obje&sof
this law (gentlemen of amiable charazers, and highly elteemed by'
the govexnn'ent of tis S te) in a moft wanton and unprovoked
manner : And it is now the intereft as well as duty ot the goverment, to animadvrt upn your condu& with a becoming feverity,-fuch a feverity at may tend to reform yourfelf, to-deter others
from the commillion of the like crime, preferve the honor of the
State, and maintain peace with our great and good Ally, and th
whole world.
A wrong='opinion has been entertained concerning the conducl
of Lard C&Vfy
' j ice Holi and -the Court of King's-Bench in En,land, in the noted afe of the Ruffian Amballador. They detainled the offepders, after convifion, in prifon, from term to term, uintil the Czar Peter was fatisfied, without ever proceeding to jiidgmnent ; and from this it has been inferred, that the Court doubted,
whether they could infli& any puntIhnient for an infraaion of the
law of nations. But this was -not the rafon. Tfie Court never
doubted, that the law of nations formed.a part of the law of England,
and that a violation of this general law could be punifled by them;
but no punifhmnent lefs than death would have been thought by the
Czar an adequate reparation for the arreil of his Anmba;ador;
2his punifhment they could not infli&, and juc' a fentence as they
could have-given, He might have thought a frefh infilt. Another
expedient was therefore fallen upon. However, the Princes of th,.
world, at this day, are more enlightened, and do not require impracticable nor unreafonable reparations for injuries of this kind.
The fecond offence'charged in the indi6Lment, namely the Affault 'and Battery, needs no. obfervations.
Upon the whole THE Cot' R', alttr a moft attentive confiderat.on of every circumllance in this' cafe, do iward, and dii e& me -6
pronounce th following fcntence :-

Lis
1784.
t

CASES ruled aad adjudged &c.

That you pay a fine of one hundred French Crowns to the Cornmonwealth ; that you be imprifoned until the 4 th. day of 7uly 1786,
which will make a little more than two years imprifonment in the
whole; that you then give good fecurity to keep the peace, and
be of good behaviour to all public Minifters, Secretaries to Embaffles, and Confuls, as well as to all the liege people of Pennfylvania, for the fpace of feven years, by entering into a recognizance,
yourfilt in'a thoufand pounds, and two fecurities in five hundred
pounds each: that you- pay the colts of this profecution, and remaia
committed until this fentence be .complied with.

