SaPrMR, COURT of PMlfylv'ania.

457

aUrpofe of-bringli g aaions. Stale Laws. 3o. He urged, that twis 1789.
law, as well a, othe'rlaws of the Province, was recognized andc6n- "
firmed by the aat 6f the 28th of 7anuary, 1777 ;'that fich letters ot
•dminiftration were a competent authority by the law of'nations;
Godb. 83. 47. and that it had been detcrmined in a filter Statc, that
letterso'fAdminiftration granted in "A'ev-York, were fufficient to
inmirttain aalions in Gonniocut. Kirb. Re. 270.
8erjeantaind Sw it contended, that the necerary operz.:ion of thz
Revolution, - had altered the law declared in the a& of Affembly,
and the words " out of the province," were 'evidently meant of
places;'within the Briti.h dominions. They urged, that this was
In attempt to give more force to the'letters bf'adminiftration, than
they would be entitled to even in the Briijh dominions; for, if
'there were bona notabilia, in England, and in Irland, letters of admini iration,muit be'taken out in both kingdoms. 2 Bac. Ahr. 399.
iI Fin. 59. pl. 6.ibi. 74 pl. I. or, eyen if there were hona notabilia in. two different provinces, as Canterburyand 2rk, letters
of adminiftration muff be granited in each. Palm. r63. The argunents ab ilcolivenitnti, ire likewife in favor of the Defendant; for,
:f this authbriiy is good, the greditbrs of the inteflaie mull purfue
'the adminiftrators in Ehglard, or any boreign coirntry, where the
law differs with refpe&'t the priority of debts. Befides, the fecu-.
r~ty given by adminiftiators, is only with relatiofi to the 4pparent
value of the perfonal efate w'here adminiftration is granted.-Sec
Art. of Confed. art. 4. Con/f. Penn.fefl. 342 State Laws 41.
The Cotrt, havingconfidered the cafe and 'arguments, were unanimoufly of opinion, that the letters of adniiniltration, granted by,
the archbilhop of York, were-not a fufficient authority to maintain
hn aC6tidn in this Commonwealth and gave,
Judgment for the Defendant,

BUNIR.verus N-IL.
I-I I S c'aure was removed by Habeas Corpus from the Court
of Common Pleas of -PhiladelphiaCounty, and, on the trial, a
verdiSi was found in favor of ihe Plaintiff, forC4, i o. 8. which the
Adefendant paid to the Pirothonotary,andthen moved-to flay proceedingi, cbntcndiiig, fhat as the Plaidtiff's demand was reduced below
f.ro. by a'dire& payment,, and not by difcount, or fet off, the
Flaintiffriufl pay thecolts.
IT'he Plaintiff, On the other hand, obtained a rule to fhew caufe,
why the Defendant fhould not- pay double cols, inder Ihe A&'ot
Affembly, which provides, that, ifthe defendant removes ihecaufe,
ond a fim uhder L.5o is found for the Plaintiff, thc Defendat
flall pay double colts.
T

Mmm

After

45~
1789.
L

.CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

After argument, by ,S iv, for the Plaintiff, and Tilghman, for the
Defendant, the rule to flay proceedings was marde abfolute; and
the rule for,payment of double coils, was difcharged.

THom-soN Pf. in Err. verfus MUssER: Two
Affions.

T

H ES E a&ions were removed by writs of Error from the
Common Pleas of Lancafiter County ; and, on return of the
refpe&ive reqords, the proceedings appeared to have been as follow:
I. On thefirfl, or larger, record, it appeared, that a Capias in
an aficn of Dett in the Detinet, iflued at the fuit of john MuJ/r
againil 7hn 2hqmpf-n, for 2oo,ooo weight of tobacco; and the declaration fet forth a penal bill, dated the -2 of Yanuary, 1784, by which
Jehn Thompfon binds himfelf in thepenalty of 2oo,ooo weight of net
crop tobacco, of the infpection of Frederikfurgh, or Falwmolh, on
Rappahannock river, in 'irginia,to pay roo,ooo wcight of tobacco,
of the fame infpeaion, to John Mlz4-2r, or his afligns, as foonas it
could be colleaed of thofe who are indebted to the faid John Mujer,

and the Obhgor; but the faid "7ohn Thompfon agrees, that, in cafe
it cannot be collected, or obtained, he will be anfierable for the
-fame."-Aiter Oyer of the bill, the defendant pleaded payment, the.
Plaintiffreplied nonfolvit, and thereupon iffle was joined.
The canfe was tried at Lancafler, on the ;th of December, 1786,
when the Plaintiff below gave in evidence the penal bill flated io
the declaration, upon which an indorfement was made and fubfcribed on the 25 th of May, x785, that "it was agreed by the
parties, that the within tobacco fhould be fettled at the current
price at Frrdericijburgh,on the Ifi of Mfay, 1784 ; at which time
the within bond is confidered due, and is to carrv interefi from the
date." There was, likewife, a receipt on the'back of the bill, figned
by Mufer's attoiney in fa6, on the 5 th of July, 1785, acknowledging that he " received te within bill in full."
Gn behalf of the Defendant below, two indentures were given
in evidence, from which, it appeared, that the Plaintiff and Defefidant had entered into a copartnerihip, for carrying on an in]and trade during a limited period; and on the indenture laff made
between them, a memorandum was endorfed, dated the 3 d of
fanuary, 1784, .fetting forth the receipt of the two penal bills,
on which the prefent a6lions were brought, and declarin that the
fame, when paid, were to go in difcharge of what was due from
Thompfon to MuJfer. Several letters were read from the latter to
the former, in which it was confeffed, ' that MuJir had no other
claim, but upon thefe bonds, againfi Thompfon, and that every pay,
ment

