r26

1785-'-v"-'

CASEs

ruled and adjudged &c.

of the Goveinor, who claimed it as a right to be Chancellor. N7
t.his reafon, many-inconveniences have been fuffered. No adequate
remedy is provided forabreadi of -truft; no relief can 'be obtained
in cafes of covenants'with-a penalty &c. This defe& -of jurifdi&ion, -has ne(effarily, obliged the Court upon fuch occafions, to refer
the queffion to the -jury, undef an equitable and. confciencious interpretation of:the agreement of the parties; and it is -upon that
gound, the jury muft .confider and-decide the prefent caufe.
His Honor,having recapitulated the evidence, concluded with the
following obfervations.
The bond is made payible in-eurrent wondy'of Pennfylvania;but,
I would afk, what is the'currentmoney of'cnnj .lvania? For hay part,
I know of none, -that can properly be fo called, for- current and lawful are fynonymous. .In Great Britain, the King by his .proclamation may render any.fpecies of coin a lawful currency.- ut here,
it can only be done by an a& of affembly; and except in the temporary laws for fupporting the former cmiflions of paper-money,
there is no pretence that-the legiflature-has ever interfered upon this
,abje&. The expreflions in the 2 SCO. ofthe a& of the 27t-11 January, 1777, cannot be "conftrued to make the Spanifh :milled dollars a
legal tender, as they are only mentioned by words of referrence;
but that which was declared to-be a lawful tender, and confequently, became the legal currency of the land, was the money emitted
-under the authority of Congrefs.
To that fpecies of money, therefore, the bond muff be taken 'to
relate; and the jury i-Wll either reduce the penalty to gold or filver, according to the -fcale of depreciation ; or, if they think it more
-equitable, they will find a verdia for the value of the tobacco, and
.give the plaintiffs legal intereft from the day 6f fale.
.The jury adopted the latter opinion, dnd found for the plaintiffs
,,with .3,600 damages and 6d. -cofis.
W LS ON'S
' JECTMENTY

Lefee verfus CAI

PB EL .

eates,for ihe defendant, when called upon at

.J-..a-the trial to confefs'Leafe, Entry and Onjier, confeffed Pafe,

Entry, and O!uJer -for.partonly of the tenements laid in the declaration.
This was oppoel by Bradfor. who contended, that the defendant having taken general defence, when he firft pleaded, and entered
into the common rule, he muff now confefs Leafe, E'Itry and Ou])eras
to the whole; but the plaintiff can recoer no more than he proves
the defendant to be in poffeflion of. I .Ait. Prac. 317 -.
BY THE COURT: The defendant muft in 'this -cafe, confefs
Leafe,
Entry.a 0uftar for the xvholc tenements laid in the declaration

"

This cafe was determined at -N. P

-

eirlyie o6i -te j6

CO MMON
-May, 1785, be fo

