4:
176o.

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

BY THE COURT. This Rum appears to have been fent to faStisfy P's Debt. If it iad been Money, there could have been no
doubt but the Defendant would have retained it. And the only
difference is -,at a Commodity was fent which muft be convei ted into Money; befbre the Sum to be paid to P. could be afcertained, but, as to P's intereft in it, the Cafe was the fame.. Therefore
judgment, by thewhole Court. was given for the Ditendant.
Gezv and Molana pro Quer--Galoway and Dickenjon pro Def.

The Lefee of
Prefent

ASH TON

verfus

LAWRFNqE ('RoWDON
WILLIAM .COLEMAN. I

AsliTON.

Juffices.
s

N fpecial Verdi&. Devife to thefir Her _Alal ofI. S. when
he flialkarrive to the Age of 21 Years, hepaying to A. and* B.
the Daughters of I. S. £. 4o each.-.dfter DevJcr's Death I. S.
liada Son, whoattained the Age of 21 Years, and paid his Sifters the
0

£. 40 each.

'1 he Queftion was, whether the Son of I. S. could take by executory. Del ife?- 2-'Itwas obje&ed for the Defendant, i ft. That this
being a prefcnt Devife it could not take Effe& becaufe to a Perfor
not in Si/e. 2d. That though it might be confitrued a fiture Devife,"
yet it -v%
as too remote; for an executory Devife mull take "effet
within tie Compafs of a Life or.Lives in effS, or at fartheft within
nine Months after: And in this cafe I. S. might have had no Son
but a Daughter, who might hzve had a Daughter, who might have
lbad a Son, who would have been the fir? Heir lkale of I. S. which
would have been too remote a Contingency, and would have fended to
x Perpetuity. And the Cafe muff be confidered as at the Time of
makingthe Devife, that is, how it might be; andnot howithas actually happened. 3d, That the Sonof I. S. ould not take, becauife
thdLimitation was to thefirf HeirMale and Nerno eJ2 Hres ivt-*
'is.
For the' Plaintiff it was anfwered: ift. That this was no prefent
Devife, the Teftator taking Notice that I. S. had no Son born by th'
Wordfirj? Heir Male, and ufing the Words wlen and paying.-2d.
That this Contingency was not too remote, becaufe the Teftator by.
the Wordsfir#fl -eir Male, muft have meantfirft Son; and that fuch
aConfiu~tion'muft be made asto carry the Ihtent of the Teftator into
Execution.- 3 d. Firfl HeirMaleare Words of Putchafe and ADfignatioPerfonge, and the Law will fupply the Words of -the Bdy in
a Will
. BY Ta COURT. The Intent of the Teflator is clear, that thefirfi
Son of I. S,lhould take. Therefore judgrent BY THE Co.URT.
. Cafe cited; r Lord Raym. 2o7 I.Salk 29. 7'albat's Cafes 44..
145- 1 Vern 729. -in .ev. 315. 2 Pent 311. I Pr. l-lians.
229. 2 Co. 20, 2 Peer. Jrwlia.,s-1.96. 2Salk 621.

50.

Chewv pro Quer. ?oland and D.ckenfan pro Def.
Fc

Is Asd- 279. I87. x .4ifl. 24.

*

.Apri

