Ct)I-,ON PLEAS of PC:a,. .'
GRAr.F

a County.

ve7fUS SMuITH's Adrnors.

T

HIS cafe came before the Court on a rule to (hew canfe, why
the Sheriff lhould not be dire6led to pofipone the fale of lands
taken in execution in the hands of the purchafors from -ohn Smith,
the cede: fon of Rcbart Smith, the inteftlate, till all the lands rermaining unfld in the hands of the other children of Robert Smith,
fhoud be ft! by virtue of the e'ecutio.
After argurn'ut, TH E ?PY.sID.ET fated the circumfances of the
cafr, and delivered the opinion oi the Court, in th.z following man-

Ler.I
Stirp ,,Pr'i.dent :-The fa&sagreed on both tides in this caufe,
are, that Rcbert Smith died inteftate indebted to fevera perfons, and
poire 'cdof a oniilerable real eaate, but not of fuficient perfonal
eltate to pay his dcbts ; that his a=iminifirators applied to the Or.
phan's C ut for an order to fell certein parts of the real efate, fulficient to pay the debts and maintain the children ; that fuch.order
was accoringly obtained, and that part of the real effate was fold for
that puroo( ;thtiawfubf.-qtrentappiication was made tothe Orphan's
GOurt frl a divifion of the remainder among the children ; that
the part alloted to John Smi;h, the efdel. fon, on that divifion, was
by him fold and conveyed to bon.zfike purzhafors; and that "ohn Smith
was himflf an admmniftrator, and negle&ed to difcharge all the
debts out of the fu m arifing from the fale of the lands ordered to be
fold by the Orpgan's Court, -but wafted the money, and is f6ppofed
infolvent.
Zoome of the creditors of R4hert Smith, whofe debts remained tinpaid, have fince obtained judgments, and iffued executions agin't
the lands of the inteftate, as well' thofe (old by John Swidh, under
the order 6t divifien, as againit the lands remaining unfold in the
hands of the younger children.
T hree quelftons have arilen unon the argument.
i. Whether, upon the death or the nteflate, his larnds were bound
to the payment of the debts, in fuch a m4nner, a. thait they may be
taken in execution and fold, nol withilanding the heir mAy hava
previoufly fold and conveyed thi. fame to bnapde purchafors ?
2. W:.ether the purchafors frohi one of thle heirs, is bound to
contribute to the other heirs ?
3. Whether the purchafors under the order of the Orpi an's Court,
are likevife bound to contribute?
I. In order to folve the firit queflon, it will be neceThrV to take
into view the feveral a&s of Aflembly whizh fubje& lands to the
payment of debts.
The a& of 17oo fubje&b all lands of debtors to fale on judgment
and execution againfi them, their heirs, e.ecutozs, or adminiftra.
tors.

PpPp

The

48:
789.
v

CASEs

ruled, and adjudged in the

The ad of r7o5 repeats the fame provifion, with the refiriction, that, if the clear yearly profits will pay the debt in feven
years, the land flhall be deliveied to the Plaintiffupon a reafonable extent;
Under chefe adts the ital eflates of Aebtors have been held liable
to fale by execution, whether they be living, or dead; if living, under a judgment and execution ag-inft them-fclves ; it dead, under a
judgment and execution againfi their heirs, executors, or adminijIrators.
By the Intefiate A&, paffed likewife in 1705, there is a particular provifion in cafe of inteflacy, that the Adminifirator may fell
fuch parts of the real eftate as the Orphan'sCotrt fliould allow of,
as fufLcient to pay the delits, rmintain the children, and improve
the refidue of the eflate. B1v this a& the furplufage, or remaining
part of the inteflate's lands, not fold,'or ordered to be fold, by virtue
of that'ad, is direded to be divided among the inteftate's widow
and children, in the proportions therein expreffed.
. Although thefurphfage only is here direaled to be divided, yet
the confirudion has always been, that where there are no debts,
or wheye.they have' been otherwife fatisfied, t6e divifion fhall notwithflanding take place, the ad being confidered as a general law
of defcents and diftribition.
It is contended, on one fide, that the wordfurplufIge in the ]atter affimplies firongly thatthe remainingpart only ot the real eflate,
after payment of dets, is.vefled in the heirs, and that they fall take
nothing till the debts are paid; or, if they do take them, it muft
be cum ontre.
On the other fide, it is faid, that the ad was made fora particulhr
purpofe, that the word furplufage relates only to the remainder of
the lands not orderedto be foid by the Orphan's Court, and that there
are no words which expref or imply the furpiufage to mean after
payment of debts.
'Upon the former conftruc"iorl, however,. it is urged, that, immediately on the death of the inteflate, there is a Liin cieatd on all
real eflateentering
in favor of the creditors. '
the
. Without
into the dodrine of Liens under the words of
this ad; which wouldonly affe& the eflates of perfons dying intflate; I would choofe to confider the queflion on broader ground ;
that is, how tar, and in -what manner, the real eflate of deceafed
perfons,, whether they die tdiate or inte/?at,, is bound by our laws
to the payment of their debts.
That fuch real efiates are a fund for the payment of debts, is not
controverted ; but, it is contended, that they are no otherwife a
fund after the death of the debtor, than in his lfe: time; and that
as he himfelf could have:aliened before judgment, fo his reprefentatives could likewife alien, and that the lands are not fpecifically
bound, till judgment againft the executors or adminifrars;a-that
if,

Coxrvuow PLEAS

of Ph'adtlphiaCouny.

483

if , indeed, they arc then-unfold, they remain a fund, but if aliened, 1789.
no remedy rermains except a perfonal one againf the feller.
Th2 real and perfinal etates are both funds for the-payment of
debts. The perfonal eftate, there is no doubt, is immediately
bound on the d-ath of the debtor; it goes into the hands of the ekecutor, or adminiftrator, and is affets iihis hands for the payment
of dents; fpecific perfonal property, being in its natureperifhable,
may 6e fold for t.at purpofe, and the-executor, or adminifirator, is
perfonally bound to anf wer for the value. in the cafe of the adminifirator, he muft give fecurity befere the adminifcration is committed to him : In the cafe of an executor, being intrufed by the
tettator, he gi.'es no fecurity in the firft infance; but, in cafe of probable infolvency, he may be compelled likewife to give fecurity.
In both cafes, the whole perfonal eflate, or its value, is bound,
from the moment of the debtor's death, to the payment of his debts.
The real eaate is likewife confeffedly a fund for the payment of
debts. It is a fund, however, that does not afually go into the
hauds of the executor, or adminiftrator, as affiets in the ordinary
courfe; butit is a funad, made fuch by pofitive law, in atother form ;
that is, creditors may.iffue executions, and fell it for the payment
of their debts, on a judgment againft the executor, or adminiftrator;
for, it is not neceifary, nor has it been ufual, to bring the a&ion
againft the heir. The lands, however, go into.the hands of 1he
heir or devifee, who gives no fecurity, and between whom and the
creditors there is no privity: They are made a fund for the payment
of all debts, and mult neceffarily -have been intended by the Legiflature to be a certain, and not a precarious fund ; for, fince it is declared, that the creditors may take them in execution on ajudgment
againit the executor, or adminiftrator, it muff be meant that they
fhould have the fruit of that execution ; and as there is the fame reafon
tnder the law, that they ihould be equally liable with the. perfonal
eflate from the death of the debtor, they muff neceffarily be liable
in fuch a manner as to be anf.verable at all events, which can no
otherwife be, than by confidering them as fpec.fcally :able in
whofever hands they may be. If it were otherwife, they would
prove no fu.nd at all ; for the devifee, qr heir, knowing that if
judgments were obtained, he fhould ldfe his land, would, in every
infance, where he apprehended debts beyond the amount of the.
perfonal eltale, immediately fell them, And thereby entirely defeat
the. intent of the Legifleture, in making them a fund for the payment ofdebts.
The mifchiefof this do-arine is (ill
more firiking, ifwe confider, that the eflates of the inhabitants of Pennfylvania, out of the
ditv of Philadelphia, are chiefly real eftates, and if they weie
immediately alienable by the heirs, vithout bing afterwards liable
for the anceflors debts,: few creditors to any amount would ever
recover their debts, although 'perhaps the debts mamy really have
been contra&ed on the credi:t of the lands.
Another

484
I.9.

CA SIs ruled arid adjudged in -he

Another confequence might likewvife foilow, thzt where tfie

~ father dies indebted leaving fufficient real efrate, and but little
perfonal, if the heir, or devifee, being likewife indebted on his
own account, takes the land in the manner contended for, thent
his creditors by obtaining judgement again!l him, before h;s fathler's
can obtain judgement againif the executors, will recover their
debts out of his f, ther's lands,,whofe creditors would in that cafe
be entirely cutout.. This woil1d certainly be tce u.-f,,..nd repugnant to the'fpiAt of our laws, ever to receive the fanaion of
a court of iufqice.
On thef' -grounds, it is, as I take it, that lands, of deceafed perfons, have aIwayq heretofore been confidered as liable to be taken
in execution for debt. in the hands of a ptrchafor from the heir. or
devifee. It is a cqnftru&ion of the law that has fo lc.,g prevaile'!,
that it would be now very dangerous to unfettie it, as many titles
to land may depend upon it.
Although there may not have been any exprefs determ-.natiov of
this, point, yet a point has been determined hinich is wirh:n the
reafon of the cafe. A widow's right' ot dower commences with
her marri ge; it is held fo facred a right that no judgment, recognizance, mortgage, or any incumbrance whatever, ma.te by the
hufband alter the marriage, can at common law a,.,* h rit of
dower: even the king's debt cannot affe& her. Yet it ha been
held under our aas of Afiembiy, for making land" chattles for the
*paymentof debts, that as to lands taken in execution after the dea&h
of the debtor, the widow is barred of her dower. If the widow
.,hofe right initiated with the mairiage,/.hall lofe her dower in
favor of creditors, by much ftronger r.afon the heir, whofa right
did not commence till the death ot the debtor, thould be barred from
taking the land difcharged of the drbts.
II. the fecond queftion in this cafe is, wheiher, after a banafi(,e
fale by one of the heirs, the purchafor is bound to contribute in aid.
of the other heir., whofe lani remains unfold ;
Where there is equal equity in two contendivg parties, it is always an unpleafant tafk to de.cide between them ; and, in that cafe,
there can be no fitisfa qory rule but theflrilumjus. If there/hould,
however, be any laches on one lide, and none on the other, this, even
on equitable principles, will have confiderable weight in the deciflon.
The rules of contribution, as they appear in Herbert'scafeln
3CO,13, are thefe-If a man is feized of three acres o land and enters into a recognizance, or I'atutc, ana enfeoffs A of one'acre, and
B of another. and'thc third deiccnds to the heir; in this cafe, if ex-ccuticn is fued only againi1 the heir, he fh all not have contribution ;
for, coming to the land without confideration, he fits in the place of
his ancdLlor, and/ hal! not have contribution againft hny purchafor:
But, if execrtion be fued againfi one of the Furchafors, he (hall
have contribution againt the other purchafor and the heir, So,
if

CoIMMoN PLeAS of P4la,:piia Cczt.

85

if judgment be obtained againft a man that diesleaving two 5aughters, who make partitinn, in this cafe, if one only is charged, 1hi
thail have contribution ; for, as one purchafor fhail havecontributioi againift another, fo one heir thall have contribution againtl another heir, for they arc _r.ualijure. The die7zrn, that the heir ihall
not have contribution againft any purrhafor,clearly means any purchaforfrom the ancefi,,r, and cannot confiftently withj the cafe flated
in Coke mean any other. If then, one parcener (hall have contribu-ion againti ahother parcener, it is moft clear, that eneco- heir under
ourlaws of dufcent, ihall have contribution againft another c-heir.
But a difniineion is made between a co-heir and a purchafor under
him. Every purchafor, except in fome fpecial cafes, flands in
the thoe of the perfon he purchafed from, and cannot have a better
title than he-ha. ; and, as to contribution, he holding under one
of the co-heirs, mutt be conlidered as in ejualijure with the other
co-heirs.
One of the fpecial cafes, where a purchafor tands in a more
favorable light than the opvflan purchafed from, is where thc:e is a
fecret trufl, and the purchafe'is made without notice, and there the
purchafor (nall hold the land difcharged of the truft. But there appears no'finil.irity between that cate and thi-, where the law of.
the land, having made real eflzatcs chattles for th& payment of
the dzbts of the anceltor, every purchafor from the heir mull be
refihmcd cogniziat of it, and is bound to take care, it he wull
make the pnrchaf4 to. be fecured againfri ficuh debts. If he neg!e&s this,.he feeris to coifide in the Ieller that he hath both the
will anf ability to do it.
The hardfhip upon purchafors may, in particular inftances, be
r..a., but itmaygenerally be prevehted by a.proper caution. Where
there has been a fufpicion of outilanding debts, it has been. very
ufual to make the purchafe tinder an execution. At any rate, the
findimenral fecurity which the law has given to creditors fhould
not be defiroyed, or the title of co-heirs affeded, by the omiflions,
or temerity, of purchafors.
It is here fuggefied, that there m,-y be probably fufcient in the
hands of the younger children to pay the debts, without calling
on the putchafors. But, isit reafonable, is it jul,, or can it be legal, that the younger children fhould be ftript of all their fortunes,.
.nd that the fhare -lloted to the eldeft fon, .lho had no better right
of exemption than they, (hould not bear Part of the burthen ?
cfpecially, as thofe younger children had no participation in the
fate, or wafting the money ; nor was it by any prccaution whatever
in their.power to prevent either; whereas it was in the power of
the purchafors to be indemnificd, if they had thought proper. Such
a doar9ne would enable the eldcr fon, in moft carfe, to lay the
whole burthen upon the younger children, who are frequently
helples's; and, during their. minority at leaft, prevented from flandhim.
i.g an eq,:al chance with

Iii. The

y7s9 ,

486
1 7 S9 .
L-v-d

CASEs

ruled and adjudged in the

III. The. remaininzpoint to be confidered, is, whether the purchifors under the order of the Orphan's CGurt are likewife bound
to contribfite ? Thefe purchafors, I acknowledge, appear to me
to ftand in a very difMlrent light from the voluntary purchafors
from the eldef fon. The law, for the benefit of the families anWl
creditors of perfons dying inteflate, has vef'ced the Orphan's " ourt
with a power to dire& the fale of certain parts of the inteftate's
real elare for the paymnnt of his debts. The famne law has dire&ed thN means of intormation to be given to the court, to prevent
imnpolition and the*uneceffary difdmemberment of the real cfatc.
The power given to the Orphan's Court by this a& is very great,
and ought to be difcreetly exercifed ; but when the fale is made
under their order, it is certainly a good one. The adminiarator
is vefted with as complete a power to fell the fpecified part of the
real eftate, as he has by the common. law to Tell the perfonal ; and
the purchafors froni him ought to hold as fecurely in the one cafe,
as the other. To fay, that, becaufe the adminittrator is to exhib!t upbn oath an account of the debts, therefore the purchafors are
To look to the payment of thofe debtq, is in efFe& faying, thatthe
purchafors are to look to the legal exercife of the power vetted in
the Orphan's Court, who may, unqueftionably, impofe fuch terms
upon the adminillrator, as are necefary to fecure to the creditors
and children, the confideration money arifing from the fales ; and
fuch fectirity has in fa& been required in mar inflances by the
Orphn's Courts in Pehnnfyi'vania. Befides, if iae purchafor is to
look to the payment of the debts, he muit, likewife, look to the
other objefts for which the land is to be fold-; that is, the education and maintainace" of the children, and the proper improement
of the refidue 6f the eflate : which no law founded in reafon could
require.
The cafe of there pufchafors, however, is not regularly before
the court; their lands have not been taken in execution, nuither
re they comprized within the rule.
The rule, as it flands, muff be difcharged.

PRINroLE

T

verfus

M'CLENACMAN.

- I S ca-ife being referred, a report was made in favor 6f
the Plantiif, to which the following exceptions were filed by
the Defendant:
ift. For that the Referees .hnve entirely omitted to charge the
Plantiff 7ohn Prinie, with the fum of ..
r46. fpecie. for a lols
on a Policy of Infurance that he underwrote to the De!endant,
Blab: M'G~enachav, upon the Brig Nancy, .Richey, mafler, on a
voyage from Cadi to P iladtlhiez in 1775
,. For that in the month of December 1776 there was a ballance
due from John..Pring!eto Blair MCIenacan of £ 2455. 13. 4as appears by the account current Iurnifhed the 'Referees;
and

