42

4i-Ezs ruled and hdjudgei ift the

Sfhortened, i Str4. 427. -z Broiv.l. 47. 71. Hob. 68. 6 0. t AMd,
9-25. 2 Mod. 136. (rs. L 579. gro. C. 85. 86. 3 Lev. 55. 7 Salk;
124. I Burr. 9. 2 97th 7.
"3. And, in the third place, as there is no entry of the bond in
quellion upon the mortgage, fliewing that it was received in payment or fatisfa&ion of the intereft then due, "nor any proof that it
was fo intended by the parties, a prefumption naturally arifes, that
the bond was merely taken as a collateral, or ftipplementary, fecurity; and no debt, or duty, can be e:tinguithed, but by a fccurity of a higher.naure than the firf.
For thefe reafons, we decide the quellion fubmitted by the Referrees to the Court, in favor of the Plaintiff, and dire& judgment
to be accordingly entered upon the report.

DE HAVE14

verfus

HENDERSON.

'flHE Plaintiff was examining a witnefs to prove the purport of
J. an order given to him by the idjutant General, during the
late war, for the. refloration of his horfe, faddle and bridle, which
had been feized by the Defendant, as the property of a difaffe6ted
perfon,- although upon trial the Plaintiff was acquitted, when Levy
obje(ted, that the order itfelf ought to be produced, or frme pccount
given of its lofs, before the witnefs was admitted to give evidence
of its contents.
MIKLAN, Chief7ujfice.-The oath of the Plaintiffimuft be received to prove what has become of the order. It is, I think, the
only way in which fatisfa6tory information can be obtained on a
point of this nature.
The Plaintiff, bein, accordingly Aworn, and proving the lofs
of the order, he was allowed to proceed in examining the 'Wit.nefs as to its contents.

The Leffee of THOMPs ON etUx. verfus WHITE.
EJECTMENT for a houfre and lot in Recondflreet, in the city.
lot Philadphia. The aaion was tried by a Jury at bar,
in 7anuary term, 1788, and-a verdia given for the Plaintiff." A
motion was then made by the D-fendant's counfel for. a new
trial, which was argued,. in favor of the new trial, by Li"is an
-eatly, and, againft -it, by Ingerfol .and. Sergeant, in January term,
1789.; and, the.'Cburt having continued the caufe under advifeminnt, gave their opinion in the prefent term.
The cafe, upon the evidence; was as'follows :-Dorothy Gordon,
being foized in fee of the ioiety of the premiffes in queltion, in
termarried

