164

CASES ruled and adjudged &c.

In the prefent cafe, the condition of the "'effel did not preclude
the poffibility of cruifing, She mounted'16 guns, the had leave, by
the terms of the policy, to call at Beau/artformen, fhe was intended to be a cruifing vefel after the outward bound 'voyage was completed, and it might not be an unreafonable fu picion in the underwtiters, that the captain, unlefs exprefsly reftrained, might be
tempted to cruife in the outward bound voyage. Whatever their
reafons were, the underwriters had certainly a right to make it a
part of their contra& ; without it, they might have rcfufed to infure
at all, or they would perhaps, have demanded a higher premium ;
and therefore being Afipulated, the owners hould have complied
with it.
Thefe warranties in policies of infurance are required by law,
and by ,the conflant ufage of merchants to be ftri&ly complied
with ; they are generally expreffed in a few words, but where they
are plain and clear, it would be of dangerous confequence to this
ufeful branch of mercantile bufinefs, to introduce a loofe conftru&ion of them.
We are of opinion, upon the cafa fiated, and a view of the policy and orders, that the warranty has not been complied with, and
that judgment fhould be given for the defendant.
Judgment for the defendant.
MARRIT

et ux, verfus DAvEY et al. Executors.

T

HIS was an a&ion brought by a refiduary legatee under the
a& of the I2.Geo. 3. c. 16. x St. L. 4,49. to which the
defendant pleadedfully admin/ifered. The plaintiff thereupon moied for the appointment of auditors; but the defendant obje&ed,
becaufe his accounts had already been left by confent to refertees, on a former citation before the regifter of wills, &c.
THE CouaR, however, determined, that the former fettlement
was not conclufive ; and that, by the words of the a&, it was intended, new auditors hould be appointed, ex tenipore, upon the plea
of want of affets.
Rawle, for the plaintiff, Sergrant, for the defendant.
STOTESBURY

verfus

COVENHOVEN.

0

N an affidavit that the defendant was in confinement, and that
witneffes in his favour were about to leave the ilate,
THE COURT granted a rule to take their depofitions, although the
writ was not returnable 'till- the next term.
\material

SOMERS Vc~fus BALABREGA.

IT was

ruled in this cr-ce, that an Attorney's agrcemcnt te
refer, binds his Client.'
St: I ME

