Z56

iCASEs rIed and adjudged in t.

WEAVER

verfus

LAWRENCE.

D

EPLEVIN-The defendant. pleadcd property and gave bond
upon which Le.y fir the piaihtiff, moved for a Writ dkeproZ
prietatcprzbanda'; and after .arguVrtnt, on a rule to fli;v caufe m hy*
irfhould not iffue, thZ i -RESI-bE.T delivered the opihion of the Court as I ollows.
"
.

SHiPEq, PrYidet.-n Englaxd there are two kinds of replevin;
. w, when the Writ iifues" out of the cburt of
Ch~riciry: Second',, by the flatute 'of M1daribridge, wbich enables
the fherilf to ti,ake replevins without writ, and then, having taken
Itcuritv, be procceds on the complaint of the plaintil, either by
p:;rol, or precept to his bailiff. Iii the lattor cafe, the writ drpropr-etatepr,4'anda,hrlues at once upon claim of property; and, being tried by :an inqueft, if it is found Ior the plaintiff, the fherifl
goes on f6 make the- replevin; but, if for the defendant, he forbears.
This fu:rr:aqy procciding, with regard to the writ deprtprietlea
probanda, is confined, hie 1ei, to the cafe of a plaint in the Iheriff's
court, under the flatute ; for, i hen repflevins are at con.mon law, no
. .t e pr.tr'etae probanea iffbei tlf after the retuirn- of the
Aherift on.a flu'ies riplevin ; the original writ, or the alias, being
oi I d&cry
ry to the fheriff to make repleiin, and proceed in the
county coinr, and cre not reiurrable prccefs, as the plur'es is by
having in it 1.e dlalufe of - 'lneiis caujarnj-rifces." I., therelore,
the p:uries is retirned into the 1(ing.-Benc., or cnnmmn-I leas, with
a claim of property by the dek(,dant, a judicial vi-rit depreprietale
Iprckbnda xray ilue returnable into either of thofe courts. But on
this writ, it the fherifl".i ir:qref fnd propert) in thc defendant, the
plaintiff is not concluded, being only an inquytl of- office; and he
rn.Ly either bring a ne% repievin, or an aaion, of trCfpaf againft the
fveriff, in which the que-icn of property flall be finally tried. But
when the parties have alpeared in bank, and the defendant claims.
pr.ferly on plea, no writ e.eprprietaiepro.andacan iffue at all, but the
claim mut be tried in court.
Having thus flated the law in England, we muft now enquire on
vliat looting repievins are in -Paenjyivania,and under what law they
1-ij], by (,mnm!n

it is clear, that in fhis flate there can be no reple'vins imder the
Statute o 2,'arlbridge, fince there is here noJuch cunly cmurt to enftr..s,
i.n as in E'glana, ncr ar.y fh riff cmpowered by his own authority to n-.ke replevin; and, confequently, there can be noJuin.ryprzeceiq-r., as to the Nrit deprprielazeprolercda. MWith relpt 6 I
to writs of xerlcv:n at Co.mon Ltw, thte. leAife, cann9t. be
i ued in
foenrjsiv.na,
Icr
Want of a court of cibarice'y, trorib mlich
they might imt:e as an rgznallurit. Hcnce it Nas rtfeIary tor.-ake
a L.w for curitnie-, and this was acccrdingly done, in the )ear
175 bx a a oI A f-ib.y, %Nhichdi cst , ih-a 'i"it fiail be lawful

COURT of COMMON PLEAS, PhiddphiaCounty.

137"

! ful for the Juftices of each County, to grant writs. ofrepleviuin 1785.
4'all cafes whatfoever, where replevins may be granted by tlhlaws t_..4' of England, taking fecurity as the faid.law dire"&s, and make them
- returnable to the refpe&ive courts of Common Pleas, in tht proper
" county, there to be determined according to law." iStateLaws.43;
This ad feems then to have made a very confiderable alteration
in the proceedings in replevin: for, I ft. It does not recognize two
kinds of replevin, one by plaint, and the other by writ; 2dly. Replevins are made always returnable writs, and the parties appearance
required on the return; and 3dly. They are dire&ed to be there
determined, that is, in the Court of Common Pleas.-As the profeedings are different, fo has been the.pradticiunder the law; and
in writs of replevin here (as in other cafes) ajummons to the defeiidnt to appear, is always inferted, and * precife -day given for his
appearance. Nor is thewrit liable to b6 defeated by a claim of
property, as it is in England; where that claim, as I have already
obferved, puts an end to the fuit on the rlievin, fo that, if it is
afterwards revived, it muff be by the writ de proprietate probanda.
But iR PennJylvana. the prafic on a claim o proecrty has been
agreeable to the aa of alrembly; t61e fuit goes on, and, a-ltnough the
claim prevents the delivery of the gouds to the plaintiff in repievin,
yet, the defendant gives fecurity to deliver them, if, on trial, the
property fhall not be fbu.nd in him. This pra&ice, therefore, clearly fuppofes that the trial of property was intended, by the a& of
aliembly, to be in the Court o.Com'mon Pleas, and not elfewhere.
No writs de prretateprobanda have hitherto iffitued in this fRate.
Thefummary writ under the ifatute of Marlbridge,feems, indeed, to
be the orily one, which can, in moft cafes, be o real ufe, by the immediate intervention of an.inqueft to decide the claim of property;
but, for the reafons before 2ffigned, that cannot ifftue here..- The
judicial writ too, it it could .ilu.eagreeably to our aa of Affembly,
wrould rather occafion delay, than expedite the caufe, and could in
very few inflances anfwer the ends expeded from it. For,firy7, it
cannot illut till after the return of the pluries zrit of replevin, when
the time would, perhaps, be elapfed, in which it would be of moil
importance to determine the queftion of property : and, Jecondly, if
itfhould itrue and be execu

, itwould not be final, in cafe the

property thould be found for the defendant, being only an inqueft
of office, and the plaintiff ifiJi entitled to a new replevin, or an aclion of trefpafs againit the Sheriff.
In England moft cafes of replevin are founded on previous diftreffes for rent; and, iris even faid in fome books, that it lies in
no other. But here it ilues wherever a plaintiff claims goods in
the poffleffion of another ; and accordingly, things of great value, as
.j.s are frequently replevied. If,therefore, a hafty change of poffeiron fhould take place by a Sheriff's inquell, it might be attended with great inifchietis; and veffels loaded, and ready to fail, might
be ordered ot of the polfeflion of thofe who have long held them;
.iwhouh abfq and willing to give fecurity to the value.

159"
F785.
---

CASs ruled and adjudged in the

On the whole, after the prefent prac! ice on rcplcvins has been orfo many years ftanding, and feems founded on a law of' our own,
We think it would be improper to make fuch an alteration, as woui
be.occafioned by iffuingjudicial writs de pronprietate probanda.
The rule difcharged.

TAYLOR verf24s KNOx., etal.
FINLAYSON ve fus .KNox, et al.

FO REIGN attachment.--In thefe cafes rules had been obtain-

ed to ihew caufe of adion, and why tme attachments 1hould
not be quafhed.
On th argument, the garnifhe.e H-renderfon (who was alfo a copartner
defendants)
feveral "--That
witnelbs,David
by ihofe
teflimonywith
thethe
following
facts produced
were eflabliflhed
Knox
came to Phladelphia in the Ipring of 1784; that he brought furniture with him, hireo ,dwelling houfe and ftore, and profeffed
his bones ere." That he weni to Vrginia in
layfailed
"toand
an intention
kcbruary
!7g5,
thence o Englan', mIconfequence
receiving intelligence of fome mifcondu&l of*-another partner, of
named
Gowan,
whorefided
there,
and
had
never
Amlierica. That
during his abfence, and at the time of layingbeen
the inattachments,
the
copartner,
now
garnifhee.
in poileffionofof the houfe in
Phinadelphia,with mch thecontinued
fame efeb!ifhnent
fervants &c. but
fter the attachments were laid. he broke up houfe-keeping. That
David
a fingle
man, and this"/Rate,
it was not or
known,
had takK~nox
en thewasoath
or allegance-to
not. whethcr he
The plaintiffs to few their caufe of action. produced affidavits
f accounts from their refpedive books. fworn to before the Lord
of Lon.on.
navor
The qeion being argued by Ingrfol
and Rawle, in fupport of
the Gotion, and by Leis and
adcocks
ageine
in he
PRSIDEcaT,
at anaijoumed it
on the
teing
i~t otFebruary 1786, dlivered the
opinion of the Court.
SHIPPEN,"Preden.J.The fare fpoint to he decided, is, whether
the orei gn attahments ought not to be diffolved,on he proot
givei of Knox's being ln inhaitant of P
w
knfowlvgni,
at the time they
ilued
We? would
laod
ying dow' any general rules as to what ill
o will inot,
make a perfon an inhabitantwithin the attachment law,
leacafos fotjld hereafter happen, which might come within thofe
general rules, but were not in the contemplation of the Court in
the particular care before them. We think, however, ifapry genehl rule was made, it would be reafonabl, and very onfonant to our
aws an'i confitution, that the perfon's refidence here, to make him

