tAsr

t7T8.

ruled and adjudged in fhe

legtproof, is an alternative oppofed to the number of withee//s.

V-J-- to this, it has been anfwered,

Bm

that lets proof than two witneffes,

could not, confifiently with the reafon and nature of-the fubje6t, be
intended ; and that other legalproof, is put in oppofition tofilemn affirmation, in order to admit the atteftation of an oat,-whether adminiftered upon the Gofpels to a Chr/ian, or upon the Pentateuchto a
.ew; whether with the folemnity of an uplifted hand, according to
fome feaaries; or with the ceremonial of the hand placed beneath
the thigh, as it is pra&ifed by the Gentoo nations.
This appears, upon the whole, to be the genuine expofition of
the a&; and the adverfe doftrine is pregnant with fo much abfurdity and inconveniency, that it ought not to be imputed to the Legiflature, nor ought it to receive the fan&ion of the Court. Befides,
we find, thatthis very a& requires the teftimony of two, or more,
witneffes to the probate of a nuncupatlive Will, and likewife, to the
revocation of a Will; and every principle which could make -it necaffary in thofe inftances, muff, ajfrtiori,operate in the cafe befofe
us: For, it could not be defigned, that greater folemnity hould be
obferved in a verhal Teftament, or in rtpealing, than in making, a laft
Willand Teftament;-an a& of the moft ferious and important nature, not only as it affe&s the Teftator, buft as it affects the peace
and welfare of pofterity.
In (hort, from the uniform "tenorof the A&s of Affembly, from
the pra&ice of the Courts, and from the other analogous fe&ions of
the fame law, it is eident that the Legiflature meant to require two
witnelks, in pr~oof of every teflamentary writing, whether for the
difpofition of real, or peilonal eftate. This opinion, in which the
Court Unanimoufly concu'r, we are happy to deliver; for, it would
be dangerous indeed, were the idea tolerated for a moment, that a
notary, or any individual, could alone, according to the oppofite
conflru&ion, prove the validity of the Will which he had written.
By ruch means the very purpofe of Wills might be defeated, :nd
the falleft fcope given to foul and fraudulent impofitions,
BRYAN, J7uhce.,-.The witnefs, on the prefent occafion, is indubitably a man of fair and upright chara&er; and, therefore, it is the"
more particularly to be obferved, that the opinion of the Court is
founded upon the indifpenfible neceffity of having two witneffes to
the probate of every Will.
BY THE COURT: Let the fentence and proceedingg of the Regifter's Court be reverfed.

.KIRxBtIDX et al. Pifs. inErr. verfus DuRDEN.
E laintiffs in Error had executed a Bond, bearing dat, the
23,d of O8oer, 1784, to the Defendant, with a warrant to con-

.fes Judgmint thereon, dire&ed "Th ,'Tlm. Lewis, Attorney of the
"Court of Common Pleas at Newtown. in the county of Buaks, or to
" any

H-IGH CouRT of ERRORS and

APPEALS of Pennfy

vania.

289

" any other. Attorney, of 2ny other Court, and at the fame ti ene a
"mortgage of. lands in tile fame county, as a ollateral fec:w-ity."
'
The Judgment was entered iii the -'upr~nze Cmirt, a3 o'
7
county ofSeptemxer Term 1 7 ' 7 ; vho-xeupon a -writ ol Erra, wa i -.
out, in order to fet the Judgmiit afide, aa i rhe foIi.o:.vin.- error; af.
figned:
C u,....f'o rtc
Afl. That the Judgment was entered in te
'
olv. that
a debt which arofe before the paifin.- ol the Ael of iA
gave original jurifdition to the Supreme Court, in'the c ::;ty fPhiladeiphia.
'2dly. That the warrant of Attorney did not authoriz oth. entering
up the Judgment in toe Supr'eme Court : and
dl -The general errors.
o which in nullo tfl erratun was pleaded.
Swift, for the Plaintiff in error, argued,' I. hat the Su;rcme
Court never had orginaljurifdi.ion'till the I.-t Caax; for, the aby which it was inftituted, gives only an apellate):w.:di7 : i State
L'aws. 14. 115. e8e. r. and that it wa. evide-tly the intention of

the Legiflature to confine, even the exerzife of that power, to fi:its
exceedingC.5o. Ibid. 338, 9 .Sel.4. He infifted, that the A U of A;frnbly giving the original j urifdiion, likewife firniflied a fatisfaFLry iriference, that the Court did not previouily poiljfs it; but tha.t,
at all events, after that act was pa.e, no a&Jon, fb; any antecedent
debt or caufe, could be brought in the Suprene Court; nor, even for
debts arifing after that a& was paffed, in any other county than Ph.'adephia. 4 State Laws. r 54. Se7. 4- 5

-

II. On the fecrnd error, he ftated, that, as it was an error in
fad, the Defendant's plea had allowed it; for, if the Plainti" a.igned
error in fad?, -anderrorin law, the Defendant ought to joia ifhie is
to the faot, and plead i nullo eft erratum as to the matter of law ;
but ifhe pleads in nullo.e/? erratum only; he adanits the fa.s, and
e waved" this
the Jidgment muft'be reverfed. 2 Bac. dbr. 2 18.
advantage, however, and contended, that the Warrant, authorizing
any Attorney, to enter 'up the Judgnent in the CGurt of C-m
Plas, of Bucks county, coulkj not be extended to autharize the
entering it u2 ih the Supene''ourt' for, where an inetor
.
thing;is
mentioned, a fuperior cannot be intended. 2 C,. 46. and fuch has
been the uniform determination of the judges. 2 Int. 457. 8. The
warrant of Atforney gives a bare authority, which ought to be ftrict"ly purfued; and, though directed to any Attorney of any other Cour!,
this cannot be taken to mean of a Superior Court, but only Courts of
equal and coneurrentjurifdicion. Nor can the jurifdiaion be given
by crfent (which he faid, howevey, was not the prefent care) for,
common recoveries are certainly a&ions by confent, and yt it was
neceffary that a law flhould exprefsly veff, in the Supreme Court, a
power to entertain them. I State Laws 224. But the intentitn 6f
the parties appears by the mortgage,, as well as by the Court fp dified in the warrant, to hay: been to bind only the eftate in Buckt
county; whereas, by entering up the Judfgment in the Supreme Couh,
a lien
0o
-

290

1788.
- -

CAsEs ruled and adjudged i. thei

a lien-is obtained upon the lands of the Plaintiff in error. t.5roujrhut
the State.
Jf7lcocks, fok the Defendant in error, admitted, I. That it had
been long a queftion, whether the Supreme Court had original jurifdi&ion before the paffing of the late law ; but, even refolving
that point in the negative, he contended, that the Court might receive and fuf'ain a caufe under the peculiar circumllances of the pre; ent cafe. For, being an a&ion of debt, it was, in its nature cognizable there, and no law prevented the parties from confefling
Judgment, by confent, without the trouble and expence of an original. This was not, therefore, to be conftrued into an exercife of
original jurifdi&ion ; but merely a paffive acquiefcence in the agreement or the parties, to enter a Judgment upon the records of the
Court. Such, he faid, had been the old and conllant pra&ice in
Pennfylvania, both before and fince the revolution, as well with refpeVto the confeffion of Judgments, as to the entering of amicable
acions; and if the matter were to be traced, the titles of many real
eftates would befound to depenJ upon its legality-fo that the greatell
diforder and uncertainty would be introduced by a contrary determination at this time. If, then, it was never doubted that the Court
had a Lufficient authority to compel the parties to perform an agreement, aftbrtiori, they may compel the performance, when the agreemnent is made with the folemnities of a warrant of attorney, and
under circumfiances which would otherwife be attended with the
mof pernicious confequences.
II. With refpe& to thefecond Error,he faid, that, if it were neceffary, the Court would permit him to alter his plea ; but as it had
been agreed to difcufs the validity of the warrnvt of Attorney on the
prefent iffue, he hould contend, that the cafes cited did not fupport
the obje&ion. He admitted, that when an a& of Parliament en' into an exaa enumeration, and it appeared from the fubjea,
t~re
that nothing more was intended, than what was expreffed, there the
rule prevailed, and a recapitulation of inferior things, could not, by
implication, affe& things of afuperiornature. But when an a& contains general aid comprehenfive words, which indicate an intention
to embrace a higher obje&, he infil.ed, that the fpirit and meaning
of the law, was not to be fettered by the mode of expreflion. This
controverfy, howeiver, he diftinguifhed from the cafe of ftatutes ;
for, he faid, it did not arife on the confiruaion of an a& of Parliament, but whether an inilrument, executed by an individual, was
It was, therefore, a
fuflficient to authorize certain proceedings.
matter of a private nature, and mull be conftrued, as all contra6ls
between Debtor and Creditor are confirued, that is, according to
the true ihtent and meaning of the parties. The form of the war'rant is the fame that has been ufed for more than a century paft ; it
is general ; it is comprehenfive; and it has ever been taken in that
.fenfe, which gives the greateft benefit to the obligee, that can be
.obtained from the confeflion of the Judgment. The late ac of Af-.
lembly (paHFd 8, temer Z78o,) which gives original Jurifdiion
to

HIGH CoURT of ERRORS and APPEALS of Pennfyvania. 29T
to the Supreme Court in Philadelphia, in SeO7. 4. plainly fuppofes

the caufes to be fuch as are inftituted by Capias, Summons, /ttachments, Scirefacias, Partition, or Dower; all which modes are particularly fpecified; and it certainly holds forth no idea to prevent an
;amicable fuit being entered, or a Judgment being confefied, by a
fpecial warrant of attorney: as in the prefent cafe, It was Aatural
to fpecify the Common PleasoBucks county, becaufe the parties lived
in Bucks, and the efate, upon which the mortgage was given, lay
in that county: but it was certainly in the power of the Obligor to
give authority to enter Judgment in any Court within the United
States-from the nature of the contra& it mfuft be prefumed that he intended to do fo, as well as from the terms of the warrant, which authorize the entering the Judgment in any Court in Amerira; and, agreeably to the eOablilhed pra&ice and interpretation of fuch warrants
.ofAttorney, the Judgmnt has been confeffed in the Supreme Court.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the unanimous Judgmer: of the
Court.
M'IKEAN, Chief 7uflice,-We are happy that this caufe has come
before us fo Tecently after the pafling of the a& of Affembly; as,
by an early fettlement-of the praffice, much uncertainty and litigation may be avoided.
There are two grounds upon which, we are clearly of opinion,
this Judgment ought fo be let afide. The firfl is, that though it
has been entered, in purfuance of a warrant of Attorney, after the
"pafing of the law, yet the Bond is ofaprior date; and we find it exprcfsly enated, "that no fuit or ation Thall be commenced in the
"f aid Supreme Court for any debt or caufe which arofe BEFORE -the
,,paljing of this a8, except fuits of the Commonwealth, and fuch
f wherein the title of land, or other real eftate, may come in quef"' tion." For this reafon, therefore, we think that the Judgment
could not have been entered up, even in the ceunty ?f Philadelphia.
But, in the fecond place, whatever doubts may formerly have been
entertained, it is certain that, after the 2dof anuary i787, the originaljurifdielionof the Supreme Court is, by the 4th S8dion of the
fame a&, reftri&ed to the county of Philadelphia; and this Judgment
being entered, at a fubfequent period, in the SNpreme Court as of the
county of Bucks, there can be no doubt, that the proceedings are, likewife, on that account, erroneous and irregular.
The intention of the Legiflature was, evidently, to prohibit the
entering up Judgments on bonds &c. by virtue of warrants of Attorney in that Court, which fhould affe& the lands of the party in any
other county than Philadelphia; and the confequences would be fo
injurious, that, even if we could, we ought not to admit a different
conftru&ion of the a&. For, if one Judgment were entered in.
J'Ya/hington county, and another here; on thefame day, by wat principle
could we determine, which of thofe Judgments had the prior lien?
The qdeftion would be preduf&ive of great perplexity in the adminoltratiolt
002

I788.
.

292

x

CAsEs ruled and adjudged &c.

nifIration ofjuflfie; and might eventbially prevent the transfer of
]a,:.,. *which it is the .olicy ot this country to fatilitate and enc ur.-ge.
\V ith refpe& to the other obje&ions ;-the Court might give the
Dciendont.leave to amend his plea, fo as to remove the difficulty,.
hicI irifes from the afignment ofthe errors in fa&. And, though
twy,eimion on the extent of the warrant of Attorney, would reSJ.irt Idn:e cunfideration, yet, it is a rule, that the as of the parties,
.Lswell isa6its of Parliament, fhalI be liberally conlirued'to promote
I h..ve, 'thereforc, no eoubt, that if the Judgment
the remedy.
had been cnte:cd in the Supreme'Courtof the flate. of New-ferfey, it
wvukl Be eetned good there; although that Court is not .imilar to
But it is unneceffary
the Cciirt Tpecifically named in the warrant.
Ito pLonounce any detta rination upon thefe points, as our opinion is
unanimous, for the other reafons which have been mentioned.
Let the-judgment be reverfed."
wft fuggefted, that, asthe Judgment had been entered coram non
udi'e, the Haintiff had been wantonly driven to bring the writ of

Errr, .and migkt, therefore, be entitled to colts.
Lut, by MY.KEAN, Chief 7uflice.-If you had moved the Court
below, the fame decifion would havb iaken place; and the a& of
Afl~nibly is poiitiwe, that ,n the revfrfa? here'of a Jtd-me t, each
party flall pay his own .ol1s. See 2 State Laws.273. Se. 7.

COMMON

