62

CsSs

ruled and adjudged in the

MVEAUGH

verfus GOODS.

C

ERTAIN goods of "Br/ihmanufactlure being imported into
the County of Philadelphia, contrary to the A61 o"Ademblv,
paffed the ipth qf September 1778, they Were attached, 2nd this information filed againft them. The owners of the goods exhibited a
claim, and the mcrits of the cqfe were brought to trial, at an adjourned court, on the'i th of 7qnuary 1782, when the folloving
points of evidence were ruled.
In fupport of the information .one Scull was .alled az a witnef.,
wbo, being examined on the voire dire, faid that he alliftd in making
a feizure of the goods ; and, in cafe they wure condemned, but
not otherwife, he expe6led fonie compenfation from M'P'taug2's
generofity, although he had received ;no certaih promife of that
kind.
Lewis, for the Claimants, contended againif the adni iion of
Scull's teftimony; and urged that if a man, %ho is not, in Ja6k, interefted, apprehends himfelf to be fo, he will naturally be bi .ifcd
in favor of that fide, on which he prefumes his interelf to lie ;
a witnefs. See Stra.
which is a fufficient caufe to difqualif9'him a's
129.
Sergeant, for the informant, likened this to the cafe of an heir,
who expe&s to be benefitted by his Father's eflate, yet as that really
depends on the will and pleafure of the father, it is no I-round to
prevent his being a witnefs. Scull has no certainty of reward;
he. has not even a promife; and, whatever may be his expetations,
the matter Rill depends entirely on the will and pleafure of the informant.
But, BY THS COURT :---.--It nearly concerns the adminifiration ofjufiice, that witneffes fhould be free from every kind of biafs.
It is true, that Scull has no pofitive promife of a r:ward; but, we
think, the expetgation which he acknowledges, in cfe the goods
fhall be condemned, muft create fuch an influence in his mind, as
refiders it improper for him to give tealipony on this occafion.
Lewis offered in evidence a pas from a juftice of New.Jerfey,
permitting the goods in quefi n'to be conveyed through that Stite.
Sergeant obje&ed, ihat'the pafs of a'juti e of New-7erfey, could
not be given in evidence to defeat an A& of:the L.giflature of Pinn'fylvania.
To this Lewis replied, that it was oITred" merely to obviate any
imputation of -fraud in concealing it.
But, BY THE COURT it was declared, that the pats was not ad.miflible as evid.nce.
RA P

