COMMO

PLYEAS, Philalp'hia

County:
September Term, 1787.

DOANE'S Adminifitrators

rfHIS

vs. P1ENHALLOW

et al.

was a foreign attachment, in which, and in two Others
again~l the fame Defendants for the fame caufe, a motion

was made to quafli the writs.

After argument,

THE PRESIDENT

recapitulated the grounds of the motion, and delivered the opinion
of the court as follows:
. SHVPP.aN, Prefident.-On the hearing of this motion the Plaintiffs were called upon to fhew their caufe of aaion: They fhew that
on the x7 th of September 1783, a certain caufe, wherein El47ba
Doane was claimant and sppellant, againft the Brigantine Sufannab
and her cargo, and Johv Penhallow and others libellants and appellees, was tried in the Court of Appeals in cafes of capture eftablifhed by Congrefs in the city of Philadelphia. And that it was there
finally adjudged and decreed by the faid Court of appeals, that the
fentence or decree, given by the inferior and fuperior courts of
Judicature in the State of Xew-Hanpjbire in the f id caufe, fhould
be revoked and ann'lled, and the property fpecified in the faid
Thie Plaintiffs further
claim fhould be reftored to the claimant.
fhew, by depofitions, that notwithftanding this final decree of reverfal, the Defendants, although requefted, had refufed, and (till refufe, to reftore the'property fpecified in the claim of the faid EBijba
Doane, the faid Defendants being owners and agents of the privateer 44"Clary which captured the faid Brigantine Sufannah and
her cargo, but had converted and difpofed of the fame to their own
ufc. Upon this ground the aclion is brought to recover the value of
the

Cou T of Cc MMO'

PLEAS

of PhiladlphiaCounty.

219

the faid Brig and cargo againft the Defendants. Two other aqions
are brought by Ifaiah Doane and 7ames &heppard againft the fathe
Defendants for the fame caufe.
The motion to diffolve thefe attachnents is founded on a rule and
pia6lice of thiscourt, that in cafes of for;ign attachments, they 'will
examine into the Plaintiffs caufe of atLion, and if they find it not to
be fuch as would intitle him to hold the Derendants to fpccial. bail,
they will diffolve the attachment. This rule was founded on the
milchiefs which were found to arife from groundiefs attachments of
the fhips and property of perfons not inhabtiants or reiident within
this Sxate, and is conformable tc the fpirit of the attachment law.
The. counfel for the Defendants, in order to fhew that mere are
not fufficient grounds to hold the D-fenudants to bail, have- produced
evidence of an original condemiatioh of the Bug and' her cargo as
lawful prize in the maritime court of _New Hamjphire, on the 16th
day of December 1777, agreeably to an Art oi Atembly of that
State;. and aifo a fiminar condemnation in a. S-tperior C .urt oijudicature of that State, on an appeal iron that maritime Court, with
an order for fale and -dtt'ibuuO.i o the prop-rty among the captors, and an a,..ual ftle aid diltribution accordingly. Aid tfiey
urge, thpt the fubfequent reverfal of th ofe fentences, five or fix years
afterwards, by the commitfioners of Congrefs app'ainted for hearingappeals in cafes of prize, is null and void, and mfuificient to revelt
the property in the claimants, Culhgrefs having ha.1 no power, before the Articles of Confederation, to receive appeals ia cafe of
prize. They alfo urge that a prior a&ion has been brought by the
prefent Plaintiffs agaiait the D; endauts in the State of j /zhjufits,
for the fame caufe; and that on the trial of that aaii on, the' judges
there determined, that the decree of reverfal thould not be given in
evidence to the jury; and that the Plaintiffs,. in order to avoid a
verdi& aginft them, had prayed and obtained leave to difcontinue
that a&ion. And that, therefore, the prelknt ation is vexatious,
and the Defendants fhould not be held to bail.
A third reafoli is alfo urged by the Defentants counfel, that this
being originally a caufe of prize, it is exclutively of Atmiralty jurifdidion; and that no a~fion will lie at common law, eithef for the
original taking, or any of the confequences.
The court have heard, and deliberately confidered, the feveral argurfients on thefe points, delivered by learned coun fel on both ides.
Thefirit point involves in it the fovereigai rights of the feoarate
States on the one hanid, aid the fupreme power of the United
States in Congrefs affembled on the other; and is, indeed, a momentous quefltion; which, howeveri we fhall thew in the eecifion
of the third point, to be unneceffary, ald, I tihaps, improper for us
to decide upor.
On the fecond point, it is proper -oJeclare, that we think ourfelves indifpenfahly bound to give full faith o.nd credit to the leil
a6ts of our Sifter States ; and that the judgm'nents given in their
Col rts
EC 2

1787.
I.-.---

220

:787.
-

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

courts will have their full effe& here. But it is not every difcontinuance that will difable a PlIintiff to hold a D lendant to bail in
a fecond adion; that will depend upon the circumf~ances of vexatior attending the cafe ; which we, likewife, think it unneceffary
to difcufs, in the prefent cafe, as we are clear and unanimous upon
the laft point.
The whole learning upon this fubjed is colleded together and
drawn to. a point, in the famous cafe of Le Caux v. Eden, reported
in DOuglas 572. By this cafe, and the cafes cited by the judges in
fupport of their opinion, it appear clearly ;-ilt, that the queftion
of prize, or no prize, is folely and exclufively of Admiralty jurifdiffon, and not triable at common law. - 2dly, That not only the
original taking, but all the confequences, are folely appropriated to
the AemiraIty dly, That, although there may have beer'a definitive
fentence of acquitthl in the Admiralty, and thatfentne conclufive on
the queftion, yet for any matter happening confequential -to the
taking-asprize, no fuit will lie at common law ; and that in all
thqfe conlequential cafes, notwiihftanding the fentence of acquittal, the quetfion of prize or no prize muft Rill arife, and the fentence is evidence of a thing which the common law cannot enquire
into.
The application of thefe cafes to the caufe before us, is evident
and obvious.
'he original taking of the Sufanna and her cargo,
was by a commiflioned privateer as prize; the carrying her into
port,' the procuring her condemnation in the maritime court of New-iam pfhire, And the fale and diftribution by order of that court, were
all confequences of this taking asprize. And, notwithiftanding the
fentence ot reverfal and -acquittal, the queftion of prize or no prize
will ffill occur.
The anfwergiven by the Plaintiff's counfel to the cafes cited in.Douglas, is, that in all thofe cafes-the lads on which the adi'ons
were founided, happeixed prevous to the decifi6n ot the queflion of
prize; butthat in t,.efi adions the fads which fupport them occurred
after the final fentence of acquittal, when the caule was at reff, and
itvwas no longer neceffary to examine the queflion of prize ; which
fizas were, that after the final fentence of reverfal the Deiendantswere requefted and refufed to reftore the property agreeably to the'
fentence, and converted it to their own ufe, which is the ground of
the adion. The diftindfion itfelf does not appnar iom the cafes,
to be. well fouided, as it is not the time when the facets happened,
but the conneclion they havc v.ith the original capture, arid their
being the neceflary coi.fLquences of the capture, that gives the exclufive jurifdi6lion te the Admiralty. ]ii the cafe oi Aid!y v. Lg
,kfeld in 2 Lev. 25, there had been a previous condemnation of the
ihip and goods as prize in Scolland, and two fublfquent fales on
land, one in Sctland and the other in Engiand, 'under which laft
Iale £n'e of the parties claimed ; yet the court fay that this does not
alter the Cafe, being matters confequential upon the oiiginal taking,
and

COURT of COMMON PLEAS of Philadelphia County.

221

And, it is obfervable, that in this very
Saund.,259, the court fay that the validity
of tre fentence in the Admiralty court in Scotland was determijnable
by the law of the Admiralty of England, and not by the common law.
]i, however, the dittin-ction made by the Plaintiff's counfel was even
admitted to be -,velt founded, do the fa&s'on which thefe a6lionsmutt be fupported, appear to be fubfequent to the final acquittal ?
It is true, there was a demand and refufal fubfequent to that decree,
but a demand and refufal is only evidence of a converfion, and not
the converfion itfelf. Are we to fhut'our eyes againit the other evidence, and not fee when the converfion was made? It appears to have
*originated on the taking the veffel as prize on the high feas, and it was
compleated on the fale and diftribution of the money in purfuance
of the decree of the Superior Court of New-Hamphire, in confequence of the taking as prize :-All this long before the reverfal of
the decree.
What is this, then, but an a&ion to enforce by our authority,
the decree of the Court of Appeals? _Axe we authorized to enforce
that decree? Is there any cale whatever which thews that an aetion
will lie at common law, to carry into execution the decree of aprize
court of Admiralty r Thi jurifdi&ions of the two courts are intirely feparate, and they judge by different laws. It is true, that ih
fame cafes'the courts ot common law and the Injlance Court of Ad,miralty, have concurrent jurifdi&ions, as in fuits for feamen's wages;
but in no cafe whatever have the Prize Courts of Admiralty and the
common law courts a concurrent jurifdition.
and dpendant upon it.

cafe, as it is reported in

2

I have faid before that-the queftion of prize would ftill occur in
this a&ion ; tfie ultimate faft difputed, is, whether the veffl and
cargo were prize or not: the evidence to fupport or contradi& this
fa& arifeg, on one fide, from'the fentences of tne maritime courts
ot Nw-Hamp,'hir.; on the other from the fentence of the court of
nppedls of Congrefs. Th; validity of the latter fentence is'difputed;
V we fay it is valid, we in effe& fay fhe is no prize, it otherwife, we
fayihe was a prize. We have clearly no authority to fay either one
or the-other. By the cafe in Saunders, we cannot determine- upon
the validity of the fentence itfelt ; and if we could, yet it is, as
jufhce Buller obferves in Louglds, evidence of a thing which a common law court has no right to enquire into.
Upon the Whole, therefore, as the queftion to be tried in this
a6ion, if not direfly'a queftion of prize, is yet a queftion arifing
upon the immediate and neceff'ry confequences of the vefltl's being
taken asprize, which is folely and exclufively of Admiralty jurifdittion ; and as it is an afion to carry into execution the fentence
6t the court of appeals, which we have no authority to do (that
being the proper-judicature 'to carry int 6 effe&" its own "fentences)
Vve think the prefent Afion will not lie, and adjudge that the attachments be difflolved.
EAsTwICK

i787.
..

