CASEs ruled and adjudg:d in the

. . 1at one report is made in Iwo aaions, feverally referred.
2. That the Referees filed a fupplementary report without the
knowledge of.the Defendant, at- the inftance of the Plaintiffs.
3. That the firft report is on condition, and therefoi-e the Referees
have mnifiaken a plainpoint of law; the fecond report being made
after'their authority had expired.
4. That the promiffoiy notes for which the a&ions wer, brought,
are not in1 the Pl.aintiffs' hands, but affigned for a valuable confideration," and, therefore, there is no legal caufe of a&ion.
The exceptions being oppofed byFJher.forthe Plaintiffs, and fupported by .ngerfol and Dallas for the Delendant; THEC CouRTfeemed clearly of opinion, that thfirfl report could not be maintainid ; that the fupplementary report-was irregular ; anrd that the rule
of reference to report to ntxt term, did not authorife the i.Tuing executions upon the -report into office duriig the vacation (particularly
without -notice to the Defendant although a term had intervened between the entering of the rule, and the appointment of the Referees.
No-opinion was given on the other points, but the execution and
-report were, for the above reafons, fet afide, and the a&iop.s, by
confent,. referred de nova.

STARRETT'S

Cafe.

WTiLRREr, while attending the Court as a fuitor. was
]ENRY
taken by a Ca. Sa. and Chambers moved that he might be difcharged from the arreft, citing 4 Jac. 42,I. 3 BL. C. 289. 2Stra.
io94. i Barn. 17.
"earesand G. Smith oppofed the motion, and contended, that there
wasa.diLinfion between an arreft on mefne, and onjud;cial,procefs;
for, though, in the former cafe, fhe Court would difcharge a fuitor,
witnefs, &c, from an arreft made during an attcndance upon them,
yet, in the latter, they would not, becaufe the party.would afterSwards b. reinedilefs, Iood's Iqfl. 503. 6oo. 4 Cm -Dig 475.
ii M'd.- 34. 2 2. There-is, likewife, another reafon: .the Gapias on mine procef" might be taken out merely on a luggeftion; bWi:
injudicial.procefs, ih 4ebtis certain, and fixed by. the judgment of
the Cort.
O'ambersand Tiartey, in reply. The prote&ion of fiuitors &c. is
eflablilhed to promote an equal adminiffration of jutfice, and to prevent theopp -effion ofa rich and powerful mian, overa poor one who
-is folicitingjufiice. There ii no cxprefs authority that extends the
do~rine to~tohis cafe- but in 4 Cum.. 575. tit. P riv. it is laid down,
that an execution fhall not be difcharged, yet, if the party who procured it, will not cdnfentto a difcharge, he thall hirinlf be committed. The books cited in Comyns, Crompton, and .JJvcd's f. are of
little authority 5•

AM'K 9A X

UXtMEM

-

357

Coukr of PennJy'lvania.;

YM'KEAN, Ch;f .7uftite.-J'ood is a writei of great authority,
Xnd frequently' cited with refpe&t in Jf'omi nfer- Hall. In the cafe
before us, the execution has regularly itii ed, upon a judgment reguIakly obtained; and although we thould certainly prote& fuitors,
witneffes, and jurors, from an arreft on mrjne prccefs, during their.
attendance upon the Court, and for a reafonabletime in coming and
going, yet no cafe has been fhewn, -Abich will jufifjy our interferenoe to difcharge a ran taken in execution on the ground offuich a
lToteion. It is, indeed, the privilege of the Court that is infrinad ;'and, it is difcretionary, to grant it on fome occafions, and to
refufe it up.on others.
.
BY THE'COURT :-The prifoner muff be remandcd..
S

RiP

UpUBLICA

verfus

'SPARHAWX.

T

HIS was an appeal from the CsntptrjLler General's decifioN'
on the trial of which, by confent of the .dlorney Geuieial, 8parwas confidered -as Plaintiff.
hawk
I There was a verdict and judgment nifi for the Commonwealth,
when Ingerfol obtained a rule to fhew caufe why a n~w trial lhould
.iot be granted.
The cafe was this :-Congrefs, perceiving that it was the intention
of the Briti/h army to pol&l I themfelves or Philadelphia, aud being
informed that contiderable depofits of pro'ifiuns &c. weret made in
that city, entered into'a refolution on the i ith.of April, 1777, that
" a Committee fhould'be appointed to examine into the truth, of
their information;. and, if it was found true, to take effectnal"menaflires, in.conjun&ion v'ith the. Pennvflvania Board of War, to preVent fuch provilions.from falling into the hants of the enemry,"
On the r 3 th 6f the fame month, the J'ennfyhlania Board of War,
in aid-of this refolution, addreffed a circular letter to a number of
citiieris in each ward of the city, requeIfing the'ti " to obtain from
wery family a return of the provifions &c. theil iii polreffion, and
the number of perfons that compofed "thefamilies refpc&ively, in order that proper meanures night -be purfued for renovi g anyinneceffary quantity of fipplies to a place of fecurity." At the fame time, it
was mentioned, that "- this proceedingwas not intendedt to alter or
diveft the property in tae articles removed. but, on tile contrary,that the fame thould be -t all times liable t', the brder of the refpcctive bwners, providedthey Were not expolid to be taken by the eniemy-. .
That no precaution might -be omitted upon this (occafron, the
Pennfy[vani2 Board of War, on the fuccecding day, deirt'd General
&fuyler to pre"Vent the introdution.of further hipplics, and to a'dopt
the moft eft&ual means for preventing the departure of the wtggn
which were then in the city, and for p ocuring as mz;:y moie as

would
Determined at S-utnury. N. P. on tfix:th of
Rusu.
'Caizr Jus-rce, and Mr. yf,'.j

r 7S*'S-beforg tkh

