COURT of COMMON PLEAS of Philadelphia (,ounty.

295

*Ingurfollfaid, that, if the Court were of opinion, that he was too
late, he fhould not certainly prefs the quefion ; but wave his motion ; which was accordingly done.
MORGAN

verfus

MORGAN

ECKART

VcrJUs

et al

BOWER.

O-'%N

a rule to fhiew caufe, why the arrefis in thefe a&ions,,1hould
%--not be Li't aide, it appeared, that Eckart, being the Lieutenant
of ~unty,
came to Philadelphiain order to obtain from the
Execi,tive Council the commillions of fome Officers of-the .ilitia
within his department; that Bower, being one of the Sbiriffs elte1 of
the fame county, came for the purpofe of folicitimg his commillion,
and giving the ufual fecurity; and thatwhile here 1or thefe refac&ive
purpofes, they were both arrefted at the fuit of the Plaintiff.
Ti"ghiman, in ftipport of the rule, contended, that the Defendants
wcre privileged from arreft, on accoupi of the public nature of the
bufinefs which brought them to Philadelphia; and ftated, as the great
principle upon which privilege and protecion are founded, that the
rights and intereft of the Commonwealth muft, in many cafes, be preferred to thofe of individuals Vin. tlit. Piv. 84. pl x. He then
claired the cafes of privilege under two general pofitions :-ijt, That
where by law it is a man's duty to attend at a particular place, or
Court, he Ihall be rued there only; and no one lhall be compelled
to undertake any thing inconfiflent with fuch duty, or with his profeflion, in particular cafes. in. tit. Priv. 509. pl. I. 6Cro. Car. 585.
Sir rX'. 7ones 4-62. Stra. 1107. 3 Leon. 149. ill. tit. Priv. 513.
pl. 8. Barn. Notes. 200. 378.-And, 2dly, That where a man is under a ldgal obligation to attend, or where lie goes to demand juffice,
he fliall not be arrefted at all.'Yin. tit. Priv. 515. pl. 6. Coln. 446.
i Brown. 15. 2 Black. Rep. 1113. 1 iltk, 54. Stra. 1094. V,:. tii.
Priv. 52.pl. 18. ibid, 514-P. 12.13. ibid. 515. pl. 6.
In the prefent inlances, he urged, that it was incumbent upon.
the Sheriff to wait on the Executive Council, as the law required him
to give luch fecurity, as they fliould approve: And, with refpe&to
the Lieutenant of the county, he alledged, if the Court now doubted, they would be fatisfied upon enquiry, that he, likewife was in
the profecution of his official duty on the above mentioned occafion.
He then adverted to the impolicy of increaling the jealoufy, that
feemed.to fibfill already too much, between the city and the 'remote
parts of the State ; but this, he predicled as an inevitable and ruinotis confequence, if, whenever a countryman came hither upon
public bufinefs, he was liable to be arrefted and detained. The
city would oon be likened to the Lion's den, towards which innumerable traas of feet might be traced, fed nulla .z'ej/igia retoifum.
Sergcant

i788.

296
:783.
_a...
..

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

Sergeant and .7. B. M'IKean, for the Plaintiff flated, that the cafes
of privilege it -Enilatd,were limitted to an attendance upon Parliament, or upon Courts, as a party, juror, witnefs, or officer;
and that all the authorities which had been cited for the Defendants,
were iully comprehended within thefe bounds. They admitted
th it reafonable privilege had, likewif,, been allowed in Pennfylvania ;
but denied that, in either country, the doarine had been extended
to the obje& of the prefent rule. For, they infifted. that the Sheriff's
attendance upon the Executive Council, was voluntary, in order to
folicit an appointment, which, notwithflanding his being on the return, the Council might, at pleafire, grant, or refufe. Neither
was he bound to give fecurity 'till he was appointed; and, even.
then, it was not necefTary to be given in the city of Philadelpha.Vith refpe& to the Lieutenant of the county,' nothing. they faid,
could be more evident, thani that nis viiit to Philadelphiawas an af
of fipererogation, to perform what no law required him to do, and
wh[t might as 'well have been performed through the agency of a
Poi-r'ider.
If. indeed, the attendance of the Sheri, or of the Lieutenant of
the county had been req!iircd by the Executive Council; or, if they
hai been brought before that Board by any legal procefs; they might
then have claimed the advantage of the general rule of privilege.
But thzre can be no pretence in reafon, or law, to exempt from an
arreff, either a man, who voluntarily comes to folicit an offi-e ; or
one, who undertakes a journey merely to oblige his neighbours by
bringing them their commiffions.
At an adjourned fittings, held on the 6th of Septerer, TH PI Edelivered the clear, and uninimous opinion ^airm COURT,
that the Defendants were not prote&ed fIrom arreas, for any caufo
that had b-een fhewn. He obferved, that they had not been requircd by the Executive Council to attend them, but evidently came
to Pbhiladelphiaon their.own private bufinefs; and that it was the
duty of the Court to be careful not to extend the do&rine of privilege to the injury of honefi creditors.
The rule difcharged.
SIDENT

BOLTON

Ve'fus

MARTIN.

T I-TE Defendant was one of the members from Bedlord county,
in the State. convention, which affembled at Philadelphia,to take
into confideration the adoption, or reje6tion, of the conflitution propofed for the Governmeht of the UnitedStates, by the Fcederal Convention on the 17 th of Septenher 1787. -During his attendance upon
this duty, he was ferved with. a Sumnim'ons at the fuit of the Plaintiff;
and Sergeant obtained a rule to fhew caufe, why the Procafs fhould
not

