COMMON PLEAS,

Philaciekia

County :

March Term, 1788.

POULTNEY

et al. verfus Ross.

A

N eal being entered from the judgment of Ifaac Howell, EJ.L quire, one of the Juffices of the city of Philadelphia, &c. on
the trial' of the caufe, it appeared, that the Defendant went to the
ftore of the Plaintiffs, and bought fome articles, for which he afterwards paid; that, at the fame time, he carried with him one Hawke,
a joiner, who complained that he was frequently diftrefl d in -his
trade, for want of a fmall credit; whereupon the Defendant told the
Plaintiffs, that he did not think they would fuffer by truffing him for
two or three dollars, as he-was an induftrious and honeft man, and
that he (the Defendant) would fee the money paid; that the Plaintiffs
accordingly delivered to Hawhe fundry articles at different times
proper for his trade, as a carpenter and'joiner, amounting to C 5
and upwards ; that at the diftance of 9 months, having enquired after Hawke and found he had eloped, they fen- an account for thofe
articles to the Defendant, who was chargedin their Shop ho4.(which
Poultney, one of the Plainti/fi, proved to he theirhook of orio;alentries)
as the abfolutt purchafer; and that before the Juffice, from whofe
judg,ment the appeal was made, the Defen dant, though he infifted
that all the articles were not for his ufe, acknowledged the receipt of
fI .eof them.
Upon there facs the queftion arofe, whether the entry in the
Pl.intlffis flop.book, attefted by one of them, upon folemn affirmation was flifficient, in thiscafe, to charge the Defendant? And the
Prideni delivered the following chargc to the Jvry.
SHI PPEN,

CoURT OP'COMMON PLEAS of Ph;ladelphia County.

%39

SIvpPN, Prident:-As the law that has 'prevailed upon this 1758.
fubje&, is adapted to the 'peculiar fituation of the cotintry, it will 1..
naturally differ from the law which is eflablifhed in other places,
under different circumftances. Thus, though in England, the fhopbook of a tradefman is not evidence of a debt, without the afliftant
oath of the clerk who madethe entry; yet here, from the neceffity of
the cafe, as bufinefs is often carried on by the principal, and many
of our tradefmen do not keep clerks, the book, proved by the oath of
the Plaintiff himfelf, has always been admitted. The pra&ice, in
this refpe&, how-ever, has Deen confined to charge ths original
debtor, to whom the goods were fold ; for, the neceffity of the cafe
only required, thatthe Plaintiffs oath fhould be allowed to prove the
atual delivery; aknd it would be highly dangerous, if the evidence
wereextended to eflablifh the affumption of a third perfon to pay the
debt.
It is the duty of the Jury, the .fore, to confider, whether the Dcfendant, on the prefent occafion, is the originaldebtor, ot merely a
perfon affumink to pay the debt of another. If, indeed, it appears,
that he has fent a fervant, or tradefman, for .thefe goods, on his own
account, he is clearly liable; for, when they come to his ufe, that
makes him the original debtor.- But, if I go to a lhol with a joiner,
and fay to the mafter, I will fee you paid for the articles with which
you truft this man ;" here, though I am liable upon proof of this
undertaking, yet it is not in the chara&er of the original debtor, for
the joiner who received the goods is the original debtor; but it is on
account of what the law terms my collateral promife ; .which carnot be proved by the teftimony of the party interefted, but, may by
a note in writing,, by fome indifferent witnefs to the tranf'a&ion.
In the cafe before us, the evidence of the Juftice (Mr. Howef) is
not certain as to the circumfiances; for, the goods were delivered in
fmall parcels, from time to time ; they were fuch as fuited the joiner's bufinefs; and, even from "tle Plaintiff's own. account, they
were applied to his ufe, though the Defendant wag confidered to be
liable for the payment. Whether thefe fats, therefore, and the
Defendant's previous pur.chafe at the Plaintiff's flore, will account
for the acknowledgement of having received a part, the Jury muft
determine. But it they are of opinion, that the Defendant has only
affumed to pay the debt of another perfon, the Plaintiffs cannot be
witneffes in the caufe, and, confequently, there is no proof of the
affumption. On the eontrary, if they think the Defendant is the original debtor, the Plaintiffs are witneffes to prove the entry in their
book, and they are entitled to.recover the amount of their demand.
VERDICT for the Defendant.

BROWN

verfus

SUTTEt.

HIPPEN, Prfitdent, faid, in this cafe, that the court would
never open a regular Jidgment, to let in a plea of the fjatute of
hrnitatio.ns,
NIE w

A

