312

t788.

Ctses ruled and adjudgcd in the

to Dogherty; and this fum of r4oo. is credited to him in the accounts of the eflate kept by the latter.
With refpe& to thefecond and thirdpoints, it muff be obferved,
that 'the Courts of Chancery make it a general- rule, that he who
receives money fih0 uld be anfwerable for it; and, therefore, if one
Executor becomes infolvent, or bankrupt, the other fhall not be
charged. There is a difference, however, between Legatees and
Creditors ; the iorier being appointed, as wellps.the Executor, by
virtue of the Teftator's-'will; and zonfequently cannot impofe the
fame refponfibility as the latter. The cafe in I P. JXms. 244. is the
only one in point ; but on that authority, and the juftice of the matter itfelf, under all its Circumffances, we are of opinion that, although
Brown would be chargeable if there were creditors, and a deficiency of affets to fatisfy them; yet, that he is not anfwerable to the
Legatees.
The £4oo. muff therefore be dedu&ed from the account, with
the nine years intereff which is charged upon .it. As to the reff, we
think Brown ought to be well fatisfied to pay the intereft; particularlv as it is not charged from theyear 1776 to the year 1781.
The decifion of the Orphan's Court was accordingly affirmed;
deducting £4oo, and nine years intereff, from the account.

SHEWELL

T

verfus

WYcoFF.

HERE was a report in this caufe, and at the diffance of a
month, after Judgment nifi had been entered, the Defendant
filed reafons" in exception to the report.
But, MY THE COURT :-We muff not fport With things of fo folemn a nature as Reports"of Referrees, and Verdi&s of a Jury. The
exceptions are much too late. The rule is, that unlefs they are
filed within four days, the Judgment ni/i becomes abfolute.
Sergiant for the Plaintiff-Bradordand Ingerfoll for the Defendant.

ZANE'S Exors. verfus COWPERTHWAITEi Sheriff.

'i'h-IIS taufe had been argued in the- laffTerm.by Lewis and In.Lgrfoil for thi Plaintiff, and Raw/le nd Bowie for the Defendant; and now the CHPEeF JUSTICE ftated the queftion, and
delivered the opinion of the Court, in the following manner:
M'KiAN, Chief 7fl;ce.-In this cafe the Executors of Zane had
iffued a Fieri fa.ias againff Jofeph Mharton, to which the prefent
Sheriff made return, that he had levied to the value ofthe Plaintiff's
demand, on fpecific goods, enunerated in a certain fchedule. Ii
confecquence of this return, a D;Ilringas, dire&ed to the Coroner
was

