HIGH COURT of ERRORS and
APPEALS, of Pennfylvania.

September Seffions, 1784.

TALBOT qui tam, &c. verfus Ihe COMMANDEIRS

and OwN4ERs of three Brigs.*
T'I HIS was an appeal from a decree in the Admiraly on the folJk lowing cafe :w--Silas Talot, commander of the armed floop
irgo, belonging to, and in the fervice of there States, duly commiffirned, failed from Nw-Landon, in the State of Conndgicut, the
twenty-ninth of..agufl; 1779, on a cruife. On the ftth of Spfembtr, ifter an engaement of three hburs, he took as prize upon
the High Seas, an armed Letter of Marque veffel, called the Belfry,
of-two hundred tons burthen, with a valuable cargo, belonging to
fubje&s of Great-Brliain,not being inhabitants of Bermuda, and
bound for New-rork, then in pofFeffion of the Brit_/h naval and land
forces. He took the commander and eleven of the people Dut of
the prize, leaving three in-her, and put on board a Prize-mafter
and eleven other hands, with inftrufions to proceed to Nw-Lonaon.
The firing was heard, and the engagement for more than an hour
feen by perfons on board three Letter of Marque Brigs that had
lately failed from. Philadelphia. During the. engaement the.Bet ey
was perceived from the three' Brigs, bearing towards them. Her
furrender was alfo feen from on board-them. The prize-mailer in
obedience to his inftru&ions, proceeded on his voyage in company
with the irgo for New-London. .3oine time after the "three Brigs
were
*'For the decree in the dmifral in this cafe, :nd the evidenca upon which it
'was principally founded, I beg leave -o refer the Reader to a (mall volume of Reports of Cafe& in the Admiralty of Pennfrleana, publilbed 1,y ihe Honorable
Fra~rd, Hotlixfox, .Efxinr, the Judge of that Court; and printod by BDsfov in P i~
la4§5Ma. In this book will. Jikewife, be fousad ftvcral iniportant decifols rpon
I a "tlir. s of Hylhz~auha.

96

CAIS ruled and adjudged in the

174. *ere dlcernmed from on board ffie Betfi.
Towards evening they
e-)enacied tife Argo and B;ffy. The next day, early in the morning)
the prize being in tow of the Argo, the three Brigs were feen from
on board the Prize and the Argo, chafing them. The Brigs approached faKt under Brhib colours. Captain 2-albot findin~g it impradicable Tor the prize to efcpe, with a trumpet hail d her, dirediug the prizeziiafl r to throw off the r'ope, and lye tob with the
rize, until the three Brigs hould come up with her,- aiding, that
e with "tfh
Argo would ron-a little to feewrd and lye 'too alfo-and that if tMe brigs i1hould p~ova to be A&erican, the prize-mailer
fhould endea; our to obtain permifion 'for the prize to come down
by herfelf and inform hint of the brigs beiihg friends, In a fhort
time the brigscaihe up, and from oue or two of them ind-r Briih
colours, the Betfey was fired at twice, fhe then bearing Britih co]ours reverfed, according to the caftoin of przes, and being in the
latitude of 39 degrees 4. minutes, and the lonigitude of 71 degrees
24.minutes. Wheh firfI hailed; the people on board the Bffey anfwered, fhe was from llionfferrat. Perfoiis from two of the brigs,
one of which had fired at the Bolfry, boarded her. Among thefe
w-.s V. D. from the Jaft mentioned brig The commander ot
this. brig was informed by the prize-mafter on board the Betjey, that
"he was a prize to the Argo, commanded by Captain Talbot; that
the veiel then in fight.was the- Argo ; that he mas put on board the
"Be/fry-as prize matter by Captain Talbit; he Ihewed him his
writzen inarudions as fuch ; but, raid the Bel~fy had been taken
three days before. W. D. -from on board the -.Belfy. tbld the faid
commander, that the prize-mailer denied having fe-en the brigs the
day befor.e, or thathe was then captured ; biit fi om every circumfiance, and from- the report of one of her Engl!A failors, he was
convinced, flie. was the fame velrel feen eng'ged the day before.
On board the brig, to the comm-.nder of which this information
ws given, were a boatfwain and fail-maker, Who had been taken
by.Captain Talbot about -ten days betore in a veffel- from London,
and fent by.him prifoners t6 Philadelphia, and fh*pped there. -One
of the-perfons put into the Befry by Captain Ta/b.t, knowing them,
mentioned this fa& in converfation on board the faid* brig, 'to
W_ D. The perfon thus put on board by-Captain Talb~t alfb faid,"
that the Belfry had been taken three'days before. The papers on
board the Befy were examined by V. D. in behalf of the three
brigs, and the number of names fpecified in the Engli/h papers, was
found toceorrefpond with the nutber of perfons then on board.
From thefe papers it appeared; that fhe was a Britihveffel bound
trom. Monierrat to New-York. W. D. made feveral other examinations on board the Belfey on behalf of the three brigs, -and. in
the courfe of thm-was inforned by a feamanwho belonged to her
while poffeffed by the Brihyh, that fle was taken the day before.
This f£ilor alfo faid, he failed from Monlerrat. Before W. D.
leIt-Philadelphiha, he had heard in the coffee-houfe there, a few days'
before he failkd, that the rgo a: New-En,-land privateer had takea
-. the
-

JIhGU COUR-f of.ElRRS ania APPEALS of Pennfylvania.

97

th& Dublia utte, -fitte orft faullof xiien of war's men. While 173..
thefe examinations were'made, the two other brigs chafed
the' drgo, under all, fail, upon which Captain Talbot, concluding
they muff have been Briih-cruifers, made fail before the wind,
and roon left them. The commanders of - the three brigs took. the
prize-.ifter and. hands out -of tle Belrty, who were -carried to
ain, except one or two of the leaft confiderable, arid alfo took
out of her tvp cannon, fmall arms, powder, balli two coils of
cordage, and fome other articles. They then put a erfon on board
her as prize;maIler, and men from each of the brigs, with written
-orders,- dated the 7 th of September 1779, and figned by them all;
-4ire&fing him to 1"take charge of'her as prize to the bigs dciliex,
Patty and Hiernkz? -carry her into Delaware, Chefap k, Egg-I-ar,
Iour or Boflon, -butto 'get her if poflible intb Dc/aware, Ohefapeah,
or Egg-Harhour, for fear of the floop Argo's falling in with hei,
begging him to fland to the fouthward that niglit, and firiVe hi-'d
fQr Philadeiphi." "Thefe orders- were figned on- boird the birg,
-thecommander *ofwhich had dire&ed the examinationi befor6 mentioned on board the Belry. The Belfry failed 6ff clore by thdywind
to the fouthward, Was ]afterwards retakdn, carried into Nem.Jork,
-adreftored to the former owners. On the z 7 th of September, x779,
Cbngrefs-refolved, "that in -confidergiren of thedif-inguifed merit

,of Cbloriel-Siler Talbot, a commifflon of Captixi in the navy be

given him, and that the mirine committee be dire&ed to provide a
prot effel for him As foon as poffible."
On thefit# of March,
S11780,. Congrefs refolved, -" that any intereft The United States-may
have in' the capture of the Betfey by thb Poop Argo; Captain S'lMks
Talbot, be relinulhihed to the faid Captain, and the officers, feamen,
-and marines, t. der-his command at the time of the captura."
On the 13 th of March, 1789, Captain ralbot, quitam, &c. filed his

bilt in the Court of Admiralty for fhis State, againft the threeri,

-

their owners and commanders. Procefs iftred accordingly.- On"
the 2"th the owners came feverally before the Court, and en'tereai
into flipilations for the performance of the decree. Augufl 29th,
a Plea to the jurifdi&ion filed, "'for that in'cafes of damages to be
affehed'or recovered to make -fatisfa&ion for a wrong or trefp-afs. t.)
perfon Or property, the profecutions ought to be-in Courts of Common Law.," Replication, " that the caufe df a&on was -within
the juAfdi.-ion of the Admiralty." Plea difmiffed, Refpondeant
Oufler awarde4, and plea of Not Guilty filed. Wy x,
9 th, 1788,
decree, that the Libellants have and recover of .the Refpondents
£C 2,791 5. o. with Coils, and on, the 22d the Refpondents appeal.
The caufe was ably argued on -feveral days, -and now, at -'an adjourned fefflons, held the i4th of Yanua'y1785, the PRESIDENT
delivered the refolution of.-the Court.
DIcKENsoN PRESI.DNT :-There art two principal. quiltions
Inoncerning jitrifd1lion in thi~caufe.
N

Ff.

9a
1784.

CAsEs ruled

and adjudged in the

Frft. WVIhether the Court of Admiralty for this State had jurif
diction ?
Second. Whether this Court hasjurifdiedon!
The firfi has been fub-divided into thefefeondary queflions:
Firft. Could the Court of Admiralty for this State take cognizance as an hflance Court, fuppofing this caure not to be a caufe of
Prize .P
Second. Did that Court take cognizance as a Prize Court ?
It is acknowledged by the Council for the Appellants, that if this
is not a caufe of Prize, the Court of Admiralty might take cognizance as an Inflance Court, it being now fettled that damages may.
be affeffed in the Admiralty-if it was not for an obje&ion arifing
from the A& of Affembly forregulatinag and eftablifhing Admiralty
jurifdi6ion in this State. By that Ai the Judge of the Admiralty
uhall "'have cognizance of all controverfies, fuits, and pleas of macognizale at the ronnon law, 'and thereupon
ritime jurifdiffion, n.ot
fhall decree as the maritime law, the law of nations, and the laws
O~f this Commonwealth fhall require." The cbjeafion made, is,
that the prefent controverfy is cognizabe aotomm.on low.
It is manifeft from this Mt, that in framig it,. the legiflature
took ito confideration the Engilb fiatutes relating to things done
upon the High feas, 'and particularly the flatuies of the 33t of
ch. g, and 5, and the 2d of Hpry the jsurth,
.Rchard.the ficond,
ch. xi. "by hiclr, "Admirals and their deputies are prohibited
from medling with any thing done within the realm of E gland,but
only with things done upon the fees, according to that which hath
been duly ufed in the time of Edward he third," and it is "declared, that the Court of 'the Admiral -bath no manner of conufance, power, or jurifdilion of any contra&, plea or quarrel, or of
any other thing done or -rifing within the bodies of counties except
great. Thips being in the main
in cafes of death or Mayhene done in.
ftream of riversbeneath the * points of the fame."
It is clear even'from thefe cautions againit encroachments of the
Admiralty upon the Courts of common law,- and from the wellknown difpute mentioned in Cookes 4th Infl. that the juril.di&ion of that court, as to "things done upon the fea," is acknowledged to be proper: and, that as to them the jurifdi&ion of the common law'courts was not proper, but only acquired by a Fitlionin fup'
poling them to have been done in the fame county, when they were
not.. 4 Inf. 134 to I43. 3 Black~fl. 43, 1o6 ,&c. ForteJuede Laudibus 67. et in notis. The ommon law courts had a great advantage. They ufed it. There was no fuperior Court to prhibft
them. Th'ey went beyond the "(Credo qua irpvpie fl;" for they
upon certain fuggeflions, widiwut -1leleving" then, but ncw;ing
them to be bothja/fi and imp jJk afbmedjurifdi6ion; and would
nor
a his "Jur;MPin of the Adrniraliy"' r. Ts. vrres frcng
' Drior ZowlA,
ly XIC
coiftrvaien ; and ia New,,' Rrorts. p. 122 .it is iwi.
Pear!ns Pgaio.A tfdis
teaIitL, Iran.ifrrr
it
ti
of the z 5 th f.Ricrhorie
I i.,.sr, tat the flatute
j. ,.rrif ok bridge& for roints that is to fay the Lands. In

HIGH COURT

of

ERRORS

and APr-EALS of Pennfylvania. •99

nat permit evident truth to be regarded. With fuch laboured inge- I784.
nuity has the jurifdi6ion of common law courts, as to acs upon
the High Seas, been fuftained, to the great mortification of Sir
Thonas Rydye and other learned Civilians, * the former, with much
commendation from. the reft, very gravely undertaking to prove,
that a ihip could not fail in Cheapfid in the city of Londont the
place ufually afilgned in fuggeflions, -as the fcene of naval tranfaaions.
Yet, notwithflanding thefe flatutes, mariners have in England
been allowed to fue for wages in the Admiralty, upon contra s
niade there within the body of a county, " againft the f'atute rxprefjly," as was held by the Judges, when that great man, Lord
Chief Juaice Hdt, urefided in the: King's Bench. Salk 33. The
reafous were, that thte remedy was enjier, becaufe they could join
in-the fuit, and helter, becaufe'the ihip would be anfwerable.
In the prefent cafe, the owners, malers 'and failors of the three
brigs could not be jointly fued at common law. If they could not,
what a multiplicity of afions touft be brought. Suppofing the
owners, commander and -men of the drgo could join in a fuit at.
common law, one of them might deftroy the a'.ion by a *.releafe.
The vellels are not liable in the fame manner at common law, as
they. are in a Court of Admiralty.
If the Court of Admiralty for this State cannot take cognizance
of things vihich courts of common law may draw into tmeir cognizance, it feems to have been nugatory in the legiflature to have
given that-Court any other jurifdi&ion than in cafes of Prize; tr
even in the cafe of wages, juftly a favourite obje& of Admiralty jurifdi&ion, mariners may fue for them at common law.
It appears to have been the intention of the legiflature, that juftice
fhould be done in the eafieft and beft manner, and that by the words
" not cognizable at common law," hould be underitood, " not
prperly cognizable at common law."
The nextfecondary queftion is fo conne(Red with the definition of
a caufe of Prize, and the treating ofthat fubje& introduces fo many
CONSIDERATIONS CONCERING RELATIVE CIRCUMSTANCES IN
tHESE STATES, AND THE LAW OF NiTxoNs, and thefe again are
fo COMBINED WITH ENOUIRIES AS TO THE JURISDIZTION OF¥
THIS COURT, that they cannot be conveniedtly, at leaft, not en-

fily feparated. We will at prefent therefore- pafs to the lecond
principal queftion, referving till that Ihall be difcuffied, what peculiarly relates to the quellion we now leave.
This State has all the powers of Independent Sovereignty by the
Declaration of Inaqendence on ihe 4 th of Yu, -1776, except what
dated the 9 th of '"uly,
were refigned by the fubfequent C "yderation
1778, but n t completed by final-ratification until thefrfl of Marca,
By
2
178N.
.0 .Fiaio, ell in recerta, ejus. qucd elp poffibile' advtrftks veritarem, pro ,erita,
a jure fa~a affumptio. Doaor Godolbin': viewaf Admiralty Juriftlidzon, p. 84.
-t Z-,
p. 131. G.dp. x05. 3, Blaeoss, 107.
It
La-. 35.

1oo

CASES ruled krid adjudged in the

By the Confederation, Y7.eUnted States are vcfled,' among other
Sthings, with the "fole and exclufive power of eftablifhing rules for
decidingin all cafes what captures on land and water fhall be legal,
.and in what manner Prizes' taken by Land or Naval Forces in the
fervice of fthe United States 1hal be divided or appropriated; of
granting Lettcrs-of Marque awl Repriial in times of peace; appointing Courts fcr-the trial of Piracies and Felonies committed on
the High Seas, and eftablifling Courts for reteiving and determining
finally appeals in-all'cafes of Captures.'Such a Court was eftablifhed by the ftile of - The Court of Appeals. in cafes of Capture2' A&s of Congrefs, Mazy 24, 1780. E3y
the. commifiion, the Judges are "-to -hear, try and determine all
appeals from the Courts of Admiralty in the States refpe&ively, in
cafes of capture, which now are, or hereafter may be duly entered
and nade in any of the faid -States." A&s of Congrefs, "ebruary

I A"

2d, 1780.

It was refolved by Congrefs, MZay 94th, r780, " that all matters
refpe~ling -ppeals in cafe's of capture, now depending before Congrefs pr the Commi"foners of Appeals, confilting of members of
Congrefs, -be refefred to the newly ere&ed Court of Appeals to be,
theri adjudged and determined according to Law."
*It is necefiary to enquire,- What is !be reafonable and legal meaning of the words of the Confderation, and of Congrfs -in their Ie
veral adts relative to this fubji&, for that is the truerneaning.
2-bus we fhall bo*led. into a conftruaion, by which the pofitive
words may be properly and juftly modified.What are the tuundations of fuch a conftrution hei-e ? iVIL'The Council for the Refpondent, are themfelves compelled to qualily the generality of the expreflion, " eftablifhing Courts for re"ceiving and determining finally, appeals in all cafes of aptures,'
by.adding, as rize.. 'Ihe addition is indifpenfably neceflary; for
without it; the words would comprehend every kind of taking, on
land and water, in peace and War. Having been obliged to go fo
far; ih qualifying the extent of the original expreilion, we are
under the fame neceffity of explaining the terms of qualifcaticn them,felves; and certainly We vhave the fime right, foundd on reafon
and law, to-ex'plain them, that we had to introduce then5i. In doing
this we fhall find, Sicnd -That "'captures, as prize, by citizens
of The United.Slates, may be carried intoforeign countries, and be
legally proceeded againif in the Courts of Admiralty there; and
therefore it is to be interred that the Confederation intended only ^fuch
-captures," brought infra praJia'ofThe United States. That this
was the intention thereof, further appears, as Thdly-Ccor.grcfs, in
Ohe commiflion and ref6lution befcre .mevtiored, have f(hewn their
fenfe of the words " Cafes of Captures," Ely tfing them in reference
to appeals " in cafes of captire, which thn were duly cre-red ard
then endepending," as well as to luture cafes but nove w-ere
tered and depending," except -vhere the "' Captures" were brought
n.jra pref'dia or Tke United States, This ienfe of Congrefs, will
-

HXGH COURT of iiaRos and APPEALS of Pennflvaila. zor

appear ftill more plain from their feveral following refolutions, prior
to the Confederation; whiri were in force at the time of the cap-

ture made by Cap taini 7:albat, and which were- the ground-work of
*the ninth fefion of the Cdnfederation, "Th-venher 25, 1775That it be recommended to the feveral Legiflatuxes, as foon as poffible to eie& Courts of Jurrice, or give Jurifdiaion to the Courts
now in he;ng, to determine concerning captures to be made.-If
the capture be made on open fea, the profecution fliall be in the
Court of fuch colony as the captor may find moll conveient ; provided, that nothing in this refolution, fhall be conthued fo as to
enable the captor to remove his prize from any colony competent
to determine concerning the feizure, after he flall have carried the
vellel fo feized, within any harbour of the fome. That in all cafes
an appeal ihall be Allowed to Congrefs, or perions appointed by
them.-That when vefiels are fitted out by private perfons, the captures made, fhall be to the ufe of the owners. D,:emnbr 5. That
in cafes of re-captures, the re-captors ihall retain for falvage, according to the time, &c. lwrch 23, 17756. That all velfels and
goods belonging to inhabitants of Great-Britain, taken on the high
f~as, by armed veifels of private perfons, and commillioned, being
libelled arnd profecuted in any Court erected for trial of maritime
.affairs in an) oi the colonies, lhall be deemed and a~judged to be
lawful prize.-Veffels and goods taken near the fliores of a colony,

by the people, or a detachm-cnt of the army, hall be deemed law ful prize, and condemned in the Court of Admiralty of that colony.-Commiflions to be obtained, and bonds to be given for
obthe Cdmtervance of inftrufions from Congrefs. Inrucions to
mianders of private veffels of var: You flall bring fuch veflre-,
&c. s you hall take, to fome convenient port of the United Coo.iec, ihat proceedings may thereupon be had in die form, bei,';e
tthe Courts
.hichare of Ihall be there appointed to hear and deter-mine 6aufes civil and maritime.-You fhail bring one or two of the
princial perfons of the veflel, as foon as ma# be, to the Judge of
!uch ourt to be examined, and deliver, to the faid Judge all p-apers, &c.-You fhall keep and preferve every ve~iel, &c. by you
taken, until they fhall, by fentence of a Court properly authorized,
be adjudged lawful prizes, not breaking bulk, nor fuffering fuch. a
thing, to be done." F~wu.-By thc maritime law of nation:,
the apprpriationof jurii ion to a particuAr Court of Adnmiraltv,
depends upon the .capture being hra pr"jidia, 3 Backflnc, i cthat law regarding proceedings in ren, the acquittal or condemnation of the fhip or goods. Adfwer" of the Britifb Court, to the
memorial delivered by order of the King of Prt//ia, vp/fit.on des
2t,;.s x. 2z.
Mol. 143. It would be injumous to nations 11 it
w-.s otherwife; for it would caufe competition ofjurifdition:w,.
would occafion fraude.
Fhe ufual method is fimple an. fair.
Z':T-!y-The articles in the treaties of Te Unit/dSt, ls with P'an,
th e Lited iXet.irmai... -u!d Suw-z:e', with relation to prizes, reter to
the cafes of prizes c!Zidued :.:t!e prts of the contr -fing powtrs,
rejying

1784.

10%

C.sns ruled and adjudged in the

1784. relying on cautions againft malverfation.q and contraventions to be
-v * given by commanders of private vetiis of war, rules and regulations for deciding the legality of prizes. and trials in Courts of Admiralty generally. Sixthly-An authority to " eflablif/i rules for
deciding in all cafes, what captures en land or water fhall be legal,
and Courts for receiving and determinin~g .finally, appeals in all
cafes of captures," as prize, brought infra "ra/idiaof The United
Stater, together with the other powers veflted in Congrefs, will fufficiently obviate the mifchiefs apprehended from the irregularities
of citizens of conf.deratedAmetica upon the high feas.
Fore;nersare protecqtd by the confederation, from the irregularities mnentioned ; "for, Congrefs can, " excluively, appoint Courts
for the trial of piracis and 'felonies commnitted on the high fta,"
and can fend out a navwd force to cruize for and feize the offenders.
If the Refpondent wts a .Froncbman, and the decree goes again f1
him, he could not jufly complain ; for he inflinted his fuit in an
American Court. If the appellants were Frinchme), iand the decree goes againft them, they could not juftly complain, for they
took, without battle, by force and violence, from a friend and ally,
that which in their flght, according to their own allegations and
proofs, he had belore fought for and captured, and afterwards voluntari!y put themfelves within the jurifdi6Sion, precin&. and power
of an Aenirican Court. What are the fentiments of learned authors, treating of the law of nations, upon fuch an occafion i
" Qum ab holtibus capiuntur, Jlatim capientium. fiunt; which is to
be underftood, when the battle is over. Poel, and many writers he
refers to, maintain with great ftrength, per folam occupationem dominium pr.edx hoilibus acquiri. One argument ufed to prove it,
is, that the irntant the captor has got poffeion, no friend, fellow.
foldier, or ally, can take it from him, becaufe it would be a violation
of hisproperly." Lord Mansfed, delivering, the refolutions of the
Court, in the cafe of Gofs and another, agiinft ff/ithrrs. In either
cafr, and in the Crongeft light in whizh the affair can be viewed,
it is no more tban a matter to be treated of between their Sovereign and Th.e United States. 2. Shswer, 232. Raym. 473- If it
be fah, that Congrefs hould have a legal mode of making compenfation, by'rediifying improper decifions aghinft foreigners, thereby to prevent difagreeable confequences, it is a do&rine that. cannot be univerfally admitted, for reafons too plain to be infifted on.
If it be confined to a&s on the high feas, prov:*iou has been mate by
:.e onfeaeraton, in the cajes wrere it was judged necefJiry. What
tre Rulers of nations defire and flipulate for in treaties, as to tranfaflions on the high feas, is to fecure their people from being
piundered by the citizens or fubje&s of thofe with whom they
treat. That great point being guarded, and it is guarded here, the
daniger of confequeices f.om cafes that rarely occur, complicated
with a variety of circumftances, and decided upon in open Courts,
are not to be apprehended. When Sovereigns are determined to
*,uarrel, they will never want pretences ; but while they revere the
facred

E1o

COURT of Ezzoas and APPEALS of Pen:nfy1van;a. 103

facred oblig-ations of ju(tice .and humanity, or the precious fentimeats of the good and wife in their own and fxcee Ing ages, they
will not difturb the repofe of the world, by violating the law of
nations, upon flight claims of their fubje&s, or " in re min.ne deai. ' Arffwer of the Briti/b Court. 23.. Vattel, bo. r T, ch. 4, 5, 7Neithei can one of thefe States prey upon another, without violating
the Confederation, for by that, -No veffel of war fhall be kept up
in time of peace by any State, except fuch number only, as hall
be deemed neceffary by The Un'ted States in Con'grefs alrembled,
for the defence of fuch State, or its trade; nor Ilall any State engage in any war without their confent, unlefs invaded by enemies,
or certainly advifed of an intended invafion by Lndians: Nor grant
commiflions to any (hips or veffels of war, nor letters of marque, or
reprifal, except it be after a declaration of war by 2"he UJited States
in Congrefs afflembled, and then only againil the kingdom or ftate,
2nd the ftlbjeas thereof, againft which war has been fo declared, unlefs infefted by pirates, and then only until T2", Uitsed
Stater in Congrefs affembled, thall determine otherwife.
,efides,
" All difputes and differences concerning any caufe wt'atner, are
determinable by Courts to be eftablified under the authority of
Congrefs.'?
Let-us now enquire whether the prefent cafe is fuch a caufe of
prize as is mentioned in the many cafes quoted by the Council for
the Refpondent.
In what circuriflances is any of thofe cnfes like this ? Does it
appear from any of them, that the "PrizeCourt in England, woul c
decidefuch a cafe 'as this is? Does it appeat that the Courts of A'i'minfier-Hall, in any i&ion forfuch a trefpafs as this, would refufeto take cognizance, becaufe the original taking was a capture a's
prize? Does it appear that they would refiufe to take cognitance,
under colour that the fecond taking was a capture asprize? If they
Tliould, ought any fuch decifion to have weight with us in this
cafe? What are the cafes quoted? A juflification by perfons of
ORIGINAL captures made by themhelve,, becaufe made as prize. What
is this cafe? A itffifitation by perfons of t1e;r ronduc7, after a capture made in batile, by others in theirfi.ht, under pretenfion of right,
founded on that circun!flane. If they .fay, the fiecond taking was
an original capture as prize, their aflb'rtion is fdied by their --tvz
prooft, that they Jaw the capture made ly others, h'e day 'before' If
they fay, their proceedings were united with the original capture as
prize, by being infight at the time, let them take care that their
pretinfio of right is well founded, C,mb 367. If it i not, their
proceedings are d!ifl;nR from the origina ci wure, and they are
Plainly Treliailirs, and -. uii abide by the cenfequences. We are
clearly of opinion, that their pretenican of right is uttterlv unfounded,
and that the whole cond,*l of the Comrnan-lk.s t:d Crews of the
Brigs,- was cruel, unprwvcked, wanton, nnd m.da ffdr. In this
very iingular and extroArdiuary cafe, they; hav.' exerted themfelves
to difable the Refpondent from proving" .he capture to be prize;
and

1784.
,

104
1 784 .

CAhF%

iuled and adjudged in the

a nd is the fole queftion afterwards,. to be, prize or not P , What nris there for determining whether the Betfey was prize or not ?'
Is it not evident from the cafe of Combs; againft the Hundred of
Bradey, in Salkeld's Reports,' and of Gofs and another, againit
fhithers, in Burrow, and many other cafes, that an'-a&ion will
lye on pcjff/ion by the plaintiff? and with wh:t peculiar force does
the reafon apEly in this cafe, for the acion'b'ing m-aitained merely
.on the poffehlon? This Court, and the Court of Admiralty are
cempetent, not only to di-e& proceedings, but to afcertain fa&s,
iudge 6f them, and the law upon them, and afTefs damages, as
juntice may require. As to the notion- of mf fake excufing, it-is a
petitio.principii. The m/flake does not appoar-the crime does. So
far from behaing aspartnersin the capture, with the.Argo, the Commanders of the three Brigs, who faw the furrender to her, chafe
.her off; fend the Betj as prize to themfelves only, for a port doflant
from the home of the. captors, and in the eye of the - wir, though in a
part of the fea where .he was particularlyexp2 fed to dangers fronri
the enemy, with orders to avoid certain ports,"forfear of the Argo's
fallinhg in with her. In fa&, it was not a real but a pretended capture, as prize, by them. Are we then bound, in .juch a afe,, to
call it a caufe of prize becaufe the original taling was a capture,
.as prize ? Or are we to refufe to call it a trqpaft ,though.the fecond
P
takin-g was not a capture, as prize ?
How far foever, the learned Judges in England, have carried the
juftification of captures, from the circumftance of their being made
as prize, yet they never have carried it as far as this cafe extends.
That they have gone a great way is evident. In the cited cafe of
"Yranderoodf and others'againft Thormpfon, the defendant, in an a&ion
of trefpafs, having a !ter of 216rfue, took a vehel that made
Tome refiftance, and carried her to N7ewccfie, where fhe was feized
by the Cuftorn-Houfe Officers, for havingfmuggled goods on hoard;.
and ihe was afterwards condemned iIi the Exchequer. It was contended for the plaintifF, that the capture was unlawful, becaufe the
dfefendant did not elong to the Cujem-Hufe, and he could not juifify
the hovering a& of 6 Geo. . ch. ii. as' King's
the
.hiisfejzure
cnly canunder
feize widerfuch
circumflances. It was held, " As there
vwa: reafon to fyppofe that the fhip was a pirate, though the fury
/.ould befatisfiedjhe was not reallyJo, yet the a ion would not
A..terwards, "there was a motion for a new trial, which upon con-.
fider-tion, was denied by the Court."
If that caufe was cognizable in the Prize Court, and if that
Court determines folely by -thelaw of nations and treaties, as Is laid
down by the Judges, how were other nations interefted in the pr'nciple ot fuch a decifion 2 If it was not cognizable in -the Prize
Court, how. can it be applied to the prefent cafe, in favor of the
Refpondent ?
To proceed-If the Courts of JZj/lminifter Hall, in rn anion
for ilch a trefpafs as this, jhouldrefife to take cognizance becaufe
taking was a capture asprize, or pnder colour that the
h er-icinal
e
*feccrd .

Sceffity

1-rGH

COURT of ERRORS

and APPEALS of Pennfyivania. Io5

recond taking was a captpie as prize, ought any fuch decifion to 1784.
have weight with us in thbis cafe ?-It ought not.
Such a decifion muif turn entirely upon the municipal law of.
England. It muft be founded upon this principle governing in the
faafes cited by the council for the refpondent; " that, of a feizure
-asprize, the Common Law doeA not take notice as a trefpafs."
Le Caux and Eden. Admit the principle. It applies not.- T'his is
:not a Common Law Court. The AS of Affembly eftablifhing this
Court, makes it a " a Court of Appeals from definitive fentences
or decrees of the Admiralty." We are therefore a Court of Admiralty. " If the fentence.of the Court of Admiralty is thought to be
errxneous, there is, in every maritime country, a Super, -r Court
of Review, &c.- to which the parties who think themfelves aggrieved, may appeal ; and this Superior Court judges by the fame
rule which governs the Court of Admiralty, viz. the law of nations ana treaties. This manner of trial and adjudication is fipported, alluded to, and enforced by many treaties." Anfwcr of
the Britlih Court,, &c. We are a Court of Ad'rniraltv, competent
to judge by that rule. The a& Of Afflembly eftablithing Admiralty Jurifdi&ion in this flate, declares, that the Court IhalT be
governed by "1the law of nations," Whatever in the law of nations relates to a Court of Admiralty, relates to this Court, be-.
eaufe no treaty has diverted the applicatPion. Anfwer of the Briti/b
Court, &c. V'attel. b. 2, ch. 7- 3 Blackfl. 69.
Much has been faid of a diffintion in England, between the In_fiance Court and the. P ize Court, though 'the powers of both ace
exercifed by. the fame perfon ; and it is urged that only the latter
judges by the law of nations and treaties. We are told, " it is no
more like a Court of -dmiralty, than it is to any Court of refminfier-Hall; that the manner of proceeding is totally different; that
the appeaf is different-to Delegates from the Admiralty-to Commiffiloners confifling of Privy Councellors, from -he Court of
Prize.-That to conftitute the authority of the Prize Court, or to
call it forth in every war, a commifflon under the Great Seal iffues,
&c."* Such a difin&ion may prevail in England,but is it known
or regarded in other nations r The words " to call it forth," are
material. It feems only a folemn, oficial, notification to the Admiralty, that there is a-war, and that it may proceed accordingly,
as a declaration of war is a notification to the people in general.
But
this declaration
does not make the war in the one cafe; nor,
Ierhaps,
does the commiffion
conffitute the authority in the other.
t is confeffed," that'the n of antient ihflrument fhews a Prize -7url/dtilion either inherent or by commillion in the Admiral It i s a letter
from Edwardthe Third to the King of Portmagal." And, " that
fince the feign of Queen Elizabeth, the 7udge of the..drn.ralty.
either by virtue of an inherent power, or the King's comm-Ifion,
0
or
'Lord

Mansfdd delirvcring the rfolution of the Court, in the c.,o o-f

;ai"ft .odnV

and anotber.

Lna,

i o6
1784-.
s

CAsxs ruled and adjudged in the

or both, basfolely exercifed the jurdiY7icm of Priz.-andthat as far
back-as particular cafes can be traccd, v hich is for a century, the
.ddmiralty has judged of and condemned gocds taken on land, as
prie, as well as goods taken on fea." Lord Mansfield, delivering
of the Court, in the cafe of Lind; againft Rodne and
the refolution
*
another.
What do treaties, antient and modern, fipulate for, in order. to
guard againft violences on the feas ? A trial in the Court of Admiralty, as oon as poflible, before the ee&s taken are in any manner
to be difpofed of. Why ? becaufe, by the mnritime law of nations, that court judges by the law of nations and treaties. Sir George
Lee, Do&or Paul,$ir Dudley Ryder, and Mr. Murra), now Lord
iTfansfield, in their report, which forms the principal part of the anfwer of the Britijh Court, and is fo celebrated by Meffrs Montefquieu and Pattel,t fay, "By the maritime law of nations, univerfally
and immemorially received, there is an 5fiabiF/hed method of determi-nation, whether the capture BE, OR BE NOT, LAWFUL PRIZE. Before the fhip or goods can be DZsPosrD OF by the captor, there
mull be a regular-judicial proceeding, wherein both parties may be
heard, and condemnation thereupon, as prize, in a Court of ,dmiralty, judging by the law of nations and treaties. The proper and regular Court for thefe condemnations, is the Court of that Rate to
whom the captor belongs."
Are we then, becaufe in England they call the Admiralty Court a
Prize Court when -it acqs in a caufe of prize, and it then proceeds
in a different manner, with an appeal to Commiflioners of the Privy Council, to reje& the "univerfal and immemorial" compa& of
when we liftened to the lanmankind? There was a timeguage of her Senates and her Courts, with a partiality of veneration, as to oracles. It is paft-we have affumed our Ration among
the powers of the earth, and muff attend to the voice of nationsthe fentiments of the fociety intb which we have entered.
Lord Mansfield, iri the caufe of Lind againfi Rodney and another,
faid, " The end of a Prize Court is to fufpend the property till condemnation; to punifh every fort of mifbehaviour in the captors;
to reflore inflantly, veli levatis, if upon the moft *fummary examination, there does not appear a fufficient ground; to condemn finally (if the goods really are prize) -gainft every body, giving every
body a fair opportunity of being heard :-A captor may, and muff
force every perfon interefted, to defend ; and every perfon interefted,
hefe views
may force him to proceed to condemn without delay.
cannot be anfwered in any Court of -'~einiifler-Hall,and therefore
the
'The very great antiquity of the Court of Admiralty in Arnglantd and the extent
of its jurifdidlion, may be known frcm the learned Selden': notes on Faortfcue do
Laudibus p. 67. Zoucb 4-1, &c. Goolbph. p. 22, &c. Tho the authority of this
Court, with refpea~ to matters in which fareign nations may be concerned, and

PArficularly to capturesjure&l, is treated of, yet no diftinclion is made by thefe
2,tthor', as to the Court of 4dmiraft3 and the Court of-Prize.
eaontefqoieu's Letters, $ Mtarch, 1753. Fattl, bo. ,,ch. 7. §
f

4.

.Bladj? 70-

HIGH COURT of ERRots and ArEALS of Pennflvania. 107
the Courts of W rmmn/)fler-Hall never have attempted to take cognizance of the queftion-Prize or no Prize; not from the locjality v
:of being done at Lea, but from their incompetence to embrace' the
whole of the fubje&."
,, 21e v;ews are anfwered" here in the Court of Admiralty, and
-withas good cautions as in England; and as far as a Court of Appeals. is concerned, they can be anfwered in this Court as fully, as
in a Court of Appeals to Commiifioners there.
It feems proper here, to take notice of the objeion againft the
,authority of this Court, founded on the words of the Law by which
it was efltablifhed, prior to the completion and final ratification of
the confederation. It is cdnifituted " a Court .of .Appeals for reviewing, re-confidering, "and dorre&ing, the definitive lentences and
decrees of the Court of Admiralty, other than in cafer of capture
-upon the wafer in'time of war,from the enemies of the -United States
The conltru&ion of the'e words depends 'upon the refolutions of
Congrefs, the Confederation, and the law by which the Admiralty
Jurifditaion is eflablifhed, taken together.' If the principles of our
preceeding.conflru&ion are right, they apply as aptly here, and the
nppeal is regular. I it is not, there will be a defe& of juflice.
The Legiflature intended to give this Court an authority to receive
.all Appeals from the judge of Admiralty, where they were not reiigned to a Continental Court of Appeals. This was not refigned.
,It therefore belongs to this Court, We will endeavour to promote juftice, according to the intentions of the Commonwealth,
conveyed in the laws; and not demit any part of her fovereignty,
unlefs we are convinced beyond a doubt, that it is our duty." to do
fo.
We now return to the lafl of the fecondary queffions. Did the
"CourLof Admiralty take cognizance as a Prize Court? In conlidering this queftion, a very ftri& attention muft be had to the p oceedings of the-Court of Admiralty in this cafe.-That Court was
alfo crewed by an ad of Affembly, .prior io the ;completion and
It is, to be fure,. a Court
final ratification of the Confederation.
of Prize, and an Inflance Court, if-that mode of exprelion be *pre-.
ferred; or in other words, the judge who has but one commiflion,
may try caufes of Prize', and other matters of Admiralty -Jurifdiction. There is a difference in his.proceedings for condemnation in
caufes of prize, and ihofe in other cafes. His fliie by law is, "Judge

of the Admiralty." The reafonable and legal meaning of the 3d,
4th and 6th fe~tions cof'the law under which he aals, is, that in trying a caufe of prize, -the veffel or goods taken, mull be withbin his
jurifdiffion, preciri& and power. They are thefe,--" That in cafes
of prize, capture or re-capture upon, the water, from enemies, or by
way of reprifal, or from pirates, the fame fhall be tried, adjudged,
and determined, as well as to the que.tion whether prize or not, as to
"he claims of the parties interefled or pretending to Le - hnteretlcd in the
fame, by the law of nations and the a&s aiid ondinances ,of Con(,fs

xo8
1784.

CASFS ruled and adjudged in the

grefs, before the Laid Judge, by witneffes, according to the courfe of"
civil law ;" and-",, That the Captain or Ccmmander of iny
Ihip or veffel of war, or Prize-I'rafler, ur other perfon, ,avirg charge
01 airy capture or re-capture, or other property feized upon the wiater as afqrefiid* who fhall cond5l or bring the feiqe into port, Ihallimmediately deliver the fame, Without diminution, to the Marthall
of the faid iourt of Admiralty."
The lim then goes on to dire& the mode of proceeding to the
condemnation, ordering, "That the Judge fhall caufe notice to be
pubi.lhed immediately in fome news-paper of the day appointed for
the a ial ofjiich prize, inferting therein the name, fize or burthen,
and c-'ther defcription of the | id v=iFe ,fo taken and brought into port,
the name and fur-name of the maflet, the place The laft failed from,
the port for which deftined, and in cafe of a re-icapture; by what
Ibip or vefl taken, to the end that all perfons concerned may appear and Ihew caufe, if any there be, wherefore fuch capture, or re.alPture, goods, merchandize, or other propcrty, fhoutld not be condemned and adjudged to the .Libellants."
Does the prefent cafe in any manner refemble the " cafes ofprize"
defcrlbed in this law ? Where are " Clairmants interS/.ed or pretending
to be intere/ie4." Claimants are voluntary Applicants 'or Juftic.
Shall trefpaffers, compelled to anfwer for their Awrong, cover themfrives with: that chara-er ? Can there be "Clamonts," but in a proceeding in rei? -How would the publication before mentioned
fuitj ch Claimants as the appellants? Were the proceedings of
the judge .* a this cafe, fuch as he co;/lant!v has cbfrved in cafes
of prize? They were not. Application was made to him for davagts.- He proceeded in that line. Here is neither libel nor procefs-againft the capture.-no moniton,-" no notice" under the
a& of Affembly.
Vhat could give the Judge of the Admiralty for this Jate, jurif*di~aion to proceed as a Court of Prize upon a. capture contefled be-

Sthe

tween citizens ofdffferntjlates, which is the cafe here, rather than

any.Court of Admiralty in any other ftate, when the property captured was not within the power of hi, Jurifdicdion? Becaufe, it is
faid, frome ofthe offending Captains and their veffels came into this
port. Does the jurifdi&ion of a Court of Prize dcpend on certain offenders, with refpe&. to the capture coming into a port ?
Where are the authorities of law to fhew that this cir'nn!flance can
give fuch jurifdiffion, or, that there can be an inflitution of a caufe
o/rize, according to .k.'e maritime law of nctions, far damages only ?

r he authorities cited, that were thought moft appofite, and were
mcft relied on by the Counfel for the Refpondent, were thofe of
Bro' n and Burton ag,-inft Frantlhn, the King's Proctor; and of the
ZAing againft Broom. But they are not in any manner. applicable.
In the firf, the Plaintiffs, Mafters of twb veffels, but having no regular Letters of Marque, took a Frenib fhip, cargo and .money,upon
land, ih the Erl Irdies- they being Engfijh fubjeds, it was held,
.hat they acquired no right by this capture, but that it was a perqui-

-iiGH CouRT of ERRORS arkd APPEALS of PennJ lvania.
fite ofthe .dm;rihlty.

.The

I09

King's Pro&or, upon the uffial moniti-

on, got a fentence of condemnation for the whole, in order to make
them account. In brief, they had effeds in their hands, which by the
maritime law of England, belonged to the King or his Admiralty,
and they were obliged to account for them according to that law.
x2 Mod. r35. Lord MansId calls it a proceeding in. rem. Le
Caux and El"den, in the notes. The fecond cafe was of the fame
kind, aiid was decided on the fame principles. It was further faid
by the Council for the Refpondent, that the Court of Admiralty that
firfl'pro~eeds in fuch a cafe as the prefent, acquires an, exclufive
right of deciding upon it, in the fame manner as the nation that fira
commences a judicial procefs againit pirates, may pronounce fentence againft them. To fay no more an this comparifon, it is fufcient to obferve, that fuch a right may be attributed to the attrocity of the guilt, as the offenders are ho/es humani generis.
If the coming of Trefpaffers, or of the veffels in which they
trefpaffed upon the high Seas, within the power of a Judge's jurifdi&ion, authorifes him to proceed againft them, to what confufion may it lead? A capture is made from an enemy; afterwards
friends trefpafs againit the prize, and -arrive in different ports, the
fate of the prize being unknown. They are profecuted in one or
more'Courts of Admiralty. The prize at length arrives in a different port, and is libelled in a different Court of Admiralty, for
condemnation in the ufual manner. What con.iefls for jurifdiffion
mull enfue ? "Q2 uod inconmveniens eft non licitum eft."
We are unanimoufly of opinion, that the Judge of the Admiralty
for this ftate had jurifdiaion in this caufe," and that the appeal to
us is regular. We decree, that the Refpondent recover and have
of the Appellant-, i,i4xl. 5 s.4d. with cofls, except thofe i4 this
Court, of which each paity is to pay a moiety.*
S e P-5
j. .Purvianre Ta Angus.

i78. .

