CasES ruled and adjudged in the
1773.

dpril Term, 1773.

The Lefeeof the

Ro.RrETARY verfusRALsTON.

p

L A I NT I F F fliewed a title in himfelf to the Province of
Pennfylvania, and then refted.
Defendant fhewed a deed for one thoufand acres of land-alfo
a warrant to himfelf, and two others, to take up three thoufand
acres of land, which included the lands in controverfy-alfo a
power of attorney to David Llkya, to take care of faid and, and an
account of the expences of fiirvey..
Defendant having fhewn title in a third porfon, as he conceived,
moved for a nonfuit, and as authorities cited Bath. Nis. Prius.Iflfit..

leg. ite Ejea.
Plaintid's Council infifted to know, whether the Defendant had
gone through all his evidence and faid that he was not entitled to
the opinion of the Court till then upon his title in a third perfon.

BRuT THE COURT determined contra: and then gave their opi-

nion, that as the Defendant's deed was a conditional deed upon the face
of it, he was not intitled to a nonfuit.
The Plaintiff's Council then contended, that they had a right to
demur to the Defendant's evidence. This %as oppofed by the
Defendant's Council, who infifted they had a right to go through
their evidence, before the Demurrer was allowed. Of which opi-

nion THE

COURT

alfo was: and the Defendant .proceeded with

his evidence, among which was a letter from: Afillam Penn, the
firit, acknowledging this fale and grant..
The Plaintift afterwards offered a fubfequent letter of 0. 7ihiam
Penn's, declaring the gr.nt to be conditional; and, as this condition
was not performed, the grantees fhould not have the land.
This the Defendant's Council oppofed, on the principle, that no
man could cre. te evidence for himfelf
Tilghrnan. Letters are like converfation when the 'hole muff
be given.
Dick'ifrn, on the fame fide, offered there authoities : 12 n. Tor.
An old manufcript evidence. id. 247. The declaration of a woman
prefent

CopaT of PCnnfylvanla.

$trrltlEB

19

?rerent at the birth of a child in proof of pedigree. 3 A2'd. 36. to
Ihew that the Dcfendant's rule of evidence is too lI&.
Upon full argument, THE CoURT over-ruled the eviderIce,
vpon the principle contended for by the defendant's council. '
Some ot the defendant's council, the next day, offered fomne of
Do&or Coxe's letters to David Llkyd, Ihewing that the condition
wi'h.
lomplied
bad been
BUT 'rHE OURoIT adhered to their opinion, and over-ruled thefe
letters alfo.-A verdi& paffed for the plaintiff, by which the fenfe of
the Jury ws, that the non performance of conditions of fettlement,
did not void the 4rant, * "

Sitetmber Term,

Th e

Of BIDPL

1773.

verfus

SHIPPEN.

T' H E. Plaintiff, among other evidence, offered a Map, made by
.1 one Zimmerman, about thirty.years ago. One Yohn Ifnorr,
Zimmerman's nephew, proved that faid Map was the work of his
Uncle, at the requeft of the People of Gormantown ; that his
it remained in the family;
VUncle dying before he was paid for it,
that it contains the lines of the Germantown Lbts, and the adjacent
out Lands; that, upon any difficulty, they apply to him, and this
Mao generally dete-rmines any di'pute they'may have about their
Lines.

Mr. Chew 6ppofed this Map, -at firft, but afterwards agreed that
the Lands in controvetfy were as laid down. in it, and admitted it
wtith a falvo of its being no pxecedent. Upon the Plaintiff'soffering
it to theJury to take out xiith them, Mr. Chew oppofed it; and fome
difference arifing, THE COURT declared itwasnot properevidence,
.that they ".1ould not have allowed its being offered to thejury -not
would they fuffer them to take it out with them.
.letermied at ChoAr,

i..Prj. v4th AugaLz£ ,.

t773.

