45611789.
L-V ..

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

of infolvent debtors, for the afligning of bohds, and for.defalcation:
And the laft of thefe A&s fays, that " if two or more, dealing togsther (which words are not to be found in either of the Engl h fta" tute) -bb indebted to each other upon bonds, &c." when an 2ction is commenced, the Defendant may plead payment, and give his
bond, &c. in evidence againrf the Plaintiff's demand.
If then, the obligee could have defalked the bond in queftion, (of
v*hith, we think, no doubt can reafonably be entertained) and he
has legally affigned all his right and interefi in it to the Pliintiff in
Error, why fhould not the affignee be entitled to the fame adrantage,
fince the A& for the aflignment of bonds has placed him on the
fame footing.?
Ther6 is another cIaufe in the Defalcation A&, which prgvides,
that where a.Plaintiff and Defendant have accounts to produce one
againrf another, they may refer them, and the report of the referrees
hall have the effe& of a verdi6L: Now, although the words are confined tothe cafe of accounts, yet the conftruaion of the A& has liberally extended the right and benefit of fuch : refe rrence, to every
cthcr caufe of a&ion.
. For the fake of Juftice, and to prevent an odious multiplication
of fuits, we think, that the fame liberality fhould be exercifed in the
cafe before us; and are unaitirnoufiy of opinion, that the Judgment
of the Court below ought to be "reverkd.
Judgment reverfed.

GR~vE et.. al. Admors, vefus HARRIS.

T

HIS Caufe came before the Court on a cafe flated, .which was,
his
in fubftance, as follows :-The inteftate, .7ehn Graeme, in"
life time, to wit, in December term 1772, obtained a Judgment againfi the Defendant, in a plea of debt, in the County Court of
Common Pleas of Philadelphia. He afterwards died, being refident
at the time of his death in Great-Britain,of which kingdom he was
a fubje&. Upon his deceafe, the Plaintiffs obtained Letters of Adminiftration from the Archbifhop of York, in the faid kingdom,
which bore date the 25 th of June 1784 ; but to this a6lion, which
Was afcirefacias to revive th'e above-mentioned Judgment, the Defendant pleaded, that the Plaintiffs never were Adminifirators: Iffue
was thereupon joined ; and this queftion filbmitted to the opinion of the Court, whether under the authority of the Letters of
Adminiftration granted by the Archbifhop of 2ork, the Plaintiffi
could maintain the prefent adion ?
The point was argued on the 26th of September, by Rawle, fer the
Plaintiffs, and by Sergeant and Swift for tie Defendant.
Rawle relied on the A& of Affembly, which declares, that Letters
of Admyjiniftration granted out of t'he Province were fufficient ior the
purpofc

SaPrMR, COURT of PMlfylv'ania.

457

aUrpofe of-bringli g aaions. Stale Laws. 3o. He urged, that twis 1789.
law, as well a, othe'rlaws of the Province, was recognized andc6n- "
firmed by the aat 6f the 28th of 7anuary, 1777 ;'that fich letters ot
•dminiftration were a competent authority by the law of'nations;
Godb. 83. 47. and that it had been detcrmined in a filter Statc, that
letterso'fAdminiftration granted in "A'ev-York, were fufficient to
inmirttain aalions in Gonniocut. Kirb. Re. 270.
8erjeantaind Sw it contended, that the necerary operz.:ion of thz
Revolution, - had altered the law declared in the a& of Affembly,
and the words " out of the province," were 'evidently meant of
places;'within the Briti.h dominions. They urged, that this was
In attempt to give more force to the'letters bf'adminiftration, than
they would be entitled to even in the Briijh dominions; for, if
'there were bona notabilia, in England, and in Irland, letters of admini iration,muit be'taken out in both kingdoms. 2 Bac. Ahr. 399.
iI Fin. 59. pl. 6.ibi. 74 pl. I. or, eyen if there were hona notabilia in. two different provinces, as Canterburyand 2rk, letters
of adminiftration muff be granited in each. Palm. r63. The argunents ab ilcolivenitnti, ire likewife in favor of the Defendant; for,
:f this authbriiy is good, the greditbrs of the inteflaie mull purfue
'the adminiftrators in Ehglard, or any boreign coirntry, where the
law differs with refpe&'t the priority of debts. Befides, the fecu-.
r~ty given by adminiftiators, is only with relatiofi to the 4pparent
value of the perfonal efate w'here adminiftration is granted.-Sec
Art. of Confed. art. 4. Con/f. Penn.fefl. 342 State Laws 41.
The Cotrt, havingconfidered the cafe and 'arguments, were unanimoufly of opinion, that the letters of adniiniltration, granted by,
the archbilhop of York, were-not a fufficient authority to maintain
hn aC6tidn in this Commonwealth and gave,
Judgment for the Defendant,

BUNIR.verus N-IL.
I-I I S c'aure was removed by Habeas Corpus from the Court
of Common Pleas of -PhiladelphiaCounty, and, on the trial, a
verdiSi was found in favor of ihe Plaintiff, forC4, i o. 8. which the
Adefendant paid to the Pirothonotary,andthen moved-to flay proceedingi, cbntcndiiig, fhat as the Plaidtiff's demand was reduced below
f.ro. by a'dire& payment,, and not by difcount, or fet off, the
Flaintiffriufl pay thecolts.
IT'he Plaintiff, On the other hand, obtained a rule to fhew caufe,
why the Defendant fhould not- pay double cols, inder Ihe A&'ot
Affembly, which provides, that, ifthe defendant removes ihecaufe,
ond a fim uhder L.5o is found for the Plaintiff, thc Defendat
flall pay double colts.
T

Mmm

After

