8

C '.%truled and adjudged in ilic.

1763.
PRIc-.

vefjiis WATKINS.

S

PECIAL Verdi&t. The -Oeftion arofe on thefe Words f
a Will.-" Item my.'Will is that after my AVie Ruth Price's
Deceafe, or if fhe hall alter her Condition and marry, then in fuchi
Cafe I devife and bequeath unto my'loving Ftiends I. W. and
M. K. or' to any one of them, in cafe the other hould. die, iix
" Truft and for the Intent to fell and convey.all that Mefluage &c.
to any Perfon or Perfons that fhall.purchafe the fame, and the
IMoney arifingfrom the Sale of the Premifes fhall be divided be.
"..tween my Children herein after named, when they attain feve-,
rallr to fhe Age of ax Years or'be marred, which fhall firfi hap" pen."
Samuel Price-one of the Children aitained the Age of 24
Years and married, and afterwards died inteftate and without iffue
in the lfe Time of the flator s TYdow RuA Price,who did never mar-,
ry again. Then the Widow died, and irfter her Death the Tuftees
fold, and the Adminiftratrix of Samuel brings thi's Suit for Samuc s.
proportionable part of: the Money arifing from 'he Sale of the
Houfe. And the Queftion was, whether this-was. a veiled Legacy
to .amuel, or whether it was lapfed by his dying before the Traftees
had power to fell, to wit, in the life Timeofthe Tetator's Wi-:
ior the Plaintiff it wa.urged, that Land ordered to be fold and
converted into Money, was to be confidered as. perfonal Eftateo
That this Land was to be fold at all Events, fo thiere was no Contrigency. That both Events to make a veiling in Sanwel had happen-,
ed, td wit, attaining the Age of 21 and nmarryingi and that this
Cafe was exa&ly fimilar to the Cafe of King verfus Wfrilkes. T'albot's
afes 117. Beides Which m-any'other Cafes were cited for the Plaintilffviz. 2 Jern, 536. x Peer Abi~llams 1o9. 2 P9e-r X"1iams.3.Oo
• SZb. Ca. Eq, 548. 2 Vent. 347. 2 Venf. 758. 7 66. 4Bace..
.Jk
"654,308. 2 Pent. 166. , z VerW 72.- 348. 424, .2 -Jb. -Ca. Eq.
For the Defendant it was faid, thait in Legacies to be-raifed out
of Land, the Timne of Payment is the Time of vfling, That in:
this Cafe the Land could not.be confidered as peribnal Etate, ill
the Truflees.had power to fell it, which was not till after the Widow's Death, and that Samuel.dying before, his Legacy was lapfed*
and would merge for the B-nefit of the Heirs. And tht Cafe of
ads and Ferry -was muchlrelied on, Vin. .Del 383. The other
Q- fvs:.ited for the. Defendant were 2d Vern. 92. 4L6 . 2o8. 2 Pzce't
.I;7liams276. 6ro. 484. 3PfTr-W,)lias 2o'
BUT, Tfl CoRti" were clearly of Opinion, that it was a 7_qd
4og-4cj, ad Judgnient.was given for tho Plaintiff.

AP=1-.

