COU'RT of COMMONT PLEAS, Philade&ia County.

131

And now, .uguf 8, 1785, Sitgreaves filed defendant's affidavit of
-jufl defence, and obtained a,rule t, ihew caufe, why the proceedings in the bail bond fuit fhould, not be flayed on 'paying cofls,
pieading iffuably in the original aaion, taking 1hort notice of trial,
a'd confenting that the judgment on the b. I bond fhould itand as
a fecurity. He.cited .Barnes's notes 74. Bfrch vs Graves. 1b. 85.
Otway vs Cockayne. Ibid. 91. Seaber s Powell. Ibid i12. Morley
vs Carr.
On the x3 th of Auguf#, Srgeant, for the plaintiff, hewed caufe
but, after argument, the *ule was made abolute.
CAAPBELL

verfus RICHARDSOX,

HT'NE Defendant had bee",bail for his brother, who fuffering
X judgment to 'go againft him, a Scire facias was iffued againit
the defendant, and In due crurfe judgment thereon-In the-interim,
between the recognizance of bail and judgmenf on the &ire Jtczas,
feveral judgments were obfained agaiiit the detendant by his proper creditors, executioris ifued, and his real egate was feized and
l'oldr But the proceedts not being fufficient to fatisfy all the judgments, the Sheriff brought thl morey into Court, to be ditpofed
of as the Court fhouln dire&.
Sergeant, for the plaintiff Campbell, infifled, that recognizance of
bail, is a lien upon the land fron the date .f tjie recognizance, and,
therefore, claimed a preference to all judgments afterwards obtained,
although, they might be previous to the judgment o~i the Seer€ Ja.asNHe cited to this purpofe, Seat. 29. Car. 2.' t9.
2 Bac.
dbr. 363. 365. 10 Fin. 559- 563 2 Salk. 564. Cro. Elz. 551.
Ingerfol, on the contrary contended, that Campbell fhould only
have preference from the date of the judgment on the Stire facias;
and. argued from the flatute of frauds and our a& ofAffembly afcera;iliing the mode of paying the debt of decedants, a~ad cited I Peer
Wins. 333. Cro. Jat. 449.
After conrfideration, the PREsSIDE1T delivered the opinion of
the Court, on. the 26th of Auguft.
SHIPPr'x, Prefdent.-This is a queftion concerning the binding
nature of a recognizance o.' bail, as to the lands of the bail; and
whether, in Penfylvania, a prior recognizance creditor, or flubfequent
judgment credit)rs, ihall have the prexerenze.
From the cafes citcd, it appears, that, although lands in England
are bund by recognizance; yzt there is fome uic rtainty as to the
time from which they are bound : whether irom the captin, or from
the inrollment of the recognizance; orfrom ihe judgmint againt' the
principal ; or froill a tion ejl invwntus retu. ned upon the Ga, 4a. And,
fcveral of'the cafes wich mention that i nds are bound upon the
R- 2

cai.tiWt

1785
.

132

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

.785. ca tion, are fince the Statute of fiauds, vi hich fays that the lien fOl.al

•
,

be from the inrolinent.

I do not find that there have been any legal decifions upon this
point in PenJylvania; but a gcneral opinion has taken place, which
has been Z:a-ried into univerlal pialice, that recognizances do not
here bind lands, until they are proceeded upon to judgment againrf
the bail. Hence it i-, that, whenever a purchafe, or mortgage, is
made, the examination at the offices, and the certificates which are
given by the prothonotaries, are only of the judgments in force againit the feller, or mortgagor, and not coficerning recognizances.
>i he pradtice has, indeed, b en lo general, that all the conveyancers
and iwyers, for a long courfe of years, have, on fuch occalions,
confined their enquiries to that circumrfance alone; and many titles
muft, therefore, dcpend upon it, which could be fhaken it a contrary corlrulion ihould now be adopted.
Whether this opinion took its rife from the different fituation in
which the lan'ds of this counti-y are from thofe of England, and from
.their being liable to beold for debts ; or from thie filence of the Legiflature upon the fubjeEt ; or from -vhat other caufe, we can but
conje&ure. It is remarkable, however, that when our "2& for the
prevention of frauds was made, in the year 1772, although the Le'gifiature copied the claufe in the EngiAfb flatute relating to judgments, and Was minutely exa&'.as to the time from -hich they
fhould bind lands, yet they totally omitted the cl.ufe relating to recognizances. This filence, it is true, is no abrogation of a law ;
but it looks as if the Afflembly had taken up the popular idea, that
recbgnizances didnot bind till judgments were obtained upon them,
and, therefore, they.zhought that no particular provifion was in that
refpe a neceflhry. Upon what priinciple, indeed, could they elfe
have been fo careful 6f innocent purchafcrs'in the one tafc, and not
in the other?
We may alfo properly take info vieiv, that, long before the paffing this a&for the prevention of frauds, the relative dgnity of
judgment debts, ard of thofe upon recognizance, had been fettled
"by a law, dire&ing the order of p;ying the debts of perforis deceafed. That is-ift. Phyfic and f urieral expences.-2d. Debts and
duties to the Queen.-3d. Debts due totheproprietor andgovernor.4 th. ")udmiets..'"5th. Debts due'by recognizancs.--6th. Rents &c.
If, however, it fhould be faid, that this is only a diredion in Ahat
order debts Thall be paid, without any refpect to the binding nature
of judgments and recognizanes, it may be anfw'erd, that,- from
the fituation of lands in this country, that confideration muft neceffarily, be included. Mere, as I have already lobferved, lands are
chattels for the p,:yment of debts ; they are chaftels too in the hands
of executors ; and all writ of I'Y.fa. dirt 6 the levy accordingly to
be made, of the goods and chattel:, la;,ds and le ents of the deccafed, in.the hnds of the executor. If, then, in fhch a cal, two writs
are executcd upon lands, founded, one upon a prior recognizance,
and the other on a judgment fulbfequent to the recogniiance, but
prior

COURT of COMMON PLEAS, PhiladphiaCounty.

133

prior to the judgo-ment upon it, the Court muft clearly decree a
preference to the judgment creditor. This feems indeed to be a
legiflative dire&ion as to recognizances in fimilar cafes; for, what
confuifion woula arife, from fuipoting the lands of deceafe'd perfons
to be bound from one tine, and the lands of living perfons front
another ?
Upon the whole, we think, that great mifchiefs and dangers
would be impofed upon honeft purchafors, if, at this time of day,
we fliould unfettle what has been fo long the general opinion and
pra ice on this fubje&. Therefore,
Let the plaintiff take preference only from the-date of the judg.
oent on the SireFacias.
SHOEMAKEr

verfus

SHIRTLIFFE.

1 'f-E"

defendant had executed a bond, with warrant of attorney
to confefs judgment to the plaintiff. The bond was payable
on the i 't. of September 1785 ; but there was no provifion for a itay
of execution, till that time, inferted in the warrant of attorney.
The plaintiff ij'ued a Fi.fa. before the ift of September, and Da!las for the defendant, moved to fet it alide.
THE COURT were of opinion, that theiwarrant of attorney reciting the bond, was only an infirument fubfervient to it; and, confequently, that the execution could not be iffhed, ;ill the time gi%;en
for payment was expired.
TIe execution fet afide.

BuRROWS

verfus

HEYSHAM.

[CRE F2CI1S aainift the bail, and the judgment removed by
writ of error. Jpon the iifiing of a Certiorarito bring up the
Tecord, the pl-!intiffs moved to anend the Scire Facias by the record,
fubifituting September i782 for D eccx;ber i781. The motion hazd
been argued at tli lait term, and now came on for a ftcon,- argiunent.
On the part of the.defendant, it was faid, that as the cauf had been
removed, by writ of error, this Court had no longer any jurifdidion over it; but this objeCtion'was not infitcd upon. Thug. 1o.
i1o. and CuoP. 841. 844. had been cited for theplaintiffon theiriiar
argumen; but thefl were cafics of'ejetmeiit; and it would overfet

the law, if other points were to be brought within the pri:ciple,
by which ejeffments are regulatcd. With refpe& to amrendin-nts
ljthe it1tutes of je0fid,,, they were only in matters of form.; but
tld

i7a5.

