SUPREME COURT of Pennfyl ania.

RESPUBLICA

O

verus

319
17 8B

OSWALD.

Nthe x2th of Yuly, Lewis moved for a rule to fhew caure why
an attachment fhould not iffue againft Eleazer Ojwald, the
printer and publifher of the Independent Gazetteer.
The cafe was this: Ofwald having inferted in his newfpapers
feveral anonymous pieces againif the chara&er of A4ndrew Browne,
the mafter of a female academy, in the city of Philadelphia, Browne
applied to him to give up the authors of thofe pieces ; but'being refufed that fatisfa&ion, he brought an. a&ion for the libel againft
Ofwald, returnable into the Supreme Court, on the 2d day of yly ;
Previoufly 'to the return
and therein demanded bail for Xt ooo.
day of the writ, the queffion of bail being brought by citation before
Mr. .uflice BRYAN, at his chambers, the Judge, on a full hearing
of the caufe of aaion, in the prefence of both the parties, ordered
the Defendant to be difcharged on common bail; and the Plaintiff"
appealed from this order to the court. Afterwards, on the If f
fuly, Ofwald publifled under his own fignature, an addrefs to tle
public, which contained a narrative of thefe proceedings, and the
following paffages, which, I conceive, to have been the material
grounds of the prefent motion.
When violent attacks are made upona perfon under pretext of
juflice, and-legal fteps are taken on the occation, not perhaps to redrefs the fippofed injury, but to feed and giatify partifaning and
temporifing refentments, it is not unwarrantable in fuch perfon t6
reprefent the real Oatement of his cafe, and appeal to the world for
their fentiments and countenance.
" Upon thefe confiderations, principally, I am now emboldened
to trefpafs on the public patience,. and muff folicit the indulgence
of my friends and cuffomers, while I prefent to their notice, an account of the fleps lately exercifed with me; from which it will appear that my fituation as aprinter, and the rights of the prefs and of
freemen, are fundamentally ftruck at; aiid an earneft endeavour is on
the carpe.t to involve me in difficulties to pleafe the malicious difpofitions of old and permanent enemies."
"But until the news had arrived laft 7'hurfday, that the ninth
flati had acceded to the new federal government, I was not called
upon; and Mr Page in the afternoon of that day vifited me ixi dute
form of law with a writ. Had Mr. Browdie purfued me in this line.
"without lofs of time," agreeably to his lawyer's letteri I fhould
not have ffippoLed it extraordinary-but to arreft me the moment
thefederalintelligencecame to hand, indicated that the commencement ot this fuit was not fo much the child of his own fancy, as it
has been probably di6tted to and urged on him by others, whofe
fentiments upon the new conflitution have not inevery refpea coi*ncided with mine. In fa&, it was my idea, in the firft progrefs of
the bufinefs, that Mr. Browne was merely the hand-maid of Iorme of'
my

320

-

CAsES ruled and adjudged in the

my enemies among the federaliff ; and in this clafs I mutt rank,
his great patron Do&or Ruk (whofe brother is a judge of the" Suprrne Court) I think Mr. Brown's condu& has rince confirmed the
idea beyond a d6ubt."
"IEnemies I havehad in-the legal profeffilon, and it may.perhaps
add to the hopes of malignity, that this ation is inflituted in the "upreme Court of Pennfyivania. However, if former prejudices fhould
be found to operate againif me on the bench, it is with a jury of
my countir, properly eleaed and empannelled, a jury of freemen
and independent citizens, I"muff reff the fuit. I have efcapeJ fhe
jaws of perfecution through this channel on cdrtain memorable oci:afions, and hope I (hall never be a fufflerer, let the blaft of fa&ion
blow with all its furies!"
"'The doarine of libels being a do&rine incompatible with law
aid liberty, and at. once deftrutiQe of the' privileges of a free country in the communication of our thoughts, has not hitherto gained
any footingin Pennfylvania: and.the vile meafures toranerly taken to
lay me by the heels on this fubje& only brought down obloquy upon
the cQndu&ors themfelves. I may well fuppofe the fame love of
liberty yet pervades my fellow citizens, and mat they will not allow
the freedom. of the prefs to be violated upon any refined pretence,
which oppreflive ingenuity or courtly fiudy can invent."
" Upon trial of the caufe, the public will decide for themfelves,
.whether Mr. Browne's motives have been laudable and dignified;
whether his condu& in declining an acquittal of his characer in
the paper, anid fuing me in the manner he did, was decent and confiftent; and, in a word, whether he is not a-uated by fome of my
inveterate foes and opponents, to lend his name in their fervice for
the-purpofe of harrafling and injuring me."
A tranfcript from the records was read to (hew -that the aiftion
between Browne and Ofwdld was depending in the court ; - Yames
Martinproved that the paper containing Ofwald's addrefs was bought
at his printing office, fre1h and damp from the prefs ; and a depofition, made by Browne, was read to prove the preceding fats relative to the caufe of a6lion, the hearing before Mr. Yuflice'BRYAI',
aid the appeal from his order.
Lewis then adverted to the various pieces, which were charged as
libellous in the depending adion; and argued, that, though the li'berty of the prefs was invaluable in its nature, and ought not to be
infringed : yet, that its value did no.t confift in a boundlefs liceittioufnefs of flander and defamation. He contended, that the profeflion of Browne, to whom the education ,,f more than a hundred
children-was fometimes entnrfted, expofed him, in a peculiar manner, tb be injured by wanton afperfions cd his chara&er; and he inferred the neceffity of the a&ion, which had been inflituted, from
this confideration, that if Browne were really the monftcr which the
papers inqueflion defcribed him to be, he ought to be hunted from
fociety ; 'but, that if he had been falfely acvufed, if he had been ma]iioufl v, traduced, it was a duty that he owed to himfelf and to the
public

SUPI-EM

CoVIT of Pennfylvanhz.

3T

public to vindicate his reputation, and to call upon the juffice of the x788.
aws, to. puni h fo grofs a violation of truth and decency. For this
purpofe, he continued, a writ had been iffued, and bail was required.
The defendant, if not before, was certainly, on the bearing at the
judge's chambers, apprized of the caufe of a&ion: The order of
Mr. jfuflice BRYAN on that occafion, and the appeal to the court,
were circumfances perfe&ly within his knowledge; and yet, whil.e
the whole Therits of the caufe were thus in fufpenfe, he thought
proper to addref. the public in language evidently calculated to excite
the popular refentment againfi Browne; to create doubts and fufpicions of the integrity aind impartiality of the Judges, who muff prefide upon the trial; and to promote an unmerited compafion in his
own favour. He has defcribed himflf as the objea of former perfecutions vpon fimilar principles; he has afferted that, in this infrance, an individual is made the inftrument of a party to deftroy
him; and he artfully calls upon his fellow citizens to intereft themfelves to preferve the freedom of the prefs, which he confiders as
attacked in his perfon. Nay, in order to carl an odium upon the
new government of the United States, he infinuates, that his arreftz
was purpofely protra6led 'till the ratification of nines flates had given
liability to that fyftem: a falfehood, as unwarrantable as it is infidiout ; for, it will be proved that ihir delay took place at his own
requeft, communicated.by Col. Prollor.
Col. Pr.7or,being examined on this point, faid, that he, at firft,
defired the adion might not b brought, in hopes of accomplifhing
a compromife between the parties; that, afterwards, he requefted"
Mr. Lewis to defer iffuing the 'writ 'till as near the term as it was
poflible: but that all this interference was of his own accord, and
not at the inflance of the defendant. He acknowledged, however,
that he had informed Ofwald, that the commencement of the a&ion
would be pofiponed as long as poilible, after having obtained a promife to that effic from Mr. Lewis.
Lewis faid he was very much milIgken, indeed, if. Col. Protlor
had not mentioned the recjueft as coming from the defendant ; andCol. Proloranfwered, " if ever I told you fo, he certainly fent me;
"but I cannot remember that ever he afked me to do a thing of the
"kind."
Lewis then added, that the addrefs to the public manifeffly tend.
ed to interrupt the courfe of juftice; it was an attempt to prejudite
the minds of the people in a caufe then depending, and, by that
means, to defeat the plaintiff's claim to juflice, and to ftigmatizs
the Judges, whofe duty it was to adminifter the laws. Therecould
be no doubt, therefore, that it amounted to a contempt of the court;
and it only remained, in fupport of his motion, to fhew that an attachment was the legal mode of proceeding againif the offerlder. For
this he cited 4 Black, corn. 8o. 21tk. 469.
BY THE COURT :.-Take a rule to flhew caufe on Mnday text,
at 9 o'clock in tjhe morning.
Ss

The

.322
1788.
-

CA-sEs ruled and adjudged in the

The Defendant appearing on Monday the i4th, agreeably to the
rule to hew caule, obtained on Saturday, prayed that the rule might
be eulargad, as he had not had a reafonable time to prepare for the
argument. But Lewis oppofed' the enlargement of the rule, obferving that the defendant would be heard in extenuation, or excufe, of
the contemnt, after the attachment had iffued.
By M'KEAN, C. 7.-I know not of any inftance where a delay
of a term has been allowed in the cafe of an attachment: one realon
for fuch a fummary proceeding is to prevent delay.
Let caufe be
now fhewn.
Sergeant, in fhevring caufe againft the attachment, contended,
ihat the dodlrine, in 4 Black. Com. 28o. was laid down much too
wide.; that in 2.d4tk. 469. the Chancellor exprefsly affigns this
reafon, for his determining without a jury, that he was a judge of
a"ik7; and in x Burr. 510. 513. an information is granted on this
principle, that courts of common law will not decide- upon fa&s
without the intervention of ajury.
M'KEAN, C. Y.-This was not the reafon that influenced the
court in their decifion.
But, whatever the law might be in England, Sergeant infifted; that
-tcould not avail in Pennfyhania.

Even in England,.indeed, though
is faid to be a contempt to report the decifions of the courts, unlefs under the imbriniaturof the judges; yet, we find Burroiw, and
all the fubfequenit reporters, proceedihg without that fin&ion. But
.the
conrfitution of Pennfylvania authorizes many things to be done
which in Englandare prohibited. Here the prefs.is laid open to the
infpeaion of every citizen, who wilhes to examine the proceedings
of the government ; o which the judicial authority is certainly to
be confidered as a branch. CojI. Penn.feel. 35 it

M'KAN, C. _7.-Could not this be done in England? Certainly it could: for, in fhort, there is nothing in the conflitution or
this Rfate, refpeaing the liberty of the prefs, that has not been authorized by-the conflitution of thatkingdom for near a century pafl
-,ergeant. The 9 thfe7ion ofth-e Bill of Rights, however, puts this
fuppofed offence into flch a form, as muff entitle the defendant to a
trial byjury; and precludes every attempt to compel him t6 give
evidence againif himfelf. It declares, "that, in all profecutions for
rrninaloffences, a uiau has a right to be heard by hinfelf and
"his council, to demand the caufe and nature of his a'ccufation, to
, be confronted with the witneffes, to call for evidence in his fai'onr,
"and a fpeedy public trial, by an inpartialjuryof the country, without
th'e unanimousconfent of which jury he cannot be fbund guilty;
"nor can be be compelled to gve evidence agaikh/ bimflf ; nor can any

"man. be jufily deprived 6f his liberty except by the laws of the
"land, or the judgment of his peers."-Now, the prefent proceeding.againft the defendant is for a crhninal ffnce ; and, yet, if the
attachment iffues, the effential parts of this fe&ion mult be defeated:
for, in that cafe, the defendant cann t be tried by ajury; -and, according

SVPREmE COURT of PennfylVania.

cording to the praai

323

upon attachments, he will be compelled to

anfwer interrogatories;in doing which,

he muff either be guilty of

perj ury, or give evidence ag-ainfthifr . The proceeding by attachment is, indeed, a nox;elty in this country, except for the purpofe of
enforcing the attendance of witneffes. Thofe contempts which are
committed in the face of a court fland upon a very different ground.
Even the court of Admiralty (which is not a court of record) poffeffes a power to punifh them; and the reafon arifes from the neceffity
that every jurifdi6lion fhould be competent to proted itfelf from
immediate violence and interruption.
But contempts which are
alledged to have been committed out of doors, are not within this
reafon ; they come properly within the clafs of criminal offences;
and, as fuch, by the 9thfieT. of the bill of rights, they can only be
tried by a jury.
M'KEAN, C.7. Do you then apprehend that the 9 th fec7. of
the bill of rights introduced fomething new on the fubje& of trials?
I have always underftood it to be the law, independent of this fection, that the twelve jurors muff be unanimous in their verdi&, and
yet this fe6lion makes this exprefs provifion.
Sergeant faid, that he had difculfed the fubjeS as well as the
ittle opportunity afforded him would admit. He prefred the court
to give further time for the argument, 'or, at once, to dire& a trial.
This he contended was, at leaft, difcretionary; ' and, confidering
the Defendant's proteftation of innocence *,-his readinefs to give
ample fecurity for his future appearance, the magnitude of the que.
flion as arifihg from the conflitution, and its immenfe confequences
to the public, he thought a delay, that was effne.tial to deliberation
and juiftice, ought not to be refufed.
Heatly and Lewis, in fupport of the motion, contended, that
under the circumitances of the cafe, Ofwald's publication, whether
true or falfe, amounted to a contempt of the court, as it refpeaed
a caufe then depending injudgment, and refleaed upon one of the
Judges in his official capacity; that the argument of the adverfe
counfel went fo far as to affert, that there could be no fuch offence
as a cofitempt even inEngland, fince the very words inferted in the
conffitution o f.Pennfylvania, were ufed in the Magna Charta of that
kingdom; that, in truth, neither the bill of t.ights-nor the conflitution extended to the cafe of contempts, for they mean only to fecure to every citizen the right of exprefling his fentiments with a
manly freedom, but not to authorize wanton attacks upon private
reputation, or to deprive the court of a power effential to, its own
exiftence, and to the due adminiftratiun of juffice ; that the court
were as competent to judge of the fa& and the law, upon the infpe6lior of the publication in queftion, as the Chancellor wis in the
authority cited lrom Atkins; and that although the profecutor could,
perhaps, proceed either by indi&ment or information, yet that the
abufes of the Star Chamber had rendered the procefs by information
Ss I
odious,
Mr. O/wali repeatedly declared. that he meant no contempt ox the court in
what ho had publifhed.

1788.

324-

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

x98g. odious, andan attachment, which was fanlified by immemorial
- ufage, was the moft expeditious, and, therefore, the rooft proper
remedy for the evil complained of.
The CHIEF.JUSTIca delivered the opinion of the Court to the
following effe&, Judge BRYAN having hortly before taken his feat.
M'KEAN. C._ .- This is a motion for an attachment againil

Eleazer Ofwald, the printer and publiflier of the In'dependintGazetteer,
As a ground for granting the attachment, it is proved, that an affion for a libel had been inflituted
in this court, in which Andrew B¢rowne is the plaintiff, and Eleazer
Ofwald the defendant; that a queftion with refpe& to bail in that
.aaton, had been agitated before one of the Judges, from whofe
order, difcharging the defendant on common bail, tl-plaintiffhad
appealed to the court, and that Mr. Ojwald's aadrefs to the publir,
which is the immediate fubje& of complaint, relates to the "a.Hioa
thus depending before us.
The counfel in fupport of their motion, have argued, that this
addrefs was intended to prejudice the public mind upon the merits
of.the caufe, by propagating an opinioh that Browne was the in(trument of a l5arty to perfecute and delhoy the defendant; that he a6led
under-the particular influence of Dr. Rujh, whofe'brothrr is a judge
of this court;, and, in fhort, that from the ancient prejudices ot all
thejoidges, the defendant did not hland a chance of i fair trial.
imputations ot this kind are certainly calculated
t Affertions
"to
defeat and and
difcredit
the adminiftration of juftice. Let us, therewhether they ought to be confidered as a confore, enquire, firfit,
tempt of the court; and,fecondly, whether, if fo the offender is
*punifhable by attachment.
And here, I muft"be allowe4 to obferve, that libelling is a great
crime, whatever fentiments may be entertained by thoe who live
by it. Vith'Tefpe&t to the heairt of the hneller, it ismore dark and
bWfe than that of the alaflfin, or th.an his iyho commits a midnight
arfon. Iris true, that -Imay never dico-er the wretch who has
'burned my houfe, or fet fire to my barn ; but thefe loiTs are eafily
repaired, and bring Niith them no portion of ignominy or reproach.
But the attacks of the libeller admit nof of this confolation : -the injuries which are done to ch; raler and' reputationi feldom can be
cured,' and the molt - inocent man may in a'moment be deprived of
his good name, upon which; perhaps, he dcpends for all the pro.fperity, and all the happinefs of his life. To what tribunal can he
then r6fort? how (hall he .be tried, and by whom Ihall he be ac*quitted? It is in vain to objel, that thofe who know him will difregard tJe flander, fince the wide circulation of public prhits muft
endcr it impraaicable. to apply the antedote as far as the poifo t has
been extend-d. Nor can i't be fairly faid, that the fame opportunity is given to vindicate, which hos been cmployed to &eJaine him.;
for maay will read "ihe charge, who may never fee the. anfwer;.
and
bf the rit of 7u1v laft, No. 796.

-

SontIM E Coutr of Pinnfylvahia.

325

and while the obje& of accufation is publicly pointed at, the malicieus and malignant author, refis in the Aifhonorable fecurity of an
.abnonymous fighature. Where much has been faid, forething will
be believed; and it is one of the many'artifices of the libeller, to
give to his charges an afpe& of general fupport, by changing %nd
multiplying the 1lyle and name of his perforifiances. * But fhallfuch
things be tranfa&ed with impunitV in a free country, and among an
enlightened people? Let every honeft man make this appeal to his
heart and underilanding, and the anfwer muf be-no!
What then is the meaning of the Bill of rights, and the onflitutis
of Penjj'lvania, when they declare, -That the freedom of tthe prefs
fhall not be reitrained," * and " that the printing prefles fhall be
tree to every perfon who undertakes to examine tue pr.mceedings of
the legiflature, or any part of the governmnent, +"
1-Howevi ingenuity may to'rture the expreflions, thiere can be little'doubt of the
jull fenfe of thefe ie&ions: they give to every citizen a right of inveligating the condu& of thofe who are entrulled with thle public
bufinefs ; and they effe&ually. preclude any attempt to fetter the
prefs -by the inaitution of a licenfer. The fame principles were
fettled in England, fo lar back as the reign of WiFlliam the Third
and fince that time, we all know, there has been the freelt animadverlloi upon the condu& of the miniffers of that nation. But is
there any thing in the languag of the conflitution (inuch lefs in it$
fpirit and intention) which authorizes oneamal to impute crimes to
another, for which the law has' provided the mode oi trial, and the
degree of iunifltlment? Can it 'be prefumed that the flanderous
words, which, when fpokeh to a few individuals, would expofe the
fpeaker to punifhment, become facred,' by the authority of the conItitution, when delivered to the' public through" the more permanent
and difuifive medium of the prcfs? Or, •will it be faid, that the
confitutional right' to examin the proceedings-of government, extends to warrant an anticipation of the a6ts of the legiflature, or the
judgments of the court ? and not only to autkorize a candid tomnientary upon what has been done, but to permit every endeavour
to biafs and intimida(e with refpea to matters fil in fufpenfe?
The futility of any attempt to eltablifh 'a con'truafion of this fort,
muft be obvious to every intelligent mind. The true liberty of the
prefs is amply fecured by-permitting every man to publifh his opihions; but it is due to the peace and dig iity of focier; to enquire
into the motives of fuch publications, and to ditlinguith between
thofe which are meant for ufe and reformation, and' with an eye
folely to the public good, and thofe which are intended merely to
delude- and defare. To.the latter defcription, it is impoilible that
any good government thould afford prote&hon and impunity.
If, then, 'the libertyof the prels isregulated byany.ult prinziple,
therd'can be little doubt, that he, whio attempts to raife a prejudice
againft his antagonii.t, in the minds of thofe that .nuft ultimately
datcrmiae
Declar. ofiot.%f.i'i.
Coaftit. offtani C SS.

178.

326
378.
.0,.j

CASES

ruled and adjudged iii the

detenninethe difpute beiweern them; who, for that purpofe, reprefents himfelf as a perfecuted man, and afferts that hi. judgsare
infiueiced by paflion and prejufdice,-wilftilly leeks to corrupt the
fource; rnd to dilhorlor the adminiltration of juftice.
&ich is evidently the obje& and tendency of Mr. Ofwald's addrefs
to the public. Nor can that artifice prevail, which infinuates that
the decifion of this court will be the eief&of perfonal refentment ;
for, if it could, every man might evade the puni(hment due to his
Offences, by firfi pouring a torrent of abutle ul'on his judges, and
then afferting that they a& fron" pafflion, becalfe their treatment has
been fuch as would naturally excite refentment in the human difpo.
fition, But it mul be remembj!rd, that judges difcharge their
fiinaion under the folemn obligations of an oath: and, if their
vc-uta entitles them to their Riation, they cari neither be corrupted
by favour to fwerve frbm, nor influenced by fear to defert, their duty.
That judge, indeed, vho courts popularity by unworthy means,
while he weakefis his pretenfions, -diminifhes, likewife, the chance
Df attaining-his obje& ; and he will eventually find that he has facr~ficed the fbbftantjal blefling of a gcod confcience, in an idle' and
vifionary purfuit.
Upon ihe whole, we confider the publikation in queffion, as having the tendency which has been afcribed to it, that of'prejudicing
the public (a part of whom muff hereafter be fummdned as jurors)
with refpe& to the merits of a caufe depending in this court, and of
corrupting the adminifration of juffice: We are, therefore, unanimoufly Qf bpinion, on thefirfl point, that it ;tmounts to a contempt.
It only remains then to confider, whether the offience is punifha.
ble in the way that the prefent motion'has propoled.
I is certain that the proceeding by attachment is as old as the law
itf'lf, and no a& of the legiflature, or fe&iori of the conflitiition,
his interpofed to alter or fufpend it. Befides the fe&ions whichi
have been already read from the-conflitutfon, there is-another fecion
which declares, that "trials by jury fhall be as heretofire;" and
.furely it cannot be contended, that the offence, wpith which the deftendant is now charged, was heretofcre tried by that tribunal. If a
Man cpmmits an outrage inthe face of the court, what is there. to
be tried ?-what further evidence can be necefflary to convi& him of
the offence, than the aaual view of the Judges ? A man has been
compElled tp epter into fccurity for his-good behaviour, for gi;ing
the lie in the prefence of the Jidges in Ryfimifler-Hall.
On the prelknt occafion, is-not the prdof, from the infpe&ion 'of
the paper, as full ard fatisfa6lory'as any that can be offered? And
"wherher the publication amounts to a contempt, or not, is a point
cf lpw, which, afterail,.it is the province of the judges, and not of
the jury, to determine. Bing a contempt, if it is not punifhed immediately, how (hail the mifchief be corre6ted : Leave it to the cuIiomary torins of a trial by jury, and the caufe may be continued
long in fuflpenfe, While the party perfeveres in his mif.osdu&. The
iniurious

SUREMt COV1RT of Pennfylvana.

327

i'njuriots confequences might then be juffly imputed to the cofirt, 1788-.
for refufing to exercife their legal power in preventing them.
For thefe reafons we have no doubt of the competency of our guJurifdition ; and we think, that juftice and propriety call upon us
to proceed by attacment.
BRYAN, 7uflice, obferved, that he did not mean to give an opinion as to the mode of proceediing; but added, that he had always
entertained a doubt with refpe& to the legality of the procefs by
attachment, in fuch cafes, under the conftitutibn of Pennfylvanii.
M'KEAN, C. _7. Will the defendant enter into a recognizance
to anfwe.-p interrogatories, or will he anfwergrati.?
Ofwald. I will not anfwer interrogatories. Let the attachment
iffue. *

M'KEAN, C. 7. His counfel had better advife him to cenfider of it.
Sergeant faid that the defendant had not had time, even to perufe
what had been fworn againif him; for only Sunday had intervenes
fince the obtaining the rule to flhew caufe, and that was an improper day for applying to the records of the court.
M'KEAN, . 7. In criminal matters Sunday has always been
deemed a legal day. There has been as ample time for-confiderattor
as could well be allowed; the term will end to-morrow. Will lie
anfwer, or not,
Sergeant prayed the court would grant 'fill to-morrow morning to
form a determination on the fibje6t, and offered bail for the de--'
fendant's appearance at that time.
M'KRAN, 6. 7. Be it fo.. Let the bail be taken, himfelf in
fC.2oo, and one furety in the like fum, for his appearance to-morrow morning.
The Defendant appearing on the x5 th of _uly, in difcharge ef
his recognizance;

the CHIEF JUSTICE again a-ked, whether he

would anfwer interrogatories or not?
Bankfon, for the defendant, requeftkd, that the interrogatories
might be reduced to writing before he was called upon to determine.
M'KEAN, C. 7. Is that your advike to him? He muft n.'w fay
whether he will anfwer them or not; they will be filed according to
the uftage of the court, and all julf exceptions to them will be allowed.
Bankfon. He inftruis me to declare that lie will not anf%ver interrogatories; and he then began to urge, that there was no contempt'committed, but was told by the CHIEF JusTicE, that, a!
that
At this period of the caufe, I am informed by a gentleman of great learning
and accuracy, that the court called for the fheriff in order :o commit the defendant;
but the trmafition from that idea to the advice which fell from the bench, muft
have been fo infilantaneous, that, if I heard that call, I prefume I did tot confider
it as a part of the proceedings, and therefore omitted it in my notes. If it is Ofa"
imporcanco I am happy ia the opportunity of fupplying tbi2 d&fe .

329
1788.

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

that point had been determined by an unanimous opinion of the
four judges yefterday, it was not now open for argument;
Lewis faid, that as a mifreprefentation had been induflrioufly
fpread" abroad refpefting the condu& of the court, he thought it
proper, at this time. concif-ly to fate the real nature of the prefent
proceedings. It has been afferted thz:t the court were about to compel Mr. Ofwald to convi& himfelf of the offence with which he is
chaged : but the fa& is this, that it is incumbent upon the perfon
who fuggefis the contempt to prove it by difihtereflted witneffes
and then, indeed, thedefendant is allowed by his own oath to purge
and acquit himfelf, in fpite of all the teftimony which can poffibly
be produced againft him. It appears clearly, therefore, that Mr.
OjwaIs being called upon to anfwer interrogktories, is not meant
to. ef blifli his guilt (for that has been alreadi, done) but to enable
him to avoid the punifhment which.is the confcquence of it. The
court employ no conpuifion in this refpe&. Hemay either anfwer,
or not, as he pl6afes.: it he does anfwer, his fingle oath, in his own
favoir, will countervail the oaths of a thoufarnd witneffes; and if he
does not anfwer, iis filence corroborates the evidence whichf has
been offered of the contempt, and the judgmaent A the court muft
neceffarily follow.
M'KE, N, C. J7. Your (atement is certainly right, and the.
mifrenrefentation, which is attempted, mull either be the effea o
wickednefs, or ignorance.
Lewis now prayed; that the rule might be made abfoluie; but rernarked, that, according to the authorities, the court might- either
do that . or, as the defendant was prefent, they might proceed at
once to pafs fentence upon him.
M'KEAN, 0. 7. There can be no occafion, when the party is
prefent, to make -the rule for the attachrnxtt abfolute: the court
will proceed to give judgment.
BIYAN, ufllice. I was not here when the complaint was made
to the court, when the evidence in fupport of the motion was-produced, or the arguments againft it were delivered: I confider myfelf therefore totally incapacitated for taking any part in this bufinefs.
Lewis. We can immediately furnifh the court with the proofs.
BRYAN, JUflice.
Can you furnifi me, likewife, with Mr. Sergeant's arguments ?.
Lewis faid, that he had not penetration enough to difcover any
argument in what had been faid for the defendant; and having again
read all the evidence which had been produced, he recapitulated
what he had before faid in fupport of the motion.
age, the under-lheriff, was then called upon to prove, that the
writ in the a&ion ot Browne vs. Ofwald.had been in his poffeffion,
at leaft twelve days before it was ferved ; and that the delay in fering it arofe at firft, from the defendiint's being at Baltimore; and,
afterwards, from his not being at bome when the witnefs had fepehtedly called upon him.

SUPREME COURT

of Pennfylvana.

329

BRYAN, 7Uftice.. I lill fay, that not having heard what has
been offered in extenuation of the offence, I am incompetent" to
join in any opinion refpe6ting the punifhment. I cannot furely be
fufpe6ted of partiality to libellers: I have had my fhare of their male,.
volence. But, ,it is true, I have not fuffered much; for thefe
trifles do not wrankle in my mind.

The CHE.JuSTICE pronounced the judgment of the court in
the following words:
M'KEAN, C. .7.-EleazerOfwald: Having ye.terday.cofidered
the vharge againif you, we were unanimoufly of opinion, -that it
a contcmptof the court. Some doubts were figgefted,
amounted ti)
whdther, even a contempt of the court, was punifhable by attachment: but, not only my brethren and myfeif, but, likewife, all
the judges of England, think, that without this power no court
could poflibly exift;-nay, that-no contempt could, indeed, be committed againfi us, we fhould befo truly ,.onte ptible. The law upon
of immemorial antiquity; and there is not any period
theflubje& is"
when it can be" aid to have ceafed, or difcontinued. On this point,
therefore, we entertain no doubt.
But fome difficulty has arifen with refpe& to our fentence; for,.
on the one hand, we have been informed of your circumfiances, and
on the other, we have feen your condu6 : your circumftances are
Since, however,
finall, but your offence is great and perfifled in.
the queftion feems to refolve itfelf into this, whether you fhall bend,
to the law, or the law 1hall bend to you, it is our duty to determine
that the former (hall be the cafe.
Upon the whole, therefore, THE COUrT pronounce this fe,
tence;-That you pay a fine of rol. to tle Comnonwealth ; that yotx
be imp rifoned for the fpace of one month, that is, from the i5tl.
day of July ta the r 5 th day of Auguft next ; and, afterwar4s, till
the fine and colts are paid.-Sheriff he is in your cuftody. *
LESHEP.
1 The fentence, on the point of imprifonment, was entered upon the recordisr
tiefpae of one month, without taking notice of the explanatory words ufed by the
Court.
At the expiration of the legil month, (z8 days) Mr. Osoald demande4

Lis difcharge; but with this the SheriFf who had heard the fegtence pronounced,
His Honor, rcrefufed to comply, 'till he had coafulted the C eerF JUsTICE.
menmbering the meaning anud words of the Court, told this officer, at firR, that he
was bound to detain his prifoner 'till the morning of the Isth of AuguI; but, hav-

ing fhortly afterwards examined the record, he wrote to the Sheriff, that Mr. Oswald,
agreeably to the entry there, was entitled to his difcharge.
On the 5 th of Sptember 1783, Mr. Oswald prefented a memorial to the General
.. jgmbty, in which he Rated the proceedings againf, him, complained of the deci-.

fioe of three of the Judges of the Court, in the principal cafe, and of the diredtion
ofithe ObIEFx
JUsTIC E to tha Sheriff, by which, he alledged, .his conanctment had
at'erwarads been illegally protraded :-finally calling upon the boufe to determine,
- "'bether

the Judges did not infringe the con(Litutiol i

T t

ir;xq terms in the few.
"tence

i7 88"

