SUPREME

COURT of PennfflVani.

-

69

Vdgedin court, and the regiftring of it in the Prothonotary's office
(as is alirays done) is a ih~clcnt recording within the a&* Sergeant and Ingerfd oppofedthe reading a deed in evidence, upon
this i:rou d : that by the* at&9 of affembly laft
mentioned, all dIeeds
not rcordedin the Rolls Oiice,according to the particular direaions
of that aI, are declared void as againl fubfequnt purchafers, and
which the defenant
as be!.
it was
notfheritf's
recorded
till under
ajiertherefore,
though this claimed,
deed was"ct
dated
e the
deed,
,ards, they infied it was void, and could be no evidence at all.Sedtitsn aiocatur- And M'Kr.AN V. 7. faid, we cannot hinder
/he rea;ding of a deed under tf:1, but wrhat ufe will be made of it
i. another thing: adn he cite .c
e of
uFt'.
LsrdGrey 6..

Ji~d. 44..

W'Icox etal, vw is

IIEN aR

fT HE cafe was thi. :-In the clof of the year 777, one St hn
whc tckhoufe arrivedt at idhiadpia from
erpInt, e
t roops of
the .king Gof a'.Bea: bei. at that time in p
bedion
of the'city.
e
ie'.j
brought
th g
itn i a large .nd v.luable cargo of falt, which
he orfed n rho wareh-fe of one Pritchard, and after a
Snort
flay
in Phikdeiphia, he wcjnt to Xew-, rk, (,then likewife in the potLffion of the Br't;:b troops) confignLoig the falt to Metffs. .7nes,Back-

ize, and P'dik, of Pladel. ia, with direionsthat they ihould
felt it ifor him, at the beft price they could get, but not under a 6o-

lar.perbufbeL Backhcur, one ol the confignees, was no relation
whatever of Bhkbsuji the owner.-The confignees, accordingly,
fold part of the falt to different perfons, and on the 1 7 th of June
1778, they fold the remainder to J;Vilcsx, the plaintiff. On the
i8 th of 7une I."78, (the d..y fucceeding the fale) the Briij7b troops
,evacuated Philadelpbia. In 7anuary 1779, it was 1eized for the coinmonwealth as the pioperty of the enciy. And the quefiion was,

whether the falt was the property of tIF;Icox, the plaintiff; or be-

xame forfeited to the State of Pennfyvania, as being the property of
a Bt:tl./b fubje& ?
It is to be obferved, that no money was paid by. FJ7lcox to the
<onlignees at the time of the fale, though the key 0f't/:t fre was dlisvered to hin. The price of the falt .was to be a dollar per bufhel ;
2nd the agreement, at the fale, was, that if the falt fliould be in the
city when the Amer'can army entefed it, then the money 1hould be
paid for it within (I think) two or three months ; but that if the
falt fhoild be defroyed or taken by the Brit/h"troops, in that event,
the contra& fhould be null and void. Thefe conditions were an)nexed to the agreement from a general appreheRfion, that the BriSee x St. L. 78. 52o.

t.-Staid ,p. 6.

MDiQ'. Lcfce vcrfus MDil.

1792.-

70
t782.

C.si

s ruled and adjudged in thc

/b,on evacuating the city, would either deftroy fuch flores as they
(lid not want, or take with them thofe.articlc which they might
ftand inneed of.
Thee fg&s, likewife, aDpeaied in evidence on the.trial ; that the
confignee had been applied to by one of the plaintiffs five or fix
.days before the evacuation, to purchafe the falt ; that for three or
four weeks before the evacuation, the Citizens of Philadet ha fuFL
pofed it was intended; that thp whole of the Briti/h army did not
finally leave the city till the morning of the i8th, though their
lhipping, for a fortnight before, had been, from time to time, dropping down the river; that the price of falt at that time was only
three fhillingspet7-Vhfif.r; and that tk, plaintiffs have fince, to wit, in
.Juguf 1778, paid the.fiill value of thefalt, at the rate of a dollar
per bulhel, to J"ones and Co.
On behalf of the State of Pennfylvania three points were made:
rft. That the contr,& between J'ilcox and 7ones and Co. was not a
compleat one, in as much as no money was.paid, nor any poffeffion
delivered of the falt. If, therefore, it was ht a compleat contraa,
the falt was the property of a Brii.[b fubje&, and, confequently,
forfeited to the flate by the rules of war, and the law or nations.ad. That admitting the contraa to be compleat, yet it was made
to defraud the ftate of the forieituire, and in contemplation of the
intended evacuatiorl.-3d. That if it was incompleat, though t6 be
made compleat by a fubfequent event (to wit, the tntry of the
,Intrican army into'the city, and the falt Rill remaining) yet the
right of the nate to the falt attached, if not fooner, at leaft, as
foon (to wit, when the .merican army entered) as the right of the
plaintiffs ; and that, therefore, by the rules Qf law, the right of
the fRate muff be preferred to the private claim,
Itf. Point. To' the firft point it was argued ;-that all contraffi
Ihould be mutual ; thateach of the contrading parties fhoultd have
an equal remedy againft the other for the performance of the contra&, or for damages on the non-performance of it ; that, in tbis
.afe, Backhoufe being an alien enemy, was entitled to no afion
againrit the plAintiffs, but depended entirely on their liberality and
'honor for payment of the m6ney, in' cafe the fglt Ihould not be defiroyed or taken away by the Britilh troops,
i ft. Refp: pro: Zuer.-At the end of he war Bachhouft will be
entitled to his a'ion againft the plaintiffs for recovery of the *money
due on the contrad ; becaufe, though all rights and credits belonging-to the fubje&s of any power at war with another, are during
the war fufpended, as againrf the fubje&s of that power, with
whom their fovereign is at war, itill on the reftoration ;f peace,
thofe rights and credits are revived, and the fubje&s of each nation, are in the tame fituation with refpe& to debts duito and from
each other, as they were before the war.
ad. Point. This was argued on both 1'des, from the various circumfiances which appeared in the caufe ; the counfel for the flate
c-ontending, that the ngture of the tranfaaion was evidently to trick
ihe.

Surnrit CotrxT of Penn/ylvania.
ta fRate out of the forfeiture, and the advocates for the plaintiffs
infiffing that it was a banafide fale.
3 d. Point. Many cafes were cited, on behalf of the flate, to
fne.w the right of the flate, ought to be preferred to that of an individual, when they both accrue at one and the fame.time.
3. -Refp. pro ker. The contra& was compleat, though liable to
be defeated by a iubiequent event; and the delivery of the falt was
alfio compleat by the delivery of the key of the flore in which it
was depoilited. The price to be paid, was, indeed, th_- objeft to
be affal.ed by the fublequent event, and not the falt itfelf. The
diffin6dion.between a condition precedent, and a condition fubfequent was taken to fhevw, that the property leing once veffed in
the bargainee, could not be taken out of him, by any condition to
be performed afterwards, which was impollible, repugnant, or illegal ;*and it was urged, that although the right of the Ilate would
have attached firfi, it the plaintiffs had not obtained a prior polfeflion by the acual delivery of the falt; yet, that having a polfefflon before the A4merican army entered, -lid even before the evacuation of the Brifb, no fuch right could pntiibly a-tzch.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered a charge :o the jury of the following purport.
MKLAN, 6'. J7. As the council or both fides have -quoted many
cafes, but have not appealed to the court for their opinion on the
different points of law, the jury muff take the whole together, and
form their own judzment upon the ftrbje&E.
When the Britijb army evacuated Philadelphia, there wgs a
debate in Congrtfs, vvhether all the property found in the city,
and belonging to the king of Great Britain, or any of his fubje6ts, fhould appertain to the United States, or to the State of
Pennfylvania only. It was at length agreed, however, that all public property, fuch as cannon, artillery, &c. hould belong to the
United States, and, the private property of individuals, fhould belong
to the State of Pennfylvania.
An alien enemy hai no right of alion whatever during the war;
but by the la* of nations, confirmed by univer il ufage, at the
end of the war, all the rights and credits, whichi the fubjeas of
either power had againft the other. are revived ; for, during the
war, they are not extinguithed, but merely fufpended. If, alfo,
a conquered country is ce&d. the old polfeffors are entitled to their
eftates ; and when any country is cionquered, the poleffors are not
,deprived of their eftates, but only change their mailers. This is
clearly the care between two independent powers; but how will
the cafe be between this country and Great Britain at the clore of
the war? -Why, had we been conquered, our lives and all our property would have been the forfeit ; but even as the bufinef5 now
Rands, the fubje~ts of .Great Britain may, perha s, claim a revival of the debts due to them from the Citizens ot .dmerica, whilit
we, by their a6ts of parliament, are debarred of the like privilege.
1~is hard that the people of ,merica fbould, during the war, recil.e

!7 2"

72

1723"
,

CASES ruled and adjudged in th.

ceive continental money for fpecie, and, at the end of it, 6e de..
prived of the debts due to thm from abroad, v,'hilit they 2re obliged to pay the debts due from them to Bri.Z ttbje&.. Unitfa o
fome care is taken, this m:.y be the cafe I wv' u'd hope, thcreforc,
that tile affemblies of the different flates will ti.ink lerioily of it,
and, with a view it may be attende-d to, I have given this hint
upon the' prefent public occafion.
With refpe& t o the cafe before the ccrrt, the CHI IF JUSTICE
feemed ftrongly with the plaintiffi, and the jt.ry fou:d a vwrd
for them accordingly.

-Lewis and ;T7y*, n for the plainfiffis-Brad'rd and Ingerfc for the
defendant.

April Term,

KENNEDY

A

1783.

verf'Zs F'UR".

CONVEYANCE was made to A. in triuf for B. and F.

i1 brought an ejeclment on his own demife. Blair contended
ihat the demife ought to have been laid in the name of A. in-asmuch as the leg .1 eftate was in him.
But by ATLEE Y7uftict, (M'KEAN C?.7.being abrent) the demie
by B. is wyell enough. SAre have no Court o Equity here; and,
therefore, unlefs the c etui que truj could bring an eje&~ment in his
own nate, he would be
remedy, in the cafe ot an obflinate

