SthIZMX

COUZTof pewifyvna

53
1781.

RESPUELICA verfui

SAMUEL CHAPMAN.

B Y a proclamation, dated the 15 th 7une 1778, iffued by the
S.LJI Supreme Executive Council, in purfuance of the aft of AfTerbly,- palfed the 6th of March preceedinz, for the attainder of divers
traitors, &c. the prifoner had been rcuired to fuijrender himfelf
oa the .flof lugujt following, &c. or to be attainted of high treafort
agreeably to that a&. The time allowed ior his furrender being
elapfed ; the Attorney General filed a fuggeftion, in the ufual form,
flating that Samuel Chapman the prifoner was the perfon required
by the proclamation to furrender himfelf, &c. th:.t he had not
furrendered himfelf, &c. that he was therefore attainted ; and this
he was ready to verify, &c. The Chief Jufice then afked the
prifoner, what he had to fay, why execution thould not be awarded
againf him.
Upon which the faid Samuel Chapman, the prifoner, faith, ore
tenus, that he was born, and hath ever remained and continued
a fubje& of the. king of Great Britain, and is now a prifoner of
war; and that -he is not, nor hath ever been afubjeOl or inhabitant
,of this Commonwealth; nor hath he, nor he never had, any real
cfate in this Commonwealth ; neither hath he at any time owed
allegiance thereto: JFherefire he prays that execution may not be
.warded againf him, &c.
Tho 1trney General replied, that the faid Samuel Chapman, the
prifonre was an inhabitant andJiubje of this Commonwealth, &c.
and that be did owe allegiance thereto, &c. MPhereupon iifue was
joined.
The evidence upon the trial at this iffue was, that the prifoner
was, born in Buc's County in this State, and that be had rifided
;here until the -26th day .f December 1776, at which time he
departed and joined the enemy. Whether, upou" thefe fa&s he
was to be coofidered as an inhabitant end jubjedi ot the Commonwealth of Pennfylvania, at .the time of his departure, was the
great quelftion to be decided,
-His counfel argued that on the z6th Decenmer, 1776, there *as
no government eitablilhed in Pennlvanza, from which he could
receive protecion ; and confequently, there was none to which he
could owe allegiance-protetion and allegiance being political
obligations of a reciprocal nature. The dodrine of perpetual allegiance to be found in the books, applies only to eflabhihed and
fettled governments; not to the cafe of withdrawing from an old
government, and ereffing a diftin6l one. Then every member ot
the community has a right of eleffion, to refort to which he pleafes;
and even after the new fyflem is formed, he is entitled to exprefs his
diffent ; and, diffenting from a majority, to reire with impunity
unto anothe, country. U pon this principle, it was affertcd that.
tho prifoner never wis a fubjed of the State of Pe~infylvania; and
th =

54

7r.
•v.-..J

CASs ruled anid adjudged in the

the following narrative of the meaFifes purfued in organizing thd
conflitution, was delivered in fupport of the affertion.
The. firft a& of legiflation, under the conflitution was pafled on
the 21fl january,

1777.

On the 281h day of the fame month, the

laws of the late Province, with certain reftridions, were, from and
afterthe Joth day of February then next, tQ be revived ; and on
the 4 th f Mfarch following, the firfi Pr/idenr and flice-Pr§t:dent
were eleded ; when alfo, the firft minutes were made on the records of the SupremeEecutive Coundil. So that the prifoner's de"parture from this State, on the 26th December, 1776, was near a
month antecedent to any legiflative ad ; and near three months
before, all the branches of the government %were organized and
pxut into adual operation.-Befides, the a& for the revival of the
laws, exprefsly admits that they were not in force from the i4th
May, 1776, until the iith Febryary, 1777; and the a& for declaring what thall be trealbn, which did not ' afs till the laft men.tioned date, excludes every idea of retrole&; dedlaring only,
" that All perfons nou inhabiting, &c. within ihe limits of the
"State
"fame

of Pennfylvania ; or 'that fhall voluntarily come into the
hereafter to inhabit, &c. do owe andjhall pay allegiance,

c &c."-The prifoner, at the time ofpaing this a,

was . not

an inhabitant ; nor has he fince voluntarily become one.

He

does not, therefore, owe allegiance to the State, and cannot be denominated a fubje& of Pennfylvania.-With 'refpe& to -the ad of
the 6th March, 1778, on the authority of which the prefent proclamatioi iffued, it is evidently an expofao law, and as fuch,
contrary to the words; and fpirit of the Conffitution. But if the
prifoner never was a fubje& of the Co'rhmonwealih ofPennfylvania,
this law cannot operate againit him in thd decifiori of the iflue before the court.
The Counfel for the prifoner cited the following authorities in
the courfe of their argument: Puff. 639. Lock. on Gmy. 229. i68.
227". fatt. 23. 25. h. 3. P; °9. Burimaqui 27. 33. 1 Blackfy;
45. F/?er C. L. 55. Harvey's car.
The Attorney General flated the queftion to be, in fad, whether
Pennfylvan'a was a Commonwealth on the 26th day of December,
76-? By the declaration of independence, on the 4 ih 'Yuly, 1776,
every State in the union was folemnly declared to be free and
independent. But even before that-period Congrefs had recommended, that neW governmen.ts fhould be framed, adequate to the
exigency of the public affairs ; and -a Council of Safety, with
other temporary bodies, a&ually difcharged the fundionsof the
State. See journals of Congrefs xoth and i 4 th May, 1776. *4 th/
of une, 1776.* 16th J7une, 1776. 24th do.* and Ju," i 4 th.
n confequence of the declaration of independence, however, a
General Convention affembled at Philadelphiaon the 15 th july, 1776 ;
and on the 28th of Septenberfollowing, agreed to that focial compad
under which the people of this State are now united. It appears
thait a quorum of the legiflative body, created by the conaitution
th~v

SUPREME

COUr of Pennflvana,

5

thus eflablifhed, met on the 2 th' f Xvemer, r776, oi'd then
7
chofe their Speaker and Clerk. r Min. A.4 . Onthe ficceed- 14..
ing day the clerk wa. qualified, feveral public oflicers wcre appointed, and votes were entered into refpeiing the colleion of,
fines from non-afociators, and the ena&ing of a ,litia-lav. id.
On the "3 oth of Xovember, the hoiffe having made fundry orders relative to the Mikilitia, adjourned till the Tf of December; and on
'the Sth of that month, when the houfe were again aiembled,
a committee was appoiiited to bring in the draft of a llitia-law,
-id.ioo--With refpe6t. to the Executive Cuncil, it.
is true, that body
did not enter upon any official bulinefs, till the beginning of Aarcl,
1777; but its members were chofen at the fame time with the
members 6f the Legitlatnre.
From this recapitulation, it appears, that, even before the eflablifhmerlt of the conftitution, a government under the authority of
the people was adminiltered by councils, committees, and conventions. After the eftablithment of the cdnititution, however, the legiflative (which is the fovereign) body affembled and proceeded to
difcharge its duties; and it was not necefliry to the exiftence of the
government, either that they fliould have ena&ed a law, or that
-the Suprme Executive Council Ihould have been convened.
Under every chafige of the government., "Samuel Chapman, remained here till the 26th day of December, 1776 ; and, at that time,
-he was certainly a fubje& of the flate of Pennfdvania, under the
conflitution agreed to on the 28th day of -Septenher preceding, whatever doubts may be entertained with'refpet to the former eflablifhments. That tztis was, likewife, the fenfe of the legiflature, is
abundantly evident from the a& on which the proclamation is
founded; for, Mr. Galloway, and others, who joined the enemy in
the fall of 1776, are there" confidered as filbje&s of Pennf/yh'aznia;
ana all the flates are clearlv deemed to have been free and indep~endent from the declaration publiflied by Congrefs on the 4 th of July
in that year.
The Attorney-General, to fhew the definition of a nation, the relation which a citizen bears to the fRate- zitid the natural connexion
between a flate of fociety and the inflitutionof a government, cited
the following authors: /tt. 92. id B r. c A9.fea. -2i id
d.pta.
.r.. p. y. id. fed. 4- Burlem. -25. 1. Mac . COm. 46. 4.48.. 213.
Vatt.p.i5.fta. 26. ;d. 19. fe. 3&1,
THE CHIET JUSTICE, delivered a learited and circunftantiil
charge to the Jury. After flating the peoclamation, the iffue, and
the evidence, be.proceeded as follows.
M'KAN Chief "filice:-The queftion that is to be decided on
the fa&s before uc, is, whether Samuel Cha-man, the prifoner at the
bar, ever was a fubje& of this Comi-nonwelth ? The reifon which
has been principally urged to take him ouf of that defcription, is
thip. on the 26th day of December, in the year 1776, when he withdrevi from Pennfyiv,ia, no government exiftdd to which he conlid
owe allegi-tnce. as. a fubje-t.-I uhll, in the firflt
place, confidzr hn'v

56
f781.
'

CAsEs rule4 and adjudged in the

far this defence, under the circuift:nces of the cafe. would avail
the prifoner upoii an indifment for High Trtafin.
The Ptornry-General, has referred to the declaration of independence, on the 4 th of .uy," r776, when the freedom and for-reignty
of the feveral Oates were announced to the world; and alib, to a
rfolution of Congrefs recommending the formation of fuch governments, as were adequate to the exigency of the public affairs. The
lilter.fates pnrfued different modes of complying with this recommendation. The citizens of CnneBicut, ew-HiampJbire and RhodrIjand, confidered themfelves in a fituation fimilar to that which
occurred in England, on the abdication of .amts the fecond ; and,
wanting only the form of i Royal Governor, their refpefive fyftems
o f government have fIill been continued: while the other flates
adopted temporary expedients, till regular conflitutions could be
formed, matured, and organized.
And here it is contended, that, prior to the conflitution under
which we now live, the flate of t'ennfyl.vania was governed by a
council of fafety, and committees. But to this, it is anfwered, that
until laws were paifed by a competent legillative power, no government could be faid toexift; and, as the a4 of the 28th of "January.
'779, for the revival of the laws, virtually declares that they were
fufpended from the 14th May,"I 7 76, till the iith February, 1777,
it is infcrred, that during that period, no allegiance was due, and
no treafon could be committed.
Although I think this point immaterial to the prifoner, fine a
government might have exifled, and yet not.be of fuch a nature as
to afFe& him, it cannot be denied, that a kind of government, independent of Great Britain, was adminiftered in Pennfylvania, antecedent to the eftabliihment of the prefent conflitutioni. The powers
of fovereignty were then lodged with Congrefs, under ;vhofe authority a council oi fafety had been ele&ed by the people, and were
employed, in conjun&ion with other committees, to condu& the
-war, and to fecure, as far as fo imperfe& a fyflem could, the rights
of life, liberty, and property, within this f'ae. It is certain,-indeed,
that a formal compa& is not a neceffary foundation of government;
for, if an individual had affumed the fovereignty, and the people
had affented to it, whatever limitations might afterwards have been
irpofed, fill this would have been a legal eftablifhment-No exprefs provifion, however, has been at any time made, for defining
what fhould be treafon againfl thole temporary bodies; but it may
be well enough to obferve, that. treafon is a crime known to the
Common-law.
Afterwards, w6 find, that a GentralConvention, cle6led by the
people, met on the 1 5 th day of J7u, 1776, for the exprefs purpofe
of framing a new government; and during the feffions of this body,
its membeis, colle&ively, affumed the powers" of making ordinances, of appointing members of Congrefs, and of defining HikI,
Trafon, and its punifhment-All their proceedings and injun&ions,
except the ordinancr refpe&ing treafon, were approved and executea

57

SUPREME COURT OF Penffyluzrna;

cuteJ; and the Conflitution whkh they eventually agreed upon,
was incontrovertibly a diffolution of the government, as far as related to the powers of Great Britain, but not in relation to the
powers which had been before exercifed by councils and committees.
The dttorny-Genral has urged that, at leAfA, as roan as the Government, under the new conftitution was formed, which he fays
was on the 28th of November, 1776, the members of council being
then chofen, and the legiflature alually aflmbled, the overeignty
of the fiate was complete, and allegiarice foilowed by a necelfary
confequence; without the intervention ot any pofitive law. But
the advocates for the prifoner again obje&, that the guvernment cantoot be faid to be eftabliffied; until there is a meedtixof all its parts,
and that as the Executive Council never met till the 4th of Marchi
X777, the ftatt was incapable of affording proie&ion, andi therefore,
was not entitled to allegiance, before that time.
On this occafionr the fentiments of feveril emineht Cisillians
have been read td us; not as authorities binding upon our judgment, but as a means of information derived Irom the great learning and abilities of the refpe&ive writers, and, .priricipally incleedi
on account of the intrinfic weight of the reafons by which their
do&rines are fupported. Locki fays, that when the Executive is
totally diffolved, there can b6 no trtaj'on; for laws aie a mere nullity;
unlels .there is i power to execute them. But that is not the cafe
at prefent iri agitation; for before the meetihg of Council in Marehi
1777, all its members were chofen, ,and the legiflature was completely organized:, to that there did antecedently exift a power
competent to redreft grievances, to afford prote&ion, and, generally,
to execute the laws; and allegiance being naturally due to fichi a
power, we are of opinion, that from the mometit it was cfeated, the
crime of High I reafon might have been committed by any perfon,
who was theri a fubjea of the Commonwealth- The a&l of the
i ith of Fthruary,1777 eaprefsly authorifes this opinib ; for, we find
it there faid, I- That all and eveiy perfon and perfons (except priftoners at war) now inhabiting &c, within the limits of this itate ;
h or that fhall voluntarily come into the fame hireafler to inhabit,
&c: do owe, and fhall pay allegiance, &c." ? This, therefore, contradi&s the idea, fuggefted by the advocates for the prifoner, that allegiance was not due till the meeting of the executive council on the
4 th of March tnfuing; and, although he cannot be conviaed upon
that a&, yet allegiance being due frbm the 28th of November, i7 7 6,
when, as I have already obferved the legiflature was convened,
and the members of council were appointed, treafon, which is
nothing more -than a criminal attempt to deroy the exiftence
ot the givernment, might certainly have been committed, before
the different qualities of the crime were defined, and its punifhment
leclared by a pofitive law. i Blackft. Com. 46.
Having thus difmiiffed the preliminary queftion, whether the prfrner's defence would'avail him upon anindi&tment for High Trta-

H

I

.

58

CAsEs ruLd and adwjudged in the

781. f_n, I .ball proceed to enquire, if there are any circumfances thac
take his cafe out of thegeneral opinion exprefied by the court upon
that oint.
The a& for the revival of the laws. pafred the 28th df 7anuar),
1777, was intended, Ltnink, merely to declare, that ihofe lawso
vhich were originally ena~chd -under the authority of Georgethe
7h'ird, ccafed any longer to derive their virtue. and validity from
that fource,. But there-is great inaccuracy in penning the aft; for,
though it would feem, by the former part of the fecond fe&ion, to
be the fenfe ofthe legiflaturc, that fiom the -a .th of M"ay 1716, to the
roth of Felruar), M77,
the operation of all the aas of affembly
fhould'be fufpended ; yet, in the clofe of the fame feai6n, obedience,
to thole aiEs, to the common law, and tofo much oftheftatuteiaw of
England, as have hzreiqrrebeer in force in Pennfyvtnia,. is, with
fome exceptions in point of flyle and form, exprefsly enjoined. We
may, however, lairly infer fror the gpneral tenor of the a&e, that
tr'ofe who framed it, thought the feparation from Great Britain
worked a dilolition of all government, and that the force, not
only of the a&s of Affhmbly, but of the common law and ftatute
law of England, was a&ually extinguifhcd by that event.
This, therefore, neceffarily leads to the confideration of a very
important fubjc&. In dvil wars, every man chules hi. party; but
,geierally that fide which prevails, arrogates the right of treating
thofe who are vanquifhed as yebels. The cafes which have been
produced upon the prefent controverfy, are of an old govenment
eing diffol-"ed, and the people afl'embling, in order to form a new
ne. ?aWln fuch inflances occur, the voice 6f the majority muf

t-m.,

be conchufive, as to the adoption of the new fylem ; but, all the

-vriters agree, that the minority have, individually, an unreftrainable
3ight to remove with their property into another country; that a
3eafobnble time for that purpofe ought to be allowed; and,
in 1hort, that none are fubje&s of the adopted government, who
Lave not freely affented to it. What is a reafonable time for departure, may, perhaps, be properly left to the determination of a
court and jury. but -Ahether a man fhould be fuffered to join a
party, or nation, at open war with the country he leaves, is a quefion'of fingular magnitude. 'I he ground is hitherto untrodden, but
there is Juch app..rnnt injuflice in the thing itfelf, that I am inclined
;o think, it would amount to an a& of treafon. Puff.ndor 639.
Thu., is not, however, the fituation of the prifoner. Pennflvavia, was not a nation at war with another nation; but a country in
a itate of civil wear; and there is no precedent in the books to
lhew hhat might be done in that care; except indeed, where a
prince has fubdutd the pecple ,,Cho took arms aga'inft him, before
they had formed a regular government, which is, likewife, inapplicable here.
But this difficulty feems to vanifla by having recourfe to the opinion of the kegiflatlire, in their a& of 'the i ith Fehruarv, 1777;
hur, when dcfcriing from whom ,llegiance is due, they fpeak only
of

guPyRMz Coux-? of Pennfylvania.

-59

*f perfons then inhal iting the ftate; or who fhould thereaftr become
its inhabitants. Hence a defcrimination is evidently made betw.'e.n
thofeperfons, and fuch as had previoufly joined the enemy ;--neaning that this ele&ion to -adhere. to the Brit/b governnent,'
fhould not exppfe the party to any future punifhment. It is true,.
that there are pot any negative words to this effe&; but, taking
the a& for the revivl of the law alfo into confideratiqn, we think
"the defire 4nd intention of the legiflature fufficiently appears ;o have
been, to allow I choice of his party to every man, until the xi th of
February, 1777 ; and that no a& favouring of treafbn, done before

12781

that period, fihold incur the penalties of the law.
. This conftruffiorl, it may be faid, is favorable to traitors, and
tedlds to the prejudice of the Commonwealth.- But we r-innot be
influenced by obfurvations of a political nature in the expofition of
the law ; it is our duty to feek for, and to declare, the true intention Qf the Legiflature; the policy of that intcrition, it is their dut'y
to confider. The fentiments which I have now delivered, I always
.entertained. On the i jth of Juguft 1779, the Exetutive Council had
fixteen or feventeen perfons in their power, who, thouga"*not at-

tainted, were in circumftances finrilar to the Prifoner's. On that occafion. I was confulted, and gave the fame opinion; but with great
diflidence, owing to the novelty of the queftion. Thofe perfons
were, accordingly, treated as Prifoners of ,VAr.
But there is yet qnother 1mRnortant p.oin ;o.he examined in the
cafe beforc us. By an a&, fubI-equent to all thofe which have been
mentioncd, it is declared, " that all and every perfon and peifons
b"
eingiubjets or inhabitants of this flate, or thofe who have real,
eftate in this Commokwveilth.,
bhona..adorejots, ajrd knowingly

Oi and willingly aid and a ltlthe enemiiies of this. Siate, or of the
United States of America, by having joined their armis -Aithin this
"St;-te,
-or. elfewhcre, or -who hereafter fhall d.) t*ie f.'me, and1

"

whom the Supreme Erecutivt (1ouncl
of this State,, by their Proclamiations to be iffued under the State foal, duing the continuance of the war with the King of Great-Br'ta:n, (hall name
"
and require to furrender themfelves, by a certain d.,y threin to be
rnentidned; fa J bme, or onet of thle jjiifioes of *the fipreme
"'court, &c. and fhall not render themfelves accordingly sic. iall
from and after the day to therh to tbeprefixed by fucn proclamation fand and be attainted of -high treafon to all intents and pur" pofes, &c."-Under the authority of this claufe, the Prifoner %(as.
duly r-quire.d by proclamation to furrerider hinfdlf ; and, therefore,
his care feems to cone properly within the a 6 t.
Generally fpeaking, ex pfl faRo laws are unjuft and ir, ropr;
but there may certainly'be occafions, 'vhen they become n ceiiry
for the fafety and prefervation of'the Comnor'wea1:ti'; a*nd aithough no Legiflature bad' previouily met, Yet the aiermbly that
paffed this liw, if they were impreid with the ne&,fitv oftihe c4fie,
had"incontrovertibly a riglit to de-are any pert ,na travtoc, i'ho had
one over to the enemy, and iLl adi'ered to them. ' ne -validity
H2
and
"
"

CAsts ruled and adjudged in the

6o
1781.
L..

and operation of the law, however, the prifoner is now pretludea
from controverting, if, at any time before the date of the proclamation he was a fubje& of the'State of Rennfylvania.
itlere, then, the matter refis. Had, the i;iae been in the diljunl7ive,
the prifoner would cletrly have come within the defcription of an
,nhJ.bant of Prnnfykvania; but when the wordfuije1? is annexed,
it means a fiibje~tion to fomne fovereign ower, and is not barely
conneaed with the idea of territory-it refers tW one who owes obedience to the laws, and is entitled to partake of the ceions into
public ofice. On this point, therefore, we muft again advert to
the a& of Affembly, declaring what ha!l be treafon, which has no.
retrofpea, ind to the a& far the revival of the laws, which implies a
6
fufpenfion of all the laws from the 14th of My T77 ,to the Yith of
F. 17 7 7 - If there were ro !aws to be obeyed dMting that period,
the prifoner could not be deemed a fubje of tbe State of Pennfyl,ania on the 26th da-y of Deceinher 1776. Whether the Legiflature
meant to include this cafe we will not pofitively determine ;--it is a
pew one, and we ought to tre:'d cautioufly and fecurely : But, at all
eyents. it is better to err on the fide of mercy, than of firiat juflice,
The jury found a yerdi& of not Guilty.

Septemier Term, 1781.

RESPULICA

T

verfrus JoHUA

BUFFIINGTON.

HE Attorney General filed a fuggeflion, ftating, that 7owua
. Buffngton of tit county of C.k/7er, yeoman, being a fubjL61, or
inhabitant of the State, was by proclamation' of the Supreme
Executive Counril, dated the 2d f O8oher 178o; required in purfuance of the attairider law, to Iuriender huifelf to a pnffice of
the Supreme Court &c. on or befdre the 13 tb of Novem r, 178o,
to abide his legal trial for the treafons-in the proclamation mentioned, &c. That the faid 7olhua Buffng!on did not furrender him.
felt, &c. whereby he is attainted, &c. and he prays an award of

exeutiop.

