COMMON PLEAS, Philadphit

County,

June Term, 1786.

DUTILHt verfus RITCHI-.
HIS was a Replev for divers goods, wares &c. and property
pleaded in Andrew Cw70,and others, afignees for the
rwas
benefit of the defendant's creditors.
The faffswere thefe :--The Defendant had bought certain goods,
for which he gave a promiffory note, that was afterwards indorfed
to the plantitFf who went (probably by defire of the Payee) to purchafe goods from the defendant on the 8th of April ;i785, about
five o'clock in the afternoon, He told the Defendant, on entering
his (hop, that he came to take goods in payment of the note, and th6
.defendant (whofe attention was taken up, at the fame time, by feveral other cuflomers) handed him fuch articles as he pointed out,
mentioningtheir refpeaive prices. The Plaintiffmarked thofe pieces
counter, 'till
which he approved of, and laid them on one fide of tire
he thought he had chofen fufficient to anfwer .the note, and then informing the defendant that he would go for a porter to remove them,
he left the (hop without receiving a bill of parcells, or (tipulating a
time of ptyanent, or tendering the promiffory note to the defendant,
Immediately after the PlItintiff had left the Ihop, the defendant lhut
it lip,

17z
1786,

CASES ruled and adjudged &ez

it up, and called a meeting of his creditors; for whofe benefit, the
next morning, and before this Replevin was ferved, he executed an
•
affignment of all his property.
1 was held by T14E COUR'r, that the property in the goods for

which the Replevin iffued, was not vefted in the Plaintiff; and theJury found a verdi& accordingly lor the Defendant.
Moylan for the Plaintiff.-iileganand Rawk for the Defenrant:

SHOTWELL
T

verfus B13am

RESPASS fer tnefne prfits, after recovery in Eja7mnt.
LIt
mas ruled. by TH E COUtRT, 'that the Plaintiff" hall not
give evidence of the annual value of the premifes beyond the timn
vo the leafe mentioned in the declaration in ejeament; although the'
Vrefent aafion was brcught by the leffor of the Plaintiff.
Rawle for the Plaintiff.-Sergeant for the Defendant.

