CASES ruled and 4judged'if tht

1785.

LAZARUS BARNET'S

Cae.

T haX nhg zbfconded, feveral foregn attal-VBARN
z4 were
L ments
iffed againft him ; and, afterwiards, motions were
made to fet them afide refpe&ively, in favour of a domefjic attachment, which had, likewife iffued againift him. Thefe motions were
aIl founded upon the following affidavit. "Daniel Benezt maketh
oath that on or about the i2tb day of M'ay 1-83, the deponent let
his houfe in Second Street.Philad.phiato a certain LazarusBarnet;
that the faid Lazarus Barnet has refided therein and followed the
bufmefs of a Merchant or Store-keeper from that time 'till abatt two
wreks ago, -when the faid Lazarus abfconded from the city, or fecreted himfelf therein, as this deponent. is informed, And this deponent further faith, that the raid Lazarus Barnet appeared lo him to
be a married man, and having a family and fervants in his houfe."
Sworn the i i th of Deceraber,1784,
This cafe was argued on the 2oth of ?anuary by Sergeant and
Levy againi the foreign attachments; and 11'77f.n and Ingerfol in
fupport of them. On the 27th of the fame month, THE PRESIDENT delivered the unanimous opinion of the Court.
SHzPPEN, Prefidnt.-The quefti6n before us, is, whether the
foreign attachments, or the dom/flic attachment, itlued againft Lazarus Barnet, fhall be eftablifhed ? The arguments in fupport of the
foreign attachments, are chiefly founded on the third claufe in the
firft ad of Affembly, which fays that "no writ of attachment (hall
be granted againft any perfons effeds, but fich only as, at the time
x'giantingfuch writs, are not refident, or rdfiding, within this province ;" and on that of the fecond ad, which leaves non refidents to
be proceeded againfi by foreign attachments, aareeably to the directions of the firft a&. And it is urged, that, in the prefent cafe, it
does not appear, that Lazarus Barnet was refident or refiding within the flate at the time of granting the domeffic attachment ; and,
if he was not fo rcfident, he is the objed of the foreign attachment
la,v.
Our opinion on this cafe, muft be rounded upon a conneded
view of the feveral ads of Alfembly relating to attachments; and
there are the4 Ann. C. 28. the9 Geo.i. c. 3 . and the 14 Geo. 3. c.5"
The objed in paffing the"f!rf ad, was to fubjed the effeds of
abfent debtors to the payment of their debts; as it appears by the
preamble, that before that time, they were not equally liable witl
the effeds of thofe pe-fons who refided on the fpot. Within the
provifions of that ad, three forts of debtors were included:-i ft.
hofe who never refided here, or whofe a'ual refidence was abroad.
2d. Thofe who had refided here, and had abfconded, or otherwife
removed; both of which are cornprizcd in the general defcription
of non r.idents in the third claufe o the ad ; and 2d. Thofe who
were

tOURT

of COMMON PLEAS, Philadelphia County.

153

Avere ffill here, but were about to remove without, giving fecurity
to their creditors. In thefecond a& it is "lated, "'that divers irre" gularities and fraudulent pra&ices had .happened, to the injury
1 of fuch creditors as were willing to accept an equ-d fbare of the
." effe&s of their debtors ;" and from thefe general expreffions w&
are left to confider, to which of the foregoing dcfciiptions of dubtors
-the preamble refers. It cduld not be the'firft; they refiding :br6-d,
and their effc&s coming here only occafionally, there was ito great
danger of fraudulent pra&ices ; and fo it appears by the fubfequeont
law Itill continuing the fame 'emity againit them. With refpe&,
however, to the other two clafles, it was poflible for a creditor to
feduce his debtor to leave the province, or to entrap him into the
"commifflon of fomeother a&, which brought him within the conthru&ion of the'lawi and to feize upon all his effe&s. The a&,
therefore, makes an entire new proviion with refpe& to both" the
latter defcriptions of perfons, and cotnfolidates the two cafes. It.
mentions, nothing- of perfens abfenting themfelves out of theprovnce,
nor of pe fons refufing to give fecurity; but ena&s, generally, that
all pierfons who had dbfconaed from their ufual place of abode for
fix days, with defign to defraud their creditors, and not diibnguilhing whether in the province or out of the province; if they abjionded with that difign, they were perfons whofe effe&s the Legulature.
intended fhould be :livided among their creditors. To fay that they
muff be ftill remaining in theprovince, would be needlefsly reifraining the generality of the words of the. a&, which fuggefis that fometimes they may have left the province, by the words, " and hacl
not kft a clear eftate in fee fimple within theprovinoe, fufficient to'
pay their debts."'
The laft claufe of the fecond a-t5provides, that "nothing in this
a&l fhall be conftrued to exempt the goods or effie& of any per" forl or perfons, not inhabitantsof this province, from being attach"
ed according to the direltions of the former aa." Here appeara
a defigned variation from the expreflion ufed in the firif act: it does
not fay perfons not refiding in the province at the time of iffuing the
attachment, but, generally, perfons not inhabitants of the prop.nce, and.
feems exprefly meant to take in only thofe perfons fnrit defcribed in.
the former art, perfons who never refided herei or ,vhofe a&ual refidence was in another country. .A contrary conitru&ion would
defeat the general intention of the Legiflature, as in moil cafes thofe
debtors who efcape firom theircreditors, go out of the flate. Nor
is it material as to the policy of the a&, whether he remains in thf
fRate or goes out of it' he has committed 2.n, a& fi iiilar to an aa of
bankruptcy by abfconding with a fraudulent detign ; and in thai
cafe, and in that only, is he the object of the fecond at.
The word "inhabitant" has a plain m-aning. A perron coming
hither occafionally, as a captain of a fhip, in the, courfe of trazle,
cannot be called an inhabitant; nor does a perfon going from hi,;
fettled habitation liere, on occafional bufinefs to Byon, or any otheiplace, ceafe to -- an inhabitant. But a man who com:! 1-i
,another
U

17"X5

CAsPs ruled and adjudged in the

1 15+
17 95 .

another place to refide armng us, introduces his family here, tak s
houfe, engages in trade, contracs debts, and, after fome time,
runs away with defign to defraud his creditors, he ought furely to
be ronfideied fuch an inhabitant as not to be an obje& of the foreign attachment, but of the.domeftic one, and as a.perfon whofo
effe~s fhould be feized for the benefit. cf ll his creditr's, and nt
of the firft creditor who fhall tuke out a foreign attachment, otherwife there would be few obje&s for this. equitable law to operate
upon.
Such has been the-uniform conftrufion of the law of attachments in Pennfylvania from the year 1724, to the paffing of the a&
of the 24 Geo. 3. c. 5, which laft a&.gives a~legiflative fandion to
the preceeding prafice. "
declaring our unanimous opi.We have, therefore, nohefitation in.
nion, that the foreign attachments againfi Lazarus Barnet be diffolved.
Theforeign attachments diffolved.

Sa

CASE

verfus

TN this-cife it was ruled

HuFTY.

by'THE COURT, that,-to entitle the

.1 plaintiff to judgment by default, the fervice of a' limm6ns an
the Perfon of the defendant, as well as if left at his houfe, muft be
.4endays before the return.

VIERNE

A

verfus

M'C'ARTY,

furviviing Partner.

FTER argument, THE FRES'DENT delivered the opinion of

the Court in this caufe.
point to-be confdered inthis cafe,
SHip:i N Prfiden:-Thefirft
is, whether the*Court think themfelves authorized to enquire into
the caufe of adion in the cafe of attachments, as they do in cafes of
Capias, whare the defendant's perfon is taken into cufiody? The
reafon of enquiring into the caufe of a&ion on writs iffued againft
the perfon, is to prevent a vexatious plaintiff from imprifoning the
body of the defendant-without caufe: In the cafoofattachments, though
-the reafon may not perhasps be fo forcible, as the perfonal liberty
of -the defendant is more precious than his property, yet the abufo
of the procels of law may be as great, and the neceflity of providing
againft a wanton and groL-Adlefs -feizure of the defendants effels,
as obvious. In the cafe of fpecfic articlesattached, a firanger's lhip,
or other effe&s, may be taken out of his hands, and detained for
fuch v length of time as to ruin his voyage, and embarrafs his affairs beyond redrefs. So, in the cafe of debts attached, his property
may be locked up, his remittances prevented, and the .injury nearly
as great as in the other cafe. The bail marked by an at.l'rnv- or

