SUPR 1 E CoUR-aT of Pe;;mfylvanta.

3.17

Dallas moved to quafh" he execution-Bga:klrn and Healty oppofed it.
And, by THE COURT :-,Afer appeal and fecurity given, the

Juitice cannoz iffule an e5cCUtion againft the original Defendant,
Therebut muft proceed againft the bail upon the recognizance.
lore let the proceedings of the Juitice be fet afide, as far as refpe&s
the execution, with cofis.
RIC-HETTE

Verfu$

S-TEWART

et al.

T HIS was an a6lion upon a Policy of infurance on the Brij
La Catiche ; and the circumilances of hd cafe, as.far as they
refpe& the decifion of the Court, were thefe:The Brig having fufained confiderable damage by atorm, the
Captain, who was alo a part owner, was comtpellcd to deviate from
his proper voyage, and, accordingly, bore away for Gape Francois.
When he azrived there, on tht 28th day -ofAugup, 1784, he delivered a'procs verbal (which 'had been drawn up "atfea, recently after
-he Itrm) into the tdnirilty, in oitder to obtain a furvey of the
velTel; but this intftrumnt was npere!y a relation of tats, unarteflted
hy the oath of the Captain, or of any of the Mariners, who had
fubfcribed it as witnelfes. A copy of it being afterwards, however,
brought to.P'iladelphia,the Captain alone, on the gb day ,ofDecemher 1784, went before a Ntar Public of ihis city, and in form of a
proteit, fwore to the authenticity of the copy, and the truth of its
content's.

When the prefent a6.ion was inflituted, a commiffloi iffued to
obtain a tranfcript of the proceedings in the dmiralty of Cape Fiancois ; and. the proces verbalbeing'returned with the other official ocuments, certified by the Judge under the feel of that Court, the
Plaintiff's council at the trial, which cqmae on the 4th of euJ.,of.
fered to read it in evidence to the Jury.
But, it was obje&ed, by the other fide, that the prods ve-hal,
taken by itfelf, was not admiflible as evidence, becaufe it had not
been rendered upon oath ; and that, even connecling it with the
fubfequent proteftat Phiadelphia, it ought, neverthelefs, to be -reje6ted; becaufe no proteff is valid to this purpofe, that has notbeen
made at the firft port in which the Captain arrives after a misforiuriehas happened to his veffel. See ff/eflcote 4 3 2. i Mag. 87.. Beawes'l4.
.The Plaintiff's counfel, in reply, obferved, that although ihb
ftr16t formalities required in this country, hbad not been purfued, yet
if the proceeding was conformably to the lex loci it ought to be received. They contended, therefore, that as the procs verbal was
lodged in a competent office, and is duly certified under the feal of
the Admiralty, this Court, in refpe& to a foreign jurifdi6lion, is
bound ito prefume that it was regularly taken according to the laws
of France. Befides, the rule in regard. to all excunplificatizns,"
rendered

1788.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the
178.-

rendered it necefflary that the whole record fhould be tranfmitted:and
certified; and, whatever may be its weight and effea, the whole
ought alfo to be fubmitted to the Jury. See Falinis Ord. de Fr.
190. Dfug. 554. Parke's Infurance 4o4. Bull. N. P. 227.
BY T E 'Co ATr :-Though we-had fome doubt, at firft, whether,
conneled with the fubfequent protefi, the prods verbal might not
be given in evidence, yet we are now convinced that its admiffien
would be highly improper. The declaration of an3 man, delivered
eithqr in a Pagan, or CGr/ifian, Court, without the folemnity of an
oath, is not evidence of the a& afflerted cven whcre the witnefs is
fubje& to no biafs; much lcfs, where he is immediately interefted; as
the Captain was in the prefent inflance, being a partowner of the vefiel.
Thecafein Doug. 554. does not apply to that before us; norcan-the
prods verbal be confiddred as a judicial proceeding. With refpc6t to
the argument, that it is a part of the exemplification, itisfufficientto
obferve, that ifa Deed ot any kiRd had been left with the Judge of
ihe Admiralty, he would, probably, have certified it in the fame
manner, without meaning, in any degree, to efltablith the validity,
or to affe& the legal operation of the inffrurnent.
The reading of the prods verbal was accordingly over-ruled.

After flaring fome other points in the caufe, the Plaintiff's counfel offered to read the protell made in Philadelphia, on the 4 th day
6f December 1784; to which their opponents likewife obje&ed for
the reafon already mentioned, that it was not made at the firfi Port,
and alfo on account of the length of time which had intervened.
BY-!FE 'CoURT:-The queflion now before us, is, in fa&,
Port at which the Capvhiether a proteft muff be made in the firft
tain arrives after his veffel has been damaged? . This is a matter of
great importance, upon which litle information can be derived
from the books ; and, therefore, we w ere in hopcs to have heard it
more fully difcuffed on general principles.
We think, however, that to admit the evidence of a Captain of
-a veffel in excufe of his own cciidua, -the greateft precaution fhould
be ufed, and every poflible reilri&ion' impofed. Hence, it is'the
rule b France, that the proteft thall be made within 24 hours after
ihe arrival at the next Port ; and here, as well as in England, it
ought io be accompanied by the atteftation of a majority of the crew.
Fr. 19 o. z Magens 16o. The reafon is evident.&SaPlines'Ord..de
Ly o prevent any fubfequent collufion; and we cannot but think
-that it is the fafeft a well as the mofi certain mode of proceeding.
if, indeed, any particular circuinflances Thould render it impoffible
to comply, they will always form an exception to the rule; but, as
that is not pretended on the prefent occafion, we are unanimous in
rejea ing the evidence.
As foou as this decifion was pronounced, the Plaintiff volunarily
tuffered a Nonfuit.
Levy, Jngerj~ll and Sergeant for the Plaintiff-Lewis ard JMilcocks
RsPvULIc A
for the Defendants.

