COIURT of COMMON -PLEAS of .PFiddvphja'C9UntY. 369.

WAT£ s' verfus MILLAR.

1788.

0

N a motion in arreft of judgment after a veidi& for the PlgintifF
in this caufe, it appeared, that the Defendant had given .his
note of hand to one 7ejerw, which-was expreffed in thefe woras'
" I promife to-pay, or caufa to. be paid, unto George,7eferw, or
"order, the full (birn of .2d. againft or before the ..27th day of
"NV&eMber, T725."- This note. was afterwards -fold- and deflvered, fbr. a, valuable confideration, byjffer=w to the Plaintiff,
but without any indorfement or written a gnment; god the Defendant having refufed to pay it, this a&ion was inflituted, in which
the declaration, after flating thenote &c. proceeded as follows:--.
V"And wheteas the faid ;iofge afterwards, to wit,. ort the 4th day
g' of Rvenber, in the faid year, ifi the city and cou.nty -aforefaid,
" the faid 4.2o. being .wholl, unpaid, for a valuable coftfideration
"to him by the faid Niolas (Ifaters) then and 'there paid,
"gained and fold the faid promiifory note to the faid Nicholas,. and
"pMffefflon thereof to him then and there delivered ; ahd" in con"fideration whereof the faid 7acob (Millar) afterwards, to wit,
" the fame day-and yearlaft aforefaid, at the.city and county afore:' faid, at the fpecial -inftance and reqneft of the' faid Nicholas,,
"aTfumed upon himfelf, and then 'and there promifed the faid
"NNicholas that he would pay him the aid £.2o. according f. the ,' -tenor and effe& of the laid note.
Neverthelefs 'th&faid Jacob
"the faid fum of money, according to the tenor and effe& of'the
"faid note, hath not paid-.nto the faid Nicholas, &c" ".
The qcueffign was, :Whether the Plaintiff could maintain the prefent fuit ik his own name, upon the meie fale and delivery of the
note, with6ut any indorfement or aflignment-from 7finoiv to-himi?
Sergeant, for the Defendant, having premifed, that,. if there was
a confideration, it was immaterial to lay a ptomife t6 pay the note,
apd, on the other hand, that, - i.1 tiere was no confideration, the
promife was nugatory and void, -contehded, that a promiffory note,
being a chofe in alion, was not affignable by writing 'at common"
law, rnuch.lefs -by delivery alohe; Cun. 4. B. L'-o5 3 Bc. 4br.
605. Salk. 129,.Ld. Raym. -757. 774, and that this could not be'
likened to a note payable to Bearer, whcre poffeffion -gives the affioni;
Cun. L. B. E. 129. but it is the.afe, of a note payable to-one. or
his orde4. which order muff, be in writing to bring- it. within the
ftatute. *As, therefore,- no indorfement, or'aflignuient, is laid, the'
aaion cannot be maintained, in its prefent form. It is true, that
dfie aflignee of a bond may fue in the name of the obligee; and the
Plaintiff -inightfue in the niirne ofj7eerow ; but, in that cafe, the
D.efendant could prove a fet off and thew the ballnce, to be in his
fayor. Of this "advantage he would now, p'rhaps' be deprived;
nor would ihis aclion be final ik honafide indorfey ofJeferow flimuld
hereiter appear.
Razbke, in hppofing the motion, obfefved,
the verdi& had
eured all-exceptions to the expre'1ons of the dech'ratzon; and that
- aa. of
the
-har-

-

-t'hat

-

-

Vi.

-

$79

UCA.ss rule4 and

adjudged in the.

the Plaintiff had an equitable right.to recover, having bought the
note for a valuable confidration; which,, of itfelf, was luflicient to
induce the Court to confider him as agent, or ittorney, to do what
7#.row might have done ; and an attorney, &c. who has a naked
authority to receive, may fue in his own name on a promife to pay
to him. Lev. z88. I Vent. 318.332. aBlack. Rep. Term.Rep. lie
ihen ibfifted, that the fale arid delivery were a good aflignment
without writing; which is not neceffary to a contra&t, otherwife
than as evidence of it; 3 Burr. 1670. and, he contended, that
there was a fufficient confideration for the ajfumpJit laid in the declaration; that being, he faid, the material grouid of the aaion,
and not, as the adverfe counfel fuggefted, the mere poffeflion of the
note; that the Plaintiff's receipt for the money would be a fufficient difcharge from any claim on the part of Jetlrow; and that,
even if the promife were not ftriffdy laid in the declaration, the
pra&ice of overlooking fimilar inaccuracies, in order to promote
-the juftice of the caf , would fupply that defe&. 3 BI. Com. 394.
Sak. 29. T I"lf. 255. 3 IkVls. 40. Salk, 364. I Sid. 218. 1 Pent.
40. There is, however, at leaft, fo much confideration for the
aFUmpfit as the poffefli6n of the note; and the queflion of damnibcationr cotld not come before the Court on the prefent motion,
'which is in arreff ofJ udgment, and not for a new trial.--See Cro.
*E. 67. H&ob. 4 r Sid. 3L. Styl 296. 1 Corn. Dig. 138.
Sraipa'r, PriJdent.-Thisis a motion in arreft of judgment,
on the ground that no confideration is laid in the declaration to found:
the afum0pifupon: And as it tends to deftroy the Plaintiff's a&ion"
after a verdi& given in his fa.or upon the merits, the Court would
afford every aid in its power, confiftently with law, to carry the
verdi& into effect; but they muff niot depart from the eftablifhed
principles of law, which are wifely calculated for general cafes,'
although in particul'r ones they may 'ometimes appear to be hard.
The declaration flatere, that v the Defendant Yacob Miller gave
his promifflory note to one Gesrge efgirow tor .,2. pavble to
"him or his order; that by virtue of the flatute the faid jaco became thereupon liable to pay to the faid George, -or his order, dte
"faid fum of L.2o That the faid George afterwards for a valuable
~confideration bargainedandfoId the Thid note to the Plaintiff, and
"delivered him poffeffron of it; and that in conjIernton thereof the
"Defendant affu-?:ed and proni fed to pay tbl.o
to the Plaintl,
of the faid note."
"accorditng to the tenor and*c
*The queffion is, whether the fale and delivery of the mcte to the
Pl aintifIf 'is -of i tfei f,. without any ind.ifirnent or a(,I-ignmnet, a Ie-a'
ground of the -Ja'mpit;for no o'ther contfideratio: is laidI.
*The note is a negotiable note, payaible to 7Y row, or his order;
thle remedy, th~refoie, as upon the-inftrument itfelf, is confined to
J' flirow, or- his order; and.itlwould, indeed, be confined to 70ffe
.ow hihi'elt; as a ehofe in a on, if the a& of Parliament, or a& of
Affemnly, did not enable a, aflignee to fue in his own name.
There

COURT of COMMoN PLFAs of Phiadephia County.

37!

There maft then be fome collateral matter, fome injury to the 1788.
Plaintiff, or benefit to the Defendant, in the confideration itfejff laid
as a ground for the affumption. It the Defendant had promifedto
the Plaintiff, having poffeffion of the note, and a power to fue for
the money (though not in his own name) that if he would forbear
to fue him, he would pay it; or, if the promife had been in collfideration of his delivering the note up to be cancelled ; thefe proimifes, though made to a porfon not having an aflignment of the
note, would perhaps have been fufficient to ground an afanpfitupon.
But this is a bare promife to pay to the Plaintiff, a ftranger, in
confideration of a fale and delivery of the note by the payee to him,
a confideration moving neither to, nor from, the Defendant, and
which could not redound either to his benefit or injury.-Beides,
the promife laid, istopay to the Plairitiff, according to the finor-and
efee of the note, and the tenor and effe& of the note was to pay to
Yee'row, or his order, and not to any perfon to whom he thould fell
and deliver it.

If the note had been payable to 7effyiroew, or Bearer,

a bonafide purchafer of it might have maintained the aclion ; becaule fuch notes pafs by delivery: But a note payable to order, muft
be ajigned, to enable the holder to bring the a&ion in his own name.
Bonds in England are every day afligned, attended with irrevocable powers to fue for the aflignees ufe: Such an affignment one
would think would be full evidence of a fale and delivery, -yet no
a&ions are ever brot'ght on that ground, but always in the name ot
the obligees.
We would intend every thing we could to fupport the verdi&;
from thattowhich
but we cannot intend a confideration quite differentwe
giv.were
if
is laid, which we muftdo in the prefent cafe,
our opinion in favor of thePlaintiff.
Thejudginent, therefore, muft bearrefted.

GiBBS

verfus

G R s.

TJHE cafe was briefly this :-A certain Aaron Mufgrove hadI
brought a qui tam affion againft the Defendant, Ann Gibbs,
in which, alter a trial in the Supreme Cour, he obtained ajudgment.
en thefe:ond day of OOober, 1788 ; but no execution was thereupon
iffued. On the fourth day of the fame month, however, the Defendant lhaving then confeffed judgment in this Court to the Plain.
tiff, Benjamin Gibbs, a F. fa; was iffued in this caufe, and duly
executed upon a houfe and lot of ground in Pbi!adelhia; after which
Mrs. Gibbs committed an act of bankruptcy, and the Sheriff paid
the money levied by virtue of the F2i.fa. into' the hands of the rothonotary, to be difpofed of as the Court ihould dire&.
In-the courfe of the argument, 'there were fome infinuations of
t
collufion, with refpe& to the fecondjudgment ; but as no pro. was.
offet6d, the only queftion before the Court was, whether, under. aft
the
Aaa z

