SUPREMIvE CoVunr of Pennfy/vanza;

April Tei m,

KENNEDY

verfus

789..

NEDROW,

et Ux. et aL

.THISwas an aalion of dower in 25o acres or land in LanJL. .. afler county, brought by Anne Kennedy, widow, who was the
wife of Richard .7AqO , deccafed,' againit Thsmas A'edrcw, an* :
.Anne, his wife,' CatharineJ flar, and Rebecca Marlin.' The Tenanepleaded, ift, afpeciat plea," That RichardJohnfon,the hufband, on the _zth ot ,ugzft, 1767; made his will, and thereby
devifed a moiety of Soo acres of land to his wife, tie demandant,
"in fee ;'whicn devife wds in lieu of dower:" .And, 2dly, they
"pleaded, " That the dermandant had fued out a writ of partition
"againft the tenants for making partition of the faid 500 acres of
"land, and had recovered. &c." " To thefe pleas the demandant
replicd, the tenants demurred, the Demandant joined in demurrer,
and iffues.
On thefirTplea a cafe was flated in fubftance as follows :-' That
on the 12th of .Iugul, 176 7, RiihardJohnon mnade.his laft will
and tefiment, and therein bequeathed and devifed in'hec verba.;
Inprimis, I give and bequeath unto my loving wife, Ann 7ohnfonrt
" all that mv ldt or ground, fituate &c. which I bought ofjohn
" Millar, &c. with the houfes, barns, and other appurtenances
thereunto belonging: A.y, all my houfehold goods; horfes, live
flock, and other moveables, which I have here in Dzncalr.znd
" in Germantown, Philadelphiacounty. to her, her heirs and .ffigns
' fortcver: -d#0 4, 1ooo iawful imoney ot Pennfylvania, in bonds and
bills, to be paid to 'her, or her heirs and afligns, 'in fix months
" time after my deceafe, with intereft, by my executor her.ein" alter named. I give and bequeath-unto i v brother)JohnJohnfon'
41and

4-16
T79

..

-

CASES

rulei'and adjudged- in the

4' and to each of his three fons, a-xhis daughter, &c. the fum ofC5,

,Itobe paid three months after mr deceafe, &c., I give and bequeath
" unto my filter Anne Aedrow, all that my 300 acre trat ot l-nd,
",
fituate, &c. with the appurtenances, to her, her heirs and afligns
,:forever.' I give and bequeath unto my fifter Catharho-Myltar, all
i' that my 30o acre tra6l of land, fituate, &c. to her, her heirs and
•caffigns orever. I give and bequeath unto my loving (wife) Anne
ohnfOn, the one moioty or undividcd half of all that my 5oo acre
ftra&of band, fituate, &c. to her, her heirs and afligns forever:
f. Providcdalways that if my faid wife Anne johnfin after my deceafe, fhould be married to another man, that then fhe fhall
" have the faid moiety during her life, with fufficient power to give
,1and bequeath the fame at her deceafe, to whomfoever the will,
• excepting to her lecond hufband, or any from or under him. I
d give and bequeath the other moiety, or iindivided balf part of my
faid 5o acre trat of land unto my three fitlcrs, Ann, Catharine,
and Rebecca, each one third part, to them, their heirs, and affignq
forever. My will is that there be io water works built or ereted
9,on any part of the (aid 5o acre tract of land forthe fpa.z of, &c.
I give and bequeath my trat of land lying, &c. unto my filler
IAnn) and .to her heirsant afligns forever; under and fubje& to the
yearly rent of 4os &c. to be paid to my loving wife, Ann .7ohfon,
"cand to her heirs and afligns forever. I give and bequeath unto
i my filer Gatharine, my twenty and odd acres of land, lying, &c.
,gand the appurtenances; all', twelve acres of wood land to be cut
ooff a large tract adjoining, &c. to be holden by her, her heirs and
2 afligns forever; under and fiibjet to the yearly rent of £6, to be
paid to my lovin wife dnn 7ohnfon, her heirs and afligns forever,
, and alfo fubjectto as muh firewood as my wife ifhall have ocS'cafion for,. when fhe comes to live at Germantonwn. I g:ve, de"vile, and bequeath to my filler Reeccca, and her fon Paul, all that
0 my tra& of land (the remainder after the laid 12 acres are
' taken off) containing 5o acres, more or lefs, adjoining, &c. to be
" holden to themtheir heirs and afligns forever; under and fubje6l
-6,to the yearly rent of £4.to be paid to my loving wife, Ann _bn".fin, her heirs and afligns forever; the faid traat not to be fold till
" Paul arrives at 30 years of age. I give and bequeath unto my
" filter Ann, all, that my tra&t of 12 acres oppofite thelaft men, tioned 50 acres, &c. to her heirs and affigns forever. 1 give and
keepers of Germantown, &c. I
o bequeath £5o to the poor-houfe
,Igive and bequeath C5o to the ufe of the PennfylvaniaHojfital. As
1
" concernig all the ref and refidieofrmy effeas,'bills, bonds, mortI
" gages, monies, and eltate whatfoever, not herein before giren,
my
and
Ann,
wife
myloving
between
would have divided equally
fillers, Ann, Catharine,and Re,ecca, par- and fhare alike to each of
" them, their heirs and affigns forever. And I do appoint and
nominate myloving wife, Ann .7ohnfon,&c. to be executorsof this
mylaf will and teftament."
"

' The

Sul'ZEME CouRT of Ptnnfylvan;a.

417

'The queftion for the opinion of the Court on this plea and cafe,
is, Whether, upon the whole will, the devifes and bequefis therein contained, or any of them, to the faidAnne, the demandant, made,
'are fufficient in law to bar the faid Anne from recovering her faid
'dower '
The caufe was argued at the laft term by Sergeant and Bradford,
for the Demandant; and Cexe and Lewis, for the. Tenants: And
now the CHrEF JUSTIci delivered the opinion of the Court to the
following ei1eft :
M'KEAN, Chif yuflce.-Two queftions have been made on
this record, in the dif-'uflion of which, the law relating to the fubjeft has been exhaufled ; The fir~f is, ,'Whether the devifes to
" the Demandant in the will of RichardJohnfon; fhall be deemed
" a fatisfa&ion of her dower'?" And thefecond is, "Whether by
"the a&ion of partition brought, by the Damandant, wherein it
"is acknowledged that the moiety, out of which dower is now
"claimed, belonged to the Tenants, fhe is not flopped from re' covering in this a&ion ?"
In delivering our opinion on this occafion, we fhall avoid a recapitulation of the arguments offered by the counfel on either fide ;
confining orfelves io the quefhons propofed, a brief ftatement of
the reafons of our judgment, and a referrence-to the books, on
which we rely, as authorities to fupport it.
i. Dower js a legal, an equitable, and a moral right. Prec. mn
Chan. 244. It is. iavored in a high degree by law, and, next to
life and liberty, held facred. Lill..dbr. 666. 0.
Three incidents
entitle a woman to dower : Marriage, feifin, and the death of the
hufband. I IVi. 32. a. h. And a widow may be barred of dower
by a jointure made in purfuance of the flatute ot 27. H. S. c. To.
fec7. 6. Such a jointure may, indeed, be made either before, or
after, marriage ; but with this difference, that if it is made before,
the wife cannot wave it, and claim her dower at common law ;
which fhe can do, if the jointure is fubfequent to the marriage.
No other fettlements, however, in lieu fjointures, are bars to a
claim of dower ; nor, it muft be remembered, was a jointure itfelf any bar antecedent to the pailingof the ftatute of H 8. for, it
is eftablifhed law, that arig,'t, or title, of dower, cannot be barred by a collateral fatisfaaion. IJ'ood'sInl. 125. 1 InJ7. 36. b.
Nor, in fhort, by any thing but a plain and e.prefs intention of the
parties. Ibid. Finch Rep. 368. x Uan. Ca. 181. 2 Chan. Ca. 24,
2 Vent. 340. 4 Co. I. 2.
In the will before the Court, it is no where expreled, ihat the
devifes to the Demand-ant flall be in lieu of dower ; but, it is contended, that the intentien of the teflator, colle&ed from the words
of the whole will, appears to be, that the Demandant (hall be barred of her claim at Lommon law ; that the devifes to her ire of
lands in fee ; and that thefe, being of four times the value of her
dower, ought to bo confidermd as a recompenfe, or fatisfafion, fo"
Ggg
it.

.7789-

*13
179.

Cmszs ruled and adjudged in -the

it. But in the.words of the whole will, we can difeover no exprefs
intention to that purpofe ; -and, although an effate for life, or even
during widowhood (which isthe fame as al eflate f6r life, fince it
is in the- wife's own power to make it -.fuch; and thefe, by the
bie, are the loweft eftates that will operate in bar of dower, either
in a jointur, or will) may-be given with the view, and operate to
bar a 'widow"s claim at-common law; yet, it muft appear to be fo
intended by the words of the will, and not inferred from its filence,
or prefu med upon conje&ure - For, no .devife to a wife, even of
an eflate -in fee fimple, although ten times more valuable than her
dower, will be, of itfef, a bar of dower; but, it will be cdnfidered
as a benevolence, and Ihe is entitled to both. z Fresin. Rep. 242.
Prec. in Cban; r33.
Nor, in fuch a cafe, will equity interpofo- againft the wife;
for,* I cannot find any infknces in which relief uppn this fubje&,
bas been given, but in the following:sift, Where the implication, that fh flhall not have both the devife and the dower, is
flrong and neceffeq; 2dly, Where the devife is entirely incon~jy)ent
.with the claim of dower; and 3 dly, Where it would. prevent the
whole will from taking effe& ; that is, where -the claim of dower
would overturn the will in tota. 3 J&k 437In fhort, the authorities are numerous and explicit, that dower
cannot be barred by a colliteral recompence ; that fhe devife of
afiy thing to a wife, cannot be averred to be in bar of dower, be-.
csufe a will. imports a confideration in itfelf; and that the devife,
without other matter, i. to be taken as a beievolence, and the devifee
deemed a purchajor. 46. 3. 4. 9 AMod. 152. 2 Yern. 365. 2Frrt.

-

-

Rep. 242. Prec. in 6han. r33. 2 9711. 624. 3 &tk. 8, 436.

1 Ld.

Raym. 4 3 6. 1 Lutw. 734. Brook (tit. Dower) pl, 69. Dyer 248,
x Fez. 55t 230. 2 Eq. .dbr; .388. pl. 14. 18. 7 Eq..dhr. 219.
. Brown. Chan. .Rp. 292. Tb whicl ihay be added two decifins
in this Court, Blackfordet ux. vs. Kennedy, in 1769: And Kennedy
et ux. (tme prefent Demandant)" vs. kY~/)ar, in 1779.
The Court, therefore, unanimoufly think, that the divifes to
the Demandant, in the will of Richard Johnfon, cannot be deemed a fatisfacion or bar of dower in this affion'
is
2. Theficond queftion, enquires, whether the Demandant
.
partition
6f
a6lion
the
in
recovery
the
by
barred in this a&ion,
And, in fupport of the afirmative, the counfel for the tefiants have
cited "i Ral. dbr.862,.Pl. 4.864. P/ 8. Co. Litt 27. a.
Dower is an excrefrent intereft taken out of the inhejitafice for a
ime, which being elapfed, the intereft falls again to the ownet of
bethe inheritance. But the inflitution of the a&ion of partition
tQ
land
ol
acres
5oo
the
of
moiety
a
came.neceflary to appropriate
the
for,
forever;
but
life,
for
merely
not
devifees,
the
each of
forjudgment is, that the partition fhould remain firm and ftable
a
had
Demandant,
the
than
perfon
other
then,'any
If,
ever.
in the whole of the .o5 acres, although fuch peifon
right ofdower
.could not have.bcqn made a party in tbe partitioni the partition
x iht

Si PRtii

CoURT of Pennrjyvania

49

might certainly have been effe&ed, notwithftanding that right of
dower& - And why hould not the fame be done in the cafe before
the Court? The devifee held the moiety allotted, to her, fubje& to
the claim of dower;. and, in doing thig, there was nothing inconfiaent, or uncommon -,. Nor, Gan we perceive, how 4he recovery
in partition,, eftops the Demandant from faying, that fhe has a
claim. of dowex in that part of the.premiffes which has been affigned.
to the Tenaw-. As, indeed, on the one hand, there is no cafe,
nor didun of any Judge, to warrant this plea, fo, on the other,
The cafe cited by the
we think reafon and juffice are againft it.
c6unfel for the Tenants only fays, that, iii dower, the Demandant claims dower of lands unde nihil babel &c. and, therefore, flie
hall be flopped from claiming any thing more.
Upon the whole, THEr, COURT are clearly of opinion, and dize&, thatjudgment be entered for the Demandant.

ZAN2 ZINGER

versfu

POLE.

A

MOTION being made for a'Iule upon the Sheriff to return
a Venditioni Expanas, THE CIAEF JUSTICE, upon a doubt
expreffed by that officer, faid, that, by the fpirit and words of the
ad of Affembly, the Sheriff muft fell not merely to the hight), but
to the be_/, bidder; that, therefore, if the higheft bidder was unable to pay, the Sheriff might make an offcr to the next higheft ;
and that if the property was not. paid for after a fale, the return
fhould be, that " the premiffes were knocked down to A- 13. for
"fo much; that the faid A. B. has not paid the purchafe -money,
" and; that, therefore, the premiffes remain unfold."

PATTON

verfUS

CALDWELL.

rTHIS was an aion on a policy of irifurance, upon the trial of
X which, Lewis, for the Plaintiff, offered to read in eyidence a
fpecial verdi& that had been given in another uaion upon the fame
Sergeant hnd Ingerfol
policy, but againft a different underwriter.
objeced, that the verdi&. was given between other parties, and,
therefore, not admiflible ; upon which Lewis proved an agreement
of all the undei writers to be bound by one verdi&.
M'KEAN, ChiVf Juficit.-The objection turns upon this principle, that the Defenaz -t had no opportunity of crofs-examining
upon the former trial; and the anfwer is, that he, with the reft of
the underwriters, had agreed to be bound by one ierdi& ; which.
is certainly the only ground for offering the evidence propofed by
&hePlaintiff's counfel.

Ggg 2

Whfether

1789.

