234
17S8.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the
STEINMETZ

et al. verfus CURRE-r.

f OTION for a new trial. The
of the cafe were
.V.thefe :-7ames Whitelaw drew acircumfiances
bill of exchange, dated the

aoth of Oohber x775, for L.239. IS. o. iferling, upon W illiam
Houflon and Co. in R efrew near Glafgow, payable on zthe ift of
Augu?, 1776, in favor of John 7 itherjVoon, or order; which bill
was
atterwards indorfed by the faid John Jkzitherfpoon, by JrchibaldCurrey (the Defendant) by Archibald and Win. Blair, by 7ohn Pringle,
by Sleinmetz and Bell, (the Plaintiffs) by Mfark Freeman and
by
JJ'iliam Cowpland. The Defendarit's indorfement was made on,
or
about, the r 7 th of April 1777, and the bill was prefented
and
protefled for non-acceptance on the 3oth of December 177 8 ,; of which
notice was given on the 28th of April i78o, to the Plainiiffs, who
on the 9t'&
of November following paid the amount, and givibg notice
thereof to the Defendant on the i 7h ofOdober 1782, they commenced
the prefent action on the fucceeding day.
Upon the trial, the court was moved to dire& the jury to find a
fpecial verdi& ; but, perceiving fo great a complication of fa&
and
law in the cafe; and, being doubtful, as the whole tranIaition happened flagrante hello, whether the point of reafonable -notice of
the
proteft, was proper for them, or the jury, to determine, it
was
thought beft, upon the whole, to leave it to the jury to find either
a
fpecial, or a general, verdi&, as they thould think advifeable. The
jury found general verdi& for the Plaintiff.
The motion for a new trial was made, and argued, at the Jaft
term; and now-the CI EF JUSTIC E, having recapitulated the
preceding ltate of the cafe, delivered the opinion of.the court.
M'KEAN, ChiefJuflic'e.-The motion for a new trial in this
.caufe, has been fupported on two grounds: Ilf, Becaufe the Plaintiffs declare on the Iirft bill of exchange, and produce the fecond
and
third, with a protcft of the fecond; ailedging, that the firf i'as
alfo
protefKd, but furnithing no proof of that fat. And 2da/, becaufe
the verdi& was againff law and evidence.
Granting new trials depends on the legal difcretion of the
guided by the nature and circumfiances of the particular cafe. i court,
Bur.
293. The courts of Englandhave granted them -where the
jury have
found a geeralverdi&, a'ter counfel have prayed for, and the court
have direced, a fpecial one. 8ffrod. 22o. x Wll. 212.
So where
tfr'e verdic is againlS thcfirength of the evidence, and the trial
is
peremptory. i2 Alo. 439. 1 Ban. oes 322. 1 Stra. 584. 2 Ld.
Ra.m. 1358. . 6. 1 Burr. 395. And where the matter
appears to
the court to deferve a re-e.am.naton, they have likewife frequently
ord.red a new trial. 12 AMd. 3326. 3z7-. N[n. Abr. trial. . g. f 475.
In tie prefen: cafe, the verdid appears to be againf the ftrength
of the evidence. Two )ears ai.d a 'alf (.rom the 28ihoI 4ril 1780,
until

SUPR .r

COURT of .Pennfylvania.

'35

until the 17th of O07oler i78%) elapfed: between the time at which
the PlaintifFs had notice of the proteft of the bill in queffion, and ihe
time when they gave notice to the Defendant: And, as the former
refided-at Philadelphia, and the latter at Poughkpfie, in the fRate of
New-Y ork, the diftance of thefe places, which is 1efs than 150 miles,
does not fuicientlyaaccount
war. for fo extraordinary a delay, evn though
it lppened during
It is well tinderftood, that notice of a proteft ought to be given in
a reafonable time; and, by not giving it, the indorfer takes the lofs
upon himfelf: r Salk. 127. 2.lack. Rep. 469. Cun. "Law. of B. of
E. 4o. Sea. 6. Doug. 497. Term. Re. 168. 5 Burr. 2b 7 1. And
want of notice is tantamount to payment. 'rermRep. 408. 12
Upon the whole, we think this caufe requires a re-examination;
thlat the verdi& was againft theftrengtb of the evidence given on the
trial, and the law refpeffing reafonable notice; and that the Defendant, who has no remedy over but againft *ohn Af/itherpoon the
prior indorfer, or James JMhitelaw, the drawer of the bill, will be
improperly expofed to a great lofs by the negle& of the Plaintiffs, if
thole perfons -hould, in the mean time, have become infolvent.
A new trial awarded. *
'See j.

fame Ca.,

and Ro&rtfn et al. -rerfus xoglt in the C. .

'1788.

