SUPREME COURT of PennJlvania:

JanuaryTerm, 1788.

MILLAR

verus

HALL.

UL

to/fhew caufe why an Exoneretur lhould not be enterel
on the bail-piece.-The Defendant had obtained his difcharge
Under the infolvent law in thk State of M'arland, which law was enaded
fubfequent to the debt in queltion, and to the inflitution of this fuit.
It wa- itated, and allowed, that the money for which the afion was
brought, had been paid to Hall in Mlarland, on account of goods
fold and deivered upon a commiflion as the partner of Millar; but
that the origin-d agreencn, under which they a&ed in the fale of
thore goods ¢v's executtd in Phladephia, and that the proceeds belonged to merchants refiding in Pentyyvania, i~here, confequently,
the payment was to be male. it was, likewife, admitted, that
the
en ant was refident in, and fubje& to the laws of Maryland, and that the llaintiff was relident.in, and fubje& to the laws
of Pennfylvania: And it did not appear to the Court that the Plaintiff
was returned as a credtitor in the Defdndant's fche'du, ie; nor was
any notice of the time and place of furrender ferved upon him,
thouagh a general publication, of the Defendant's intention to take
the benefit of the Infolvent law, was made, in the ufual form, in
the BaltimoreGazette.
IMolan, in hewing cauf againf the rule, argued, that according
fimhged in its operatios
to the ftri& idea of a municipal law, it was
tate
that made it; for jus civile eft quod
to the jurifdi~ion.fo the
qulfque fibi populus conltuit; and to a free people particularly, it
thugappear unreafonable that there hould be legiflation where there
s no reprefentation. c tngt. 98. There are, however, heacknowledged, cafes in which an indire6 efi'e& is given to loreiga ltatutes
i,

230
178S.

CASES ruled and -adjudged in the

in order to accomplifl the rules of juftice; as in the inflance of conStra&s entered into in other countries; or of bargains which are unlawful where made; or of a certificate obtained under a bankrupt
law in'a foreign nation, of which both d-btor and creditor are members and fubjecs. Pr;n. of Ey 363. i Black. Rep. 234. 256.
But ftill, in all thefe exceptions, the foreign fiatutes, ajuch, have
no coercive authority extra territriun, but are received oil) by confent as far as they are neceffary to jullice.
He then contended from the fasts, that the Defendant did not
come within the principle of any of the cafes referred to" for, as the
Plaintiff was not a fubjc&dof Adaryland, it cannot be prefumed that
either by himfelf or his reprefentatives, he has confented to the De.fendant's difcharge, or rather to the law, by uxhich that difcharge
was authorized ; that, as between the Plaintiff and Defendant, the
place of the contra&-, which the law materially regards, was Philadelhia, where the merchants to whom the money was, in fa&, payable, refided ; and that even if the contrad had been made in AMaryland, the Defendant would not be in a bctter condition on that account, as the law under which he was difchargeo, was enaded feveral years afterwards, and, therefore, could not have been in the
contemplation of the parties in n aking their agreement.
He urged, likewife, the inconveniencies that would attend the
adverfe dcctrine, from a variety of confiderations. "Suppofe there
htad been no bankrupt law in Pennjylvania, vnd that, in -tnrth, our
Legiflature difappioved of it, yet, every debtor by going into Maryland and complying with the terms of their General A61, or, perhaps, by viitue of a fpecial one, might obtAina certificate, which,
it is contended, wotild difcharge hiiii from his creditors here ; and
thus another flate would make laws for *us, not only without our conrent, but contrary to our interior policy. Again, if no other notice
is required than an advrtifement in a Maryland newspaper, which
the citizens of Pennfylvania fieldom read, the fpoils may be flared among the creditors prefent, to the exclufion of the abfent; who, at
the fame time, have been guilty of no fault or negligence, but, if
they had been apprized of the tranfadion, might have fuggefted fuch
circumftances of fraud, as would prevent the granting the very certifieate, which is fet up as a conchifive bar to their jult demands. Tri
Englandthe king is not boutd by the bankrupt laws, i Atk. 3o3. and
fhall we be bound, who are not in any degree conneced with the
government that made them ? If Maryland had giver a preference tp
her own citizensin the diftribution 'of an infolvent's, or a bankrupt's eflate, ought we,who are ftrangers, to be affeied by the certificate of
difcha*rge, though we derive no4benefit from the furrender of property ? Where, or how, is the line to be drawn? If, indeed, the
.ertifcate is to be univerfally operative, fo ought the aflignment of
the bankrupt's eftate to be, finte. the words of the barikrupt laws are,
in this refpet, as comprehenfive and forcible, as in that; and yet
it is an eftablifbed dolrine, that the afflgnment is only binding in
the late in which thecommifflion iffues. Doug. 16o. The a6t of
Maryland

SUPREME COtYRT of PennfylVanla.

231

Maryland is an infolvent, and not a bankrupt law, as it Works no ex- i78g.
tinguifhment of the debt, but leaves all future acquifitions of proper- L..J
ty liable to the creditors of the perfon difrharged : And in the cafe
of jameset al.vs. Allen ant.18 8 . SHIPPEN, Pr/identdetermined that an
infolvent law of .New-7,rfey was local in its terms, and local in its
nature.,
Ingrl, in fupport of the rtle, having fiated that an Exonerelur
might be entered without an a6tual furrender of the principal:
Barn. 194. 1 Corn. Dig. 496. and proved that the Defendant
had conmplicd with the terms of the infolvent law of Maryland, obferved," that irrprifinment had been thought by very judicious writers, to be an -6t illegal in itfelf; Burgefs on.Infolv. and it feems, indeed, ihat the only reafonable juflification of it, is to compel a
debtor to furrend. r all his effe&s for the benefit of his creditors.
When that is done, it is not only unreafQnable and unjuff, but, by
the exprefs provifion of tk Co2fl, of Penn. §. 8, independent of the
do&tines founded on the common law, it is illegal to reftrain a
man's perfon..I freedom.
He then contended, that from general principles, from pofitive
authorities, arifing under the bankrupt laws of different countries,
from the reafon of fie thing, and from the mifchievous confequences
of a contrary pofilion, the difcharge of the Defendanf in on ftlate,
ought to be futlicient to difeharge him in every ftate; without this,
perpetual imprifunment muff be the lot of every man who fails; and
all hope of rLtitving his loires by honeA and induftrious purfuits,
will be cut off from the unfortunate bankrupt.
But a debt paid according to the law ofa foreign country, though
in a depreciated medium, has been decreed to be a fatisfa&ion ; and
a c[//io bx'or'un in Hland, which is a difcharge there, was decided to
have the fame.eff.& -in Engkand. Co. Bank. Law 6o. 1. 2. 1-5.
347- Green Bank. Law 131. 26o. 2 8lra. 738. I .4Ak. 119,
Brown.. Cajfs in Cban. 376. Thefe authorities apply here with additional force, under the fan6"tion of the articles of Confederation,
which de-.lare, that I full faith and credit fhall be given in each of
" thefe flates to the records, a&S, and judicial proceedings of the
" courts and magittrates of every other Itate :" And ailfo, that,
' the free inhabitants of each of thefe hates, fhall be entitled to all
privileges and immunities of free citizens in the feveral flates ; and
Cthe people of each hlate thall have free ingrefs and regrefs to and
any other flate," See irt. 4.
THE CHIEF JUSrICE, after confideration, delivered the opinion
of the Court.
M'KEAN, C'."ef7ujlice.-This comes before the Court on a motion for leave- to enter an Exoieretur on the bail piece, upon this
principle, that the defendant has bcen difcharged tinder an infolvent
law of the fiate of Maryland,, which is in the nature 6f a general
bankrupt law. To this it has been objeaed, that the infolvent law
by which the defendant has been difchargcd, wxs made pinding the
a&iun; and therefore, ought not to operate in the prefent cafe, even
if
'"from

237
Sif

CAsE s ruled and adjudged in the

the laws of any particular country could be extended beyond the
jurifdi&ion of that country, which his likewife been denied; and,
it is faid, that in order to give a binding'force to laws, it is neceffary
that the perfon to be affe&ed thould have confented to them either
by himfelf, or his reprefentatives.
But, having confidered the principles of the law of nations, and
the reciprocal obligation of the flates under the articles of confederation, we are of opinion, that the a& of atRmbly by which the Defendant has been difcharged, mufr be confidered as a genexal bankrupt-law, made for general purpof-s, and equally advantageous to
all his creditors. To execute, therefore, upon his perfon out of the
flate in which he has been dircharged, would be giving a fuperiority
to fome creditors, and affording them a double fatisfation-to wit,
&-proportionable dividend of his property there, and the imprifonment of his perfon here.-It is true, that the laws of a particular
country, have in themflves no extra-territorial force, no coercive operation ; but by the confent of nations, they acquire an influence and
obligation, and, in many inflances, become' conclufive throughout
the world. A&s of pardon, marriage, and divorce, made in one
country, are received and binding in all countries.
In the ft.tte of
Delaware there is a law, a narrow and contra&ed one indeed, which
obliges executors or adminiftrators to difcharge the debts due from
the deceafed to his creditors within theftate, in preference to every
other. This the executor is obliged to comply with, becaufe he is
mmediately under the coercion'of the law which prefcribes it; fo
that the diftribution thus made, is certainly binding out of the flate,
and the law is in that refpe6t every where received ; for, it would be
more unjufi to compel the executor who aeed legally in his own
flate, to pay the money out of his pocket, than that the creditor
Thould loofe the amount of his demand.
With refpe& to the argument, that no perfm can bebound by laws
'to which he has not either dire&ly or virtually confented, it muft be
obferved that, though Mr. Millar, the plaintiff, was not a citizen
of Maryland, yet Mr. Hall wps; and he by the law in queflion, has
been obliged to transfer alt his effe&s for the benefit of all his cre,ditors. Having done this, we muff prefume that he has fairly done
it, and therefore to permit the taking his perfon here, would be to
attempt to compel him to perform an impoflibility, that is, to pay a
debt after he has been deprived of every means of payment,-an attempt which would, at leaff, amount to perpetual imprifonment,
unlefs the benevolence of his friends fhould interfere to difcharge
the Plaintiff's account.
From the nature of the a& then, it appears to be founded upon
equitable grounds, for general and jufR purpofes ; it ought therefore
to be regarded in all other countries, and fhould enjoy that weight,
in our decifions, which it naturally derives from general conveniency, expediency, juflice, and humanity. For, mutual convemency
policy, the c6nfent of nations, and the general principles of juffice,

torm

SUPREME COURT of Pennfyivania.

233

form a code which pervades all nations, and mult be every whzre
acknowledged and purfued.
Upon the whole, it is clear, that this tranfa&ion does not arife
infraudem legis, and that extending the law of lVar).landto its prefent
obje&, will be in no degree derogatory to the independence and
fovereignty of this ftate :-Therefore, let the exoneretur be entered.

REsp JBLICA

verfus GORDON.

'TldE Defendant was included in an a& of proclamation ifued

.Ldur*ing the late war, 'and not appearing within the tine prefcribed, was attainted of treafon for adhering to the king of Great
Britain, in confequence of which his elate was confifcated to the
ufe of the commonwealth, but it had never been taken into poffeflion.
He returned, fince the peace, to the ltate of Pennfylvania, and applied to the executive ccuncil, reprefenting that he was a minor at
the time of the attainder, and-was forcibly prevented by his guardian
from joining the American army ;-for which reafons he prayed a
reftoration ot his eltate. The council faid, they were ready to grant
him a pardon,' but that they had it not in their power to rellore his
eate, which was a matter of legiflative jurif!!iCtion. Mr. Gordon,'
therefore, addreffed feveral members of the general affembly, but he
was there anfwerel, that the executive council, or the fupreme court
ofjuftice, was the proper tribunal to hear and determine the merits
of his cafe. The D fendant, by the advice of his council, .gain
applied to the executive power, and requefted, that, to bring the
matter before the judges, the attorney-general might be dire&ed to
file a fuggeflion in the fupreme court, of the Defendant's being attainted in the manner above-mentioned.
This being done accordingly, Mr. Gordon gave bail for his appearance, -ind two pleas, ill. infancy, and 2dly. durefs, were filed, to
the fuggeffion thus made, on the behalf of the commonwealth to the former of thefe, the attorney-general demurred, and joined iffue on the latter.
But now

THE C

*r
I FJtUsTIcE delivered the opinion ofthecourt,that

any proceedings againf. Mr. Gordon, the Defendant, would contravene ant exprefs article in the treaty of peace and amity, entered
into, between the United States of America and Great B'itain, for
which reafon they could not fuflain the fuggeftion filed by the attorney-general. And the Defendant was accordingly difcharged.
STEINM ETZ

The obje& that the Defendant meant to accomplifi by this Proceeding, was to
reverfe the attainder; in confequence of which his title to the eflate would revive,
and, as it had not been appropriated or difpofed of by the Commonwealth, thbre.
would then be no obilacle to his taking immediate pofff.iion. The Legiflature foqu

afterwards paffed an, a6 in favor of Mr. G#rdon's pretcnflons.

GgS

178'

