CoMMoN PLZA5- of Philakeh'a County.

83
!'784.

HAGNEIL.V.irfus MUSGROVE.

T

HE plaintiff having had a verdi& in the abfcence of the defendant, -and having agreed to withdraw it, and fubmit to a
referrencej three perfons, nominated by the Court, accordingly
met.. Upon entering into the cafe, the parties, who were prefent,
began a warm altercation, which proving troublefome to the referrees, they ordered the difputants to withdraw, and called the
witneffes one after another, examining them. fkparately oui of the
hearing of both plaintiff and defendant, an& finally reported in favore of the former.
Thefe fa&s being eflablifhed, the report was fet afide, on motion of the defendant's Eounfel.
Levy for the plaintiff.-Lezas for the defendant.

SNOWnEN Affignee

pfus

HEMMING.,

N an a&ion of debt upon a bond, judgment being obtained, and
execution iffued, ff7lcocks moved to flay proceedings ulon this
ground ; that, though the bond was dated in June, the confideration, for which it was given, arofe before the ift of March 1781 ;
and, therefore, he contendeo1, that his client was within the prote&ion of the "A6 of Affembly pafled the 27 th of December 1784,
which entitles a defendant to a flay of execution, for a certain
time, upon tendering the intereft and cofts to the fheriff.
Bradford, for the plaintiff, was ,prepared with an affidavit to controvert the fa&s advanced in fupport of the motion ; but he forbore
reading it, and infifted that the Court could not travel into a confideration of the tranfaLions'for which the bond was given.
BY THE COURT :-It would occafion infinite trouble and confufion were the defendant's do&rine to be admitted, and it is imooffible'to fay where the mifchief would end. It is true, that beforq a jury, proof may -be made of the confideration, and of the
time of delivering a bond; but this A& of Afdrably which, in particular cafes, grants a delay of execution to the defendant, upon the
tender of the intereff and coils, muir, furely, at the fame time, recognize the written. inftrument as conclufive evidence of the contra&I. and we can enquire no farther.
JXilcocks took nothing by his motion.

THE

