COMMON

PLEAS,

Philadelphia

County:
March Term,

SCHLOSSER

T

1789.

verfus LESHER.

HIS was an a6lion of Inditatus Affumpfit for goods fold and

delivered. The Defendant pleaded Non ffumpfit and Non
Affitnpfit infrafex annos: The iffue on the Non AyumpJit was tried,
and a verdi& found for the Plaintiff. To the plea of the flatute of
limitations, the Plaintiff replied, a writ pf fummons iffued on a par'ticular day within the fix years, which was returned nihl. •
Whether the replication contained matter fufficient to prevent
the bar of the Oatute of limitations, was the queflion ; and after an
able difcuflion by Ingerf&l and Sergean, for the Plaintiff, and Ley
and Ylodd, for the Defendant, THE PRESIDMENT ftated the materiat
circumfitances and arguments, and delivered the opinion of the
Court as follows:
SHIPPEN, Prefdent.-Two points have been made in this cafe
by the Defendant's counfel :-ifl,
That it does not appear that the
procefs was flfued for the fame caufe of aion, as it is not continued to the time of filing the tieclaration.
And, 2dly, That if this
did appear, the fecond a6'tion fiould have been brought within a
reafonable time after the expiration of the fix years ; which. reafonable time they reflri& to one-year.
As to thefirfl point, ir is agreed by the counfel on both fide-.
and it is undoubtedly the law, that where an Originalis replied -.,
the pea of the flattate of limitations, it is fuficient to fhew wh-rn
the writ iffued. witbout any contiruancts; but where'the writ • aF ft La'i

,1:2
17 g 9 .

CASES ruled and adjudged in thd

Latitat from the King's Bench, orna Claufum fregit in the (,onmon
'Pleas, the continuances muft be fet forth to be entered to the time
of filing the bill, or declaration, in order to fhew that it was for
th6,fame caufe of a&ion.
. This gives rife to the queflion, whether our writs of Capias and
Sumnzns refemble more the Original writs, or the Latitat and Claufrnfiregil: Arid, in order to folve this queftion, it will be neceffary
to confider the reafon of ti-e diffirence between thefe writs in E.ngland.
The Latitatand Claufumfgit are both writs of refpafis ; yet
by the cotirfe of the Courts of.Ai'ng's Bench and Common Pleas, the
Plaintiffmay ground upon them declarations in any perfonal af"ions.
But, when the declaration is-in _ffiampfit (for infrance) a writ of
Trejpafs idhed within the fix years, could not be prefumed to be
a writ that iflued in that caufe, unlefs it was further lhewn in the
replication, that it was taken out with an intention to declare in
that aalion; and, as evidence of that intention, tha-t the continuances were entered from the time of ilruing it to the filing the
bill or declaration. But, in the cafe of an Originalproper to the
a&ion, that is never neceflary, becaufe.if the declaration was in
Affumft, the original wculd . ew it was iffied in cafe: if the declaration was upon a bond, the original would fhew it was i!Tued in
-debt; and, confequently, that it was a proper and legal foundation
for the affion : And the continuances are not neceflhry to be fhewn
as a proof that the writ ifluted for the fame caufe of adion ; for,
being fuch a writ as correfponded %Nith the declaration, the law
prefumes it was for the fame caufe ot aaion, unlefs the contrary is
ihewn,
That this is the reafon of the diffinffion between Originals, and
the writs of Latitat and Clau/itm fregit, to this curpofe, will appear
from this; that whenever the Writ which cori mences the adion,
is of ficht a nature as to correfpond with the declaraiion, we find it
Will be fullicient to fet it forth without the continuances. although
it he nft an ciginail: And, on the contrary, whenever the writ d&es
inot correfpond with the dcclaration, it will not fupport the replication without the continuances, although it he an original. An
inflance of the firft kind is the attachment of privilege in the Coinmon Pleas, which will be found by the precedents, always to ipecify the nature of the particular antion, whether in debt, or cafe,
which is afterwards declared upon ; and hence, we find, in i U1,/
j68. the replication ffhewing only the time cf iiuing the;wrt
without the continuances, wil be fui~cient. So, in tl,. icteried
cafe, when a common Claezpmfrcgii is the writ, alhough it be an
originalwritiffuing out of .bamncer, yt. not being ad-pred tothe
a6lion of 1 ,/Lan1.t or debt, beng onl, a tbundadon for t:hecep.,
-in the C(m ,on FPeas and intended merely to give that Court jur!diaion, it will iot be prefimed to be the foundation of ft, h an
a&ion, unlefs the continutances are lt forth from the time oJ iffuin; t,,:e writ. Hence i is evident, that it is from the di."greenica

COURT of COMMON PLEAS of Philadelphia Couny.
ment of the writ with the declaration only, tliat it becomes necef-

1789;

fary to enter the continuances, to fhew it iffued for the fame caufe t-'..A
of dalion, in order to prevent the bar of the flatute of limitations:.
And, after all, the entry of the continuances in thofe cafes where
they.are faid to be neceffary, is little more than matter of mere form,
as it appears in i Sid. 53, 6o, that they may be entered by the attorney in his chamber, at any time, even attet the flatute of limitations
is pleaded.
By our aa of affembly, and the prafice under it, the writs of

Capiasand Summons always fpecify the nature of the anion you are t6
declare upon, and are, therefore, fimilar, in this refpe&, to the originals out of Chancery, and the attachments ofprz,ilege in the Common
Pleas.
Thefecond point made by the defendants counfel is, thati admitting the plaintiff by iffuing the writ, has faved the bar of th6
flatute, yet, that the a~lion ought to have been profecuted again
within a reafonable time after the fix years expired, and that thai
reafonable time has been held to be one year.
In confidering the dates and times of the feveral tranfaktions, the
period during which the aift of affembly fufpended the act of limitations, that is, between the ift of .7anuary, 1776, and the 21ft of
June, 1784, is, to every purpofe, to be thrown out ofthe computation :-Then, from the time of the caufe of attion arifing, to the
time of iffuing the fummons, is 4 years, 9 months, and io days ;
from that time to the prcfecutingthe fuit again; is 2 years,.6 months
and 2 days; making in the whole 7 years, 3 months and 12 days,
The cafes cited in fupport of the fecond point, are all cafes
where, by the death of one of the parties, or from fame other caufe,
tho a&ion had abated, and the court, in confidering what was a reafonwble time to permit the party to bring a new aaion, have drawn
their reafonings from the equity of the ftatute, which provides only
for two cafes; one, where the plaintiff had obtained a judgment
which was reverfed for error, and, the other, where a verdict had
palled for the plaintiff, and the judgment was arrefled, and judgment given that the plaintiff flhould take nothing by his writ. But
other cafes arifing, which put the plaintiff in the like fituation by an
abatement of the a&ion, the Judges thought, that they ought to
-have a rearonable time after the expiration of the fix years to renew
their a6lions; fone of them fay, that reafonable time was in the
difcretion of the court, nd depended upon the circumifances of the
cafe; and others fay, that, within the equity of the flatute, thatreafonable time ought to 6ie one year But thefe are all cafes where the.
writ had a6tually abated, and could, confequently, afford no .fupport to the new .-ftion :-How are the cafes of Originalsand La!tiats,
wherc nothing had happened to abate the writs? They are confidercd as fubflffing foundations upon which the parties may profecim.a
their fuitb; in the one cafe, by entering the continuances lron tliI
time of filing out the writ, and, in the other, without any fuch
contiuarccs; in both cafes th.y are deemed fubifling writ-s an t! ihz

134.

79,

CAsS ruled and adjudged &c.

rommencement of the action, for the purpofe of taking the cafe out
of'the ftatute of limitations, and the profecution of the- fuit afterwards is not confidered in the light of a new a.tion, alfhough fome
procefs might be neceffary to bring the party into cou',t- In Lilly'f
PraMR. Reg. i9 , itis faid, "the taking out the writ of Latitat is in
" nature of filing an Original, and, by doing it, the fuit is com" flencedwitbin thd meaning of the flatute, although hedoes notde" dare again I the party within the time limited by the ftatute."
As the caes of fubifling writs and abated n&ions are thus totally
different, I have looked for cafes where there may be ime limited
time for proceeding upon the foundation of the old writ, when there
has been no abatement of it; and I have met with but one cafe in
whih fuch a limited time has been fuggefed. It is in 1 Sid. 53,
where rm'ifden, Juftice, rays, that he had known a filit continued
by Latitatfor 5 years, before the bill filed ; And Herne, Secondary,
laid, that a Latitat may be continued 7 years. If this may be confidered the limited time, the writ in the prefent ci fe is long within
it; as, excluding the fufpended period, the fuit was.again profecuted within two years and a half.
If this could have been confidered in the light of an abated writ,
2na a reatbnable time, in the difcretion of the Court, was the rule,
we ought certainly to take into our confideration the peculiar fithation of our country and the correfpondent laws, whith reftrained
creditors from profecuting their fints with the fame advantage as at
other times, as they couid take out executions only for one third of
their debts iq one year; and this certainly deterred many from pro•fecuting their fuits at all, during the continuance of that refiraint
On this ground, therefore, the allowance in the prefent cafe would
-bevery moderate, as it would not extend 3 nionths and a half be.yond the time contended for by the Defendant's Counfel..
On both points; we are of opinion, that the law is with the plain-

tMff.
Judgment fot the Plaintifr

SUPREME

