•CoIrT of' UOMMOR PLEAS,

Philad;phiaCouny.

-147

To difcontinue, or releafe four, and fign judgiqent upon the feth, .I785-would .be impoflible, becaufe the report exprefsly comprifes iikore
-than the fifth a&ion wasibrought for. And to cati upon the. refefrees,
and by their afliflance divide the rum, w6uld be an illegal firtch
of power, which'-was not to-be apprehended from the court. I'r,
.as to the point of confolidation,'has the court -Authority to do more
than grant imparlances in fome of the acions, to induce the .party'
to confent'thaj the trial of one haili decide the reft, 'which would
-be no relief in the.prefent cafe.
'On the.'x5 th of Noveni zr the 'PRESIDENT dliered the opinion
"of the'Court.as follows.
SMPPEN, PICESIDENT. The juitice and falrnefs of.th tranf'afion, on the part of'the. plaintiff, isCo obvious.; and the' coifhit
,of the parties to confolidate the a&ions, is fo naturally implied from
-the whiole of the proceeilings, that my brethren* think the report
.oughtto be confirmed.
For myfelf, I doubt the legality of it, &cauf I do not fee how.
it is poflible to enter 'udgment upon the report fo as to avoid error.
'The confolidation offa&ions is intended to fare expence, and migHt
have been ordered by the Court on motion.; °but this agreement of
the parties does not ap/pear to me to amount to a coifolidation, there
being five feveral rules of referrence in the five feveral a&ions; and
though,.indee4 hexeferrees-have .underttken to ccnfolidate themf,
J much doubt iheir authorityefo to do. 'Inftead'.f finding a grofs
fim due on all ihe notes, they might have found what was 'lue on
each note, and have -reported the feveral fums on the feparate rul&s
of referrence. However as my brethren think' the report ought 'to
hnd, let it be confirmed,, and the..plaintiff -may make up the record.
.as he-thinks fafeft.
Report confirmed.

MoARi's verfus TARIN.

A Cafe was made in this caufe for the opinion of'the Court,
J
fItating, that the defendant bought a bill of exchange drawn by
Benjamin Harrfon & Co. upon a houfe in France, which was prefented to the drawee in February 1784, .and protefled for non acceptance. Before it was prefented, hoaw~vmr, the drawee had become
infolvent, and -an arr8t was ifflued by the French government, prohibiting the inftitution of fuits againft him for a.certain time. When
the bill became due.(the arrt Ihill continuing in force) it was again
prefented, and, on the Sth of .7une 1784, protefted for xnpayment.
Without any knowledge of the fecond proteff, and without any fuir
or c6mpulfion of law, the plaintf, wro'was onof the partners ot
the company that drew the bill, repaid the defendant the pringipal,
intereft, and charges, with 2opercent damages: -But, afterwards,.conceiving that he had paid, the 2o per cent damages in his own wrong,
_he.bronght Yhis aaion to recover back the amount.'
T 2
Sergearn

148

1785.

1

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

Se."iant, for the defendant, contended generally, that. an -a1:io.i
lay againft the drawer of a bill of exchange upon a protelt for nonacceptance only. tun. 8.8. ] P". 77. 83. 85- Buil A. P. 269. mtug,
55. But that, at sny rate, alttr a voluntary and delibLrate payment,
tile plaintiff in an a&ion for money had and rcceivcd, ought not to
recover what the defen',ant m-ightfaidy accept.
&'Yiljn, for the plaintiff, de.-ied tha:t the cafes from Cunnnghamn
were in point ; difputed the 2uhority of the cgfe in Buller; and afferted that the decifien in Douglas, being pofterior to the revohtloit
was not law here. He contenced that the contra& of the drawer
was not that his bill fhould be accepted, but that it fhould be paid ;
that there was no breach 'till after the day of payment; that the
protcft muff ihen be made, or, at leaft, within the day of grace, to
entitle the holder to recover from the drawer. Lo RaY)m. 743. and
tbt the a& of 12 X. 3. c. 70. which gives the holder go per cent dampages, mentions only bilis returned unpaid, and not unaccepted.
ie urged ftrongly that the readinels of the plaintiff in taking up
his 'bills, Thould operate in favour of the prefent ation, which requi red only an equitable right to maintain it, and which it would
therefore be incongruous to faywas more favourable for him, who put
his creditor to the vexation and delay of a law fuit, than to the man
of honor and integrity, who, in his eagernefs to do juftice, had erroneoufly paid more than he was bound to pay. And, he added,
that the 2o per cent damages, was im pofed as a penalty. and no confideration paid for it by the purchafer of a bill, -,ho therefore, had
no right in confcience to retain it.
The Court held the cafe under advifement till the 2ift of No-r
'vember, whea THE PRESIDENT delivered their opinion as follows.
SHIPPEN, Prefldet.-This is an a6tion for money had and received to the plaintiff's ufe. The fa&s are, that a bill of exchange
was drawn on a houfe in France .by Benjamin Harrifn & -Company, of which company the plaintiff was one, in favour-of the defeidant, or-fome other perfon, who indorfed the bill to the defendant. The bill I eiag prefented to the drawee, he refufed to accept it,
and a proteft was made for non acceptance -Thebill with the protefl
was lnt back, and the.plaintiff being applied to for payment, voluntarily paid the defendant both principal and damages. -This a6tion is
bi ought on an implied .ffumpfit io recover back part of the money,
to R itj th, damages, as paid by miftake; the plaintiff contending,
that to compel him to the piyment of damages, there ought'.not
only to have been a jroteft for non acceptance.but likewife a protelt
if )r non payn; and'that having paid .thofe damages, when by law
be was not 'obliged -to pay tli6m, .hc ought in ju.fice to recovwr tie money back.
This.is a liberal kind ofa&ion, arxi will lie m all cais where by
the tes of natural juftice and equity the de'tndant ought to refund
the monev paid to him ; but where the part., might with agood con1fnce receive the money, and there was no deceit or untair practice

'COURT of COMMON PIEAs. FbilP4soohiaCout.

"

X4

,tica in obtaining it, although it was money which the party could 17'85..
not recover by la v,this a&ion has never been fo far extended as to _
-enable the party who paid the money voluntarily, to recover it back
again. The cafe or Lowrey v9 Bourdieu in D5ug. 42;, and that of
Farmer vs drundl in 2"Black. R. 825, are full to this point.
In the prefent cafe the defendant had prefented the bill to the
drawee for acceptance; and on refufal got it protefted. Shortly after,
and before th-.day of payment, an arrt irom the King of France
prohibi.ts the creditors oi the drawee from fuing him; upon which
the bill was immediately ient 5ack, and Mr. Morris, without waiting fbr a prite.t for non payment, voluntarily takcs up the bill and
pays the damages. A proteit for non payveni, however, appears to
have been made in Frznce before the money was paid by Mr. Marris, although he did not know it. The defendant has ated with
fairnefs, and lain out of his money, and might with a good confcience receive the legal damages,
The point of law principally agitated in this caufe, whether a
proteft for non acceptanct only, is fufficient to recover the money
from the drawer, is not material to be determined in this a&ion,
,becaufe, as it is voluntarily paid, and the defendant might onfiftent
with juffice receiye it, whether that point of law is for, or againft
the plaintiff; we think he cannot recover the money back.
Judgment for the defendant.
HENDERSON

verfus ALLEN.

judgment had been entered at the fettlement of the docket, and
the defendant was taken in execution on a Ca. Sa. returnable
to December Term 1785. He now applied for the benefit of the
infolvent a&s, although he was not taken in execution till the 26th
of Septembr, and his petition was preferitted fubfequent to the application raade by the debtors, on the third day of the term.
Tm COURT faid that the praffice under the aa for the relief
bf infolvent debtors, was, that only thofe fhould be difcharged,
-who made their application within the three firi days of the term;
for, otherwife, the Court might be continually employed on this bu*finefs, to the delay and detinent of every other.
The Prothonotary inentioned, on this occafion, that it was the
.conftant pratice to enquire, whether the writ of execution was
returnable to the term, at which the defendant applied for his
.ifcharge.
The
•
petition wa4 difmified.
.Bnkfon for theplaintif-Rawle for the defendant.
A

