469

SUFRFjME COURT Of Pennfyl1ania.

BRYAN, Jufice:-As I agree entirely in the,:pinions 7%:n by
has agried, I fall colthe Chief7ufice, Ior the realigns which lie

tent myfeltwith generally declacing, that I thindk the judgment,

orr thefe records ought both to be reverfed.
BY THE COUR T:-Let the judgments of the Court below, on

both records, be fertafide.
RESPUBLICA verfus

T

Negro

BETSEY,

et al.

HIS was a Habeas Corpus ad fibjic.end,,n, which had been

:illowed by Mr. juf.iceBRYAN,, and, afterwcards, brought by
him before the Court. The cafe was twice argued ; firlt on the
29th of )une 1786, by Bradord, on behalf of Samuel .1oJre, who
claimed the negroesas his fervants, and by Lewis, in behalf of the
negroes ;-and a fecond time, in April term r7o. by the fame counfel lor the claimant, and by Ingerhil and F7,I/her for the dendants.
The Court havit!g heldthe matterunder atd'ifement till the prefent
tarm, the Judges delivered their opinions feparately, in thefollowing.order; the Chief juflfice flating the circum-(tances of the caf,
couriof his obfervations.
and the arguments of the Counfel, in tire
IE
AIN, C'hi1fVjuflice:-The negro Bey'y, for whom the Haheas Csrpus idiied (and upon whofe fate, that of the two other ne-.
xTS, tj w:t,
zA-rc,
groes dtpends) was born before the ziiof
in the year 1779. and her name, age, fe.; &z. were nor re,,iffered
in the office of z.e Clerk of the Peace of the county ofr,

in

which the mafter, Samuel eAr'f2re, then inhabited, on, or before,
r
178o, agreeably to the direeions of the acof
the irtoft .Mvetber,
Admbly, entitled, " An at for the gradual abolitioti of Slavery,"
palled on the it of ;Mrch, 78o. See 2 Sate Laws 282.
The queftion, that is fibmifed to our conlideration upon thefe
faas- is, whetherthe negro can be held as a fervant nntil fheattains
t!e age of twent' e;--ht xcars? or, whether fhe is ':!:dl fr-c ?
On the part of the ma;ter, it hai been argued, that, although
by the fi.-th and tc:'h 1.dftions of the at of Alrembly, the owner,
or mailer, of any negro, or. -ulatto, fl-ve, or fzrvan for life, or
for thirty one yeirs, then within t:, State, ar hhi lawful atorney;
ought to caufe fuchi negro, or mulatto, to be regillered on, or belore, "the Ilt day of i't.ve-m-r 78o; yet, by the fmurth fcdion, it
is provided, that every nearo, or mulatto child, born within t1s
State, after the pafling of the a&, who, io caf'e the a,'I had not
paiFed, would have been born a fervant for thirty one years, for^
age of t.;%ety
life, or a flave, thould be deermed a fervant until tire
eight years. It was urged all'b, that the Legiflature could not intend a greater favor to negroes and mul:ittoes, born as flaves, or
fervants for life, or until the age of thirtyone years, befre the par:ing of that a&, than to thole Dorn at!.r; that the itdtt;ti:tz of the
Legillature is to govern in the confli udtion of this -a&, which, a'
W'Cij

1789-

470
1789.

'CAsas

ruled and adjudged in the

well as in all other legiflative a&s, in doubtful cafes, muft be confqrued according tothe reafon and fenfe of the law-makers, exrJ
in the feveral parts of the a&, or to be colleeled by confidering the
frame and defignof the whole. xi Mod. i6i. And that the maxim
is, Uhi e dem ratio%ibi idem jus.
For the negro Betey,, the counfel have agreed in the rule for the
conftru&ion of a&s of Affembly, but, they argue that the 5 th
fe&eion of 'the a& under confideratioa is psfitive, that all negroes
and mulattoes, held as flaves, or fervants for life, or until the age
of thirty one years, fhould be regilaered before the ift of November
z78o, or that they fiould be free; that this was the intention of
the Legiflature is confirmed by the ioth' fe~tiofi, which declares
that they fhall be deemed freemen and free-womer ; that where
iihe words are exp, efi and p fitive, there is no room left for conifruc"tion; that the law fivors liberly more than property; and that if the
c.fe hould appear doubtful, the judgment 1hould be in favor of the
iberly of negro Betje.

Since the argument, the Court have again read the a& of Affembly and maturely confidcrcd that, and the feveral reafons urged bythe
learned Counfel on both. fides ; and as this is the fi.-ft cafe that has
come befbre them upon the argumentsof Counfel, and asthejudgment now to be given, will govern it. all cafes of the like fort for
the future, it feems to be proper to give the grounds and reafons
upon which they found their decifion.
It may be obferved, that neither in the fyfth nor tenth fte&iorrs,
j.t it faid, that negroes or mi-lattoes held as flaves, or for life, or
until thirty one'years of age, not regiflered on or before the ift of
,Viem/ber i78o, fhail befree, and difcharged from any longerfervice,
but only (by the 5th fe&t.) that they fhall not be deemed to be
foVes, or fervtntsfer life, or until the age of thirty one years; and
by th.. teth fecqion it is added, that they ihall be deemed asfreemen
andfree-women. The words " freemen andfree-women." feem to
lia,e been ufed in oppofition to the word "flaves," or " fervantsfor
I life," or, " until the age ofthirty one years," and not to mean, that
they fhall be abfolutely free from every fpecies of fervitude. Had,
thiis been the intention of the Legifiature, words were eafily to be
found to exprefs it in the moft unequivocal manner.
There is a fe&ion in thig a& of Affembly, which was not ad,rerted to by the Counfel on the firft hearing, that contribtes to
clear up the intention of the Legiflature on this point: It is the
fixih, and cones in by way of provifo or reffraint upon theffth.
There, the owners or malers" of any fuch negroes or mulattoes,
"tho' not regifered," fhall be anfwerable for their maintenance in
cafe they become pauperf, unlefs fuch owners or maflers flall
manumit them before they arrive at the age oft-' enty eight years ;
by which it is evidently imrlied, that the former owners or mafiers
have an interef in'them, notwithflanding they fhould not
may !fill
-be regiftered ; otherwife, why fhould it be mde a condition of an

exemption

SuPREM.sE COURT of Pen 'v ,ia.

47I

exemption from maintenance, that they fliould execute and record
in the proper county a deed or inl'trument, fecuring to foch tlAvcs,
or fervants, their freedom before twenty eight years eiage

The int.-re/) remaining to the owner, or matfer, in "n unrez..ftered negro or mulatto, is not exprefsly declared in any part ohn
ac; but from the fcope of the wltole it may be coilcaed, thatthe
meaning and intention of the Legillature was, that all nezro or
inulatto flaves, or fsrvants for lila, of until they lhould !-,fiveto
thirty one years of age, within the State at the time of palittg the
a61, who were theti under the age of twenty eight years, mnjvit be
detained as fervants until they arrived to that age, thu:g!i thq-},
lh,.,uld not be regitlered; but if the ma!ter detained them in fervice until that age, and they ihould atterwards become chargeable,
in fuch cafe, he, his executors, adminitlraturs, or aifaga, lhotld.
be obliged to maintain them. This conlituaioa feens to be Liztier warranted from that part of the filth fejion, which ali.Z.s
the reafon for regiftering the names, ages, and fexes of flaves, and.
fervants for life, and until thirty one vears of aae, to vi it, in order
to afcertain and diitingui.'h tatm, from'all other pcrions; thorf" b-in
before, or after, pailing the a&, and under t venty eight years of
age, as we'l as thofe who ihould not be regil-red, thoug. abore
twenty eight years of age.
Though the ad oi Ah1cxrnbly with refpe& to this que'lion i
not fo clear as it might have been, and as I could vviih it, and.
though diferent gentlemen may reafnablv entertain different fentiments concerning it, yet as I mut give an opinior, it muit be mY
own. Upon the whole then, I think, that negro Bei-ey Ihould
remain as a fervant until fhe fhall arrive to the age of twenty eight
years, unlcfs freed fooner by, her matcr; and that fne be thien intitled to. the like freedom dues and other privilegcs, as it the had
been born after palling the a-'t for the gradual abolition of ilavery.
I know not what other confiruffion to put on the fixth fedion.
If the word " not" in the fifi'h line front the end of this fed.1ion, had
becn expunged, I lhould have been ofa diffierent opinion; but the
Lgoidadt has been examined, and the wvord, "nt"isin
it. The
Leiaure mutt have had foine rueaniigin tingt-his word, as well
~sin the fentence that pro%ides tha:, ." unlefs his orher inajie r
" owner, thall, belre fitch flave or fervant attain his or her twenty
"eighth )ear, execute and record in the proper county, a deed or
iulrument, Jeurlng to ffich flave or fervant his or herfreednm."
By this judgment, if I fhould be mittaken, the negro Bat/,v is
in no worle tituation, than it lhe had been born after the p-tiing
the art, and I do not know a reaton why lhe fhould be in a better.
Were fhe dillharged from her matler, ie would be incapable to
take care of herlIlf, and her parents are unable to educate her:
She cannot fuffer 1o much by living with a good miler, as being
with poor and ignorant parents. By a contrary judgment, the, as
I have jufi hinted, would he little banefited, and her niatier, who
hithsa:t

1789.

472
1789.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

hitherto has derived no advantage from her fervices, and has been
fubjeqed to conliderable expences for her food, clothing, and Iodging would be a great ftifferer; fo that the balance on this confideration feems, likewite, to preponderate on the fide for ,, hich I have

declared my opinion.
ATLEE, 7.uji':-This caufe was argued in the Supreme Court
in une 17b6 ; but as Mr. u/qlice RusH and myfelf were then abfent, anotier argument was fequefled for our fa isffa&ion, and the
gentlemen of Counfel for the parties haviing obflgingly acquicfced
in our wilh.
The queftion arifes upun an a& of Afrmblu of this State, intitled, " An a& for the gradual abolition of Slavery," paired on the
if lay of Marchin the year 1780; and it is, whethera negro child
bornbe,re the pafing of that a&, and not regidered agreeably to
the dire&ions it contains, 1hall be free, or be in a fimihir fituation
with thofe born after the pafling of the a&, that is a fervant until
twenty eight years of age?
It is agreed that thefe negro children were b6rn before the pafling
of the a6, and that they and their parents were at that time the
flaves, or fervants for life, of Samuel loore of Chefler county, who
negeed to regitcr them agreeably to the directions of the 2a.
In confequence ofthis negled dn his part, the parents have obtained their iteedom, and the. children now fuek it, that they may follow, and be under the care and diredion of, tnofe parents, inflead
of a rarer.
The ad, after declaring in the third fedion, that negroes and
mulattoe., born after it as patied, fhall notbe deemed flaves, or
fervants for life, and extinguiihing.all flavery of children in confequence of the flavery of their mother, provides in tie fourth fedion,
that fuch children as fhould bz born after the pAFing of the law
(who would, in cafe it had not been made, have been born fervarns
.or years, or life, or flaves) fhall ferve until th.ey att.di the age of
twcnty eight years, and, in cafe of fuch children being abandoned
by the mailer or mifirefs, direds their being placed out apprentices
by the overfeers ol the poor.
So tar the ad coiiflnes itfuif to children ,*rn after it was paffed,
The ioilowing fedion, to wit, the fifth, includes every defcription
of there people of both fexes and ali ages, and under this and tha
tenth fe~lion it is, that the parents of thicfe children have obtained
their freedom. This dire~ts that every owaer of negro and mulatto flaves, or fervants for life, or till the age of thirty one years, at
that time within the Statc, fliall caufe the names, ages, and fexes
of fuch their Hlaves and fervants to be regiftered, or entered on record, in books to be provided for that pirpofe by the Clerks of the
feflionsin the feveral counties of the State, on or before the firdday
o! \TvcmPbzer 1780 ; and declares that no negro or mulatto then
within the State, fhall, from abd alter the fiid firt day of NovemIrr, be deemed a flave, or fervcant Afor life, or till the age of thirty
o=

SUPREME COURT of Penrr'lvan.-a.

473

one years, fnilefs his, or her name, fhbll be entered as aforefeid on 1 789.
fluch recoid. And by the tenth it is enaatd and declared, that no
man or woman of anV nation or colour, except the negroes and
mulatoes, who I all be regiiaered as aforefaid, fhall be deemed,
adjudged, or holden, within the territories of this Commonwealth,
as flaves, or fErvants f'br life; but as freemen and free-%omen.
Undc-r thefe fe6lions of the a&, it (hould feem, that freedom is
fecured to every negro or mulatto within the State, at the time ot
making the a&, who was not regiftered agreeably to its directions,
on the firft day of No-vember 78o: but a doubt hath arifen under
the fixth fection, with refpe&to thofe, who are under the age of
twenty eight years, though born befire the making of the a&.
This feclion comes in by way of provifo to the fifth, and declares, That any perfons who had the ownerfhip or right to the
fervice of any negro, or mul:tio, at the time of pahling the act,
his, or her, heirs, executors adminifirators, and atfigns, fh..ll be
liable to the overfeers of the poor of the city or place to which fuch
negro or mulatto ihall become chargeable, fcr the expenc. s fiich
overfecr may be put to, -'hrough the negLe& of the owner, maler,
or millrefs of fuch negro or mulatto, notwithilanding the name
and other defcriptions ot fuch negro or mulattofihall nt be entered
and recorded as aforefaid; unlefs the marker or owner fhall, before
fuch flave or fervant attain his or her twenty eighth year, execute
and record in the proper county, a deed or infirument fecuing to
fuch flave or fervant, his or her lreedo-m.
This claufe has given rife to the argument, and it is contended,
on behalf of Samuel.Aloore, that he his a right, upon a iun and
reafonable conftru(iion of it, to the fervice of thefe children, unil
they arrive to their refpe&ive agesof twenty eight years, notwithflanding they were born before the paffing of the a&, and were
not regiftered : But I cannot hold with that opinion.
The fifth felion of the a& requires entries of all the negro and
mulatto.flaves, or fervants for life, or till the age of thirty oneyes,
within the State at the time of making the act; it djre ! thve rode
of thofe entries ; it fixes the time within which the entries shall be
made ; and, without any exception in refpe& to their ages, declares that no negro or mulatto then within the S tate, fIuld be
deemed a flave or fervant for life, or for thirty one years, unlefs his
or her name lhould be regiftered within the time limited. The
mater or owner had his e4e&ion whether to enter them, or not ;
it he did, he fecured to himfelf the right he had in them before the
making of the law; -and, if he did not, it appears to have been the
intention of the Legiflature that he Ihould forfeit all right to their
fervices. The tenth feffion, I think, fhows this exprefsly; for,
it not only enacls that fich unregiftered perfons fhall not be deemed as flaves, or fervants for life, as in the other feclions, but -,dds,
thatthe'y hall not be holden or adjudged foi and further, that they

OQO

fhafl

474
1'789.
- -

CAsES ruled and adjudged in the

Thall be deemed, adjudged, and holden, as freemen and free-women,
in oppofition, to every fpecies of fervitude before taken notice otAs this ambiguous fefion feems annexed indeed ns a
in the ac.
provifo to the fifth, it may be taken as intended to deter perfoms
from holding.in their fervice negroes and mulattoes, whom they
had not regitiered according to law.
Had the Legiflature intended, that all thofe who were born before the making of the a&, and had not attained the age of twenty
eight years, fliould ferve till they arrived to that age, they would
have thewn that intention in exprefs terhs. As perfons of that
defcription among the negroes and mulattoes, made a great part of
their number, they would have made provifion for thofe of tender
age, who might happen to be abandoned by their owners, as they
have done with refpe& to thofe born after the aS and abandoned ;
they would have made like provifion for their redrefs in c-fe of
fevere treatme.t, and, in proportion to their term of fervitude before they attained the age of twenty eight years, they would have
direted freedom dues, as the) have done for the others.
With refpe& to perfons of this colour, thofe who were ftr.'ants
among us before the paffing of the aS, %ere either flaves, or fervants tor thirty one years: the fervitude of twenty eight years is
created by this aa, znd appears to me to be limited to thofe who
are born of regiftered ilaves after it was paied, and to thofe only.
The pnreamble to the aS, among the unhappy circumnfances formerly attending thefe people, mentions their being caft into the
deepeft ai.ion by an unnatural feparation and fale of hufband
and wife, from each other, and from their children. In the prefent care, it is attempted to feparate thefe children from their parents, by a conftruefion which appears to me to clafh with the intention of the makers of the law; while fuch a conftrution as will
fecure freedom t6 them, and reflore them to their parents, will I
think, agree beft with the defign of the Legiflature.
I am, thertfore, of opinion, that the implied conftrufion contended for inbehalf of Samuel Moore, on a doubtful and dark claufe
in the aSl, cannot be admitted to opperate in his favour, againft
the exprefs letter and direfion of its fifth and tenth fec'tions ; and,
cot.fequently, that thefe perfons ought to be difcharged from his
ferviLe.
:---The queflion on the Habeas Corpus, in the
RusH, Jue
cafe of Sanuil l/dore's negroes, is a queftion of conftrufion, arifing on the aS for the gradual abolition of flavery.
It is admitted, that thofe negroes were born before the firfi of
M11arch 1780, the date of the law ; and that Sanuel Aore, who
now claims them, was then in poffeffion of them, and that he negleLoed toregifer them. Itis zlfo admitted, that they were flares
Jor life, when the aS paffed.

SUP, aME CoURT of Pennfylvania.

475

On the one hand, it is contended, that his negle&ing to regifler x789.
them, is attended with an entire lofs of their fervice for life; and, "
on the other, that it divefts the right only from and after the age
of twenty eight years.
Whatever be the intention of the Legiflature, that muff govern.
But the difficulty is to find out the intention. An aa of Aflkmbly,
being the declared will of the Legiflature, isto be conilrued altogether ; like the laft will and teftament of an individual.
When the aE for the gradual abolition of flavery paffed, there
were in Peinj3~lvania two tpecies of flavery derived from birth ; the
one being a flavery for lite, the other for thirty one years. The
latter took place where a child was born of a white mother by a
black father. The ufage in fuch cafe has been, to hold the iffue
in flaviry till the age of thirty one years, in conrequence of its bafe
birth. This flhews the xeafon why the Legiflature have ufed the
terms ,1flave, or fervant for lire, or thirty one years," in the fifth
fe&ion of the a& : The words are, "No negro or mulatto withirt
this State, fhall, after the firfi of Novsmnber, be deemed a flave, or
fervant for life, or fifl the age of thirty one years, unlefs entered
upon record ;" to prevent and abolifh flavery, arifing from. biith,
being the grcat obje& of the law, as may be feen in the third fection of tha a& now under c6nfideration. It (hews further, that
thofe expreflions were notadooted by the Legiflattare, with a defign
to admit flavery till the age of twenty eightr in the cafe of children
born before the a&.
By the particular wording of the tenth fe&ion, itwould feem, at
firfi view, as if the right to fervice in the cafe of a iegiflered flave,
-ho was fuch by his birth, till the age of thirty one years, was
either wholly taken away; or, thit regiftering him, would make
him aflave for life, The words are differentfrom the fifth fe&ion,
and- are remarkable. The elaufe runs, 11No man, or woman,
be a flave, or ferofany nation, or colonr, except regiflered, fliall
vant for life, but free." Here the words, '"or till the age of thirty
one years," are omitted. Now, if no man of woman, unlefs regiftered, can be a flave forlife, it feem,; to be anatural confequencee
that if regiftered, they will become flaves for life, But this conflru&ion is moft certainly erroneous ; becaufe it proves too much,
as it would include flavesfor thirty one years. Again ; if regiflering does riot make him a fervant for life, which it cannot do, fo
neither does this claufe give the mafler a right, in confequence of
regiflering fuch negro, to detain him till the age ofthirty one years.
In the genuine and liberal conftru&ion, therefore, of the tenth fection, the words, " or till the age of thirty one years," fhould be
fupplied ; and then it will fpeak the fame language with the fifth
fedt on, and convey the fame idea.
The true intent and meaning, then, of thofetwo feaions, confidered in one view, I take to be, that all negroes and mulattoes
born

76
7'789.

.CASES ruled and adjudged in the

born at the ime of paRlng the a&, miall be free from every degree

~ of fervitnde, unlefs rcgiftered by.thofe who had a right to their fer.,

vice for life. or thirty one years, or by their attornies.
This cbnftrudcion of the la w, is corroborated by adverting to the
fourth feion ot the a&. By this fedion,-in cafe any ajer born
child fhould be abandoned by its mafer or miftrefs, from an idea
that its fervice till the ageof twenty eight, was notafufficient comPenfation for bringing it up, or from any other caufe, the overfeers
aredireled to take charge of it :-But why provide for a child borhi
after the ad~, in cafe it fhould be abandoned, and not for a child
born . eyfre the adt. in a firnilar fituauon ? Surely "n abandonment
was as likely to happen in the one cafe, as in the other, and from
the fiame caufe. 'The filence of the Legiflature on this point, affords a flrking argument to prove, that they never entertained an
.idea that children born bore the a&, were to be fervants till the
age of -twenty eight; otherwife, the fame provifion would have
been made in both cafes. The mailer, in the cafe before the
Court, had it in his power to have acquired a right to the children
for life, if he had chofen to regifler them ; or, by negle&ing it, to
give them up for ever: And this obfervation appears to me a ltisfadory anfwer to the argument, that children born befure the ad,
ought not to be placed in a better fituation than thofe born after it.
The mailer might have put them in a muth worfe fituation ; and,
having run that chance, they ought not now to be placed on the
fame fbotin, with thole born after the a&.
But the greateft difficulty in ihe caufe (till remains ; that is, the
fixth fedion of the a8.
By this claufe, "' Every owner of a negro or mulatto, at the time
of pallingthe _I, his heirs, executors, adminifirators, 'and alfigns,
fThaU be liable io the overfeers of the poor, where fuch negro or
mulatto fhall become chargeable, for fuch neceffary exl*ences as
*the overfeers may be put to, through the negle& ot the owner or
mailcr of fuch negro or mulatto; notwithfilanding the name and
other defcriptions of fuchnegro or mulatto thall not be entered and
recorded as afoie&?,id ; unlefs his mailer or owner flall, before fuch
*flave or fervart attain his twenty eighth year, execute and record.
in the proper county, a deed or inftrument fecuring to fuch flave or
.fcrvant his freedom"
The firft obfervation to be made on this fe6.ion is, that the
negled of the owner or mailer therein mentioned, does not mean
lis-negle& to regifter, but his negleing to provide for the negro,
whereby the overfeers are obliged to do it.
,I have on feveral former occafions confidered this claufe with a
good deal of attcntion. I once fufpeded there was a miilake in it,
2nd that the word not inould be expunged ini the paragraph which
fays, " bitwithpading the.name and other defcriptionm of fuch
uegro or mu!atto fhail nmt be entered and recorded as aforefaid."
Accordingly

SUPRFEM

COURT of Pnnfylvanid.

477

Accordingly, I examined at the Roll's office, the law figned by the
Speaker, and alfo the recorded a&, but f9 und them both correfpond
with the printed law. I ftill think, however, -in confiruing the
a&, that word fhould be reje&ded. The claufe then will mean
this,-that, notwithftandhig fuch a& of regiftering, whereby a
xight is vefed in the maflfr, yet in cafe the negro fhould become
unable to fupport himfelf, and the overfeers fhould do it, the mafter fhould be liable to them. In other words, although you comply with the law, and regifter your Negro, which will make him
your property ; yet, that circumfiance fhall not exempt you from
the burthen of fupporting him afterwards; unlefs you fet him tree
by deed, recorded in the proper county. .before he attains the age of
twenty-eight years.
It it !hould be obferved, that this would make the Legiflature
fay a very idle thing, to wit, that a man fhall be bound to fupport
his own flave; I anfwer, the claure goes further : It prohibits him
from abandoning his right, unlcf he does it before his arrival at the
age of twenty-e6ght; and where at the time of regiftering him he was
abovr thatage, he can never afterwards abandon his right, but fhallremain always liable to fupport him. Twenty-eightyears was efteemed
a proper age, in cafe of emancipation, under which, it might be
reafoiably fuppofed, thataNegro by a courfe of induftry for a number of years, might add fo much to the pub] ic ftock ofwealth, as to be
entitled to receive fupport from the public, if he fhould be unable
to help himfelf.
By the old law, a perfon might fet free his Negro at any age,.
on gi ving fecurity at the County Court, that he fhould hot become,
chargeable to the public, but that law being repealed by the a&
now under confideration, it became neceffary to reflrain-the exercife of that right, and to put it on fome equitable footing;. which
this claufe has done ; by ordering, that the owner of a Negro,
although regiftered, fhall always be liable for any neceffary expences
the public may be put to, through his negleding to povide for
him, unlefs he Ihall fet him free before the age of twenty eight,
in the manner prefcribed by the a&.
This conftrution of the fixth fe~Lion is fill further confirmed
by attending to the word aligns; every owner of a Negro, his executors, adminiftrators and affligns, fhall be liable although the Ne-.
gro be not entered and recorded. But there can be no affignee of
an unregifered Negro, becaufe he is free. The claufe, therefore,
plainly fuppofes a transferrable property in fuch Negro to exift,
which can only be by regiftering.
To thi's coriftru&ion it may be objeded, that there will be no
precifion in the -&, in cafe of a willful negle& to regifter old Negroes, with a view to'throw them on the public; for, by not regiftring them, they became free. It would be a fufficient anfwer to
lay,

1789.

478
1789.
v"

CAsEs ruled and a'djudgied in the

fay; that if due provifion be not made in every poflible contingency,the evil muff remain until the legiflature think fit to remove it by
a new law on the fubjea. But, we may obferve, that, in faEt,
there could have been few Negroes fo old as to be abfulutely ulelefs; and liii fewer naflters fo forgetful of paff fervices, and infenfible to the feelings of humanity, as to negle& regiftering their
old Negroes, in order to turn them out of doors, and render them a
burthen to the public. As nothing of this kind has ever yet been
heard of, we may fafely pronounce, that the legiflature has aled
wifely in fuppofing that any provifion in fuch cafe, would have
been entirely fuperfluous.
Upon the whole, if we read the a& without the word not, the
law in all its parts will appear a confiftent and rational fyftem.- In
any other view of it, nothing can be more obfcure, 'perplexed, and
unintelligible. The word in all piobability has flipt into the a& by
inadvertence; fofme member miftaking the defign of the claufe, and
moving ihat as an amendment, which has proved the fource of fo
much intricacy and litigation.
Inftances are not wanting Where, in conftruing wills, courts have
rejected or fupplied words, to comply with the intention of the tef-tator. It is not neceffary to cite the authorities to this purpofe,
as they are familiar to every one.
In the conflrueion of ftatutes too, Judges have fometimes gone
contrary to the general.words of it. They have expounded the
words of an a& contraty to the text, to make it agree with reafon
and equity. 19 Vinir. 514. There can be no expofition againif the
dir'letterof an explanatory flatute, which admits there may be
againit an original fiatute W'here the terms and letter of a flatute
are obfcure and difficalt, We muft refort tothe intent. 1Vner.
19
5r7.
32o. Though the flatute of i Eliz. makes voidall lea fes by Biffops,
to allintents and purpo/es, yet the leafe is good againft the leffor.
To which cafes I will only add a determination lately given in this
court, in the cafe of Levinz vs. ,ill. (Ant. 430.) Although the
words of our a&t ofAffembly declare, 11that no mortgage deed fhall
be good or fufficient to pats any freehold or inheritance, or any eftate for life, or years, unlefs recorded within fix months from the
date ;" yet this court very properly held fuch mortgage good againfi thle mortgagor ; a dccifion which is certainly repugnant to
the exprefs words and letter of the atSt.
I concur, therefore, with my brother, Judge ATLSr, that the negro
children Betfy, Cat,, and I'ac, mentioned in the return to the HaI eas Corpus as detained by Samuel Moore, fhould be difcharged;
it appearing to me, he holds them in cuftody agaioft the law of tha
land.
BRTAN, 7Zuj/?ct In this cafe, I" confers, that hitherto I have
agreed in opinion with THE CHIJSJuTICE; but I nowunite with
my

SUPRIUZM

COURT Of

Pernihkrnni.

479

my brothers ATLER and RusH, upon this principle, that it was in 1789.
the power of Saiud Moore to have fecured the fervice of the Ne- L__v.
grots in queftion; and, having omitted to do fo, he cannot, on the
one hand, take ndvantage oi" his own negligence ; nor, on the
omher, will an ignorance ot the law- excufe him. The tenth feci;(-n of the A& of Affembly feems, indeed, inaccurate and infenisle; but,as upona claufeor fo obfcurea kind, I wouldnot wifh to
prefs ain argument againt liberty, I muft declare my voice to be in
iave" of the difcharge of the Negro-.
BY

THE

CoUTr:-Let the Negroesbe difcharged.

