COMMON

PLEAS,

Philadelphia

County
December Term 1788...

KUNCxLE

ve.fus

KUNCL'E.

K XCEPTIONS were'filed to the report of. Referees in this,
caufe ;"which ,ere argued 6n the loth of Awnber, by Wvilfen and T"d€i, for the De46ndant; and Sergeant for the Plaifitiff.
ThePRESID NT new ft:atcd the matcrial circumfiances; and.
delivered the opinion of the Court as folows:
SHIPPEiJ, Prefidnt.--This is a motion to fet afide the report of
Referees, on two grounds: i4t, For the r'iflehhviour ot the two
Referees, who figLed the report," in deciding the difpute without
who did not ign it.' "The eviderice by
notice to the ihird'Referee, w
no means fupports this cbjeaion, as it, appears that the two Referees had agreed upon the fubflance of their report in'the prefence
of the third Rcferee; *who dedared his difagrermen.t, and faid the
others couid make the report'without him.
- The 2d ebjedion is to the'repbrt itfelf, as awarding Motley to
be paid by the Defendant cn one fide,'and the making conveyances
bf'land and a 161t of ground, and tak'ing up a bond and mortgage in
tbd Loan Office, by. the P1aintiff,-on the other fide; The ground
Z this cb e*5tion is,.that the Court tannot do 6ompleat jufhce on
both fidcs -s an ex ecution may iftiue for the money againflthe De.ndant, .ind the Plaifitiffcannot be compelled by the Court to perform his part ; ii Itaft, that the rcmedies are not the fame on both

tides,.namely h.y ¢xclion,

F DVRT Of CoilxMPl

PLEAS 9f -PhiadelphiaCouynt.

365

The deterrination of caufes by Referees under a rule of Court, 1788.
bas'been found a pra&iee -of fuch general coniveniepce and utility, t_,..
fici the fpiedy and equitable'decifion of controverfies depending in
the Courts of law, that the judges have always. encouraged and
fvpported it; more 4fpecially as in this mode 'of trial, the Referees are not tied down by tme ftri& rules of law, but may decide
as the equity of the cafe may appear, and in fome fort fupply our
want of a Court of Chancery.
As the Referees are Judges of the
parties own chufing, we never enter into'the merits'of the caufes
they decide, nor, in general, fet afide their reports but for mifbehaviour, or.where the obje&ions arife bn the face of the procpedings.
Where a 'eport -of Reterees awards mofey to be paid on or iide,
and certain other things to be done on the oiher', if the Courk cannot inforce both, they will certainly in'br ce.neithen In the prefent
cafe,. the queftion wil be, whetfier they can oblige the Plaintiff to
perform his part of the award? They certainly cannot do it b.'
execution ; but if they can do it by attachment, the remedies are mutual, though not by the fame kind of procefs. That an attachment
will lie for a contempt in not performing an award of Referees appears clearly to have been agreeable to the common law prior tothe ftatute-of 9 and 1o. IP 3. which is declared by the Judges, and
appears from a perufal of the a& itfelf, to have been made only to
put agreements to refer cafes never inflituted in Court, upon the
fame tooting with caufes already in Court, and to be declaratory of
what the law was before in the latter cafes.
I havb infpe&ed'the record in the cafe of Stuart v. Ralflon in the
Supreme'Courl, and' the judgment in tlat cafe -feemsdecitive on theprelent queltion. There the award was that money fhould be paid
by the Defendant -o the Plaintiff, and that the Plaintiff Ihould, at
A future time, When certain proceeds of pot aifh'hould come to-his
hands, aigd when a ceitain debt fhould be received, pay th amount
of one hilf'of them to the Defendant: The objelion with regard
to the tin-e of"the Plaintiff's performing -his part of. the award was
raueh ftron ger than in the prefent cafe; which requires that it ihall
be done within five days attei payment of the money.
. In all cafes of this kind the Court will exercife their equitable
powers, in fuch a manner, as not to fuffer either party to elude
the performance of their part of the award. If, for inftance, exe-*
curion fkould be taken out by the Plaintiff againft the Defendant,
and any well grounded'fufpicions flhould appear, that'the Plaintiff was
contriving by' flight, or otherwife, to avoid complying with bis part,
the Court would order the money levied to be lodged in Court till
the Plaintifffhould comply; or might impofe fuch other terms upon.
him as flhould'appea'r neceffary to oblige a compliance..
As to the objeelion that part oftheaward is impoflible to be con
plied with, the Defendant himfelf having taken up the Loan Offct
Security, which was diie&ed by the Referees to be done ly th
Plaintiff; it is evident from the tim of its being done, that it,viWU
With a view of making the prefent objeion, it being do *wo'
s

366.

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

after the Referees had agreed upon their report, though before the
a ual figning of it; This, however, is no legal obje&ion, becaufe if any part ot an award be impotiible to be performed, it appears by a cafe in Salk. 83. that the Court will refufe an attachment for that part. Yet, as the Plaintiff in the prefent cafe would
roceive the benefit of what the-Defendant has done in taking up the
fecurity, we fhould certainly think it equitable that he fhould
abate fo much out of the money'to be recovered, and upon application would oblige him tg do it; and, in general, fee that the report
was-carried into execution in'all its parts, agreeably to the intent
of the Referees, and the juflice of the -cafe.
We therefore confirm the report.

GORGERAT

et al. verfus M'CARTf.

N a rule to fhew caufe why the Defendant fhould not be difcharged on common bail, M'Cary itated in his depofition,
*that, bping confiderably embarraffed, he had, according to the laws
of France, declared himfelf a bankrupt by filing a ftatement of his
debts and credits, and delivering all his books and papers. into the
Confular Court of L'Orient, for the benefit of his creditors ; the
prkcipal tart of whom, in confequence of this furrender, had met
together, appointed Truftees, or Syndics, in the ufual form, and then
granted him a letter of licence fbr three years, together with a power
of attorney, to colle& his outfianding debts in Ameriia, in order to
remit the fame for their ufe ; flipulating, however, that he fhould
return to France within one year from the fime of his departure.
The 7Mlaintiff, among others, had proved and regiftered his debt in
the Confular Court; and, it was agreed by the Counfel for both
parties, that, on a furrender of this defcription, itthree fourths in
value of the creditors had confented to the Defendant's difcharge,
the agreement or compofition by them figned, being hoamologated,
that is to fay, recorded and confironed by the Court of Parliament,
(which is a matter of courfe unlefs fraud is fhewn) became by the
lex loi obligatory.upon the non ftibfcribing creditors.
Ingerfol, in rupport of the rule, &ontended, that it was fettled by
the decifions in Al'illrv. Hall(ant.229.) and Tompfon vs. Young (ant.
29 1.) that adifcharge under the laws of one country, operated as fuch
in every other; and he offered to prove by the teflimony of the Defendant himfelf, that three fourths in value (the depofition only flat.inguthat thefrinhipalpart) of the craditors had agreed to the com0

-

pofition at L'Orient; obferving, that, if this would be fufficient to

.induce -the Court to oi'der an Exoneretur after judgmenti it would
;alfo be fufficient to induce them to difcharge the Defendant in the
prefent ifage or the caufe.
Du Pon eau, having read a.pofitive affidavit of a fubfiffting debt,
*ppofed te admiltion of the Defendant's teitimony. He faid,
-

-

-

that

