308
r788.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

rent from the Affignee will take away all remedy againl the Leffce
hitnfelf. I have looked. for this diftindhon in the books, but cannot
find it in any cafe where there was an exprefs covenant for the pay.ment of the rent. The cafes found the law upon the perfonality of
the contrad; which extends equally to the payment of the rent, as
to the making repairs; and, though the authorities-are not fo numerous in the one cafe as the other, yet they are as expiefs. 2 Keb. 64o,
and 2BIarnard.372, are full to the point. Ifthefe- books are thought
to be of doubtiil authority, r Roll..Ab. 522. cites two cafes, where
the breach of covenant was for nonpayment oftherent. In i Sid 402.
where the Court draws the diftin&io-l between debt and covenant,
they exprefsly mention the adion to be for the rent ; and the cafe
in 3 Lev. 283. is likewife covenant for non payment of the rent.
As to the argument ab inconvenienti, I cannot fee how it operates
more in this coun try than in England. It Leffees mean not to be
perfoally bound atter aflignment, they fhould take care what covenants they enter into. If they will, in exprefs words, covenant
for the payment of the rent, they mull be bound by it.

Judgment for the PlaintifFi
WELLS et al.

Appellants, verfiss Fox.

I .3"
was an appeal from the determination of the Regulaterg
0,Prty Walls &c.- .owetd moved that a Venire flould ifFue
agreeably to the third fettion of the ad pafed the 15th ofApril 7 82,
3 Stale Laws 75"allowi:g the appeal to the .next(ourt of Common ileas,
and ena6ting, th,t thereupon " the faid qourt (upon fecurity being
,'entered &c.) fhall dircd&a Penireto the Sheriff &c."
S&egeanf thought that the queftion ought to be tried upona feigned.
.ue, or tLnder an e e.ment ; to either of which he -tould agree.

T

But, by SFMIPEN, Pry.dent..-A feigned ifrue can only determi"
yhether th6 kegulators have oone right or not; it cannot determine
the title, and .nially fettle the matter. For this re~fon we think it
proper to try the quellion b.y ejemen.
Lewis and PJ'ilks faid, the praffice in the Supreme Cojrt h~d
bcen conformably to the,opinion of the Prd/dent here.

COOPER
A

re fis

COATS.

EOND and Warrant to confefs Judgment riad been executed

by the Defendant for , 6 oo. Befbre the Judgment was entered ivp, he had paid fo much of the money as reduced the futit
r;:aiy due to lefs than .io: And the queftion flated for the opixion,ol the Caurt, was, whether the Flaintiff (hould bt allowed colts ?

Jfa~owl

