CoURT of C 'MZON PLrAS of Philadephia C&unty.

393

caution in admitting the allegations of a man in his own favour.
Dgug. 75r. 753. Receiving them, however, in their fulleft extent on this occafion, they only proved that the owner had affifted
in procuring thp mate to embark, and this could never defeat the
triple right with which the law had armed him.
SairPPN, Prefident, in delivering the charge ot the Court, adverted to the. nature of the evidence on which the cafe was eftab]ifhed, and inftru&ed the Jury to, take the whole together, unlefs
they fhould think, that there were circumatances in the Defendant's
confefliou, which rendered the part in his own favor inconfiflent or
improbable.
But, even admitting the fa&, that the Plaintiff had been hipped
by the owner, his Honor fiated, that the captain was liable; for,
the law gave the Plaintiffa threefold remedy to recover his wages ;
and, unlefs by fome pofitive aft, or word, he had releafed (as he
might do) one ofthofe remedies, a m-re compliance with the folicitation 6f the owner to embark, cannot defeat them. He flaid
there was no diftin&ion, in this refpe&, between the mate and a
common mariner; they were alike fubjea to the orders of the captain, who could equally refufe to receive either, -or, when received,
was equally empowered to difinifs them; for, his appointment as
captain gave him the fole, undoubted, and exclufive right ol choofing every feaman under him, whatever curtefy he might be indined to thew to the recommendation of.thofe by whomi he was
hinfelf employed.
With regard to the cafe of repairs, the PRESIDENT obfervt d, that
it was not Ilri&ly analogois to that of feamen's wages, but ft6od on
this fjotin:-Jf a veffel is in port, where the owners refide, and
they, without the interpofition of the captain, employ carpenters, &c.
to repair her, the captain is not liable ; not merely becaufe he
does not employ them, but, .becaufe he is not anfwerable for their
condu& when employed. But if a veffel is repaired in a foreign
port, then, indeed, a fimilitude arifes between the cafes, and the
captain is as liable for thofe repairs, as for the wages of his failors,
becaufe the workmen, as well as the failors, are, -in the latter -infiance, empl6yed by him, and equally fubje6t to his controul and
difmifflion.
The opinion of the Court was, conclufively, that, if the mate
had ferved on board the veffel, tie captain's having admitted him
to do fo, rendered him liable for the payment of the wages.
And the Jury, accordingly, found a verdi& for the Plaintiff.
CAMP

verfus

LOCKWOOD,

"'HE Plaintiffand Defendant had both been inhabitants of Conicut previous to the revolution, when the debt, for which
:Ius a&ion is brought, was alledged to be contra~ted, and continued

T

Ddd

f.

,39
.-...

.'C.ss riled and adjudged in the

.o for tome time after the commertcement of the war. Subfequent,
"J however, to the declaration. of independence, the Plaintiff joined
the Brltb army, and, on the return of peace, he removed -with
othqr Loyalifts to Halifax, where he continues 16 refide. On the
fecond Thurfday ot Alay in the year 1778, the Legiflature of Conncicut-ena6ed a law declaring that all the eflate, real aid perfonal,
of any perfon o- perfons.who had joined the enemies of the United
States,. or had affifted them,' or fhould thereafter do fo, fhould be
"confifcated;.and that, with refpe& to thofe perfons who had been
inhabitants of ihe State (the laff felion ofthe a& providing for the
cafe of perfons who had never been inhabitants) the County Court
upon application was empowered and dire6ded to give judgment,
that all their eflate Ihould be forfeited to the Commonwealth, and
thereupon to appoint adminiffrators (as in the cafe of inteffates) who
were to fll fuch confifcated eflate, inflitute fuits, recover and pay
debts, and to deliver the furplus, if any, into the Treafury of the
State &c.- In Septembt 1779, the Plaintiff was proceeded againri
under this law, as one who had been lately a refident of the town of
Ne-whaven ;. and, it being duly adjudged that he was guilty of joining the enemies of the United States, his eflate was declared to be
forfeited for. the ufe ot theState. of Conneaicut, and ceirtain parts of
it were feized and fold ; but no [ep s'were taken to recover from
the Defendant the debt flaid to be due from him to the Plaintiff,
although the Defendant at the time'of the cohfflfcation, and for fome"tmcafterwards, remained an inhabitant of Gonnee~irut, and has alwyas had property there, liable to legal procefs.
Under thefe circumflances, Camp inflituted this'fuit; in bar of
which Loclwood pleaded, that the confifcation, by virtue of the'a&
of Conneeicu, had divcffed the Plaintiff's property in the debt, if
any was due, and vefted the fame in that State: And to the efficacy
of this plea the prefent argument was confined, up-on a demprrer
afnd joinder in demurrer.
The point was firff opened on the 16th of Augul?, 1788, ansi
finally argued by Ingrfol, for the Defendant, and "Rawle, fqr the
Plaintiff, on the .2 ft of Novenier following.
lngerol. The forfeiture of an enemy's effate, moveable or iramdveable, and of his rights, corporeal or incorporeal, is a matter of
tifS& fovereignty, although, by the curtefy of nations, debts are
.allowed to revive at the conclufion of a war. Lee on Capt. i i L. The
Plaintiff, however, *comesnot within the rule relpedling an enemy,.
but having baen proceeded againft as a delinquent fubje&, he mufi
be confidered as an attainted traitor; and, by fuch attainder, all
hyi. eflate, real and perfonal, were abfolutely and irrecoverably forfeited. 3 BaL. Ahr. 7.5. And a forfeiture of real and perfonal eftate
extends to things in aaion as well gs in pofibfion. a Bac. br. 577.
in which general point of view the law of Pennf'tlvania has alfo exprefsly regarded the fubje&. 2 State Laics99. 'The aa of Connecticut is as clear and comprehenfive as words can make it, confider.ing the party as a6tually dead, and appointing adminifrators of his
eflate.

COURr' of'CoMMO

PLEAS of PhladelRM

hia Coun'y

395

eftate. Ndr-can the pravifions contained in the treaty of peace af- .1788.
fee the queflion ; .for, ihe treaty does not operate like the reverfal
of an outlawry, but like a pardon. 2. in. tit.
Outlawry.
_Rawle contended, that, whether the queftion was confidered,
xft, upon the pleadings hcre; or, 2dly, upon a fup.pofition that the
fisat had been inflitated i Conne 7cut, the Plainhtil was not barred
of his recovery..
I. Arguing the cafe on the pleadings here, he premifed, that it
was a general.prinLiple, that nation.,, with refpe6t to each other,
muff be confidered as individuals in a flate of nature. Puf,jib.
2-C. 3.-f7 -. 23- x f a t. 4. 5. .Burlain. 195. Moral entities, or
perfons, are given to them, .in order to render them fubje&s of

aiot; but, as to what relates to a nation itfelt, or the property
which it has acquired, there is no power that can dire& or reflrain.
its condud. ' In a ftate of fociety private property yields to the
gejeral good; but this-is not the cafe in a ftate o nature; and,
therefore, it may be taken as an axiom, that where the aa of a
particular nation vefts in itfelf the property of an individual, whether
a fubje& or not, the right, thus acquired, extends no further than
:hejurifdi6lion of that unation, and the a& on which it is foundod
can have no extra-territorial force. i Pat. 145. This principle
has, indeed, been recognized by the pradice of the United States.
For, there is no inflance of the agents for forfeited cfates palling
from one State into another; but, on the contrary, asls of attainder have always been paffd againfi the farne perfon in the feveral
States where his property was found; which would not, furely,
have been neceffary, if, either on general law, or under the articles'
of Confederation, the a& of dne State, appropriating private property to itsown ufe, had any effe& beyond the limits of its own
jurifdiLtion. If thenthe State which has pallcd the law of confifcation, has forborne to reduce the Defendants debt into poffelIion,
and ihe State where the dbtor refides has no power to do fo, it
neceffarily follows, that the debt, remaining on its original footing,
is liable to the Plaintiff's demand. When, indeed, the a& of Cnnelicut was paired, the Defendant refided in that State; but when
this fuit was inflituted he had removed hither; and the law is clear,
that the debt fbllows the perfoAi in every inifance, except that of a
diftribution in the cafe of inteftacy. Carth. 3732. Confidering the point, in the iecond place, upan a fuppofition that the affion had been brought in Oonneaicut, the queftion
arifes, whether a right not reduced into poffeflion within due time,
can afterwards be recovered? If the adminiftrators had recovered
from the Defendant, it would certainly have been fulcient to bar
the Plaintiff's claim; but, when the State allowed the debtor to
remove-from itsjurifdi&ion, an implied power was given to the
creditor to purfue him elfewhere. Should a hufband negle& during
his life time to recover chqfes in action belonging to his wife, ihe is
entitled to-them afterwards, and not his executors or adminiftrators;
for, the law will never favor negligence. The rtafohing rn this
Ddd
cafe

396
Z798.
v

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

cafe will apply as well with refpt& to nations as individuals. Ler
on (apt:, 19. Befides, a right veiled for a.-particular purpofe,
ceafes with that purpofe: The war being at an end, the obje'&4
of ,onfifcating the Plaintiff's debts, &c. is alfo extinguilhed ; and
it the Aaminifirators could not recover. the debt in Connteicut;
nor, a fortiori, in Pennfylvamna, by the rules of natoral juflice,
Camp may recover it; for, there can be no plautfible reafon why
Lotkwood thould be exonerated. Under the Treaty of Peace, indeed, and the law of Cannettcut (pafTed the 2d Thurfday of May,
1787) repealing all. a&s repugnant to the Treaty, the Adminiftrators could not now interfere to prevent the Pliintiff's recovery;
f or, the a&t by virtue of whicl they were appointed; is certainly
of that defcription ;-fo that by the ,th article Loclword is eftopped
from faying that he will pay the debt to the Adminiftrators ; and,
by the 6th article, they are piecluded from -compelling him to do"
fo. This expofition has alfo prevailed in England; for, the
Agents on the claims of the Loyaliffs makb no alxowance for outflanding debts; becaufe, as it has been already obferyed, they
may be recovered under the Treaty.
Rawle then proceeded to confider, particularly, the obje6lions
Offered by the Defendant's Counfel, in fupport of his plea ;
which were, he flatdd, ift. That the Plaintiff was riot an-enemy
but a'rebellious fubje& ; 2dly. That by the a& of Connetlicut, anud
the proceedings under it, he was attainted, and confidered as acWally flead; and 3dly. That he was not entitled to. any bnefit
under the Treaty of Peace.
.i.To tnefrfl dbjelion, he anfwered, that" tbe proceedings
'were exprefsly againf Camp "asan enemy; that it was by reafcn of
11s adherence to the enemies of the United States, and of a6cion3
not merely criminal as they relate to his duty-to the State, but to a
Foreign nation at war with the State, that the foifeiture had been
iffe&ed ; and that the law of Connedicut neither knew, nor indi cated," a diflinc'ion between the inimical chara6ter of a fubje&
and a Foreigner. But, he urged, that, as againift a delinquent ci-tizen, merely In relation to the State of which he was a member, not an enemy in the flri& f'enfe of the word, the ac of tho
State. non valet extra terrilo4,m; that, therefore, it could never be
any bar 'to- Camp's recovery in Pennfi'lvania; and -that, even in
Connraicui, he would now be entitd by tile Treaty of Peace,
arid the riw paffed there in fupport of it, -torpcover all the property not a&bally vefled and'in pofl~flieon of the State. If, on the
other hand he was proceeded againft as an oftending fubje&, in
relatio-. to" his adherence to a foreign power, the general principles entitle him to reco(ver after the war has cafed. But, in
either point of view, the allowance of the prefent plea would
contravene the eflablifhed principles in the cafes enumerated by
Fattel r k'.p..4.fi. 13. 14. P. I2I.fe,,. 2. 3.p. I29.f"7. 25.
Befides, his oftences as a Subje&, though committed againift
.nation confederated and allied with our's, do not allow us to
-

join

COURT of COMMON PLFAS ef PhilRadelphia Coun8y.

'397

join in the inflilion of punifnment. i. 1at. 98.Jegi. 232. We 1788.
cannot, therefore, make ourfelves parties to the public feverities
of Gonnegiicut, nor interfere in the relation and confli&, betweenthat State and its Subje&s: And, as no public proceedings have
taken place againft the Plaintiff here, there is not any authority
for denominating him an offender againfl Pennfylvania. The
only inftance in which thefe general principles 'have fiuftained an
alteration by the articles of Contederation, is confined to the
perfons of offenders ; and expreffib umus et exclufto alterins.

But the aalmiflion of this plea would be attended with confe,querices fo inconvenient, that the mere argument ab inconvenenti
ought to prevent it. In whatever flape it is claimed, it would
interfere with the axiom, that one nation cannot intermedle with
'the government of another. Matt. p. 138. fet7. 54. If the Plaintiff was attainted, or in debt, here, his property could not be
forfeited or attached, fince, by the adverfe argument, it belongs
to Conneeticut: Nay, if he came hither with a view to fettle, he
could not tc. trade, or become a ufeful Citizen. on the funds hfound here. Thus a roliio le gum would arife; the univerfal rule
of which, is, that the laws and the intereft of the State having
jurifdi6ion of the caufe, fhall be preterred. 2 Hub. 26. 3 axiom.
2. To thefecondobjection he anfwered, that it was not fbunded
in the truth of the'cafe. NAameu ought not to miflead us; for although his property in Conneaicut had been confifcated, and an
adminifirator appointed to colle& 'it ; yet nothing appears to
prove that the Plaintiff is not ftill alive to every legal purpofe
there, as well as here ; independent too of the Treaty of Peace.
3- But, in aniver to the third obje6ion, he" infifled, that the
Treaty of Peace removes not only the perfonAl difability, if any
fuch there was, but alfo the particular Bar. Whether, indeed, it
operates- as a general reverfal, or a general pardon, may be queftionable; although the former is the more probable conje&ure,
fince the provifion made in favor of recnvering property fold as
confifcated, would have been neediefs if it was only confidered
in the light of a pardon. But, admitting it to be only a pardon,
.and'thar it has no effe& agaihit Lonafide purchafers, he contended,
that it was conclufively in favour of the Pjaintiff on the point of
i:eftitution, as againft the State; and, afortiori,*in a cafe where
his credits h.dd not been reduced into poffeffion. The fur conftudftion of the Treaty neceffarily warrants this dolrine.
A
Ingeril,
in reply.-There are a variety of inflances in which
this queftion will be agitated, if the Plaintiff thuuld now'prevail;
and thd purfes of individuals, as well as the coffers of the State,
will be deeply affec-ed by the decifion. It muft bib remarked that
neither the Defendant, nor Connedicut, afk the interpotition of
this Court, but the perfon who was the objec of the law of that
State , that the Defendant does not intercept the money in its
courfe to the publid Treafury ; but prevents its being remitted to
Nova-Scotia; and that the conteft, in fai, lies between an individual and a filter State.
He

39a
17 8.
.-. eJ

CAsS

ruled .and afudge Tn tra

Me obferved,- that he did not controvert the general do6trine advanced by the oppofite council, that the law of nations, is the law
of nature applied to nations; and that one fovereign p ower cannot
be bound by another; but lie diftinguifhed between the neceffary,
and the voluntary law of nations, which arifes ex comitait. Vatt.
pr .12. Ibid.p. 6. and infiftd that the laws of. a nation atually
enforced,' are every where obligatory, unlefs they interfere with
the independency of'another Legiflature. 2 Hub 26. for, common
conveniencv renders it neccifary to give a certain degree of force to
the -latutes of foreign natibns. 2 Ld. Kaim, Prin. Eq. 350. 3bo.
.If nations, unconneded by any tie, thus i:ndire&ly give cfli& to
the laws of each other, the principle upon which it is done, mift
with- greater ftrength prevail. in the cafe of a political union like
that of the American States. . It is titue, that thefe States are faid.
to be fovereign and independent ;'but ther are evidently bound by
a link which muff be taken into view, or we (hall argue wrong in
the abftra&. Thus, it is declared by the articles of Con.ederation,
that a citizen of one State,, is a citizen of every Stite ; an4 the
Congrefs are not, as Mr. Adatns * has teimed them, an Alfemblaga
os Ambaffador; ,but a fovereign power, and capable of fuihg like
4 corporation, withoutany exprefs'fIatute to enable them. Seran't. 41.
But, the operation and effed of a fentence) or judgment, of a
foreign Court, cannot'furely be more binding than the ad of a
foreign Legiflaturc ; and thefe, ex comitateatjure gentium, are in
narty cafes final, i Blak. Rep. 258. 262. Vaft. li. 2. -c. 7 .fedl 84.
P. 147, If a debtor be difcharged where the debt was contra&ed
he is equaly fo in every other place ; fo that if Lockwood had been
difchaiged by the State of Couneflcut, this fuit would not be maintainable againft him even in the King's Bench of England. Co. B. L.
-347, The Court of Chancery held itfelf bound by the decifion of'
a competent foreign jurifdi&iori, declaring an acceptance to be
void; ij Stra. 733. 'and, becaufe a debt had been difcharged according to'the lex loci, though in the depreciated paper money of
jNorlh-Garolina, hord Thirlow, fince the revolution, has refufed a
ne exeat regno. Broson. 376. A timilar principle has governed the Sapreme Court, in the cafe of Millar v. Hall (ant. 229.) and 'this Court,
in the cafes of Thompfon vs,' oung (ant. 294-) and Le Clerevs. Richette.
A diffindtion is likewife to be obferved between a foreign fentence authorizing, and a foreign fentence difmf'/,ing, a claim; for,
if the proper tribunal difmilfes a claim, the fentence is definitive.
2 Ld. Kaim. Prin. Eq. 375. and in that defcription theproceedings,
The cafe in
as far as they affe& Lockwood, muff be included.
Cartb. 373. is certainly right as a general rule; but it is liable to
feveral exceptions ; for, xil, The law of one country may. indiredly have effe& in another, by the voluntary law of nations ;
adly, It a right of adion has been legally transferred in one jurifdi&ion,.the rule by which it is to operate, is the fame in everyother jurifdition S and 3dly, Where a debtor has been difiniffed

by
'.AceMr. Aa'ams': " Dtfence of the Amcrican Coj.fitutio a,

COURT of COMMON PLtAs of Philadelphia C0unty.

399

by the proper tribunal, it is a'prdte&ion every where elfe: And
thefe exceptions take place in confidering the queffion as between
nations totally independent and unconne&ed. It is true, that the
.rerican States have hithertobeen held by a veryllight confederacy;
but what remedy is tobe purfied? Shall we, if the knot is loofe,
make it ftil1 looler ? If the union is weak, hall we encreafe the
debility ? Or, when a more perfe& confolidation is effential to the
national exiftence, (hal, we employ repulfion inf'ead of attra&ion,
and thus widen the inconvenient and ruinous diffance between the
different members of our political body?. Neither reafon or experience would jufify fuch a conftru&ion; and the United Stater,
though individually fovereign and independent, muff admit, not
only the voluntary law of nations, but a peculiar law refulting from
their relative fituation.
No cafes can be more diftinguifhable than the prefent, and that
in which the rule for reviving rights and credits at the expiration of
a war occurs. There is no doubt, that, on the declaration of peace.
a Britih fubjc& could fue here ; and, we find, that although our
governmant conceived that they might a& as they thought proper
with refpe& to the citizens of the' State, yet the inflalment laws
werenever extended to obftru& and protraft the recovery of debts
due to foreigners. If, iherefore, Camp is io be confidered.in the
honorable light of an open enemy, the argument for the Defendant is unfounded : but, when it is recolleled, that he did not avow
his fentiments on the declaration of Independence; and that, neverthelefs, he remained in the enjoyment of his property under the
lzws of Conneeicut for fome time afterwards, it is impoilible to re-gard him in any other light than that of a fubje&, and fiibje&S are
the obje&s of the municipal law, 'not of the law of nations. In
the cafe of ARs publica v. Chapman on an indi&ment for treafon
(See ant. 53.) The Defendant was acquitted, becaufe, in the
opinion of the Court, he was not a fubjea : If he had been
a'fubje&, he mulf have been attainted; and 'being fo attainted, he could never have.claimed any advantage from the
law of nations on the return of Peace. Thus, with refpe6t to
"Cahip, he was a Traitor; the proceedings under the AA1 of Connedlicut produced a forfeiture and attainder; and the right of a&ioa
was as exclufively vefted in the State (and ly the power of that
State alone can it be divefted) as if he had been taken and executed. The Aa, indeed, does not fpeak at all of an enemy, but of
fich perfons as were refident in Conveiaicut, and had joined the
Briti.h troops; for proceedings of this kind are never carried on
gainft an open enemy.
The profits of his property may be fequeftered during the war, in order to preve.nt their being remitted,
but no Jorfeiture can take place,
If then Carnp was a fubje& of Conneflicut, he derives no right
from the Treaty of Peace; for,, Great-Britaincould not' mean to
interfere between that State and her own citizens. The defcription in the f-', " -cle cannot be 'extended to hill ; and though'
the

1788-

400
1788.
i_ .

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

the fixth Article certainly defignates perfons acting as he has corfe,
yet it gives no farther advanltage than to protet his perfon from
moleftation, and to preclude any future confifcations of his property. The confifcation of the prefent debt, &c. was in the year'
1779, and.no further proceedings are requifite to retain the right
which the State thereby acquiied. The Marquis of Carmarth~en's
complaint of laws pafled againil the Treaty did not include laws
of this defcription; for although he muff have known that fimiJar ones exifted in Pennfylvania, he admits, that. here there are no
a6s paffed againil the Treaty. Purchafers under the State are confidered by the Treaty as holding a good title; but it provides for
perfons intering into a negociation for the reconveyance .of their
forfeited -elfates from fuch purchafers.
In the cafe of Refpublica v. Gordon, (ant. 233.) the confifcition
was compleat before the treaty; and, therefore, thought it would
have been incompatible with it to have fuftained any legal proceedings afterwards in the Supreme Court.againri the Defendant, an
ot the Legiflature became neceffary to divefi the right, which the
State had acquired by the previous confifcation.
The condO6 of the Brii/b agents can furnifh no authority to us ;
but the reafon for their refuting to make an allowance for debts was
the difficulty of afcertaining them, aid not the prefumption of their
being recoverable after the peace. Nor does the aS of Conneticut,
repealing all laws againft the treaty, affet the law in queftion,
which is direted to an object of mere municipal regulation. The
State had a right to do as they pleafed with all the confifcated properry ; and on any, or no confideration, to releafe all his debtors.
Whether, indeed, they had recovered fie whole, or-a part, or
whether thty have compounded, or difmiffed the debt, it could not
enure to the benefit of Camp. He cannot now be punifhed for pail
depredations ; but the property veled in the State of Conneilicut,
cannot be re-veiled without her authority.
If the treaty is to be cnnfidered as a reverfal of outlawry, then a
reftitution would enfuie; but if it is taken in the light of a pardon,
that does not divefl any thing. previoufly veiled in a fubje6t, nor
-even in the King who grants it, unlefs by ex.prefs words. 3 Bac.
.br. 8ro. -2 Vin. 401. p1 4- p. 404. The right of ation in the
prefent cafe was clearly transferred to" Conneiicut,, and neither exprelsly, or by implication, has Ihe waved it.

After confidering the cafe and argufnents, the PRES
livered the opinion of the Court in thefe words:

ENT

de-

SHIPPEN, Prftdent.-The queflion in this care is of importance,
both on account of the principles to be eflablifhed by the decifion,
nd" the many cafes which may poflibly be affe6ted by it. It has
been learnedly and ingeniomfly argued on both fides; but, though
large ground has been taken, I think the whole snay be reduced to
a very moderate compais.
This

COURT of CMIMON PLEAS

of Philadelphia County.

4o

This is not a fuit brought by the State of Conneeicut, or any
perfon, claiming property under their local laws, wherein a queffieri
tan arife, whether effe&s forfeited by the laws ofthat State can be
-recovered here, by the adminiftrators of the perfon whofe eflate is.
confifcated. It is fimply, whether the debt has been forfeited there,
and a&ually veiled in that State; and whether any thing has occurred which. divefts it; and whether, under the peculiar circumftance
of our relative fituation with regard to each other, the Courts of
this State can.takenotice of fuch confifcation and velting, fo as to
preclude the Plaintiff from recovering here, a debt due to him there,
before that confifcation.
In order to pave the way for a decifion of there queftions, and
to dillingutfi between the fituation of this country, and thZfe treated of by the learned writers on the laws of nature and nations, ani
the rights of diftin6t independent faverignties quoted bythe cpunfA,
it will be neceffary to point out that peculiar, relative fituation which
thefe States ftand in with regard to each othe.
When a.refifance was made to the execution of the laws of Great
Britain, and an atual war took place between us and them, we
wvere not thirteen independent States, but Colonies and Provinces,
belonging to, -and a part of, a great Empire, cormprehending bath
coantries. The relifcince was made in confequence of comimn
grievances fulfered by all the Provinces, from the head of that empire ; and it was a ffruggle to untie the knot that bound us'togeth.-r.
and to emancipate us from the dominion of our then mother country. In the profecution of this plan, all were equilly principals,
and carried on the war as a common caufe, and by common confent, without being tied together by any regularly organized fyfem
of Government. The firit body that exercifed any thing like a
fovereign authority, was the Congrefs of the then United Golonies.
who fupermtenJed the whole, and, by the like com.non confent,
were invefted with fuch general powers as were neceffary for the
profecution of the war. We afterwards divided ourfelves into
feveral difltin&t governments, by the name ot States; ifill leaving
the general power in Congrefs, which, being itl
a great meafure undefined, wasexercifed, with'regard to internal nalterz, by recommendations to the feveral Governments, initead of laws; which.
however had generally the force of laws.
The articles of Confederation were not acceded to by all the
States for fome years. By there articles, each State was to retain
its fovereignty, freedom, and independence, and every right not
exprefsly delegated to Congrefs; but the free inhabitants of each
State were to be intitled to all the privileges arid immunities of free
citizens in the feveral States. Before the articles of Confederation
were agreed to, Congrefis hbad recommended to the feveral S ates to
confifcate, as foon as might be, and to make fale of all the real and
perfonal eflates therein: of their inhabitants, and othe-r perions,
who'bad forfeited the fame, and the right to the prote6lion of their
refpefive States.
FLee
Tn

T789.

402
. 7 88.
"

-€--

.

CAsES ruled and adjudged in the

In confequence. of this recommendation, the State of Corntlcut,
in the month of May, x.778, paled an a& to confifcate the eflates
of perfons inimical to the independence and liberties of the United
States, within tbat State. * By this law, all efiates, real and perfonal,
within the State, which blonged to.any perfon, or perfons, who
had gone over and joined with the enemies of the UnitedStates, or
had aided or aflifted them, or fhould thereafter do fo. were declared
to be confifcated. The mode of proceeding againfl thofe who had
been inhabitants, was dire&ed to be by application to the County
Court, who are empowered to give judgment and fentence, that
,all the eftate of fucbi perfons lholuld be foifeited for -the ufe of 'the
State. The Court is then direed to grant adminifiration of the
eZlates; as in cafe of inteftates eftates-.-The adminiftrators were to
fell fuch eftates, itflitute fuits, recovcrand pay debts, and deliver
over the furplus,, if any, into the Treafury of the State. The laft
claufe in the af direds the mode of proceeding as to the eftates of
perfons who never had an abode within the State.
In purfuance of this ad, .Abiat/arCrmp, (who is ftated to have
been lately a refident of the town of Newba-vin,) in the month of
Septem.er 779, was charged on the information of the feled men,
before the County Court, with having joined the enemies of the
United States, and put himfelf under the protealion of the King of
Great Bri:ain: He was. thereupon adjudged guilty, and fentence
paffed, that all his eflate real and j'erfonal ihould be forfeited to the
ufe of the State. Certain parts of Canp's eflate were in conftquence
of this forteiture feized and fold ; but no proceeding was had to recover againft 7ames Lockwood, the prefent Defendant, the debt faid
to be due from him to the Plaintiff, although the Defendant was at
that time, and for f6me time afterwards, an it/habitant of Conneticut, and. amenable fir the farrj.
And here the qtieffion arifes, whether the Plaintiff himfelf can
now recover it ?
It is conteoded, on the part of the Plaintif, that the proceeding
againfi him was as an enemy, and not as a traitor, and that, therefore, the war being over, his right revives. The fentence againft
him was certainly not exprefsly for treafoni, and there is no judgmept againil him that, in terms, fubje.s his perfon to puni Ibment
as a traitor. The ael of Ahmbly direds the proceeding to be had
only againft the eflates- of fuch pzrfons as had j6ined the enemy,
'but it diflinguithes between fuch as had been inhabitants of that
State, and thofe who never hadan abode within it, but had eftates
there. The prefent Plaintiffwas convided as an offender of the
former defcriptior, being late a refident in the town of Newhaven,
and is plainly pointed out as a fubje6. Indeed, the fat -is conceeded, that he really was a citizen of the" State, who joined the
enemy long after the declaration of independence and the organization of our State Governments. He cannot, therefore, be coni
fidered in the light of fuch a public enemy whofe rights are faid by
the writers on the'law of nations, to revive after the termination of
the

CouRT of Com ox PAs -of Philapha,County. 403
the war: The municipal-|aw of the country operated upon him as
a fubje&, and he could not he an objea of the law of nations. '
The obje&ion to the Courts of this State, as a fovereignindependant State, interpofmg to prcvent the recovery of a debt, on account
of the confifcation of ii in another independent State, is in a great
meafure .obviated by the flatement wviLh I have before made of the
peculiar relation that thefe qtates fland in to one another. Though
free and independent States, they appear not to be fuch diftin& fovereignties as have no relation to each other but -by general treaties
and alliabces, but ate bound together by common interefts, and are
jointly reprefented and dire&ed as to national purpofes, by one body as the head of the whole. The offence, which incurred the
alone,
OonneaIut
State
forfeiture, was not an otlen e againifthe_And
which dire&ed
theofa&,
but againif all the States ip.the union:

the torfeiture, was made in confequence of the recommendation of
and
the Reprefentatives
of general
Congrefs,
condu&ors
themtheas States,
powers vetedofin all
within the
a carecompofed
was
Our Courtsof a war, in which we were all equally principals.
neceffa: ily take notice of me conffcations madle itt
muff, -therefore, the
fe grounds.

a fiter State on

vetted
this itdebt
whether
It remains, then, oaly.to cottfider,
irt
tevefled
is was
whether
if it was,
in the State of Cornalcut, _and,
the Plaintiffby the treaty of peace ?
All his ettate, both real and perf'onal, in that State was confifcated.
All things come within the defcription of conffcabe perfnal eflat,
which a manhas in his own right, whether they be ina&ion or
refiding aswithin
a perfon then
from
duewas,
poll'etion : This debt wasand
other
confifcated
confequently,

the State of Connerticut,
debts due ,here, and the right of ;&ion, as well as the debt, -oas
vetted in the States

The 4th article of the treaty of peace, whch dire&s that creditors,
on either fide, flial1 meet with no lawful impediment to the recois mutt certainly"
very of all bona idt debts theretofore 'ontra&ed,
and the citizern
hide,
one
the
on
fubje&s,
rtorn
real
to
confined
oftaerica, on the other; and it has beeth always fo conxir'ted.
and properties,
As to the rettitution of ettatos, rights,
as to
done, evenalreadty.
treaty to.be
tonfifcated, it is not required by theindeed,
the
by
5 th article, tha
real rtf fubjeas. it is agreed,
to provide
Congrsf fhall recommertd it to the feveral Legiflatures
thofe of another de iption
to ws
wor ficha rettitution; 'and,
they have liberty given them by the treaty, to refide twrl month
in the United nate to folicit a reitution and compofiton -with the
to the.
h
is t recommend
purchafers of their eftates, and Congre
them.
fz
paid
money
e
th
refunding
on
rofioxed
be
States,d t they

Eee

2

Bu

-1788.

404.
1788.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged &c.

But no aqs for thofe purpofes have been palfed by the Legiflatures
in confequence of any fuch recommendations. Indeed, the ample
provfo n made for thefe people in England, feems to have been
confidered by the Government there as an aS of jufltice, for not
having been atle to obtain a reftitution for them by the treaty.
For thefe reafons, we are oi opinion, that AMathar Camp is not
fuch a perfon -as has a right to fue for and recover this debt, al-'
ready velted by confifcation in the State of Connectcut

1UPREMV

