SUPREME COURT Of

Penly'vania:

September Term, 1789.,

M'CULLOUGH, Affignee verfus HoUSTON.

T

HIS was an a ion brought by Hilgh MCullough, as affignee

of Samui Young, upon a promiffory not6 drawn by 7ohn I.
!-Iuflon; and, on the trial of the caufe, a verdi& was given -for
the Plaifitiff, fubje& to the opinion of the Court on the following

point:
"Whether the indorfee of a promiffory note, takes it fubje& to all equitable confiderations, to which it was fubje&, in

the hands of the indorfer, the original payee?" And, if the opinion of the Court was in favor of the Defendant, a new trial was
to be qwarded.
The point was argued at the laft term, before all the Judges, by
Sergeivnt, for the Plaintiff, ahd Inger]o, for the Defendant.
For the Plaintiff, it -wasobferved, that in the a& of AtTembly,
making bonds and notes negotiable, there is no provifion enabling
the promilree, or* drawee, to bring an adtion on the note itfelf;
i State Laws 77. that fuch an affion did not lie at common law;
and, confequently, that wherever it had been brought in Pennfylvania (which is in numerous inflances) the proceeding muff hav6
been founded on the Patute of 3 and4 Ann. c. 9. and the law of
merchants. That flatute, therefore, muff be confidered as extended
in prafficc 'to this country before the revolution ; and a legillative
fantion is given to the pra&ice by the ad of AffembLy,. which declares, that fhch parts of the flatute law of England as were here,tofbre in force, lball ftill be bindiag in Pennfylvania. : State Laws. 3.
On the affignment itfclf the affignee canaot bring an acdion apinft
tle
K kk

442

CA

s.s iCiled ard ,zdjuiged in th"

789."~*tie afligtor; but hemay.brifig covonant, of-, perhaps, ani atli
tor money -had-and received- &c. 2 Lbrd Rayn. 1242. 1419. ' Buts
in refped to: notes, a-blaikindo rfrment paffe., as if payable td
beaer; andcvery part of the flatutes of Williadr atvd of dhnt, .. for'
giving negotiability to bills of- exchange Pnd*notes of'hand; has
beci ntroduced into tHis prdvince from th&ealieft j!.mes .
f.or the Defidan, it waA urgedi that, at common law, bohds ;nd
:otes were miere chofis in alik 'and- the allign'ee took them in.des.
all the equitable circumfiitces to whith they -weie liable ji thlie
hands of the aflignor. Thit promiffory notes-4o .ot 'come within
the law of- erchants' is clear;' for, it' they did, the, ftfit. f
A4nne would haye been unnecefarv,; 'The ueilio tliereforc, is'.
whether that ltute las beeti txtenoed to Pemnfylvania or, :wheflier, by our af of Affembly, notes are put on the fam" fotifig witlt
'bills ot exchange?.
From the'eneral Xule of the extenfion of flatutes, the 3 & 4.1nn.
'has not been extended ; becaufe it .*as paffed fubfequent to th6
fettlement of Penfylvania ; becaufe the province"is not prticularly
named in it,' nor would it, irndeed, have been the policy of the BriiRb Legflaitire to promote the circulation of our paper credit ;" and
becaufe it has not been recognized and adopted by any pofitive ad
of Affembly. With'refpeet to the intr6dudion of the flatitby
pradice, itoperafes no iurther than-this,'that'tfi'e payee of a promiffory note has brougfit an adion on the note againf -the figner
"before our a& of Affembly was paffed S, but till then, the indorfee
eould not mintain.fuf: -arhaion ; and obligatiosns and promiffos
s'y notes, are put oi';he famne footing.
With refpe& totle aa itfelf, that theLegiflature could notintend to put p.romifroiy notes upon the fame footing with Bills of
Exchange, appears evidently from this confideration; that the preceding part ot the i& purfues the ftatule of .nne, nearly verbatim;
but whef it domes -to that claufe in the latteri which places botes
on the farhe footing with Bills of Exchange, the Ad. equally .varies
*ts
fpirit and-expreflion : And, tis declared, that the affignee of a
note, &e;" thall'recoverfo much thereofas flil appear to be due at the
lime V the afgnment, in lke manner as the aJignorcoul have done.
THE CHiRa jus' cE now delivered the opinion of the Court
In the following manner',
M'KEAN,'cbief.ufice-In pronouncing the opinion of the
Court, on the point referved for their confideration, I fhall premife
that Bonds, and Promiffory Notes in writing, flood on the fame
footing at common lwi and that the aflignment of thole inflrutnents, as well as the form, operation, and effet of fuch aflignment, depends entirely upon thie-municipal law of the place where
it is made.
By an ad of Affembly 6f Penfylvan;a, paffed on the 28th day of
May, 17 15, entitled" As ad for "heafrlgning of Bonds, Specialties-,
'
hath
and Proiriffory Notes," it
. is- mecited in the .2reaable,
.
.
. thatit
. en

&UP-'EME COURT

of Pennfylvana.4

. "3-

)en hld, that Bonds qnd Specialties unier hand and real, and 1'Iotes T78 0.
in writing, figned by.vie party.who. makes the fame, whereby fuch
party is obliged, or pro.mifes, to pay unto any other perom:, or his
order, or afligns, any nure of mrney therein xteritianzd, are not y.
lw afigriable or indorfe~ble'over to any perfon, fo as that the per-

fon to whq'm the f4id Bonds, Specialties, Note or Notes, is or are,
afligned orir~dorled, may, in their own names, by a6ion ;itlaw, oroth-trwir, recover the'fai'ne, &c." i Slate Laws, 77"This,"then, is concl-live as to the operation, or vffe& of the
affignment ot a -.
nd, or .the indorft1ent of a Note, pre-,
Ivioufly to thie paifig "of.the Ad; for, no afligniment, or in-dorfement. could tak.* place by lazu, thaugh it might in equity;
and, the affignee, or Inclorfee, could not, in ;ny cafe, fue in his ovn
r~ame. , The A ,however, aherw.ards provides for fuch affignment and indorfeilient totis queries :. Italfo, declares, that the perfon or perfoni to. whom, the aflignment or indorfemen.t is mad,
may, in riis. herof their. name, .ir rimjs, fue at lvmr, "for therecovery of tlf- money mentionrd In the Bond, Speciaky or Note, orf
nmuch lereofasjh.dl appeqr to be due at the titue of the afignment,.
n like mannerasthe perfon or perfoos to whom the fame was, or.
wefe, mae paygble, might, or could, have done f" and that " the.
afflgrWrs fhaIl not, ,after the affigpment, have power to releafe any.
of the debts or- ftui§ ofinoney rea/llueby tKle (aid Bonds, Special-,
ties, or Notes.'
The queltion before tle Court muR 'be decided upon a juft con-.
( ru ion0f thte patts'of the at.ot Alfembly, to which I*have jutk
referred.
Thropghout the whole of this A&, Bonds and Promiffory Notes!
are placed jxa .y on the [amefoPtihIgP; except, indeed, that Bonds amtA
Specialties ;re to be afigned under han4 and feal, and in tie prefence of two or more credible wvitneffLs : How,.then, ca.n the QC ter
make any diftin ioa or differene between atlignees ofthe one,anc.
indorfees of tlte other ? They certainly may both fue in their own,
names, and rerpeffive.ly recover the motey'mentionfd in the Bonds or
Notes, afligned'or indorfed, or fo much thereof as fhall be really
due thereon, ;n like manneras the obligees, or payees, couId have done ;
but; furly, this feems'to be equally clear, that neithercan recover.
more than what w.as reallydue at the time of the aflignment or in-.
Jorfement; in. other words, no more than. the original payees coulU
have done' prior to the transfer.
Before this a&twas palfed, it Appears, tlat ations by the payea.
of a Promiffory Note, were not maintained, nor cant they fuice be.
marintained, otherwife than by extending the Englih ftatute of 3 &
4 An. c. 9.j .i.,A&ions upon Promifmory Notes weae proba-.
bly brought here, fCon after the p.alling of the ftiute,..by attoxfiies.
who came from England,and were.apcuftomed to the forms of pra-.
;rce in that-kingdoin, but did rAot, perhaps, nicely attend toQ
the difqriminaufon with Pegardt to, the extenfion,, or adoption of ftatutes,.
I have

CASES ruled and adjudged in ,the

444

I have no doubt, indeed, that many aas of Parliament, paflid, not
Enly before, but fubequent to the union- of England and Scotland, have, by the failre means, been introduced and praaifed upon'
in 'Pennfylvania ;,and as experience has proved fuch proceedings to
be beneficial, fo conflant and uninterrupted ufage has given them alegal-exiftence. thatcannot now be haken or deftroyed. But the
.indorfees of Promiffory Notes, according to the befi information
which we can obtain, have never grounded their a2ions againift the
drawer, upon any other bafis than the a& of Affembly now under
confideration ; thoughi I think, the aaion by an indorfee, againif
Ihe ind' fr, muff be founded on the flatute of Inne, and the ufage
under it, as no fuch aelion is given by the a&.
The 9 ueftion, fo far as it relates to the affignees of Bonds, has
been determined in the affirmative, in the Supreme Couf t of Penn-fylvania, before the revolution. See ant. 23. And, as, on the one hand,
the Legiffature has madeno difference whatever bet ween the aflignees
of Bonds"and the indorfees of Notes, fo, on the othe', we cannot
difcover any folid or good reafon to introduce a diftin6 ion in the.
particular before us.
Upon the whole, we are unanimoufly of opinion, that the indorfee of a promiffory Note, does takeit, fubjc& to all equitablecon.
fEderations, to which the fame was fubje& in the hands of the indorfer, the original payee. And, thareiore,
Let the dcfcndant have a new trial.
CtMMINGS,

Affignee, verfus LYNN.

r-THIS was an action of [Covenant, and the circumfiances'un.X_ der which it came before the Court, were thefe: The plaintiff filed a declaration in the following'words;
'jofeph Lvynr, late of the county of Philadelphia,yeoman, wa* fum.
of 7ames Canpbell, and
nioned to anfwer lames tmngs,affignee
Stcphen Kingflon, who were affignees of George Turner, of a plea that

"
"

he hold witi him the covenants and agreements of him the faid Jofeph with the faid George made, according to the force,, form, and
effe& of a certain deed thereof by him the faid Jofeph, with the faid
Georgemade, &c. And thereupon the faid 7amns Cununings faith, that
on the 6th day of February, in the year of our Lord, one thoufand
fevcn hundred and eighty-four, at the county aforef iid, a certain

"Wichas

Evdelgh, of the State of South- Ca-olina, by his certain

obligation, or writing obligatory, fcaled with his feal, and to the
,eCourt here flewn, whofe date is the day and year aforefaid, acknowiedged himfelf fo be held and firmly bound unto a certain
, Lewis Leylargette, in the fui

of thtee hundred andfixty-four Pounds,

, twelve.Iiings, flerling money, in gold or filver fpecie at the rate of
f, .1rhifings andeightpence to the dollar, or onepound onefliiing and

" nine pence to the guinea, to be paid to the faid Lewis, his certain
1 attorney,

