244

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

NEWMAN

verfus

BR A D LEY.

N this cafe H.( well, who was of counfel with the PlaintifF, proved
that the Defcndant on a citation to hew caufe of a°dion &c.
acknowledged that he borrowed the' money in queflion, from the
Plaintiff, but declared, at the fame time, that he had revaid it.
This was the chief evidence to fupport the adion ; and Howell and
Tod contended, that the acknowledgment was, of itfelf, fufficient
to charge the Defendant, but that what he faid ;n avoidance of the
Plaintiff's demand ought to.be proved. Gilb. Law of Ev. 51.
Levy, on the contrary, urged that the confeflion mult be taken in
the whole, as well that part, which acquits the Defendant from
the debt; as that which tends to charge him with it. Tri. per Pais.
363.. He allowed, however, that there were fome cafes, where the
confeffion might properly be believed againft the party who'makes
it, though reje~led in thofe points which- operate in his favor.
Upon an indidment of Larceny, for inftance, if the Defendant fays
he had the flolen goods in his poffeflion, but alledges that he bought
tnem, the Jury will g.ive credit to the former, but difregard the latter part of his confeffon. The improbability of the circumftance,
alledged in excufe or exoneration, is the criterion to judge from;
and in the cafe cited from Gilb. Law ofEv. 5r. the improbability
that fo large a fum Ihould be given as a reward out of fo fma.ll an
eftate, was, perhaps the ground of decifion.
But. in the prefent
cafe, the obje& (about £.io.) was trifling in itfelf, and ilo circumftance of improbability attended the Defendant's relation of the
fad.
SHIPPEN, Prefidev.This is the very cafe put in the books, and
-the rule -which is founded upon it, extends generally t3 all civil
fuitm
When a confeffion is given in evidence, all that was faid
muff be flated, and the *$,ole, generally tpeaking, ought to be
taken together, unlefs fuch circumftances oi improbability appear,
as will render it neceffary for the Defendant to prove what he afferts
-in avoidance of a conceded fad.
It is true, there are fome occalions when a Jury will charge a' man with what he acknowledges
againft himfelf, and yet refufe to credit him for what he advances in
his own favor.
As, if he fhould admit, that he purchafed the
goods, which the Plaintiff alledges were fold to him, but infifts that
he paid for them at a particular time and place, in the prefence of
certain perfons ; and thofe perfons, on being examiried, declare
that they were prefent at the time and place mentioned, but that
they did not fee the Detendant make any payment to the Plaintiff:
here, undoubtedly, the rule ought 'not to operate.
In the prefent cafe, alfo, the Jury will not be influenced -by the
Defendant's faying he repaid the money, if they do not think it
credible, or if any thing can be gathered from the evidence, to fhew

that it was not paid, when he fays it was.
Verdi&

COURT

of

COMMON PLEAS

of Phllade hia CoUnty.

249.

Verdi& for the Plaintiff; owing, I believe, to fome flight teftirnony, thdt feemed to repel the ida of the Defendant's having repaid the money.
When Howdll offered himfelf aF a witnefs, Levy obeed that he
was interefted, inafmuch as his judgment fee depended on hiv fuccefs in the caufe. But the objecion was over-ruled by the cuurt

J ACKSON ct al. Exors. verfus

VANHORN.

TUDGMENT had been entered by non fum Infirmatus in this
cauti, as the Defendant did not appear on the dam oft a].
'it
&Yrgeantnow moved to opl:n thejudgment, upon an affidavit that the
Defindant had notice of the trial for the ith, infteiid of the i 3 th,
and that there wi)s ajuft and confcionable defence.
Ltwis, for the Piaintiff faid. that he did not mean to conteft the
matter, but he wifhed it to be fettled, whetherthe mift ke o; aa
Attorney, was, in fuch cafes, fufficient to fet afide ajuigment.
BY THE COURT. On a miftake of this kind, e;idently appear.
ig, we cannot relufe the motion.

J

PENMAN
A

et al. verfus WA'YNE.

Rule had been obtained to fhew caufe why the Capias, which"
iffued in this cafe, hould not be qua flied, the DJendant
being a freeholder in the county of Chefler. It appeared, that, witir
the Pracipefor the writ, an affirmation .of one Rumford Davis, wa§
filed in the Prothonotary'sOffice, fetting forth, that " the Defen" dan had not been Reident in this"State for two years before the
date of the writ;" and, it was contended, that this was fufficient,
tinder the A& of Affembly, to repel the Defendant's claim of privilege. x St. Laws 139.
The queftion, therefore, was, whether the Court could, notwithftanding the affirmition filed before the writ iffued, enquire into the
matter of rtidence; in order to determine, on all the circumftances
of the cafe, whether the Defendant was within The exceptions of the
a&? It was twice argued, on the 21ft and 2 3 d of May, by Sergeant
for the Plaintiff, and Lewis for the Defendant; and the fubftance of
both arguments was as follows.
For the Plaintiff.-'Ihe A& of A:Tembly refis the proof exclufively on the Affidavit of the party, or fome perfon for him ; requiring only that he fhould make the fa&, whi-zh defeats a freeholder's
ivilege from arreft, appear to the Jufice who grants the writ.
Nor will the fe&ion admit of the diylifion for which the adverft
counfel contend ; becaufe, though there is a claufe providing thaL
things fhall not be proved by affidavit, which, in their nature
eftablifh a higher degree of proof; as judgments, mortgages &c. y(eje
eve

7

