.SUFRI-MI COURT of.;Prfnyka~Ia.

C760

4pril Term

:1
76 0

WIL 1A ALLEN, .Chief juftice.
;',-Ca
LAWRNc E GROWDEp;,,
WILIIAM COL MAN, f

STEVE.NS.OC

verf

Ju"i

"

PAM,3ZRTON.
J

SCIR
E facfas agamnft pefeudant as AGarnif!iee. The Cafe was;
'ilC. in the etl.-Inaiks was indebted to P, the Defendant, for
il1 of Exchange drawn by C, in Favo'ir of P. -whichwere pro.telted. P. by- etter folicits C. for-Security. C. configns a Quan.ity of Rum to P,.and by Letter diie&s P. to fell the fame for his
(C's) Account, ard apply the Proceeds to the Payment of fome pro.tefted Bills drwn by .C. infavour of othdr People' fift heingfalisfied that hj (P's) Bills-werpaid."-TheBills of Lading exprefs

this Rum to bo fhipt on the properoAccount and Rifque of' C-The Rum comes into P's Hands, but &for.-any Ssk, the Plaintiff S.
a Creditor of C. brQught a foreign Attachment againit C. and attached thefe Goods in'the Hands of P.-The qetjion on thefe
Fa&s,as fouid by a fpecial Verdi&, was, Whether P. 'hould retain
the Goods for the Payment of his own Dzbi, or whether the -Property remained in C, fo as to be liable to the -Attachment of S.?
It was urged by the Council for the Plaintiff, that the Confignment
of this Rum to P. on the Account of V. with Orders to fell the
fame on the Account f C. and then -to apply the Proceeds according
to his Dire&ions, did not alter the Propertyj but left the fame in C.
till a Sale.. And that P; vas only to have a future Intereft in the
Money arifing from the Sale ofthe Gqods,--,But the Plaintiff being as
well a Creditor as the Defendant, and coming iii under the Law of
Attachments efire a Sale and. while the Property, by the very Terms
'of the Confignment, remined in C. ought to be firfi paid his Debt.
The counfel cited Bro. Property 2 M .1-%f% 2 Chan. Cafes." 7p6. i, Salk. z6 o. x2 Mdd. 156. For the Defendant - It ivas contended, that the Rum was a Securitv in' the Hands of P. for the Payment of P's Debt, and that P,
was aTrufee for himfelf and the other Dutch Bill, Creditors. And
that fuch a fpecial Property was vefred in P. that C. himfelf could
,have no Remedy to get thefe Goods out of the Hands of P. till P's
Debt was fatisfied; and that the Plaintiff could be in no hetter cafe
than C, himfelf.-The Cafes cited for the Defendant were 2 erix.
428'. 2 Thomas _7ones 222, 2 .Pere Mtllarns 2 6. Bro. .4at. fir
47afe X13. 271. Finch 299, 236. ioMod. 432. Ai'v. 164. 2 Ltx za
2 Co. 26. I 8tra, 165.w
.jol
od. ~ia.

~Us.C~J~z5.eis

4:
176o.

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

BY THE COURT. This Rum appears to have been fent to faStisfy P's Debt. If it iad been Money, there could have been no
doubt but the Defendant would have retained it. And the only
difference is -,at a Commodity was fent which muft be convei ted into Money; befbre the Sum to be paid to P. could be afcertained, but, as to P's intereft in it, the Cafe was the fame.. Therefore
judgment, by thewhole Court. was given for the Ditendant.
Gezv and Molana pro Quer--Galoway and Dickenjon pro Def.

The Lefee of
Prefent

ASH TON

verfus

LAWRFNqE ('RoWDON
WILLIAM .COLEMAN. I

AsliTON.

Juffices.
s

N fpecial Verdi&. Devife to thefir Her _Alal ofI. S. when
he flialkarrive to the Age of 21 Years, hepaying to A. and* B.
the Daughters of I. S. £. 4o each.-.dfter DevJcr's Death I. S.
liada Son, whoattained the Age of 21 Years, and paid his Sifters the
0

£. 40 each.

'1 he Queftion was, whether the Son of I. S. could take by executory. Del ife?- 2-'Itwas obje&ed for the Defendant, i ft. That this
being a prefcnt Devife it could not take Effe& becaufe to a Perfor
not in Si/e. 2d. That though it might be confitrued a fiture Devife,"
yet it -v%
as too remote; for an executory Devife mull take "effet
within tie Compafs of a Life or.Lives in effS, or at fartheft within
nine Months after: And in this cafe I. S. might have had no Son
but a Daughter, who might hzve had a Daughter, who might have
lbad a Son, who would have been the fir? Heir lkale of I. S. which
would have been too remote a Contingency, and would have fended to
x Perpetuity. And the Cafe muff be confidered as at the Time of
makingthe Devife, that is, how it might be; andnot howithas actually happened. 3d, That the Sonof I. S. ould not take, becauife
thdLimitation was to thefirf HeirMale and Nerno eJ2 Hres ivt-*
'is.
For the' Plaintiff it was anfwered: ift. That this was no prefent
Devife, the Teftator taking Notice that I. S. had no Son born by th'
Wordfirj? Heir Male, and ufing the Words wlen and paying.-2d.
That this Contingency was not too remote, becaufe the Teftator by.
the Wordsfir#fl -eir Male, muft have meantfirft Son; and that fuch
aConfiu~tion'muft be made asto carry the Ihtent of the Teftator into
Execution.- 3 d. Firfl HeirMaleare Words of Putchafe and ADfignatioPerfonge, and the Law will fupply the Words of -the Bdy in
a Will
. BY Ta COURT. The Intent of the Teflator is clear, that thefirfi
Son of I. S,lhould take. Therefore judgrent BY THE Co.URT.
. Cafe cited; r Lord Raym. 2o7 I.Salk 29. 7'albat's Cafes 44..
145- 1 Vern 729. -in .ev. 315. 2 Pent 311. I Pr. l-lians.
229. 2 Co. 20, 2 Peer. Jrwlia.,s-1.96. 2Salk 621.

50.

Chewv pro Quer. ?oland and D.ckenfan pro Def.
Fc

Is Asd- 279. I87. x .4ifl. 24.

*

.Apri

