OCTOBER TERM, 1994
Syllabus

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA,
SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE TENTH CIRCUIT
No. 93-1841.

Argued January 17, 1995-Decided June 12, 1995

Most federal agency contracts must contain a subcontractor compensation
clause, which gives a prime contractor a financial incentive to hire subcontractors certified as small businesses controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, and requires the contractor to presume that such individuals include minorities or any other individuals
found to be disadvantaged by the Small Business Administration (SBA).
The prime contractor under a federal highway construction contract
containing such a clause awarded a subcontract to a company that was
certified as a small disadvantaged business. The record does not reveal
how the company obtained its certification, but it could have been by
any one of three routes: under one of two SBA programs-known as the
8(a) and 8(d) programs--or by a state agency under relevant Department of Transportation regulations. Petitioner Adarand Constructors,
Inc., which submitted the low bid on the subcontract but was not a
certified business, filed suit against respondent federal officials, claiming
that the race-based presumptions used in subcontractor compensation
clauses violate the equal protection component of the Fifth Amendment's Due Process Clause. The District Court granted respondents
summary judgment. In affirming, the Court of Appeals assessed the
constitutionality of the federal race-based action under a lenient standard, resembling intermediate scrutiny, which it determined was required by Fullilove v. Klutznick, 448 U. S. 448, and Metro Broadcasting,
Inc. v. FCC,497 U. S. 547.
Held: The judgment is vacated, and the case is remanded.
16 F. 3d 1537, vacated and remanded.
JUSTICE O'CONNOR delivered an opinion with respect to Parts I, II,
III-A, III-B, III-D, and IV, which was for the Court except insofar as
it might be inconsistent with the views expressed in JUSTICE SCALA'S
concurrence, concluding that:
1. Adarand has standing to seek forward-looking relief It has met
the requirements necessary to maintain its claim by alleging an invasion
of a legally protected interest in a particularized manner, and by showing that it is very likely to bid, in the relatively near future, on another
Government contract offering financial incentives to a prime contractor

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
Syllabus
for hiring disadvantaged subcontractors. See Lujan v. Defenders of
Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 560. Pp. 210-212.
2. All racial classifications, imposed by whatever federal, state, or
local governmental actor, must be analyzed by a reviewing court under
strict scrutiny. Pp. 212-281; 235-239.
(a) In Richmond v. J A Croson Co., 488 U.S. 469, a majority of
the Court held that the Fourteenth Amendment requires strict scrutiny
of all race-based action by state and local governments. While Croson
did not consider what standard of review the Fifth Amendment requires
for such action taken by the Federal Government, the Court's cases
through Croson had established three general propositions with respect
to governmental racial classifications. First, skepticism: "'Any preference based on racial or ethnic criteria must necessarily receive a most
searching examination,"' Wygant v. Jackson Bd. of Ed., 476 U. S. 267,
273-274. Second, consistency: "[T]he standard of review under the
Equal Protection Clause is not dependent on the race of those burdened
or benefited by a particular classification," Croson,supra, at 494. And
third, congruence: "Equal protection analysis in the Fifth Amendment
area is the same as that under the Fourteenth Amendment," Buckley v.
Valeo, 424 U. S. 1, 93. Taken together, these propositions lead to the
conclusion that any person, of whatever race, has the right to demand
that any governmental actor subject to the Constitution justify any
racial classification subjecting that person to unequal treatment under
the strictest judicial scrutiny. Pp. 212-225.
(b) However, a year after Croson, the Court, in Metro Broadcasting, upheld two federal race-based policies against a Fifth Amendment
challenge. The Court repudiated the long-held notion that "it would be
unthinkable that the same Constitution would impose a lesser duty on
the Federal Government" than it does on a State to afford equal protection of the laws, Bolling v. Sharpe, 347 U. S. 497, 500, by holding that
congressionally mandated "benign" racial classifications need only satisfy intermediate scrutiny. By adopting that standard, Metro Broadcasting departed from prior cases in two significant respects. First, it
turned its back on Croson's explanation that strict scrutiny of governmental racial classifications is essential because it may not always be
clear that a so-called preference is in fact benign. Second, it squarely
rejected one of the three propositions established by this Court's earlier
cases, namely, congruence between the standards applicable to federal
and state race-based action, and in doing so also undermined the other
two. Pp. 225-227.
(c) The propositions undermined by Metro Broadcastingall derive
from the basic principle that the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments
protect persons, not groups. It follows from that principle that all gov-

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Syllabus
ernmental action based on race-a group classification long recognized
as in most circumstances irrelevant and therefore prohibited-should be
subjected to detailed judicial inquiry to ensure that the personal right
to equal protection has not been infringed. Thus, strict scrutiny is the
proper standard for analysis of all racial classifications, whether imposed
by a federal, state, or local actor. To the extent that Metro Broadcasting is inconsistent with that holding, it is overruled. Pp. 227-231.
(d) The decision here makes explicit that federal racial classifications, like those of a State, must serve a compelling governmental interest, and must be narrowly tailored to further that interest. Thus, to
the extent that Fullilove held federal racial classifications to be subject
to a less rigorous standard, it is no longer controlling. Requiring strict
scrutiny is the best way to ensure that courts will consistently give
racial classifications a detailed examination, as to both ends and means.
It is not true that strict scrutiny is strict in theory, but fatal in fact.
Government is not disqualified from acting in response to the unhappy
persistence of both the practice and the lingering effects of racial discrimination against minority groups in this country. When race-based
action is necessary to further a compelling interest, such action is within
constitutional constraints if it satisfies the "narrow tailoring" test set
out in this Court's previous cases. Pp. 235-237.
3. Because this decision alters the playing field in some important
respects, the case is remanded to the lower courts for further consideration. The Court of Appeals did not decide whether the interests
served by the use of subcontractor compensation clauses are properly
described as "compelling." Nor did it address the question of narrow
tailoring in terms of this Court's strict scrutiny cases. Unresolved
questions also remain concerning the details of the complex regulatory
regimes implicated by the use of such clauses. Pp. 237-238.
JUSTICE ScMAA agreed that strict scrutiny must be applied to racial
classifications imposed by all governmental actors, but concluded that
government can never have a "compelling interest" in discriminating on
the basis of race in order to "make up" for past racial discrimination in
the opposite direction. Under the Constitution there can be no such
thing as either a creditor or a debtor race. We are just one race in the
eyes of government. P. 239.
J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered an
opinion with respect to Parts I, II, III-A, III-B, III-D, and IV, which was
for the Court except insofar as it might be inconsistent with the views
expressed in the concurrence of ScAuiA, J., and an opinion with respect to
Part III-C. Parts I, II, III-A, III-B, III-D, and IV of that opinion were
joined by REHNQUIsT, C. J., and KENNEDY and THomAs, JJ., and by
O'CONNOR,

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)

Syllabus
SCALIA, J., to the extent heretofore indicated; and Part III-C was joined
by KENNEDY, J. SCALIA, J., post, p. 239, and THOMAS, J., post, p. 240, filed
opinions concurring in part and concurring in the judgment. STEVENS,
J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which GINSBURG, J., joined, post, p. 242.
SOUTER, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which GINSBURG and BREYER,
JJ., joined, post, p. 264. GINSBURG, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which
BREYER, J., joined, post, p. 271.

William Perry Pendley argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the briefs were Todd S. Welch and Steven J
Lechner.
Solicitor General Days argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were Assistant Attorney General
Patrick, Deputy Solicitor General Bender, Cornelia T L.
Pillard,David K. Flynn, Lisa C. Wilson, Paul M. Geier,
and Edward V A. Kussy.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for Associated General Contractors of America, Inc., by John G.Roberts, Jr., David G. Leitch,
and Michael E. Kennedy; for the Atlantic Legal Foundation by Martin S.
Kaufman; for the Federalist Society, Ohio State University College of
Law Chapter, by Michael D.Rose; for L. S. Lee, Inc., et al. by Walter H.
Ryland; for the Pacific Legal Foundation by Ronald A. Zumbrun, John
H. Findley, and Anthony T Caso; and for the Washington Legal Foundation et al. by Daniel J Popeo and RichardA. Samp.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were fied for the State of
Maryland et al. by J Joseph Curran,Jr., Attorney General of Maryland,
and Evelyn 0. Cannon,Assistant Attorney General, Grant Woods, Attorney General of Arizona, Richard Blumenthal, Attorney General of Connecticut, Robert A. Marks, Attorney General of Hawaii, Roland W.Burris,
Attorney General of Illinois, Pamela F Carter,Attorney General of Indiana, Scott Harshbarger,Attorney General of Massachusetts, Hubert H.
Humphrey III,Attorney General of Minnesota, Tom Udall, Attorney General of New Mexico, G. Oliver Koppell, Attorney General of New York,
Michael F. Easley,Attorney General of North Carolina, Lee Fisher,Attorney General of Ohio, Theodore R. Kulongoski, Attorney General of Oregon, Christine 0. Gregoire, Attorney General of Washington, James E.
Doyle, Attorney General of Wisconsin, EriasA. Hyman, Acting Corporation Counsel for the District of Columbia, and Eleni M. Constantine;for
the Coalition for Economic Equity et al. by William C. McNeill III and
Judith E. Kurtz; for the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus
et al. by Koteles Alexander and Brian J Murphy; for the Congressional

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of the Court
JUSTICE O'CONNOR announced the judgment of the Court

and delivered an opinion with respect to Parts I, II, III-A,
III-B, III-D, and IV, which is for the Court except insofar as
it might be inconsistent with the views expressed in JUSTICE
SCALIA's concurrence, and an opinion with respect to Part
III-C in which JUSTICE KENNEDY joins.
Petitioner Adarand Constructors, Inc., claims that the
Federal Government's practice of giving general contractors
on Government projects a financial incentive to hire subcontractors controlled by "socially and economically disadvantaged individuals," and in particular, the Government's use
of race-based presumptions in identifying such individuals,
violates the equal protection component of the Fifth Amendment's Due Process Clause. The Court of Appeals rejected
Adarand's claim. We conclude, however, that courts should
analyze cases of this kind under a different standard of review than the one the Court of Appeals applied. We thereBlack Caucus by H. Russell Frisby, Jr., and Thomas £ Madden; for the
Equality in Enterprise Opportunities Association, Inc., by Kenneth A
Martin; for the Latin American Management Association by Pamela J
Mazza,; for the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law et al. by
John Payton, John H. Pickering, Michael A. Cooper, Herbert J Hansell,
Thomas J Henderson, Richard T Seymour, Sharon R. Vinick, Steven R.
Shapiro, DonnaR. Lenhoff, and MarciaD. Greenberger;for the Minority
Business Enterprise Legal Defense and Education Fund, Inc., et al. by
Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., and Maureen F Del Duca; for the Minority Media
and Telecommunications Council et al. by David Honig and Angela Campbell; for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
by Ronald D. Maines, Dennis Courtland Hayes, and Willie Abrams; and
for the National Coalition of Minority Businesses by Weldon H. Latham.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the NAACP Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, Inc., by Elaine R. Jones, Theodore M. Shaw, Charles
Stephen Ralston, and Eric Schnapper; for the National Association of Minority Businesses by Carlos M. Sandoval and Warren W. Grossman; for
the Maryland Women Business Entrepreneurs Association et al. by Kathleen T Schwallie, Janice K Cunningham, and Peter A Teholiz; and for
the National Bar Association et al. by J Clay Smith, Jr.

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

fore vacate the Court of Appeals' judgment and remand the
case for further proceedings.
I
In 1989, the Central Federal Lands Highway Division
(CFLHD), which is part of the United States Department
of Transportation (DOT), awarded the prime contract for
a highway construction project in Colorado to Mountain
Gravel & Construction Company. Mountain Gravel then solicited bids from subcontractors for the guardrail portion of
the contract. Adarand, a Colorado-based highway construction company specializing in guardrail work, submitted the
low bid. Gonzales Construction Company also submitted a
bid.
The prime contract's terms provide that Mountain Gravel
would receive additional compensation if it hired subcontractors certified as small businesses controlled by "socially and
economically disadvantaged individuals," App. 24. Gonzales
is certified as such a business; Adarand is not. Mountain
Gravel awarded the subcontract to Gonzales, despite Adarand's low bid, and Mountain Gravel's Chief Estimator has
submitted an affidavit stating that Mountain Gravel would
have accepted Adarand's bid, had it not been for the additional payment it received by hiring Gonzales instead. Id.,
at 28-31. Federal law requires that a subcontracting clause
similar to the one used here must appear in most federal
agency contracts, and it also requires the clause to state that
"[t]he contractor shall presume that socially and economically disadvantaged individuals include Black Americans,
Hispanic Americans, Native Americans, Asian Pacific Americans, and other minorities, or any other individual found to
be disadvantaged by the [Small Business] Administration
pursuant to section 8(a) of the Small Business Act." 15
U. S. C. §§ 637(d)(2), (3). Adarand claims that the presumption set forth in that statute discriminates on the basis of

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of the Court

race in violation of the Federal Government's Fifth Amendment obligation not to deny anyone equal protection of the
laws.
These fairly straightforward facts implicate a complex
scheme of federal statutes and regulations, to which we now
turn. The Small Business Act (Act), 72 Stat. 384, as
amended, 15 U. S. C. §631 et seq., declares it to be "the policy
of the United States that small business concerns, [and] small
business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals,... shall have the maximum practicable opportunity to participate in the performance of contracts let by any Federal agency." §8(d)(1), 15
U. S. C. §637(d)(1). The Act defines "socially disadvantaged
individuals" as "those who have been subjected to racial or
ethnic prejudice or cultural bias because of their identity as
a member of a group without regard to their individual qualities," § 8(a)(5), 15 U. S. C. § 637(a)(5), and it defines "economically disadvantaged individuals" as "those socially disadvantaged individuals whose ability to compete in the free
enterprise system has been impaired due to diminished capital and credit opportunities as compared to others in the
same business area who are not socially disadvantaged."
§8(a)(6)(A), 15 U. S. C. § 637(a)(6)(A).
In furtherance of the policy stated in § 8(d)(1), the Act establishes "[t]he Government-wide goal for participation by
small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and
economically disadvantaged individuals" at "not less than 5
percent of the total value of all prime contract and subcontract awards for each fiscal year." 15 U. S. C. § 644(g)(1).
It also requires the head of each federal agency to set
agency-specific goals for participation by businesses controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals. Ibid.
The- Small Business Administration (SBA) has implemented these statutory directives in a variety of ways, two
of which are relevant here. One is the "8(a) program,"

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

which is available to small businesses controlled by socially
and economically disadvantaged individuals as the SBA has
defined those terms. The 8(a) program confers a wide range
of benefits on participating businesses, see, e.g., 13 CFR
§§ 124.303-124.311, 124.403 (1994); 48 CFR subpt. 19.8 (1994),
one of which is automatic eligibility for subcontractor compensation provisions of the kind at issue in this case, 15
U. S. C. § 637(d)(3)(C) (conferring presumptive eligibility on
anyone "found to be disadvantaged ... pursuant to section
8(a) of the Small Business Act"). To participate in the 8(a)
program, a business must be "small," as defined in 13 CFR
§ 124.102 (1994); and it must be 51% owned by individuals
who qualify as "socially and economically disadvantaged,"
§ 124.103. The SBA presumes that black, Hispanic, Asian
Pacific, Subcontinent Asian, and Native Americans, as well
as "members of other groups designated from time to time
by SBA," are "socially disadvantaged," § 124.105(b)(1). It
also allows any individual not a member of a listed group to
prove social disadvantage "on the basis of clear and convincing evidence," as described in §124.105(c). Social disadvantage is not enough to establish eligibility, however; SBA
also requires each 8(a) program participant to prove "economic disadvantage" according to the criteria set forth in
§ 124.106(a).
The other SBA program relevant to this case is the "8(d)
subcontracting program," which unlike the 8(a) program is
limited to eligibility for subcontracting provisions like the
one at issue here. In determining eligibility, the SBA presumes social disadvantage based on membership in certain
minority groups, just as in the 8(a) program, and again appears to require an individualized, although "less restrictive," showing of economic disadvantage, § 124.106(b). A
different set of regulations, however, says that members of
minority groups wishing to participate in the 8(d) subcontracting program are entitled to a race-based presumption
of social and economic disadvantage. 48 CFR §§ 19.001,

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of the Court

19.703(a)(2) (1994). We are left with some uncertainty as
to whether participation in the 8(d) subcontracting program
requires an individualized showing of economic disadvantage. In any event, in both the 8(a) and the 8(d) programs,
the presumptions of disadvantage are rebuttable if a third
party comes forward with evidence suggesting that the participant is not, in fact, either economically or socially disadvantaged. 13 CFR §§ 124.111(c)-(d), 124.601-124.609 (1994).
The contract giving rise to the dispute in this case came
about as a result of the Surface Transportation and Uniform
Relocation Assistance Act of 1987, Pub. L. 100-17, 101 Stat.
132 (STURAA), a DOT appropriations measure. Section
106(c)(1) of STURAA provides that "not less than 10 percent" of the appropriated funds "shall be expended with
small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and
economically disadvantaged individuals." 101 Stat. 145.
STURAA adopts the Small Business Act's definition of "socially and economically disadvantaged individual," including
the applicable race-based presumptions, and adds that
"women shall be presumed to be socially and economically
disadvantaged individuals for purposes of this subsection."
§ 106(c)(2)(B), 101 Stat. 146. STURAA also requires the
Secretary of Transportation to establish "minimum uniform
criteria for State governments to use in certifying whether
a concern qualifies for purposes of this subsection."
§ 106(c)(4), 101 Stat. 146. The Secretary has done so in 49
CFR pt. 23, subpt. D (1994). Those regulations say that the
certifying authority should presume both social and economic disadvantage (i. e., eligibility to participate) if the applicant belongs to certain racial groups, or is a woman. 49
CFR §23.62 (1994); 49 CFR pt. 23, subpt. D, App. C (1994).
As with the SBA programs, third parties may come forward
with evidence in an effort to rebut the presumption of disadvantage for a particular business. 49 CFR §23.69 (1994).
The operative clause in the contract in this case reads as
follows:

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

"Subcontracting. This subsection is supplemented to
include a Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE)
Development and Subcontracting Provision as follows:
"Monetary compensation is offered for awarding
subcontracts to small business concerns owned and
controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged
individuals....
"A small business concern will be considered a DBE
after it has been certified as such by the U. S. Small
Business Administration or any State Highway Agency.
Certification by other Government agencies, counties, or
cities may be acceptable on an individual basis provided
the Contracting Officer has determined the certifying
agency has an acceptable and viable DBE certification
program. If the Contractor requests payment under
this provision, the Contractor shall furnish the engineer
with acceptable evidence of the subcontractor(s) DBE
certification and shall furnish one certified copy of the
executed subcontract(s).
"The Contractor will be paid an amount computed as
follows:
"1. If a subcontract is awarded to one DBE, 10 percent of the final amount of the approved DBE subcontract, not to exceed 1.5 percent of the original contract
amount.
"2. If subcontracts are awarded to two or more DBEs,
10 percent of the final amount of the approved DBE subcontracts, not to exceed 2 percent of the original contract amount." App. 24-26.
To benefit from this clause, Mountain Gravel had to hire a
subcontractor who had been certified as a small disadvantaged business by the SBA, a state highway agency, or some
other certifying authority acceptable to the contracting officer. Any of the three routes to such certification described
above-SBA's 8(a) or 8(d) program, or certification by a State

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of the Court

under the DOT regulations-would meet that requirement.
The record does not reveal how Gonzales obtained its certification as a small disadvantaged business.
After losing the guardrail subcontract to Gonzales, Adarand filed suit against various federal officials in the United
States District Court for the District of Colorado, claiming
that the race-based presumptions involved in the use of subcontracting compensation clauses violate Adarand's right to
equal protection. The District Court granted the Government's motion for summary judgment. Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Skinner, 790 F. Supp. 240 (1992). The Court of
Appeals for the Tenth Circuit affirmed. 16 F. 3d 1537 (1994).
It understood our decision in Fullilove v. Klutznick, 448
U. S.448 (1980), to have adopted "a lenient standard, resembling intermediate scrutiny, in assessing" the constitutionality of federal race-based action. 16 F. 3d, at 1544. Applying that "lenient standard," as further developed in Metro
Broadcasting,Inc. v. FCC,497 U. S. 547 (1990), the Court of
Appeals upheld the use of subcontractor compensation
clauses. 16 F. 3d, at 1547. We granted certiorari. 512
U. S.1288 (1994).
II
Adarand, in addition to its general prayer for "such other
and further relief as to the Court seems just and equitable,"
specifically seeks declaratory and injunctive relief against
any future use of subcontractor compensation clauses. App.
22-23 (complaint). Before reaching the merits of Adarand's
challenge, we must consider whether Adarand has standing
to seek forward-looking relief. Adarand's allegation that it
has lost a contract in the past because of a subcontractor
compensation clause of course entitles it to seek damages for
the loss of that contract (we express no view, however, as to
whether sovereign immunity would bar such relief on these
facts). But as we explained in Los Angeles v. Lyons, 461
U. S. 95 (1983), the fact of past injury, "while presumably
affording [the plaintiff] standing to claim damages ....does

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)

Opinion of the Court

nothing to establish a real and immediate threat that he
would again" suffer similar injury in the future. Id., at 105.
If Adarand is to maintain its claim for forward-looking
relief, our cases require it to allege that the use of subcontractor compensation clauses in the future constitutes "an
invasion of a legally protected interest which is (a) concrete
and particularized, and (b) actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical." Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504
U. S. 555, 560 (1992) (footnote, citations, and internal quotation marks omitted). Adarand's claim that the Government's use of subcontractor compensation clauses denies it
equal protection of the laws of course alleges an invasion of
a legally protected interest, and it does so in a manner that
is "particularized" as to Adarand. We note that, contrary to
respondents' suggestion, see Brief for Respondents 29-30,
Adarand need not demonstrate that it has been, or will be,
the low bidder on a Government contract. The injury in
cases of this kind is that a "discriminatory classification prevent[s] the plaintiff from competing on an equal footing."
NortheasternFla. Chapter,Associated Gen. Contractorsof
America v. Jacksonville, 508 U. S. 656, 667 (1993). The aggrieved party "need not allege that he would have obtained
the benefit but for the barrier in order to establish standing."
Id., at 666.
It is less clear, however, that the future use of subcontractor compensation clauses will cause Adarand "imminent" injury. We said in Lujan that "[a]lthough 'imminence' is concededly a somewhat elastic concept, it cannot be stretched
beyond its purpose, which is to ensure that the alleged injury
is not too speculative for Article III purposes-that the injury is 'certainly impending."' Lujan, supra, at 565, n. 2.
We therefore must ask whether Adarand has made an adequate showing that sometime in the relatively near future it
will bid on another Government contract that offers financial
incentives to a prime contractor for hiring disadvantaged
subcontractors.

212

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of the Court

We conclude that Adarand has satisfied this requirement.
Adarand's general manager said in a deposition that his company bids on every guardrail project in Colorado. See
Reply Brief for Petitioner 5-A. According to documents
produced in discovery, the CFLHD let 14 prime contracts in
Colorado that included guardrail work between 1983 and
1990. Plaintiff's Motion for Summary Judgment in No. 90C-1413, Exh. I, Attachment A (D. Colo.). Two of those contracts do not present the kind of injury Adarand alleges here.
In one, the prime contractor did not subcontract out the
guardrail work; in another, the prime contractor was itself a
disadvantaged business, and in such cases the contract generally does not include a subcontractor compensation clause.
Ibid.; see also id., Supplemental Exhibits, Deposition of
Craig Actis 14 (testimony of CFLHD employee that 8(a) contracts do not include subcontractor compensation clauses).
Thus, statistics from the years 1983 through 1990 indicate
that the CFLHD lets on average 1 contracts per year that
could injure Adarand in the manner it alleges here. Nothing in the record suggests that the CFLHD has altered the
frequency with which it lets contracts that include guardrail
work. And the record indicates that Adarand often must
compete for contracts against companies certified as small
disadvantaged businesses. See id., Exh. F, Attachments
1-3. Because the evidence in this case indicates that the
CFLHD is likely to let contracts involving guardrail work
that contain a subcontractor compensation clause at least
once per year in Colorado, that Adarand is very likely to bid
on each such contract, and that Adarand often must compete
for such contracts against small disadvantaged businesses,
we are satisfied that Adarand has standing to bring this
lawsuit.
III
Respondents urge that "[t]he Subcontracting Compensation Clause program is ...a program based on disadvantage,
not on race," and thus that it is subject only to "the most

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

relaxed judicial scrutiny." Brief for Respondents 26. To
the extent that the statutes and regulations involved in this
case are race neutral, we agree. Respondents concede, however, that "the race-based rebuttable presumption used in
some certification determinations under the Subcontracting
Compensation Clause" is subject to some heightened level of
scrutiny. Id., at 27. The parties disagree as to what that
level should be. (We note, incidentally, that this case concerns only classifications based explicitly on race, and presents none of the additional difficulties posed by laws that,
although facially race neutral, result in racially disproportionate impact and are motivated by a racially discriminatory
purpose. See generally Arlington Heights v. Metropolitan
Housing Development Corp., 429 U. S. 252 (1977); Washington v. Davis, 426 U. S.229 (1976).)
Adarand's claim arises under the Fifth Amendment to the
Constitution, which provides that "No person shall ... be
deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of
law." Although this Court has always understood that
Clause to provide some measure of protection against arbitrary treatment by the Federal Government, it is not as explicit a guarantee of equal treatment as the Fourteenth
Amendment, which provides that "No State shall.., deny
to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of
the laws" (emphasis added). Our cases have accorded varying degrees of significance to the difference in the language
of those two Clauses. We think it necessary to revisit the
issue here.
A
Through the 1940's, this Court had routinely taken the
view in non-race-related cases that, "[u]nlike the Fourteenth
Amendment, the Fifth contains no equal protection clause
and it provides no guaranty against discriminatory legislation by Congress." Detroit Bank v. United States, 317 U. S.
329, 337 (1943); see also, e. g., Helvering v. Lerner Stores
Corp., 314 U. S. 463,468 (1941); LaBelle Iron Works v. United

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of the Court

States, 256 U. S. 377, 392 (1921) ("Reference is made to cases
decided under the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment... ; but clearly they are not in point. The
Fifth Amendment has no equal protection clause"). When
the Court first faced a Fifth Amendment equal protection
challenge to a federal racial classification, it adopted a similar
approach, with most unfortunate results. In Hirabayashiv.
United States, 320 U. S. 81 (1943), the Court considered a
curfew applicable only to persons of Japanese ancestry. The
Court observed-correctly-that "[d]istinctions between citizens solely because of their ancestry are by their very nature odious to a free people whose institutions are founded
upon the doctrine of equality," and that "racial discriminations are in most circumstances irrelevant and therefore prohibited." Id., at 100. But it also cited DetroitBank for the
proposition that the Fifth Amendment "restrains only such
discriminatory legislation by Congress as amounts to a denial of due process," 320 U. S., at 100, and upheld the curfew
because "circumstances within the knowledge of those
charged with the responsibility for maintaining the national
defense afforded a rational basis for the decision which they
made." Id., at 102.
Eighteen months later, the Court again approved wartime
measures directed at persons of Japanese ancestry. Korematsu v. United States, 323 U. S. 214 (1944), concerned an
order that completely excluded such persons from particular
areas. The Court did not address the view, expressed in
cases like Hirabayashiand Detroit Bank, that the Federal
Government's obligation to provide equal protection differs
significantly from that of the States. Instead, it began by
noting that "all legal restrictions which curtail the civil
rights of a single racial group are immediately suspect ...
[and] courts must subject them to the most rigid scrutiny."
323 U. S., at 216. That promising dictum might be read to
undermine the view that the Federal Government is under
a lesser obligation to avoid injurious racial classifications

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

than are the States. Cf. id., at 234-235 (Murphy, J., dissenting) ("[T]he order deprives all those within its scope of the
equal protection of the laws as guaranteed by the Fifth
Amendment"). But in spite of the "most rigid scrutiny"
standard it had just set forth, the Court then inexplicably
relied on "the principles we announced in the Hirabayashi
case," id., at 217, to conclude that, although "exclusion from
the area in which one's home is located is a far greater deprivation than constant confinement to the home from 8 p. m.
to 6 a. m.," id., at 218, the racially discriminatory order was
nonetheless within the Federal Government's power.*
In Bolling v. Sharpe, 347 U. S. 497 (1954), the Court for
the first time explicitly questioned the existence of any difference between the obligations of the Federal Government
and the States to avoid racial classifications. Bolling did
note that "[t]he 'equal protection of the laws' is a more explicit safeguard of prohibited unfairness than 'due process of
law,"' id., at 499. But Bolting then concluded that, "[i]n
view of [the] decision that the Constitution prohibits the
states from maintaining racially segregated public schools, it
would be unthinkable that the same Constitution would impose a lesser duty on the Federal Government." Id., at 500.
Bolling's facts concerned school desegregation, but its reasoning was not so limited. The Court's observations that
"[d]istinctions between citizens solely because of their ancestry are by their very nature odious," Hirabayashi,supra,
at 100, and that "all legal restrictions which curtail the
civil rights of a single racial group are immediately suspect,"
*Justices Roberts, Murphy, and Jackson filed vigorous dissents; Justice
Murphy argued that the challenged order "falls into the ugly abyss of
racism." Korematsu, 323 U. S., at 233. Congress has recently agreed
with the dissenters' position, and has attempted to make amends. See
Pub. L. 100-383, § 2(a), 102 Stat. 903 ("The Congress recognizes that...

a grave injustice was done to both citizens and permanent resident aliens
of Japanese ancestry by the evacuation, relocation, and internment of civilians during World War II").

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of the Court

Korematsu, supra, at 216, carry no less force in the context
of federal action than in the context of action by the Statesindeed, they first appeared in cases concerning action by the
Federal Government. Bolling relied on those observations,
347 U. S., at 499, n. 3, and reiterated "'that the Constitution
of the United States, in its present form, forbids, so far as
civil and political rights are concerned, discrimination by the
General Government, or by the States, against any citizen
because of his race,"' id., at 499 (quoting Gibson v. Mississippi, 162 U. S. 565, 591 (1896)) (emphasis added). The
Court's application of that general principle to the case before it, and the resulting imposition on the Federal Government of an obligation equivalent to that of the States, followed as a matter of course.
Later cases in contexts other than school desegregation
did not distinguish between the duties of the States and the
Federal Government to avoid racial classifications. Consider, for example, the following passage from McLaughlin
v. Florida,379 U. S. 184, a 1964 case that struck down a
race-based state law:
"[Wie deal here with a classification based upon the race
of the participants, which must be viewed in light of the
historical fact that the central purpose of the Fourteenth
Amendment was to eliminate racial discrimination emanating from official sources in the States. This strong
policy renders racial classifications 'constitutionally suspect,' Bolling v. Sharpe, 347 U. S. 497, 499; and subject
to the 'most rigid scrutiny,' Korematsu v. United States,
323 U. S. 214, 216; and 'in most circumstances irrelevant'
to any constitutionally acceptable legislative purpose,
Hirabayashiv. United States, 320 U. S. 81, 100." Id.,
at 191-192.
McLaughlin's reliance on cases involving federal action for
the standards applicable to a case involving state legislation

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

suggests thaf the Court understood the standards for federal
and state racial classifications to be the same.
Cases decided after McLaughlin continued to treat the
equal protection obligations imposed by the Fifth and the
Fourteenth Amendments as indistinguishable; one commentator observed that "[i]n case after case, fifth amendment
equal protection problems are discussed on the assumption
that fourteenth amendment precedents are controlling."
Karst, The Fifth Amendment's Guarantee of Equal Protection, 55 N. C. L. Rev. 541, 554 (1977). Loving v. Virginia,
388 U. S. 1 (1967), which struck down a race-based state law,
cited Korematsu for the proposition that "the Equal Protection Clause demands that racial classifications . . . be subjected to the 'most rigid scrutiny."' 388 U. S., at 11. The
various opinions in Frontiero v. Richardson, 411 U. S. 677
(1973), which concerned sex discrimination by the Federal
Government, took their equal protection standard of review
from Reed v. Reed, 404 U. S. 71 (1971), a case that invalidated
sex discrimination by a State, without mentioning any possibility of a difference between the standards applicable to
state and federal action. Frontiero,411 U. S., at 682-684
(plurality opinion of Brennan, J.); id., at 691 (Stewart, J., concurring in judgment); id., at 692 (Powell, J., concurring in
judgment). Thus, in 1975, the Court stated explicitly that
"[t]his Court's approach to Fifth Amendment equal protection claims has always been precisely the same as to
equal protection claims under the Fourteenth Amendment."
Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld, 420 U. S. 636, 688, n. 2; see also
Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1, 93 (1976) ("Equal protection
analysis in the Fifth Amendment area is the same as that
under the Fourteenth Amendment"); United States v. Paradise, 480 U. S. 149, 166, n. 16 (1987) (plurality opinion of
Brennan, J.) ("[T]he reach of the equal protection guarantee
of the Fifth Amendment is coextensive with that of the Fourteenth"). We do not understand a few contrary suggestions
appearing in cases in which we found special deference to

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of the Court

the political branches of the Federal Government to be appropriate, e. g., Hampton v. Mow Sun Wong, 426 U. S. 88,
100, 101-102, n. 21 (1976) (federal power over immigration),
to detract from this general rule.
B
Most of the cases discussed above involved classifications
burdening groups that have suffered discrimination in our
society. In 1978, the Court confronted the question whether
race-based governmental action designed to benefit such
groups should also be subject to "the most rigid scrutiny."
Regents of Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke, 438 U. S. 265, involved
an equal protection challenge to a state-run medical school's
practice of reserving a number of spaces in its entering class
for minority students. The petitioners argued that "strict
scrutiny" should apply only to "classifications that disadvantage 'discrete and insular minorities."' Id., at 287-288
(opinion of Powell, J.) (citing United States v. CaroleneProducts Co., 804 U. S. 144, 152, n. 4 (1938)). Bakke did not
produce an opinion for the Court, but Justice Powell's opinion announcing the Court's judgment rejected the argument.
In a passage joined by Justice White, Justice Powell wrote
that "[t]he guarantee of equal protection cannot mean one
thing when applied to one individual and something else
when applied to a person of another color." 438 U. S., at
289-290. He concluded that "[r]acial and ethnic distinctions
of any sort are inherently suspect and thus call for the most
exacting judicial examination." Id., at 291. On the other
hand, four Justices in Bakke would have applied a less stringent standard of review to racial classifications "designed to
further remedial purposes," see id., at 359 (Brennan, White,
Marshall, and Blackmun, JJ., concurring in judgment in part
and dissenting in part). And four Justices thought the case
should be decided on statutory grounds. Id., at 411-412,421
REHN(STEVENS, J., joined by Burger, C. J., and Stewart and

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
Opinion of the Court
QUIST,

JJ., concurring in judgment in part and dissenting in

part).
Two years after Bakke, the Court faced another challenge
to remedial race-based action, this time involving action
undertaken by the Federal Government. In Fullilove v.
Klutznick, 448 U. S. 448 (1980), the Court upheld Congress'
inclusion of a 10% set-aside for minority-owned businesses
in the Public Works Employment Act of 1977. As in Bakke,
there was no opinion for the Court. Chief Justice Burger,
in an opinion joined by Justices White and Powell, observed
that "[a]ny preference based on racial or ethnic criteria must
necessarily receive a most searching examination to make
sure that it does not conflict with constitutional guarantees."
448 U. S., at 491. That opinion, however, "d[id] not adopt,
either expressly or implicitly, the formulas of analysis articulated in such cases as [Bakke]." Id., at 492. It employed
instead a two-part test which asked, first, "whether the objectives of th[e] legislation are within the power of Congress," and second, "whether the limited use of racial and
ethnic criteria, in the context presented, is a constitutionally
permissible means for achieving the congressional objectives." Id., at 473. It then upheld the program under that
test, adding at the end of the opinion that the program also
"would survive judicial review under either 'test' articulated
in the several Bakke opinions." Id., at 492. Justice Powell
wrote separately to express his view that the plurality opinion had essentially applied "strict scrutiny" as described in
his Bakke opinion-i. e., it had determined that the set-aside
was "a necessary means of advancing a compelling governmental interest"-and had done so correctly. 448 U. S., at
496 (concurring opinion). Justice Stewart (joined by thenJUSTICE REHNQUIST) dissented, arguing that the Constitution required the Federal Government to meet the same
strict standard as the States when enacting racial classifications, id., at 523, and n. 1, and that the program before the
Court failed that standard. JUSTICE STEVENS also dis-

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of the Court

sented, arguing that "[r]acial classifications are simply too
pernicious to permit any but the most exact connection between justification and classification," id., at 537, and that
the program before the Court could not be characterized "as
a 'narrowly tailored' remedial measure." Id., at 541. Justice Marshall (joined by Justices Brennan and Blackmun)
concurred in the judgment, reiterating the view of four Justices in Bakke that any race-based governmental action designed to "remed[y] the present effects of past racial discrimination" should be upheld if it was "substantially related" to
the achievement of an "important governmental objective"i. e., such action should be subjected only to what we now
call "intermediate scrutiny." 448 U. S., at 518-519.
In Wygant v. Jackson Bd. of Ed., 476 U. S. 267 (1986), the
Court considered a Fourteenth Amendment challenge to another form of remedial racial classification. The issue in
Wygant was whether a school board could adopt race-based
preferences in determining which teachers to lay off. Justice Powell's plurality opinion observed that "the level of
scrutiny does not change merely because the challenged classification operates against a group that historically has not
been subject to governmental discrimination," id., at 273,
and stated the two-part inquiry as "whether the layoff provision is supported by a compelling state purpose and whether
the means chosen to accomplish that purpose are narrowly
tailored." Id., at 274. In other words, "racial classifications
of any sort must be subjected to 'strict scrutiny."' Id., at
285 (O'CONNOR, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment). The plurality then concluded that the school board's
interest in "providing minority role models for its minority
students, as an attempt to alleviate the effects of societal
discrimination," id., at 274, was not a compelling interest
that could justify the use of a racial classification. It added
that "[s]ocietal discrimination, without more, is too amorphous a basis for imposing a racially classified remedy," id.,
at 276, and insisted instead that "a public employer.., must

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

ensure that, before it embarks on an affirmative-action program, it has convincing evidence that remedial action is warranted. That is, it must have sufficient evidence to justify
the conclusion that there has been prior discrimination," id.,
at 277. Justice White concurred only in the judgment, although he agreed that the school board's asserted interests
could not, "singly or together, justify this racially discriminatory layoff policy." Id., at 295. Four Justices dissented,
three of whom again argued for intermediate scrutiny of remedial race-based government action. Id., at 301-302 (Marshall, J., joined by Brennan and Blackmun, JJ., dissenting).
The Court's failure to produce a majority opinion in Bakke,
Fullilove, and Wygant left unresolved the proper analysis
for remedial race-based governmental action. See United
States v. Paradise, 480 U. S., at 166 (plurality opinion of
Brennan, J.) ("[A]lthough this Court has consistently held
that some elevated level of scrutiny is required when a racial
or ethnic distinction is made for remedial purposes, it has
yet to reach consensus on the appropriate constitutional
analysis"); Sheet Metal Workers v. EEOC, 478 U. S. 421,
480 (1986) (plurality opinion of Brennan, J.). Lower courts
found this lack of guidance unsettling. See, e. g., Kromnick
v. School Dist. of Philadelphia,739 F. 2d 894, 901 (CA3 1984)
("The absence of an Opinion of the Court in either Bakke or
Fullilove and the concomitant failure of the Court to articulate an analytic framework supporting the judgments makes
the position of the lower federal courts considering the constitutionality of affirmative action programs somewhat vulnerable"), cert. denied, 469 U. S. 1107 (1985); Williams v.
New Orleans,729 F. 2d 1554, 1567 (CA5 1984) (en banc) (Higginbotham, J., concurring specially); South FloridaChapter
of Associated General Contractorsof America, Inc. v. MetropolitanDade County, Fla., 723 F. 2d 846, 851 (CAll), cert.
denied, 469 U. S.871 (1984).
The Court resolved the issue, at least in part, in 1989. Richmond v. J A. Croson Co., 488 U. S.469 (1989), concerned a

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of the Court

city's determination that 30% of its contracting work should
go to minority-owned businesses. A majority of the Court
in Crosonheld that "the standard of review under the Equal
Protection Clause is not dependent on the race of those burdened or benefited by a particular classification," and that
the single standard of review for racial classifications should
be "strict scrutiny." Id., at 493-494 (opinion of O'CONNOR,
J., joined by REHNQUIST, C. J., and White and KENNEDY, JJ.);
id., at 520 (SCALIA, J., concurring in judgment) ("I agree ...
with JUSTICE O'CONNOR's conclusion that strict scrutiny
must be applied to all governmental classification by race").
As to the classification before the Court, the plurality agreed
that "a state or local subdivision ... has the authority to
eradicate the effects of private discrimination within its own
legislative jurisdiction," id., at 491-492, but the Court
thought that the city had not acted with "a 'strong basis in
evidence for its conclusion that remedial action was necessary,"' id., at 500 (majority opinion) (quoting Wygant, supra,
at 277 (plurality opinion)). The Court also thought it "obvious that [the] program is not narrowly tailored to remedy
the effects of prior discrimination." 488 U. S., at 508.
With Croson, the Court finally agreed that the Fourteenth
Amendment requires strict scrutiny of all race-based action
by state and local governments. But Croson of course had
no occasion to declare what standard of review the Fifth
Amendment requires for such action taken by the Federal
Government. Croson observed simply that the Court's
"treatment of an exercise of congressional power in Fullilove cannot be dispositive here," because Croson's facts did
not implicate Congress' broad power under § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment. Id., at 491 (plurality opinion); see also
id., at 522 (SCALIA, J., concurring in judgment) ("[W]ithout
revisiting what we held in Fu'lilove ... , I do not believe
our decision in that case controls the one before us here").
On the other hand, the Court subsequently indicated that
Croson had at least some bearing on federal race-based ac-

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

tion when it vacated a decision upholding such action and
remanded for further consideration in light of Croson. H. K.
Porter Co. v. Metropolitan Dade County, 489 U. S. 1062
(1989); see also Shurberg Broadcasting of Hartford, Inc. v.
FCC,876 F. 2d 902, 915, n. 16 (CADC 1989) (opinion of Silberman, J.) (noting the Court's action in H. K. Porter Co.), rev'd
sub nom. Metro Broadcasting, Inc. v. FCC, 497 U. S. 547
(1990). Thus, some uncertainty persisted with respect to
the standard of review for federal racial classifications. See,
e. g., Mann v. Albany, 883 F. 2d 999, 1006 (CAll 1989) (Croson "may be applicable to race-based classifications imposed
by Congress"); Shurberg, 876 F. 2d, at 910 (noting the difficulty of extracting general principles from the Court's fractured opinions); id., at 959 (Wald, J., dissenting from denial
of rehearing en banc) ("Croson certainly did not resolve the
substantial questions posed by congressional programs
which mandate the use of racial preferences"); Winter Park
Communications, Inc. v. FCC, 873 F. 2d 347, 366 (CADC
1989) (Williams, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part)
("The unresolved ambiguity of Fullilove and Croson leaves
it impossible to reach a firm opinion as to the evidence of
discrimination needed to sustain a congressional mandate
of racial preferences"), aff'd sub nom. Metro Broadcasting,
supra.
Despite lingering uncertainty in the details, however, the
Court's cases through Croson had established three general
propositions with respect to governmental racial classifications. First, skepticism: "'Any preference based on racial
or ethnic criteria must necessarily receive a most searching
examination,"' Wygant, 476 U. S., at 273 (plurality opinion of
Powell, J.); Fullilove, 448 U. S., at 491 (opinion of Burger,
C. J.); see also id., at 523 (Stewart, J., dissenting) ("[A]ny
official action that treats a person differently on account of
his race or ethnic origin is inherently suspect"); McLaughlin,
379 U. S., at 192 ("[R]acial classifications [are] 'constitutionally suspect"); Hirabayashi,320 U. S., at 100 ("Distinctions

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of the Court

between citizens solely because of their ancestry are by their
very nature odious to a free people"). Second, consistency:
"[T]he standard of review under the Equal Protection Clause
is not dependent on the race of those burdened or benefited
by, a particular classification," Croson, 488 U. S., at 494 (plurality opinion); id., at 520 (SCALIA, J., concurring in judgment); see also Bakke, 438 U. S., at 289-290 (opinion of Powell, J.), i. e., all racial classifications reviewable under the
Equal Protection Clause must be strictly scrutinized. And
third, congruence: "Equal protection analysis in the Fifth
Amendment area is the same as that under the Fourteenth
Amendment," Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S., at 93; see also
Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld, 420 U. S., at 638, n. 2; Bolling v.
Sharpe, 347 U. S., at 500. Taken together, these three propositions lead to the conclusion that any person, of whatever
race, has the right to demand that any governmental actor
subject to the. Constitution justify any racial classification
subjecting that person to unequal treatment under the strictest judicial scrutiny. Justice Powell's defense of this conclusion bears repeating here:
"If it is the individual who is entitled to judicial protection against classifications based upon his racial or
ethnic background because such distinctions impinge
upon personal rights, rather than the individual only because of his membership in a particular group, then
constitutional standards may be applied consistently.
Political judgments regarding the necessity for the particular classification may be weighed in the constitutional balance, [Korematsu],but the standard of justification will remain constant. This is as it should be,
since those political judgments are the product of rough
compromise struck by contending groups within the
democratic process. When they touch upon an individual's race or ethnic background, he is entitled to a judicial determination that the burden he is asked to bear
on that basis is precisely tailored to serve a compelling

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)

Opinion of the Court

governmental interest. The Constitution guarantees
that right to every person regardless of his background.
Shelley v. Kraemer, 334 U. S. [1, 22 (1948)]." Bakke,
supra, at 299 (opinion of Powell, J.) (footnote omitted).
A year later, however, the Court took a surprising turn.
Metro Broadcasting,Inc. v. FCC, supra, involved a Fifth
Amendment challenge to two race-based policies of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). In Metro Broadcasting, the Court repudiated the long-held notion that "it
would be unthinkable that the same Constitution would impose a lesser duty on the Federal Government" than it does
on a State to afford equal protection of the laws, Bolling,
supra, at 500. It did so by holding that "benign" federal
racial classifications need only satisfy intermediate scrutiny,
even though Croson had recently concluded that such classifications enacted by a State must satisfy strict scrutiny.
"[B]enign" federal racial classifications, the Court said,
"-evenif those measures are not 'remedial' in the
sense of
being designed to compensate victims of past governmental
or societal discrimination-are constitutionally permissible
to the extent that they serve importantgovernmental objectives within the power of Congress and are substantially
related to achievement of those objectives." Metro Broadcasting, 497 U. S., at 564-565 (emphasis added). The Court
did not explain how to tell whether a racial classification
should be deemed "benign," other than to express "confiden[ce] that an 'examination of the legislative scheme and its
history' will separate benign measures from other types of
racial classifications." Id., at 564, n. 12 (citation omitted).
Applying this test, the Court first noted that the FCC policies at issue did not serve as a remedy for past discrimination. Id., at 566. Proceeding on the assumption that the
policies were nonetheless "benign," it concluded that they
served the "important governmental objective" of "enhancing broadcast diversity," id., at 566-567, and that they were

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of the Court

"substantially related" to that objective, id., at 569. It
therefore upheld the policies.
By adopting intermediate scrutiny as the standard of
review for congressionally mandated "benign" racial classifications, Metro Broadcasting departed from prior cases in
two significant respects. First, it turned its back on Croson's explanation of why strict scrutiny of all governmental
racial classifications is essential:
"Absent searching judicial inquiry into the justification for such race-based measures, there is simply no
way of determining what classifications are 'benign' or
'remedial' and what classifications are in fact motivated
by illegitimate notions of racial inferiority or simple racial politics. Indeed, the purpose of strict scrutiny is to
'smoke out' illegitimate uses of race by assuring that the
legislative body is pursuing a goal important enough to
warrant use of a highly suspect tool. The test also ensures that the means chosen 'fit' this compelling goal so
closely that there is little or no possibility that the motive for the classification was illegitimate racial prejudice or stereotype." Croson, supra, at 493 (plurality
opinion of O'CONNOR, J.).

We adhere to that view today, despite the surface appeal of
holding "benign" racial classifications to a lower standard,
because "it may not always be clear that a so-called preference is in fact benign," Bakke, supra, at 298 (opinion of Powell, J.). "[M]ore than good motives should be required when
government seeks to allocate its resources by way of an explicit racial classification system." Days, Fullilove, 96 Yale
L. J. 453, 485 (1987).
Second, Metro Broadcasting squarely rejected one of the
three propositions established by the Court's earlier equal
protection cases, namely, congruence between the standards
applicable to federal and state racial classifications, and in so
doing also undermined the other two-skepticism of all racial

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)

Opinion of the Court

classifications and consistency of treatment irrespective of
the race of the burdened or benefited group. See supra, at
223-224. Under Metro Broadcasting,certain racial classifications ("benign" ones enacted by the Federal Government)
should be treated less skeptically than others; and the race of
the benefited group is critical to the determination of which
standard of review to apply. Metro Broadcastingwas thus a
significant departure from much of what had come before it.
The three propositions undermined by Metro Broadcasting all derive from the basic principle that the Fifth and
Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution protect persons, not groups. It follows from that principle that all governmental action based on race-a group classification long
recognized as "in most circumstances irrelevant and therefore prohibited," Hirabayashi,320 U. S., at 100-should be
subjected to detailed judicial inquiry to ensure that the personal right to equal protection of the laws has not been infringed. These ideas have long been central to this Court's
understanding of equal protection, and holding "benign"
state and federal racial classifications to different standards
does not square with them. "[A] free people whose institutions are founded upon the doctrine of equality," ibid., should
tolerate no retreat from the principle that government may
treat people differently because of their race only for the
most compelling reasons. Accordingly, we hold today that
all racial classifications, imposed by whatever federal, state,
or local governmental actor, must be analyzed by a reviewing court under strict scrutiny. In other words, such classifications are constitutional only if they are narrowly tailored
measures that further compelling governmental interests.
To the extent that Metro Broadcasting is inconsistent with
that holding, it is overruled.
In dissent, JUSTICE STEVENS criticizes us for "deliver[ing]

a disconcerting lecture about the evils of governmental racial
classifications," post, at 242. With respect, we believe his
criticisms reflect a serious misunderstanding of our opinion.

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of the Court

concurs in our view that courts should
take a skeptical view of all governmental racial classifications. Ibid. He also allows that "[n]othing is inherently
difwrong with applying a single standard to fundamentally
difrelevant
ferent situations, as long as that standard takes
recto
fails
ferences into account." Post, at 246. What he
differences"
"relevant
take
does
ognize is that strict scrutiny
The
into account-indeed, that is its fundamental purpose.
govthe
by
point of carefully examining the interest asserted
evidence
ernment in support of a racial classification, and the
precisely
is
needed,
is
offered to show that the classification
of race in
to distinguish legitimate from illegitimate uses
And
226.
governmental decisionmaking. See supra, at
cases may be difficult
JUSTICE STEVENS concedes that "some
more reason, in our
the
to classify," post, at 245, and n. 4; all
Strict
view, to examine all racial classifications carefully.
as
scrutiny does not "trea[t] dissimilar race-based decisions
to the
though they were equally objectionable," post, at 245;
race-based
contrary, it evaluates carefully all governmental
objecdecisions in order to decide which are constitutionally
of
tionable and which are not. By requiring strict scrutiny
a
that
sure
make
racial classifications, we require courts to
seldom
governmental classification based on race, which "so
Fulliprovide[s] a relevant basis for disparate treatment,"
love, 448 U. S., at 534 (STEVENS, J., dissenting), is legitimate,
race to
before permitting unequal treatment based on
proceed.
JUSTICE STEVENS

JUSTICE STEVENS

chides us for our "supposed inability to

differentiate between 'invidious' and 'benign' discriminaundertion," because it is in his view sufficient that "people
bad."
and
intentions
good
stand the difference between
of
point
the
Post, at 245. But, as we have just explained,
and
strict scrutiny is to "differentiate between" permissible
impermissible governmental use of race. And JUSTICE
dissent in FullSTEVENS himself has already explained in his
ilove why "good intentions" alone are not enough to sustain

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)

Opinion of the Court

a supposedly "benign" racial classification: "[E]ven though it
is not the actual predicate for this legislation, a statute of
this kind inevitably is perceived by many as resting on an
assumption that those who are granted this special preference are less qualified in some respect that is identified
purely by their race. Because that perception-especially
when fostered by the Congress of the United States-can only
exacerbate rather than reduce racial prejudice, it will delay
the time when race will become a truly irrelevant, or at least
insignificant, factor. Unless Congress clearly articulates
the need and basis for a racial classification, and also tailors
the classification to its justification,the Court should not
uphold this kind of statute." Fullilove, 448 U. S., at 545
(dissenting opinion) (emphasis added; footnote omitted); see
also id., at 537 ("Racial classifications are simply too pernicious to permit any but the most exact connection between
justification and classification"); Croson, 488 U. S., at 516-517
(STEVENS, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) ("Although [the legislation at issue] stigmatizes the
disadvantaged class with the unproven charge of past racial
discrimination, it actually imposes a greater stigma on its
supposed beneficiaries"); supra, at 226; but cf. post, at 245246 (STEVENS, J., dissenting). These passages make a persuasive case for requiring strict scrutiny of congressional
racial classifications.
Perhaps it is not the standard of strict scrutiny itself, but
our use of the concepts of "consistency" and "congruence" in
conjunction with it, that leads JusTIcE STEVENS to dissent.
According to JUSTICE STEVENS, our view of consistency
"equate[s] remedial preferences with invidious discrimination," post, at 246, and ignores the difference between "an
engine of oppression" and an effort "to foster equality in
society," or, more colorfully, "between a 'No Trespassing'
sign and a welcome mat," post, at 243, 245. It does nothing
of the kind. The principle of consistency simply means that
whenever the government treats any person unequally be-

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of the Court

cause of his or her race, that person has suffered an injury
that falls squarely within the language and spirit of the Constitution's guarantee of equal protection. It says nothing
about the ultimate validity of any particular law; that determination is the job of the court applying strict scrutiny. The
principle of consistency explains the circumstances in which
the injury requiring strict scrutiny occurs. The application
of strict scrutiny, in turn, determines whether a compelling
governmental interest justifies the infliction of that injury.
Consistency does recognize that any individual suffers an
injury when he or she is disadvantaged by the government
because of his or her race, whatever that race may be. This
Court clearly stated that principle in Croson, see 488 U. S.,
at 493-494 (plurality opinion); id., at 520-521 (SCALIA, J.,
concurring in judgment); see also Shaw v. Reno, 509 U. S.
630, 643 (1993); Powers v. Ohio, 499 U. S. 400, 410 (1991).
JUSTICE STEVENS does not explain how his views square
with Croson, or with the long line of cases understanding
equal protection as a personal right.
JUSTICE STEVENS also claims that we have ignored any
difference between federal and state legislatures. But requiring that Congress, like the States, enact racial classifications only when doing so is necessary to further a "compelling interest" does not contravene any principle of
appropriate respect for a coequal branch of the Government.
It is true that various Members of this Court have taken
different views of the authority § 5 of the Fourteenth
Amendment confers upon Congress to deal with the problem
of racial discrimination, and the extent to which courts
should defer to Congress' exercise of that authority. See,
e. g., Metro Broadcasting,497 U. S., at 605-606 (O'CONNOR,
J., dissenting); Croson, 488 U. S., at 486-493 (opinion of
O'CONNOR, J., joined by REHNQUIST, C. J., and White, J.); id.,
at 518-519 (KENNEDY, J., concurring in part and concurring
in judgment); id., at 521-524 (SCALIA, J., concurring in judgment); Fullilove, 448 U. S., at 472-473 (opinion of Burger,

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

C. J.); id., at 500-502, and nn. 2-3, 515, and n. 14 (Powell, J.,
concurring); id., at 526-527 (Stewart, J., dissenting). We

need not, and do not, address these differences today. For
now, it is enough to observe that JUSTICE STEVENS' suggestion that any Member of this Court has repudiated in this
case his or her previously expressed views on the subject,
post, at 249-253, 256-257, is incorrect.
C
"Although adherence to precedent is not rigidly required
in constitutional cases, any departure from the doctrine of
stare decisis demands special justification." Arizona v.
Rumsey, 467 U. S. 203, 212 (1984). In deciding whether this
case presents such justification, we recall Justice Frankfurter's admonition that "stare decisis is a principle of policy and
not a mechanical formula of adherence to the latest decision,
however recent and questionable, when such adherence involves collision with a prior doctrine more embracing in its
scope, intrinsically sounder, and verified by experience."
Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U. S. 106, 119 (1940). Remaining
true to an "intrinsically sounder" doctrine established in
prior cases better serves the values of stare decisis than
would following a more recently decided case inconsistent
with the decisions that came before it; the latter course
would simply compound the recent error and would likely
make the unjustified break from previously established doctrine complete. In such a situation, "special justification"
exists to depart from the recently decided case.
As we have explained, Metro Broadcasting undermined
important principles of this Court's equal protection jurisprudence, established in a line of cases stretching back over
50 years, see supra, at 213-225. Those principles together
stood for an "embracing" and "intrinsically soun[d]" understanding of equal protection "verified by experience,"
namely, that the Constitution imposes upon federal, state,
and local governmental actors the same obligation to respect

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

the personal right to equal protection of the laws. This case
therefore presents precisely the situation described by Justice Frankfurter in Helvering: We cannot adhere to our most
recent decision without colliding with an accepted and established doctrine. We also note that Metro Broadcasting'sapplication of different standards of review to federal and state
racial classifications has been consistently criticized by commentators. See, e. g., Fried, Metro Broadcasting, Inc. v.
FCC: Two Concepts of Equality, 104 Harv. L. Rev. 107, 113117 (1990) (arguing that Metro Broadcasting's adoption of
different standards of review for federal and state racial classifications placed the law in an "unstable condition," and advocating strict scrutiny across the board); Comment, Metro
Broadcasting,Inc. v. FCC: Requiem for a Heavyweight, 69
Texas L. Rev. 125, 145-146 (1990) (same); Linder, Review of
Affirmative Action After Metro Broadcasting v. FCC: The
Solution Almost Nobody Wanted, 59 UMKC L. Rev. 293,297,
316-317 (1991) (criticizing "anomalous results as exemplified
by the two different standards of review"); Katz, Public Affirmative Action and the Fourteenth Amendment: The Fragmentation of Theory After Richmond v. J. A. Croson Co.
and Metro Broadcasting, Inc. v. Federal Communications
Commission, 17 T. Marshall L. Rev. 317, 319, 354-355, 357
(1992) (arguing that "the current fragmentation of doctrine
must be seen as a dangerous and seriously flawed approach
to constitutional interpretation," and advocating intermediate scrutiny across the board).
Our past practice in similar situations supports our action
today. In United States v. Dixon, 509 U. S. 688 (1993), we
overruled the recent case of Grady v. Corbin, 495 U. S.508
(1990), because Grady "lack[ed] constitutional roots" and was
"wholly inconsistent with earlier Supreme Court precedent."
Dixon, supra, at 704, 712. In Solorio v. United States, 483
U. S.435 (1987), we overruled O'Callahan v. Parker, 395
U. S.258 (1969), which had caused "confusion" and had rejected "an unbroken line of decisions from 1866 to 1960." So-

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

lorio, supra, at 439-441,450-451. And in Continental T V,
Inc. v. GTE Sylvania Inc., 433 U. S. 36 (1977), we overruled
United States v. Arnold, Schwinn & Co., 388 U. S. 365 (1967),
which was "an abrupt and largely unexplained departure"
from precedent, and of which "[t]he great weight of scholarly
opinion ha[d] been critical." Continental T V, supra,at 4748, 58. See also, e. g., Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 830
(1991) (overruling Booth v. Maryland, 482 U. S. 496 (1987),
and South Carolinav. Gathers,490 U. S. 805 (1989)); Monell
v. New York City Dept. of Social Servs., 436 U. S. 658, 695701 (1978) (partially overruling Monroe v. Pape, 365 U. S.
167 (1961), because Monroe was a "departure from prior
practice" that had not engendered substantial reliance);
Swift & Co. v. Wickham, 382 U. S. 111, 128-129 (1965) (overruling Kesler v. Department of Public Safety of Utah, 369
U. S. 153 (1962), to reaffirm "pre-Kesler precedent" and restore the law to the "view... which this Court has traditionally taken" in older cases).
It is worth pointing out the difference between the applications of stare decisis in this case and in Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pa. v. Casey, 505 U. S. 833 (1992).
Casey explained how considerations of stare decisis inform
the decision whether to overrule a long-established precedent that has become integrated into the fabric of the law.
Overruling precedent of that kind naturally may have consequences for "the ideal of the rule of law," id., at 854. In
addition, such precedent is likely to have engendered substantial reliance, as was true in Casey itself, id., at 856
("[F]or two decades of economic and social developments,
people have organized intimate relationships and made
choices that define their views of themselves and their places
in society, in reliance on the availability of abortion in the
event that contraception should fail"). But in this case, as
we have explained, we do not face a precedent of that kind,
because Metro Broadcasting itself departed from our prior
cases-and did so quite recently. By refusing to follow

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

Metro Broadcasting,then, we do not depart from the fabric
of the law; we restore it. We also note that reliance on a
case that has recently departed from precedent is likely to
be minimal, particularly where, as here, the rule set forth in
that case is unlikely to affect primary conduct in any event.
Cf. Allied-Bruce Terminix Cos. v. Dobson, 513 U. S. 265, 272
(1995) (declining to overrule Southland Corp. v. Keating,465
U. S. 1 (1984), where "private parties have likely written contracts relying upon Southland as authority" in the 10 years
since Southland was decided).
JUSTICE STEVENS takes us to task for what he perceives
to be an erroneous application of the doctrine of stare decisis.
But again, he misunderstands our position. We have acknowledged that, after Croson, "some uncertainty persisted
with respect to the standard of review for federal racial classifications," supra, at 223, and we therefore do not say that
we "merely restor[e] the status quo ante" today, post, at 257.
But as we have described supra, at 213-227, we think that
well-settled legal principles pointed toward a conclusion different from that reached in Metro Broadcasting, and we
therefore disagree with JUSTICE STEVENS that "the law at
the time of that decision was entirely open to the result the
Court reached," post, at 257. We also disagree with JusTICE STEVENS that Justice Stewart's dissenting opinion in
Fullilove supports his "novelty" argument, see post, at 258259, and n. 13. Justice Stewart said that "[u]nder our Constitution, any official action that treats a person differently
on account of his race or ethnic origin is inherently suspect
and presumptively invalid," and that "'[elqual protection
analysis in the Fifth Amendment area is the same as that
under the Fourteenth Amendment."' Fullilove, 448 U. S.,
at 523, and n. 1. He took the view that "[tihe hostility of
the Constitution to racial classifications by government has
been manifested in many cases decided by this Court," and
that "our cases have made clear that the Constitution is

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

wholly neutral in forbidding such racial discrimination, whatever the race may be of those who are its victims." Id., at
524. Justice Stewart gave no indication that he thought he
was addressing a "novel" proposition, post, at 259. Rather,
he relied on the fact that the text of the Fourteenth Amendment extends its guarantee to "persons," and on cases like
Buckley, Loving, McLaughlin, Bolling, Hirabayashi,and
Korematsu, see Fullilove, supra,at 524-526, as do we today.
There is nothing new about the notion that Congress, like
the States, may treat people differently because of their race
only for compelling reasons.
"The real problem," Justice Frankfurter explained, "is
whether a principle shall prevail over its later misapplications." Helvering,309 U. S., at 122. Metro Broadcasting's
untenable distinction between state and federal racial classifications lacks support in our precedent, and undermines the
fundamental principle of equal protection as a personal right.
In this case, as between that principle and "its later misapplications," the principle must prevail.
D
bur action today makes explicit what Justice Powell
thought implicit in the Fullilove lead opinion: Federal racial
classifications, like those of a State, must serve a compelling
governmental interest, and must be narrowly tailored to
further that interest. See Fullilove, 448 U. S., at 496 (concurring opinion). (Recall that the lead opinion in Fullilove
"d[id] not adopt .. .the formulas of analysis articulated
in such cases as [Bakke]." Id., at 492 (opinion of Burger,
C. J.).) Of course, it follows that to the extent (if any) that
Fullilove held federal racial classifications to be subject to a
less rigorous standard, it is no longer controlling. But we
need not decide today whether the program upheld in Fullilove would survive strict scrutiny as our more recent cases
have defined it.

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of the Court

Some have questioned the importance of debating the
proper standard of review of race-based legislation. See,
e. g., post, at 247 (STEVENS, J., dissenting); Croson, 488 U. S.,

at 514-515, and n. 5 (STEVENS, J., concurring in part and

concurring in judgment); cf. Metro Broadcasting, 497 U. S.,
at 610 (O'CONNOR, J., dissenting) ("This dispute regarding
the appropriate standard of review may strike some as a
lawyers' quibble over words"). But we agree with JUSTICE
STEVENS that, "[b]ecause racial characteristics so seldom
provide a relevant basis for disparate treatment, and because
classifications based on race are potentially so harmful to the
entire body politic, it is especially important that the reasons
for any such classification be clearly identified and unquestionably legitimate," and that "[r]acial classifications are
simply too pernicious to permit any but the most exact connection between justification and classification." Fullilove,
supra, at 533-535, 537 (dissenting opinion) (footnotes omitted). We think that requiring strict scrutiny is the best way
to ensure that courts will consistently give racial classifications that kind of detailed examination, both as to ends and
as to means. Korematsu demonstrates vividly that even
"the most rigid scrutiny" can sometimes fail to detect an
illegitimate racial classification, compare Korematsu, 323
U. S., at 223 ("To cast this case into outlines of racial prejudice, without reference to the real military dangers which
were presented, merely confuses the issue. Korematsu was
not excluded from the Military Area because of hostility to
him or his race"), with Pub. L. 100-383, § 2(a), 102 Stat. 903904 ("[T]hese actions [of relocating and interning civilians of
Japanese ancestry] were carried out without adequate security reasons.., and were motivated largely by racial prejudice, wartime hysteria, and a failure of political leadership").
Any retreat from the most searching judicial inquiry can only
increase the risk of another such error occurring in the
future.

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

Finally, we wish to dispel the notion that strict scrutiny is
"strict in theory, but fatal in fact." Fullilove, supra,at 519
(Marshall, J., concurring in judgment). The unhappy persistence of both the practice and the lingering effects of racial
discrimination against minority groups in this country is an
unfortunate reality, and government is not disqualified from
acting in response to it. As recently as 1987, for example,
every Justice of this Court agreed that the Alabama Department of Public Safety's "pervasive, systematic, and obstinate
discriminatory conduct" justified a narrowly tailored racebased remedy. See United States v. Paradise,480 U. S., at
167 (plurality opinion of Brennan, J.); id., at 190 (STEVENS,
J., concurring in judgment); id., at 196 (O'CONNOR, J., dissenting). When race-based action is necessary to further a compelling interest, such action is within constitutional constraints if it satisfies the "narrow tailoring" test this Court
has set out in previous cases.
IV
Because our decision today alters the playing field in some
important respects, we think it best to remand the case to
the lower courts for further consideration in light of the principles we have announced. The Court of Appeals, following
Metro Broadcasting and Fullilove, analyzed the case in
terms of intermediate scrutiny. It upheld the challenged
statutes and regulations because it found them to be "narrowly tailored to achieve [their] significant governmental
purpose of providing subcontracting opportunities for small
disadvantaged business enterprises." 16 F. 3d, at 1547 (emphasis added). The Court of Appeals did not decide the
question whether the interests served by the use of subcontractor compensation clauses are properly described as "compelling." It also did not address the question of narrow tailoring in terms of our strict scrutiny cases, by asking, for
example, whether there was "any consideration of the use of

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of the Court

race-neutral means to increase minority business participation" in government contracting, Croson, supra, at 507, or
whether the program was appropriately limited such that
it "will not last longer than the discriminatory effects it is
designed to eliminate," Fullilove, supra, at 513 (Powell, J.,
concurring).
Moreover, unresolved questions remain concerning the
details of the complex regulatory regimes implicated by the
use of subcontractor compensation clauses. For example,
the SBA's 8(a) program requires an individualized inquiry
into the economic disadvantage of every participant, see 13
CFR § 124.106(a) (1994), whereas the DOT's regulations
implementing STURAA § 106(c) do not require certifying
authorities to make such individualized inquiries, see 49
CFR § 23.62 (1994); 49 CFR pt. 23, subpt. D, App. C (1994).
And the regulations seem unclear as to whether 8(d) subcontractors must make individualized showings, or instead
whether the race-based presumption applies both to social
and economic disadvantage, compare 13 CFR § 124.106(b)
(1994) (apparently requiring 8(d) participants to make an
individualized showing), with 48 CFR § 19.703(a)(2) (1994)
(apparently allowing 8(d) subcontractors to invoke the racebased presumption for social and economic disadvantage).
See generally Part I, supra. We also note an apparent discrepancy between the definitions of which socially disadvantaged individuals qualify as economically disadvantaged for
the 8(a) and 8(d) programs; the former requires a showing
that such individuals' ability to compete has been impaired
"as compared to others in the same or similar line of business
who are not socially disadvantaged," 13 CFR § 124.106(a)
(1)(i) (1994) (emphasis added), while the latter requires that
showing only "as compared to others in the same or similar
line of business," § 124.106(b)(1). The question whether any
of the ways in which the Government uses subcontractor
compensation clauses can survive strict scrutiny, and any
relevance distinctions such as these may have to that ques-

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
Opinion of ScAmIA, J.

tion, should be addressed in the first instance by the lower
courts.
Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
vacated, and the case is remanded for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE SCALIA,

concurring in part and concurring in the

judgment.
I join the opinion of the Court, except Part III-C, and
except insofar as it may be inconsistent with the following:
In my view, government can never have a "compelling interest" in discriminating on the basis of race in order to "make
up" for past racial discrimination in the opposite direction.
See Richmond v. J A Croson Co., 488 U. S. 469, 520 (1989)
(SCALIA, J., concurring in judgment). Individuals who have
been wronged by unlawful racial discrimination should be
made whole; but under our Constitution there can be no such
thing as either a creditor or a debtor race. That concept is
alien to the Constitution's focus upon the individual, see
Amdt. 14, § 1 ("[N]or shall any State... deny to any person"
the equal protection of the laws) (emphasis added), and its
rejection of dispositions based on race, see Amdt. 15, § 1 (prohibiting abridgment of the right to vote "on account of race"),
or based on blood, see Art. III, § 3 ("[N]o Attainder of Treason shall work Corruption of Blood"); Art. I, §9, cl. 8 ("No
Title of Nobility shall be granted by the United States"). To
pursue the concept of racial entitlement-even for the most
admirable and benign of purposes-is to reinforce and preserve for future mischief the way of thinking that produced
race slavery, race privilege and race hatred. In the eyes of
government, we are just one race here. It is American.
It is unlikely, if not impossible, that the challenged program would survive under this understanding of strict
scrutiny, but I am content to leave that to be decided on
remand.

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
Opinion of THOMAS, J.

JUSTICE THOMAS,

concurring in part and concurring in

the judgment.
I agree with the majority's conclusion that strict scrutiny
applies to all government classifications based on race. I
write separately, however, to express my disagreement with
the premise underlying JUSTICE STEVENS' and JUSTICE
GINSBURG'S dissents: that there is a racial paternalism exception to the principle of equal protection. I believe that
there is a "moral [and] constitutional equivalence," post, at
243 (STEVENS, J., dissenting), between laws designed to subjugate a race and those that distribute benefits on the basis
of race in order to foster some current notion of equality.
Government cannot make us equal; it can only recognize, respect, and protect us as equal before the law.
That these programs may have been motivated, in part,
by good intentions cannot provide refuge from the principle
that under our Constitution, the government may not make
distinctions on the basis of race. As far as the Constitution
is concerned, it is irrelevant whether a government's racial
classifications are drawn by those who wish to oppress a race
or by those who have a sincere desire to help those thought
to be disadvantaged. There can be no doubt that the paternalism that appears to lie at the heart of this program is at
war with the principle of inherent equality that underlies
and infuses our Constitution. See Declaration of Independence ("We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men
are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator
with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life,
Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness").
These programs not only raise grave constitutional questions, they also undermine the moral basis of the equal protection principle. Purchased at the price of immeasurable
human suffering, the equal protection principle reflects our
Nation's understanding that such classifications ultimately
have a destructive impact on the individual and our society.
Unquestionably, "[i]nvidious [racial] discrimination is an en-

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)

Opinion of THOmAS, J.

gine of oppression," post, at 243 (STEVENS, J., dissenting).
It is also true that "[r]emedial" racial preferences may reflect
"a desire to foster equality in society," ibid. But there can
be no doubt that racial paternalism and its unintended consequences can be as poisonous and pernicious as any other
form of discrimination. So-called "benign" discrimination
teaches many that because of chronic and apparently immutable handicaps, minorities cannot compete with them without their patronizing indulgence. Inevitably, such programs
engender attitudes of superiority or, alternatively, provoke
resentment among those who believe that they have been
wronged by the government's use of race. These programs
stamp minorities with a badge of inferiority and may cause
them to develop dependencies or to adopt an attitude that
they are "entitled" to preferences. Indeed, JUSTICE STEVENS once recognized the real harms stemming from seemingly "benign" discrimination. See Fullilove v. Klutznick,
448 U. S. 448, 545 (1980) (STEVENS, J., dissenting) (noting
that "remedial" race legislation "is perceived by many as
resting on an assumption that those who are granted this
special preference are less qualified in some respect that is
identified purely by their race").
In my mind, government-sponsored racial discrimination
based on benign prejudice is just as noxious as discrimination inspired by malicious prejudice.* In each instance, it is
racial discrimination, plain and simple.
*It should be obvious that every racial classification helps, in a narrow
sense, some races and hurts others. As to the races benefited, the classification could surely be called "benign." Accordingly, whether a law relying upon racial taxonomy is "benign" or "malign," post, at 275 (GINSBURG,
J., dissenting); see also post, at 247 (STEVENS, J., dissenting) (addressing
differences between "invidious" and "benign" discrimination), either turns
on "'whose ox is gored,"' Regents of Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke, 438 U. S. 265,
295, n. 35 (1978) (Powell, J.) (quoting, A. Bickel, The Morality of Consent
133 (1975)), or on distinctions found only in the eye of the beholder.

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
STEVENS,

JUSTICE STEVENS,

J., dissenting

with whom JUSTICE GINSBURG joins,

dissenting.
Instead of deciding this case in accordance with controlling
precedent, the Court today delivers a disconcerting lecture
about the evils of governmental racial classifications. For
its text the Court has selected three propositions, represented by the bywords "skepticism," "consistency," and "congruence." See ante, at 223-224. I shall comment on each
of these propositions, then add a few words about stare decisis, and finally explain why I believe this Court has a duty
to affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.

I
The Court's concept of skepticism is, at least in principle,
a good statement of law and of common sense. Undoubtedly, a court should be wary of a governmental decision that
relies upon a racial classification. "Because racial characteristics so seldom provide a relevant basis for disparate treatment, and because classifications based on race are potentially so harmful to the entire body politic," a reviewing
court must satisfy itself that the reasons for any such classification are "clearly identified and unquestionably legitimate." Fullilove v. Klutznick, 448 U. S. 448, 533-535 (1980)
(STEVENS, J., dissenting). This principle is explicit in Chief
Justice Burger's opinion, id., at 480; in Justice Powells concurrence, id., at 496; and in my dissent in Futtilove, id., at
533-534. I welcome its renewed endorsement by the Court
today. But, as the opinions in Fullilove demonstrate, substantial agreement on the standard to be applied in deciding
difficult cases does not necessarily lead to agreement on how
those cases actually should or will be resolved. In my judgment, because uniform standards are often anything but uniform, we should evaluate the Court's comments on "consistency," "congruence," and stare decisis with the same type of
skepticism that the Court advocates for the underlying issue.

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

II
The Court's concept of "consistency" assumes that there is
no significant difference between a decision by the majority
to impose a special burden on the members of a minority
race and a decision by the majority to provide a benefit to
certain members of that minority notwithstanding its incidental burden on some members of the majority. In my
opinion that assumption is untenable. There is no moral or
constitutional equivalence between a policy that is designed
to perpetuate a caste system and one that seeks to eradicate
racial subordination. Invidious discrimination is an engine
of oppression, subjugating a disfavored group to enhance or
maintain the power of the majority. Remedial race-based
preferences reflect the opposite impulse: a desire to foster
equality in society. No sensible conception of the Govern-

ment's constitutional obligation to "govern impartially,"
Hampton v. Mow Sun Wong, 426 U. S. 88, 100 (1976), should

ignore this distinction.'
1

As JusIcE GINSBURG observes, post, at 275-276, the majority's "flexible" approach to "strict scrutiny" may well take into account differences
between benign and invidious programs. The majority specifically notes
that strict scrutiny can accommodate "'relevant differences,"' ante, at 228;
surely the intent of a government actor and the effects of a program are
relevant to its constitutionality. See Missouri v. Jenkins, ante, at 112
(O'CONNOR, J., concurring) ("[T]ime and again, we have recognized the
It is
ample authority legislatures possess to combat racial injustice ....
only by applying strict scrutiny that we can distinguish between unconstitutional discrimination and narrowly tailored remedial programs that legislatures may enact to further the compelling governmental interest in
redressing the effects of past discrimination").
Even if this is so, however, I think it is unfortunate that the majority
insists on applying the label "strict scrutiny" to benign race-based programs. That label has usually been understood to spell the death of any
governmental action to which a court may apply it. The Court suggests
today that "strict scrutiny" means something different-something less
strict-when applied to benign racial classifications. Although I agree
that benign programs deserve different treatment than invidious programs, there is a danger that the fatal language of "strict scrutiny" will

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
STEVENS, J., dissenting

To illustrate the point, consider our cases addressing
the Federal Government's discrimination against JapaneseAmericans during World War II, Hirabayashi v. United
States, 320 U. S. 81 (1943), and Korematsu v. United States,
323 U. S. 214 (1944). The discrimination at issue in those
cases was invidious because the Government imposed special
burdens-a curfew and exclusion from certain areas on the
West Coast 2-on the members of a minority class defined
by racial and ethnic characteristics. Members of the same
racially defined class exhibited exceptional heroism in the
service of our country during that war. Now suppose Congress decided to reward that service with a federal program
that gave all Japanese-American veterans an extraordinary
preference in Government employment. Cf. Personnel
Administrator of Mass. v. Feeney, 442 U. S. 256 (1979). If
Congress had done so, the same racial characteristics that
motivated the discriminatory burdens in Hirabayashi and
Korematsu would have defined the preferred class of veterans. Nevertheless, "consistency" surely would not require
us to describe the incidental burden on everyone else in the
country as "odious" or "invidious" as those terms were used
in those cases. We should reject a concept of "consistency"
that would view the special preferences that the National
18343
Government has provided to Native Americans since
skew the analysis and place well-crafted benign programs at unnecessary
risk.
2These were, of course, neither the sole nor the most shameful burdens
the Government imposed on Japanese-Americans during that War. They
were, however, the only such burdens this Court had occasion to address
in Hirabayashiand Korematsu. See Korematsu, 323 U. S., at 223 ("Regardless of the true nature of the assembly and relocation centers.., we
are dealing specifically with nothing but an exclusion order").
3See Morton v. Mancari, 417 U. S. 535, 541 (1974). To be eligible for
the preference in 1974, an individual had to "'be one fourth or more degree
Indian blood and be a member of a Federally-recognized tribe."' Id., at
553, n. 24, quoting 44 BIAM 335, 3.1 (1972). We concluded that the classi-

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
STEVENS, J., dissenting

as comparable to the official discrimination against AfricanAmericans that was prevalent for much of our history.
The consistency that the Court espouses would disregard
the difference between a "No Trespassing" sign and a welcome mat. It would treat a Dixiecrat Senator's decision to
vote against Thurgood Marshall's confirmation in order to
keep African-Americans off the Supreme Court as on a par
with President Johnson's evaluation of his nominee's race as
a positive factor. It would equate a law that made black
citizens ineligible for military service with a program aimed
at recruiting black soldiers. An attempt by the majority to
exclude members of a minority race from a regulated market
is fundamentally different from a subsidy that enables a relatively small group of newcomers to enter that market. An
interest in "consistency" does not justify treating differences
as though they were similarities.
The Court's explanation for treating dissimilar race-based
decisions as though they were equally objectionable is a
supposed inability to differentiate between "invidious" and
"benign" discrimination. Ante, at 225-226. But the term
"affirmative action" is common and well understood. Its
presence in everyday parlance shows that people understand
the. difference between good intentions and bad. As with
any legal concept, some cases may be difficult to classify,4 but
our equal protection jurisprudence has identified a critical
difference between state action that imposes burdens on a
fication was not "racial" because it did not encompass all Native Americans. 417 U. S., at 553-554. In upholding it, we relied in part on the
plenary power of Congress to legislate on behalf of Indian tribes. Id., at
551-552. In this case respondents rely, in part, on the fact that not all
members of the preferred minority groups are eligible for the preference,
and on the special power to legislate on behalf of minorities granted to
Congress by §5 of the Fourteenth Amendment.
4For example, in Richmond v. J A Croson Co., 488 U. S. 469 (1989), a
majority of the members of the city council that enacted the race-based
set-aside were of the same race as its beneficiaries.

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

disfavored few and state action that benefits the few "in spite
of" its adverse effects on the many. Feeney, 442 U. S., at
279.
Indeed, our jurisprudence has made the standard to be
applied in cases of invidious discrimination turn on whether
the discrimination is "intentional," or whether, by contrast,
it merely has a discriminatory "effect." Washington v.
Davis, 426 U. S. 229 (1976). Surely this distinction is at
least as subtle, and at least as difficult to apply, see id., at
253-254 (concurring opinion), as the usually obvious distinction between a measure intended to benefit members of a
particular minority race and a measure intended to burden
a minority race. A state actor inclined to subvert the Constitution might easily hide bad intentions in the guise of unintended "effects"; but I should think it far more difficult to
enact a law intending to preserve the majority's hegemony
while casting it plausibly in the guise of affirmative action
for minorities.
Nothing is inherently wrong with applying a single standard to fundamentally different situations, as long as that
standard takes relevant differences into account. For example, if the Court in all equal protection cases were to insist
that differential treatment be justified by relevant characteristics of the members of the favored and disfavored classes
that provide a legitimate basis for disparate treatment, such
a standard would treat dissimilar cases differently while still
recognizing that there is, after all, only one Equal Protection
Clause. See Cleburne v. Cleburne Living Center, Inc., 473
U. S. 432, 451-455 (1985) (STEVENS, J., concurring); San Antonio Independent School Dist.v. Rodriguez, 411 U. S. 1, 98110 (1973) (Marshall, J., dissenting). Under such a standard,
subsidies for disadvantaged businesses may be constitutional
though special taxes on such businesses would be invalid.
But a single standard that purports to equate remedial preferences with invidious discrimination cannot be defended in
the name of "equal protection."

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

Moreover, the Court may find that its new "consistency"
approach to race-based classifications is difficult to square
with its insistence upon rigidly separate categories for discrimination against different classes of individuals. For
example, as the law currently stands, the Court will apply
"intermediate scrutiny" to cases of invidious gender discrimination and "strict scrutiny" to cases of invidious race
discrimination, while applying the same standard for benign
classifications as for invidious ones. If this remains the
law, then today's lecture about "consistency" will produce
the anomalous result that the Government can more easily
enact affirmative-action programs to remedy discrimination
against women than it can enact affirmative-action programs
to remedy discrimination against African-Americans-even
though the primary purpose of the Equal Protection Clause
was to end discrimination against the former slaves. See
Associated General Contractors of Cal., Inc. v. San Francisco, 813 F. 2d 922 (CA9 1987) (striking down racial preference under strict scrutiny while upholding gender preference
under intermediate scrutiny). When a court becomes preoccupied with abstract standards, it risks sacrificing common
sense at the altar of formal consistency.
As a matter of constitutional and democratic principle, a
decision by representatives of the majority to discriminate
against the members of a minority race is fundamentally different from those same representatives' decision to impose
incidental costs on the majority of their constituents in order
to provide a benefit to a disadvantaged minority.
Indeed,
"Inhis concurrence, JUSTICE THOA~s argues that the most significant
cost associated with an affirmative-action program is its adverse stigmatic
effect on its intended beneficiaries. Ante, at 240-241. Although I agree
that this cost may be more significant than many people realize, see Fullilove v. Klutznick, 448 U. S. 448, 545 (1980) (STEVENS, J., dissenting), I do
not think it applies to the facts of this case. First, this is not an argument
that petitioner Adarand, a white-owned business, has standing to advance.
No beneficiaries of the specific program under attack today have challenged its constitutionality-perhaps because they do not find the prefer-

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
STEVENS, J., dissenting

as I have previously argued, the former is virtually always
repugnant to the principles of a free and democratic society,
whereas the latter is, in some circumstances, entirely consistent with the ideal of equality. Wygant v. Jackson Bd. of
6
Ed., 476 U. S. 267, 316-317 (1986) (STEVENS, J., dissenting).
ences stigmatizing, or perhaps because their ability to opt out of the program provides them all the relief they would need. Second, even if the
petitioner in this case were a minority-owned business challenging the
stigmatizing effect of this program, I would not find JUSTICE THOMAS'
extreme proposition-that there is a moral and constitutional equivalence
between an attempt to subjugate and an attempt to redress the effects of
a caste system, ante, at 240-at all persuasive. It is one thing to question
the wisdom of affirmative-action programs: There are many responsible
arguments against them, including the one based upon stigma, that Congress might find persuasive when it decides whether to enact or retain
race-based preferences. It is another thing altogether to equate the
many well-meaning and intelligent lawmakers and their constituentswhether members of majority or minority races-who have supported
affirmative action over the years, to segregationists and bigots.
Finally, although JUSTICE THOMAS is more concerned about the potential effects of these programs than the intent of those who enacted them
(a proposition at odds with this Court's jurisprudence, see Washington v.
Davis, 426 U. S. 229 (1976), but not without a strong element of common
sense, see id., at 252-256 (STEVENS, J., concurring); id., at 256-270 (Brennan, J., dissenting)), I am not persuaded that the psychological damage
brought on by affirmative action is as severe as that engendered by racial
subordination. That, in any event, is a judgment the political branches
can be trusted to make. In enacting affirmative-action programs, a legislature intends to remove obstacles that have unfairly placed individuals of
equal qualifications at a competitive disadvantage. See Fullilove, 448
U. S., at 521 (Marshall, J., concurring in judgment). I do not believe such
action, whether wise or unwise, deserves such an invidious label as "racial
paternalism," ante, at 240 (opinion of THOMAS, J.). If the legislature is
persuaded that its program is doing more harm than good to the individuals it is designed to benefit, then we can expect the legislature to remedy
the problem. Significantly, this is not true of a government action based
on invidious discrimination.
6 As I noted in Wygant:
"There is ... a critical difference between a decision to exclude a member of a minority race because of his or her skin color and a decision

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

By insisting on a doctrinaire notion of "consistency" in the
standard applicable to all race-based governmental actions,
the Court obscures this essential dichotomy.
III
The Court's concept of "congruence" assumes that there is
no significant difference between a decision by the Congress
of the United States to adopt an affirmative-action program
and such a decision by a State or a municipality. In my
opinion that assumption is untenable. It ignores important
practical and legal differences between federal and state or
local decisionmakers.
These differences have been identified repeatedly and consistently both in opinions of the Court and in separate opinions authored by Members of today's majority. Thus, in
Metro Broadcasting,Inc. v. FCC, 497 U. S. 547 (1990), in
which we upheld a federal program designed to foster racial
diversity in broadcasting, we identified the special "instituto include more members of the minority in a school faculty for that
reason.
"The exclusionary decision rests on the false premise that differences in
race, or in the color of a person's skin, reflect real differences that are
relevant to a person's right to share in the blessings of a free society. As
noted, that premise is 'utterly irrational,' Cleburne v. Cleburne Living
Center,473 U. S. 432, 452 (1985), and repugnant to the principles of a free
and democratic society. Nevertheless, the fact that persons of different
races do, indeed have differently colored skin, may give rise to a belief
that there is some significant difference between such persons. The inclusion of minority teachers in the educational process inevitably tends to
dispel that illusion whereas their exclusion could only tend to foster it.
The inclusionary decision is consistent with the principle that all men are
created equal; the exclusionary decision is at war with that principle. One
decision accords with the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment; the other does not. Thus, consideration of whether the consciousness of race is exclusionary or inclusionary plainly distinguishes the
Board's valid purpose in this case from a race-conscious decision that
would reinforce assumptions of inequality." 476 U. S., at 316-317 (dissenting opinion).

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

tional competence" of our National Legislature. Id., at 563.
"It is of overriding significance in these cases," we were
careful to emphasize, "that the FCC's minority ownership
programs have been specifically approved-indeed, mandated-by Congress." Ibid. We recalled the several opinions in Fullilove that admonished this Court to "'approach
our task with appropriate deference to the Congress, a coequal branch charged by the Constitution with the power to
"provide for the ... general Welfare of the United States"
and "to enforce, by appropriate legislation," the equal protection guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment.' [Fullilove, 448 U. S.], at 472; see also id., at 491; id., at 510, and
515-516, n. 14 (Powell, J., concurring); id., at 517-520 (MARSHALL, J., concurring in judgment)." 497 U. S., at 563. We
recalled that the opinions of Chief Justice Burger and Justice
Powell in Fullilove had "explained that deference was appropriate in light of Congress' institutional competence as
the National Legislature, as well as Congress' powers under
the Commerce Clause, the Spending Clause, and the Civil
War Amendments." 497 U. S., at 563 (citations and footnote omitted).
The majority in Metro Broadcasting and the plurality in
Fullilove were not alone in relying upon a critical distinction
between federal and state programs. In his separate opinion in Richmond v. J. A. Croson Co., 488 U. S. 469, 520-524
(1989), JUSTICE SCALIA discussed the basis for this distinction. He observed that "it is one thing to permit racially
based conduct by the Federal Government-whose legislative powers concerning matters of race were explicitly enhanced by the Fourteenth Amendment, see U. S. Const.,
Amdt. 14, § 5-and quite another to permit it by the precise
entities against whose conduct in matters of race that
Amendment was specifically directed, see Amdt. 14, § 1."
Id., at 521-522. Continuing, JUSTICE SCALIA explained why
a "sound distinction between federal and state (or local) action based on race rests not only upon the substance of the

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
STEVENS, J., dissenting

Civil War Amendments, but upon social reality and governmental theory." Id., at 522.
"What the record shows, in other words, is that racial
discrimination against any group finds a more ready expression at the state and local than at the federal level.
To the children of the Founding Fathers, this should
come as no surprise. An acute awareness of the heightened danger of oppression from political factions
in small, rather than large, political units dates to the
very beginning of our national history. See G. Wood,
The Creation of the American Republic, 1776-1787,
pp. 499-506 (1969). As James Madison observed in
support of the proposed Constitution's enhancement of
national powers:
"'The smaller the society, the fewer probably will be the
distinct parties and interests composing it; the fewer the
distinct parties and interests, the more frequently will
a majority be found of the same party; and the smaller
the number of individuals composing a majority, and the
smaller the compass within which they are placed, the
more easily will they concert and execute their plan of
oppression. Extend the sphere and you take in a
greater variety of parties and interests; you make it less
probable that a majority of the whole will have a common motive-to invade the rights of other citizens; or if
such a common motive exists, it will be more difficult for
all who feel it to discover their own strength and to act
in unison with each other.' The Federalist No. 10,
pp. 82-84 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961)." Id., at 523 (opinion
concurring in judgment).
In her plurality opinion in Croson,JUSTICE O'CONNOR also
emphasized the importance of this distinction when she responded to the city's argument that Fullilove was controlling. She wrote:

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
STEVENS, J., dissenting

"What appellant ignores is that Congress, unlike any
State or political subdivision, has a specific constitutional mandate to enforce the dictates of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The power to 'enforce' may at times also
include the power to define situations which Congress
determines threaten principles of equality and to adopt
prophylactic rules to deal with those situations. The
Civil War Amendments themselves worked a dramatic
change in the balance between congressional and state
power over matters of race." 488 U. S., at 490 (joined
by REHNQUIST, C. J., and White, J.) (citations omitted).
An additional reason for giving greater deference to the
National Legislature than to a local lawmaking body is that
federal affirmative-action programs represent the will of our
entire Nation's elected representatives, whereas a state or
local program may have an impact on nonresident entities
who played no part in the decision to enact it. Thus, in the
state or local context, individuals who were unable to vote
for the local representatives who enacted a race-conscious
program may nonetheless feel the effects of that program.
This difference recalls the goals of the Commerce Clause,
U. S. Const., Art. I, §8, cl. 3, which permits Congress to legislate on certain matters of national importance while denying power to the States in this area for fear of undue impact
upon out-of-state residents. See Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona ex rel. Sullivan, 325 U. S. 761, 767-768, n. 2 (1945)
("[T]o the extent that the burden of state regulation falls on
interests outside the state, it is unlikely to be alleviated by
the operation of those political restraints normally exerted
when interests within the state are affected").
Ironically, after all of the time, effort, and paper this Court
has expended in differentiating between federal and state
affirmative action, the majority today virtually ignores the
issue. See ante, at 230-231. It provides not a word of direct explanation for its sudden and enormous departure from

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
STEVENS, J., dissenting

the reasoning in past cases. Such silence, however, cannot
erase the difference between Congress' institutional competence and constitutional authority to overcome historic racial
subjugation and the States' lesser power to do so.
Presumably, the majority is now satisfied that its theory
of "congruence" between the substantive rights provided by
the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments disposes of the objection based upon divided constitutional powers. But it is one
thing to say (as no one seems to dispute) that the Fifth
Amendment encompasses a general guarantee of equal protection as broad as that contained within the Fourteenth
Amendment. It is another thing entirely to say that Congress' institutional competence and constitutional authority
entitles it to no greater deference when it enacts a program
designed to foster equality than the deference due a state
legislature.7 The latter is an extraordinary proposition; and,
as the foregoing discussion demonstrates, our precedents
have rejected it explicitly and repeatedly."
7

Despite the majority's reliance on Korematsu v. United States, 323
U. S. 214 (1944), ante, at 214-215, that case does not stand for the proposition that federal remedial programs are subject to strict scrutiny. Instead, Korematsu specifies that "all legal restrictions which curtail the
civil rights of a single racialgroup are immediately suspect." 323 U. S.,
at 216, quoted ante, at 214 (emphasis added). The programs at issue in
this case (as in most affirmative-action cases) do not "curtail the civil
rights of a single racial group"; they benefit certain racial groups and impose an indirect burden on the majority.
"We have rejected this proposition outside of the affirmative-action context as well. In Hampton v. Mow Sun Wong, 426 U. S. 88, 100 (1976),
we held:
"The federal sovereign, like the States, must govern impartially. The
concept of equal justice under law is served by the Fifth Amendments
guarantee of due process, as well as by the Equal Protection Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Although both Amendments require the same
type of analysis, see Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S.1, 93 [(1976)], the Court
of Appeals correctly stated that the two protections are not always coextensive. Not only does the language of the two Amendments differ, but
more importantly, there may be overriding national interests which justify

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
STEVENS, J., dissenting

Our opinion in Metro Broadcastingrelied on several constitutional provisions to justify the greater deference we owe
to Congress when it acts with respect to private individuals.
497 U. S., at 563. In the programs challenged in this case,
Congress has acted both with respect to private individuals
and, as in Futlilove, with respect to the States themselves.'
When Congress does this, it draws its power directly from
10 That section reads:
§5 of the Fourteenth Amendment.
selective federal legislation that would be unacceptable for an individual
a
State. On the other hand, when a federal rule is applicable to only
limited territory, such as the District of Columbia, or an insular possession,
and when there is no special national interest involved, the Due Process
Clause has been construed as having the same significance as the Equal
Protection Clause."
9The funding for the preferences challenged in this case comes from the
Surface Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987
(STURAA), 101 Stat. 132, in which Congress has granted funds to the
States in exchange for a commitment to foster subcontracting by disadvantaged business enterprises, or "DBE's." STURAA is also the source of
funding for DBE preferences in federal highway contracting. Approximately 98% of STURAA's funding is allocated to the States. Brief for
Respondents 38, n. 34. Moreover, under STURAA States are empowered
to certify businesses as "disadvantaged" for purposes of receiving subcontracting preferences in both state and federal contracts. STURAA
§ 106(c)(4), 101 Stat. 146.
In this case, Adarand has sued only the federal officials responsible for
implementing federal highway contracting policy; it has not directly challenged DBE preferences granted in state contracts funded by STURAA.
It is not entirely clear, then, whether the majority's "congruence" rationale
would apply to federally regulated state contracts, which may conceivably
be within the majority's view of Congress' §5 authority even if the federal
contracts are not. See Metro Broadcasting,497 U. S., at 603-604 (O'CoNNOR, J., dissenting). As I read the majority's opinion, however, it draws
no distinctions between direct federal preferences and federal preferences
achieved through subsidies to States. The extent to which STURAA intertwines elements of direct federal regulations with elements of federal
conditions on grants to the States would make such a distinction difficult
to sustain.
10 Because Congress has acted with respect to the States in enacting
STURAA, we need not revisit today the difficult question of § 5's application to pure federal regulation of individuals.

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)

STEVENS, J., dissenting

"The Congress shall have power to enforce, by appropriate
legislation, the provisions of this article." One of the "provisions of this article" that Congress is thus empowered to
enforce reads: "No State shall make or enforce any law
which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens
of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person
of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor
deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." U. S. Const., Amdt. 14, § 1. The Fourteenth Amendment directly empowers Congress at the same
time it expressly limits the States." This is no accident. It
represents our Nation's consensus, achieved after hard experience throughout our sorry history of race relations, that
the Federal Government must be the primary defender of
racial minorities against the States, some of which may be
inclined to oppress such minorities. A rule of "congruence"
that ignores a purposeful "incongruity" so fundamental to
our system of government is unacceptable.
In my judgment, the Court's novel doctrine of "congruence" is seriously misguided. Congressional deliberations
about a matter as important as affirmative action should be
accorded far greater deference than those of a State or
municipality.
IV
The Court's concept of stare decisis treats some of the language we have used in explaining our decisions as though it
n We have read §5 as a positive grant of authority to Congress, not just
to punish violations, but also to define and expand the scope of the Equal
Protection Clause. Katzenbach v. Morgan,384 U. S. 641 (1966). In Katzenbach, this meant that Congress under §5 could require the States to
allow non-English-speaking citizens to vote, even if denying such citizens a
vote would not have been an independent violation of § 1. Id., at 648-651.
Congress, then, can expand the coverage of § 1 by exercising its power
under §5 when it acts to foster equality. Congress has done just that
here; it has decided that granting certain preferences to minorities best
serves the goals of equal protection.

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
STEVENS, J., dissenting

were more important than our actual holdings. In my opinion that treatment is incorrect.
This is the third time in the Court's entire history
that it has considered the constitutionality of a federal
affirmative-action program. On each of the two prior occasions, the first in 1980, Fullilove v. Klutznick, 448 U. S. 448,
and the second in 1990, Metro Broadcasting,Inc. v. FCC,497
U. S. 547, the Court upheld the program. Today the Court
explicitly overrules Metro Broadcasting (at least in part),
ante, at 227, and undermines Fullilove by recasting the
standard on which it rested and by calling even its holding
into question, ante, at 235. By way of explanation, JUSTICE
O'CONNOR advises the federal agencies and private parties
that have made countless decisions in reliance on those cases
that "we do not depart from the fabric of the law; we restore
it." Ante, at 234. A skeptical observer might ask whether
this pronouncement is a faithful application of the doctrine
of stare decisis.12 A brief comment on each of the two ailing
cases may provide the answer.
In the Court's view, our decision in Metro Broadcasting
was inconsistent with the rule announced in Richmond v.
J A. Croson Co., 488 U. S. 469 (1989). Ante, at 225-226.
But two decisive distinctions separate those two cases.
First, Metro Broadcasting involved a federal program,
whereas Croson involved a city ordinance. Metro Broadcasting thus drew primary support from Futtilove, which
predated Croson and which Croson distinguished on the
grounds of the federal-state dichotomy that the majority
today discredits. Although Members of today's majority
trumpeted the importance of that distinction in Croson, they
now reject it in the name of "congruence." It is therefore
0ur skeptical observer might also notice that JUSTICE O'CONNOR'S
explanation for departing from settled precedent is joined only by JUSTICE
KENNEDY. Ante, at 204. Three Members of the majority thus provide
no explanation whatsoever for their unwillingness to adhere to the doctrine of stare deeisis.
12

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
STEVENs, J., dissenting

quite wrong for the Court to suggest today that overruling
Metro Broadcastingmerely restores the status quo ante, for
the law at the time of that decision was entirely open to the
result the Court reached. Today's decision is an unjustified
departure from settled law.
Second, Metro Broadcasting'sholding rested on more than
its application of "intermediate scrutiny." Indeed, I have
always believed that, labels notwithstanding, the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) program we upheld in
that case would have satisfied any of our various standards
in affirmative-action cases-including the one the majority
fashions today. What truly distinguishes Metro Broadcasting from our other affirmative-action precedents is the distinctive goal of the federal program in that case. Instead
of merely seeking to remedy past discrimination, the FCC
program was intended to achieve future benefits in the form
of broadcast diversity. Reliance on race as a legitimate
means of achieving diversity was first endorsed by Justice
Powell in Regents of Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke, 438 U. S. 265,
311-319 (1978). Later, in Wygant v. Jackson Bd. of Ed., 476
U. S. 267 (1986), I also argued that race is not always irrelevant to governmental decisionmaking, see id., at 314-315
(STEVENS, J., dissenting); in response, JUSTICE O'CONNOR
correctly noted that, although the school board had relied on
an interest in providing black teachers to serve as role models for black students, that interest "'should not be confused
with the very different goal of promoting racial diversity
among the faculty." Id., at 288, n. She then added that,
because the school board had not relied on an interest in
diversity, it was not "necessary to discuss the magnitude of
that interest or its applicability in this case." Ibid.
Thus, prior to Metro Broadcasting,the interest in diversity had been mentioned in a few opinions, but it is perfectly
clear that the Court had not yet decided whether that interest had sufficient magnitude to justify a racial classification.
Metro Broadcasting,of course, answered that question in the

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

affirmative. The majority today overrules Metro Broadcasting only insofar as it is "inconsistent with [the] holding"
that strict scrutiny applies to "benign" racial classifications
promulgated by the Federal Government. Ante, at 227.
The proposition that fostering diversity may provide a sufficient interest to justify such a program is not inconsistent
with the Court's holding today-indeed, the question is not
remotely presented in this case-and I do not take the
Court's opinion to diminish that aspect of our decision in
Metro Broadcasting.
The Court's suggestion that it may be necessary in the
future to overrule Fullilove in order to restore the fabric
of the law, ante, at 235, is even more disingenuous than its
treatment of Metro Broadcasting. For the Court endorses
the "strict scrutiny" standard that Justice Powell applied in
Bakke, see ante, at 224, and acknowledges that he applied
that standard in Fullilove as well, ante, at 218-219. Moreover, Chief Justice Burger also expressly concluded that the
program we considered in Fultilove was valid under any of
the tests articulated in Bakke, which of course included Justice Powell's. 448 U. S., at 492. The Court thus adopts a
standard applied in Fullilove at the same time it questions
that case's continued vitality and accuses it of departing from
prior law. I continue to believe that the Fultilove case was
incorrectly decided, see id., at 532-554 (STEVENS, J., dissenting), but neither my dissent nor that filed by Justice Stewart,
the issue the
id., at 522-532, contained any suggestion that
13 As was true
Court was resolving had been decided before.
Of course, Justice Stewart believed that his view, disapproving of racial classifications of any kind, was consistent with this Court's precedents.
See ante, at 234-235, citing 448 U. S., at 523-526. But he did not claim
that the question whether the Federal Government could engage in raceconscious affirmative action had been decided before Fuflilove. The fact
that a Justice dissents from an opinion means that he disagrees with the
result; it does not usually mean that he believes the decision so departs
from the fabric of the law that its reasoning ought to be repudiated at the
8

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)

STEVENS, J., dissenting

of Metro Broadcasting,the Court in Fullilove decided an
important, novel, and difficult question. Providing a different answer to a similar question today cannot fairly be characterized as merely "restoring" previously settled law.
V
The Court's holding in Fullilove surely governs the result
in this case. The Public Works Employment Act of 1977
(1977 Act), 91 Stat. 116, which this Court upheld in Fullilove,
is different in several critical respects from the portions of
the Small Business Act (SBA), 72 Stat. 384, as amended, 15
U. S. C. § 631 et seq., and STURAA, 101 Stat. 132, challenged
in this case. Each of those differences makes the current
program designed to provide assistance to DBE's significantly less objectionable than the 1977 categorical grant of
$400 million in exchange for a 10% set-aside in public contracts to "a class of investors defined solely by racial characteristics." Fullilove,448 U. S., at 532 (STEVENS, J., dissenting). In no meaningful respect is the current scheme more
objectionable than the 1977 Act. Thus, if the 1977 Act was
constitutional, then so must be the SBA and STURAA. Indeed, even if my dissenting views in Fullilove had prevailed,
this program would be valid.
Unlike the 1977 Act, the present statutory scheme does
not make race the sole criterion of eligibility for participation
in the program. Race does give rise to a rebuttable
presumption of social disadvantage which, at least under
STURAA, 14 gives rise to a second rebuttable presumption
next opportunity. Much less does a dissent bind or authorize a later majority
14 to reject a precedent with which it disagrees.
STURAA accords a rebuttable presumption of both social and economic disadvantage to members of racial minority groups. 49 CFR
§23.62 (1994). In contrast, §8(a) of the SBA accords a presumption only
of social disadvantage, 13 CFR §124.105(b) (1995); the applicant has the
burden of demonstrating economic disadvantage, id., § 124.106.

Finally,

§8(d) of the SBA accords at least a presumption of social disadvantage,
but it is ambiguous as to whether economic disadvantage is presumed or

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

a
of economic disadvantage. 49 CFR § 23:62 (1994). But
small business may qualify as a DBE, by showing that it is
both socially and economically disadvantaged, even if it receives neither of these presumptions. 13 CFR §§ 124.105(c),
124.106 (1995); 48 CFR § 19.703 (1994); 49 CFR pt. 23, subpt.
is
D., Apps. A and C (1994). Thus, the current preference
make
not
does
it
because
more inclusive than the 1977 Act
race a necessary qualification.
More importantly, race is not a sufficient qualification.
Whereas a millionaire with a long history of financial successes, who was a member of numerous social clubs and trade
associations, would have qualified for a preference under the
1977 Act merely because he was an Asian-American or an
African-American, see Fullilove, 448 U. S., at 537-538, 540,
the
543-544, and n. 16, 546 (STEVENS, J., dissenting), neither
DBE
The
SBA nor STURAA creates any such anomaly.
are not,
program excludes members of minority races who
15 13 CFR
disadvantaged.
in fact, socially or economically
§ 124.106(a)(ii) (1995); 49 CFR §23.69 (1994). The presumption of social disadvantage reflects the unfortunate fact that
irrational racial prejudice-along with its lingering effectsstill survives. 6 The presumption of economic disadvantage
V); 13 CFR
must be shown. See 15 U. S. C. §637(d)(3) (1988 ed. and Supp.
§ 124.601 (1995).
15The Government apparently takes this exclusion seriously. See
1993) (upholdAutek Systems Corp. v. United States, 835 F. Supp. 13 (DC
owner's
business
minority
that
decision
Administration
ing Small Business
personal income disqualified him from DBE status under §8(a) program),
aff'd, 43 F. 3d 712 (CADC 1994).
16"The unhappy persistence of both the practice and the lingering
country
effects of racial discrimination against minority groups in this
acting
from
disqualified
is an unfortunate reality, and government is not
in response to it." Ante, at 237.
His"Our findings clearly state that groups such as black Americans, be
to
continue
and
been
have
Americans,
Native
and
panic Americans,
led to the social
discriminated against and that this discrimination has
of those
members
as
society
by
disadvantagement of persons identified
(1978)
34097
groups." 124 Cong. Rec.

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

embodies a recognition that success in the private sector of
the economy is often attributable, in part, to social skills and
relationships. Unlike the 1977 set-asides, the current preference is designed to overcome the social and economic
disadvantages that are often associated with racial characteristics. If, in a particular case, these disadvantages are
not present, the presumptions can be rebutted. 13 CFR
§§ 124.601-124.610 (1995); 49 CFR §23.69 (1994). The program is thus designed to allow race to play a part in the
decisional process only when there is a meaningful basis for
assuming its relevance. In this connection, I think it is particularly significant that the current program targets the negotiation of subcontracts between private firms. The 1977
Act applied entirely to the award of public contracts, an area
of the economy in which social relationships should be irrelevant and in which proper supervision of government contracting officers should preclude any discrimination against
particular bidders on account of their race. In this case, in
contrast, the program seeks to overcome barriers of prejudice between private parties-specifically, between general
contractors and subcontractors. The SBA and STURAA
embody Congress' recognition that such barriers may actually handicap minority firms seeking business as subcontractors from established leaders in the industry that have a history of doing business with their golfing partners. Indeed,
minority subcontractors may face more obstacles than direct,
intentional racial prejudice: They may face particular barriers simply because they are more likely to be new in the
business and less likely to know others in the business.
Given such difficulties, Congress could reasonably find that
a minority subcontractor is less likely to receive favors from
the entrenched businesspersons who award subcontracts
only to people with whom--or with whose friends-they
have an existing relationship. This program, then, if in part
a remedy for past discrimination, is most importantly a

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

forward-looking response to practical problems faced by minority subcontractors.
The current program contains another forward-looking
component that the 1977 set-asides did not share. Section
8(a) of the SBA provides for periodic review of the status of
DBE's, 15 U. S. C. §§ 637(a)(B)-(C) (1988 ed., Supp. V); 13
CFR § 124.602(a) (1995), 17 and DBE status can be challenged
by a competitor at any time under any of the routes to certification. 13 CFR § 124.603 (1995); 49 CFR § 23.69 (1994).
Such review prevents ineligible firms from taking part in
the program solely because of their minority ownership, even
when those firms were once disadvantaged but have since
become successful. The emphasis on review also indicates
the Administration's anticipation that after their presumed
disadvantages have been overcome, firms will "graduate"
into a status in which they will be able to compete for business, including prime contracts, on an equal basis. 13 CFR
§ 124.208 (1995). As with other phases of the statutory policy of encouraging the formation and growth of small business enterprises, this program is intended to facilitate entry
and increase competition in the free market.
Significantly, the current program, unlike the 1977 setaside, does not establish any requirement-numerical or otherwise-that a general contractor must hire DBE subcontractors. The program we upheld in Fullilove required that
10% of the federal grant for every federally funded project
be expended on minority business enterprises. In contrast,
the current program contains no quota. Although it provides monetary incentives to general contractors to hire
DBE subcontractors, it does not require them to hire DBE's,
The Department of Transportation strongly urges States to institute
periodic review of businesses certified as DBE's under STURAA, 49 CFR
pt. 23, subpt. D, App. A (1994), but it does not mandate such review. Respondents point us to no provisions for review of § 8(d) certification, although such review may be derivative for those businesses that receive
§ 8(d) certification as a result of § 8(a) or STURAA certification.
17

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

and they do not lose their contracts if they fail to do so. The
importance of this incentive to general contractors (who always seek to offer the lowest bid) should not be underestimated; but the preference here is far less rigid, and thus
more narrowly tailored, than the 1977 Act. Cf. Bakke, 438
U. S., at 319-320 (opinion of Powell, J.) (distinguishing between numerical set-asides and consideration of race as a
factor).
Finally, the record shows a dramatic contrast between the
sparse deliberations that preceded the 1977 Act, see Fullilove, 448 U. S., at 549-550 (STEVENS, J., dissenting), and the
extensive hearings conducted in several Congresses before
the current program was developed.' 8 However we might
18 Respondents point us to the following legislative history:
H. R. 5612, To amend the Small Business Act to Extend the current SBA
8(a) Pilot Program: Hearing on H. R. 5612 before the Senate Select Committee on Small Business, 96th Cong., 2d Sess. (1980); Small and Minority
Business in the Decade of the 1980's (Part 1): Hearings before the House
Committee on Small Business, 97th Cong., 1st Sess. (1981); Minority Business and Its Contribution to the U. S. Economy: Hearing before the Senate Committee on Small Business, 97th Cong., 2d Sess. (1982); Federal
Contracting Opportunities for Minority and Women-Owned BusinessesAn Examination of the 8(d) Subcontracting Program: Hearings before the
Senate Committee on Small Business, 98th Cong., 1st Sess. (1983); Women
Entrepreneurs-Their Success and Problems: Hearing before the Senate
Committee on Small Business, 98th Cong., 2d Sess. (1984); State of Hispanic Small Business in America: Hearing before the Subcommittee on
SBA and SBIC Authority, Minority Enterprise, and General Small Business Problems of the House Committee on Small Business, 99th Cong., 1st
Sess. (1985); Minority Enterprise and General Small Business Problems:
Hearing before the Subcommittee on SBA and SBIC Authority, Minority
Enterprise, and General Small Business Problems of the House Committee
on Small Business, 99th Cong., 2d Sess. (1986); Disadvantaged Business
Set-Asides in Transportation Construction Projects: Hearings before the
Subcommittee on Procurement, Innovation, and Minority Enterprise Development of the House Committee on Small Business, 100th Cong., 2d
Sess. (1988); Barriers to Full Minority Participation in Federally Funded
Highway Construction Projects: Hearing before a Subcommittee of the
House Committee on Government Operations, 100th Cong., 2d Sess. (1988);

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
SOUTER, J., dissenting

evaluate the benefits and costs-both fiscal and social-of
this or any other affirmative-action program, our obligation
to give deference to Congress' policy choices is much more
demanding in this case than it was in Fullilove. If the 1977
program of race-based set-asides satisfied the strict scrutiny
dictated by Justice Powell's vision of the Constitution-a vision the Court expressly endorses today-it must follow as
night follows the day that the Court of Appeals' judgment
upholding this more carefully crafted program should be
affirmed.
VI
My skeptical scrutiny of the Court's opinion leaves me in
dissent. The majority's concept of "consistency" ignores a
difference, fundamental to the idea of equal protection, between oppression and assistance. The majority's concept of
"congruence" ignores a difference, fundamental to our constitutional system, between the Federal Government and the
States. And the majority's concept of stare decisis ignores
the force of binding precedent. I would affirm the judgment
of the Court of Appeals.
JUSTICE SOUTER, with whom JUSTICE GINSBURG
JUSTICE BREYER join, dissenting.

and

As this case worked its way through the federal courts
prior to the grant of certiorari that brought it here, petitioner Adarand Constructors, Inc., was understood to have
raised only one significant claim: that before a federal agency
may exceed the goals adopted by Congress in implementing
a race-based remedial program, the Fifth and Fourteenth
Amendments require the agency to make specific findings of
Surety Bonds and Minority Contractors: Hearing before the Subcommittee on Commerce, Consumer Protection, and Competitiveness of the
House Committee on Energy and Commerce, 100th Cong., 2d Sess. (1988);
Small Business Problems: Hearings before the House Committee on Small
Business, 100th Cong., 1st Sess. (1987). See Brief for Respondents 9-10,
n. 9.

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
SOUTER, J.,

dissenting

discrimination, as under Richmond v. J A Croson Co., 488
U.S. 469 (1989), sufficient to justify surpassing the congressional objective. See 16 F. 3d 1537, 1544 (CA10 1994) ("The
gravamen of Adarand's argument is that the CFLHD must
make particularized findings of past discrimination to justify
its race-conscious SCC program under Croson because the
precise goals of the challenged SCC program were fashioned
and specified by an agency and not by Congress"); Adarand
Constructors,Inc. v. Skinner, 790 F. Supp. 240, 242 (Colo.
1992) ('Plaintiff's motion for summary judgment seeks a declaratory judgment and permanent injunction against the
DOT, the FHA and the CFLHD until specific findings of discrimination are made by the defendants as allegedly required by City of Richmond v. Croson"); cf. Complaint 28,
App. 20 (federal regulations violate the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments by requiring "the use of racial and gender preferences in the award of federally financed highway
construction contracts, without any findings of past discrimination in the award of such contracts").
Although the petition for certiorari added an antecedent
question challenging the use, under the Fifth and Fourteenth
Amendments, of any standard below strict scrutiny to judge
the constitutionality of the statutes under which respondents
acted, I would not have entertained that question in this
case. The statutory scheme must be treated as constitutional if Fullilove v. Klutznick, 448 U. S. 448 (1980), is applied, and petitioner did not identify any of the factual premises on which Fullilove rested as having disappeared since
that case was decided.
As the Court's opinion explains in detail, the scheme in
question provides financial incentives to general contractors
to hire subcontractors who have been certified as disadvantaged business enterprises (DBE's) on the basis of certain
race-based presumptions. See generally ante, at 206-208.
These statutes (or the originals, of which the current ones
are reenactments) have previously been justified as provid-

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
SOUTER, J.,

dissenting

ing remedies for the continuing effects of past discrimination, see, e. g., Fullilove, supra, at 465-466 (citing legislative
history describing SBA § 8(a) as remedial), S. Rep. No. 100-4,
p. 11 (1987) (Committee Report stating that the DBE provision of STURAA was "necessary to remedy the discrimination faced by socially and economically disadvantaged persons"), and the Government has so defended them in this
case, Brief for Respondents 33. Since petitioner has not
claimed the obsolescence of any particular fact on which the
Fullilove Court upheld the statute, no issue has come up to
us that might be resolved in a way that would render Fullilove inapposite. See, e. g., 16 F. 3d, at 1544 ("Adarand has
stipulated that section 502 of the Small Business Act...
satisfies the evidentiary requirements of Fullilove"); Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of Plaintiff's
Motion for Summary Judgment in No. 90-C-1413 (D. Colo.),
p. 12 (Fullilove is not applicable to the case at bar because
"[f]irst and foremost, Fu~lilove stands for only one proposition relevant here: the ability of the U. S. Congress, under
certain limited circumstances, to adopt a race-base[d]
remedy").
In these circumstances, I agree with JUSTICE STEVENS'S
conclusion that stare decisis compels the application of Fullilove. Although Fullilove did not reflect doctrinal consistency, its several opinions produced a result on shared
grounds that petitioner does not attack: that discrimination
in the construction industry had been subject to government
acquiescence, with effects that remain and that may be addressed by some preferential treatment falling within the
congressional power under § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment.' Fullilove, 448 U. S., at 477-478 (opinion of Burger,
1If the statutes are within the § 5 power, they are just as enforceable
when the National Government makes a construction contract directly as
when it funnels construction money through the States. In any event, as
JUSTICE STEVENS has noted, see ante, at 247-248, n. 5, 248-249, n. 6, it is

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
SOUTER, J., dissenting

C. J.); id., at 503 (Powell, J., concurring); id., at 520-521 (Marshall, J., concurring in judgment). Once Fullilove is applied, as JUSTICE STEVENS points out, it follows that the
statutes in question here (which are substantially better tailored to the harm being remedied than the statute endorsed
in Fullilove, see ante, at 259-264 (STEVENS, J., dissenting))
pass muster under Fifth Amendment due process and Fourteenth Amendment equal protection.
The Court today, however, does not reach the application
of Fultilove to the facts of this case, and on remand it will
be incumbent on the Government and petitioner to address
anew the facts upon which statutes like these must be judged
on the Government's remedial theory of justification: facts
about the current effects of past discrimination, the necessity
for a preferential remedy, and the suitability of this particular preferential scheme. Petitioner could, of course, have
raised all of these issues under the standard employed by
the Fullilove plurality, and without now trying to read the
current congressional evidentiary record that may bear on
resolving these issues I have to recognize the possibility that
proof of changed facts might have rendered Fulilove's conclusion obsolete as judged under the Fullilove plurality's
own standard. Be that as it may, it seems fair to ask
whether the statutes will meet a different fate from what
Fullilove would have decreed. The answer is, quite probably not, though of course there will be some interpretive
forks in the road before the significance of strict scrutiny for
congressional remedial statutes becomes entirely clear.
The result in Fullilove was controlled by the plurality for
whom Chief Justice Burger spoke in announcing the judgment. Although his opinion did not adopt any label for the
standard it applied, and although it was later seen as calling
for less than strict scrutiny, Metro Broadcasting, Inc. v.
not clear whether the current challenge implicates only Fifth Amendment
due process or Fourteenth Amendment equal protection as well.

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
SOUTER, J.,

dissenting

FCC,497 U. S. 547, 564 (1990), none other than Justice Powell
joined the plurality opinion as comporting with his own view
that a strict scrutiny standard should be applied to all injurious race-based classifications. Fullilove, supra, at 495-496
(concurring opinion) ("Although I would place greater emphasis than THE CHIEF JUSTICE on the need to articulate
judicial standards of review in conventional terms, I view his
opinion announcing the judgment as substantially in accord
with my views"). Chief Justice Burger's noncategorical approach is probably best seen not as more lenient than strict
scrutiny but as reflecting his conviction that the treble-tiered
scrutiny structure merely embroidered on a single standard
of reasonableness whenever an equal protection challenge
required a balancing of justification against probable harm.
See Cleburne v. Cleburne Living Center,Inc., 473 U. S. 432,
451 (1985) (STEVENS, J., concurring, joined by Burger, C. J.).
Indeed, the Court's very recognition today that strict scrutiny can be compatible with the survival of a classification so
reviewed demonstrates that our concepts of equal protection
enjoy a greater elasticity than the standard categories might
suggest. See ante, at 237 ("[W]e wish to dispel the notion
that strict scrutiny is 'strict in theory, but fatal in fact.'
Fullilove, supra, at 519 (Marshall, J., concurring in judgment)"); see also Missouri v. Jenkins, ante, at 112 (O'CONNOR, J., concurring) ("But it is not true that strict scrutiny
is 'strict in theory, but fatal in fact' ").
In assessing the degree to which today's holding portends
a departure from past practice, it is also worth noting that
nothing in today's opinion implies any view of Congress's § 5
power and the deference due its exercise thiat differs from
the views expressed by the Futlilove plurality. The Court
simply notes the observation in Croson "that the Court's
'treatment of an exercise of congressional power in Fullilove
cannot be dispositive here,' because Croson's facts did not
implicate Congress's broad power under § 5 of the Fourteenth
Amendment," ante, at 222, and explains that there is dis-

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
SOUTER, J., dissenting

agreement among today's majority about the extent of the
§ 5 power, ante, at 230-231. There is therefore no reason to
treat the opinion as affecting one way or another the views
of § 5 power, described as "broad," ante, at 269, "unique,"
Fullilove, 448 U. S., at 500 (Powell, J., concurring), and "unlike [that of] any state or political subdivision," Croson, 488
U. S., at 490 (opinion of O'CONNOR, J.). See also Jenkins,
ante, at 113 (O'CONNOR, J., concurring) ("Congress... enjoys
"'discretion in determining whether and what legislation is
needed to secure the guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment,"' Croson, 488 U. S., at 490 (quoting Katzenbach v.
Morgan, 384 U. S., at 651)"). Thus, today's decision should
leave §5 exactly where it is as the source of an interest of
the National Government sufficiently important to satisfy
the corresponding requirement of the strict scrutiny test.
Finally, I should say that I do not understand that today's
decision will necessarily have any effect on the resolution of
an issue that was just as pertinent under Fullilove's unlabeled standard as it is under the standard of strict scrutiny
now adopted by the Court. The Court has long accepted
the view that constitutional authority to remedy past discrimination is not limited to the power to forbid its continuation, but extends to eliminating those effects that would
otherwise persist and skew the operation of public systems
even in the absence of current intent to practice any discrimination. See Albemarle Paper Co. v. Moody, 422 U. S. 405,
418 (1975) ("Where racial discrimination is concerned, 'the
[district] court has not merely the power but the duty to
render a decree which will so far as possible eliminate the
discriminatory effects of the past as well as bar like discrimination in the future"'), quoting Louisiana v. United States,
380 U. S. 145, 154 (1965). This is so whether the remedial
authority is exercised by a court, see ibid.; Green v. School
Bd. of New Kent Cty., 391 U. S. 430, 437 (1968), the Congress,
see Fullilove, supra, at 502 (Powell, J., concurring), or
some other legislature, see Croson, supra, at 491-492 (opin-

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
SOUTER, J.,

dissenting

ion of O'CONNOR, J.). Indeed, a majority of the Court today
reiterates that there are circumstances in which Government
may, consistently with the Constitution, adopt programs
aimed at remedying the effects of past invidious discrimination. See, e. g., ante, at 228-229, 237 (opinion of O'CONNOR,
J.); ante, at 243 (STEVENS, J., with whom GINSBURG, J., joins,
dissenting); post, at 273, 275-276 (GINSBURG, J., with whom
BREYER, J., joins, dissenting); Jenkins, ante, at 112 (O'CONNOR, J., concurring) (noting the critical difference "between
unconstitutional discrimination and narrowly tailored remedial programs that legislatures may enact to further the
compelling governmental interest in redressing the effects
of past discrimination").
When the extirpation of lingering discriminatory effects
is thought to require a catchup mechanism, like the racially
preferential inducement under the statutes considered here,
the result may be that some members of the historically
favored race are hurt by that remedial mechanism, however
innocent they may be of any personal responsibility for any
discriminatory conduct. When this price is considered reasonable, it is in part because it is a price to be paid only
temporarily; if the justification for the preference is eliminating the effects of a past practice, the assumption is that the
effects will themselves recede into the past, becoming attenuated and finally disappearing. Thus, Justice Powell wrote
in his concurring opinion in Funlilove that the "temporary
nature of this remedy ensures that a race-conscious program
will not last longer than the discriminatory effects it is designed to eliminate." 448 U. S., at 513; ante, at 237-238
(opinion of the Court).
Surely the transition from the Fultilove plurality view (in
which Justice Powell joined) to today's strict scrutiny (which
will presumably be applied as Justice Powell employed it)
does not signal a change in the standard by which the burden
of a remedial racial preference is to be judged as reasonable
or not at any given time. If in the District Court Adarand

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
GINSBURG, J.,

dissenting

had chosen to press a challenge to the reasonableness of the
burden of these statutes, 2 more than a decade after Fullilove
had examined such a burden, I doubt that the claim would
have fared any differently from the way it will now be
treated on remand from this Court.
with whom JUSTICE BREYER joins,
dissenting.
For the reasons stated by JUSTICE SOUTER, and in view of
the attention the political branches are currently giving the
matter of affirmative action, I see no compelling cause for
the intervention the Court has made in this case. I further
JUSTICE GINSBURG,

agree with JUSTICE STEVENS that, in this area, large defer-

ence is owed by the Judiciary to "Congress' institutional
competence and constitutional authority to overcome historic
racial subjugation." Ante, at 253 (STEVENS, J., dissenting);
see ante, at 254-255.1 I write separately to underscore not
the differences the several opinions in this case display, but
the considerable field of agreement-the common understandings and concerns-revealed in opinions that together
speak for a majority of the Court.
21

say "press a challenge" because petitioner's Memorandum in Support

of Summary Judgment did include an argument challenging the reasonableness of the duration of the statutory scheme; but the durational claim
was not, so far as I am aware, stated elsewhere, and, in any event, was

not the gravamen of the complaint.

IOn congressional authority to enforce the equal protection principle,

see, e. g., Heart of Atlanta Motel, Inc. v. United States, 379 U. S. 241, 286

(1964) (Douglas, J., concurring) (recognizing Congress' authority, under §5

of the Fourteenth Amendment, to "pu[t] an end to all obstructionist strategies and allo[w] every person-whatever his race, creed, or color-to patronize all places of public accommodation without discrimination whether
he travels interstate or intrastate."); id., at 291, 293 (Goldberg, J., concurring) ("primary purpose of the Civil Rights Act of 1964... is the vindication of human dignity"; "Congress clearly had authority under both § 5 of
the Fourteenth Amendment and the Commerce Clause" to enact the law);.
G. Gunther, Constitutional Law 147-151 (12th ed. 1991).

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

I
The statutes and regulations at issue, as the Court indicates, were adopted by the political branches in response to
an "unfortunate reality": "[tihe unhappy persistence of both
the practice and the lingering effects of racial discrimination
against minority groups in this country." Ante, at 237 (lead
opinion). The United States suffers from those lingering effects because, for most of our Nation's history, the idea that
"we are just one race," ante, at 239 (ScALIA, J., concurring in
part and concurring in judgment), was not embraced. For
generations, our lawmakers and judges were unprepared to
say that there is in this land no superior race, no race inferior
to any other. In Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537 (1896),
not only did this Court endorse the oppressive practice of
race segregation, but even Justice Harlan, the advocate of a
"color-blind" Constitution, stated:
"The white race deems itself to be the dominant race
in this country. And so it is, in prestige, in achievements, in education, in wealth and in power. So,
I doubt not, it will continue to be for all time, if it remains true to its great heritage and holds fast to the
principles of constitutional liberty." Id., at 559 (dissenting opinion).
Not until Loving v. Virginia, 388 U. S. 1 (1967), which held
unconstitutional Virginia's ban on interracial marriages,
could one say with security that the Constitution and this
Court would abide no measure "designed to maintain White
Supremacy." Id., at 11.2
2

The Court, in 1955 and 1956, refused to rule on the constitutionality of
antimiscegenation laws; it twice declined to accept appeals from the decree
on which the Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals relied in Loving. See
Naim v. Naim, 197 Va. 80, 87 S. E. 2d 749, vacated and remanded, 350
U. S. 891 (1955), reinstated and aff'd, 197 Va. 734, 90 S. E. 2d 849, appeal
dism'd, 350 U. S. 985 (1956). Naim expressed the state court's view of the
legislative purpose served by the Virginia law: "to preserve the racial
integrity of [Virginia's] citizens"; to prevent "the corruption of blood," "a

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

The divisions in this difficult case should not obscure the
Court's recognition of the persistence of racial inequality and
a majority's acknowledgment of Congress' authority to act
affirmatively, not only to end discrimination, but also to counteract discrimination's lingering effects. Ante, at 237 (lead
opinion); see also ante, at 269-270 (SOUTER, J., dissenting).
Those effects, reflective of a system of racial caste only recently ended, are evident in our workplaces, markets, and
neighborhoods. Job applicants with identical resum6s, qualifications, and interview styles still experience different receptions, depending on their race.3 White and AfricanAmerican consumers still encounter different deals. 4 People
of color looking for housing still face discriminatory treatment by landlords, real estate agents, and mortgage lenders. 5
mongrel breed of citizens," and "the obliteration of racial pride." 197 Va.,
at 90, 87 S. E. 2d, at 756.
3See, e. g., H. Cross, G. Kennedy, J. Mell, & W. Zimmermann, Employer
Hiring Practices: Differential Treatment of Hispanic and Anglo Job Seekers 42 (Urban Institute Report 90-4, 1990) (e. g., Anglo applicants sent out
by investigators received 52% more job offers than matched Hispanics);
M. Turner, M. Fix, & R. Struyk, Opportunities Denied, Opportunities Diminished: Racial Discrimination in Hiring xi (Urban Institute Report 91-9,
1991) ("In one out of five audits, the white applicant was able to advance
farther through the hiring process than his black counterpart. In one out
of eight audits, the white was offered a job although his equally qualified
black partner was not. In contrast, black auditors advanced farther than
their white counterparts only 7 percent of the time, and received job offers
while
their white partners did not in 5 percent of the audits.").
4
See, e.g., Ayres, Fair Driving. Gender and Race Discrimination in
Retail Car Negotiations, 104 Harv. L. Rev. 817, 821-822, 819, 828 (1991)
("blacks and women simply cannot buy the same car for the same price as
can white men using identical bargaining strategies"; the final offers given
white female testers reflected 40 percent higher markups than those given
white male testers; final offer markups for black male testers were twice
as high, and for black female testers three times as high as for white
male testers).
5
See, e.g., A Common Destiny- Blacks and American Society 50 (G.
Jaynes & R. Williams eds. 1989) ("[In many metropolitan areas onequarter to one-half of all [housing] inquiries by blacks are met by clearly

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

Minority entrepreneurs sometimes fail to gain contracts
though they are the low bidders, and they are sometimes
refused work even after winning contracts. 6 Bias both conscious and unconscious, reflecting traditional and unexamined habits of thought,7 keeps up barriers that must come
down if equal opportunity and nondiscrimination are ever
genuinely to become this country's law and practice.
Given this history and its practical consequences, Congress surely can conclude that a carefully designed affirmative action program may help to realize, finally, the "equal
protection of the laws" the Fourteenth Amendment has
promised since 1868.8
discriminatory responses."); M. Turner, R. Struyk, & J. Yinger, U. S. Dept.
of Housing and Urban Development, Housing Discrimination Study: Synthesis i-vii (Sept. 1991) (1989 audit study of housing searches in 25 metropolitan areas; over half of African-American and Hispanic testers seeking
to rent or buy experienced some form of unfavorable treatment compared
to paired white testers); Leahy, Are Racial Factors Important for the Allocation of Mortgage Money?, 44 Am. J. Econ. & Soc. 185, 193 (1985) (controlling for socioeconomic factors, and concluding that "even when neighborhoods appear to be similar on every major mortgage-lending criterion
except race, mortgage-lending outcomes are still unequal").
6See, e.g., Associated General Contractors v. Coalitionfor Economic
Equity, 950 F. 2d 1401, 1415 (CA9 1991) (detailing examples in San
Francisco).
7Cf. Wygant v. JacksonBd. of Ed., 476 U. S.267, 318 (1986) (STEVENS,
J., dissenting); Califano v. Goldfarb, 430 U. S. 199, 222-223 (1977) (STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment).
8 On the differences between laws designed to benefit a historically disfavored group and laws designed to burden such a group, see, e. g., Carter,
When Victims Happen To Be Black, 97 Yale L. J. 420, 433-434 (1988)
("[W]hatever the source of racism, to count it the same as racialism, to say
that two centuries of struggle for the most basic of civil rights have been
mostly about freedom from racial categorization rather than freedom from
racial oppression, is to trivialize the lives and deaths of those who have
suffered under racism. To pretend.., that the issue presented in Bakke
was the same as the issue in Brown is to pretend that history never happened and that the present doesn't exist.").

Cite as: 515 U. S. 200 (1995)
GiNSBURG, J.,

dissenting

IH
The lead opinion uses one term, "strict scrutiny," to describe the standard of judicial review for all governmental
classifications by race. Ante, at 235-237. But that opinion's elaboration strongly suggests that the strict standard
announced is indeed "fatal" for classifications burdening
groups that have suffered discrimination in our society.
That seems to me, and, I believe, to the Court, the enduring
lesson one should draw from Korematsu v. United States,
323 U. S. 214 (1944); for in that case, scrutiny the Court described as "most rigid," id., at 216, nonetheless yielded a pass
for an odious, gravely injurious racial classification. See
ante, at 214-215 (lead opinion). A Korematsu-type classification, as I read the opinions in this case, will never again
survive scrutiny: Such a classification, history and precedent
instruct, properly ranks as prohibited.
For a classification made to hasten the day when "we are
just one race," ante, at 239 (SCALIA, J., concurring in part
and concurring in judgment), however, the lead opinion has
dispelled the notion that "strict scrutiny" is "'fatal in fact."'
Ante, at 237 (quoting Fullilove v. Klutznick, 448 U. S.448,
519 (1980) (Marshall, J., concurring in judgment)). Properly,
a majority of the Court calls for review that is searching,
in order to ferret out classifications in reality malign, but
masquerading as benign. See ante, at 228-229 (lead opinion). The Court's once lax review of sex-based classifications demonstrates the need for such suspicion. See, e. g.,
Hoyt v. Florida,368 U. S.57, 60 (1961) (upholding women's
"privilege" of automatic exemption from jury service);
Goesaert v. Cleary, 335 U. S.464 (1948) (upholding Michigan
law barring women from employment as bartenders); see
also Johnston & Knapp, Sex Discrimination by Law: A Study
in Judicial Perspective, 46 N. Y. U. L. Rev. 675 (1971). Today's decision thus usefully reiterates that the purpose of
strict scrutiny "is precisely to distinguish legitimate from

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. PENA
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

illegitimate uses of race in governmental decisionmaking,"
ante, at 228 (lead opinion), "to 'differentiate between' permissible and impermissible governmental use of race," ibid.,
to distinguish "'between a "No Trespassing" sign and a welcome mat,"' ante, at 229.
Close review also is in order for this further reason. As
JUSTICE SOUTER points out, ante, at 270 (dissenting opinion),
and as this very case shows, some members of the historically favored race can be hurt by catchup mechanisms designed to cope with the lingering effects of entrenched racial
subjugation. Court review can ensure that preferences are
not so large as to trammel unduly upon the opportunities of
others or interfere too harshly with legitimate expectations
of persons in once-preferred groups. See, e. g., Bridgeport
Guardians,Inc. v. Bridgeport Civil Service Comm'n, 482
F. 2d 1333, 1341 (CA2 1973).

While I would not disturb the programs challenged in this
case, and would leave their improvement to the political
branches, I see today's decision as one that allows our precedent to evolve, still to be informed by and responsive to
changing conditions.

