OCTOBER TERM, 1994
Per Curlam

NETHERLAND, WARDEN v. TUGGLE
ON APPLICATION TO VACATE STAY OF EXECUTION
No. A-209.

Decided September 1, 1995

On June 29, 1995, the Court of Appeals vacated the District Court's grant
of habeas relief to respondent Tuggle, finding all of his constitutional
claims meritless. However, the court stayed the issuance of its mandate and granted Tuggle a 30-day stay of execution, pending the filing
of a timely petition for certiorari in this Court. It later extended the
stay for the full 90 days allowed to file a certiorari petition.
Held. The stay of execution was improvidently granted and is vacated,
provided that it shall remain in effect until September 20, 1995, to allow
Tuggle's counsel time to seek a further stay in this Court. Since the
Court of Appeals' actions were taken by summary order without opinion
or discussion, there is no indication that the court attempted to undertake the three-part inquiry required by Barefoot v. Estelle, 463 U. S.
880, 895-896. This Court has already rejected the Court of Appeals'
apparent belief that a capital defendant as a matter of right is entitled
to a stay of execution until he has filed a certiorari petition in due
course. E. g., Autry v. Estelle, 464 U. S. 1, 2.
Stay vacated.
PER CURIAM.

Applicant asks that we vacate a stay of execution granted
Tuggle by the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Because we agree with applicant that the stay was improvidently entered, we grant his application to vacate, provided
that the stay shall remain in effect until September 20, 1995,
to allow Tuggle's counsel opportunity to seek a further stay
in this Court.
On June 29, 1995, the Court of Appeals issued an opinion
vacating the District Court's grant of habeas relief, finding
all of Tuggle's constitutional claims to be without merit.
Tuggle v. Thompson, 57 F. 3d 1356. The court stayed the
issuance of its mandate on August 2, however, and granted
Tuggle a 30-day stay of execution pending the fling of a
timely petition for certiorari in this Court; then on August

NETHERLAND v. TUGGLE
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

25 it extended the stay of execution for the full 90 days
allowed to file a certiorari petition in this Court.
Both actions of the court were taken by summary order
without opinion or discussion. Nothing indicates that the
Court of Appeals even attempted to undertake the threepart inquiry required by our decision in Barefoot v. Estelle,
463 U. S. 880, 895-896 (1983). See also Maggio v. Williams,
464 U. S. 46, 48 (1983) (per curiam); Autry v. Estelle, 464
U. S. 1, 2-3 (1983) (per curiam). There is no hint that the
court found that "four Members of th[is] Court would consider the underlying issue sufficiently meritorious for the
grant of certiorari" or that "a significant possibility of reversal" existed. Barefoot, supra, at 895. We think the inescapable conclusion is that the Court of Appeals mistakenly
believed that a capital defendant as a matter of right was
entitled to a stay of execution until he has filed a petition for
certiorari in due course. But this view was rejected in
Autry, supra, at 2, and Maggio, supra, at 48.
Accordingly, the application to vacate the stay of execution
is granted.
JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom JUSTICE GINSBURG joins,

dissenting.
Because there is no support in the record for the conclusion that the Court of Appeals abused its discretion when it
granted a stay of execution to enable respondent Tuggle to
fie a petition for certiorari, I respectfully dissent. The fact
that the respondent has substantial grounds for challenging
the constitutionality of his death sentence is demonstrated
both by the issuance of a writ of habeas corpus by the District Court and by the 19-page opinion filed by the Court of
Appeals. Tuggle v. Thompson, 57 F. 3d 1356 (CA4 1995).
Promptly after that opinion was announced, respondent filed
a motion for a stay of execution supported by an explanation
of why "the three-part inquiry," ante this page, described in
Barefoot v. Estelle, 463 U. S. 880, 895-896 (1983), warranted

Cite as: 515 U. S. 951 (1995)
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

that relief. It is disrespectful to the Court of Appeals to
assume that its grant of that motion did not implicitly endorse the reasoning in respondent's moving papers.
The stay of execution would merely have given respondent
the opportunity to seek the review in this Court that has
been authorized by Congress and our Rules. In my opinion
it is both unwise and unfair to require a death row inmate
who has acted diligently at all stages of his litigation to prepare and file a petition raising substantial claims more
promptly than other litigants. I would deny the warden's
application.
JUSTICE SOUTER

would deny the application to vacate stay

of execution.
JUSTICE BREYER,

for reasons stated in the first paragraph

of JUSTICE STEVENS' dissent, votes to deny the application.

