MOORE V. ROBBINS.

rsup. ot.

MOORE V. ROBBINS.
1. A patent for public land, when issued by the Land Department, acting within
the scope of its authority, and delivered to and accepted by the grantee,
passes the legal title to the land. All control of the Executive Department
of the government over the title thereafter ceases.
2. If there be any lawful reason why the patent should be cancelled or rescinded,
the appropriate remedy is by a bill in chancery, brought by the United
States, but no executive officer is authorized to reconsider the facts on which
it was issued, and to recall or rescind it, or to issue one to another party for
tie same tract.
S. But when fraud or mistake or misconstruction of the law of the case exists,
the United States, or any contesting claimant for the land, may have relief
in a court of equity.
4. Under sect. 14 of the act of 1841 (5 Stat. 457), and the act of March 3,1853 (10
id. 244), no pre-emption claim was of any avail against a purchaser of the
land at the public sales ordered by the proclamation of the President, unless,
before they commenced, the claimant had proved up his settlement and paid
for the land.
5. The decision of the Secretary of the Interior, against a purchaser at the public sales, in favor of a pre-emption claimant who had failed to make the
required proof and payment, was erroneous, as a misconception of the law
and the equitable title should be decreed to belong to the purchaser

to the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Mr. Philip Phillipsfor the plaintiff in error.
Mr. B. . Williams, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is brought before us by a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois.
In its inception, it was a bill in the Circuit Court for De
Witt County, to foreclose a mortgage given by Thomas I. Bunn
to his brother Lewis Bunn, on the south half of the south-east
quarter and the south half of the south-west quarter of section
27, township 19, range 3 east, in said county. In the progress
of the case, the bill was amended so as to allege that C. H.
Moore and David Davis set up some claim to the land; and they
were made defendants, and answered.
Moore said that he was the rightful owner of forty acres of the
land mentioned in the bill and mortgage, to wit, the south-west

O)ct. 1877.)

MOORE V. ROBBINS.

,quarter of the south-west quarter of said section, and had the
patent of the United States giving him the title to it.
Davis answered that he was the rightful owner of the south,east quarter of said south-west quarter of section 27. He alleges that John P. Mitchell bought the land at the public sale
of lands ordered by the President for that district, and paid
for it, and had the receipt of the register and receiver, and that
it was afterwards sold under a valid judgment and execution
against Mitchell, and the title of said Mitchell came by due
course of conveyance to him, said Davis.
It will thus be seen, that, while Moore and Davis each assert
title to a different forty acres of the land covered by Bunn's
mortgage to his brother, neither of them claim under or in
privity with Bunn's title, but adversely to it.
But as both parties assert a right to the land under purchases
from the United States, and since their rights depend upon the
laws of the United States concerning the sale of its public
lands, there is a question of which this court must take cognizance.
As regards Moore's branch of the case, it seems to us free
from difficulty.
The evidence shows that the forty acres which he claims was
struck off to him at a cent or two over $2.50 per acre, at a pub
lio land sale, by the officers of the land district at Danville,
,ll., Nov. 15, 1855; that his right to it was contested before
the register and receiver by Bunn, who set up a prior pre-emption right. Those officers decided in favor of Bunn; whereupon
Moore appealed to the Commissioner of the General LandOffice, who reversed the decision of the register and receiver,
and on this decision a patent for the land was issued to Moore,
who has it now in his possession.
Some time after this patent was delivered to Moore, Bunn
-appealed from the decision of the commissioner to the Secretary
of the Interior, who reversed the commissioner's decision and
-confirmed that of the register and receiver, and directed the
patent to Moore to be recalled, and one to issue to Bunn. But
Moore refused to return his patent, and the Land Department
•did not venture to issue another for the same land; and so there
is no question but that Moore is vested now with the legal title

MOORE v. ROBBINS.

[Sup. Ct.

to 'the land, and was long before this suit was commenced.
Nor is there, in looking at the testimony taken before the register and receiver and that taken in the present suit, any just
foundation for Bunn's pre-emption claim. We will consider
this point more fully when we come to the Davis branch of
the case.
Taking this for granted, it follows that Moore, who has the
legal title, is in a suit in chancery decreed to give it up in
favor of one who has neither a legal nor an equitable title to
the land.
The Supreme Court of Illinois, before whom it was not pretended that Bunn had proved his right to a pre-emption, in
their opinion in this case place the decree by which they held
Bunn's title paramount to that of Moore on the ground that
to the officers of the Land Department, including the Secretary
of the Interior, the acts of Congress bad confided the determination of this class of cases; and the decision of the secretary
in favor of Bunn, being the latest and the final authoritative decision of the tribunal having jurisdiction of the contest, the courts
are bound by it, and must give effect to it. Robbins v. Bunn,
54 11. 48.
Without now inquiring into the nature and extent of the
doctrine referred to by the Illinois court, it is very clear to
us that it has no application to Moore's case. While conceding for the present, to the fullest extent, that when there is a
question of contested right between private parties to receive
from the United States a patent for any part of the public
land, it belongs to the head of the Land Department to decide
that question, it is equally clear that when the patent has been
awarded to one of the contestants, and has been issued, delivered, and accepted, all right to control the title or to decide on
the right to the title has passed from the land-office. Not only
has it passed from the land-office, but it has passed from the
Executive Department of the government. A moment's consideration will show that this must, in the nature of things, be
so. We are speaking now of a case in which the officers of the
department have acted within the scope of their authority.
The offices of register and receiver and commissioner are created
mainly for the purpose of supervising the sales of the public

Oct. 1877.]

ZOORE V. ROBBINS.

lands; and it is a part of their daily business to decide when a
party has by purchase, by pre-emption, or by any other recognized mode, established a right to receive from the government
a title to any part of the public domain. This decision is subject to an appeal to the secretary, if taken in time. But if no
such appeal be taken, and the patent issued under the seal of
the United States, and signed by the President, is delivered to
and accepted by the party, the title of the government passes
with this delivery. With the title passes away all authority
or control of the Executive Department over the land, and over
the title which it has conveyed. It would be as reasonable to
hold that any private owner of land who has conveyed it to
another can, of his own volition, recall, cancel, or annul the
instrument which he has made and delivered. If fraud, mistake, error, or wrong has been done, the courts of justice present
the only remedy. These courts are as open to the United States
to sue for the cancellation of the deed or recouveyance of the
land as to individuals; and if the government is the party injured, this is the proper course.
"A patent," says the court in United States v. Stone (2
Wall. 525), "is the highest evidence of title, and is conclusive
as against the government and all claiming under junior patents
or titles, until it is set aside or annulled by some judicial tribunal. In England, this was originally done by scirefacias;but a
bill in chancery is found a more convenient remedy." See also
ffughes v. United States, 4 Wall. 232; s. C. 11 How.552.
If an individual setting up claim to* the land has been injured, lie may, under circumstances presently to be considered,
have his remedy against the party who has wrongfully obtained
the title which should have gone to him.
But in all this there is no place for the further control of the
Executive Department over the title. The functions of that
department necessarily cease when the title has passed from the
government. And the title does so pass in every instance
where, under the decisions of the officers having authoity in
the matter, a conveyance, generally called a patent, has been
signed by the President, and sealed, and delivered to and accepted by the grantee. It is a matter of course that, after this
is done, neither the secretary nor any other executive officer

MOORE v. ROBBINS.

LSup. Ct-

can entertain an appeal. He is absolutely without authority.
If this were not so, the titles derived from the United States,
instead of being the safe and assured evidence of ownership
which they are generally supposed to be, would be always
subject to the fluctuating, and in many cases unreliable, action
of the land-office. No man could buy of the grantee with
safety, because he could only convey subject to the right of the
officers of the government to annul his title.
If such a power exists, when does it cease? There is no
statute of limitations against the government; and if this right
to reconsider and annul a patent after it has once become perfect exists in the Executive Department, it can be exercised at
any time, however remote. It is needless to pursue the subject
further. The existence of any such power in the Land Department is utterly inconsistent with the universal principle on
which the right of private property is founded.
The order of the Secretary of the Interior, therefore, in
Moore's case, was made without authority, and is utterly void,
and he has a title perfect both at law and in equity.
The question presented by the forty acres claimed by Davis
is a very different one. Here, although the government has
twice sold the land to different persons and received the money,
it has issued no patent to either, and the legal title remains in the
United States. It is not denied, however, that to one or the other
of the parties now before the court this title equitably belongs;
and it is the purpose of the present suit to decide that question.
The evidence shows that on the same day that Moore bought
at the public land sale the forty acres we have just been considering, Mitchell bought in like manner the forty acres now
claimed by Davis; to wit, Nov. 15, 1855. He paid the sum
at which it was struck off to him at public outcry, and received
the usual certificate of purchase from the register and receiver.
On the twentieth day of February, 1856, more than three
months after Mitchell's purchase, Thomas I. Bunn appeared
before the same register and receiver, and asserted a right, by
reason of a pre-emption commenced on the eighth day of November, 1855, to pay for the south half of the south-west quarter
and the south half of the south-east quarter of section 27, which
includes both the land of Moore and Davis in controversy in

Oct. 1877.]

MOORE V. ROBBINS.

this suit, and to receive their certificates of purchase. They
accepted his money and granted his-certificate. A contest between Bunn on the one side, and Moore and Mitchell on the
other, as to whether Bunn had made the necessary settlement,
was decided by those officers in favor of Bunn; and on appeal,
as we have already shown, to the commissioner, this was reversed, and finally the Secretary of the Interior, reversing the
commissioner, decided in favor of Bunn. But no patent was
issued to Mitchell after the commissioner's decision, as there
was to Moore; and the secretary, therefore, had the authority,
undoubtedly, to decide finally for the Land Department who
was entitled to the patent. And, though no patent has been
iszued, that decision remains the authoritative judgment of the
department as to Who has the equitable right to the land.
The Supreme Court of Illinois, in their opinion in this case,
,-ome to the conclusion that this final decision of the secretary
is not only conclusive on the department, but that it also excludes all inquiry by courts of justice into the right of the matter between the parties.
The whole question, however, has been since that time very
fully reviewed and considered by this court in J"ohnson v. Towsley, 1:3 Wall. 72. The doctrine announced in that case, and
repeated in several cases since, is this: That the decision of the officers of the Land Department,
made within the scope of their authority on questions of this
kind, is in general conclusive everywhere, except when reconsidered by way of appeal within that department; and that as
to the facts on which their decision is based, in the absence of
fraud or mistake, that decision is conclusive even in courts of
justice, when the title afterwards comes in question. But"that
in this class of cases, as in all others, there exists in the courts
of equity the jurisdiction to correct mistakes, to relieve against
frauds and impositions, and in cases where it is clear that those
officers have, by a mistake of the law, given to one man the
land which on the undisputed facts belonged to another, to
give appropriate relief.
In the recent case of Shepley et al. v. Cowan et al. (91 U. S.
340), the doctrine is thus aptly stated by Mr. Justice Field:
" The officers of the Land Department are specially designated

MOORE v. ROBBINS.

[Sup. Ot-

by law to receive, consider, and pass upon proofs presented
with respect to settlements upon the public lands, with a view
to secure rights of pre-emption. If they err in the construction.
of the law applicable to any case, or if fraud is practised upon
them, or they themselves are chargeable with fraudulent practices, their rulings may be reviewed and annulled by the courts
when a controversy arises between private parties founded upon
their decisions; but, for mere errors of judgment upon the weight
of evidence in a contested case before them, the only remedy is
by appeal from one officer to another of the department."
Applying to the case before us these principles, which are so
well established and so well understood in this court as to need
no further argument, we are of opinion, if we take as proved
the sufficiency of the occupation and improvement of Bunn as
of the date which he alleged, his claim is fatally defective in
another respect in which the officers of the Land Department
were mistaken as to the law which governed tle rights of the
parties, or entirely overlooked it.
In the recent case of Atherton v. Fowler (supra, p. 513), we had
occasion to review the general policy and course of the government in disposing of the public lands, and we stated that it had
formerly been, if it is not now, a rule of primary importance to
secure to the government the highest price which the land would
bring by offering it publicly at competitive sales, before a right
to any part of it could be established by private sale or by preemption. In the enforcement of this policy, the act of Sept.
14, 1841, which for the first time established the general principle of pre-emption, and which has remained the basis of that
right to this day, while it allowed persons to make settlements
on the public lands as soon as the surveys were completed and
filed in the local offices, affixed to such a settlement two conditions as affecting the right to a pre-emption. One of these was
that the settler should give notice to the land-office of the district, within thirty days after settlement, of his intention to
exercise the right of pre-emption, and the other we will give in
the language of the fourteenth section of that act:"This act shall not delay the sale of any of the public lands of the
United States beyond the time which has been or may be appointed
by the proclamation of the President, nor shall any of the provi-

-Oet. 1877.]

v. ROBBINS.
c 8oOp0RE

sions of this act be available to any person who shall fail to make
the proof of payment and file the affidavit required, before the commencement of the sale afloresaid." 5 Stat. 457.
There can be no misconstruction of this provision, nor any
doubt that it was the intention of Congress that none of the
liberal provisions of that act should stand in the way of a sale at
auction of any of the public lands of a given district where the
purchase had not been completed by the payment of the price
before the commencement of the sales ordered by the President's proclamation. We do not decide, because we have not
found it necessary to do so, whether this provision is applicable
under all the pre-emption laws passed since the act of 1841,
though part of it is found in the Revised Statutes, sect. 2282,
as part of the existing law. But we have so far examined all
those laws enacted prior to November, 1855, the date of Mitchell's purchase, as to feel sure it was in full operation at that
time. The act of March 3, 1853, extending the right of preemption to the alternate sections, which the government policy
reserved in its numerous grants to railroads and other works
of internal improvement, required the pre-emptor to pay for
them at $2.50 per acre, before they should be offered for sale at
public auction. 10 Stat. 244. This was only two years and a
half before these lands were sold to Mitchell, and they were
parts of an alternate section reserved in a railroad grant. That
statute, in its terms, was limited to persons who had already settled on such alternate sections, and it may be doubted whether
any right of pre-emption by a settlement made afterwards
existed under the law. But it is unnecessary to decide that
point, as it is beyond dispute that it required in any event that
the nmoney should be paid before the land was offered for sale
at public auction.
The record of this case shows that, while Bunn's pre-emption
claim comes directly within the provision of both statutes, they
were utterly disregarded in the decision of the Secretary of ther
Interior, on which alone his case has any foundation.
We iave no evidence in this record at what time the President's proclamation was issued, or when the sales under it
began at -which Mitchell purchased. These proclamations ara
not published in the statutes as public laws, and this one is not

MOORE

v.

ROBBINS.

[Sup. Or.

mentioned in the record. But we know that the public lands
are never offered at public auction until after a proclamation
fixing the day when and the place where the sales begin. The
record shows that both Moore and Mitchell bought and paid
for the respective forty-acre pieces now in contest, at public
auction. That they were struck off to them a few cents in
price above the minimum of $2.50, below which these alternate
sections could not be sold, and that this was on the fifteenth day
of November, 1855. These public sales were going on then on
that day, and how much longer is not known, but it might
have been a week, or two weeks, as these sales often continue
open longer than that.
Bunn states in his application, made three months after this,
that his settlement began on the 8th of November, 1855. It is
not apparent from this record that he ever gave the notice of
his intention to pre-empt the land, by filing what is called a
declaration of that intention in the land-office. There is a
copy of such a declaration in the record accompanying the
affidavit of settlement, cultivation, and qualification required
of a pre-emptor, which last paper was made and sworn to Feb.
20, 1856, when he proved up his claim, and paid for and received his certificate. There is nothing to show when the
declaration of intention was filed in the office.
Waiving this, however, which is a little obscure in the
record, it is very clear that Bunn "failed to make proof of payment, and failed to file the affidavit of settlement required,
before the commencement of the sale " at which Mitchell
bought. The statute declares that none of the provisions of the
act shall be available to any person who fails to do this. The
affidavit and payment of Bunn were made three months after the
land sales had commenced, and after these lands had been sold.
The section also declares that the act shall not delay the
sale of any public land beyond the time which has been or may
be appointed by the proclamation of the President. To refuse
Mitchell's bid on account of any supposed settlement, even if it
had been brought to the attention of the officers, would have
been to delay the sale beyond the time appointed, and would,
therefore, have been in violation of the very statute under
which Bunn asserts his right.

Oct. 1877.]

NATIONAL BANK V. WARREN.

Whatever Bunn may have done on the 8th of November,
and up to the 15th of that month, in the way of occupation,
settlement, improvement, and even notice, could not withdraw
the land from sale at public auction, unless he had also paid or
offered to pay the price before the sales commenced. "
It seems quite probable that such attempt at settlement as
he did make was made while the land sales were going on, or a
few days before they began, with the purpose of preventing the
sale, in ignorance of the provision of the statute which made
such attempt ineffectual.
At all events, we are entirely satisfied that the lands in controversy were subject to sale at public auction at the time
Moore and Mitchell bid for and bought them; that the sale so
made was by law a valid one, vesting in them the equitable
title, with right to receive the patents; and that the subsequent
proceedings of Bunn to enter the land as a pre-emptor were
unlawful and void.
It was the duty of the court in Illinois, sitting as a court of
equity, to have declared that the mortgage made by Bunn, so
far as these lands are concerned, created no lien on them, because he had no right, legal or equitable, to them.
The decree of the Supreme Court of that State must be
reversed, and the cause remanded to that court for further
proceedings in accordance with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.

NATIOTAL BAxrn

v. WAutEN.

The mere non-resistance of a debtor to judicial proceedings in which a judgment
was rendered against him, when the debt was due and there was no valid
defence to it, is not the suffering and giving a preference under the Bankrupt Act; and the judgment is not avoided by the facts, that he does not
file the petition in bankruptcy, and that his insolvency was known to the
creditor

APP-AL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
S:uthern District of New York.
The Tenth National Bank of New York, having an undis

