Oct. 1877.]

.TENNESSEE

v. SNEED.

leges are always to be construed most strongly against the donee,
and in favor of the public We think the Supreme Court of
Illinois construed the grant liberally in this case, when it de4dared "the fair construction" to be, that it was designed the
-orporation should have the use of the bridge and dyke, with the
right to take tolls thereon, until the period fixed for the determination of its existence; and we think that that period cannot
be extended byimplication beyond the prescribed term of twenty.
five years, except for the purposes contained in the charter.
If the company had been authorized to construct the dyke
and bridge, and had done so; or if it had been authorized to
acquire a proprietary interest in the property in fee, and had
acquired such interest, -the case would have had a different as
pect. Then the question would have been, whether the State
could have taken back the property without just compensation.
But it does not arise in this case. The only question here is,
whether, in resuming the possession of the bridge and dyke,
by subjecting them to the control and management of the city
of East St. Louis, it has passed a law impairing the obligation of
a contract. We think it has not.
Judgment affirmed.

TENNESSEE v. SNEED.
1. The legislature of a State does not impair the obligation of a contract by
enlarging, limiting, or altering the modes of proceeding for enforcing it, provided that the remedy be not withheld, nor embarrassed with conditions and
restrictions which seriously impair the value of the right.
2. The act of the legislature of Tennessee, providing that there shall be no other
remedy in any case of the collection of revenue, or attempt to collect revenue illegally, or attempt to collect revenue in funds only receivable by a
collector of taxes under the law, the same being other or different funds
than such as the tax-payer may tender or claim the right to pay, than by
paying the tax under protest, and within thirty days thereafter suing the
collector to recover it, the judgment, if for the tax-payer, to be paid in
preference to other claims on the treasury, does not leave a party without an adequate remedy for asserting his right to pay his Stat taxes in
certain bills, made receivable therefor under the charter granted to the
Bank of Tennessee in the year 1838, but which bills the collector refused to
accept.

TENNESSEE V. SNEED.

[Sup. Ot.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. Robert ilifePhail Smith and Mr. Philip Phillips for the
plaintiff in error.
Xr. Joseph B. Heiskell, Attorney-General of Tennessee, contra.
MR. JusTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.

In the month of March, 1874, Bloomstein, the relator, presented his petition to the State Circuit Court sitting at Nashville, Tenn., in which he stated that he was the owner of certain
real and personal estate, which was assessed for State taxes in
the year 1872 to the amount of $182.60; that he tendered to
Sneed, who was collector of taxes for Davidson County, in payment of said taxes, the amount thereof in "funds receivable
by law for such purposes;" that the collector refused to receive
the same, but issued a warrant to his deputy to collect the
amount claimed; that he has ever since been ready to make
such payment, and now brings said funds into court to abide
the action with respect thereto; that said funds consist of $2.60
in legal-tender currency of the United States, and $130 in bills
of the Bank of Tennessee, which were issued subsequently to
May 6, 1861, although some of them bear an earlier date; that
the bills tendered were originally made payable in gold or silver
coin, and were embraced within the twelfth section of the act
chartering said bank. He prayed for an alternative writ of
mandamus to compel the collector to receive the said bills in
payment of such taxes, or to show cause to the contrary.
To this writ the defendant, in answer, showed, among others,
the following causes why the writ should not issue: 1. That the suit is expressly prohibited by the act of the
General Assembly of the State passed Feb. 21, 1878, e. 18, sect. 2.
2. That it is prohibited by the act (c. 44) of the same year.
3. That the receipt of such bank-notes in payment of taxes was
prohibited by the Constitution of the State of Tennessee of
1865. 4. That no such action lay at common law to enforce
action by an officer in defiance of the legislative command.
8. That the notes were issued in aid of the late war against the
United States.
The petition having been dismissed, the case was thereupon

Oct. 1877.]

TENNESSEE V. SNEED.

oaken to the Supreme Court of the State. On the 26th of
May, 1875, a judgment of affirmance was rendered.
It is from this judgment that the writ of error to this court
is brought.
The bank in question was chartered in the year 1838, and
its charter contained, as its twelfth section, the following provision :
"SEcT. 12. -Be it enacted, that the bills or notes of the said
corporation originally made payable, or which shall have become
payable, on demand, in gold or silver coin, shall be receivable at the
treasury, and by all tax-collectors and other public officers, in all
payments for taxes or other moneys due the State."

The judgment of the Supreme Court declared that the present proceeding was, virtually, a suit against the State, and that
it was not maintainable prior to the act of 1855, which act was
carried into the Code as sect. 2807. By this act it was provided that suits might be brought against the State "under the
same rules and regulations that govern actions between private
persons," and that process commencing the same might be
served upon the attorneys-general of the several districts. This
act was repealed in 1865, many years before the commencement
of this proceeding, and again in 1873, by the acts presently to
be mentioned. We have in the present action a decision of the
Supreme Court of the State upon its own statutes and modes
of proceeding, to the effect, 1st, that a writ of mandamus, in a
case like the present, is a proceeding against the State; and,
2d, that it cannot be sustained in this case.
On the 28th of February, 1873, the legislature of Tennessee
enacted "that no court has, or shall hereafter have, any power,
jurisdiction, or authority to entertain any suit against the State,
or against any officer of the State, acting by authority of the
State, with a view to reach the State, its treasury funds or
property; and all such suits now pending, or hereafter brought,
shall be dismissed as to the State or such officer, on motion,
plea, or demurrer of the law officer of the State, or counsel
employed by the State."
On the 21st of March, 1873, it enacted "that in all cases in
which an officer, charged by law with the collection of revenue

TENNESSEE v. SNEED.

rSup. Ot.

due the State, shall institute any proceeding, or take any steps
for the collection of the same, alleged or claimed to be due by
said officer from any citizen, the party against whom the proceeding or step is taken shall, if he conceives the same to be
unjust or illegal, or against any statute or clause of the Constitution of the State, pay the same under protest; and, upon his
making said payment, the officer or collector shall pay such
revenue into the State treasury, giving notice at the tifne of
payment to the comptroller that the same was paid under
protest; and the party paying said revenue may, at any time
within thirty days after making said payment, and not longer
thereafter, sue the said officer having collected said sum, for
the recovery thereof. And the same may be tried in any court
having the jurisdiction of the amount and parties; and, if it be
determined that the same was wrongfully collected, as not
being due from said party to the State, for any reason going to
the merits of the same, then, the court trying the case may
certify of record that the same was wrongfully paid and ought
to be refunded; and thereupon the comptroller shall issue his
warrant for the same, which shall be paid in preference to
other claims on the treasury."
Sect. 2 of the act provides "that there shall be no other
remedy, in any case of the collection of revenue, or attempt to
collect revenue illegally, or attempt to collect revenue in funds
only receivable by said officer under the law, the same being
other or different funds than such as the tax-payer may tender,
or claim the right to pay, than that above provided; and no
writ for the prevention of the collection of any revenue claimed,
or to hinder or delay the collection of the same, shall in any
wise issue, either injunction, supersedeas, prohibition, or any
other writ or process whatever; but in all cases in which, for
any reason, any person shall claim that the tax so collected
was wrongfully or illegally collected, the remedy for said party
shall be as above provided, and in no other manner."
The act of March 25, 1873, provides "that the several taxcollectors shall receive, in discharge of the taxes and other dues
to the State, bank-notes of the Bank of Tennessee, known as
.he old issue, warrants on the treasury legally outstanding,
gold, silver, national bank-notes, and nothing else."

Oct. 1877.]

OTENNESSEE V. SNEED.

It is said that the acts of 1873, to which reference is made,
are laws impairing the obligation of the contract contained in
the twelfth section of the bank charter. This is done, it is said,
not by a direct infraction of the obligation, but by placing such
impediments and obstructions in the way of its enforcement, by
so impairing the remedies, as practically to render the obligation of no value. This is the only point in the case involving
a question of Federal jurisprudence, and the only one that it is
necessary for us to consider. The question discussed by Mr.
Justice Swayne, in Walker v. Thitehead (16 Wall. 814), of the
preservation of the laws in existence at the time of the making
of the contract, is not before us. The claim is of a subsequent
injury to the contract.
There are, no doubt, many cases holding that the remedy
may be so much impaired as to affect the obligation of the
contract. In Webster &5Mann v. Bose (6 Heisk. (Tenn.) 98),
a stay-law was decided to be unconstitutional. In Blair v.
Williams (4 Litt. (Ky.) 34), the same was held of a law extending the time of a replevin beyond that in existence when the
contract was made.
In iMalony v. Fortune (14 Iowa, 417), and in Cargill v. Power
(1 Mich. 869), an extension of time for the redemption of a preexisting mortgage was held to be unconstitutional.
In Willard v. Longstreet (2 Dougl. (Mich.) 172), a law forbidding the sale of property on execution for less than two-thirds
of its appraised value was held to be unconstitutional as to
pre-existing contracts.
In Walker v. Whitehead (supra), it is said, "Nothing is more
material to the obligation of a contract than the means of its
enforcement. The ideas of validity and remedy are inseparable, and both are parts of the obligation which is guaranteed
by the Constitution against impairment."
These are the authorities quoted to sustain the plaintiff's
theory, and the list might easily be enlarged.
On the other hand, our own reports and those of the States
are full of cases holding that the legislature may alter and modify the remedy to enforce a contract without impairing its obligation. The case of Sturges v. Crowninshlield (4 Wheat. 122),
is among the first of the class where the question arose upon the

TENNESSEE V. SNEED.

[Sup. Ct°

abolition of the right of imprisonment of the debtor as a means
of compelling payment of his debt. ifason v. Haile (12 Wheat.
370) was a case of the same class. Mr. Justice Thompson says:
"Imprisonment of the debtor . . . may be allowed as a means
of inducing him to perform his contract; but a State may refuse
to inflict this punishment, . . . and leave the contract in full
force. Imprisonment is no part of the contract, and simply to
release the prisoner does not impair its obligation."
On the general subject, and for numerous illustrations, reference is made to the following cases, which it is not necessary to
examine in detail: Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How. 311; Von Hoff
man v. City of Quincy, 4 Wall. 535; Bruce v. Sckuyler et al.,
9 Ill. 221, in each of which a large number of cases is collected.
If a particular form of proceeding is prohibited, and another
is left or is provided which affords an effective and reasonable
mode of enforcing the right, the obligation of the contract is
not impaired. Bronson v. Kinzie, supra; 1untzhnger v. Brock,
3 Grant's Cases (Pa.), 243; Evans v. 111ontgonmery, 4 Watts &
S. (Pa.) 218; Read v. Frankfort Bank, 23 Me. 318.
The rule seems to be that in modes of proceeding and of
forms to enforce the contract the legislature has the control,
and may enlarge, limit, or alter them, provided that it does not
deny a remedy, or so embarrass it with conditions and restrictions as seriously to impair the value of the right. Bronson v.
Kinzie, supra.
If we assume that prior to 1873 the relator had authority to
prosecute his claim against the State by mandamus, and that
by the statutes of that year the further use of that form was
prohibited to him, the question remains, whether an effectual
remedy was left to him or provided for him. We think the
regulation of the statute gave him an abundant means of enforcing such right as he possessed. It provided that he might
pay his claim to the collector under protest, giving notice
thereof to the comptroller of the treasury; that at any time
within thirty days thereafter he might sue the officer making
the collection; that the case should be tried by any court having jurisdiction, and, if found in favor of the plaintiff on the
merits, the court should certify that the same was wrongfully

Oct. 1877.]

TENNESSEE v. SNEED.

paid and ought to be refunded, and the comptroller should
thereupon issue his warrant therefor, which should be paid in
preference to other claims on the treasury.
This remedy is simple and effective. A suit at law to recover
money unlawfully exacted is as speedy, as easily tried, and less
complicated than a proceeding by mandamus. Every attorney
knows how to carry on the former, while many would be embarrassed by the forms of the latter. Provision is also made
for prompt payment of the amount by the State, if judgment is
rendered against the officer on the merits.
We are not cited to any statutes authorizing suits to be
brought against a State directly, and we know of none. In
a special and limited class of cases, the United States permits
itself to be sued in the Court of Claims; but such is not the
general rule. In revenue cases, whether arising upon its internal revenue laws or those providing for the collection of duties
upon foreign imports, it adopts the rule prescribed by the
State of Tennessee. It requires the contestant to pay the
amount as fixed by the government, and gives him power to,
sue the collector, and in such suit to test the legality of the
tax. There is nothing illegal or even harsh in this. It is a wise
and reasonable precaution for the security of the government.
No government could exist that permitted the collection of it&
revenues to be delayed by every litigious man or every embarrassed man, to whom delay was more important than the
payment of costs.
We think there is no ground for the assertion that a speedy
and effective remedy is not provided to enforce the claim set
up by the plaintiff. This is the only question properly before
us, and we are of the opinion that it presents no ground for
reversing the judgment of the court below.
The other important questions discussed in the opinion of the
court below and argued by the counsel it is not necessary here
to examine; they do not arise at this time.
Judgment affirmed.

