Oct. 1877.]

ARTHUR V. RHEIMUS.

component. In any aspect, it does not embrace the goods in
question.
We think the judge erred in ruling in favor of the importer,
and that there must be a new trial.
Judgment reversed and new trial ordered.

_ARTHUR V. RHEniS.
L The rule that an article, dutiable by its specific designation, will not be
affected by the general words of the same or another statute, which would
otherwise embrace it, applies as well to statutes reducing duties as to those
increasing them.
2. As the twelfth section of the act of June 30, 1864 (13 Stat. 213), imposes a
duty of fifty per cent ad valorem upon artificial flowers eo nomine, they are
not subject to the deduction of ten per cent allowed by the second section
of the act of June 6, 1872 (17 id. 231), "on all manufactures of cotton of
which cotton is the component part of chief value."
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
In 1874, Rheims, the plaintiff below, imported into the port
of New York a quantity of artificial flowers, composed of iron,
paper, wire, and cotton, and on which Arthur, the collector,
imposed, under the twelfth section of the act of June 30, 1864
(13 Stat. 213), a duty of fifty per cent ad valorem.
Rheims claimed that, under the second section of the act of
June 6, 1872 (17 Stat. 231), the merchandise was liable only
to ninety per cent of the duty imposed by the act of June 30,
1864; but having, under protest, paid the duty imposed by the
collector, brought this suit to recover the excess.
Under the instructions of the court below, the jury found
that the importer was entitled to the deduction. From the
judgment rendered upon the verdict, this writ of error is
brought.
Mr. Assistant-Attorney-GeneralSmith for the plaintiff in error.
Mr.Stephen G. Clarke, contra.
JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The question for decision in this case is, whether the defend.

MiR.

ARTHUR V. RHEIMS.

[.Sup. Or.

ant in error is entitled to the deduction of ten per cent allowed
by the act of June 6, 1872.
Under the act of 1864, the duty of fifty per cent was imposed
on "artificial and ornamental feathers and flowers, or parts
thereof, of whatever material composed, not otherwise provided
for, beads and bead ornaments." 13 Stat. 213. As no other
provision was made, the goods were presumably subject to this
duty.
The act of June 6, 1872 (17 id. 231), provides, in its second
section, as follows: "That on and after the 1st of August, 1872, in lieu of the duties
imposed by law on the articles in this section enumerated, there
shall be levied, collected, and paid on the goods, wares, and merchandise in this section enumerated and provided for, imported from
foreign countries, ninety per cent of the several duties and rates .f
duties now imposed by law on said articles severally, it being th6
intent of this section to reduce existing duties on such articles ten
per cent of such duties; that is to say, on all manufactures of cotton
of which cotton is the component part of chief value; ...on all
iron and steel, and all manufactures of iron and steel of which such
metals, or either of them, shall be the component part of chief
value, excepting cotton machinery."
Many other articles are named.
The general words of the act of 1872, no doubt, are sufficiently
comprehensive to embrace the case before us. Artificial flowers
are a manufacture of which cotton is the chief component, and,
were that all, would be entitled to the deduction asked for.
But it is true, also, that they are dutiable under the law of
1864, not as a manufacture of cotton, but specifically, eo nomine,
as artificial flowers. It has been held in many cases, -as that
of "almonds and dried fruits," the "canary birds," and at the
present term, in the case of "thread laces" and of "chocolate,"
-that, when an article is intended to be made dutiable by its
specific designation, it will not be affected by the general
words of the same or another statute, which would otherwise
embrace it.
This rule applies both to statutes reducing and to statutes
increasing duties. Giving it such application here, we must
hold that "artificial flowers" are not entitled to be classed as

Oct. 1877.]

ARTHUR

v. GODDARD.

a manufacture'of cotton which is entitled to the reduction
provided for by act of 1872.
The ruling in this respect was erroneous, and the judgment
must be reversed; and it is
So ordered

ARTHUR

v.

GODDARD.

The plaintiffs below entered an importation of goods upon the following Invoice :Bought ....
...................
.
Discount for cash on gross amount, two per cent, 8,766.60 .....

Fr's

8,670.25
175.30

Fr's
Terms cash. Ifnotpaid, interestto be added at the ratevf six per cent.

8,494.95

As cash bad not been paid, the two per cent discount was disallowed by the
appraisers. The collector thereupon fxed the value of the goods as of the
invoice price at 8,670.25 francs, and exacted duty thereon, although the actual
market value of the goods in the country of exportation was 8,494.95 francs.

Hdd,that the latter sum was also the invoice value, and that the duty on
the two per cent was improperly exacted.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
In 1874, Goddard & Brother imported certain goods, of which
the invoice, after giving the details of weight, &c., was as follows, viz.: Bought .......
................
Fr's 8,670.25
Discount for cash on gross amount, two per cent, 8,766.60 175.30
Terms cash.
per cent.

Fr's 8,494.95
If not paid, interest to be added at the rate of six

The importers entered the goods at the net price stated in
the invoice, - francs, 8,494.95, - and declared on the entry
as follows: "Cash not paid on these goods, but are passed to
our account, and are subject to interest at six per cent per
annum.
The case finds, as matter of fact, that 8,494.95 francs was the
actual market value of the goods at the time of their exportation, in the principal market of the country from which they
vOL. V1.

10

