SAN ANTONIO v. MEHAFFY.

[Sup. Ct.

grantor must follow the solemnities of the law of the place in
which the property lies, and from which it is impossible to remove it; for, though he be subject with respect to his person to
the lex domicilii, that law can have no authority over property
which has its fixed seat in another political jurisdiction, and
which cannot be tried but before the courts and according to
the laws where it is situated.
Two fatal defects, therefore, exist in the supposed title of
the sons to the properties in c.ontroversy, as shown by the
most conclusive evidence: 1. That the subject-matter of the
respective sales was never delivered to the supposed grantees,
as required by the lex loci rei site. 2. That neitler of the
supposed acts of sale was ever lawfully registered in the parish wlihre the property is situated, from which it follows, in
case either of the alleged defects is shown, that the decree
of condemnation vested the title to the same in the United
States.
Apply those rules to the case before the court, and it is clear
that the judgment in the first case should be affirmed, and that
the judgment in the second case should be reversed.

SAN ANTONIO V. MEHAFFY.
1. The twelfth section of the act of the legislature of Texas, entitled "An Act
to incorporate the San Antonio Railroad Company," which authorizes the
city of San Antonio to subscribe for the stock of said company, and issue
bonds to pay for the same, is not repugnant to the provision of the State
Constitution of 1845, requiring that "every law enacted by the legislature
shall contain but one object, and that shall be expressed in the title."
2. Certain bonds or securities issued by the city of San Antonio, March 1, 1852,
recite that "this debt is authorized by a vote of the electors of the city of
San Antonio, taken in accordance with the provisions of an act to incorporate the San Antonio and Mexican Gulf Railroad Company, approved Sept.
6, 1850," &c. Held, that the city is estopped from denying the verity of the
recital, and that the bonds or securities are valid in the hands of a ,ona fide
purchaser for value before maturity.
8. The fact that tie principal securities delivered to that company were not
sealed is imnmat-rial, because time act under which they were i-sued expressly
authorized those charged with the duty of making the subscription to "issue
bonds bearing interest, or otherwise pledge the faith of the city."

,dot. 1877.]

SAN ANTONIO v. MEHAPFY.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

.31r. Thomas J. Durant for the plaintiff in error.
.r.

T. A. Lambert, contra.

MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The cause of action in this case is certain "bonds," as they
are termed, and coupons, issued by the city of San Antonio in
payment for stock of the San Antonio and Mexican Gulf Railroad Company, subscribed for by the city.
Tli action is one of a class that has been very numerous in
this court for several years past. Ahnost every question that
can arise in such litigation has been settled in this forum by
repeated adjudications. In the present case, our remarks will
be confined to the points to which our attention has been called
by the counsel for the city. No fulness of discussion is necessary.
The twelfth section of the act approved Sept. 5, 1850, entitled
"An Act to incorporate the San Antonio Railroad Company,"
authorized the city to take the stock "and issue bonds bearing
interest, or otherwise to pledge the faith of said city,

.

.

.

to

pay for the same."
It was made a condition of the subscription that two-thirds
of the qualified electors of the city should vote in favor of it.
The eighteenth section of the act declared that if the work
was not commenced within one year from the 1st of November,
1850, and if at least twenty miles of the road were not in
running order within three years from its commencement, the
charter should be void. An act, approved Feb. 14, 1852, extended the time for commencing the work to two years from
the date of the act, and required ten miles to he finished within
three years. Subsequent acts bearing upon this subject were
passed, but it is not deemed necessary particularly to advert to
them.

An election was held pursuant to the first-named act. All
the votes cast but three were in favor of the subscription. It
was thereupon made, and the securities were delivered to the
company in payment. Each of the bonds, so called, had on its

SAN ANTONIO V. MEHAFFY.

[Sup. OCL

race the following recital: "This debt is authorized by a vote
of the electors of the city of San Antonio, taken in accordance
with the provisions of an act to incorporate the San Antonio
and Mexican Gulf Railroad Company, approved Sept. 5, 1850.
Entered and recorded in the office of the city treasurer, and is
transferable on delivery. City Hall, City of Antonio, March 1,
1852." The road was not built, and the enterprise has been
abandoned.
The grant of the power given to the city was consistent with
the Constitution of the State. San Antonio v. Gould, 84 Tex.
49; Same v. Jones, 28 id. 19.
The holder of commercial paper, in the absence of proof to
the contrary, is presumed to have taken it underdue for a valuable consideration, and without notice of any objection to which
it was liable. 2 Pars. Bills and Notes, 9; Pinkerton v. Bailey,
8 Wend. (N. Y.) 600.
There is certainly nothing in the record which shows that
such is not the position of the defendant in error.
This shuts the door, as matter of law, to all inquiry touching
the regularity of the proceedings of the officers charged with
the duty of subscribing and making payment in the way prescribed. The rule in such cases is, that if the municipality
could have had power under any circumstances to issue the
securities, the bona fide holder has a right to presume they
were issued under the circumstances which give the authority, and they are no more liable to be impeached in his hands
for any infirmity than any other commercial paper. Supervisors v. Schenck, 5 Wall. 772; San Antonio v. Lane, 32 Tex.
405.
We have, however, looked carefully into the record for light
as to the facts, and find that all the proceedings were in substantial conformity to the requirements of the law, and the
proof is clear that every thing was honestly done.
The city is estopped by the recital on the face of the securities to deny its verity. A bona fide purchaser had a right to
regard it as true, and was not bound to look further. Commissioners, &e. v. Aspinwall, 21 How. 539; ilie-yeer County v.
Hackett, 1 Wall. 83; Grand Chute v. TVinegar, 15 id. 855; San
Antonio v. Gould, supra.

Oct. 1877.]

SAN

A-NTONIO V. MEHAFFY.

315

The principal securities delivered to the company were not
bonds, because they were unsealed; but this is immaterial.
The twelfth section, under which they were issued, expressly
declared that those charged with the duty of subscribing "may
issue bonds bearing interest, or otherwise pledge the faith of
the city."
The securities issued were within the latter category. If
that clause were wanting, we should have no difficulty in holding
that the city was, under the circumstances, estopped from denying their validity. The doctrine of ultra vires, whether invoked
for or against a corporation, is not favored in the law. It should
never be applied where it will defeat the ends of justice, if such
a result can be avoided. Whitney Arms Co. v. Barlow et al.,
63 N. Y. 62.
The Constitution of Texas of 1845 provided that "everylaw
enacted by the legislature shall contain but one object, and that
shall be expressed in the title."
It is insisted that the twelfth section of the act of 1850 is in
conflict with this requirement, and is, therefore, void. This
identical question arose in San Antonio v. Lane, supra. It was
there unanimously held by the court that "when an act of the
legislature expresses in its title the object of the act, the title
embraces and expresses any lawful means to achieve the object,
thus fulfilling the constitutional injunction that every law shall
embrace but one object, and that shall be expressed in its title."
The objection was overruled.
In the City of San Antonio v. Could (supra), and in Gittings
v. San Antonio (47 id. 548), the same court, consisting of judges
other than those who sat in the first case, came to a different conclusion. The question may, therefore, be fairly considered as still
unsettled in the jurisprudence of the State. Under these circumstances, this court has always felt at liberty to follow the
guidance of its own judgment.
We think the ruling in the case first mentioned has on
its side the greater weight of reason and authority. We,
therefore, hold the section not to be obnoxious to the requirement of the Constitution, and that it is, therefore,
valid.
The refusal of the court below to grant a new trial involved

AMcGARRAHAN

V. MINING CO.

[Sup. Or.

only the exercise of its discretion, and cannot be made the
subjct of review by this court.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE. - In San Antonio v. B.--"q P-nr to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District o0 -ab, which was argued by Mr. Thomas J.
Durant for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Robert Sewell for the defendant in

error,

AIR.

JUSTICE SWAYNE,

in delivering the opinion of the court, remarked:

This case is in all respects substantially the same with that of San Antonio v.
ffehaffy, just decided. The opinion in that case is decisive of this.
Judgment affirmed.

McGARRAHAN v. MIN 1TG CO-MPAN-Y.
1. The statutory provisions prescribing the manner in which a patent of the
United States for land shall be executed are mandatory. No equivalent
for any of the required formalities is allowed, but each of the integral acts
to be performed is essential to the perfection and validity of such an, instrument. If, therefore, it is not actually countersigned by the recorder of the
General Land-Office in person, or, in his absence, by the principal clerk of
private land claims as acting recorder, it is not executed according to law,
and does not pass the title of the United States.
2. The record in the volumne kept for that purpose at the General Land-Office
at Washington, of a patent which has been executed in tle manner which
the law directs, is evidence of the same dignity and is subject to the same
defences as the patent itself. If the instrument, as the same appears of
record, was not so executed, and was therefore insufficient on its face to
transfer the title of the United States, the record raises no presumption
that a patent duly executed was delivered to and accepted by the grantee.
8 Te act of larch 3, 1843 (5 Stat. 627), in relation to exeniplifications of
records, does not dispense with the provisions of law touching the signing
and countersigning. The record, to prove a valid patent, must still show
that they were complied with. The names need not be fully inserted in
the record, but it must appear in some form that they were actually signed
to the patent when it was issued.
4. The failure to record a patent does not defeat the grant.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of California.
This was ejectment by William McGarrahan in the District
Court of the Twentieth Judicial District of California in and for
Santa Clara County, against the New Idria Mining Company,
to recover possession of certain lands in that State known as
the Rancho Panoche Grande. He claimed them under a patent
therefor which he alleged had been issued by the United States
SVicente P. Gomez, his grantor, under the act of Congress to

