INSURA.CE

Co. v.

BRUNE'S AbSIGNEE.

INS URANACE CoIPANY v. BRuNuE's AssIG

[Sup. Ct.

E.

1. The rule at law that the pendency of a former action between the same par.
ties for the same cause is pleadable in abatement to a second action, provided the actions be in courts of the same State, holds in equity.
2. The plea of a former suit pending in equity for the same cause in a foreign
jurisdiction will not abate an action at law in a domestic tribunal, or authorize an injunction against prosecuting such action.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
lir. Henry E. Davies and Mr. Edward 0. Hinckley for the
appellant. Mr. F. W. Brune and Mr. J. M. Harris,contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a bill by the Mutual Life Insurance Company of
New York for an injunction upon Horatio L. Whitridge, assignee of William H. Brune, enjoining him against further
prosecuting two actions at law which he had commenced in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maryland, against the complainant, upon two policies of insurance
issued by it, in the name of William H. Brune, the 18th of Jannary, 1872, on the life of John S. Barry; one for $20,000, and
the other for $5.000.
The material averments of the bill are the following: 1. That the complainant, a New York corporation, on the
11th of January, 1867, issued a policy of life insurance to
Rosalie C. Barry, wife of John S. Barry, for $20,000, on the
life of her husband; and on the 9th of December, 1870, issued
to her a second policy, on the same life, insuring $5,000.
2. That the premiums were regularly paid until December,
1871, and January, 1872.
3. That about the latter part of December, 1871, and the
beginning of January, 1872, an agreement was made between
Mrs. Barry, Mr. Bnrry, and Mr. Brune, for the assignment or
transfer of the policies to the latter, and that in pursuance of
the agreement, and in accordance with a mode of proceeding
before used by the complainant in cases of insurance on the lives
MR. JUSTICE STRONG

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE Co. v. BRuNe'S ASSIGNEE.

of married women, the policies were permitted, with the consent
of all parties interested, except the complainant, to lapse, that is to say, to become forfeited, - with the intent, however,
to have the same renewed or reissued in Brune's name.
4. That, as evidence of such intention, Brune (as whose
assignee Whitridge, the defendant, claimed) united with John S.
Barry in signing a paper called "a declaration to be made and
signed in case of issuing new policy after lapse," dated Dec. 16,
1871, referring to and adopting the original application made
by Mrs. Barry for insurance, dated Dec. 9, 1870, and signed by
her; that he also united with Mr. Barry in signing another
paper, dated Jan. 12, 1872, adopting Mrs. Barry's original
application for insurance, dated Jan. 11, 1867.
5. That Mr. Barry did not undergo a new medical examination; that no other applications were made for the two insurances (upon which the suits were brought) than those made
by Mrs. Barry in 1867 and 1870, and so, as aforesaid, adopted
by Mr. Brune; and that thereupon the two policies issued to
Airs. Barry were surrendered and cancelled.
6. That, at the time when the original policies issued to Mr.
Barry were cancelled, two others for the same amount, on the
life of the said John S. Barry, were substituted therefor: that
they were issued to William H. Brune with like premiums
and having the same numbers as those of the cancelled policies; differing only in the fact that the premiums were made
payable semi-annually, instead of annually as theretofore, and
that Brune paid up the premiums that had before fallen due
and that remained unpaid.
7. That in February, 1872, Brune assigned these policies to
Whitridge (Harris being now substituted as Brune's assignee
or trustee in place of Whitridge).
8. That John S. Barry died in March, 1872.
9. That shortly after, or about April 4, 1872, Mrs. Barry
filed, in the Supreme Court for the city and county of New
York, her bill of complaint against the complainant in this bill,
and against both Brune and Whitridge, in which she alleged
substantially what is hereinbefore set forth, and also complained that the novation of the policies, or the lapsing and
reissue as aforesaid. was without her consent; that it was done

INSURANCE Co. v. BRUNE'S ASSIGNEE.

[Sup. Ct

after her signing some paper by reason of certain persuasions
of her husband when he was embarrassed in business and disturbed in mind ; that she did not act voluntarily and freely;
that Brune acquired no rights under the said new policies, nor
did Whitridge by the assignment to him; and she prayed the
company might be enjoined against paying to Whitridge the
amounts due thereon.
The bill and proceedings in the New York case were filed,
and made a part of the present complainant's bill.
10. That, as appeared in those proceedings, pursuant to an
agreement of the parties and an order of the court, this complainant, the insurance company, deposited the sums named in
the two policies in a trust company, to the credit of the case;
and the court ordered that the complainant should be discharged, and that the action should be discontinued as to it.
11. That, notwithstanding the agreement and order and the
payment, Whitridge, the defendant, had afterwards, in September, 1872, brought two suits on the two new policies in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maryland, the same suits the prosecution of which the complainant
sought by this bill to have enjoined.
12. That the prosecution of these suits, if successful, would
result in compelling the complainant to pay the same policies
twice, and might give to Whitridge double payment.
Most of the material averments of this bill were admitted by
the answer. It averred, in addition, that the original policies
were assigned to Brune as collateral securities for loans Brune
had made tb Mr. Barry, and that the permitted lapse and the
issue of the new policies were intended only to make the assignment effective. It denied, however, that the new policies we e
in substitution for the policies surrendered, and asserted that
they were separate and new contracts. It admitted the execution of the agreement or stipulation in the New York case; but
alleged that it was without Brune's knowledge or consent, and
alleged also that it was not intended to surrender or affect in
any way the right of the defendant under the two policies issued
to Brune and assigned to him.
Such was the case when it came on for hearing; the parties
having agreed that Mrs. Barry's bill of complaint might be

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v. BRUNE'S ASSIGNEE.

read, as also the answers of Brune and Whitridge thereto, the
stipulation made in the case, the order of the court that the
company pay the amount of the policies, less the costs, into
court, a subsequent order abrogating the former and the stipulation, together with a pending appeal therefrom.
Upon this showing, the Circuit Court refused the injunction
asked for, and dismissed the complainant's bill. We agree
with the counsel for the appellee, that whether the Circuit
Court erred or not must be determined in view of the facts as
they appeared when the decision was made. But we do not
admit, as it is argued, that Mrs. Barry in her bill claimed only
what was assured to her by the original policies. She claimed
a decree against the insurers, that they should pay to her.
She asserted that the original policies had been surrendered
and cancelled, and she claimed that Brune and Whitridge were
asserting rights adverse to hers. She charged in effect that
the assignments of those policies she had made had been obtained from her by duress, through misrepresentation, and
without any present consideration. The surrender and reissue
tQ Brune concerted between him and Mr. Barry, the payment
of the premium of the substituted policies with Mrs. Barry's
dividends and money, the identity of the numbers of the new
policies with those of the old, and the fact that the stipulated
premiums were the same, adjusted according to the age of Mr.
Barry when the first policies were granted, and paid from the
times when under those policies they were due, -were set forth
as proofs that the substituted ones were only continuations of
the first insurance, and that in equity they were her property.
Neither Brune's nor Whitridge's answer, both of which were
in evidence, effectually controverted this. Brune's substantially admitted it. In his answer, he everywhere speaks of
himself as the assignee of the original policies, asserts Mrs.
Barry's assignments as the foundation of his right, alleges that
the polices were suffered to lapse and were surrendered, that
they might be renewed and continued for his benefit, and
alleges expressly that "the two policies issued in January,
1872, constituted the only claim on the said Mutual Life Insurance Company, on account of insurance on the life of the said
Barry, and that the plaintiff has no claim whatsoever to the

INSURANCE

Co. v.

BRUNE'S ASSIGNEE.

[Sup. Ct.

said policies, or either of them, or to the sums secured thereby,
until the indebtedness of the said Barry and of his firm, to secure
which the said policies were assigned as aforesaid, shall have
been fully paid and satisfied."
Thus the answer implies a clear
admission, that in equity Mrs. Barry is the owner of the new
policies, subject only to Brune's right (whatever it may be) to
hold them as a collateral security.
The case in the New York Supreme Court, therefore, involved
the same controversy as that exhibited in the two Maryland suits;
and the complainant here and Whitridge are parties in each.
Alike in the bill and in the action at law, it is a vital question
whether the insurers are liable for the sums insured by the policies of January. 1872, and whether they are liable to Whitridge
as assignee of Brune. Hence, if there were a final decree in
the New York case against the complainant here, the present
appellee would necessarily fail in the action he has brought in
Maryland. That decree would be pleadable in bar to his suits,
and the complainant would have complete protection at. law.
But the difficulty in the appellant's way is, that, when this
case was heard in the court below, the record of the New York
case exhibited no final decree. The order that the amount of
the policies might be paid into the trust company to the credit
of the case, and that the company should be discharged, had
been set aside; and the money paid under the order had been
directed to be returned. All that appeared, then, was that a
bill in equity was pending in a foreign jurisdiction, when the
appellee's suits at law were brought to enforce the payment of
the policies to Mrs. Barry, rather than to Brune or his assignee,
and that both the present complainant and the present defendant were parties to that bill.
This, we think, was not sufficient to justify the injunction for
which the appellant prayed. At law, the pendency of a former
action between the same parties for the same cause is pleadable
in abatement to a second action, because the latter is regarded as
vexatious. But the former action must be in a domestic court;
that is, in a court of the State in which the second action has
been brought. M1faule v. Murray, 7 T. R. 470; Buckner v.
Finley, 2 Pet. 586; Browne & Seymour v. Joy, 9 Johns.
(N. Y.) 221; Smith et al. v. Lathrop et al., 44 Pa. St. 326.

O.t. 1877.]

INSURANCE Co. v. BRUNE'S AsSIGNEE.

The rule in equity is analogous to the rule at law. Story,
Eq. PI., sect. 741. In Foster v. Yassall (3 Atk. 587), Lord
Hardwicke said: "The general rule of courts of equity with
regard to pleas is the same as in courts of law, but exercised
with a more liberal discretion." In Lord Dillon v. Alvares
(4 Ves. 357), a plea of a pending suit in a court of chancery
in Ireland was overruled in the English Court of Chancery.
Certain it is that the plea of a suit pending in equity in a
foreign jurisdiction will not abate a suit at law in a domestic
tribunal. This was shown in a very able decision made by the
Supreme Court of Connecticut, in Hatch v. Spofford (22 Conn.
485), where the authorities are learnedly and logically reviewed.
See also 7 Mete. (Mass.) 570, and 16 Vt. 234.
If, then, a bill in equity pending in a foreign jurisdiction
has no effect upon an action at law for the same cause in a
domestic forum, even when pleaded in abatement; if, still
more, it has no effect when pleaded to another bill in equity,
as the authorities show, - it is impossible to see how it can be
a basis for an injunction against prosecuting a suit at law. It
follows that the refusal of an injunction by the Circuit Court
was not erroneous.
It is contended, however, that if the appellant was not entitled to the injunction asked for, the bill should not have been
dismissed, but that it should have been retained, until the final
disposition of the case in New York. The Supreme Court in
that State having first obtained possession of the subject-matter
of the controversy, as well as jurisdiction of the parties, it is
argued, had a right to proceed to a final determination. In
view of this fact, we concede the Circuit Court might have
retained this bill. It does not appear, however, that such a
retention was asked. Nor was it necessary for the purposes of
justice. As we have already remarked, if a final decree be
made by the Supreme Court, it will, if pleaded, be a bar in the
Mlaryland courts; and if a judgment be rendered in the latter,
the New York court, having jurisdiction of the parties, will be
able to determine to whom in equity the judgment belongs.
Decree affirmed.
TOT. Vr.

88

