Oct. 1877.]

DEWING V. PERDICARIES.

deemed to have closed in that State. The Protector,12 Wall.
700; Brown v. Hiatts, 15 id. 177.
The action of the Court of Appeals of Virginia in refusing a
supersedeas of the judgment of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.

DEWING

V.

PERDICARIES.

1. All acts done in aid of the rebellion were illegal and void.
2. Pursuant to a statute of the Confederate States, and to an order of the Confederate District Court for the District of South Carolina, certain shares
of the stock of a corporation of that State were, upon the ground that the
owners of them were alien enemies, sequestrated and sold in 1862 at public
auction; and the company was required to erase from its stock-books the
names of such owners, insert those of the purchasers, and issue stock certificates to them. All dividends thereafter from time to time declared were
paid to the purchasers, against whom, or their assignees, and the company,
this bill was filed by an original stockholder, praying for a decree that the
certificates so issued b: cancelled as null and void, and the defendants enjoined from selling them, bringing suits to effect the transfer thereof, or
collect dividends therec.n, and the company from allowing such transfers,
issuing new certificates for the same, or paying such dividends. The court
decreed accordingly. HJdd, 1. That the order of sequestration, the sale, the
transfer on the stock-hotoks of the company, and the new certificates, were
void, giving no right to the purchasers or to their assignees, and taking none
from the original owners. 2. That the bill was well brought, and the corporation a proper party defendant. 3. That the purchasers, or their assignees,
have no claim against the company for indemnity; but if, under the circumstances, entitled to any redress, they must seek it by suit againtt the parties
by whom they claim to have been defrauded.

APPF_ from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
21r. Philip Philli~s and Hr. Bdward MeCrady for the
appellants.
Mr. . B. Young and Hfr. W. D. Porter,contra.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
There is no controversy about the material facts of this case.

At the beginning of the late civil war, the Charleston Gas.
VOL. VI.

13

DEWING V. PERDICARIES.

[Sup. Ot

light Company was a body politic and corporate of the city ol
Charleston, in the State of South Carolina. Its capital stock
consisted of thirty thousand six hundred and sixty-four shares
of $25 each. A part of the stock was held by citizens of other
states. Pursuant to a statute of the Confederate States, and
an order of the Confederate District Court for the District of
South Carolina, three thousand seven hundred and seventy-six
shares were sequestrated, and sold at public auction on the I I th
of April, 1862, for the alleged reason that they belonged to
"alien enemies." Of this stock the complainant owned thirteen
hundred and fifty-one shares. The defendants, except the gas
company, were purchasers at this sale, or are the assignees of
such purchasers. The Confederate authorities required the
company to erase from its stock-book the names of the loyal
owners, to insert those of the purchasers, and to issue stock
certificates to the latter; all which was accordingly done.
Dividends were declared from time to time, and paid to those
parties or their assignees. The company actcd under duress.
The slightest resistance or hesitation would not have been
tolerated by the Confederate authorities.
In February, 1865, the military forces of the United States
captured the city of Charleston, and seized all the property
and effects of the gas company. The president of the company
was relieved from his duties, and ordered to deliver all the
records of the company to a lieutenant of the army, who was
appointed to succeed him. In May, 1866, the property of the
company which had been seized was restored to it. The conditions of the restoration were that the company should erase
from its books the names of those who bought the sequestrated
stock and of the assignees, and replace the names of the prior
stockholders, and also pay to the latter the amount of the dividends declared upon the stock since January, 1861. These
requirements were fully complied with by 'the company.
The bill was filed by Perdicaries for himself and such other
stockholders in the same situation as might choose to come in
and contribute to the expenses of the litigation. The stock
certificates of the original holders, and those of the purchasers
or their assignees, are still outstanding.
The complainant prays that the sale may be vacated; that

Oct. 1877.]

DEWING V. PERDICARIES.

the certificates still outstanding issued to the purchasers and
their assignees may be declared invalid, and ordered to be
delivered up and cancelled; that the claimants may be enjoined
from transferring or selling the shares, and from bringing suits
to effect such transfers, or for dividends; and that the company
be enjoined from allowing such transfers, from issuing new
certificates, and from paying dividends on the shares to those
parties.
Subsequently, an amended bill was filed. It alleged that
some of the defendants had commenced actions on the case
against the company, alleging that it had issued the certificates
fraudulently, and that it was bound to make them good, or to
indemnify the holders. It was prayed that all the parties be
enjoined from prosecuting or instituting such suits, and that
their rights should be finally settled in this suit. There was a
decree for the complainants, whereupon the defendants brought
the case here.
Nothing is better settled in the jurisprudence of this court
than that all acts done in aid of the rebellion were illegal
and of no validity. The principle has become axiomatic. It
would be a mere waste of time to linger upon the point for the
purpose of discussing it. Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700; Hickman v. Jones, 9 id. 197 ; Hanauer v. Doane, 12 id. 342 ; Knox
v. Lee, id. 457; ffanauer v. Woodruff, 15 id. 439; Cornet v.
Williams, 20 id. 226; Sprott v. United States, id. 459.
The transactions here in question were clearly within the
category thus denounced. The order of sequestration, the sale,
the transfer, and the new certificates, were all utterly void.
They gave no rights to the purchasers, and took none from the
loyal owners. In the view of the law, the rightful relations of
both to the property were just the same afterwards that they
had been before. The purchasers had not then, and they have
not now, a scintilla of title to the stock.
The transferees can be no better off than their vendors.
This is necessarily so, for several reasons.
A thing void as to all persons, and for all purposes, can
derive no strength from confirmation. 13 Comyns, Dig., tit.
Confirmation, D. 1, 4, pp. 144, 145; Blessing v. House's Lessee,
8 Gill & J. (Md.) 290.

DEWING V. PERDICARIES.

[Sup. Oto

It is a caput mortuum, and nothing can give it vitality. The
assignor could give no title to his assignee, when he had none
himself.
The stock of such corporations may be held by a vadid title
without a certificate. The certificate is only one of the indicia
of title. The right to the stock is in the nature of a nonnegotiable chose in action. Angell & A. on Corp., sect. 560.
The assignee takes it subject to all the equities which existed
against it in the hands of the assignor. ilechanics' Bank v.
The New York J New Haven -Railroad Co., 13 N. Y. 599.
Such is the rule applied to all choses in action not having the
element of negotiability. National Bank of Washington v.
Texas, 20 Wall. 72.
Even where a negotiable note is void ab initio, because made
so by statute, or by public policy on account of the consideration, or is so by reason of the incapacity of the maker, it can
no more be enforced against the maker by a bona fide holder
than by the payee. It is alike void in the hands of both.
1 Parsons, Bills and Notes (ed. 1873), pp. 276, 277.
It is needless to pursue the subject further. The assignors
and assignees occupy exactly the same ground. Neither has
any right or title to the stock in question.
The suit was well brought by the complainant. The capital
stock and all the other property and effects of a corporation
are a trust fund. The corporation owns and holds them as
a trustee. The shares are a distinct and separate property.
This subject was fully considered in Farrington v. Tennessee,
95 U. S. 679. What was there said need not be repeated.
Where a cause of action affects the entire interests of a corporation as such, the corporation is the proper party to sue.
Where it affects specially a stockholder, he has the same right
to sue pro interesse suo as any one else. In the latter case, it
may or may not be necessary to make the corporation a party.
As between the complainant and the party who bought his
stock at the pretended sale, the conflict was primarily between
them. The question was one of" meurn and tuum. But the
shares represented aliquot parts of the trust fund. It was,
therefore, proper that the corporation, as the trustee of that
fund, should be brought before the court, that it might have

ot. 1877.]

DEWING V. PERDICARIES.

effectual notice of the litigation, atd be bound by the results.
The corporation, as the owner and representative of the trust
fund, had, however, an interest of its own to be litigated. So
far as the prior and the latter holders of the stock were concerned, it might have made them parties, and had their
rights settled by a bill of interpleader. There were also
questions affecting all the stockholders alike. They were,
(1) whether both sets of claimants could not hold the stock
claimed by them respectively, and the aggregate of the capital
stock be so much increased; (2) whether the corporation, by
reason of the conduct of its officers, was or was not bound to
indemnify the purchasers or their assignees, if they lost the
stock which they claimed to own; and (3) whether dividends
should be paid to both sets of claimants, and, if not, to whom
such payments should be made. In such a proceeding the
original owners of the confiscated stock must have been made
parties. This would have brought the same questions before
the court as are now presented for consideration. The liberality and flexibility of the doctrines and practice of courts of
equity are such that this could as well be done in this case as
in a separate and independent proceeding instituted by the
corporation. The complainant had a clear right, on account
of the cloud cast upon his title, and of the injury otherwise
special to himself, of which he complained, to be heard upon
his bills. The entire subject and the necessary parties being
before the court, and the court having jurisdiction for one purpose, might well take and exercise it as to every thing involved
in the controversy. This saved time, expense, circuity of proceedings, perhaps a multiplicity of suits, and promoted the ends
of justice. There is clearly no misjoinder or multifariousness
in the bill.
There are cases in which a corporation having refused to do
its duty by suing to avert a threatened wrong, a stockholder
was permitted to intervene in its stead, making the corporation
a party. Dodge v. Woolsey (18 How. 331) is one of this kind.
Cases are more numerous where the directors having made
themselves personally liable for neglect or breach of duty, and
the corporation refusing to proceed against them, a stockholder
1
ias been permitted to sue in its behalf. In such cases, the cor-

DEWING V. PERDICARIES.

[Slip. Ct,

potation is an indispensable party. The refusal must be made
distinctly to appear; and the avails of the litigation, if there be
any, go to the corporation, and are a part of its means, as if it
had itself sued and recovered. See Hodges v. Lew -England
Screw Co., 1 R. 1. 312; Foss v. Harbottle, 2 Hare, 461; Hersey
v. Veazie, 24 Me. 1; Cunningham v. Pell, 5 Paige (N. Y.),
607; Smithz v. Hurd, 12 Mete. (Mass.) 371; Austin, Receiver,
v. Daniels, 4 Den. (N. Y.) 299. But this bill does not belong
to either of these classes. It is founded upon the wrong and
injury special to the complainant; but it happens that his
case and that of the corporation, if the latter had sued, would
depend upon the same considerations, and that the decision of
either would decide the other, except, perhaps, as to a single
point, in regard to which we entertain no doubt. That point
is the claim of a part of the appellants for indemnity from the
company. To this, aside from the state of the pleadings, there
are fatal objections. If they are paid by the company, they
must be paid in part out of the money of the loyal men who
have been wronged and forced into this litigation for the vindication of their rights. A court of equity cannot be expected
to entertain such a proposition. If those who make the claim
are, under the circumstances of this case, entitled to any remedy,
it must be sought against the parties personally by whom they
say they were defrauded. The Western Banc of Scotland v.
Addie, Law Rep. 1 Scotch App. 145. That question would
be alien to those arising and proper to be decided in this case.
The litigation as to that subject would be multifarious.
The rights and claims of all the parties before us, as respects
both the corporation and the original stockholders, may therefore well be disposed of in this case.
We think the decree of the Circuit Court is right; and it is
Affirmed.

