MCPHERSON V. COX.

[Sup. Ct'.

is correct, if it be true, as heretofore explained, that it was the
property and not the claimant that was put to trial under the
pleadings; and we are also of the opinio that the theory
adopted by the court below, that, if the lessee of the premises
and the operator of the distillery committed the alleged frauds,
the government was entitled to a verdict, even though the jury
were of the opinion that the claimant was ignorant of the
fraudulent acts or omissions of the distiller.
Viewed in that light, the legal conclusion must be that the
unlawful acts of the distiller bind the owner of the property,
in respect to the management of the same, as much as if they
were committed by the owner himself. Power to that effect
the law vests in him by virtue of his lease; and, if he abuses his
trust, it is a matter to be settled between him and his lessor;
but the acts of violation as to the penal consequences to the
property are to be considered just the same as if they were the
acts of the owner. The Vrouw Tidith, 1 C. Rob. 150; United
Statesv. The Distilleryat Spring Valley, 11 Blatchf. 255; Same
v. The Reindeer, 2 Cliff. 57; Same v. Nineteen Hundred and
Sixty Bags of Coffee, 8 Cranch, 398; Mitchell v. Torup, Parker,
227.
Examined in the light of these suggestions, as the case should
be, it is clear that there is no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

MCPHERSON v. Cox.
Bill in chancery, praying for the removal of the defendant as the trustee in a.
deed made to secure to the complainant the payment of a bond in the defendant's possession, and for the delivery of the bond. The defendant asserts a
lien on the bond for legal services rendered to the complainant. Held, 1. That
while a state of mutual ill-will or hostile feeling may justify a court in removing a trustee, in a case where he has a discretionary power over the rights of
the cestui que trust, and has duties to discharge which necessarily bring the parties into personal intercourse with each other, it is not sufficient cause where
no such intercourse is required and the duties are merely formal and ministerial, and no neglect of duty or misconduct is established against him. 2. A
contract to pay to an attorney-at-law for his services in suits con arning
land, if it bp recovered, a specific sum of money out of the proceeds, when it

Oct. 1877.]

MCPHERSON v. Cox.

shall be sold by the client, is not champertous, because lie neither pays costs nor
accepts the land, or any part of it, as his compensation. 3. Nor is it void undet
the Statute of Frauds because not in writing, for it may be performed within
the year. 4. The land having been recovered, and by the owner sold foi
S38,000, for which a bor I was taken and left with the attorney, the latter has
a lien on the bond for money due him for his services as such. 6 Where,
under the circumstances mentioned, the client brings a bill in chancery for the
removal of the attorney from his position as trustee in the deed to secure the
purchase-money, and for the delivery of the bond, it is the duty of the court
to decide on the existence and amount of the lien set up in the answer, and to
decree such delivery on payment of the amount of the lien, if one be found
to exist. 6. Though the defendant, by neglecting to file a cross-bill, can have
no decree for affirmative relief, it is proper for the court to establish the condition on which the delivery of the bond to the complainant, according to the
prayer of the bill, should be made, and to require such delivery on the performance of that condition.
APPEALJ

from the Supreme Court of the District of Co-

lumbia.
On the twenty-sixth day of November, 1870, Mrs. Mary A.
Cox, the appellee, who was a widow, sold and conveyed to
Charles H. Holden, Charles W. King, and Samuel Ford, square
No. 312 of the city of Washington, for the sum of 538,000.
No part of this was paid at the time, but a bond was given for
it, due ten years after date, with interest payable annually; and,
to secure the payment of this sum and of the interest as it fell
due, the purchasers made a deed of trust, with the usual con-'
ditions, to John D. McPherson and Jesse B. Wilson. At the
time of the transaction, the bond was placed in the possession
of McPherson, the appellant, where it remains to the present
time.
In June, 1873, Mrs. Cox filed her bill in chancery, in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, praying that
McPherson be discharged and removed from his trust under
the deed, and be compelled to deliver to her the bond of Holden,
King, and Ford.
The court decreed that, on account of the ill-feeling and unfriendly relations shown to exist between the parties, by reason
of a controversy between them in regard to a claim of McPherson for 85,000 for legal services, against Mrs. Cox, and of a
lien for that amount on the bond mentioned, it was fit and
proper that he should cease to be such trustee. It accordingly
declared him removed as trustee, and all his rights and powers

MCPHERSON V. Cox.

[Sup. Cr,.

vested in the other trustee, Wilson; and ordered him to deliver
up the bond to Wilson, who was to hold it subject to the further order of the court. But Wilson was to receive and pay
over to Mrs. Cox all that might be paid on it, except $10,000
of the latest payments, which was to be retained subject to the
further order of the court.
From this decree McPherson appeals to this court.
The remaining facts in the case are set forth in the opinion
of the court.
JMr. Philip Phillips and Mr. George P. Appleby for the
appellant.
Ill-feelings and unfriendly relations of a cestui que trust
towards his trustee constitute no ground for removing the
latter from his trust. Porster v. Davies, 4 De G., F. & J.
133; Gibbes v. Smith, 2 Rich. (S. C.) Eq. 131; Berry v. Williamson, 11 B. Mon. (Ky.) 245; Hill, Trustees, 191.
The appellant was in no fault in any of the transactions complained of by the appellee; and the court below, in paying no
regard to the testimony, and decreeing his removal, acted arbitrarily, and without a full consideration of the whole case. Byre
v. Potter, 15 How. 42; Bouldin v. Alexander, 15 Wall. 132;
Peter v. Beverly, 10 Pet. 564; Sergeant v. Howe et al., 21 Il1.
148; Berry v. Skinner, 30 Md. 572; Gibbes v. Smith, supra;
Berry v. Williamson, supra; Tiffany & Bullard, Law Trusts
and Trustees, 387.
The court erred in decreeing that the appellant should part
with the possession of the bond on which he claimed a lien for his
professional services as an attorney-at-law. Platt v. Haler, 23
Wend. (N. Y.) 456 ; Warren v. Griswold, 8 id. 666 ; Worrall v.
Johnson, 2 Jac. & W. 218; Russell's Case, 1 Keny. 129; In re
Murray, 1 Russ. 519; In re Paschal, 10 Wall. 483; Maughan,
Solicitors and Attorneys, 107, 137; Prevost v. Gratz et al.,
6 Wheat. 481; Zeigler v. Hughes, 55 Ill. 288; Clark v. Pendleton, 20 Conn. 495; Chitty, Contr. 75, and cases cited.
The bill should have been dismissed for want of proper
parties, and for multifariousness, and because it was prematurely filed. Wilbur v. Almy, 12 How. 191; 2 Story, Eq. Jur.,
sect. 1280; Drane v. Gunter, 19 Ala. 731; Cruger v. Halliday,
11 Paige (N. Y.), 319; Sergeant v. Rowe et al., 21 Ill. 148,

Oct. 1877.]

MCPHERSON V. COX.

.Breedlove v. Stump, 3 Yerg. (Tenn.) 257; Story, Eq. Pl., sect.

271.
Mlr. Albert Pike, contra.

Whatever the contract was as to the amount of the contingent
fee, there was no note or memorandum of it in writing, and -it
was not contemplated by either party that it was to be, or could
be, performed on either side within a year. Therefore, by the
Statute of Frauds in force in the District 6f Columbia, it was
of no effect.
The contract was clearly champertous. Thurstonv. Percival,
1 Pick. (Mass.) 415; Kenney v. Browne, 3 Ridgway, Cas. Parl.
462; Strange v. Brennan, 10 London Jurist, 649; Stevens v
Bagwell, 15 Ves. 139; Wood v. Downes, 18 id. 120; Strachan
v. Brandon, Eden, 303; Stanley v. Jones, 7 Bing. 369; Lathrop
v. Amherst Bank, 9 Metc. (Mass.) 489; In re Masters, 4 Dowl.
P. C. 18; Wlliams v. Protheroe, 5 Bing. 313; In the Matter
of Bleakley, 5 Paige (N. Y.), 311; Merritt v. Lambert, 10 id.
352; Rust v. Larue, 4 Litt. (Ky.) 411; Arden v. Patterson,

5 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 44; Satterlee v. Frazer, 2 Sandf. (N. Y.)
141.
To call the fee contingent is an abuse of language.
If the contract was not champertous, it is because success
was to be certain, and then the fee was enormously exorbitant
and extortionate. Such contracts, made when the client is,
by fear, doubt, and apprehension, under the lawyer's influence, cannot be sanctioned. Walmesley v. Booth, Barn. 478;
Drapers' Company v. Davis, 2 Atk. 295; Saunderson v. Glass,

id. 298; Sayer, Law of Costs, 321; Hobart, 117.
Anciently, a counsellor-at-law could bring no action in any
English court, for his fee was not a debt. This was law in
the time of Coke, and in that of Lord Hardwicke. The
fees of counsel were honoraria, not merces. 1 Coke, Inst.
295 a; 1oor v. Bow, 1 Rep. Ch. 21; Thornhill v. -Evans,
2 A tk. 331; chesley v. Beliot, 4 T. R. 317 ; Newman v. Payne,
4 Bro. 0. C. 352; Aubrey v. Poykin, 1 Dick. 403; Saunderson
v. Glass, 2 Atk. 295; Crossley v. Park, 1 Jac. & W. 460. See
also Dupin, ain4, Profession d'Avocat, i., 105-110,147,597, 599,
690, 698, 699, 715; Camus, Lettre de la Profession d'Avocat,
id. 267, 273.

MCPHERSON V. COX.

[Sup. Ot.

There are no transactions which courts of equity will scrutinize with more jealousy than those between attorneys and
their clients, especially when the latter are of inferior capacity
and inexperienced. Mfills v. Mills, 26 Conn. 217; Ex parte
Plitt, 2 Wall. C. C. 453; Haight v. MYioore, 37 N. Y. Sup. Ct.
161; MleMahon v. Smith, 6 Heisk. (Tenn.) 167.
The court, if its action is needed, will disregard a contract
for contingent fees, and allow counsel what, under the circumstances, it deems fair. The contract must have been made in
abundant good faith, without suppression or reserve of facts, or
exaggeration of apprehended difficulties, or undue influence of
any sort or degree; and the compensation bargained for must
be reasonable, and the transaction characterized throughout
by all good fidelity to the client, or the court will not hold
such compensation to be valid. Ex parte Plitt, 2 Wall. Jr.
473.
It is for the attorney to show that the dealings between
him and his client, by which the attorney is benefited, are
just and fair, and purely voluntary. Mason v. Ring, 2 Abb.
(N. Y.) Pr. N. S. 322; Brock v. Barnes, 40 Barb. (N. Y.)
521.
The oral contract relied on is on its face void under the
Statute of Frauds. It was not for any service presently to
be rendered, nor were the counsel to engage in any litigation where the result would be doubtful. They were not
to attempt, and they did not attempt, to "break the lease"
for the forfeiture of the contract to build. They were to
wait until, some time during the seven years unexpired, the
lessee might possibly, by a breach of another covenant,
clearly and indisputably forfeit all right; and then they weie
to sue.
The appellant cannot retain the bond. He has no lien
thereon, and no right thereto,First, Because there is no valid contract, and no indebtedness
as claimed.
Second, Because the bond was received by him not in his
character of attorney or solicitor, nor in the course of his professional employment for Mrs. Cox, nor in the ordinary course
of his business, but in his character of trustee alone. Stevenson

Oc& 1877.]

MCPHERSON v. Cox.

v. Blakeloci, 1 M. & S. 538, per Gifford, arg., and Littledale, J.,
and Lord Ellenborough; Ex parte Nesbitt, 2 Sch. & Lef. 279;
Champernown v. Scott, 6 Madd. 93.
Third, Because the terms of the alleged contract are wholly
inconsistent with the existence of a lien, it being for payment of the fee, at an uncertain future time, out of the proceeds of the sale of the land, when she should sell the same.
Hilton v. Bragg, 7 Taunt. 21, per Lens, Sergeant, arg.; The
Case of an Hostler, Yelv. 67, note; Cowell v. Simpson, 16 Ves.
275.
The counsel for the appellant said, below, that he did not
ask a decree eitablishing the lien,-which, of course, he could
not have upon the pleadings,-but only a decree affirming
his client's right to retain the bond. That would be a
decree establishing his lien. For the lien of a solicitor on
the deeds and papers in his hands is merely a right to withhold them from his client, and not a right to enforce any
claim against him; and, as long as the client allows them to
remain in the solicitor's hands, the lien is unavailing. Blunden
v. Desart, 2 Con. & L. 119; Bozon v. Bolland, 4 Myl. & Cr.
858.
Such a lien depends not on contract, but on the law. Blunden
v. Desart, supra.
It is not fit that the appellant should continue to jbe trustee,
holding the fee, and claiming a lien on it in his own favor. He
only wears the mask of a trust, in order to have thereby an
undue advantage of the beneficiary. If he has a lien, he could
sell under it, and buy in the property. there is a conflict of
interests, which incapacitates him and unfits him to be trustee.
Green v. Winter, 1 Johns. (N. Y.) Oh. 41; Davoue v. Panning,
2 id. 270; Howell v. Baker, 4 id. 120; Van Home v. _onda,
5 id. 509; Willard, Trustees, 187, 188, 194, 472; Willis, Trustees, 121, 126, 162; Hill; Trustees, 535; Henley v. Phillivs,
2 Atk. 48.
The removal of a trustee, at the request of the cestui que
irust, and the appointment of another person to sell the lands
conveyed by the deed, is matter of discretion for the court, and
will be ordered when good cause is shown. Ward v. .Dortch, 69
N. C. 279.

MCPHERSON V. COX.

[Sup. Ot.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The question for our consideration is the soundness of the
decree of the court below.
The pleadings show the original bill, an amended bill, and
three supplemental bills, and answers, and replications to the
answers.
The charges on which complainant asked the removal of
McPherson may be classified into those which affirm a neglect
of his duty as such trustee, and into those which show acts and
intentions hostile to her interests.
Of the first class are charges, 1. That arrears of interest on the bond have leen permitted
to accumulate, and that he failed to collect such interest or to
sell the property, as the deed of trust authorized.
2. That he neglected to attend to having the property insured
or the taxes paid, as was his duty; and in this connection she
charges that she had paid him $150 for that purpose.
Of the acts which show hostile or fraudulent intentions she
charges, 3. That, on a sale made by the obligors in the bond of part
of the property, he induced her to release the lots so sold and
accept thirteen notes of $1,000 each, secured by a mortgage on
them, which notes she supposed was the first lien on those lots;
whereas, it.turned out that three other notes of like amount, of
the same series, secured by the same mortgage, had been issued
and sold to bona fide holders, and that these notes were a prior
lien, and endangered her security. She alleges that this was
well known to McPherson, who was acting as her agent and
trustee, and was fraudulently concealed from her.
4. That he had notified Ford, one of the obligors in the bond,
to pay her no more money, and had thus prevented him from
paying to her the interest after it was due.
5. And, mainly, that he sets up a false and exorbitant claim
of $5,000 for legal services, and claims a lien on the bond in
his possession, and a right to appropriate the first money paid
an said bond to the satisfaction of said claim.
The answer denies that the deed of trust imposed on him
any obligation to collect the interest, or see to the insurance of
the houses or to the payment of the taxes. Denies that he

Oct. 1877.]

MCPHERSON V. COX.

ever received any money from her to pay for insurance, or any
notice to sell for non-payment of interest or taxes. Denies
any hostile purpose towards complainant, and any act or intent
inconsistent with his duty as trustee. He admits that he does
assert a claim for $5,000 due to the partnership firm of Carlisle
& McPherson, for services as attorneys and counsellors, in
regard to this same property, and for which he claimed, and
now asserts in this answer, a lien on the bond, and a right to
hold it until that sum is paid. And he denies that in the
transaction by which she released certain lots covered by the
deed of trust, and received the notes and deed of trust securing
them, that any thing was concealed from her. And in regard
to this he says that she was present when the matter was transacted, and received in person the thirteen notes and the money
for which the other three notes were sold, and knew well what
she was' doing.
Testimony was taken on all these issues, the most important of
which is that of the complainant and defendant and of Carlisle.
As preliminary to any further investigation of these issues,
it is necessary to determine the defendant's duties, and his
rights under the deed of trust.
After the usual clause of conveyance, it proceeds thus:"In and upon the trusts hereinafter mentioned and declared, and
for no other purpose whatsoever, that is to say:
"In trust: .Fir'st, To permit the said Charles H. Holden, Charles
W. King, and Samuel Ford, their heirs or assigns, to use and occupy
the said-described premises, and the rents, issues, and profits thereof
to take, have, and apply to and for their sole use and benefit until
default be made in the payment of the principal sum of the debt
hereinbefore mentioned, or of some instalment of the annual
interest.
",econd, Upon payment of any instalment of the principal of
the said debt, to release td the said parties of the first part of said
square, which they shall designate in the proportion of two square
feet of ground for every three dollar so paid.
"Third, And upon full payment of the said debt of thirty-eight
thousand dollars ($38,000), and of the interest thereon, and all
other proper costs, charges, commissions, and expenses incurred in
pursuance of this trust, to release the said square numbered three

MCPHERSON V. COX.

[Sup. Or.

hundred and twelve (312), or so much thereof as has not been
released, unto the said parties of the first part, their heirs and
assigns, at their proper cost.
"Fourth, And upon this further trust upon default being made
in the payment of the said principal sum, or of any interest due on
the same, to sell at public auction, on such terms and after such
notice as the said trustees or trustee shall deem propel, so much of
the said property as they or he shall deem necessary to pay the sum
due, and out of the proceeds in the order following, to pay, 1st, the
costs and expenses of said sale, including the usual trustee's commission; 2d, to lpay the amount due the saidlMary A. Cox, whether
of interest or principal; 3d, to pay the said Mary A. Cox the residue of said proceeds to an amount not exceeding the principal sum,
or the part thereof unpaid to be received by her in advance, in
whole or part satisfaction, as the case may be, of the said principal
sum; 4th, to pay over the residue, if any, to the said parties of the
first part, their executors, administrators, or assigns."
There is here no duty or obligation or right to do more than
two things; namely, to make the releases of parts or of the
whole of the ground, as the payments entitled the obligors in
the bond to have them made, and to sell the land or parts of it,
as their failure to pay might justify, and in making such sale
to receive and distribute the money as required. But it is very
clear that the trustees assumed no obligation to look after the
taxes or the insurance. The deed of trust does not mention
either taxes or insurance. Nor were they bound, or did they
undertake by any thing found in this instrument, to look after
the payment of the annual interest. The bond was made payable to complainant, and she alone was authorized to receive
the interest, and to give a valid receipt for it. Payment to
either of the trustees would have been no defence to a suit
by her.
It is very clear, therefore, that as there was no duty imposed
upon the defendant as trustee to look after the taxes or insurance, or the collection of the interest, he was guilty of no
neglect in regard to them.
If, as complainant alleges, her interest was not paid, she had
a right to have the two trustees advertise and sell the property,
or so much of it as would be necessary to pay what was due.

Oct. 1877.]

.MCPHERSON
V. COX.

But they were not bound to do this, nor had they any right to
do it, until she made request; and there is no pretence that she
ever made such request or desired such action.
It is proper to say in this connection that the testimony
wholly fails to show the payment of $150, or any other sum,
to defendant, to be used in paying for insurance. We may
also add, that there is not the slightest evidence that defendant
concealed from the complainant, or in any manner misled her
in the transaction, by which she released the lots mentioned,
and received other security for such release. But it appears
very clearly that she was present when the whole thing was
done, and received the money for which the notes first due
were sold; and, if she did not know they were a first lien, it is
not the fault of McPherson.
There remains to be considered the charge that he forbade
Ford to pay money to complainant, and that he sets up a false
claim for $5,000, and the right to a lien on the bond for that
sum.
These may be considered together, as they involve the main
subject of controversy below, and lie at the foundation of the
suit.
McPherson occupied in these transactions, and is charged in
the bill and supplemental bills of complainant with misconduct
in two distinct characters or relations to her; namely, as trustee in the deed we have mentioned, and as her counsel and
attorney in the management of her lawsuits, and legal adviser
in regard to her property. It is important to keep this distinction in mind; for it runs through the whole case, and is recognized in the decree, which not only removes him as trustee
under the deed, but requires him to deliver up the bond,
although it seems to recognize a right of his in that bond to be
established by future litigation.
Now, as we have already said, this bond was payable directly
to complainant. She was entitled to its possession, and te
receive all the money paid on it, so far as any thing in the trustdeed, or any right conferred on McPherson by that trust, is
concerned. Its possession, as connected with the trust, belonged neither to him nor to his co-trustee, Wilson. If, therefore, he had any right to that possession, it must be found in

414

MCPHERSON v. Cox.

[Sup. ot

the other relation we have mentioned, and we will proceed to
consider that.
We have the deposition of three witnesses, and three only,
who knew and could tell the facts on which the lien of McPherson must rest, if it exist at all. These are the complainant,
the defendant, and Carlisle, the law-partner of defendant, and
interested with him in the lien asserted.
In regard to the facts which are relied on to create the lien
there does not seem to be much, if any, difference in the statements of the parties. It is only when they come to the amount
that these differences are irreconcilable.
Without entering minutely into the examination here of
what each witness says, we will first state what we consider
established beyond question.
It appears that complainant had made to Angus and Lewis
a long lease of square 312, with a right in them to purchase at
a fixed price; namely, $15,000. That, while they held the
property under this contract, it had risen very much in value,
and Mrs. Cox became desirous to get released from it. For
this purpose she employed McPherson and Carlisle as her
lawyers; and they succeeded in recovering possession of the
property, avoiding the contract, and recovering rents and profits
amounting to $2,700. In doing this, they successfully prosecuted an action of ejectment, a separate action for mesne
profits, and defended a suit in equity brought by Angus and
Lewis to enforce the original contract. That, in employing the
law-firm of Carlisle & McPherson to attend to this business, she
agreed to pay them a fixed sum for their services, which, in a
letter written to them after a controversy had arisen as to the
amount so fixed, she says, "was to be paid out of the proceeds
of sales of the property, as such proceeds shall be realized."
After the embarrassment of Angus and Lewis's claim had been
removed, the whole square was sold, as we have already shown,
to Holden, King, and Ford, and the deed of trust and bond
made by them, and the bond left with the defendant. This
bond was the first proceeds of the sale of the square.
Some time after this, and after Holden, King, and Ford had"
built houses on some of the lots of the square, they sold them
to James Pike for $16,000, and obtained the release of them

Oct. 1877.]

MCPHERSON v. Cox.

by Mrs. Cox, from the lien of the deed of trust, by giving her
113,000 in those notes as payment on the bond, and paying
her in cash $4,000, the proceeds of the other notes given in
the same transaction. In the deeds of trust given by Pike on
those lots to secure said notes McPherson and Wilson were
made trustees, as they had been in the deed from which they
were released; but, though the original bond remained through
all these transactions with McPherson, the money and the
notes arising from this last sale'were handed over to complainant. Although several years had elapsed, and Carlisle &
McPherson had no written agreement with complainant about
their fee, they permitted the entire proceeds of this last sale,
and of the recovery for rents and profits, and the interest which
Holden & Co. had paid on their bond, to go into complainant's
hands without objection, and had during that time frequently
loaned her money, -had acted as her counsel and attorneys in
both the sales, and drawn all the papers necessary to secure
her interests. Thus far the facts seem undisputed.
But not long after this last transaction McPherson addressed
a note to Mrs. Cox, suggesting that the matter of the fee for
the services of his firm, resting only in parol, was not on that
account in a satisfactory position, and enclosing her a writing,
which he requested her to sign, acknowledging an indebtedness
of $5,000 for their services, and a lien on the securities for the
land sold. To this she replied next day, refusing to do as
requested, because she said the fee was to be $2,500, and not

$5,000.
An animated correspondence now ensued between Mrs. Cox
and McPherson, into which Carlisle was also drawn by letters
addressed to him personally by Mrs. Cox.
Thereupon McPherson, either with a view to bring her to
terms, or more probably as a protection to his right of lien,
gave notice to Ford, who had bought out his other partners,
not to pay any thing more to Mrs. Cox on the bond; but learning a few days afterward that Ford construed this notice, or
used it as a pretext for delaying the payment of the interest
due, he told him he could pay the interest to Mrs. Cox. Not
long after this the present bill was filed.
It will thus be seen from this condensed statement of facts

MCPHERSON V. COX.

[Sup. Ct.

undisputed that complainant acknowledged that she had agreed
to pay to Carlisle & McPherson, out of the proceeds of the
sale of the property, if she was successful in getting rid of
the contract with Angus and Lewis, $2,500, as their compensation, of which she has thus far never paid or tendered a
dollar; and that they had successfully performed their part of
the agreement. As regards the difference between the parties
as to the amount to be paid by complaipant, the clear and
circumstantial statements of Carlisle and McPherson, under
oath, are not overcome by any thing produced by complainant,
and we are satisfied she agreed to pay $5,000.
This contract is now assailed as illegal, on three grounds,
which we shall consider in their order: 1. The first is, that the amount is so large in proportion to
the services rendered, and the promisor being a woman without
other advice when she entered into the contract, that a court
of equity should hold it void, as an unjust extortion from an
unprotected female.
Our answer to that is, that we believe the services rendered
were worth the money, especially as they were to get nothing
unless they were successful.
2. It is said the contract is obnoxious to the doctrine of
champerty.
The answer is, that the attorneys did not agree to pay any
of the costs, they did not agree to take any part of the land,
which was the subject of the suit, for their compensation, nor
did they agree to take any thing but money. The single fact
that they agreed to wait for their money until complainant
could sell the land, and to receive a fixed sum out of the purchase-money, does not, under any definition of champerty,
bring it within that principle.
3. It is said to be within the Statute of Frauds, because not
in writing, and not to be performed within a year.
But the Statute of Frauds applies only to contracts which, by
their terms, are not to be performed within a year, and do not
apply because they may not be performed within that time.
In other words, to make a parol contract void it must be apparent that it was the understanding of the parties that it was
not to be performed within a year from the time it was made.

Oct. 1877.]

MCPHERSON v. Cox.

Peter v. Compton, Skin. 353, decided in King's Bench by Lord
Holt, and the cases collected under that one in 1 Sm. L. C.
432.
There is nothing in the present contract to show that it was
not to be performed inside of a year, nor any thing to show
that it could not have been fully performed within that time.
The action of ejectment which settled the forfeiture of the
lease might have been brought and tried within that time, and
the readiness with which the property sold for $38,000 shows
that the amount of the fee might have been realized and paid
before the year was out. At all events, it cannot be said that
the contract was not to be performed within that time.
We are also of opinion that this obligation on the part of
complainant to pay 85,000 to Carlisle and McPherson was, and
is now, a lien on the bond in McPherson's possession. It is so
by the express contract of the parties, as admitted by Mrs.
Cox. It was to be paid out of the proceeds of the sale of the
land recovered by the suit in equity in which they were employed. The first sale of the land was in a lump, and this
bond for $38,000 represents the proceeds of that sale. It is
the only proceeds of the sale. It is also a very fair inference,
from the fact that the bond was left in McPherson's possession,
that it was done as a recognition of the lien. There is no
other reason why it should have been left with him. It was.
no part of his right or his duty as trustee to hold it. Its pos
session was in no way essential to any of the very few acts
which, as trustee, McPherson could be called on to do under
the deed of trust. It is, therefore, manifest that it was left
with him as her attorney, or as a security for his debt. It is
none the less clear to us, that, apart from the express agreement
for a lien, the same result follows from his relation to her as
attorney, and the possession of this bond as a paper coming to
him in the course of his employment in that character. We
have decided in the case of Paschal (10 Wall. 483), that an
attorney has a lien by law, under circumstances similar to
these, for all that is-due him as attorney or counsellor, on the
papers of his client in his hands.
McPherson has done nothing to waive or defeat this lien.
He might very well have insisted, when the square was sold
voL. v1.

27

MCPHERSON V. COX.

[Sup. Ct.

to Holden & Co., that the fee should then have been paid or
secured to him out of the purchase-money. But he accepted
possession of the bond as a concession to his client. He continued her counsellor all through the transaction. He advised
-with her about the sale. He drew up all the writings necessary to the sale and to the security of the purchase-money.
His consent to act as trustee in a matter where his duties were
merely formal, and in which another trustee was joined with
him, are in no sense inconsistent with his position as her attorney, and his rights growing out of that relation. Until she
changed them their interests were the same; namely, the faithful and prompt payment of the money due on the bond. The
money was hers, but out of it she was to pay the $5,000.
Nor have we been able to discover in the conduct of MePherson any hostility to complainant or to her interests, or any
thing in what he has said or done which is inconsistent with
the faithful performance of his duty to her under the deed of
trust. The only act looking in the slightest in that direction
is his warning to Ford to pay Mrs. Cox no more money on the
bond. Finding her angry with him, and denying his right to
hold the bond as security for his fee, it was necessary to the
protection of the security to give some warning to the obligor
of his right to be paid before the money all passed into her
hands. It may be well doubted if he was not entitled, now
after all that had passed, to be paid out of the first money yet
to be paid on the bond, even if it were the interest. But, on
reflection, he waived that, and told Ford he could pay her the
interest. But there was in all this, and in all the quarrel,
mainly carried on by complainant, nothing which could in the
least interfere with, or would be likely to color his action
jointly with, Wilson in executing releases when the property
was sold or money paid, or in advertising and making sale
when required by complainant in default of payment. If, in
doing this, he wished to retain his fee, or any part of it,
we have already shown it was his right to do so; and that
right cannot be inconsistent with any right of hers, since she
was the person who was to pay, and whose debt would be paid,
by such a course.
We are, therefore, of opinion that McPherson has a right

Oct. 1877.]

MCPHERSON V. Cox.

to the possession of the bond until the fee of $5,000 is paid,
and that he has done nothing inconsistent with his duty as
trustee under the deed of trust, nor displayed any hostile feeling to the real legal rights or interest of complainant, nor
failed or neglected to perform any duty devolving on him as
such trnstee.
What, then, should be the decree of the court?
1. As to the removal of McPherson from the trusteeship we
think there is no ground for such action.
Where a trustee is charged with an active trust, which gives
him some discretionary power over the rights of the cestui que
trust, and which brings him into constant personal intercourse
with the latter, it may be conceded that the mere existence of
strong mutual ill-feeling between the parties will, under some
circumstances, justify a change by the court. But there is
here no such case. McPherson will have, and can have, nothing to do as trustee which requires any personal intercourse
with Mrs. Cox. Unless Ford wishes to pay part of the money
and ask a release of part of the property, he has literally
nothing to do as trustee until the bond is due. And in all
that he may have to do as trustee, his duty is so merely ministerial and so clearly defined, that he can do her no harm
whatever. When, in addition to this, it is considered that
there is another trustee with equal power, and without whom
McPherson can do nothing, we see no danger to her interests or
any reason for his removal.
The following authorities support this view of the matter:
17orster v. Davies, 4 De G., F. & J. 138 ; Gibbes v. Smith,
2 Rich. (S. 0.) Eq. 131; Berry v. tilliamson, 11 B. Mon.
(Ky.) 245; Perry, Trusts, sect. 277.
Since, as we have shown, the appellee has a right to the
possession of the bond, and there exists no reason for his removal, it is suggested that there should simply be a dismissal
of complainant's bill. In support of this view, it is strenuously
maintained, by what we think is a misconception of the case
as made by the pleadings and the evidence, that the amount of
the fee claimed by McPherson and Carlisle, and the existence
of the lien, are not issues in this suit of which the court can
take notice, or on which it can found any action. It must be

MCPHERSON v. COX.

[Sup. Ct.

confessed that the case is so far embarrassed by the unaccountable failure of the appellee to file a cross-bill asking for relief
by a decree establishing his debt and his lien, that no affirmative relief of that character can be given. But it is not true
that the existence and the amount of that lien are not legitimate subjects of inquiry in this case, and necessary to a proper
decree.
Leaving out the matter of the trust, of which we have already
disposed, complainant asks as relief in regard to this bond, that
it be delivered up to her. As a legitimate defence to this
demand, McPherson answers that he has a right to the possession of the bond as security for $5,000 due him by complainant.
She, by supplemental bills and replications, says you have no
such lien, or, if you have a lien, it is only for $2,500. It is
beyond dispute, therefore, that the pleadings put in issue the
existence of the lien and the amount of that lien for which
McPherson can hold the bond. The testimony taken is also
mainly devoted to those points. The issue is fairly made.
What could be more pertinent to the relief sought, and to the
defence against it, than both these issues ? It is clear that the
bond belongs rightfully to Mrs. Cox. If there is no such lien,
she is entitled absolutely to the relief she asked; namely, to
have its possession restored to her. If there is a lien on it, she
is entitled to have that possession on payment of the lien; and
whether she is bound to pay $2,500, or $5,000, or nothing, is
to us very clearly a legitimate issue to be tried in the suit. So
far, then, as ascertaining her right to the possession of the bond,
and the terms or conditions on which that right could be enforced by the court, it seems to us that the issue of the existence of this lien and its amount were not only fairly in the
case, but necessary to be determined to enable the court to
render such a decree as the pleading, the evidence, and the
relief sought required.
That decree is this: That the decree of the Supreme Court of the -Districtbe wholly
reversed. That a new decree he rendered there, denying so
much of the relief sought by complainant as prays for the
removal of the defendant from his trusteeship. That it be
declared that complainant is entitled to the pogsession of the

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. DRISCOLL.

bond of Holden, King, and Ford,on payment to XcPherson
of the sum of $5,000, for which he rzqhtfttlly holds said bond
as security for his services to complainant as her attorney
and counsel. And that MlcPherson have liberty, if he be so
advised, to file a cross-bill for the establishment of his debt
and his lien, a;id for such remedy for its enforcement as
equity can give in the case.
MR. JUSTICE STROING. I concur in the reversal of the decree
of the court below, but I dissent from so much of the opinion as
determines the amount due Messrs. Carlisle and McPherson as
compensation for their professional services, for which the lien
on the bond to Mrs. Cox is asserted. I think that the amount,
as well as the existence of the debt, should be established in
an issue sent to a court of law, especially as no cross-bill was
filed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE. I dissent from the judgment
in this case, and am entirely satisfied with the decree below.

MR. JUSTiCE HUNT and MR. JUSTICE HAnLTA

also dis-

sented.

UNITED STATES v.

Dnmscom.

A. contracted to cut, furnish, and deliver in Washington City, al specified rates,
granite to the United States, at such times as it might require, and to furnish
such number of men as it might deem necessary to the proper prosecution of
the work. The full cost of their labor, increased by fifteen per cent, was also
to be paid to him by the United States. For every day that he was in default
he was to forfeit and pay $100. Held, that there was no privity between the
United States and the men employed by him in the execution of his contract.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The court below rendered judgment pro forma for the claimallt.
The Solicitor-Ceneralfor the United States.
3Ir. Joseph Casey and Hr. Thomas JT.Durant, contra.

