BAIRD V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Gt.

BAIRD v. UNITED STATES.
1. A. presented an unliquidated claim against the United States for $151,688.17,
which was audited by the accounting officers, and allowed for $97,507.75.
lie was informed of this adjustment, and of the principles upon which it
had been made; and a draft for the amount allowed, payable to his order,
was sent to him, which he received and collected without objection. Held.
that his receipt of the money was equivalent to an acceptance of it in satisfaction of the claim.
2. Where a party brings an action for a part only of an entire indivisible demand,
and recovers judgment, he is estopped from subsequently bringing an action
for another part of the same demand.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

In March, 1864, the government, requiring an immediate
supply of locomotive engines for the use of the armies operating
in Tennessee, made an order upon M. W. Baldwin & Co., a firm
of locomotive builders at Philadelphia, for fifteen engines, to be
delivered as soon as possible, and to the exclusion of all other
contracts or interests. The price fixed upon was $18,947.72
for each engine, and the government tax to be paid on delivery.
In addition to this, the firm was authorized to charge the
government any advance there might be after Nov. 9, 1863,
in the cost of labor and materials used in the construction, and
any damage resulting from the preference given this order over
other contracts.
The order was accepted upon the terms proposed, and the
locomotives delivered at intervals of four or five days, between
May 3 and June 30, 1864. The fixed price was paid according
to agreement; and, Sept. 14, 1864, Baldwin & Co. presented their
claim for the difference in the cost on account of the advance
in the price of labor and materials, which was then stated to be
$151,588.17. This claim was audited by the government, and
allowed for $97,507.75; and the firm was informed of the amount
of the allowance, and the principles upon which the adjustment
had been made, as early as Jan. 23, 1865. On the 8th of April,
a draft was sent for the amount found due, payable to the
order of the firm; which was received and collected without
objection.
Subsequently, this appellant, as the sole surviving partner of

Oct. 1877.]

BAIRD V. UNITED STATES.

the frin, brought his action in the Court of Claims, upon the
contract, to recover the damages which it was alleged the firm
had sustained by giving the order preference over other contracts and interests; and at the December Term, 1869, of that
court, judgment was rendered against the United States for
$23,750.
On the 2d of May, 1870, one day before the expiration of six
years from the date of the delivery of the first engine under the
order, this action was brought to recover the "residue of the
amount of the advance in labor and materials over the cost of
the same on the 9th of November, 1863; which residue is the
difference between the $128,276.50 claimed and the government tax thereon (93,848.29), in all, $132,124.79, and the
$93,507.75 paid, making the residue $38,617.04." The Court
of Claims, while finding that the actual advance over and above
what had been paid was the amount claimed, gave judgment in
favor of the United States; whereupon the claimant appealed
to this court.
0Ir. John D. McPherson for the appellant.
The Solicitor-aeneral,contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
It is, no doubt, true that the payment by a debtor of a part
of his liquidated debt is not a satisfaction of the whole, unless
made and accepted upon some new consideration; but it is
equally true, that, where the debt is unliquidated and the amount
is uncertain, this rule does not apply. In such cases the question is, whether the payment was in fact made and accepted in
satisfaction.
It is clear that, in September, 1864, when this account was
first presented to the government, the amount due was uncertain,
because more was then demanded than is now claimed. The
counsel for the appellant say, in their argument, that this reduction has been made in the light of the testimony taken in
the suit for indemnity. Under such circumstances, it was the
duty of the auditing officers of the government to state the
account themselves before making payment. This they did,
and reported to the claimant the amount found due, with the

432

MURRAY V. CHARLESTON.

[Sup. Ct.

principles upon which the adjustment had been made.' In
effect, this was an offer to pay the balance stated in satisfaction
of the claim. The acceptance of the money afterwards, without objection, was equivalent to an acceptance of the payment
in satisfaction.
But there is another objection to the recovery which is equally
good. It is well settled that, where a party brings an action
for a part only of an entire indivisible demand, and recovers
judgment, be cannot subsequently maintain an action for another part of the same demand. Warren v. Comings, 6 Cush.
(Mass.) 103. Thus, if there are several sums due under one
contract, and a suit is brought for a part only, a judgment in
that suit will be a bar to another action for the recovery of the
residue. Here was a contract by which the government was
bound to pay for the engines in accordance with terms agreed
upon. The entire price to be paid was not fixed. A part was
contingent, and the amount made to depend upon a variety of
circumstances. When the former action was commenced in the
Court of Claims, the whole was due. Although different elements entered into the account, they all depended upon and
were embraced in one contract. The judgment, therefore,
for the part then sued upon is a bar to this action for the
"residue."
Judgment affirmed.

MURRAY v.

CHARLESTON.

1. Wherever rights, acknowledged and protected by the Constitution of the Umtea
States, are denied or invaded by State legislation, which is sustained by the
judgment of a State court, this court is authorized to interfere. Its jurisdiction, therefore, to re-examine such judgment cannot be defeated by showing
that the record does not in direct terms refer to some constitutional provision, nor expressly state that a Federal question was presented. The true
jurisdictional test is, whether it appears that such a question was decided
adversely to the Federal right.
2. The provision in that Constitution, that no State shall pass a law impairing the
obligation of contracts, is a limitation upon the taxing power of a State as
well as upon all its legislation, whatever form it may assume. Therefore,
a law changing the stipulations of a contract, or relieving a debtor from a
strict and literal compliance with its requirements, enacted by a State in
the exercise of that power, is unconstitutional and void.

