Oct. 1877.]

NATIONAL BANK V. WARREN.

Whatever Bunn may have done on the 8th of November,
and up to the 15th of that month, in the way of occupation,
settlement, improvement, and even notice, could not withdraw
the land from sale at public auction, unless he had also paid or
offered to pay the price before the sales commenced. "
It seems quite probable that such attempt at settlement as
he did make was made while the land sales were going on, or a
few days before they began, with the purpose of preventing the
sale, in ignorance of the provision of the statute which made
such attempt ineffectual.
At all events, we are entirely satisfied that the lands in controversy were subject to sale at public auction at the time
Moore and Mitchell bid for and bought them; that the sale so
made was by law a valid one, vesting in them the equitable
title, with right to receive the patents; and that the subsequent
proceedings of Bunn to enter the land as a pre-emptor were
unlawful and void.
It was the duty of the court in Illinois, sitting as a court of
equity, to have declared that the mortgage made by Bunn, so
far as these lands are concerned, created no lien on them, because he had no right, legal or equitable, to them.
The decree of the Supreme Court of that State must be
reversed, and the cause remanded to that court for further
proceedings in accordance with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.

NATIOTAL BAxrn

v. WAutEN.

The mere non-resistance of a debtor to judicial proceedings in which a judgment
was rendered against him, when the debt was due and there was no valid
defence to it, is not the suffering and giving a preference under the Bankrupt Act; and the judgment is not avoided by the facts, that he does not
file the petition in bankruptcy, and that his insolvency was known to the
creditor

APP-AL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
S:uthern District of New York.
The Tenth National Bank of New York, having an undis

540

NATIONAL BANK V. WARREN.

[Sup. Ct.

puted debt against the firm of Sanger & Co., of about $10,000,
endeavored to obtain its money by persuasion, but received
only fair words in return. After pursuing this policy for several months, it brought suit against the debtors, Nov. 3, 1870.
They received delay and indulgence in its prosecution, and judgment was rendered against them on the 12th of January, 1871.
Execution was issued on that day, and a levy made upon their
propei ty. Yielding again to their solicitations, the bank did
not press an immediate sale under the execution, and on the 24th
of February, 1871, bankruptcy proceedings were commenced
by their other creditors. The sale upon the execution was
stayed by an injunction in the present suit, which was instituted
by Warren & Rowe, assignees in bankruptcy of Sanger & Co.,
to set aside the judgment and execution as fraudulent and void.
This injunction was afterwards modified by allowing a sale,
and directing the sheriff to hold the proceeds subject to the
order of the court.
The District Court ultimately dismissed the bill with costs.
That decree having, on appeal, been reversed by the Circuit
Court, the bank brought the case here.
Mr. A. J. Vanderpoel for the appellant.
This case is, in substance, identical with Wilson v. City
Bank, 17 Wall. 473.
There is no evidence whatever of any intent to give the bank
a preference. Partridge v. Dearborn, 2 Low. 286; Hoover
v. Greenbaum, 61 N. Y. 305; Sleek v. 2Tarner, 76 Pa. St. 142;
Henkelman v. Smith, 42 Md. 164.
ir. Ansten G. Fox. contra.
This case comes within the class of cases represented by
Buchanan v. Smith (16 Wall. 277), and not that represented by
Wilson v. City Bank (17 id. 473).
The liens obtained by the bank were a preference, and therefore void as against the assignees in bankruptcy.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This action goes upon the theory that the mere non-resistance of a debtor to judicial proceedings against him, when the
debt is due and there is no valid defence to it, is the suffering

Oct. 1877.]

WOLF V. STIX.

and giving a preference under the Bankrupt Act. This theory
is expressly repudiated in the case of Wilson v. City Bank, 17
Wall. 473. It is also held in that case that the facts that the
debtor does not himself file the petition in bankruptcy under
such circumstances, and that the creditor was aware of the
insolvency of the debtor, do not avoid the judgment and execution. In the present case, there is not proven a single fact or
circumstance tending to show a concurrence or aid on the part
of the debtors in obtaining the judgment or securing the payment of the debt. Their only effort was to obtain delay,
apparently in the hope of relief fr om the embarrassments
which finally overwhelmed them.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and that
of the District Court, dismissing the bill with costs, affirmed;

and it is
So ordered.

WoL

T'. STIX.

A decree dismissing a bill in chancery brought to recover a debt and set aside an
alleged fraudulent sale of property, was, on appeal, reversed, and a decree
rendered by the Supreme Court of the State against the appellee for the
amount of the debt, and an execution awarded. Thereupon the appellee,
who, pending the appeal, and more than three years before the date of the
decree, had obtained a discharge in bankruptcy, petitioned the Supreme Court
to set aside its decree, and either permit him to plead his discharge there, orremand the cause, so that he might plead it in the inferior court. The court,
upon the ground that no new defence could be made there, refused the petition,
and permitted the decree to stand as entered. Held, 1. That upon the face
of the record proper no Federal question was raised. 2. That the action
upon the subsequent petition did not place the petitioner in a better position
to invoke the jurisdiction of this court.
MOTION to dismiss a writ

of error to the Supreme Court of

the State of Tennessee.

Mlr. Josiah Patterson, for the defendant in error, in support
of the motion.

Mr. William fM. _andolph, contra.

Mn. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of thecourt.
This was a bill in chancery, filed by Louis Stix & Co. in the

