•Od. 1877.]

RAILROAD

CO. V. MAINE.

,cover some cases which are not affected by the statut6s, and
hence the reproduction of them is proper; but whether so or
not, we hold that the insertion of the statute in connection
'vith them continues in effect the modification -which it
created. Subsequent articles of the Code relating to the registration of all privileges and other formalities, being previous to
the statute in point of time, cannot affect its operation, though
standing on a later page and in a subsequent place in the body
of the Code.
This consideration meets the objection arising from the
general repealing section of the Revised Statutes, which repeals
all statutes and parts of statutes -which are not incorporated
into the Code, and are repugnant to its provisions.
We are of opinion that the statute was in force, and that
the actual delivery of the securities was sufficient to constitute
a pledge.
Decree affirmed.

RAILROAD COMPANY v.

IAI-E.

L Where two or more corporations, subjected to a special tax upon the net
income of their roads, with immunity from other taxation, - the amount
of such special tax being dependent upon reports to be made and information communicated by their directors and other officers, - are consolidated
into a new corporation, with different directors and other officers, who are
neither bound nor able to make the reports and give the information required
of the original companies, the new corporation thus created is not entitled
to the immunity of the original companies from general taxation.
.2. A new corporation may be created by the union of two or more corporations,
and its powers and privileges designated by reference to the charters of other
companies as well as by special enumeration.
-3. The act of the legislature of Maine of 1850, authorizing two or more existing
corporations to consolidate and form a new corporation, was an act of incor
poration of the new company; and the latter, upon its formation, became
at once subject to the provisions of the general law of 1831, which declared
that any act of incorporation subsequently passed should at all times thereafter "be liable to be amended, altered, or repealed at the pleasure of the
legislature, in the same manner as if an express provision to that effect
were therein contained, unless there shall have been inserted in such act of
incorporation an express limitation or provision to the contrary." So long
as this provision remained unrepealed, subsequent legislation not repugnant
to it was controlled by it, and is to be construed and enforced in connection
with it.

RAILROAD CO. V. MAINE.

[14up. Ct.

4. There being in the act of 1856 no limitation upon the power of amendment,
alteration, and repeal, the State, by the reservation in the law of 1831, which
is to be considered as if embodied in that act, retained the power to alter it
in all particulars constituting the grant of corporate rights, privileges, and
immunities to the new company formed under it. The existence of the corporation, and its franchises and imnmunities, derived directly from the State,
were thus kept under its contro! Rights and interests acquired by the company, not constituting a part of the contract of incorporation, stand upon a
different footing.

ERROR to

the Supreme Judicial Court of the State of Maine.

An act of the legislature of Maine, passed in 1874, provides
for a tax upon the corporate franchise of every railroad company in that State, at the rate of one and one-half per cent upon
its estimated value, determined in this wise: The governor and
council of the State are each year required to ascertain the true
market value of its shares, and estimate therefrom the fair cash
valuation of all the shares constituting its capital stock, on the
first day of the preceding April. From this valuation are to be
deducted the value of its real estate and other property subjected to local taxation, and, where its lines extend beyon I the
limits of the State, such portion of the valuation as is proportional to the length of that part of the lines lying without the
State. Upon the value of the franchise thus determined the
governor and council are to assess the tax ; the assessment is to
be certified by the secretary of state to the treasurer, and by
him notice thereof is to be given to the company. The tax
thus assessed is to be in lieu of all taxes on shares of the company previously required by law; and, in case of non-payment,
an action will lie for its collection.
The Maine Central Railroad Company was a corporation of
Maine in 1875, and the owner of a railroad in the State, and
its frane.hise was assessed and taxed for that year under this
statute. It is admitted that the provisions of the act were in
all respects complied with, and the required notice of the assessment given to the company. The tax not being paid, the
present action of debt was brought for its recovery. The company pleaded in defence that the act of 1874 was in conflict
with the provisions of its charter, and also with the Constitution of the State and of the United States. in that it impaired
the obligation of the contract contained in the charter. Upon

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD CO. V. MAINE.

an agreed statement of facts, the case was submitted to the
Supreme Court of the State for its decision. That court gave
judgment for the State, sustaining the validity of the tax;
and the company brought the case to this court on writ of
error.
The Maine Central Railroad Company was originally formed
in October, 1862, by the consolidation of two distinct corporations, - the Androscoggin and Kennebec Railroad Company,
which was incorporated in March, 1845, and had constructed a
railway from Waterville to Danville; and the Penobscot and
Kennebec Railroad Company, which was incorporated in April,
1b4, and had constructed a railway from Bangor to Waterville.
The charter of each company required it to keep a regular
account of its disbursements, expenditures, and receipts, in a
book, which was to be open at all times to the inspection of the
governor and council, and any committee of the legislature;
and required its treasurer, at the expiration of every year, to
make, under oath, an exhibit to the legislature of the net profits
derived from the income of its road. It also provided that the
real estate of the company should be taxable by the towns,
cities, and plantations in which it lay, in the same manner as
that of private persons, and its value be estimated in the same
way ; that the shares of the stockholders should be deemed personal estate, taxable to them at their places of residence; and
that whenever the annual net income of the company amounted
to ten per cent upon the cost of the road and "its appendages,
and incidental expenses," the directors should make a special
report of the fact to the legislature, "from and after which
time" one moiety, or such other portion as the legislature
might determine, of the net income accruing thereafter, above
the tell per cent, first to be paid to the stockholders, should
annually be paid by the treasurer of the corporation, as a tax,
into the treasury of the State. It also declared that no other
tax should ever be levied or assessed on the corporation, or any
of its privileges or franchises, and that the charter should "not
be revoked, annulled, altered, 1 mited, or restrained, without
the consent of tile corporation, except by due process of law."
Tihe consolidation of these two companies inn, the Maine
Central Railroad Company was effected under an act passed in

RAILROAD CO. v. MAINE.

[Sup. (h.

April, 1856, which authorized it upon the agreement of their
directors, approved by the stockholders, prescribing the terms
and conditions thereof, the mode of carrying the same into
effect, the name of the -new corporation, the number of its
directors, the time and place of holding the first election, the
amount of its capital, the number of shares of stock, and the
manner of converting the shares of the capital stock of each of
the corporations into those of the new corporation; and filing
a duplicate or counterpart of the agreement in the office of the
secretary of state. Immediately afterwards, upon the election
of the directors, the corporations making the agreement were to
be consolidated, and, together, to cofistitute a new corporation,
by the name therein mentioned. The act provided that the
new corporation thus formed should have "all the powers,
privileges, and immunities" possessed by each of the corporations entering into the agreement, and be subject to all the
legal obligations then resting upon them respectively; with a
proviso, however, that it should not be construed as extinguishing the old corporations or annulling their charters, but that
they should be "regarded as still subsisting, so far as their continuance for the purpose of upholding any right, title, or interest, power, privilege, or immunity, ever possessed, exercised, or
enjoyed by either of them may be necessary for the protection
of the creditors or mortgagees of either of them, or of such
new corporation; the separate exercise of their respective powers and the separate enjoyment of their respective privileges
and immunities being suspended until the protection of such
creditors or mortgagees shall require their resumption, when
such suspension shall cease, so far and for such time as the
protection of such creditors or mortgagees may require."
Some years after this consolidation, by a law passed in 1873,
three other railroad companies, whose roads were at that time
under lease to the Maine Central Railroad Company, were
allowed to consolidate with it, upon the same terms and conditions prescribed by the act of 1856, so far as they were applicable; and such second consolidation was effected in 1874.
These three companies were the Portland and Kennebec Railroad Company, which owned a railroad from Augusta to Port.
land; the Sommerset and Kennebec Railroad Company, which

Oct. 1877.1

RAILROAD Co. v. MAINE.

had constructed a railroad from Skowhegan to Augusta; and
the Leeds and Farmington Railroad Company, which owned a
.ailroad from Farmington to Leeds Junction.
The first of these three companies was formed by holders of
bonds of the Kennebec and Portland Railroad Company, a corporation created in 1836, and, by the act of 1845, possessed of a
similar conditional immunity from taxation to that of the two
companies first consolidated. By authority of the legislature,
this company had issued its bonds, secured by mortgage upon its
road and franchise. In 1862, the mortgage was foreclosed, and
the present corporation formed. The new corporation was, by
statute, invested with the legal rights and immunities of the
original corporation. It is admitted that the charters of the
other two of these three corporations contained no limitation
upon the taxing power of the State.
It is upon the franchise of the Maine Central Company, as
formed in 1874, upon the second consolidation, that the tax was
assessed and levied for which this action was brought.
An act of the legislature of Maine, passed in 1831, c. 503
contained the following provision: "All acts of incorporation, which shall be passed after the passage
of this act, shall at all times hereafter be liable to be amended,
altered, or repealed, at the pleasure of the legislature, in the sam(
manner as if an express provision to that effect were therein contained, unless there shall have been inserted in such act of incorporation an express limitation or provision to the contrary."
Judgment was rendered in favor of the State, and the company sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Josiah H. Drummond for the plaintiff in error.
1. The legislature has the power, by contract, to exempt a
person or corporation from taxation, and no subsequent legislature can repeal the exemption. Cooley, Taxation, 55; New
Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164; Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court,
3 How. 133; Piqua Branch of State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop,
16 id. 369; Ohio Life Insurance & Trust Co. v. Debolt, id.
416; Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 id. 331; Mechanics', &e. Bank v.
Thomas, id. 384; Jefferson Branch Bank v. S7celly, 1 Black.
436; McGee v. Mathis, 4 Wall. 143; Von Hoffman v. City qf

504

RAILROAD CO. V. MAINE.

[Sup. CL,

Quincy, id. 535; Home of the Priendless v. Rouse, 8 id. 430;
Washington University v. Rouse, ia. 439; Wilmington Railroad
v. Reid, 13 id. 264; Raleiyh & Gaston Railroad Co. v. Reid,
id. 269; Tomlinson v. Jessup, 15 id. 454; Tomlinson v. Branch,
id. 460; IHumphrey v. Pegues, 16 id. 244; The Delaware Railroad Tax, 18 id. 206; Pacific Railroad Co. v. liaguire,20 id
36; Erie Railway Co. v. Pennsylvania, 21 id. 492; Bailey v.
MUaqlire, 22 id. 215; Central Railroad, &c. Co. v. Geo,a,
92 U. S. 665; Branch et al. v. City of Charleston et al., id. 677.
This power, when the charters of the consolidating companies
were granted, or when any of the acts in addition thereto, or
under which the plaintiff in error claims any rights, were
passed, was not limited by any provisions of the Constitution
of Maine.
2. The plaintiff in error has a valid subsisting contract in its
charter, in relation to the manner in which it shall be taxed.
The two companies first consolidated into the Maine Central
were. by their charters of 1845, subjected only to a tax upon
the net income of their roads, to be ascertained in a prescribed
manner, over and above ten per cent first paid to their stockholders; and their charters declared that no other tax should
ever bt+ levied or assessed upon the corporations, or any of their
privileges or franchises.
The act of 1874 authorizes, in terms, a tax "upon the corporate franchise"

of the Maine Central Company; and it is

admitted that such a tax is other than the one provided in the
charters of the two consolidating companies. The act of consolidation of 1856, under which the Maine Central was formed,
provided that it should have "all the powers, privileges, and
inimnunities " possessed by each of the consolidating companies;
anti thus the question arises, whether the act of 1874 overrides
and conti ols this exemption; if it does not, the judgment below
must be reversed.
3. The charters of the consolidating companies were not controlled by the act of 18:31, for they contain a provision that they
Eshall not be revoked, annulled, altered, limited, or restrained,
without the consent of the corporation, except by due process of
law ;" and no specific reference to that act was necessary. It is
claimed by the State that that act does apply, as there is no

,Oct. 1877'.]

RAILROAD

CO. V. MAINE.

express exemption from it contained in the act of 1856, which1
it is insisted, was an act of incorporation accepted by the
company.
We answer, that the act of 1831 is limited, in its effect, to
"acts of incorporation ;" and that the act of 1856 was not an
"ac, of incorporation," within the meaning of the term in
the act. of 18A.
An act of incorporation was then understood to be the granting of a franchise by the State to a body created by its authority, and was called a charter.
The act of 185t; does not create a body corporate, but merely
authorizes two existing bodies corporate to unite in one; nor
does it grant a franchise, but merely provides that, by the consolidation, their franchises shall thereby, eo instanti, be transferred to and vested in the consolidated corporation.
It is true that the act uses the term "ne w corporation," but it
uses the term to distinguish the consolidated corporation from
those composing it. In that limited sense, but not in the legal
sense, it is a new corporation.
4. The present charter of the Maine Central Railroad Corn
pany consists of the several charters of the original companies,
which are now merged into the present company. Its rights,
powers, and privileges, as to any particular portion of its railroad, must be determined from these charters, and not from
the consolidating act. Such has been the uniform decision of
this court, as is shown by the cases already cited.
In Chesapeake, &e. Railroad C/o. v. Virginia (94 U. S. 718),
the court says (p. 7"25), in effett, that it has been settled by its
repeated decisions, that when two companies consolidate, with
all the rights, privileges, and immunities of each, and one had
an exemption and one had not, the consolidated company takes
the one with the exemption, and the other without, - a doctrine expressly in conflict with the right of the State to the
tax in question.
If the immunity from taxation, therefore, now claimed originally existed, and was not affected by the consolidation of 1862,
it was not impaired by the consolidation of 1,574. See also
The Dzlaware Railroad Tax Case, 18 Wall. 206, and Central
Railroad, &e. Co. v. Georgia, 92 U. S. 663.

RAILROAD

CO. V. MAINE.

[Sup. Gt.

Mr.Lueius A. Emery, Attorney-General of Maine, contra.
1. The Maine Central Railroad Company, which came into
existence in 1862, was not a revival nor a continuation of the
consolidating corporations. By the very terms of the act of
1856 creating it, it was a new corporation with a different
name, and it was to have a separate board of directors. All the
rights, franchises, and property of the old corporations were
"transferred to and vested in" it. Its distinct and independent existence is made apparent by the fourth section of the
act, which provides that the old corporations shall still retain
an existence, though in an attenuated form, for the purpose of
protecting their respective creditors. Although it was not, in
fact, organized until 1862, nevertheless, the sole source of and
authority for its existence was that act. Assuming that the
act can be repealed, the simple words, "the act of 1856 is
hereby repealed," would dissolve this new corporation. Its
franchises were conferred upon it, not by the old companies,
but by the legislature. The old corporations were incorporated in 1845; the new one, in 1856. The old corporations
gave up their rights, property, and franchises, and had no existence for active duties. Their organization was gone. They
had neither president nor directors. They surrendered their
respective charters. Their franchises returned to the legislature which gave them, and were granted by it to the new
corporation. The latter was a new birth, without the sin of
exemption from taxation. This view is sustained by the authorities. See State v. Sherman, 22 Ohio St. 411; McMahan
v. Morrison, 16 Ind. 172; Olearwvater v. Meredith et al.,
1 Wall. 25.
2. The new corporation became at once subject to the act of
1831, which is an essential provision of every subsequent act
of incorporation, and is as much a part of the act of 1856 as if
it were therein specially set forth. The right of the legislature
to annul or repeal such subsequent act is, therefore, unquestionable, unless it contains "an express limitation or provision
to the contrary." The limitation must be expressed, directly
and in terms.
3. Every presumption will be indulged against the intention
of the legislature to surrender the power of taxation. The

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD CO. V. MAINE.

language in which the asserted surrender is made must be clear
and unmistakable. Brie _ailway Co.v. Pennsylvania, 21 Wall.
492; Tucker v. Fergusonet al., 22 id. 527; Bailey v. Magwire, id.
215; St. Louis v. Boatman's Insurance & Trust Co., 47 Mo. 155.
4. The legislature could not have intended to exempt the
plaintiff in error from taxation. When it provided a specific
mode of taxation for the Androscoggin and Kennebec Company, and the Penobscot and Kennebec Company, and covenanted never to tax them in any other way, it imposed on
them certain duties. The directors of each corporation were
required to keep accounts of the expenses and earnings of its
zoad, and make a special report to the legislature when the
earnings were ten per cent per year upon the cost. If the
directors neither could nor would do this, the company would
be obliged to submit to some other form of taxation. So of the
treasurer. Now, each of these corporations of 1845 having surrendered its franchise to the legislature, and given up its or
ganization, has neither directors nor a treasurer to make report
and pay over. Each, so long as it stood ready to perform the
prescribed duties, was entitled to this exemption, and lost it the
moment it incapacitated itself from performing them.
MB . JUSTICE Finr,

after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The principal question for our determination is whether the
conditional and limited taxation, to which the two original
companies first consolidated were subjected, is extended to the
present corporation defendant after its second consolidation.
As the act of 1856, authorizing the first consolidation, conferred
upon the new corporation "all the powers, privileges, and
immunities" possessed by each of the consolidating companies,
and the act of 1873, by reference, adopts the same provisions, it
is contended that the new company is exempt from any other
taxation than that to which they were subjected, at least, tlat
so much of the road of the company as originally belonged to
those consolidating companies is thus exempt.
It is not questioned by counsel on either side that the charter
of a private corporation is a contract between the State and its
corporators, and protected under the Constitution of the United

RAILROAD CO. V. MAINE.

[Sup. Ut.

States, like any other contract, from legislation impairing its
obligation. This has been so often decided, that its statement
is only the repetition of an admitted legal principle. The only
question for serious inquiry, where legislation affecting the
charter is the subject of complaint, is whether it does in fact
impair the obligation of the contract; for there may he legislation touching the powers of the corporation which will not
have that result. Nor is it questioned by counsel that the
taxation, both in its mode and extent, may be so prescribed in
the charter as to preclude any subsequent interference by the
State with either. Repeated decisions of this court have so
adjudged ; though the right of one legislature to bind its suecessors in the exercise of its power of taxation, which is an
essential attribute of sovereignty, has met with frequent earnest dissent from a minority of the court.
The provision in the charters of the two original companies
was a clear conditional limitation upon the power of the State
to tax them. Language could not be made more direct and
positive. Only upon the annual net income received from the
roads of the companies above the ten per cent paid to the stockholders could a tax be imposed by the State, and then only a
portion of such net income could be exacted. "No other tax,"
said the charter, should ever be levied or assessed on the corporations, or any of their privileges or franchises. So long as
these companies were distinct corporations, only the tax thus
prescribed could be imposed upon them. But, when they were
merged in the new corporation, their distinct corporate existence ceased, except so far as their existence might be necessary
for the protection of their creditors or mortgagees, or those of
the new corporation. The conditions upon which the limitation of taxation was prescribed could be performed only while
tme companies were distinct corporations operating separate
lines. Those companies only were required to keep an account
of their disbursements, expenditures, and receipts, for the
inspection of the governor and council, and committees of the
legislature. Their treasurers only were bound to render to
the legislature, at the expiration of every year, exhibits under
oath of the net profits of their roads. Their directors only
were called upon to make a special report to the legislature,

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD

CO. V. MAINE.

whenever their annual income amounted to ten per cent upon
the cost and expenses of their roads. It was only upon such
report that the legislature was to determine the portion of the
income which should be received in lien of other taxes. The
new company was subject to no such duty of keeping an
account of the expenditures and receipts of the original lines;
its directors were not called upon to make any report as to the
income of such lines; nor was its treasurer required to make
any annual exhibit of the net profits derived from them. The
assets of all the companies were intermingled; and continuous
trains were run over the whole length of the several roads. It
would have been impossible to show what would have been the
profits of each road without the consolidation. Only an approxi
mation to them would have been attainable; and that would
have been based upon estimates more or less speculative in their
character.
The consolidation of the original companies was a voluntary
proceeding on their part. The law made it dependent upon
their agreement; and that law was presumably passed upon
their request, as they are named in it, and they acted under it.
Having thus disabled themselves from a compliance with the
conditions, upon the performance of which the amount to be
paid as a tax to the State could be ascertained, they must be
considered as having waived the exemption dependent upon
such performance. Their exemption was qualified by their
duties, and dependent upon them. They incapacitated themselves from the performance of those duties by a proceeding
which they supposed would give them greater advantages than
they possessed in their separate condition, and they thus lost
their exemption. The new company was not elfarged with the
duties which they were to perform to the State, and by which
the State was to be governed in its taxation, nor was the Stateunder any obligation to accept a substituted performance from
other parties.
The provision in the act authorizing the consolidation, that
the new company should have all the powers, privileges, and
immunities of the original companies, must, therefore, be taken.
with the qualification that it should have them so far as they
codd be exercised or enjoyed by it, with its different officer&

RAILROAD CO. V. MAINE.

[Sup. Ct.

and distinct constitution. Where their exercise or enjoyment
required other officers or a different constitution, the grant was
to that extent necessarily inoperative.
The Maine Central Railroad Company was, upon the consolidation of the original companies, a new corporation, as
distinct from them as though it had been created before their
existence. The fact that the powers, privileges, and immunities which they had possessed were conferred upon the new
company, so far as they could be exercised or enjoyed by it, in
no respect affected its character as a distinct body. A new
corporation may be as readily created by the union of two or
more corporations as by the union of individuals; and its
powers and privileges may as well be designated by reference
to the charters of other companies as by special enumeration.
It follows that the limitation of the taxing power of the
State to a portion of their net income prescribed in the charters
of the old companies ceased upon their consolidation into the
Maine Central. When this new company came into existence,
it became subject to the provisions of the general law of 1831,
which declared that any act of incorporation subsequently
passed should at all times thereafter "be liable to be amended,
altered, or repealed, at the pleasure of the legislature, in the
same manner as if an express provision to that effect were
therein contained, unless there shall have been inserted in such
act of incorporation an express limitation or provision to the
contrary." Although this provision could not bind any succeeding legislature which might choose to disregard it, so long as
it remained unrepealed, subsequent legislation not repugnant
to it was controlled by it, and must be construed and enforced
in connection with it. There was no limitation in the act
authorizing the consolidation, which was the act of incorporation of ti,- new company, upon the legislative power of amendment and alteration, and, of course, there was none upon the
extent or mode of taxation which might be subsequently
adopted. By the reservation in the law of 1831, which is to
be considered as if embodied in that act, the State retained the
power to alter it in all particulars constituting the grant to
the new company, formed under it, of corporate rights, privileges, and immunities. The existence of the corporation, and

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD CO. V. MAINE.

its franchises and immunities, derived directly from the State,
were thus kept under its control. Rights and interests acquired
by the company, not constituting a part of the contract of
incorporation, stand upon a different footing. But no such
rights or interests are here involved. New Jersey v. Yard, 95
U. S. 104; Tomlinson v. JessuTp, 15 Wall. 454.
The several cases cited by counsel from the decisions of this
court, upon the effect of consolidating several companies where
some of them possess an immunity from taxation, do not militate against the views here expressed. They are The Delaware
Railroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206; Central Railroad & Banking
Co. v. Georgia, 92 U. S. 665; and Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad Co. v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 718. In the Delaware Railroad
Tax Case, it appeared that three companies- one of which
owned a railroad in Pennsylvania, one a railroad in Maryland,
and one a railroad in Delaware- were consolidated into one
company under the legislation of those States. The act of
the legislature of Delaware declared that the respective companies should constitute one company, and be entitled to all
the rights, privileges, and immunities which each and all of
them possessed and enjoyed under their respective charters;
and one of those charters, which was granted by Maryland,
had exempted the shares of the capital stock of its company
from taxation. It was held that the provision in the Delaware
act in no respect affected its power of taxation upon the property of the new company in that State; that the new company
stood in each State as the original company had previously
stood in that State, invested with the same rights and subject
to the same liabilities; and that it was not the intention of
either Sfate to enforce within its limits the legislation of the
other. This decision has no bearing upon the questions
involved in the present case.
In Central Railroad & Banking Co. v. Georgia, it was held
that the consolidation of two railroad companies did not
necessarily work a dissolution of both and the creation of a
new corporationi, that whether such would be its effect depended upon the legislative intent manifested in the statute
under which the consolidation took place; that, in the case
under consideration, the two companies there mentioned were

RAILROAD

CO.

V. MAINE.

not dissolved by their consolidation;

[Sull. Ot.

that the consolidated

company continued to possess all the rights and immunities

which were conferred upon each company by its original chatter; and, inasmuch as one of the companies was exempted from
liability to any greater tax than one-half of one per cent of its
net annual income, the exemption continued after the consolidation. Tie State, in that case, claimed that a new company
was the result of the consolidation, and that its charter was
then subject to repeal or modification, at the will of the legislature. The court replied, that if the charter of the company
having the exemption had been surrendered, and a new corporation created by the consolidation, the consequences claimed
by the State "might and probably would follow." There is
nothing in this decision which touches the case at bar.
In Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad Co. v. Virginia, it was held
that a railroad corporation, formed under an act of the legislature by the consolidation of existing companies, and "vested
with all the rights, privileges, franchise, and property which
may have been vested in either company prior to the act of
consolidation," acquired no greater immunity from taxation
than had been severally enjoyed by the original companies
as to the portions of the road belonging to them, and that
whatever property had been subject to taxation previous to
the consolidation remained so afterwards. This decision has
no application to the questions involved in the case before us.
In none of these cases were duties required of the original
companies and their directors and officers, which could not
have been equally discharged by the new companies, nor was
the extent or mode of taxation made dependent upon information to be imparted by officers who, upon the consolidation of
the companies, had ceased to exist.
We have in this opinion made no reference to the charters
of the three railroad companies which were consolidated with
the Maine Central Company in 1874. It is admitted that the
charters of two of them contained no limitation upon the taxing power of the State. The third company incorporated in
18; 6, obtained, by an act passed in 1845, a conditional exemption from taxation, like that in the charters of the two companies in the first consolidation. A mortgage upon its road and

Get. 1877.]

.ATHERTON

V.

FowLER.

franchise was, in 1862, foreclosed by the mortgagees, who
acquired the property and formed a new corporation. This
new corporation was, by the statute which authorized it,
declared invested with the legal rights and immunities of the
original corporation. When it afterwards consolidated with
the Maine Central, its rights and immunities passed to that
company, only to the extent and subject to the same limitations
as those of the original two companies.
It follows that there is no error in the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Maine; and it is, therefore,

4flirmed.

MR. JUSTICE STRONG dissented.

ATHERTON v. FowLER.
1. No right of pre-emption can be established by a settlement and improvement
on a tract of public land where the claimant forcibly intruded upon the
possession of one who bad already settled upon, improved, and enclosed that
tract.
2. Such an intrusion, though made under pretence of pre-empting the land, is but
a naked, unlawful trespass, and cannot initiate a right of pre-emption.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
MT. Montgomery Blair for the plaintiff in error.

1H. 5S. . Phillips, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case originates in an action of replevin brought by Page,
who died during the progress of the litigation, and is now represented by Atherton, his executor, the plaintiff in error. The
plaintiff below obtained possession of the hay, which was the
subject of the writ of replevin; but, on trial before a jury, they
found he was not entitled to the possession, and judgment for
the value of the hay was rendered against him. This judgment was affirmed on appeal to the Supreme Court of the State,
and is now brought before us for review on questions which
VOT. V1.

33

