CASEY v. NATIONAL

BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

CASEY v. NATIONAL BANx.
The ruling in Casey v. Ca,.aroc (supra, p. 4137), as to what constitutes a valid
pledge of securities, so far as third persons are concerned, applied to this
case.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
This case arose upon a bill filed by Casey, receiver of the New
Orleans National Banking Association, to recover certain notes
and bills receivable claimed by the defendants, the National
Park Bank of New York, and E. H. Reynes & Brother, to
be held by way of pledge for certain advances made to the
bank by the National Park Bank of New York. The Circuit
Court dismissed the bill, and he appealed to this court.
Mr. J. D. Rouse afid Mr. Charles Case for the appellant.
Mr. Thomas Allen Clarke, eontra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is, in all essential respects, similar to that of Casey v.
Cavaroe, supra, p. 467. On or about the 4th of June, 1873,
E. H. Reynes, on behalf of the New Orleans National Banking
Association, applied to the National Park Bank of New York for
a loan of $150,000, upon the notes of the former, to be secured
by a pledge of collaterals. On the 11th of June, the president
of the Park Bank, at New York, addressed a letter to Charles
Cavaroc, president of the New Orleans National Banking Association, in which he says: "Mr. E. H. Reynes has made an
application for a loan to the New Orleans National Banking
Association, to be secured by the bills receivable of the bank.
We will loan you $75,000, payable Oct. 10, and $75,000,
payable Oct. 20, next. As collateral to these notes, select
$170,000 of your bills receivable of best known names; retain
them as deposited by us, sending us a schedule and receipt for
held in trust for us and subject to our order." On
them, -as
the 1]th of June, Cavaroc, as president of the New Orleans
Bank, sent to the Park Bank, in a letter, two notes of the
tormer for $75,000, each payable as agreed, and a list of notes

Oct. 1877.]

CASEY

v. NATIONAL BANK.

and bills receivable, amounting to about $170,000, with a
receipt appended thereto, as follows: "NEw ORLEAws, June 11, 1873.
"Received, in trust, for account of the National Park Bank of
New York, from the New Orleans National Banking Association,
$170,084.42, of bills receivable described in annexed statement;
said bills receivable being given by the New Orleans National Banking Association, as collateral security of their notes, due respectively
on the 10th and 20th of October next, 1873, each for the sum of
$75,000, payable to the order of the National Park Bank of New
York.
C. CAvAoc, -President."

In the letter in which these papers were enclosed, Cavaroc,
after referring to the two notes, says: "I further enclose statement of $170,084.42, of bills receivable, held in trust and as
collateral security for the punctual payment of the obligations
of the bank, -ith a receipt for the same. As fast as the bills
receivable will mature and be paid, I beg the privilege of
substituting new collaterals, of which due notice will be given
you." The Park Bank, in a letter of June 17, assented to
this request, as follows: "You can make the change of collaterals you mention, advising us of the same, and that you hold
the new paper the same as the old; viz., in trust." Thereupon the two notes were discounted, and the Bank of New
Orleans drew the money therefor.
The bills receivable, specified in the list referred to, were
placed in an envelope by the note clerk, handed to Cavaroc,
and by him handed to the cashier, who, for a while, kept them
in the safe; but afterwards delivered them back to the note
clerk for convenience of collecting and renewing those which
matured. The same substitutions of particular notes and bills
were made from time to time, as was done in case of the Soci6t6
de Crddit Mobilier, new lists were made, and finally they were
delivered to Cavaroc after the failure of the bank, who handed
them to E. I. Reynes & Co., to keep for the Park Bank of
New York.
The bills were never removed from the bank, and were never
indorsed by it, until the bank failed; and were always kept
on the portfolio of bills receivable, without any entry on

CASEY V. SCHUCHARDT.

[Sup. CL

the books or in the reports to show that they had been
pledged.
It is evident that the same rule must be applied to this case
which was applied in that of the Credit Mobilier. T"]here was
no such possession by or on behalf of the Park Bank as would
constitute a valid pledge as to third persons.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to enter a decree for the complainant below in conformity with this opinion; and it is
8o ordered.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE,
TICE IIAitLA dissented.

A.

JUsTMcE FIELD, and MR. Jus-

CASEY V. SCHUCHARDT.
The ruling in Casey v. Cavaroc (supra, p. 467) applied to this case.

APPEAL from lthe Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Louisiana.
This case arises upon a bill filed by Casey, receiver of the
New Orleans National Banking Association, to recover from
Schnchardt & Souns and C. Cavaroc & Son certain securities
claimed by them to be held by way of pledge for certain
advances made to that institution by Schuchardt & Sons. A
decree was made by the Circuit Court dismissing the bill, and
from that decree lie appealed.
1r. J. D. Rouse and -41Mr. Charles Case for the appellant.
ir. Conway Robinson, contra.
MAR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The case is similar to that of Casey v. Cavaroc (supra, p. 467).
Szhuchardt & Sons were bankers in New York, through whom
the New Orleans National Banking Association was in the
habit of drawing on foreign houses, and who indorsed and dis.

