CASEY V. SCHUCHARDT.

[Sup. CL

the books or in the reports to show that they had been
pledged.
It is evident that the same rule must be applied to this case
which was applied in that of the Credit Mobilier. T"]here was
no such possession by or on behalf of the Park Bank as would
constitute a valid pledge as to third persons.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to enter a decree for the complainant below in conformity with this opinion; and it is
8o ordered.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE,
TICE IIAitLA dissented.

A.

JUsTMcE FIELD, and MR. Jus-

CASEY V. SCHUCHARDT.
The ruling in Casey v. Cavaroc (supra, p. 467) applied to this case.

APPEAL from lthe Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Louisiana.
This case arises upon a bill filed by Casey, receiver of the
New Orleans National Banking Association, to recover from
Schnchardt & Souns and C. Cavaroc & Son certain securities
claimed by them to be held by way of pledge for certain
advances made to that institution by Schuchardt & Sons. A
decree was made by the Circuit Court dismissing the bill, and
from that decree lie appealed.
1r. J. D. Rouse and -41Mr. Charles Case for the appellant.
ir. Conway Robinson, contra.
MAR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The case is similar to that of Casey v. Cavaroc (supra, p. 467).
Szhuchardt & Sons were bankers in New York, through whom
the New Orleans National Banking Association was in the
habit of drawing on foreign houses, and who indorsed and dis.

Oct;. 1877.]

OASEY

V. SCHUCHARDT.

posed of the dratts, or transmitted them for collection, and
made advances thereon. They were thus in the habit ofindorsing and advancing on bills drawn by the bank on Seignouret Fr~res, of Bordeaux. In August and September they
became uneasy, and required security; and it was agreed between
them and the bank that they would receive and indorse drafts
on Seignouret Fr~res, and accept the drafts of the bank on
themselves to a certain limited amount, upon being secured by
a pledge of commercial securities, to be deposited in the hands
of Charles Cavaroc & Son. In pursuance of this arrangement,
on the 17th of September, the bank transmitted to Schnchardt
& Sons its drafts on Seignouret Fr~res to the amount of 250,000
francs, and, at the same time, drew on Schuchardt & Sons
against said drafts for the sum of $50,000. On the same day,
or the day following, securities of the bank to the amount of
$60,000 were selected by the note clerk, by direction of Charles
Cavaroc, president of the bank, put into an envelope indorsed
with the name of Schuchardt & Sons, and handed to Cavaroc,
who handed them to the cashier; and thereafter they were
treated in precisely the same manner as the securities which
were selected for the Credit Mobilier and the Park Bank, as
shown in the cases which have just been decided. When due
they were collected or renewed, and when wanted by the bank
for other purposes they were taken and used, and other securi.
ties were substituted in their place. They continued to remain
and figure on the books of the bank and in its statements as
belonging to the mass of its bills discounted, no memorandum
was made of the transaction, and no transfer was made of the
bills until after the failure of the bank. As in the other
-cases referred to, they were never out of the possession of the
officers of the bank, or out of the bank for a single moment,
but were always subject to its disposal. As the only claim
made by Schuchardt & Sons, in their answer, to the securi
ties in question is by way of pledge, and as there was no
such delivery and retention of possession by them, or their
agents or trustees, as the law requires, to constitute the privilege of a pledge as to third persons, their claim cannot be
-sustained. The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the

CASEY V. SCHNEIDER.

[Sup. CL

case remitted with directions to enter a decree for the complainant below in conformity with this opinion; and it is

So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE, MP.u. JUSTICE

FiED, and Mn. Jus-

TICE HARLAN dissented.

CASEY v. ScHNME.
Under the statute of Louisiana relating to pledges of negotiable and other securities, which was in force in the year 1873, when the transaction in this case
took place, the actual delivery of such securities was sufficient to constitute a
pledge.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The bill in this case was filed by Casey, receiver of the New
Orleans National Banking Association, against Louis Schneider,
George Jonas, and Patrick Irwin, the original defendants, who
were trustees for the New Orleans Clearing-house, to compel
them to deliver up notes and bills receivable and other securities to the amount of $223,677.25, and other assets to the
amount of $57,500, which were pledged to the said trustees to
secure the payment of clearing-house certificates issued to
said bank to the amount of $199,000, from the 25th of September, 1873, to the time of its failure, Oct. 4 in that year, to
enable it to settle its daily balances and exchanges with the
other banks of the city represented in said clearing-house.
These securities were delivered to the trustees in pledge as
aforesaid at or before the issue of the clearing-house certificates which they were intended to secure; and said securities,
or the proceeds thereof, were, until the bringing of this suit,
kept by the trustees in their own possession for the purposes for
which they had been pledged.
The articles of association, or agreement under which this
transaction took place, were contained in an act passed before
a notary-public on the 24th of September, 1873, when the several
banks temporarily suspended cash payments under the influence

