SAGE V. RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

to the same, deducible of record, from the United States; and
that the defendant subsequently acquired the title to the premises, in pursuance of the contract, the rule being that such an
adverse possession, if uninterrupted and continued for the
period of seven years, is equivalent to an absolute title, when
confirmed by a conveyance from the party having a connected
title deducible of record, from the United States. Examined
in the light of these suggestions, it is clear, in my opinion, that
the case was properly submitted to the jury, and that the judgment founded on their verdict should be affirmed.

SAGE v. RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. An appeal lies here from the final decree of the Circuit Court confirming a saie
made under its order.
2. After the term at which such final decree was rendered, any justice of this
court may, within the time prescribed by law, allow an appeal, and approve
the bond which is to operate as a supersedeas.
3. A general appearance waives all defects in a citation.
4. The refusal of the Circuit Court to accept a siquersedeas bond, when offered
during the term at which the decree was rendered, does not take from a
judge of that court, or a justice of this court, the power to approve one
thereafter.
MOTION.
1. To dismiss the appeal. 2. To vacate the supersedeas.
Mr. Hf. B. Turner and Mr. J. C. Bullitt in support of the
motions.
31-r. N. A. Cowdry and Hr. B. T. Hlerrick, contra.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

This case was before us at the last term, upon a motion to
dismiss an appeal from a decree entered Oct. 22, 1875, and to
vacate a supersedeas upon that appeal. We denied the motion
to dismi:s, but vacated the supersedeas. The case is reported
in 93 U. S. 412.
After the vacation of the supersedeas, the decree of Oct. 22,
1875, was executed, July 18, 1877, by a sale of the mortgaged

Oct. 1877.]

SAGE v. RAILROAD CO.

property. The master having reported the sale to the court,
Sage, Cowdrey, & Buell, -who had been admitted as defendants in the suit, for the purpose of an appeal from the former
decree, filed exceptions; which were overruled, Aug. 31, 1877;
and an order was entered confirming the sale, and directing the
master to convey the property sold to the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company,-the purchaser, in trust for the parties interested in the purchase under the provisions of the trust-deed, as
defined in the original decree. At the same time, a deed of
conveyance executed by the master was presented; and the
court ordered that it be delivered to the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company, and recorded. Afterwards, during the same
day, Sage, Buell, & Cowdrey, in open court, prayed an appeal
to this court, from certain orders entered in the cause, Oct. 21,
1875, and from the decree of confirmation, and "each and every
other order made in the cause, Aug. 31, 1877." They also
asked that security for a supersedeas might be accepted and
approved. The court entered an order allowing the appeal;
but refused to accept a supersedeas bond, or, as it is expressed
in the order, refused the supersedeas. The bond for the appeal
was fixed at $1,000, to be made to the clerk of the court, in
trust for whom it might concern, approved by one of the judges
of the court, and filed within thirty days. No bond of any kind
was executed at that time.
On or about the 15th of September, 1877, Sage, Buell, &
Cowdrey presented to Mr. Justice Hunt, of this court (and a
justice assigned to a different circuit from that in which" the
district of Iowa is situated), a petition setting forth the taking
of an appeal by them, in open court, from the order of Aug.
31,and its allowance; and stating, further, that "no supersedeas
bond was given or approved." They thereupon tendered a
bond, payable to the clerk of the court, in the sum of $20,000,
which they asked that justice to approve and allow "to'operate
as a supersedeas bond in the . . . cause." The security being
satisfactory, the bond was "approved to operate as a supersedeas
when the same was filed in the office of the clerk of the Circuit
Court of the United States at Des Moines, Iowa;" and it was
so filed Sept. 22, 1877.
On the 24th of September, 1877, Sage and Cowdrey executed

SAGE v. RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ct

another bond, payable to the clerk, in the sum of $1,000, conditioned according to law, for a supersedeas; which was approved
by the district judge for the district of Iowa, and filed in the
2lerk's office, Oct. 11, 1877.
The appellees now move to dismiss the appeal; or, in case
that motion shall not be granted, for a vacation of the supersedeas.
1. As to the appeal.
It is clear that this appeal does not bring up for examination
the orders of Oct. 21, 1875. Every proceeding in the cause
which was prior to Oct. 22, 1875, must be examined, if at all,
tinder the appeal from the decree of that date still pending
here.
. The only order made Aug. 31, 1877, which is in the nature
of a final decree, is that confirming the sale, and directing the
conveyance to the purchaser by the delivery of the deed presented and approved.
We have often decided that a decree confirming a sale, if it is
final, may be appealed from. Blossom v. Railroad Company,
I Wall. 655; Butterfield v. Usher, 91 U. S. 246. In this case
it is final, so far as title under the sale is concerned. It cuts off
the equity of redemption by the railroad company and the
junior mortgagees and general creditors, except as provided in
the decree of Oct. 22; and passes the title to the purchaser, subject to certain trusts already fixed by the court, over which the
present appellants have control only through their appeal from
the former decree. No reversal of any order hereafter made
will necessarily divest this title. The proceedings hereafter
will relate only to the disposition of the property acquired by
the purchase and the proceeds of the sale. For relief against
the sale, resort can alone be had to an appeal from the decree
of confirmation.
2. As to the supersedeas.
The statute makes no provision in terms for the form of the
allowance of an appeal (Rev. Stat., sect. 692) ; but as there can
be no appeal without the taking of security, either for costs or
costs'and damages, and this is to be dcne by the court, or a judge
or justice, the acceptance of the security, if followed when necessary by the signing of a citation, is, in legal effect, the allowance

Oct. 1877.]

SAGE v. RAILROAD

00.

of an appeal. If the security is given and accepted in open
court during the term at which the decree appealed from is
rendered, no citation is necessary; because the parties, being
presumptively present during the whole term, are charged with
notice of all that is done affecting their interests. Whenever,
therefore, security for an appeal is accepted during the term, an
appeal is allowed. If the security is taken out of court, and
after the term, a citation should be issued to bring in the parties,
unless they voluntarily appear; for, until the security has been
accepted, the allowance of the appeal cannot be said to have
been perfected.
Whoever can sign a citation may allow an appeal; and by
sect. 999, Rev. Stat., it is provided that this may be done by a
judge of the Circuit Court or a justice of this court. The power
is not confined to the justice assigned to the particular circui.
in which the court that rendered the decree is held. When,
,herefore, Mr. Justice Hunt accepted the security in this case,
he allowed an appeal, which, by reason of the form of the
security, was to operate as a supersedeas. No question in
respect to a citation arises, because the appellees have appeared.
The refusal of the Circuit Court to accept a supersedeas
bond when offered during the term, did not necessarily take
from a judge of that court, or a justice of this court, the power
to approve one thereafter. It is true that the bond accepted in
this case recites an allowance of an appeal in open court; but
this is mere surplusage, and does not affect either the appeal or
the validity of the bond. It may be that the form of the application was one calculated to mislead the judge, and that it
did do so; but the fraud, if any, was not such as, in our opinion,
would justify us in setting aside what has been done. We
are satisfied that the appellants were entitled to their appeal;
and that, if taken in time, the supersedeas followed as a matter
of law upon the giving of the necessary security. We ought
not to sst aside a supersedeas,in a case like this, simply because
the justice who approved the bond, and thus allowed the appeal which operated as a supersedeas, might have sent the
appellants to another judge with their application, if he had
known all the facts.
We are not now called upon to determine the effect of the

MORGAN

v. RAILROAD CO.

(Sup. Qt-

supersedeaswhich has been obtained; but we are of the opinion
that, to the extent it may properly operate as a stay of proceedings, it must be sustained.
The motions to dismiss the appeal and vacate the 8upersedeas
are consequently
Denied.

MORGAN v. RAILROAD COINPANY.
1. A party is not permitted to deny a state of things which his conduct or misrep
resentations led another to believe existed and to act in accordance with
that belief.
2. The doctrine of estoppel in pais always presupposes error on one side, and fault
or fraud upon the other, and some defect of which it would be inequitable
for the party against whom the doctrine is asserted to take advantage.
3. No particular form of words is required to the validity of a dedication. The
assent of the owner, and the use of the premises for the purposes intended
by the appropriation, are sufficient, and estop hii from revoking the dedication.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This suit was commenced by a bill filed by Morgan against
the Chicago and Alton Railroad Company. It involves the
ownership of two strips of land adjoining that over which that
company has the right of way, and forming part of its depot
grounds iin the town of Dwight, in the State of Illinois, which
it claims to own as grantee of all the rights and property of the
Chicago and Mississippi Railroad Company.
The company filed a cross-bill, wherein it set up the dedication of the property to the public use, and that Morgan was
estopped in pais from denying it. The court, upon hearing,
dismissed the original bill, and decreed in favor of the company
on the cross-bill. Morgan thereupon appealed here. The
remaining facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Hfamilton Spencer, for the appellant, cited He1c Williams v.
lorgan, 61 Ill. 89; Todd v. Pittsburgh,Fort Wa!yne, & Chicaqo
Rail-road Co., 19 Ohio St. 514; Gentleman v. Soule, '2 ill.
271; felly v. City of Chicago, 48 id. 388; Rees v. City of
Chicago, 38 id. 322; Jacksonville v. Jacksonville Railway Co.,

