Oct. 1877.]

HAWKINS

HAWE

V. UNITED STATES.

S V. UXITED STATES.

1. A. agreed to furnish the United States a number of cubic yards of rubble-stone,
for the construction of a public building under a contract which, after prescribing the dimensions of the material, and the price to be paid therefor,
provided that no departure should be made from its conditions, without the
written consent of the Secretary of the Treasury. Such consent was not
given. The assistant superintendent, in charge of the erection of the building, declined to receive certain of the stones, although they were within the
description of the contract; and required A. to furnish others of a different
and more expensive kind, which the latter did. Held, that, as A. was bound
to take notice of the fact that the assistant superintendent had no power to
vary the contract, lie is only entitled to recover according to its terms.
2 The question of agency discussed.

from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

r'. Enoch Totten for the appellant.
Mr. Assistant-Attorney- General Smith, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

Verbal agreements between the parties to a written contract,
made before or at the time of the execution of the contract, are
in general inadmissible to vary its terms or to affect its construction, the rule being that all such verbal agreements are to
be considered as merged in the written instrument. But oral
agreements subsequently made, on a new and valuable consideration, and before the breach of the contract, in cases not falling
within the Statute of Frauds, stand upon a different footing; as
such agreements may, if not within the Statute of Frauds, have
the effect to enlarge the time of performance, or may vary any
other of its terms, or may waive and discharge it altogether.
Emerson v. Slater, 22 How. 28; Goss v. Nugent, 5 Barn. & Ad.
58; Nelson v. Boynton, 3 Met. (Mass.) 396; Harvey v. Grabham, 5 Ad. & E. 61; Leonard v. Vredenburgh, 8 Johns. (N. Y.)
28; Chitty, Contr. (10th ed.) 105.
Authority was conferred upon the Secretary of the Treasury,
by the act of the 10th of June, 1872; and he was therein directed to cause to be erected a suitable building at Raleigh,
North Carolina, for the use and accommodation of the courts of
voL. v.

44

HAWKINS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. O.

the United States, post-office, and other offices of the government, with fire-proof vaults extending to each story of the building. 17 Stat. 390.
Pursuant to that authority, the contract in question was
made by the superintendent appointed for the purpose, with
the plaintiff, to furnish and deliver, on the site for the building.
one thousand cubic yards, more or less, of rubble-stone, on his
bid for the same; it being covenanted and agreed between the
parties that the "contract shall be valid and binding when
approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, and not otherwise,
and that no departure from its conditions shall be made with
out his written consent."
By the terms of the contract, the rubble-stone was to be in
e,}ery way equal to the sample furnished with his bid: onequarter to be bond-stones, of a length equal to the thickness of
the walls, and to contain not less than ten cubic feet ; and no
stone to contain less than one and one-half cubic feet, or to be
less than twelve inches thick, to be delivered at such times and
in such quantities as may be deemed necessary by the superintendent. Monthly payments were to be made, as the work
progressed, for ninety per cent of the stone delivered, at five
dollars per cubic yard; it being stipulated that ten per cent
should be retained until the completion of the contract and the
approval and acceptance of the same by the superintendent.
Leave to amend having been granted, the petitioner enlarged
his charge for work done, and claimed that there was a balance
due to him of $8,962.50, after deducting cash paid, and the
rubble-stone quarried and rejected before it was shipped. Hearing was had, and the court rendered judgment for the plaintiff
in the sum of $1,566.50, as appears by the transcript. Immediate appeal was taken to this court by the plaintiff; and he
assigned the errors following: 1. That the court below erred
in the measure of damages which they adopted in the case.
2. That the court erred in not holding that the claimant is entitled to recover the fair value of the material delivered and
accepted, without regard to the price prescribed by the contract. 3. That the court should have computed the stone furnished as nine hundred and fifty-eight and three-fourths cubic
yards, at $12.50 per yard, as the value of the stone delivered.

Oct. 1877.]

HAWKINS V. UNITED STATES.

Congress directed the Secretary of the Treasury to cause the
building to be erected, and appropriated $100,000 to accomplish the object; the same act providing that the money appropriated should be expended under the direction of the
Secretary, and that he should cause proper plans and estimates
to be made, so that the whole expenditure for the construction
and completion of the building should not exceed the amount
of the appropriation. Neither limitations nor precautions are
always effectual in such cases; and Congress, at the next session, found it necessary to make another appropriation of the
same amount, for the same object: but the provision that the
Secretary of the Treasury should cause the building to be
erected, and that the money appropriated should be expended
under his direction, was never repealed or modified. 17 Stat.
524; 18 id. 228.
Such being the state of congressional legislation, it necessarily follows that the contractor, as well as the superintendent.
knew that the appropriations were to be expended by the Seeretary, and that no one else was authorized to direct as to the
character and construction of the building. Individuals as well
as courts must take notice of the extent of the authority conferred by law upon a person acting in an official capacity; and
the rule applies, in such a case, that ignorance of the law furnishes no excuse for any mistake or wrongful act. State, ex rel.
d5c. v. Hayes, 52 Mo. 578; Delafield v. The State of illinois, 26
Wend. (N. Y.) 91; The People v. The Phoenix Bank, 24 id. 480:
The 31ayor and City Council of Baltimore v. Reynolds, 20 Md. 1;
Titeside v. United States, 93 U. S. 247.
Different rules prevail in respect to the acts and declarations
of public agents from those which ordinarily govern in the case
of mere private agents. Principals in the latter category are in
many cases bound by the acts and declarations of their agents,
even where the act or declaration was done or made without
any authority, if it appear that the act was done, or the declaration was made, by the agent in the course of his regular
employment; but the government or public authority is not
bound in such a case, unless it manifestly appears that the
agent was acting within the scope of his authority, or that he
had been held out as having authority to do the act, or make

HAWKINS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot,

the declaration, for or on behalf of the public authorities
Story, Agency, '07 a; Lee v. Munroe, 7 Cranch, 366.
Fifty cubic yards of rubble-stone were quarried, shipped, and
delivered by the contractor soon after the contract was executed, which was rejected by the assistant superintendent of
the work, and he refused to receive any of the same description. By the finding of the court, it appears that the rubblestone rejected was such as came within the description and
standard of the small-sized stone required by the contract, and
that the assistant superintendent informed the claimant of the
kind which must be furnished to make such a wall as he
wanted; which was, in fact, what is called ranged-rubble or
broken-ashlar stone, more expensive in kind than that described by the contract, and which would make a wall superior
in appearance to that contemplated by the specifications. Two
hundred and thirty cubic yards of rubble-stone bad then been
quarried by the claimant, and were ready for transportation and
delivery. Wheeler, Civil Engineering, 209.
Throughout, the claimant maintained that he thought that
the stone lie had delivered was up to the contract: but he expressed the desire to furnish such material as would give perfect satisfaction to the government and their agents; and he
quarried, transported, and delivered, within the period mentioned in the finding, nine hundred and fifty-eight and threefourths cubic yards of ranged-rubble or broken-ashlar stone,
different from that described in the contract, and worth $12.50
per cubic yard when delivered. These stones so furnished
were cut, trimmed, and squared by the workmen, so as to fit
the same for such a wall as the assistant superintendent desired to make, it appearing that one-fourth part of the measurement of the stone was lost by such fitting. Apart from
that, the findings of the court also show that the market-value
of the fifty cubic yards of the rubble-stone rejected, and of the
two hundred and thirty cubic yards quarried and not shipped,
was $456.80, which is nearly $350 less than the cost of quarrying the said quantity not shipped.
Tested by these considerations, it is clear that the measure
of damages adopted by the Court of Claims is correct.
Three items were allowed to claimant. as follows: 1. For

,Oct. 1877.]

O AW

INS V. UNITED STATES.

nine hundred and fifty-eight and three-fourths cubic yards of
stone delivered, at the contract price of five dollars per yard,
less the amounts paid to him in the settlement of his account.
2. Forty-five cubic yards of rubble-stone delivered, and rejected
by the assistant superintendent, at the contract price, less the
market value of the same. 8. For two hundred and thirty
cubic yards of stone quarried, and refused by the assistant superintendent, at the cost of quarrying, less the market value.
Sufficient appears to show that the ,contract was never rescinded by either party, and that the claimant never signified
any intention to abandon it. All that is proved in that regard
is that he maintained that the first parcel of stone delivered
was up to the contract; and that he protested, in presence of
the inspector and superintendents, that he was required to
furnish stone superior to that described in the contract, and
that he announced to them his intention to make claim for
extra allowance. Four payments were made to the claimant,
amounting in all to $83,825; and it appears that the vouchers
were generally made out upon estimates in advance of the
work actually done at the time, copies of which, with the certificate of the superintendent and the receipts of the claimant,
are exhibited in the record. ,
Evidence of the most persuasive and convincing character, to
show that the whole quantity of the stone for which compensation is claimed was delivered under the contract, is exhibited
in the record; and it is equally certain that the claimant knew
that the agents in charge of the work had no authority whatever to enlarge or diminish, vary or alter, any of its terms, stipulations, or conditions, as the contract itself provided that no
departure from its condition shall be made without "the written consent of the Secretary of the Treasury." Confirmation
of that view is also derived from the act of Congress which conferred the authority to make the contract; the language of the
act being that the money appropriated shall be "expended under
the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, and that he shall
cause proper plans and estimates to be made, so that the whole
expenditure for the erection and completion of the building shall
not exceed the sum appropriated for that purpose." 17 Stat.
990.

HAWKINS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Aid in the construction of the contract may be derived from
the advertisement under which the bids were received, as the
advertisement is expressly referred to in the written contract.
Bids were invited by the advertisement for one thousand cubic
yards, more or less, of rubble-stone . . . which is flat on the
bed, sound, durable, and which breaks with a clean, square
fracture; one-quarter to be bond-stones of a length equal to the
thickness of the walls, and to contain not less than ten cubic
feet. No stone containing less than one and one-half cubic
feet, or less than twelve inches in thickness, will be received.
Wheeler, Civil Engineering, 140.
Nothing can be plainer than the proposition that the contract
was framed in conformity with the advertisement and the act
of Congress, which provided in effect that the erection and
completion of the building should be under the direction of the
Secretary of the Treasury. Both parties concur in the construction of the written contract; but the claimant undertakes
to set up a subsequent implied contract between himself and
the assistant superintendent.
Beyond doubt, it is true that subsequent oral agreements
between the parties to a written contract, not falling within the
Statute of Frauds, if founded on a new and valuable consideration, may, when made before the breach of the written contract,
have the effect to enlarge the time of performance specified in
the written instrument, or may vary any other of its terms, or
may waive and discharge it altogether. Emerson v. Slater, 22
How. 28; Goss v. iNugent, 5 Barn. & Ad. 58; Leonard v. Vredenburqh, 8 Johns. (N. Y.) 28.
Concede that proposition in its fullest extent, and yet it cannot benefit the claimant, as the findings of the court furnish no
ground whatever to show that any subsequent parol agreement
was ever made between the contracting parties to vary, enlarge,
or diminish any of the terms of the written contract; nor is
any thing of the kind pretended by the appellant. What he
alleges is, that he was required by the assistant superintendent
to furnish better stone than that specified in the written agreement. Proof of that allegation is exhibited; but there is not a
particle of proof that the assistant superintendent ever promised
that the United States should pay for the stone delivered any

Oct. 187d

HAWKINS V. UNITED STATES.

greater sum than five dollars per cubic yard; and, if he bad so
promised, it could not benefit the claimant; as the contract under
which he rendered the service, and under which the four payments to him were made, contained the express stipulation that
no departure from the conditions of the contract should be made
without the written consent of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Four times, his accounts for rubble-stone delivered were adjusted during the progress of the work, in accordance with the
terms of the written contract, as follows: 1. For three hundred
cubic yards of rubble-stone at five dollars per cubic yard. 2. For
two hundred cubic yards of rubble-stone at five dollars per cubic
yard, and the account refers to the written contract as the basis
of the charge. 3. For one hundred and fifty cubic yards of
rubble-stone at five dollars per cubic yard, less ten per cent
retained, and again refers to the wiitten agreement as the
source of explanation. 4. For two hundred cubic yards of
rubble-stone at five dollars per cubic yard, less ten per cent
reserved, with a similar reference to the written agreement foT
the necessary explanation.
Appended to each is the customary certificate of the superintendent, and the receipt of the claimant for the amount of the
charge, stating that it is received "in full payment of the
above account." Proofs more persuasive and convincing that
the work was done and that the payments were made under
the written agreement can hardly be imagined; and they are
certainly sufficient to show that the court below committed no
error, either in the findings of fact or in their conclusions of
law.
Ranged-rubble or broken-ashlar stones are usually of a larger
size tfian ordinary rubble-stones; and the former when trimmed
are suitable to make a wall of coursed masonry, as if con
structed of squared stone of different sizes, resembling somewhat
a wall constructed of dimension-stones. Loss to a considerable extent is sustained by the cutting and trimming, sc
that the stone measures less in the wall than when first quar
tied. Such a wall is more expensive than one made of mere
rubble-stone, on account of the increased cost of the stone, and
the additional labor in cutting and fitting the same before it is
Laid in the wall.

HAWKINS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Rubble-stones flat on the bed, with certain other conditions.
were specified in the advertisement; but the assistant superintendent desired to construct a wall which required a rangedrubble stone. Mutual consent is required to modify a contract;
and of course the directions of the assistant superintendent
were not obligatory, for two reasons: 1. Because in contem
plation of law he was not a party to the contract ; 2, because
he had no authority to act in behalf of the United States.
Viewed in that light, it is clear that the claimant might have
declined lo follow the directions given, or, if not allowed to
complete his contract, might have maintained an action for
damages. When the directions were given, he might have
refused to comply and given notice to the United States; and, if
he had done so, the proper authority would have had an opportunity to determine whether the directions given should be
overruled, or whether the wall should be constructed as proposed by the assistant superintendent. Nothing of the kind
was done, and the opportunity was lost to the United States to
exercise any option in the matter. Instead of that, the claimant
readily submitted to the directions given by the unauthorized
agent, without giving any notice to the proper authority of the
United States that he should claim any greater compensation.
Subsequent complaints were made by him, in the presence of
the superintendents, that he was required to furnish a superior
stone to that required by the contract; and at one time he
announced his intention to make claim for extra allowance,
which is in fact what the claimant now demands.
Two facts are the chief reliance of the claimant; to wit,
1, that the stone delivered is better than that which the claimant contracted to furnish ; 2, that the United States accepted
the material, and is now in the full enjoyment of the same.
Based on these facts, the proposition of the claimant is that he
is entitled to recover the actual value of the materials, without
refereuce to the contract price: which cannot for a moment be
admitted, as the findings show that the written contract was in
full force and operation, no attempt having been made by
either party to vary or rescind it; and that the claimant acted
under it in furnishing and delivering the stone; and that the
public authorities, also, in adjusting his accounts and in making

Oct. 1877.]

HAWKINS v. UNITED STATES.

the payments referred to, conformed in all respects to its
terms, stipulations, and conditions.
Unquestioned authority was given to the Secretary of the
Treasury to make the contract; and he in contemplation of law
made ft when he approved the instrument signed by the claimant and the superintendent. Even the claimant does not. pretend that any other contract was ever approved by the Secretary,
nor does he pretend that the assistant superintendent ever
promised to pay any greater sum than the original contract
price. All the claimant ever suggested was, that he intended
to make claim for extra allowance, for which there is no pretence of any express contract; nor can such a claim be supported, under the circumstances of this case, upon any implied
promise, the record showing that the express contract was in
full force and operation. Ladd v. Franklin,37 Conn. 62.
Express stipulations cannot in general be set aside or varied
by implied promises; or, in other words, a promise is not
implied where there is an express written contract, unless the
express contract has been rescinded or abandoned, or has been
varied by the consent of the parties. Hence the rule is, that, if
there be an express written contract between the parties, the
plaintiff in an action to recover for work and labor done, or for
money paid, must declare upon the written agreement so long
as the special agreement remains in force and unrescinded, as
he cannot recover under such circumstances upon a quantum
meruit. 1 Story, Contr. (5th ed.), sect. 18; Selway v. Fogg,
5 Mees. & W. 83; Creighton v. City of Toledo, 18 Ohio St.
447; Weston v. Davis, 24 Me. 374; Witing v. Sullivan, 7 Mass.
107 ; Merrillv. The _Thaca & Owego Railroad Co., 16 Wend. 586;
alacius et at. v. Black, 50 N. Y. 145.
When a special contract for work and services has been
abandoned and put an end to, if the employer has derived some
benefit from work done under it, he may be made liable upon
an implied promise to make reasonable remuneration in respect
to such work. Burns v. Miller, 4 Taunt. 745; lnchbald v.
Plantation Company, 17 C. B. N. s. 783; Bartholomew v. Markwick, 15 0. B. N. s. 711; Addison, Contr. (6th ed.) 23.
Implied promises or promises in law exist only when there
is no express promise between the parties, - expressum facit

HAWKINS v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

cessare tacitum. Hence, says Chitty, a party cannot be bound
by an implied promise, when he has made an express contract
as to the same subject-matter; which is certainly sound law,
unless the express contract has been rescinded or abandoned.
Chitty, Contr. (10th ed.) 62; Toussaint v. lartinnant, 2 T. R.
100; Cutter v. Powell, 6 id. 320; Ferguson v. Carrington,9 B.
& C. 59; Atherton v. Dennett, Law Rep. 7 Q. B. 327..
Apply these principles to the case before the court, and it is
clear that none of the errors assigned can be sustained; the rule
being that, where the service is performed under an express
contract, there can be no recovery where there is no proof of
a breach of the agreement. Where there is a breach of the
agreement, an action will lie for the breach; but, if there be no
breach, no action will lie, as an implied assumpsit does not arise
in such a case, unless it be shown that the parties have abandoned the express agreement, or have rescinded or modified it
so as to give rise to such an implication. Tie ilMayor and City
Cowncil of Baltimore v. Bschbach, 18 Md. 276.
Jurisdiction is not conferred upon the Court of Claims to
allow mere extra allowances in a case where there is no promise
to that effect, either express or implied. Power to hear and
determine claims founded upon any law of Congress, or upon
any regulation of an executive department, or upon any contract, express or implied, with the government of the United
States, and all claims which may be referred to it by either
house of Congress, is vested in the Court of Claims. Mere
applications for extra allowance, unsupported by any contract
express or implied, must be made to Congress, where alone they
can properly be entertained. Rev. Stat., sect. 1039.
Judgment affirmed.

