AMcGARRAHAN

V. MINING CO.

[Sup. Or.

only the exercise of its discretion, and cannot be made the
subjct of review by this court.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE. - In San Antonio v. B.--"q P-nr to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District o0 -ab, which was argued by Mr. Thomas J.
Durant for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Robert Sewell for the defendant in

error,

AIR.

JUSTICE SWAYNE,

in delivering the opinion of the court, remarked:

This case is in all respects substantially the same with that of San Antonio v.
ffehaffy, just decided. The opinion in that case is decisive of this.
Judgment affirmed.

McGARRAHAN v. MIN 1TG CO-MPAN-Y.
1. The statutory provisions prescribing the manner in which a patent of the
United States for land shall be executed are mandatory. No equivalent
for any of the required formalities is allowed, but each of the integral acts
to be performed is essential to the perfection and validity of such an, instrument. If, therefore, it is not actually countersigned by the recorder of the
General Land-Office in person, or, in his absence, by the principal clerk of
private land claims as acting recorder, it is not executed according to law,
and does not pass the title of the United States.
2. The record in the volumne kept for that purpose at the General Land-Office
at Washington, of a patent which has been executed in tle manner which
the law directs, is evidence of the same dignity and is subject to the same
defences as the patent itself. If the instrument, as the same appears of
record, was not so executed, and was therefore insufficient on its face to
transfer the title of the United States, the record raises no presumption
that a patent duly executed was delivered to and accepted by the grantee.
8 Te act of larch 3, 1843 (5 Stat. 627), in relation to exeniplifications of
records, does not dispense with the provisions of law touching the signing
and countersigning. The record, to prove a valid patent, must still show
that they were complied with. The names need not be fully inserted in
the record, but it must appear in some form that they were actually signed
to the patent when it was issued.
4. The failure to record a patent does not defeat the grant.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of California.
This was ejectment by William McGarrahan in the District
Court of the Twentieth Judicial District of California in and for
Santa Clara County, against the New Idria Mining Company,
to recover possession of certain lands in that State known as
the Rancho Panoche Grande. He claimed them under a patent
therefor which he alleged had been issued by the United States
SVicente P. Gomez, his grantor, under the act of Congress to

Oct. 1877.]

MCGARRAHAN V. MINING

CO.

ascertain and settle the private land claims in the State of California, approved March 3,1851. 9 Stat. 631. The patent was
not produced upon the trial; but the plaintiff put in evidence
a certified copy of an instrument, as the same was recorded in
a volume kept at the General Land-Office at Washington for
the recording of patents of the United States for confirmed
Mexican land grants in California, being volume 4 of such
records, upon pages 312-321 inclusive. The concluding portion
of that copy is as follows: "In testimony whereof, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the
United States, have caused these letters to be made patent, and the
seal of the General Land-Office to be hereunto affixed.
"Given under my hand at the city of Washington, this fourteenth
day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and sixty-three, and of the independence of the United States the
eighty-seventh.
ABRAHAI Lncon .
"By the President:
[L. s.]
By W. 0. STODDARD,

" Secretary.

"Acting Recorder of the General Land-Office."

As the only question decided by this court is, whether the
exemplification admitted on the trial of the cause shows upon
its face the execution of a patent sufficient in law to pass the
title of the United States, no reference is made to the other
points which arose in the court below and were elaborately
discussed by counsel here.
The District Court rendered judgment for the defendant,
which was affirmed by the Supreme Court. McGarrahan then
sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Montgomery Blair, iifr. Matt. . Carpenter, and Mr.
Charles P. Shaw, for the plaintiff in error.
The recording of a document which the law authorizes to be
recorded is evidence of the pre-existence of all that is necessary to authorize the recording. Parrarv. Pessenden, 39 N. H.
268; AcCauley et al. v. State, 21 Md. 556; Warner v. Hfardy,
6 id. 525; Barton v. Murrain, 27 Mo. 235; Pattersonv. Winn,
5 Pet. 239.
The requirement that patents for lands shall be comtersigned
by the recorder of the- General Land-Office is merely directory,

MCGARRAHAN V. MINING CO.

[Sup. Ct.

and the countersigning of such an instrument is not essential
to its validity. Sedgwick, Stat. and Const. Law, 368-374;
Rex v. Inhabitants of Birmingham, 9 Barn. & Cress. 925; Cob"
v. Green, 6 Man. & G. 872; Gale v. Head, 2 Den. (N. Y.)
160; Marchant v. Langworthy, 3 id. 526; People v. Livingston,
8 Barb. (N. Y.) 253; Juliand v. Rathbone, 39 id. 101; Ayres
v. Stewart, I Overt. (Tenn.) 221; Hickman v. Boffman, Hard.
(Ky.) 348; Spencer v. Lapsley, 20 How. 264; United States
v. Sutler, 21 id. 170; WTilliams v. Sheldon, 10 Wend. (N. Y.)
654; Redden v. Overton, 4 Bibb (Ky.), 406; Exum v. Brister,
35 Miss. 391; Blount v. Benbury, 2 Hayw. (N. C.) 542;
Philipsv. -Erwin,1 Overt. (Tenn.) 235; Reid's Lessee v. Dodson, id. 313; Lessee of Stephens v. Bear, 3 Binn. (Pa.) 31;
Lessees of Welter v. Beecher, 3 Wash. 375.
If the name of the recorder be omitted in the record, the
first section of the act of March 3, 1843 (5 Stat. 627), cures
the defect, by making the mere record of the patent conclusive
of its due execution, and copies of such record of the same
validity in " evidence as if the names of the officers signing
and countersigning the same had been fully inserted in said
record."
Mr. Jeremiah S. Black, contra.
Patents for private land claims are not valid unless counter-

signed and sealed by the recorder of the General Land-Office.
2 Stat. 716, sect. 8; 5 id. 111, sect. 6; id. 416, sects. 1, 2;
United States v. The Commissioner, 5 Wall. 563; The Secretary
v. Me Garrahan,9 id. 244; 3 Op. Att'y-Gen. 140, 167, 630.
MR. CIIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Federal question in this case is, whether the record in
the volume kept at the General Land-Office at Washington for
the recording of patents of the United States issued upon California confirmed Mexican grants, relied upon by MlcGarrahan
as evidence of his title, proves a conveyance by the United States
of the land in controversy to Vicente P. Gomez, his grantor.
In his behalf, it is contended that the record is itself the grant;
or, if not, that it proves the issue to Gomez of a patent which
does grant the legal title to the property described.

Oct. 1877.]

MCGARRAHAN V. MINING CO.

That the record is not itself the grant of title is evident.
The thirteenth section of the act "to ascertain and settle the
private land claims in the State of California" (9 Stat. 631)
provides, that, "for all claims finally confirmed, . . . a patent
shall issue to the claimant upon his presenting to the General
Land-Office an authentic copy of such confirmation and a plat
of the survey," &c. By sect. 8 of the "act for the establishment of a general land-office in the Department of the Treasury" (2 id. 717), it is enacted, that "all patents issuing from
the said office shall be issued in the name of the United States
and under the seal of said office, and be signed by the President
of the United States, and countersigned by the commissioner of
said office, and shall be recorded in said office in books to be
kept for the purpose." Thus the patent executed in the prescribed form which issues from the General Land-Office is
made the instrument of passing title out of the United States.
The record of this patent is evidence of the grant, but not the
grant itself. It is evidence of equal dignity with the patent,
because, like the patent, it shows that a patent containing the
grant has been issued.
The record called for by the act of Congress is made by
copying the patent to be issued into the book kept for that
purpose. The effect of the record, therefore, is to show that
an instrument such as is there copied has actually been prepared for issue from the General Land-Office. If the instrument as recorded is sufficient on its face to pass the title, it is
to be presumed that the grant has actually been made; but if
it is not sufficient, no such presumption arises. In-short, the
record, for the purposes of evidence, stands in the same position"
and has the same effect as the instrument of which it purports
to be a copy. The same defences can be made against the
record as could be made against the instrument recorded. The
public records of the executive departments of the government
are not, like those kept pursuant to ordinary registration laws,
intended for notice, but for preservation of the evidence of the
transactions of the department.
This brings us to inquire whether this record shows upon its
facb the execution of a patent sufficient in law to transfer the
title of the premises in controversy from the United States.

MOGARRAHAN V. MINING CO.

[Sup. Ct.

And here it may not be improper to note, that although the
case shows that in July, 1870, before this suit was commenced,
the commissioner of the General Land-Office and the recorder
caused to be entered upon the face of the record, over their
official signatures, a statement to the effect that the instrument
in question was never in fact executed or delivered, McGarrahan rests his whole case upon the record and the evidence it furnishes. This he has the undoubted right to do; but, if he does,
he must stand or fall by what it proves. It is his own fault, if,
having a valid patent in his possession, he fails to produce it.
By the first section of the "Act to reorganize the General
Land-Office" (5 Stat. 107), it was provided that the executive
duties relating "to private claims of land, and the issuing of
patents for all grants of land under the authority of the
government of the United States, shall be subject to the supervision and control of the commissioner of the General LandOffice, under the direction of the President of the United
States;" and by the fourth section, " that there shall be appointed by the President, by and with the consent of the
Senate, a recorder of the General Land-Office, whose duty it
shall be, in pursuance of instructions from the commissioner.
to certify and affix the seal of the General Land-Office to al
patents for public lands, and he shall attend to the correct engrossing and recording and transmission of such patents. He
shall prepare alphabetical indexes of the names of patentees,
and of persons entitled to patents. . . ." By the sixth section,
it was further provided that "it shall be lawful for the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of
the Senate, to appoint a secretary, . . . whose duty it shall be,
under the direction of the President, to sign, in his name and
for him, all patents for lands sold or granted under the authority
of the United States." By the second section of the act of
March 3, 1841 (id. 416), the duty of countersigning patents
was transferred from the commissioner of the General LandOffice to the recorder. Thus it appears that a patent for lands
must be signed in the name of the President, either by himself
or by his duly appointed secretary, sealed with the seal of the
General Land-Office, and countersigned by the recorder. Until
all these things have been done, the United States has not

Oct. 1877.]

McGARIAIIAN V. MINING CO.

executed a patent for a grant of lands. Each and every one of
the integral parts of the execution is essential to the perfection
of the patent. They are of equal importance under the law,
and one cannot be dispensed with more than another. Neither
is directory, but all are mandatory. The question is not what,
in the absence of statutory regulations, would constitute a valid
grant, but what the statute requires. Not what other statutes
may prescribe, but what this does. Neither the signing nor
the sealing nor the countersigning can be omitted, any more
than the signing or the sealing or the acknowledgment by a'
grantor, or the attestation by witnesses, when by statute such
forms are prescribed for the due execution of deeds by private
parties for the conveyance of lands. It has never been doubted
that in such cases the omission of any of the statutory requirements invalidates the deed. The legal title to lands cannot be
conveyed except in the form provided by law.
But if either of the requisites to the due execution of a patent
may be considered as directory, the countersigning by the recorder should not be permitted to occupy that position. The
President may sign by his secretary, but the recorder must
sign himself. He countersigns, that is to say, signs opposite
to and after the President, by way of authentication. Being
specially charged with the duty of attending to the issue of
patents, it is peculiarly appropriate that his attestation should
be the last act to be performed in the perfection of the instrument, and that he should do it personally.
The record in this case shows an instrument in the form of
a patent, signed in the name of the President, and sealed. The
place for the signature of the acting recorder is left blank. The
name of the President is signed by his secretary. The claim,
-which is made, that Stoddard, the secretary, also countersigned
as acting recorder, is not sustained by the evidence. His signature appears only as secretary, and there is nothing whatever
to indicate that he attempted to act as recorder. Besides, the
law provides (5 Stat. 111, sect. 8), "that whenever the office
of recorder shall become vacant, or in case of the sickness or absence of the recorder, the duties of his office shall be performed
ad interim by the principal clerk on private land claims." It
certainly is not to be presumed that the same person will hold
vo.. Vi.

21

822

MCGARRAHAN

V. MINING

0.

[Sup. Ct.

at the same time the offices of secretary to the President for
signing patents, and of principal clerk on private land claims
And if it were, his signature as secretary will not be treated as
his signature as recorder ad interin or acting recorder. He
must sign both as secretary and as recorder.
The case is, therefore, one in which the record shows upon
its face an instrument prepared for a patent but not countersigned by the recorder. If a patent thus defectively executed
had itself been introduced in evidence, it would not have shown
*agrant actually perfected. But it is said that the record of
the paper is evidence of the fact that the recorder recognized
its completeness, and is equivalent to its countersignature. The
law is not satisfied with the simple recognition of the validity
of a patent by an officer of the government. To be valid, a
patent must be actually executed. Before it can operate as
a grant, the last formalities of the law prescribed for its execution must be complied with. No provision is made for an
equivalent of these formalities. Even an actual delivery of
the patent by the recorder in person would not supply the
place of his countersignature, any more than the delivery of a
paper by a private person without being signed would make it
his deed. But the record of a patent would not be necessarily
as much a recognition of its validity as a personal delivery by
the recorder, because he only attends to the recording, and is
not required to do it in person. The only way in which he
can lawfully and effectually recognize the validity of a patent
is by personally countersigning it.
Again, it is said that the act of March 3, 1843 (5 Stat. 627),
remedies the defect, because it provides "that literal exemplifications of any such records which may have been or may be granted
in virtue of the provisions of the seventh section of the act, ...
entitled ' An Act to reorganize the General Land-Office,' slall be
deemed and held to be of the same validity in all proceedings,
whether at law or in equity, wherein such exemplifications are
adduced in evidence, as if the names of the officers signing and
counlersigning the same had been fully inserted in such record."
This act does not, however, dispense with the signing and countersigning. The record, to prove a valid patent, must still show
that these provisions of the law were complied with. The

Oct. 1877.]

MCGARRAHAN V. MINING

00.

names need not be fully inserted in the record, bat it must
appear in some form that the names were actually signed to
the patent when it issued. If they are partially inserted in the
record, it will be presumed that they fully appeared in the
patent; but no such presumption will be raised if no signature
is shown by the record. Here no signature does appear, and
consequently none will be presumed.
The failure to record the patent does not defeat the grant.
It only takes from the party one of the means of making his
proof. If he can produce the patent itself, and that is executed
with all the formalities required by the law, he can still maintain his rights under it. He is not, therefore, necessarily deprived of his title because of a defective record. He is in no
worse condition with the signatures omitted than he would
have been if the description of his land had been erroneously
copied, or other mistakes had been made which rendered the
record useless for the purposes of evidence. A perfect record
of a perfect patent proves the grant; but a perfect record of an
imperfect patent, or an imperfect record of a perfect patent,
has no such effect. In such a case, if a perfect patent has in
fact issued, it must be proved in some other way than by the
record. It is undoubtedly true, that, when a right to a patent
is complete and the last formalities of the law in respect to its
execution and issue have been complied with by the officers of
the government charged with that duty, the record will be
treated as presumptive evidence of its delivery to and acceptance by the grantee. But until the patent is complete, it
cannot properly be recorded, and consequently an incomplete
record raises no such presumption.
Again, it is said that the record of an instrument which the
law requires to be recorded is prima facie evidence of the validity of the instrument. That is undoubtedly true, if the
instrument recorded is apparently valid. The presumption
arising from the record is, that whatever appears to have been
done, actually was done. If the record shows a perfect instrument, the presumption is in favor of its validity; but if it shows
an imperfect instrument, a corresponding presumption follows.
Here the instrument recorded appears to have been incomplete,
and consequently it must be presumed to be invalid. This pre-

AMES V. QumIBY.

LSup. Ct.

sumption will continue until overcome by proof that the instrument as executed and delivered was valid.
We are of the opinion that, because this record does not show
a patent countersigned by the recorder, it is not sufficient to
prove title in the party under whom MeGarrahan claims. This
makes it unnecessary to consider any of the other questions
which have been argued; and the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD and MR. JUSTICE
part in the decision of this cause.

HARLAN took no

AmES v. QumBry.
A contract for furnishing goods at a certain price, based on the then value of
gold, stipulated that such price should be increased or reduced with the rise
or the fall in that value, with a proviso, however, that a rise or a fall of twentyfive per cent, unless it remained sufficiently long to affect the general price of
merchandise, should not change the contract price of the goods. When they
were delivered, gold had undergone a reduction of more than twenty-five per
cent below its value at the date of the contract. Ield, that in a suit on the
contract the purchaser was entitled to a corresponding reduction in the contract price of the goods, without showing that the decline in gold had affected
the general price of merchandise.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Western District of Michigan.
Quiinby brought an action against Ames & Sons, upon the
following contract, viz.: "N. EASTON, Jan. 2, 1865.
"Mr. Ichabod L. Quimby agrees to furnish us, and we to take
from him, fifteen thousand dozen long shovel-handles, to be of the
best quality of timber and workmanship, for the present year, the
price to be ($1.25) one dollar and twenty-five cents per dozen, basing
the price on the present price of gold, $2.25.
" If the price of gold goes up or down, then the price of handles
shall be advanced or reduced accordingly. But it is understood
that no advance or reduction of the price of gold of twenty-five
per cent shall change the price of handles, unless it shall remain at
the advanced or reduced rate sufficiently long to affect the general
price of merchandise.
"I. L. Qunmy.
"OLIVER AMES & SoNs."

