BRAWLEY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

after that time, it follows that it could not operate upon this
land in favor of the company.
This disposes of the only Federal question in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

BBAWLEY v. UNITED STATES.
L Where a contract is made to sell or furnish certain goods identified by reference to independent circumstances, such as an entire lot deposited in a certain warehouse, or all that may be manufactured by the vendor in a certain
establishment, or that may be shipped by his agent or correspondent in
certain vessels, and the quantity is named, with the qualification of "about,"
or "more or less," or words of like import, the contract applies to the specific lot, and the naming of the quantity is regarded not as in the nature of
a warranty, but only as an estimate of the probable amount, in reference to
which good faith is all that is required of the party making it.
2. But where no such independent circumstances are referred to, and the engagement is to furnish goods of a certain quality or character to a certain
amount, the quantity specified is material, and governs the contract.
8. If, however, the qualifying words, "about," "more or less," and the like, are
supplemented by other stipulations or conditions which give them a broader
scope or a more extensive significancy, then the contract is to be governed
by such added stipulations or conditions.
4. Previous and contemporary transactions and facts may be very properly taken
into consideration to ascertain the subject-matter of a contract, and the sense
in which the parties may have used particular terms, but not to alter or
modify the plain language which they have used.
. Accordingly, where an agreement was entered into between the United States
and a contractor, whereby the latter undertook to deliver at the post of
Fort Pembina eight hundred and eighty cords of wood "more or less, as
shall be determined to be necessary by the post-commander for the regular
supply, in accordance with army regulations, of the troops and employds
of the garrison of said post, for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1871,"
and the post-commander, as soon as the contract came to his knowledge,
and within four days after it was signed, notified the contractor that but
forty cords of wood would be required thereon, and forbade his hauling
any more to the government yard, - Held, that the United States was
not liable to the contractor for any number of cords beyond the forty
delivered.

from the Court of Claims.
This is a petition by Brawley to recover the amount of
eight hundred and forty cords of wood, at $3.99 per cord,
APPEAL

Oct. 1877.]

BRAWLEY

V. UNITED

STATES.

which the claimant alleges that he was prepared and ready
to furnish, under a contract entered into by the claimant with
Lieutenant-Colonel Holabird, Deputy Quartermaster-General
United States Army, in May, 1871. The principal article, and
that on which the present controversy arises, was in the following words: -

"I. That the said Daniel F. Brawley, his heirs, assignees, admin
istrators, and executors, shall sell, furnish, and deliver, cut and split
in lengths of four (4) feet, duly piled or corded under the direction
and supervision of the post-quartermaster, within the enclosure of
the post of Fort Pembina,Dakota Territory, eight hundred and eighty
(880) cords of sound, of first quality, of merchantable oak wood,
more or less, as shall be determined to be necessary, by the postcommander, for the regular supply, in accordance with army regulations, of the troops and employgs of the garrison of said post, for the
fiscal year beginning July 1, 1871, and ending June 80, 1872. The
delivery of eight hundred and eighty (880) cords to be completed
on or before Jan. 1, 1872; but any additional number of cords of
wood that may be required over and above that amount may be
delivered from time to time, regulated by the proper military authorities, based upon the actual necessities of the troops for the
period above mentioned; provided, that if the wood be less than
four (4) feet in length, due allowance shall be made for such shortage by an increased quantity, the cubical contents of the wood being
measured in all cases. Delivery on this contract to begin on or
before July 15, 1871, unless the time be extended by the command.
ing officer of the post."
It appears by the findings of the Court of Claims that said
contract was entered into in pursuance of an estimate made
by the proper officer of the quartermaster's department, and
after an advertisement for proposals, upon -which the claimant
made a bid which was accepted, - the quantity named being
.eight hundred and eighty cords of wood or more. The bids
were opened April 15, 1871. The contract was awarded to
the claimant May 6, 1871, but, although dated on that day, it
was not executed until about the 14th of June. About the
18th of the latter month, the post-commander of Fort Pembina
first learned of it, and informed the claimant that but forty
zords of wood would be required thereon, and forbade his haul-

BRAWLEY v.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Cto

ing any more to the government yard. On the 1st of July,
written notice was given to him to the same effect.
But "before the contract was signed, the claimant had cut
the eight hundred and eighty cords of wood, had taken ten oxteams, with teamsters, wood-haulers, and supplies from Saint
Cloud and Sauk Centre, Minnesota, a distance of three hundred
and sixty miles, to Pembina, for the purpose of hauling the
wood; and fifty-five cords thereof had been hauled to the fort
by permission, and with the understanding that the claimant
assumed all risk regarding the acceptance of the same. And
twenty cords more were hauled there by him, upon the same
understanding, before he received any notice that only forty
cords would be received on the contract. Subsequently he
hauled eight hundred cords to within about twenty-five rods of
the fort, and left the same on the land of Mr. Myrick, because
the wood, if left in the forest where it was cut, was in danger
of being destroyed by the fires which annually run through that
region.
"Forty cords of wood only were received and accepted by the
post-commander, and for that the claimant has been paid according to the contract.
"The balance of the wood cut and hauled by the claimant remained where it was deposited by him until the autumn of
1873, when it was sold by said Myrick to one Stiles, a government contractor, for $3.62 a cord.
"The post of Fort Pembina did not in fact need for the fiscal
year commencing July 1, 1871, more than the forty cords of
wood which were accepted by the defendant."
The Court of Claims dismissed the petition, and the claimant
appealed.
jMr. John B. Sanborn for the appellant.
The negotiations between the parties preceding the execution
of the contract should be considered in connection with it, in
order to ascertain their precise intention at the time of making
it. 1 Greenl. Evid., p. 128, sect. 8; id., pp. 129, 130, and authorities cited; Robinson v. Fiske, 25 Me. 401; ffiqgins v.
Wasgalt, 34 id. 305; Ietcaf v. Taylor, 36 id. 28; Wilson v.
Troup, 2 Cow. (N. Y.) 196.
In a contract of this character, a specific quantity, if not

Oct. 1877.]

BRAWLEY V. UNITED STATES.

designed to be furnished, should not be mentioned. Fair dealing prohibits it; and the United States, above all others, should
deal openly and fairly.,
Where the words "more or less" are used in an executory
contract in connection with a definite quantity, the law gives
them only such force as may be necessary to relieve the par
ties from the precise quantity. A fixed quantity, with these
words added in such a contract, can in no case have the force
of the words, "so much as may be required." Benj. Sales,
569-571, and authorities cited.
All contracts for supplies for the army are required by law
to be made on estimates, and hence for specific quantities.
-Vie Solicitor-General, contra, cited Grant v. United States,
7 Wall. 331 ; Gwillim v. Daniell, 2 Cromp., M. & R. 61 ; Hay.
ward v. S&ougall, 3 Camp. 58; Pembroke Iron Co. v. Parsons
5 Gray (Mass.), 589; Robinson v. .Noble's Adm'rs, 8 Pet. 181
Lobenstein v. United States, 91 U. S. 324.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
From an examination of the authorities, it seems to us that
the general rules which must govern this case may be expressed
as follows: Where a contract is made to sell or furnish certain goods
identified by reference to independent circumstances, such as
an entire lot deposited in a certain warehouse, or all that may
be manufactured by the vendor in a certain establishment, or
that may be shipped by his agent or correspondent in certain
vessels, and the quantity is named with the qualification of
"about," or "more or less," or words of like import, the con
tract applies to the specific lot; and the naming of the quantity
is not regarded as in the nature of a warranty, but only as an
estimate of the probable amount, in reference to which good
faith is all that is required of the party making it. In such
cases, the governing rule is somewhat analogous to that which
is applied in the description of lands, where natural boundaries
and monumenuts control courses and distances and estimates of
quantity.
But when no such independent circumstances are referred to,

BRAWLEY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

and the engagement is to furnish goods of a certain quality or
character to a certain amount, the quantity specified is material,
and governs the contract. The addition of the qualifying
words, "about," "more or less," and the like, in such cases, is
only for the purpose of providing against accidental variations
arising from slight and unimportant excesses or deficiencies in
number, measure, or weight.
If, however, the qualifying words are supplemented by other
stipulations or conditions which give them a broader scope or
a more extensive significancy, then the contract is to be governed by such added stipulations or conditions. As, if it be
agreed to furnish so many bushels of wheat, more or less, according to what the party receiving it shall require for the use
of his mill, then the contract is not governed by the quantity
named, nor by that quantity with slight and unimportant variations, but by what the receiving party shall require for the use
of his mill; and the variation from the quantity named will
depend upon his discretion and requirements, so long as he acts
in good faith. So where a manufacturer contracts to deliver
at a certain price all the articles he shall make in his factory
for the space of two years, "say a thousand to twelve hundred
gallons of naphtha per month," the designation of quantity is
qualified not only by the indeterminate word "say," but by the
fair discretion or ability of the manufacturer, always provided
he acts in good faith. This was the precise decision in Gwillim v. .Daniell, 2 Cromp., MN.& R. 61, where Lord Abinger
says: " The agreement is simply this, that the plaintiff under
takes to accept all the naphtha that the defendant may happen
to manufacture within the period of two years. The words, ' say
from one thousand to twelve hundred gallons [per month],' are
not shown to mean that the defendant undertook, at all events,
that the quantity manufactured should amount to so much. If
by fraud the defendant manufactured less than he ought to
have done, the breach should have been shaped accordingly.
Here it does not appear that, in the ordinary course of his
manufacture, the defendant ought to have produced a larger
quantity than he has done; and we cannot, therefore, say that
he has broken his contract."
We think that there is manifest reason in this decisi.)n, and

Oct. 1877.]

BRAWLEY v. UNITED STATES.

that the present case is within it. The contract was not for the
delivery of any particular lot, or any particular quantity, but to
deliver at the post of Fort Pembina eight hundred and eighty
cords of wood, " more or less, as shall be determined to be necessary by the post-commander for the regular supply, in accordance
with army regulations, of the troops and employds of the garrison
of said post, for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1871." These
are the determinative words of the contract, and the quantity
designated, eight hundred and eighty cords, is to be regarded
merely as an estimate of what the officer making the contract
at the time supposed might be required. The substantial engagement was to furnish what should be determined to be
necessary by the post-commander for the regular supply for
the year, in accordance with army regulations. The post-commander, as soon as he learned of the contract, and within four
days after it was signed, informed the claimant that but forty
cords of wood would be required thereon, and forbid his hauling
any more to the government yard. About a fortnight later, on
the 1st of July, 1871, written notice to the same effect was
served on the claimant, signed by the post-commander. And
the Court of Claims finds, as a'fact, that the post of Fort Pembina did not need for the fiscal year in question more than the
forty cords of wood which were accepted by the defendants; thus
precluding any plea that, in fixing and determining the amount
required, the post-commander was actuated by any want of good
faith.
Reference is made to the previous negotiations which led to
the making of the contract, the bid of the claimant, the fact
that the contract was awarded to him on his bid as early as
May, and that, on the faith and expectation that the quantity
named would be wanted, he had cut the eight hundred and
eighty cords of wood before the contract was signed.
All this is irrelevant matter. The written contract merged all
previous negotiations, and is presumed, in law, to express the final
understanding of the parties. If the contract did not express
the true agreement, it was the claimant's folly to have signed
it. The court cannot be governed by any such outside considerations. Previous and contemporary transactions and facts
may be very properly taken into consideration to ascertain the

FERGUSON v. M CLAUGHLIN.

[Sup. CL

subject-matter of a contract, and the sense in which the parties
may have used particular terms, but not to alter or modify
the plain language which they have used.
Judgment affirmed.

FERGUSON v. McLAUGHLIN.
Under sect. 6 of the act of March 3, 1853 (10 Stat. 244), a settler upon unsurveyed public lands in California has no valid claim to pre-etapt a quartersection, or any part thereof included in his settlement, unless it appears by
the government surveys, when the same are made and filed in the local landoffice, that his dwelling-house was on that quarter-section.

ERROR

to the Supreme Court of the State of California.

iAr. J. A. loultrie for the defendant in error.
There was no opposing counsel.
MR. JUSTICE MiLLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The case before us was originally an action to recover possession of land, brought in the proper court of the State of
California.
The plaintiff proved a patent from the United States to the
Western Pacific Railroad Company, and a conveyance by said
company to him of the land in dispute. In conformity to the
practice in the courts of California, the defendant, Ferguson,
filed an answer in the nature of a cross-bill in equity, which
alleged that while plaintiff had the apparent legal title, he
held it, or should be decreed to hold it, for the benefit of the
defendant. The ground of this equitable right, briefly stated,
is, that the defendant had made a valid claim to the land
under the pre-emption laws before the inception of plaintiff's
title, and that although this matter had been contested before
the officers of the Land Department, and they had decided in
favor of the Western Pacific Railroad Company, yet that decision was erroneous in law and in fact; and he prayed the court
to decree him that relief which he was in equity entitled to.
The case was submitted to the court, whose findings of fact
are in the record, and whose judgment in favor of the plaintiff

