Oct. 1877.]

WATER & MINING

Co. v. BUGBEY.

WATER AND MiNIG8 COMPA_-N.y v. BUGBEY.
1. The act of March 3, 1853 (10 Stat. 244), granted for school purposes to Call
fornia the public lands within sections 16 and 36 in each congressional
township in that State, except so much of them whereon an actual settlement bad been made before they were surveyed, and the settler claimed
the right of pre-emption within three months after the return of the plats
of the surveys to the local land-office. If he failed to make good his claim,
the title to the land embraced by his settlement vested in the State as of the
date of the completion of the surveys.
2. In this case, the title of the State to the demanded premises, being part of a
school section, having become absolute May 19, 1866, a mining company
could, under the act of July 26, 1866 (14 Stat. 253), acquire no right to
them.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of the State of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Samuel Shellabargerand Mr.J.21 Wilson for the plain.
tiff in error.
Hr. Aaron A. Sargent, contra.
MR. CimF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was an action of ejectment, brought by Bugbey, the
defendant in error, against the Natoma Water and Mining
Company, the plaintiff in error, to recover possession of a part of
the south half of section 16, township 10 north, of range 8 east,
Mount Diablo base and meridian, in the State of California.
He claimed title by grant from the State, and the company
under the act of Congress of March 3, 1853, "to provide fol
the survey of public lands in California, the granting of pre-emption rights therein, and for other purposes" (10 Stat. 244),
and the act of July 29, 1866, "granting the right of way to ditch
and canal owners over the public lands, and for other purposes"
(14 Stat. 251).
The decision of the Supreme Court of California having been
against the title set up by the company, this writ of error was
brought. The facts affecting the Federal question in the case
are as follows: In 1851, the company commenced the construction of a canal
upon the unoccupied and unsurveyed public lands of the United

WATER & MINING

Co. v.

BUGBEY.

[Sup. Ct

States, for the purpose of supplying water to miners and others.
This canal was completed, at large expense, in April, 1853, and
the premises in controversy are included within its limits. By
the act of March 3, 1853 (10 Stat. 244), Congress provided for the
survey of the public lands of California, and granted sections
16 and 36 to the State, for school purposes. By sect. 7 of this
act, it was provided, "that where any settlement, by the erection
of a dwelling-house, or the cultivation of any portion of the
land, shall be made on the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections,
before the same shall be surveyed, . . . other land shall be
selected by the proper authorities of the State, in lieu thereof,
agreeably to the provisions of the act of Congress approved
May 20, 1826, . . ." 4 Stat. 179.
The survey of the lands in controversy was completed May
19, 1866, and the plats deposited in the United States landoffice for the district, June 16, 1866. At that time, Bugbey
was an actual settler upon the legal subdivision of the section
16 in which the premises are situated, and had thereon a
dwelling-house, and agricultural and other improvements. He
made no claim under the pre-emption laws of the United States.
Other persons were also in possession of other portions of the
section. The act of 1853 required (sect. 6) that, "where unsurveyed lands are claimed by pre-emption, the usual notice of
such claim shall be filed within three months after the return
of the plats of the surveys to the land-offices." On the 28th of
September, 1866, the register of the United States land-office
certified to the State land-office that no claim had been filed to
this section 16, except the pre-emption of one Hancock, which
was afterwards abandoned.
Sect. 9 of the act of July 26, 1866 (14 Stat. 253) is as
follows: "That whenever, by priority of possession, rights to the use of
water for mining, agricultural, manufacturing, or other purposes,
have vested and accrued, and the same are recognized and acknowledged by the local customs, laws, and the decisions of the courts,
the possessors and owners of such vested rights shall be maintained
and protected in the same; and the right of way for the construction
of ditches and canals, for the purposes aforesaid, is hereby acknowl
edged and confirmed: . . ."

Oct. 1877.]

W.AT

&

MINING

Co. v. BUGBBY.

The company has brought itself within the provisions of this
section, if at the time of the passage of the act the United
States held title to the lands.
On the 22d of April, 1867, Bugbey purchased the portion
of the section on which the premises in controversy are situated from the State of California, and took a patent. The
company does not in any manner connect itself with this title,
or with that of any other occupant of the section previous to
the survey.
In Sherman v. Buick (93 U. S. 209), it was decided that the
State of California took no title to sections 16 and 36, under the
act of 1853, as against an actual settler before the survey, claiming the benefit of the pre-emption laws, who perfected his claim
by a patent from the United States. In such a case, the State
must look for its indemnity to the provisions of sect. 7 of the
act. As against all the world, except the pre-emption settler,
the title of the United States passed to the State upon the
tompletion of the surveys; and if the settler failed to assert
his claim, or to make it good, the rights of the State became
absolute. The language of the court is (p. 214): "These
things [settlement and improvement under the law] being
found to exist when the survey ascertained their location
on a school section, the claim of the State to that particular piece of land was at an end; and it being shown in the
proper mode to the proper officer of the United States, the
right of the State to the land was gone, and in lieu of it she
had acquired the right to select other land, agreeably to the
act of 1826."
In that case, the controversy was between the settler, who
had perfected his title from the United States, and a purchaser
from the State. Here the company does not claim under the settler's title, but seeks by means of it to defeat that of the State,
and thus leave the land in a condition to be operated upon by the
act of July 26. The settler, however, -was under no obligation
to assert his claim, and he having abandoned it, the title of the
State became absolute as of May 19, 1866, when the surveys
were completed. The case stands, therefore, as if at that date
the United States had parted -ith all interest in and control
over the property. As the act of July 26 was not passed until

BRAWLEY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

after that time, it follows that it could not operate upon this
land in favor of the company.
This disposes of the only Federal question in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

BBAWLEY v. UNITED STATES.
L Where a contract is made to sell or furnish certain goods identified by reference to independent circumstances, such as an entire lot deposited in a certain warehouse, or all that may be manufactured by the vendor in a certain
establishment, or that may be shipped by his agent or correspondent in
certain vessels, and the quantity is named, with the qualification of "about,"
or "more or less," or words of like import, the contract applies to the specific lot, and the naming of the quantity is regarded not as in the nature of
a warranty, but only as an estimate of the probable amount, in reference to
which good faith is all that is required of the party making it.
2. But where no such independent circumstances are referred to, and the engagement is to furnish goods of a certain quality or character to a certain
amount, the quantity specified is material, and governs the contract.
8. If, however, the qualifying words, "about," "more or less," and the like, are
supplemented by other stipulations or conditions which give them a broader
scope or a more extensive significancy, then the contract is to be governed
by such added stipulations or conditions.
4. Previous and contemporary transactions and facts may be very properly taken
into consideration to ascertain the subject-matter of a contract, and the sense
in which the parties may have used particular terms, but not to alter or
modify the plain language which they have used.
. Accordingly, where an agreement was entered into between the United States
and a contractor, whereby the latter undertook to deliver at the post of
Fort Pembina eight hundred and eighty cords of wood "more or less, as
shall be determined to be necessary by the post-commander for the regular
supply, in accordance with army regulations, of the troops and employds
of the garrison of said post, for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1871,"
and the post-commander, as soon as the contract came to his knowledge,
and within four days after it was signed, notified the contractor that but
forty cords of wood would be required thereon, and forbade his hauling
any more to the government yard, - Held, that the United States was
not liable to the contractor for any number of cords beyond the forty
delivered.

from the Court of Claims.
This is a petition by Brawley to recover the amount of
eight hundred and forty cords of wood, at $3.99 per cord,
APPEAL

