PRATT V. PRATT.

[Sup. Ct

which were running over and going to waste, acted in good
faith for the purpose of saving the property for themselves and
the government; that is, as we understand it, of saving the
property, and securing the tax to the government. If a purpose to evade the laws be an element in the offence charged,
the defendants could not, under the evidence presented by the
record, be rightfully subjected to the penalty prescribed and
the forfeiture of their property.
The judgment will be reversed, and case remanded for a
new trial; and it is
So ordered.

PRATT V. PRATT.
1. The Statute of Limitations applicable to the action of ejectment has no relation to the lien of a judgment creditor on the lands, though the judgment
debtor may sell and convey them with possession to the party setting up the
statute.
2. That statute does not begin to run in such case until the lands have been sold
under an execution sued out on the judgment, and the purchaser of them
becomes entitled to a deed; because, until then, there is no right of entry or
of action against the party so in possession.
3. That statute begins to run against the judgment creditor only when he is such
purchaser, and can bring ejcctment. These propositions are applicable to
the statute of Illinois of 1835 liniting actions for the recovery of lands
to seven years.

ERaO R to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Jerome Carty for the plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
MAfR.
JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejectment in which plaintiff in error was
plaintiff below. On the trial, lie proved title in Isaac Speer in
August, 1857, at which time lie recovered a judgment against
said Speer, under which the land in controversy was sold July
8, 1863, and a deed made to plaintiff, founded on that sale,
Feb. 24, 1865. There does not seem to be any question but

Oct. 1877.]

PRATT V. PRATT.

that this vested in the plaintiff the legal title to the land some
four years before the date of the commencemaent of this action,
which was the fifteenth day of May, 1869.
Defendant relied solely on the Statutes of Limitation of seven
years as found in the acts of the lilinois legislature of 1835
and 1839, p. 674 of the Revised Statutes of 1874. We are not
favored with any argument, oral or written, by the defendant
in error, and have had to find out for ourselves on what he bases
the defence of the court's ruling.
It does not appear that the defence under the act of 1889
was established; but the court instructed the jury that if they
believed certain facts were proved, which facts had reference
to the seven years' possession under the act of 1835, their verdict should be for the defendant.
The law of 1835 provides that, "No person who has or may
have any right of entry into any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, of which any person may be possessed by actual residence thereon, having a connected title in law or equity,
deducible of record from this State or the United States, or
from any public officer or other person authurized by the laws
of this State to sell such lands, for non-payment of taxes, or
from any sheriff, marshal, or other person authorized to sell
such land on execution. or under any order, judgment, or decree of any court of record, shall make any entry therein,
except within seven years from the time of such possession
being taken; but, when the possessor shall acquire such title
after the time of taking such possession, the lhnitation shall
begin to run from the time of acquiring title."
The defendant has, we think, brought himself within the
language of this section by sufficient proof, so far as actual possession for seven years under a connected title in equity deducible of record from the United States could do so. And, on this
proposition alone, the court told the jury to find for the defendant; but this instruction failed to give effect to other evidence
before the jury and undisputed, which, we think, had an important bearing on the case.
Upon an examination of the plaintiff's title, it will be seen
that he had no right of entry until Feb. 24, 1865. If the statute began to run against him at that time. it had not run seveip
vOr.. v45

PRATT V. PRATT.

[Sup. Ct

years, but only a little over four, when the suit was brought.
Nor was there a right of entry, or right of action, in any person against defendant during his entire possession, until the
marshal's deed was made to the plaintiff; for the reason that
the equitable title under which the defendant held possession
was derived from Speer. That is to say, after the judgment of
the plaintiff against Speer was rendered, and a lien on the land
thereby established in favor of the plaintiff, Isaac Speer, the
judgment debtor, conveyed the land to Thomas Speer, and
Thomas Speer conveyed to Samuel Roberts, and Samuel Roberts to Charles L. Roberts. The defendant connected his possession with this title, by showing a contract of purchase from
Charles L. Roberts. It is obvious, from this recital, that there
was no one who could lawfully enter upon the land in the
defendant's possession until the plaintiff's judgment lien had
become perfected into a legal title by sale and conveyance.
Was it the purpose of this statute that the period of limitation should begin against one who had a lien of record on the
land, but who was in no condition to make entry or bring suit,
and when the person in privity with him, that could otherwise
have made entry or brought suit, bad parted with that right to
the defendant?
The very first words of the section describe the person against
whom the act is directed as a person having a right of entry.
While no such strict construction can be maintained as that
this right of entry must be in the same person during the
entire seven years that possession is running in favor of the
defendant, it seems reasonable that this period of seven years is
not to begin when there was no right of entry in any one who
could oust the defendant. The principle on which the Statute
of Limitations is founded is the laches of the plaintiff in neglecting to assert his right. If, having the right of entry or
the right of action, he fails to exercise it within the reasonable
time fixed by the statute, he shall be for ever barred. But this
necessarily presupposes the existence of the right of entry or
the right to bring suit. There can be no laches in failing to
bring an action, when no right of action exists. There can be no
neglect in asserting a right to the possession of property held
by another. when that other is in the rightful possession.

Oct. 1877.]

PRAYr£ v. PRA'T.

But the possession then rightful may, by the termination of
the right under which it is held, or by the creation (in some
legal mode) of a superior title, cease to be rightful. The right
of possession may, in some of these modes, come into another.
It is then "that laches begins, if the person who has thus acquired the better right neglects to assert it. And it is then
that the principle of the limitation of actions for recovery of
the land first applies; and, if uninterrupted for the prescribed
period, becomes a perfect bar to the recovery of the rightful
owner. There is nothing in this statute which appears to conflict with this view. The possession must be continuous, and
connected with color of title, legal or equitable. There must
be a right of entry in some one else to be tolled by this seven
years' possession, and the possession must be adverse to this
right of entry.
It is said that, under the decision of the courts of Illinois,
such possession as that of the defendant in the present case is
adverse to all the world. There is no doubt but the Supreme
Court of Illinois has said this, and that, in a general sense, it is
true.
The defendant, having purchased the land of the person who
had the legal title, does undoubtedly hold adversely to everybody else. He admits no better right in any one. He is no
man's tenant. The right by which he holds possession is superior to the right of all others. He asserts this, and he acts on
it. His possession is, in this sense, advers6 to the whole world.
But it is not inconsistent with all this that there exists a lien
on the land, - a lien which does not interfere with his possession, which cannot disturb it, but which may ripen into a title
superior to that under which he holds, but which is yet in
privity with it. In the just sense of the term, his possession is
not adverse to this lien. There can be no adversary rights in
regard to the possession under the lien, and under the defendant's purchase from the judgment debtor, until the lien is converted into a title conferring the right of possession. The
defendant's possession after this is adverse to the title of plaintiff; and then, with the right of entry in plaintiff, the bar of
the statute begins to run.
This is a question of the construction of the statutes of 1111.

PRATT V. PRATT.

[Sup. Ct

nois; and the case of Martin v. Judd (81 Ill. 488) is supposed to
be in conflict with what we have here said. But we are unable
to see any thing in that case to justify such a conclusion. It is
true that plaintiff in that case, as in this, asserted title under a
judgment, a sale, and marshal's deed. The defendant asserted
title under a judgment against the same party, and a sale and
conveyance by the sheriff. The judgment under which plaintiff claimed was rendered July 14, 1854; sale, Sept. 1, 1856;
and marshal's deed, June 28, 1858. The judgment under which
defendant claimed was rendered March 4, 1858; sale, Nov. 7,
1859; sheriff's deed, Oct. 14, 1862. The defendant relied on
the seven years' statute of limitation. The suit, however, was
commenced April 7, 1873; and the plaintiff had his marshal's
deed June 28, 1858, which was fifteen years before lie brought
his action. The plaintiff, therefore, had the right of entry and
a right of action for fifteen years before he brought suit.
During all this time, or at least during the last seven years
of it, the defendant had a possession under a title which was
in every sense adverse to that of plaintiff.
In the case before us, plaintiff sued within five years after
his lien became a title. Two of the seven years' possession on
which defendant relies was at a time when plaintiff had no
title, and consequently no right of action, and while none existed in those from whom lie derives title. Martin v. Judd
cannot therefore raise the only question there is in this case.
The instruction of the court to the jury, and the comments in
the opinion of the Supreme Court, show that the point in controversy in that case was whether the defendant had shown a
continuous possession adverse to the plaintiff. That it was adverse, there can be no doubt; though it was insisted that it was
otherwise, because held under a title derived from the same
person that plaintiff's was. But it is very clear that, after the
deed of the sheriff under the sale on the junior judgment, the
possession held under that deed was a possession in conflict with
and adverse to the title then held by plaintiff ; namely, his
deed under the senior judgment.
The opinion in Martin v. Judd refers to, and cites with ap
probation, the opinion of the court in Coolk v. Norton et al., 48
111. 20. That case was twice before the Supreme Court of Illi-

act. 1877.]

V. PRATT.
Q~t. tPRATT

nois, and received (as is evident) a very careful consideration.
It is reported in 43 Ill. 391, and in 48 id. 20. In that case,
Ryan was the common source of title. A judgment was recovered against him, Aug. 14, 1845; and a sale under execution on
that judgment was made April 8, 1846. No deed was made
under this sale until July, 1860, more than fourteen years after
the sale, though the certificate of sale was filed in the recorder's office when it was made. Ryan conveyed the property, in
a few months after the judgment was rendered, to persons under whom the defendants held title and possession. The suit
was commenced within the seven years after Cook obtained the
sheriff's deed; but, as this was fourteen years after the sale, the
question raised was when the statute began to run against
Cook's title. A few extracts from the learned opinion of Mr.
Justice Lawrence will show that the court is in accord with
the views we have already expressed.
"Would any one deny," he asks, "that the purchaser in
possession could protect himself, by proper proof, under the
Statute of Limitations, if more than seven years had elapsed
from the time when the prior purchaser had received or might
have received his deed? . . . The defendant has never acknowledged a lessor, nor any title paramount to his own. It is
true the Statute of Limitations did not begin to run in his favor
until the expiration of fifteen months from the sheriff's sale;
because until then there was no outstanding title upon which
suit could be brought. But upon that day the purchaser at the
sale was at liberty to take out his deed, clothe himself with the
legal title, and demand possession; and from that day the statute began to run." The fifteen months here alluded to was
the time which was allowed after a sale under execution for the
debtor, or any other judgment creditor of the debtor, to redeem
the land, by paying the amount for which it sold, with interest. "But," continued the court, "although the sheriff's deed
made on that day would have divested the legal title from
Clark and vested it in the purchaser, that fact would not have
converted Clark into a tenant. From that moment he became
a trespasser, and might have been sued as such." Again, speaking of the defendant Clark, the court says: "His possession
began under his deed as a possession hostile to all other persons;

710

PRATT v. PRATT.

[Sup. Ct.

and, though the Statute of Limitations did not begin to run until
the expiration of fifteen months from the day of the sheriff's
sale, it was not because there was no adverse possession in
fact until that day, but because until then there was no person in being who could bring the suit. That the sheriff's deed
must be considered as having been made when the right to it
accrued, so far as the Statute of Limitations is concerned, is
conceded by counsel for appellant."
These very clearly stated views of the Supreme Court of Illinois must control the present case. The plaintiff's right to
the marshal's deed accrued July 8, 1863. The Statute of Limitation began to run on that day, and the bar of seven years
would have become perfect on the 8th of July, 1870. This suit,
however, was commenced on the 15th of May, 1869, more than
a year before the statute bar was completed.
If we are wrong in what we have supposed to be the law, it
must follow that, in all cases in which the owner of real estate
owes money which is a lien on the land in his hands, the Statute of Limitation begins to run against that lien as soon as he
conveys the land with possession to some one else. It can
make no difference in the principle asserted, whether the lien
be created by a judgment or by a mortgage. Nor can it make
any difference whether the debt secured by the lien be due
when the conveyance is made, or has ten or twenty years to ruil
before the lien can be enforced against the land. The principle asserted is applicable in all these cases; namely, that
from the day of the conveyance, by the debtor, of the land on
which the lien of the debt exists to some third person, accom
panied by transfer of possession, the possession of the purchaser
is adverse to the lien-bolder, and the limitation of seven years
begins to run. If this be established to be the law, the owner of
real estate may borrow money on ten years' time, to the value of
that estate, and give a mortgage on it to secure payment; and
by a sale and conveyance of the land to a third person, with
delivery of possession a week afterwards, the lien is utterly defeated. For, according to this doctrine, the Statute of Limitation
begins to run against the mortgagee the moment the title and
possession are vested in the purchaser, and the bar of the statute becomes perfect against all the world by seven years' pos-

Oct, 1877.]

PRATT V. PRATT.

session; whereas the mortgagee can take no steps to foreclose
his mortgage until his money comes due, three years later.
And this doctrine is asserted in the face of the fact that
there is a limitation law specially applicable to the enforcement of the judgment lien by sale under execution, and of the
mortgage lien by foreclosure.
This question came before the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in the case of Coutler v. Phillips (20 Pa. St. 155), and
was fully discussed. We will close this opinion by giving verbatirn the closing remarks of the court in that case, so perfectly
applicable to the one before us. "Lien creditors are subject
to a limitation of five years; but the statute of limitations that
concerns the action of ejectment has no relation to them.
They have no estate in the land, no right of entry, no action
to be affected by the statute. The statute bars the right of
action, and protects the occupant, not for his merit (for he has
none), but for the demerit of his antagonist in delaying his
action beyond the period assigned for it. Sailor v. H6rtzogg,
2 Barr, 185. But what right of action has a lien creditor to
delay? His only remedy is by levy and sale. He then has
an estate and a right of entry. The statute may then attach;
before, it cannot."
The peremptory instruction of the Circuit Court to the jury,
that the facts we have stated established a good defence, was
erroneous, and the judgment must be reversed, and a new trial
had ; and it is
So ordered.
dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case, for two
principal reasons: 1. Because it conflicts with the decisions
of the State court upon the same subject. 2. Because the
statute of limitations applicable to the case began to run
when the defendant acquired the open, exclusive, adverse possession of the premises, by actual residence thereon, under
claim and color of title: it appearing that he continued to reside there, without interruption, for the period of seven years
prior to the commencement of the suit, having entered pursuant to a contract with the owner, who had a connected title
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD

SAGE V. RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

to the same, deducible of record, from the United States; and
that the defendant subsequently acquired the title to the premises, in pursuance of the contract, the rule being that such an
adverse possession, if uninterrupted and continued for the
period of seven years, is equivalent to an absolute title, when
confirmed by a conveyance from the party having a connected
title deducible of record, from the United States. Examined
in the light of these suggestions, it is clear, in my opinion, that
the case was properly submitted to the jury, and that the judgment founded on their verdict should be affirmed.

SAGE v. RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. An appeal lies here from the final decree of the Circuit Court confirming a saie
made under its order.
2. After the term at which such final decree was rendered, any justice of this
court may, within the time prescribed by law, allow an appeal, and approve
the bond which is to operate as a supersedeas.
3. A general appearance waives all defects in a citation.
4. The refusal of the Circuit Court to accept a siquersedeas bond, when offered
during the term at which the decree was rendered, does not take from a
judge of that court, or a justice of this court, the power to approve one
thereafter.
MOTION.
1. To dismiss the appeal. 2. To vacate the supersedeas.
Mr. Hf. B. Turner and Mr. J. C. Bullitt in support of the
motions.
31-r. N. A. Cowdry and Hr. B. T. Hlerrick, contra.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

This case was before us at the last term, upon a motion to
dismiss an appeal from a decree entered Oct. 22, 1875, and to
vacate a supersedeas upon that appeal. We denied the motion
to dismi:s, but vacated the supersedeas. The case is reported
in 93 U. S. 412.
After the vacation of the supersedeas, the decree of Oct. 22,
1875, was executed, July 18, 1877, by a sale of the mortgaged

