Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v. GOSSLER.

demand was made for the payment thereof, and if -within a reasonable time thereafter the company failed to disavow the acts
of its agent in so borrowing the money, the jury would be
authorized to consider the company as assenting to what was
done in its name. We consider this charge entirely correct.
Vianna v. Barclay, 3 Cow. (N.Y.) 281; Hazard v. Spear, 4 Keyes
(N. Y.), 469; Cairnes v. Bleecker, 12 Johns. (N. Y.) 300.
Judgment affirmed.

INSURAWCE ComrPA-qy v. GOSSLER.
1 So long as a vessel exists in specie in the hands of the owner, although she
may require repairs greater than her value, a case of "utter loss," within
the meaning of a bottomry and respondentia bond, does not arise, and she
continues subject to the hypothecation.
2. The holder of such a bond, which was conditioned to be void should an utter
loss from any of the enumerated perils occur, is, upon a wreck of the vessel
during the specified voyage, not amounting to such loss, entitled to the proceeds of the cargo saved by his efforts, as against the insurers thereof, who
accepted an abandonment by the owners as for a "total loss," and paid the
amount of their policies, said proceeds being insufficient to satisfy the bond.
So hdd in this case, which relates solely to such proceeds.

EuRor to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
The plaintiff, the Delaware Mutual Safety Insurance Company, was insurer of a cargo of sugar on board the "Frances,"
from Java to Boston. After leaving her port of departure, the
vessel encountered a hurricane, which compelled her to proceed
to Singapore, where she was repaired and fitted to continue the
voyage.
To meet the expenses of repairs, the master was obliged to
borrow at Singapore the sum of $26,055.43, Singapore currency,
and to execute, on the twelfth day of July, 1872, a bottomry
bond for that sum, with marine interest at twenty-seven and a
half per cent, upon the vessel and freight.
The bond contained the following stipulation:
"Provided, nevertheless, and it is hereby agreed, that if, in the
course of the said voyage, an utter loss of the said vessel by fire,

INSURANCE

Co.

v. GOSSLER.

[Sup. Ot

lightning, enemies, men-of-war, or any other perils, dangers, acci
dents, or casualties of the seas or navigation, shall unavoidably
happen, then the said loan and interest shall not be payable, and
all parties liable therefbr shall be wholly discharged therefr'om, and
the loss shall be wholly borne by the said lenders or bondholders,
and every thing herein contained for payment thereof shall be void
and determined ; save and except only, and provided in such case,
that the said lenders or bondholders shall be entitled to such average as can be hereby lawfully secured to them on all salvage recoverable in respect to the said vessel, freight, and goods, or any of
them."

The vessel sailed from Singapore for Boston, encountered a
storm in the month of December following, and was cast ashore
on Cape Cod, Mass.
The defendants, Gossler & Co., who were agents of the
bondholders and assignees of the bond, succeeded in saving
somewhat less than half the sugar on board, and forwarded it
to Boston.
The vessel, as she lay upon the beach, was surveyed, and,
having been found incapable of repair, was broken up, and her
materials were sold. When she was sold, she lay "on the
beach, full of water, as high as she could, but so low as to be
submerged at high-water." The chains and anchors, sails and
rigging and hull, were sold separately, at auction, by the underwriter, in January, 1873: the chains, anchors, and other
utensils bringing $1,494.75; the sails and rigging, $2,323.70;
and the hull, 82,000.
Upon learning of the disaster, the owners of the cargo made
abandonments in writing to the plaintiff as the underwriter
thereon, and claimed payment for a total loss under their
respective policies.
The letters of abandonment were dated, respectively, Dec.
28, 30, and 31, 1872.
In March, 1873, the plaintiff paid to each owner the amount
of a total loss under his policy; and received on the same
date, from them so insured and paid, an assignment and transfer in writing of "the sugar of said owners, and all their
right, title, interest, trusts, claim, and demand therein and
thereto."

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

GOSSLER.

The defendants, as agents of the bondholders, with the consent of the owners of the cargo, proceeded to sell the sugar
saved; and now hold the proceeds, claiming them on account
of said bond, such proceeds not being sufficient to satisfy it.
The plaintiff having, at all times, claimed them, as the underwriter who accepted abandonments and paid a total loss
thereon, brought this action to recover them.
The case was tried by the court below; and, judgment having been rendered for the defendants, the company brought the
case here.
)[r. William C. Russell and Mr. Charles MI,. Reed for the
plaintiff in error.
The facts show an "utter loss" of the vessel. Thompson v.
Tlhe Ruyal Exchange Assurance Co., 1 M. & S. 30 ; The .Elephanta, 9 Eng. L. & Eq. 553; Joyce v. Williamson, 3 Doug.
164; Pope et al. v. .Yickerson et al., 3 Story, 465; Murray v.
Hatch, 6 Mass. 464; Cambridge v. Anderton, 2 Barn. & Cress.
691; Roux v. Salvador, 3 Bing. N. C. 266; 2 Arnould, Ins.,
sect. 364, 365; Marshall, Ins. 446; 2 Parsons, Mar. Ins. 73;
2 Phillips, Ins., sect. 1485; Barker v. Janson, Law Rep. 3 C.P.
303; Walker v. ProtectionInsurance Co., 29 Me. 317 ; Gardner
v. Salvador, 1 Moo. & R. 116 ; Irving v. Manning, 1 H. L. Rep.
Cas. 287; Xullett v. Shedden, 13 East, 303; Cambridge v. Anderson, Ry. & M. 60; Poole v. The Protection Insurance Co.,
14 Conn. 46; Tudor v. New -England llutual Marine Insurance
Co., 12 Cash. (Mass.) 554; Hugg v. Augusta Insurance &.
Banking Co., 7 How. 595; -Dyson v. Roweroft, 3 Bos. & Pul.
474; Appleton v. Crowninshield, 3 Mass. 443; Peele v. Suffolk
Insurance Co., 7 Pick. (Mass.) 254; Peele et al. v. Merchants'
Insurance Co., 3 Mason, 27; Crosby v. New York Mutual Insurance Co., 5 Bosw. (N. Y.) 369; Stagg v. United Insurance
Co., 3 Johns. (N. Y.) Cas. 34; Coit v. Smith, id. 16.
The utter loss of the vessel having avoided the bond, the
holders of it had no right, under its terms, to the proceeds of
the cargo saved from the wreck. 1 Parsons, Mar. Ins. 221;
2 Park, Ins. 628, 629; 2 Phillips, Ins., sect. 1488; Joyce v.
Wlliamson, 3 Doug. 164 ;oBobertson & Brown v. United Insurance Co., 2 Johns. (N. Y.) Cas. 250; Appleton v. Crowninshield,
8 Mass. 340; Thorndike v. Stone, 11 Pick. (Mass.) 193; Bray

848

IN.SURANCE Co. v. GOSSLER.

LSup. Ct.

v. Bates and Another, 9 Metc. (Mass.) 237; Tie Insurance
Company of Pennsylvania v. Duval and Another, 8 Serg. & R.
(Pa.) 138; The Virgin, 8 Pet. 538; The Hunter, 1 Ware, 251;
1 Parsons, Mar. Law, 420, and cases cited; Marshall, Ins., c. 13,
sect. 7; Stephen v. Broomfield, L. R. 2 P. C. 516; Columbian
Insurance Co. v. Ashby, 13 Pet. 331; Gray v. Waln, 2 Sorg. &
R. (Pa.) 229.
ilfr. Charles A. Welch, contra, cited The Virgin, 8 Pet. 538;
3 Kent, Com. p59, 360; 2 Arnould, Ins., sect. 392; 1 Phillips,
Ins., sect. 1170; Abbott, Shipp., p. 126; Maude & Pollock,
Shipp., p. 440; Maclachlan, Shipp., p. 57; Hopkins' HandBook of Average, p. 93; Crump, Mar. Ins., sect. 147; Thompson v. The Royal .Exchange Assurance Co., 1 M. & S. 30; The
Great Pacific, Law Rep. 2 Ad. & Ec. 381; s. c. Law Rep.
2 P. C. 516; Broomfield v. Southern Insurance Co., Law Rep.
5 Ex. 192; The Insurance Company of Penns,lvania v. Duval
and Another, 8 Serg. & R. (Pa.) 138; Delaware Insurance Co.
v. Archer, 3 Rawle (Pa.), 216; The Catherine, 1 Eng. L. & Eq.
679; The BElephanta, 9 id. 553; Bynkershoek, Quoest. Pub.,
lib. 3, ch. 16; The Dante, 2 W. Rob. 427; Stephen v. Broomfield, Law Rep. 2 P. C. 516.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Maritime hypothecations had their origin in the necessities
of commerce, and they are said to be the creatures of necessity
and distress. When properly authorized and duly executed,
they are of a high and privileged character, and are held in
great sanctity by maritime courts. The Vibilia, 1 W. Rob. 1;
The Rhadamanthe, 1 Dod. 201; The Hero, 2 id. 139; The Kennersley Castle, 3 Hagg. 1.
Instruments of hypothecation are usually executed by the
master, he being regarded as the agent of the owner; the rule
being that the owner is bound to the performance of all lawful
contracts made by the master relative to the usual employment
of the ship, and to the repairs and other necessaries furnished
for her use. The Aurora, 1 Wheat. 96.
Contracts of the kind are authorized in emergencies, for the
purpose of procuring necessary repairs and supplies for ships
which may happen to be in distress in foreign ports, where the

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

o.

V. GOSSLER.

master and the owners are without credit, and where, unless
assistance can be procured by means of such an hypothecation,
the voyage must be broken up, or the vessel and cargo must
perish. Burker v. The Brig M. P. Bich, 1 Cliff. 808.
Such an hypothecation of the vessel by the master is only
authorized when based upon necessity. And the required
necessity is twofold in its character: it must be a necessity of
obtaining repairs or supplies in order to prosecute the voyage,
and also of resorting to such an hypothecation from inability
to procure the required funds in any other way. Thomas et al.
v. Osborn, 19 How. 22; The Hersey, 3 Hagg. 404.
Sufficient appears to show that the plaintiffs were the underwriters on the cargo of the bark "Frances," consisting of sugar,
on her voyage from Java to Boston; that, in due course of
navigation, the bark sailed from a.port of Java, duly laden,
for her return port; that she soon encoufntered a hurricane,
which compelled the master to cut away her masts to save the
vessel, and to put into a neighboring port for repairs, from
whence it became necessary for the bark to proceed to the
port of Singapore to fit the vessel to continue the voyage.
Destitute of funds to pay the expenses incurred for the repairs,
and without credit, the master was obliged to execute a bottomry bond there for the sum necessary to liquidate those
expenses, with marine interest at twenty-seven and one-half
per cent, upon the bark, cargo, and freight. All matters of
the sort having been adjusted, the bark sailed from the port of
Singapore for the port of Boston; but, before she reached her
port of destination, she encountered a storm, and in the month
of December of that year was wrecked and driven ashore on
Cape Cod. Prompt measures for saving as much as possible
from the wreck were adopted by the defendants, who were the
agents of the bondholders or the assignees of the same; and it
appears that they succeeded in saving nearly half of the cargo,
which was sent forward to Boston, and was subsequently sold
with the consent of the owners.
Subsequent to the shipwreck, the bark was surveyed as she
lay upon the beach; and, being found to be incapable of being
repaired, she was broken up, and her material was sold in sepa.
rate parcels, including the hull, chains, anchors, sails, and rig.

INSURANCE

Co. v.

GOSSLER.

[Sup. Or.

ging; and, when the owners of the cargo were informed of the
disaster, they made abandonment in writing to the underwriters,
under each policy of the respective dates, as stated in the
agreed statement, claiming payment on each policy as for a
total loss.
Pursuant to that claim, the plaintiffs, as such
underwriters, paid to the insured owners of the cargo the
amount as for a total loss under each policy, and received from
the owners an assignment and transfer in writing of the sugar
of the owners, and of all their right, title, and interest in the
same.
Two other matters are admitted: 1. That the defendants
hoM the proceeds of the sugar, the amount being less than the
amount of the bond. 2. That the plaintiffs accepted the abandonments tendered by the owners of the cargo, and have at all
times claimed what was saved of the cargo.
Payment being refused, the plaintiffs brought an action of
assumpsit against the defendants for money had and received,
and the parties submitted the case to the Circuit Court, upon an
agreed statement of facts. Hearing was had, and the Circuit
Court rendered judgment for the defendants, and the plaintiffs
sued out the present writ of error.
Due execution of the bond in question is conceded; nor is it
questioned that the circumstances were such at the time as to
give the master the power to make the loan, nor that the bond
by its terms covers the cargo and pending freight as well as
the bark, unless an utter loss of the vessel occurred during the
voyage.
Authority of the master to hypothecate the ship and pending
freight in such a case, whenever, within the mhaning of the
maritime law, it becomes necessary to enable him to complete
the enterprise in which the ship is engaged, was never doubted,
whether the occasion arises from extraordinary peril or misfortune, or from the ordinary course of the adventure. Nothing
but necessity can be a proper foundation for such an hypothecation. And that necessity, as before stated, must be twofold in its
character: first, it must be a necessity of obtaining repairs or
supplies in order to prosecute the voyage; secondly, it must be
a necessity of resorting to a bottomry bond, from inability to
procure the required funds in any other way. The Hersey,

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

CO. v. GOSSLER.

3 Hagg. 404; The Fortitude, 3 Sumn. 234; 1 Conl. Adm.
(2d ed.) 269; Abbott, Shipp. (11th ed.) 126.
Ship-owners appoint the master, and they are in general
responsible for his acts; but the general rule is different as to
the cargo, in respect to which the master is the mere depositary and common carrier, whose whole relation to the goods
consists in his obligation of due conveyance, safe custody, and
right delivery.
Viewed in that light, it was supposed at one time that the
master had no power to hypothecate the cargo to raise funds to
prosecute the voyage, whatever the necessity mght be; but the
rule is now well settled the other way, that the hypothecation
may extend to the cargo as well as to the ship and freight.
The Lord Cochrane, 1 W. Rob. 313; The Gratitudine, 8 0.
Rob. 240; The Packet, 3 Mason, 257; The Zephyr, id. 84.3;
The United Insurance Co. v. Scott, 1 Johns. (N. Y.) 105;
oFontaine v. The Colombian Insurance Co., 9 id. 29; Searle v.
Seovell, 4 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 218; The American Insurance
Co. v. Coster, 3 Paige (N. Y.), 323.
Bottomry bonds, when given bona fide and for legitimate
purposes, are to be liberally protected. It is important for the
interests of commerce that a master in a foreign port, standing
in need of assistance, arising out of some unforeseen necessity,
to complete a voyage, and having no credit, should for that
object be invested with authority to pledge the ship, and charge
upon it the repayment of the loan in case of her safe arrival.
The Reliance, 3 Hagg. 66.
Beyond all doubt, the bond in this case hypothecates the
cargo as well as the vessel and the unpaid freight by way of
bottomry, as security for the payment of the loan on the terms
and conditions specified in the instrument, which are as follows:
1. That the vessel shall proceed, and complete her voyage
without unnecessary deviation. 2. That the principal and
marine interest shall be paid in the manner specified, within
three days after the safe arrival of the vessel at the port of
destination, and before the cargo is landed or the freight collected. 3. That the cargo shall not be landed nor the freight
collected until the payment is made, and that the bondholders
for the time being shall have the privilege of enforcing those

INSURANCE

(o.

v.

GOSSLER.

[Sup. Or;.

conditions. 4. That interest on the aggregate amount at the
current rate in the port of destination shall be paid in case of
failure to dischargo the amount of the principal and marine
interest as stipulated.
Superadded to those terms and conditions is the following
stipulation, in the form of a proviso: that if in the course of
the voyage an utter loss of the vessel by fire, lightning, enemies,
men-of-war, or any other perils, dangers, accidents, or casualties
of the seas or navigation, shall unavoidably happen, then the
loan and interest shall not be payable; and all parties liable
therefor shall be wholly discharged therefrom, and the loss
shall be wholly borne by the lenders or bondholders, and
every thing herein contained for payment shall be void and
determined, save and except only, and provided in such case.
that the lender or bondholders shall be entitled to such average
as can be hereby lawfully secured to them on all salvage recoverable in respect to the vessel, freight, and goods, or any of
them.
Difference of opinion exists among Continental writers as to
the meaning of the exception at the close of the preceding
condition; but the great weight of authority, even from that
source, is, that the holder of the bottomry bond is preferred
over the insurer or owner, to the extent of his legal claim for
principal and marine interest secured by the bond. 3 Boulay
Paty, Cours de Droit Commercial Maritime, 183.
Instead of that, Valin holds that the lender on bottomry is
entitled in such a case only to such a proportion of the value of
the property salved as the sum loaned bears to the whole value
of the property hypothecated. Pothier and l m6rigon concur
with the writer first named; and the Court of Privy Council
Appeals decided, that, if the vessel is lost, the lender on bottomry, though his remedy is limited to the value of the property salved, is entitled to the whole of what is saved, provided
it was included in his security. Stephens v. Broomfield, Law
Rep. 2 P. C. 522; 2 Em6rigon, Trait6 des Assurances Maritimes et des Contrats , la grosse, 544.
Much discussion took place in the preceding case, as to the
meaning of the stipulation in the closing part of the condition
of the instrument, which was quite similar in legal effect to the

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v. GOSSLEu.

closing exception in the present case; the contention being
there, as here, that it gave the owners of the ship or cargo, as
the case may be, the right to share in the salved property: but
the court, without hesitation, rejected the proposition; holding
that the theory involved a forced construction of the stipulation, utterly inconsistent with such a maritime contract, and that
it reserved no such right to the owners. The Great Pacific,
L. R. 2 Ad. & Ec. 381.
Authorities to show that the doctrine of constructive total
loss is in no respect applicable to such a contract are numerous,
unanimous, and decisive. Doffmson v. The Royal Exchange Assurance Co., 1 M. & S. 80.
In the case of bottomry, said the Chief Justice in that case,
nothing short of a total destruction of the ship will constitute
an utter loss; for, if it exist in specie in the hands of the owner,
it will prevent an utter loss: and text-writers of the highest
repute adopt the same rule, and express it in substantially the
same language. Nothing but an utter annihilation of the subject hypothecated, says Chancellor Kent, will discharge the
borrower on bottomry; the rule being that the property saved,
whatever it may be in amount, continues subject to the hy
pothecation. 3 Kent, Com. (12th ed.) 859; Williams & Bruce,
Prac. 47.
Unless the ship be actually destroyed, and the loss to the
owners absolute, it is not an utter loss within the meaning of
such a contract. If the ship still exists, although in such a
state of damage as to be constructively totally lost, within the
meaning of a policy of insurance; or if she is captured, and
afterwards retaken and restored, she is not utterly lost, within
the meaning of that phrase in the contract of hypothecation.
Maude & Pollock, Shipp. (3d ed.) 44; The Catherine, I Eng.
L. & Eq. 679; The E-lephanta, 9 id. 553.
Support to that view, of a decisive character, is derived from
the case of Pope v. Nickerson (3 Story, 489), decided by Judge
Story, where he says, that, in cases of bottomry, nothing but
an actual total loss of the ship in the voyage will excuse the
borrower from payment, not even when by reason of the enumerated perils the ship shall require repairs greater than her
value; and he adds, that the proposition is fully borne out by

INSURANCE

Co. v. GOSSLER,

[Sup. 0t

authority; and he adopts and fully approves what was decided
in the case of Thomson v. The Royal Exchange Assurance Company, to which reference has already been made, that the question in such a case is not, whether the circumstances were such
as that, in case of insurance, the insured might have abandoned
the ship, but whether it was an utter loss within the true intent
and meaning of a bottomry contract; and he held that, in cases
of bottomry, a loss not strictly total cannot be turned into a
technical total loss by abandonment, so as to excuse the borrower
from payment, even when the expense of repairing the ship
exceeds her value.
Hypothecations of the kind are created by contract in writing, whereby the master of a vessel in a foreign port, not having
any credit in the port where the vessel is lying, is enabled to
obtain money for the repair and equipment of the vessel, and
for necessary supplies for the prosecution of the voyage, by
creating a charge or lien upon the vessel and freight, or upon
the vessel, freight, and cargo, in 'favor of the lender; so that, if
the vessel or cargo is sold or mortgaged by the owners, the
property will be burdened with the charge or lien in the hands of
the purchaser or mortgagee. Addison, Contr. (6th ed.) 275.
Contracts regularly created in that mode, and for that purpose, give rise to a maritime lien well understood in the civil
law as existing, even without actual or constructive possession;
the rule being, that, wherever a maritime lien of the kind exists,
it gives a jus ad rem to the property to which it attaches, to be
carried into effect by appropriate legal process. Such a contract does not transfer the property hypothecated ; but only
gives the creditor a privilege or claim upon it, to be carried
into effect by legal process, in case the vessel arrives at the port
of destination in safety. Abbott, Shipp. (11th ed.) 128; The
Tobago, 5 C. Rob. 218; Stainbank v. Penning, 11 C. B. 88;
Stainbank v. Shepard, 13 id. 417.
Where several securities of the kind are given upon the same
ship and cargo, the rule is, all other things being equal, that
they take effect in the inverse order of their dates; because it is
supposed that the last loan furnished the means of preserving
the ship, and that without it the prior lenders would have
entirely lost their security. The Eliza, 3 Hagg. 86.

Oct. 1877.]

INSURA-CNE Co. v. GoSSLE.

Subject to the rule that requires diligence in putting the bond
in suit, securities of this nature, when the fund is deficient, take
priority, as before remarked, in the inverse order of their dates;
the ground for the preference of the later bonds to the earlier
being the condition of necessity on which the validity of each
is originally dependent, which is applicable to the last as well
as to the first, and is regarded as a safe reason for presuming
that the one latest in date furnished the means for preserving
the property for the earlier lender. Maclachlan, Shipp. (2d

ed.) 5.
Liens of the kind are preferred to all other claims upon the
property, except those arising from seamen's wages, the claims
6f salvors for subsequent service in saving the adventure, and
ti holder of a subsequent bottomry bond. The William .
Sufford, Lush. 69; The .Priscilla,id. 1.
Throughout, it should be borne in mind that the bond in this
case covers the bark, pending freight and cargo, and that the
controversy in the case has respect only to the proceeds derived
from the sale of so much of the cargo as was saved by the
efforts of the defendants. Where the bond only covers the
ship, the lenders run no risk as to the cargo, as they must be
paid if the ship arrives in safety, even though the whole cargo
is lost; but, where the bond covers the cargo as well as the
vessel, the lender, unless the condition is otherwise, is entitled
to be paid even if the ship is lost, if enough of the cargo arrives
in safety to pay the bottomry loan, the rule being that the
maritime lien of the lender attaches to the entire property
covered by the bond, or, to all that part of it which arrives at
the port of destination in safety.
Actual total loss of the property by the described perils displaces the lien of the lender, and defeats his right of recovery;
but the rule is, that, if the ship is once bottomried, the bond
attaches to the very last plank, and the holder of the bond may
have that sold for his benefit. The Catherine, 1 Eng. L. &
Eq. 679.
Abundant authority exists for that proposition, and the court
is of the opinion that the same rule is applicable to the cargo
in cases where it is without condition covered by the bond,
The Virgin, 8 Pet. 538.

INSURANCE Co. v. GOSSLER.

[Sulp. Or.

Prior remarks are sufficient to show that the doctrine of
constructive total loss is not applicable to contracts of bottomry,
which serves very strongly to show that the maritime lien of
the bondholder attaches to every part of the property covered
by the bond, as seems to follow from all the authorities upon
the subject. Broomfield v. Southkern Insurance Co., L. R.
5 Ex. 192.
Slight differences exist between a loan on the ship and a
respondentia loan or loan on the cargo; but it is unnecessary to
remark upon that distinction, as the bond in this case covers
the bark as well as the cargo. 2 Marsh. 734; Stephens v.
Broomfield, 6 Moore, P. C. N. s. 161.
By the general marine law, the lender on bottomry is entitled
to be paid out of the effects saved, so far as those effects go, if
the voyage be disastrous. Appleton v. Crowninslield, 3 Mass
443.
Underwriters and lenders on bottomry stand upon a different
footing, as was well explained at a very early period in our
judicial history. Wilmer v. ,milax, 2 Pet. Adm. 299.
By an abandonment, the insurer is placed in the situation of
the insured whom he represents, and can have no greater right
than the insured would have had. Unlike that, the lender on
bottomry loses his remedy only when the ship or other property
hypothecated is wholly lost; and, where parts are preserved, such
parts are esteemed his proper goods, being presumed to be the
product of his money; and he, therefore, takes preference of
the owner or insurer. In case of shipwreck, "the owners are
not personally bound, except to the extent of the fund salved
which has come into their hands." The Virgin, 8 Pet. 538.
"Utterly lost," said Chief Justice Tilghman, is a strong expression; intended, as lie held, to distinguish the case from one
where the vessel is technically lost, as in case of abandonment.
Such must have been his meaning; for he adds, that a ship is
not utterly lost while she remains in specie in the hauds of the
owners. " HIad she been taken by an enemy, she would have
been utterly lost to the owner," unless she had been recaptured
and restored. "So, had she been burnt, or wrecked and gone
to pieces," unless some of her sails, masts, anchors, or chains
had been saved. But she is not utterly lost merely because it

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co.

v. GOSSLER.

may cost more than she is worth to repair her. Insurance
(Company of Pennsylvaniav. Duval et al., 8 S. & R. (Pa.) 138.
Salved property, in case of wreck or other disaster, says Phillips' continues to be subject to the hypothecation; but, if the
loss is by the perils assumed by the lender, the borrower becomes
discharged from all liability on his bond, excepting to the
amount saved. Nothing short of a total loss will discharge the
borrower. 2 Phillips, Ins. (5th ed.), sect. 1170.
High authority also exists for the proposition, that a total
loss within the meaning of a bottomry bond cannot happen if
the ship exists in. specie, although she may be so much injured
on the voyage as not to be worth repairing and bringing to
the ultimate place of departure. Abbott, Shipp. (11th ed.)
126.
Bynkershoek defines such contracts to be a pledge of the
vessel or other effects upon which the loan is made, and of
what may remain of them after any event by which the personal responsibility is excused. Bynk., Quzest. Pub., lib. 3,
c. 16.
From the moment of the accident, says m&6rigon, the lender
is seised of right to the effects saved, he having a special lien
upon them for the payment of his debt, saving the freight and
salvage; and the French ordinance is to the same effect, the
rule there promulgated being that in case of shipwreck the
security of the loan is reduced to the value of the effects saved
from loss. Title 5, art. 17.
Decided support to the proposition that the lien extends to
whatever is saved from the property covered by the bond is
also derived from a case in which the opinion was given by
Chief Justice Gibson, in which he expressly decided that the
lender in a respondentia bond takes the risk only of a total
loss, that any part of the property which arrives goes to the
holder of the bond, without regard to whether it be great or
whether it be small, so that it does not exceed the amount of
the loan. The -DelawareInsurance Co. v. Arcer, 3 Rawle (Pa.),
226.
Rules of law defining the right of abandonment in cases of
insurance do not apply in bottomry controversies, as there is
no constructive total loss in the latter class of litigation. InVOL. V1.

42

INSURANCE

Co. v.

GOSSLER.

[Sup. Ct.

stead of that, the rule is, that if the ship exists in specie, though
in a state -which would warrant an insured to make an abandonment; as where the cost of repairs would greatly exceed the
value when repaired, the lender on bottomry may still recover;
for the ship must be absolutely and wholly destroyed, in ordor
to discharge the borrowers. 2 Arnould, Ins., by Maclachlan
(4th ed.), 945.
Examined in the light of these authorities, it is clear that the
bark in this case was not utterly lost within the meaning of
the bottomry bond, when considered in view of the facts as
they existed at the time the vessel was sold, and before she was
voluntarily broken up by the purchaser. Subsequent acts of
the purchasers cannot affect the right of the defendants; and, if
not, then the proof is full to the point that the vessel existed
in specie as she lay stranded on the beach. The Brig Draco,
2 Sumn. 157.
Shipwreck occurred in this case before the bark arrived at
her port of destination: but the agreed statement shows that
the vessel, though "cast ashore," still existed in specie, and
that the voyage was'terminated by a sale of the bark at an
intermediate place; that she was surveyed subsequent to the
disaster, as she lay upon the beach, and, though found to be
incapable of repair, she -was not an utter loss within the maritime rule applicable in such a case; nor can the act of the
owners in making an abandonment as for a constructive total
loss have any effect to conclude or impair the rights of the
defendants as the holders of the bottomry bond.
Judgment affirmed.

