Oct. 1877.)

Ex PARTE JACKSON.

wise, in the sum of $250. , The security may be approved by
any judge or justice authorized to sign a citation upon an
appeal in the cause; but this cause will stand dismissed, unless
the appellant shall, on or before the first Monday in March
next, file with the clerk of this court a bond, with good and
sufficient security, conditioned according to law, for the purposes of the appeal; and it is
SO ordered.

Ex PAJRTE JACKSON.
1. The power vested in Congress to establish "post-offices and post-roads " embraces the regulation of the entire postal system of the country.

Under

it, Congress may designate what shall be carried in the mail, and what
excluded.
2. In the enforcement of regulations excluding matter from the mail, a distinction is to be made between what is intended to be kept free from inspection,
such a letters, and sealed packages subject to letter postage, and what is
open to inspection, such as newspapers, magazines, pamphlets, and other
printed matter, purposely left in a condition to be examined.
3. Letters, and sealed packages subject to letter postage, in the mail can bE
opened and examined only under like warrant, issued upon similar oath oi
affirmation, particularly describing the thing to be seized, as is required wher
papers are subjected to search in one's own household. The constitutiona.
guaranty of the right of the people to be secure in their papers against unreasonable searches and seizures extends to their papers, thus closed against
inspection, wherever they may be.
4. Regulations against transporting inthe mail printed matter, which is open to
examination, cannot be enforced so as to interfere in any manner with the
freedom of the press. Liberty of circulating is essential to that freedom.
When, therefore, printed matter is excluded from the mail, its transportation
in any other way as merchandise cannot be forbidden by Congress.
5.Regulations excluding matter from the mail may be enforced through the
courts, upon competent evidence of their violation obtained in other ways
than by the unlawful inspection*of letters and sealed packages; and with
respect to objectionable printed matter, open to examination, they may in
sonic cases also be enforced by the direct action of the officers of the postal
service upon their own inspection, as where the object is exposed, and shows
unmistakably that it is prohibited, as in the case of an obscene picture or
print.
0 When a party is convicted of an offence, and sentenced to pay a fine, it is
within the discretion of the court to order his imprisonment until the fine
shall be paid.

EX PARTE JACKSON.

[Sup. 0t,

PETITION for writs of habeas corpus and certiorari.

Section 3894 of the Revised Statutes provides that "No
letter or circular concerning illegal lotteries, so-called gift-concerts, or other similar enterprises offering prizes, or concerning
schemes devised and intended to deceive and defraud the public, for the purpose of obtaining money under false pretences,
shall be carried in the mail. Any person who shall knowingly
deposit or send any thing to be conveyed by mail, in violation of
this section, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than
$500, nor less than $100, with costs of prosecution." By an
act approved July 12, 1876 (19 Stat. 90), the word "illegal"
was stricken out of the section.
Under the law as thus
amended, the petitioner was indicted, in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York, for
knowingly and unlawfully depositing, on the 23d of February,
1877, at that district, in the mail of the United States, to be
conveyed in it, a circular concerning a lottery offering prizes,
enclosed in an envelope addressed to one J. Ketcham, at Gloversville, New York. The indictment sets forth the offence in
separate counts, so as to cover every form in which it could be
stated under the act. Upon being arraigned, the petitioner
stood mute, refusing to plead; and thereupon a plea of not
guilty was entered in his behalf by order of the court. Rev.
Stat., sect. 1032. He was subsequently tried, convicted, and
sentenced to pay a fine of $100, with the costs of the prosecution, and to be committed to the county jail until the fine and
costs were paid. Upon his commitment, which followed, he presented to this court a petition alleging that he was imprisoned
and restrained of his liberty by the marshal of the Southern
District of New York, under the conviction; that such conviction was illegal, and that the illegality consisted in this: that
the court had no jurisdiction to punish him for the acts charged
in the indictment; that the act under which the indictment
was drawn was unconstitutional and void ; and that the court
exceeded itg i-:risdiction in committing him until the fine was
paid. lie therefore prayed for a writ of habeas corpus to be
directed tc the marshal to bring him before the court, and a
writ of certiorarito be directed to the clerk of the Circuit Court
to send up the record of his conviction, that this court might

Oct. 1877.]

Ex

PARTE JACKSON.

inquire into the cause and legality of his imprisonment. Accompanying the petition, as exhibits, were copies of the indictment and of the record of conviction. The court, instead of
ordering that the writs issue at once, entered a rule, the counsel of the petitioner consenting thereto, that cause be shown,
on a day designated, why the writs should not issue as prayed;
and that a copy of the rule be served on the Attorney-General
of the United States, the marshal of the Southern District of
New York, and the clerk of the Circuit Court. The AttorneyGeneral, for himself and others, answered the rule, by averring
that the petition and exhibits do not make out a case in which
this court has jurisdiction to order the writs to issue, and that
the petitioner is in lawful custody by virtue of the proceedings
and sentence mentioned in the exhibits, and the commitment
issued thereon.
lr. A. J. Dittenhoeferand .ir. Louis F.Post for the petitioner.
1. From the power to establish post-offices and post-roads,
that of receiving, carrying, and delivering the mail is implied;
and from these are derived other incidental powers, one of them
being the right to protect the mail by appropriate legislation.
McCullough v. Iaryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Sturtevant v. City of
Altun, 3 McLean, 393.
2. As the power of Congress is exclusive, its legislation ebtablishing a post-office or post-road, or regulating the receipt,
protection, carriage, or delivery of the mail, is therefore supreme. Congress has, in the exercise of the power, declared
(Rev. Stat., sect. 3982) that "no person shall establish any private express for the conveyance of letters or packets, or in any
manner cause or provide for the conveyance of the same, by
regular trips or at stated periods, over any post-route which is.
or may be established by law, or from any city, town, or place,
to any other city, town, or place, between which the mail is
regularly carried."
3. The power so vested in, Congress imposed upon that body
the duty to furnish adequate facilities for the secure transportation and delivery of all letters and packets which were corr
sidered legitimate mail matter at the time of the adoption of
the Constitution. To provide the requisite funds for the performance of this duty, Congress has imposed reasonable rates

EX PARTE JACKSON.

[Sup. Gt.

of postage; and, to protect the contents of the mail, has prohibited the putting in the mail-bags of any poisonous or explosive article, which may injure them, or the persons connected
with the mail service; and it has also limited the bulk and
weight of mailable packets. These are matters of appropriate
regulation. Never, however, until 1836, was any attempt made
to exclude established mail matter from the mails. The President had previously recommended to Congress the passage of a
law prohibiting the conveyance by mail of publications inciting
persons held to service in the Southern States to revolt against
their masters. Pursuant to the recommendation, a bill was introduced in the Senate providing that it should not be lawful
for any deputy-postmaster knowingly to receive and put into
the mail any pamphlet, newspaper, handbill, or other printed,
written, or pictorial representation, touching the subject of
slavery, directed to any person or ,post-office where, by the laws
thereof, their circulation was prohibited. Cong. Globe, 186,
p. 150. The measure was signally defeated. The views of
the most eminent statesmen of that day, as they appear in
the published debates, against its passage upon constitutional
grounds, are applicable to the statute under which the petitioner was convicted, and conclusively demonstrate its unconstitutionality.
4. In the year 1868, Congress, in the exercise of an assumed
power, declared that it should not be lawful to deposit in a
post-office, to be sent by mail, any letters or circulars concerning lotteries, so-called gift-concerts, or other similar enterprises
(15 Stat. 196), although all letters whatsoever, without regard
to the character of the communication contained in them, had
been previously considered to be legitimate mail matter. That
act, initiating this species of legislation, is of a like character
with the one governing this case, and both are unconstitutional. If Congress can exclude from the mail a, letter concerning lotteries which have been authorized by State legislation,
and refuse to carry it by reason of their asserted injurious tendency, it may refuse to carry any other business letter; and as
the conveyance of letters otherwise than by the mail of the
United States, at stated periods, over any post-road, has, as above
shown, been prohibited by Congress, that body may cut off all

Oct. 1877.]

EX PARTE JACKSON.

means of epistolary communication upon any subject which is
objectionable to a majority of its members. So long as the
duty of carrying the mails is imposed upon Congress, a letter
or a packet which was.confessedly mailable matter at the time
of the adoption of the Constitution cannot be excluded from
them, provided the postage be paid and other regulations beobserved. Whatever else has been declared to be mailable matter, -as postal cards, postal money-orders, merchandise, &c., all
of which were unknown to the postal system when the convention concluded its labors in 1787, -may, in the discretion of
Congress, be abolished.
Mr'. Assistant-Attorney- General Smith, contra.
1. Congress has the power "to establish post-offices and postroads," and to make all laws necessary and proper for carrying
into execution that power.
The framers of the Constitution meant to create an establishment as an entirety; not merely to designate the places at which
mails should be taken up and delivered, and the routes by
which they should be transported from point to point. Full,
sovereign control over the whole subject was given, to be exer
cised by any appropriate means. Xohl et al. v. United States,
91 U. S. 367; Dickey v. .llaysville & Lexington Turnpike Road
Co., 7 Dana (Ky.), 113; Sturtevant v. City of Alton, 3 McLean, 393; 2 Story, Const., sects. 1125-1150; Rawle, Const.,
c. 9, pp. 103, 104.
2. Having exclusive power over the subject, Congress can
prescribe the matter which shall receive the benefits of this
establishment; and he who complains that he cannot use it to
transmit obscene or improper communications, no more maintains a constitutional right than does the debtor who cannot
avail himself of the Bankrupt Act because he owes but $100, or
because (under the first law on this subject) he is not a trader.
It is a question of administration merely. If the public interests require the exclusion of articles morally contaminating, as
well as of poisons, acids, or explosives, to prohibit their deposit
in the post-office is as "essential to the beneficial exercise of the
power" granted by the Constitution, though "not indispensably
necessary to its existence," as any of those mentioned in Me Cul
loch v. Te State of iMaryland, 4 Wheat. 316.

Ex

PARTE JACKSON.

[Sup. Ut.

The remedy is in the hands of the people, if Congress so
legislates as to deprive them of the full and just enjoyment of
postal privileges.
Any State choosing to sanction a business which Congress
thinks ought not to have the use of the mails to facilitate its
transactions, can, if she please, provide means of communication for matter so excluded from the mails. 2 Story, Const.,
sect. 1150; 1 Tucker's B1. Com., App. 265.
But, if there is a right to exclude any matter from the mail,
:,he extent of its exercise is one of legislative discretion.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The power vested in Congress "to establish post-offices and
post-roads" has been practically construed, since the foundation
of the government, to authorize not merely the designation of
the routes over which the mail shall be carried, and the offices
where letters and other documents shall be received to be distributed or forwarded, but the carriage of the mail, and all
measures necessary to secure its safe and speedy transit, and
the prompt delivery of its contents. The validity of legislation
prescribing what should be carried, and its weight and form,
and the charges to which it should be subjected, has never been
questioned. What should be mailable has varied at different
times, changing with the facility of transportation over the postroads. At one time, only letters, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets, and other printed matter, not exceeding eight ounces in
weight, were carried; afterwards books were added to the list;
and now small packages of merchandise, not exceeding a prescribed weight, as well as books and printed matter of all kinds,
are transported in the mail. The power possessed by Congress embraces the regulation of the entire postal system of the
country. The right to designate what shall be carried necessarily involves the right to determine what shall be excluded.
The difliculty attending the subject arises, not from the want
of power in Congress to prescribe regulations as to what shall
constitute mail matter, but from the necessity of enforcing them
consistently with rights reserved to the people, of far- greater
importance than the transportation of the mail. In their en-

Oct. 1877.]

Ex

PARTE JACKSON.

forcement, a distinction is to be made between different kinds
of mail matter, -between what is intended to be kept free from
inspection, such as letters, and sealed packages subject to letter
postage; and what is open to inspection, such as newspapers,
magazines, pamphlets, and other printed matter, purposely left
in a condition to be examined. Letters and sealed packages of
this kind in the mail are as fully guarded from examination
and inspection, except as to their outward form and weight, as
if they were retained by the parties forwarding them in their
own domiciles. The constitutional guaranty of the right of the
people to be secure in their papers against unreasonable searches
and seizures extends to their papers, thus closed against inspection, wherever they may be. Whilst in the mail, they can only
be opened and examined under like warrant, issued upon sinilar oatlk or affirmation, particularly describing the thing to be
seized, as is required when papers are subjected to search in
one's own household. No law of Congress can place in the
hands of officials connected with the postal service any authority to invade the secrecy of letters and such sealed packages in
the mail; and all regulations adopted as to mail matter of this
kind must be in subordination to the great principle embodied
in the fourth amendment of the Constitution.
Nor can any regulations be enforced against the transportation of printed matter in the mail, which is open to examination, so as to interfere in any manner with the freedom of the
press. Liberty of circulating is as essential to that freedom as
liberty of publishing; indeed, without the circulation, the publication would be of little value. If, therefore, printed matter
be excluded from the mails, its transportation in any other way
cannot be forbidden by Congress.
In 1836, the question as to the power of Congress to exclude
publications from the mail was discussed in the Senate; and the
prevailing opinion of its members, as expressed in debate, was
against the existence of the power. President Jackson, in his
annual message of the previous year, had referred to the attempted circulation through the mail of inflammatory appeals,
addressed to the passions of the slaves, in prints, and in various
publications, tending to stimulate them to insurrection; and suggested to Congress the propriety of passing a law prohibitng.

EX PARTE JACKSON.

[Sup. Ct.

under severe.penalties, such circulation of "incendiary publications " in the Southern States. In the Senate, that portion of
the message was referred to a select committee, of which Mr.
Calhoun was chairman; and he made an elaborate report on
the subject, in which he contended that it belonged to the
States, and not to Congress, to determine what is and what is
not calculated to disturb their security, and that to hold otherwise would be fatal to the States; for if Congress might determine what papers were incendiary, and as such prohibit their
circulation through the mail, it might also determine what were
not incendiary, and enforce their circulation. Whilst, therefore, condemning in the strongest terms the circulation of the
publications, he insisted that Congress had not the power to
pass a law prohibiting their transmission through the mail, on
the ground that it would abridge the liberty of the press. "To
understand," he said, "more fully the extent of the control
which the right of prohibiting circulation through the mail
would give to the government over the press, it must be borne
in mind that the power of Congress over the post-office and the
mail is an exclusive power. It must also be remembered that
Congress, in the exercise of this power, may declare any road or
navigable water to be a post-road; and that, by the act of 1825,
it is provided ' that no stage, or other vehicle which regularly
performs trips on a post-road, or on a road parallel to it, shall
carry letters.' The same provision extends to packets, boats,
or other vessels on navigable waters. Like provision may be
extended to newspapers and pamphlets, which, if it be admitted
that Congress has the right to discriminate in reference to their
character. what papers shall or what shall not be transmitted
by the mail, would subject the freedom of the press, on all subjects, political, moral, and religious, completely to its will and
pleasure. It would in fact, in some respects, more effectually
control the freedom of the press than any sedition law, however
severe its penalties." Mr. Calhoun, at the same time, contended
that when a State had pronounced certain publications to be
dangerous to its peace, and prohibited their circulation, it was
the duty of Congress to respect its laws and co-operate in their
enforcement; and whilst, therefore, Congress. could not prohibit
the transmission of the incendiary documents through the mails.

Out. 1877.]

Ex

PAtrE JACKSON.

it could prevent their delivery by the postmasters in the States
where their circulation was forbidden. In the discussion upon
the bill reported by him, similar views against the power of
Congress were expressed by other senators, who did not concur
in the opinion that the delivery of papers could be prevented
when their transmission was permitted.
Great reliance is placed by the petitioner upon these views,
coming, as they did "in many instances, from men alike distin
guished as jurists and statesmen. But it is evident that they
were founded upon the assumption that it was competent for
Congress to prohibit the transportation of newspapers and
pamphlets over postal-routes in any other way than by mail;
and of course it would follow, that if, with such a prohibition,
the transportation in the mail could also be forbidden, the circulation of the documents would be destroyed, and a fatal blow
given to the freedom of the press. But we do not think that
Congress possesses the power to prevent the transportation in
other ways, as merchandise, of matter which it excludes from
the mails. To give efficiency to its regulations and prevent
rival postal systems, it may perhaps prohibit the carriage by
others for hire, over postal routes, of articles which legitimately
constitute mail matter, in the sense in which those terms were
used when the Constitution was adopted, consisting of letters,
and of newspapers and pamphlets, when not sent as merchandise; but further than this its power of prohibition cannot
extend.
Whilst regulations excluding matter from the mail cannot be
enforced in a way which would require or permit an examination into letters, or sealed packages subject to letter postage,
without warrant, issued upon oath or affirmation, in the search
for prohibited matter, they may be enforced upon competent
evidence of their violation obtained in other ways; as from the
parties receiving the letters or packages, or from agents depositing them in the post-office, or others cognizant of the facts.
And as to objectionable printed matter, which is open to examination, the regulations may be enforced in a similar way, by
the imposition of penalties for their violation through the
courts, and, in some cases, by the direct action of the officers
of the postal service. In many instances, those officers can act

Ex PARTE JACKSON.

[Sup. C .

upon their own inspection, and, from the nature of the case,
must act without other proof; as where the postage is not prepaid, or where there is an excess of weight over the amount
prescribed, or where the object is exposed, and shows unmistakably that it is prohibited, as in the case of an obscene
picture or print. In such cases, no difficulty arises, and no
principle is violated, in excluding the prohibited articles or
refusing to forward them. The evidence respecting them is
seen by every one, and is in its nature conclusive.
In excluding various articles from the mail, the object of
Congress has not been to interfere with the freedom of the
press, or with any other rights of the people; but to refuse its
facilities for the distribution of matter deemed injurious to the
public morals. Thus, by the act of March 3, 1873, Congress
declared "that no obscene, lewd, or lascivious book, pamphlet,
picture, paper, print, or other publication of an indecent character, or any article or thing designed or intended for the prevention of conception or procuring of abortion, nor any article
or thing intended or adapted for any indecent or immoral use
or nature, nor any written or printed card, circular, book,
pamphlet, advertisement, or notice of any kind, giving information, directly or indirectly, where, or how, or of whom, or by
what means, either of the things before mentioned may be
obtained or made, nor any letter upon the envelope of which,
or postal-card upon which indecent or scurrilous epithets may
be written or printed, shall be carried in the mail; and any
person who shall knowingly deposit, or cause to be deposited,
for mailing or delivery, any of the hereinbefore mentioned articles or things, . .. shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
and, on conviction thereof, shall, for every offence, be fined not
less than $100, nor more than $5,000, or imprisonment at hard
labor not less than one year nor more than ten years, or both,
in the discretion of the judge."
All that Congress meant by this act was, that the mail should
not be used to transport such corrupting publications and articles, and that any one who attempted to use it for that purpose
should be punished. The same inhibition has been extended to
circulars concerning lotteries, - institutions which are supposed
to have a demoralizing influence upon the people. There is no

Oct. 1877.]

NATIONAL BANK V. OMAHA.

question before us as to the evidence upon which the conviction of the petitioner was had; nor does it appear whether the
envelope in which the prohibited circular was deposited in the
mail was sealed or left open for examination. The only ques
tion for our determination relates to the constitutionalit3 of the
act; and of that we have no doubt.
The commitment of the petitioner to the county jail, until'his
fine was paid, was within the discretion of the court under the
statute.
As there is an exemplified copy of the record of the petitioner's indictment and conviction accompanying the petition, the
merits of his case have been considered at his request upon this
application; and, as we are of opinion that his imprisonment is
legal, no object would be subserved by issuing the writs; they
are therefore
Denied.

NATIONAL BANx v. OmAHA.
1. Even though an appeal is asked for in open court, if the security is not taken
until after the term, a citation must be issued to bring in the parties, unless
they voluntarily appear.
2. The ruling in O'Rdlly v. Edrington (supra, p. 724), that a judge or justice cannot delegate to the clerk the power to approve the security upon writs of
erroi and appeals, approved, and applied to this case.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska.

M1r. J. 3. Woolworth for the appellant.
No counsel appeared for the appellee.
MR. Cnm.Er JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The decree in this case was rendered Nov. 13, 1874; and at
the end appears the following entry :
"Whereupon said complainant, by its solicitor, prays an
appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States, which is
allowed; and bond to be given on said appeal is fixed at .500."
A bond was filed Sept. 80, 1875, which appears to have been
VOL. vI

47

