432

MURRAY V. CHARLESTON.

[Sup. Ct.

principles upon which the adjustment had been made.' In
effect, this was an offer to pay the balance stated in satisfaction
of the claim. The acceptance of the money afterwards, without objection, was equivalent to an acceptance of the payment
in satisfaction.
But there is another objection to the recovery which is equally
good. It is well settled that, where a party brings an action
for a part only of an entire indivisible demand, and recovers
judgment, be cannot subsequently maintain an action for another part of the same demand. Warren v. Comings, 6 Cush.
(Mass.) 103. Thus, if there are several sums due under one
contract, and a suit is brought for a part only, a judgment in
that suit will be a bar to another action for the recovery of the
residue. Here was a contract by which the government was
bound to pay for the engines in accordance with terms agreed
upon. The entire price to be paid was not fixed. A part was
contingent, and the amount made to depend upon a variety of
circumstances. When the former action was commenced in the
Court of Claims, the whole was due. Although different elements entered into the account, they all depended upon and
were embraced in one contract. The judgment, therefore,
for the part then sued upon is a bar to this action for the
"residue."
Judgment affirmed.

MURRAY v.

CHARLESTON.

1. Wherever rights, acknowledged and protected by the Constitution of the Umtea
States, are denied or invaded by State legislation, which is sustained by the
judgment of a State court, this court is authorized to interfere. Its jurisdiction, therefore, to re-examine such judgment cannot be defeated by showing
that the record does not in direct terms refer to some constitutional provision, nor expressly state that a Federal question was presented. The true
jurisdictional test is, whether it appears that such a question was decided
adversely to the Federal right.
2. The provision in that Constitution, that no State shall pass a law impairing the
obligation of contracts, is a limitation upon the taxing power of a State as
well as upon all its legislation, whatever form it may assume. Therefore,
a law changing the stipulations of a contract, or relieving a debtor from a
strict and literal compliance with its requirements, enacted by a State in
the exercise of that power, is unconstitutional and void.

Oct. 1877.]

MURRAY V. CHARLESTON.

3. A city, when it borrows money and promises to repay it with interest, cannot
by its own ordinances, under the guise of taxation, relieve itself from performing to the letter all that it has expressly promised to its creditors.
4. Debts are not property. A non-resident creditor of a city cannot be said to
be, in virtue of a debt which it owes him, a holder of property within its
limits.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of South Carolina.
In 1783, the State of South Carolina incorporated the city of
Charleston. Among other powers conferred upon it was that
of making "such assessments on the inhabitants of Charleston,
or those who hold taxable property within the same, for the
safety, convenience, benefit, and advantage of the city, as shall
appear to them expedient."
Under this power, there was an ordinance of the city, ratified
March 22,1870, "to raise supplies for the fiscal year ending Dec.
31,1870." Sect. 1 authorizes and requires the city appraiser to
assess a tax of two cents upon the dollar of the value of all real
and personal property in the city, for the purpose of meeting
the expenses of the city government for the current fiscal year.
Sect. 3 directs that the tax assessed on city stock shall be
retained by the city treasurer out of the interest thereon, when
the same is due and payable.
A similar ordinance was ratified March 1, 1871, for the fiscal
year ending Dec. 31, 1871.
The tax was accordingly assessed. That upon the city stock
was retained out of the interest due on it to the holders thereof.
Murray, as a holder, brought suit, Nov. 17, 1871, in the
Court of Common Pleas for the county of Charleston against
the city council of Charleston, to recover the dmount of the
tax which the treasurer had retained out of the interest due to
him, alleging that the said tax was illegal.
The answer of the council, among other matters, sets forth
that the stock was duly assessed, and that it was not expressly
exempted from taxation by the ordinance under which it was
issued.
The court tried the case without a jury, and found the following facts: 1. That the plaintiff has been, since January, 1870,
the holder and owner of $35,262.33 of six per cent stock issued
by defendant, the interest thereon payable quarterly. 2. That
the plaintiff is not a resident of Charleston, but a resident of
28
von. v1.

MURRAY v. CHARLESTON.

[Sup. Ot.

Bonn, Germany. 3. That the defendant owed the plaintiff for
interest on his said stock the several sums set forth in the
fourth paragraph of the complaint, on the several days therein
named, and that it paid the same to him, less certain sums retained. 4. That the several sums so retained by the defendant,
amounting in all to $440.75, were by the defendant kept as the
amount of taxes due from the said plaintiff to the said city, being
a tax at the rate of two per cent per annum upon the principal of
said stock, said tax being imposed by virtue of the ordinance of
the said city council of Charleston, ratified March 22,1870, entitled "An ordinance to raise supplies for the fiscal year ending
Dec. 31, 1870," and a similar ordinance, ratified March 1, 1871,
to raise supplies for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 1871, and
that said stock was not specifically exempted from taxation by
the ordinance under which it was issued. 5. That the plaintiff,
by his agent, protested against the deduction of said tax, and
duly entered his protest on each receipt for interest on said
stock. The court announced as conclusions of law: 1. That the city
council of Charleston, as a municipal corporation, has a right,
under the constitution and laws of the State, to tax the property
of the plaintiff invested in stock issued by it, said stock not
being specifically exempted by law from taxation, nor being
exempt from taxation by the ordinance under which it was
issued. 2. That the city council of Charleston had a right to
collect the tax imposed on the property of the plaintiff in said
stock by retaining the amount of such tax out of paymentY
made to the plaintiff on account of the interest due thereon,
and the plaintiff cannot recover the same.
Judgment was accordingly rendered, whereupon Murray
appealed to the Supreme Court, and in his notice of appeal
set forth the following grounds: 1. That plaintiff, being resident in a foreign country, is not liable to the tax levied and
retained by the city council. 2. That the laws of the State
do not authorize the city council to levy and retain a tax upon
its own stock. 3. That the levying and retaining of said tax
is a violation of good faith in the contract of loan, and impairs
the obligation of said contract, and is, therefore, unconstitutional
and void. The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the

Oct. 1877.]

MURRAY v. CHARLESTON.

Court of Common Pleas, and held that the stock was taxable
property within the city, and that the right of taxing it "existed at the time of the contract, and so entered into it as to
become one of its necessary elements and attributes. The
obligation of the contract was not impaired by the imposition
,of the tax, because it was a property which attached to the
contract."
Murray then sued out this writ of error.
3Ir. James Conner for the plaintiff in error.
1. This court has jurisdiction. The plaintiff in error, in seeking to reverse the judgment of the Court of Common Pleas,
specifically assigned in his notice of appeal that the tax impaired
the obligation of his contract with the city. The constitutionality, therefore, of the ordinances levying the tax, which were
passed in the exercise of an alleged authority derived from the
State, was thus directly drawn in question and necessarily involved; and neither court could have decided adversely to him
without affirming their validity.
2. The stock in question, although it be registered and the
certificates transferable only on the books of the city,- a provision for the greater security of the holder, - does not dif
fer in its legal effect from an ordinary money-bond. It is a
chose in action, attesting his right to demand a specific sum at
stated intervals, and the city's correlative obligation to pay it.
Having, in this instance, its situs at a foreign domicile, it is
not subject to the taxing power of Charleston, which is confined
to persons and property within the limits of the city. Railroad
Company v. Jackson, 7 Wall. 262; Tappan v. lerchants' National Bank, 19 id. 490; State Tax on Foreign-Held Bonds,
15 id. 800 ; The City of Davenport v. The Mississippi # Aissouri
Railroad Co. et al., 12 Iowa, 589; Hunter v. Board of Supervisors, 33 id. 379; The State v. Ross, 3 Zab. (N. J.) 517; Collins v. Miller, 43 Ga. 336; Johnson v. City Council of Oregon
City, 3 Oreg. 13.
3. The ordinances impose a tax upon a subsisting contract,
and alter its terms by withholding part of the stipulated interest due thereon. They thus impair its obligation. The city
cannot, by the exercise of its taxing power, find a justification
in morals or in constitutional law for a breach of its contract.

MURRAY V. CHARLESTON.

[Sul). Ct.

Weston and Others v. City Council of Charleston, 2 Pet. 449 ;
3 Hamilton, Works, 519; Jelison v. Lee et al., 3 Woodb. &
M. 376.
Mr. Philip Phillips,MIr. R. B. Carpenter,and Mr. James B.
Campbell, contra.
1. Murray did not, in the Common Pleas, put his right to
recover upon the ground that the ordinances levying the tax,
and directing that it be retained from the interest due upon his
stock, were in violation of the Constitution of the United States,
nor did he invoke the protection of that instrument. When the
Supreme Court of a State is asked to reverse the judgment of
a subordinate court, error in the record must be shown, and no
question can be made on any new matter presented in the appellate court; and, to enable a party here to ask a reversal of a
judgment of the Supreme Court, it is not sufficient to show
that a Federal question was, by an assignment of error, raised
for the first time in that court. Fisher's Lessee v. Cockerell,
5 Pet. 248.
2. The act of South Carolina granting the charter was in
force prior to the adoption of the Federal Constitution, and
neither it nor the ordinances passed pursuant to it are subject
to the clause which forbids a State to pass a law impairing the
obligation of contracts. No jurisdiction, therefore, exists here.
Owings v. Speed et al., 5 Wheat. 420; League v. De Young,
11 How. 185. The failure of the State court to give full effect
to a contract does not in itself furnish grounds for review.
Knox v. Exchange Bank, 12 Wall. 379.
3. The stock was not exempt from taxation by an ordinance
of the city or a law of the State. Neither the decision of the
Supreme Court, holding that it was personal property within
the city, and that the ordinances imposing the tax were passed
in the execution of a power conferred by the charter and justified by its terms, nor the imputed injustice and oppression of
the tax, furnish grounds for review here. Providence Bank v.
Billings, 4 Pet. 514; Mills v. St. Clair County, 8 How. 569;
Satterlee v. Mathewson, 2 Pet. 380; West River Bridge Company
v. -Dix, 6 How. 507; Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533. The
taxing power of the several States, except where restrained by
the Federal or the State Constitution, extends to every species

Oct. 1877.]

MURRAY V. CHARLESi'ON.

of property which exists by their authority or is introduced by
their permission. iltc Culloghv. The State of Haryland,4 Wheat.
316; Weston and Others v. City Council of Charleston, 2 Pet.
449; New Orleans v. Clark, 95 U. S. 644; Lane County v.
Oregon, 7 Wall. 71. Exemption from its exercise can never
be claimed by mere implication, but only from clear and express
declaration ; and if such exemption be a mere gratuity, the act
granting it may be modified or repealed in like manner as other
legislation. Pucker v. Ferguson, 22 Wall. 527; West Wisconsin
Railroad Co. v. Board of Supervisors of Trempealeaa County,
93 U. S. 595. In this case, there is not even the slightest implication, nor presumption arising from the nature of the contract or otherwise, that the city renounced the right of taxing
the stock.
4. Murray insists upon his non-residence. Tangible personal
effects and real estate in Charleston are taxed there; and if
sound reasons can be given for discriminating in favor of this
property, they should be presented to the legislature, as they
do not touch the case in its judicial aspects. If a citizen holds
certificates of stock which may be taxed, his transfer of them
to a non-resident does not create a new obligation, nor exclude
the law from operating upon them. The same elements of consideration exist in each case, and the judgment must be the
same. In Catlin v. Bull (21 Vt. 152), debts due to non-residents were taxed. The court said that the doctrine as to the
situs of personal property did not conflict with the actual jurisdiction over it by the State where it is situated, or with the
right to subject it, in common with other property, to share
the burden of the government by taxation, and that this had
been the settled practice of that State, not dnly in reference to
tangible property, but to that which is incorporeal; and the
late Chief Justice Tilghman held that personal property, if
invisible (consisting of debts), has a locality in the place where
the debtor resides. Story, Contr., sect. 883.
Charleston, in determining that property of this description,
created by her authority and situate within her limits, should,
without regard to the domicile of the owner, contribute its just
share toward the public expenditure, followed a conspicuous
example. By sect. 120 of the act of June 30, 1864 (13 Stat.

438

MURRAY v. CHARLESTON.

[Sup. Ct.

283), a tax was levied by the United States on the dividends
of corporations, without reference to the citizenship of the owner
of the stock; and this section was by the act of March 10, 1866,
declared to embrace "non-residents, whether citizens or aliens."
14 id. 4. By the act of July 13, 1866, a tax was levied upon
the "gains and profits" of any business or trade carried on in
the United States by " persons residing without the United
States, not citizens thereof." Id. 138.
At all events, Murray's claim that his stock was exempt from
taxation by reason of his foreign residence, and that extra-territorial effect was given by the judgment below to a State law
does not raise a Federal question.
5. The ordinances are not unconstitutional. When the certificates were issued, the council was vested with power to tax
the stock. They were, therefore, purchased with notice that
they were subject to the exercise of that power, and they were
held in subordination to it. The law touching the liability of
the res to taxation entered into the contract, and became one
of its essential elements. The ordinances do not engraft a
new condition upon it, or modify its stipulations. It is said,
however, that its obligation is impaired, because, by reason of
them, the holder receives a diminished income from it. This
is but another form of asserting that a tax cannot be rightfully
assessed against the stock; for, if it can, the mode of collecting it
is immaterial. Whether, when sued on a contract, the city can
claim, by way of set-off, the taxes due to her from the plaintiff;
whether she can enforce the collection of them by suit, or by
garnishment of moneys due to him, or by a summary sale of the
res, - are matters of local jurisprudence, which have no more
relation to the alleged Federal question involved, or to the real
merits of the controversy, than has the proposition that taxes
are not debts within the meaning of the legal-tender enactments.
If the ordinances are valid without the provision for deducting
the tax from the accrued interest and retaining it, they are
valid with it.
The right of the States to tax their own securities has been
judicially affirmed. Champaign ('ounty Bank v. Smith, 7 Ohio
St. 42; People v. Home Insurance Co., 29 Cal. 533. There
is no reported case in conflict with these decisions. Not only

Oct. 1877.]

MURRAY V. CHARLESTON.

does this conform to the settled practice of the British govern
ment, but the United States has asserted the same right. By
sect. 49 of the act of Aug. 5, 1861 (12 Stat. 309), sect. 90 of
the act of July, 1862 (id. 473), sect. 116 of the act of June
30, 1864 (13 id. 281), and by sect. 1 of the act of March 3,
1865 (id. 479), the tax on income includes bonds and other
securities of the United States.
It is no answer to say that such a tax is not directly laid
apon the thing. If it be a breach of contract or of good faith
to tax directly, it is equally so to secure the same result by
indirect means. That rule is not sound which makes the
thing untaxable when it alone is assessed, and taxable when it
is included with the rest of the owner's property of every kind
MR. JUSTICE STIOING delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff, a resident of Bonn, in Germany, was, prior to
the first day of January, 1870, and he still is, the holder and
owner of $35,262.35 of what is called stock of the city of
Charleston. The stock is in reality a debt of the city, the evidence of which is certificates, whereby the city promises to
pay to the owners thereof the sums of money therein mentioned, together with six per cent interest, payable quarterly.
One-third of the interest due the plaintiff on the first days of
April, July, and October, 1870, and January and July, 1871,
having been retained by the city, this suit was brought to re2over the sums so retained; and the answer to the complaint
admitted the retention charged, but attempted to justify it
under city ordinances of March 20, 1870, and March 21, 1871
By these ordinances, set out in full in the answer,, the city appraiser was directed to assess a tax of two cents upon the
dollar of the value of all real and personal property in the city
of Charleston, for the purpose of meeting the expenses of the
city government; and the third section of each ordinance declared that the taxes assessed on city stock should be retained
by the city treasurer out of the interest thereon, when the
same is due and payable. On these pleadings the case was
submitted to the court for trial without a jury; and the court
made a special finding of facts, substantially as set forth in the
complaint and averred in the answer, upon which judgment

MURRAY V. CHARLESTON.

[Sup. Ct.

was given for the defendant. This judgment was subsequently
affirmed by the Supreme Court, and the record is now before us, brought here by writ of error. It is objected that
we have no jurisdiction of the case, because, it is said, no Federal question was raised of record, or decided in the Court of
Common Pleas, where the suit was commenced.
The city of Charleston was incorporated in 1783, before the
adoption of the Federal Constitution. Among other powers
conferred upon the city council was one to "make such assessments on the inhabitants of Charleston, or those who hold taxable property within the same, for the safety, convenience,
benefit, and advantage of the city, as shall appear to them expedient." It was under this authority, repeated in subsequent
legislation, the city ordinances of 1870 and 1871 were made.
It may well be doubted whether the acts of the legislature
were intended to empower the city to tax for its own benefit
the debts it might owe to its creditors, especially to its nonresident creditors. Debts are not property. A non-resident
creditor cannot be said to be, in virtue of a debt due to him, a
holder of property within the city; and the city council was
authorized to make assessments only upon the inhabitants of
Charleston, or those holding taxable property within the same.
To that extent the Supreme Court of the State has decided the
city has power to assess for taxation. That decision we have
no authority to review. But neither the charter itself, nor any
subsequent acts of legislation, directly or expressly interfered
with any debts due by the city, or gave to the city any power
over them. They simply gave limited legislative power to the
city council.. It was not until the ordinances were passed
under the supposed authority of the legislative act that their
provisions became the law of the State. It was only when the
ordinances assessed a tax upon the city debt, and required a
part of it to be withheld from the creditors, that it became the
law of the State that such a withholding could be made. The
validity of the authority given by the State, as well as the validity of the ordinances themselves, was necessarily before the
Court of Common Pleas when this case was tried; and no
judgment could have been given for the defendants without
determining that the ordinances were laws of the State, not

Oct. 1877.]

MURRAY v. CHARLESTON.

impairing the obligation of the contracts made by the city
with the plaintiff. And when the case was removed into the
Supreme Court of the State, that court understood a Federal
question to be before it. One of the grounds of the notice of
the appeal was "that such a tax is a violation of good faith in
the contract of loan, impairs the obligation of said contract,
and is, therefore, unconstitutional and void." It is plain,
therefore, that both in the Common Pleas and in the Supreme
Court of the State a Federal question was presented by the
pleadings and was decided, - decided in favor of the State
legislation, and against a right the plaintiff claims he has under
the Constitution of the United States. The city ordinances
were in question on the ground of their repugnancy to the
inhibition upon the States to make any law impairing the obligation of contracts; and the decision was in favor of their
validity. Nothing else was presented for decision, unless it be
the question whether the acts of the State legislature authorized the ordinances; and that was ruled affirmatively. The
jurisdiction of this court over the judgments of the highest
courts of the States is not to be avoided by the mere absence of
express reference to some provision of the Federal Constitution.
Wherever rights acknowledged and protected by that instrument are denied or invaded under the shield of State legislation, this court is authorized to interfere. The form and mode
in which the Federal question is raised in the State court is of
minor importance, if, in fact, it was raised and decided. The
act of Congress of 1867 gives jurisdiction to this court over
final judgments in the highest courts of a State in suits "where
is di awn in question the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under, any State, on the ground of their
being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the
United States, and the decision is in favor of their validity."
Not a word is said respecting the mode in which it shall be
made to appear that such a question was presented for decision. In the present case, it was necessarily involved, without any formal reference to any clause in the Constitution, and
it is difficult to see how any such reference could have been
made to appear exlressly.
In questions relating to our jurisdiction, undue importance is

MURRAY V. CHARLESTON.

[Sup. (it.

often attributed to the inquiry whether the pleadings in the
State court expressly assert a right under the Federal Constitution. The true test is not whether the record exhibits an
express statement that a Federal question was presented, but
whether such a question was decided, and decided adversely to
the Federal right. Everywhere in our decisions it has been
held that we may review the judgments of a State court when
the determination or judgment of that court could not have
been given without deciding upon a right or authority claimed
to exist under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United
States, and deciding against that right. Very little importance
has been attached to the inquiry whether the Federal question
was formally raised. In Crowell v. Randall (10 Pet. 368), it
was laid down, after a review of almost all our previous decisions, " that it is not necessary the question should appear on
the record to have been raised, and the decision made in direct
and positive terms, in ipsissimis verbis, but that it is sufficient
if it appears by clear and necessary intendment that the question must have been raised, and must have been decided, in
order to have induced the judgment." This case was followed
by Armstrong et al. v. The Treasurerof Athens Couty (16 id.
281), where it was held sufficient to give this court jurisdiction
if it appear from the record of the State court that the Federal
question was necessarily involved in the decision, and that the
court could not have given the judgment or decree which they
passed without deciding it. See also Bridge Proprietorsv. The
ifobolcen Company, 1 Wall. 116, and Furman v." Nichol, 8 id.
44.
That involved in the judgment of the Court of CommonL
Pleas and in that of the Supreme Court of the State was a
decision that the city ordinances of Charleston were valid, that
they did control the contract of the city with the plaintiff, and
that they did not impair its obligation, is too plain for argument. The plaintiff complains that the city has not fully performed its contracts according to their terms, that it has paid
only four per cent interest instead of six per cent, which it
promised to pay, and that it has retained two per cent of the
interest for its own use. The city admits all this, but attempts
to justify its retention of one-third of what it promised to pay

out. 1877.]

MURUAY V. CHARLESTON.

by pleading its own ordinances directing its officer to withhold
the two per cent of the interest promised whenever it became
due and payable according to the stipulations of the contract,
calling the amount detained a tax. Of course, the question is
directly presented whether the ordinances are a justification;
whether they can and do relieve the debtor from full compliance with the promise; in other words, whether the ordinances are valid and may lawfully be applied to the contract.
The court gave judgment for the defendant, which would have
been impossible had it not been held that they have the force
of law, notwithstanding the Constitution of the United States,
and the Supreme Court affirmed the judgment. Our jurisdiction, therefore, is manifest.
We come, then, to the question whether the ordinances
decided by the court to be valid did impair the obligation of
the city's contract with the plaintiff. The solution of this
question depends upon a correct understanding of what that
obligation was. By the certificates of stock, or city loan, held
by the plaintiff, the city assumed to pay to him the sum mentioned in them, and to pay six per cent interest in quarterly
payments. The obligation undertaken, therefore, was both to
pay the interest at the rate specified, and to pay it to the plaintiff. Such was the contract, and such was the whole contract.
It contained no reservation or restriction of the duty described.
But the city ordinances, if they can have any force, change
both the form and effect of the undertaking. They are the
language of the promisor. In substance, they say to the creditor: "True, our assumption was to pay to you quarterly a
sum of money equal to six per cent per annum on the debt we
owe you. Such was our express engagement. But we now
lessen our obligation. Instead of paying all the interest to you,
we retain a part for ourselves, and substitute the part retained
for a part of what we expressly promised you." Thus applying
the ordinances to the contract, it becomes a very different thing
from what it was when it was made; and the change is effected
by legislation, by ordinances of the city, enacted under the
asserted authority of laws passed by the legislature. That by,
such legislation the obligation of the contract is impaired is manifest enough, unless it can be held there was some implied reser-

MURRAY V. CHARLESTON.

[Sup. Ct.

vation of a right in the creditor to change its terms, a right
reserved when the contract was made, -unless some power was
withheld, not expressed or disclosed, but which entered into
and limited the express undertaking. But how that can be, how an express contract can contain an implication, or consist
with a reservation directly contrary to the words of the instru
ment, has never yet been discovered.
It has been strenuously argued on behalf of the defendant
that the State of South Carolina and the city council of
Charleston possessed the power of taxation when the contracts
were made, that by the contracts the city did not surrender
this power, that, therefore, the contracts were subject to its
possible exercise, and that the city ordinances were only an
exertion of it. We are told the power of a State to impose
taxes upon subjects within its jurisdiction is unlimited (with
some few exceptions), and that it extends to every thing that
exists by its authority or is introduced by its permission.
Hence it is inferred that the contracts of the city of Charleston
were made with reference to this power, and in subordination
to it.
All this may be admitted, but it does not meet the case of
the defendant. We do not question the existence of a State
power to levy taxes as claimed, nor the subordination of contracts to it, so far as it is unrestrained by constitutional limitation. But the power is not without limits, and one of its
limitations is found in the clause of the Federal Constitution,
that no State shall pass a law impairing the obligation of contracts. A change of the expressed stipulations of a contract,
or a relief of a debtor from strict and literal compliance with
its requirements, can no more be effected by an exertion of the
taxing power than it can be by the exertion of any other
power of a State legislature. The constitutional provision
against impairing contract obligations is a limitation upon the
taxing power, as well as upon all legislation, whatever form it
may assume. Indeed, attempted State taxation is the mode
most frequently adopted to affect contracts contrary to the
constitutional inhibition. It most frequently calls for the
exercise of our supervisory power. It may, then, safely be
affirmed that no State, by virtue of its taxing power, can say to

Oct. 1877.]

MURRAY V. CHARLESTON.

a debtor, "You need not pay to your creditor all of what you
have promised to him. You may satisfy your duty to him by
retaining a part for yourself, or for some municipality, or for
the State treasury." Much less can a city say, "We will tax
our debt to you, and in virtue of the tax withhold a part for
our own use."
What, then, is meant by the doctrine that contracts are
made with reference to the taxing power resident in the State,
and in subordination to it? Is it meant that when a person
lends money to a State, or to a municipal division of the State
having the power of taxation, there is in the contract a tacit
reservation of a right in the debtor to raise contributions out
of the money promised to be paid before payment? That cannot be, because if it could, the contract (in the language of
Alexander Hamilton) would "involve two contradictory things:
an obligation to do, and a right not to do; an obligation to pay
a certain sum, and a right to retain it in the shape of a tax. It
is against the rules, both of law and of reason, to admit by
implication in the construction of a contract a principle which
goes in destruction of it." The truth is, States and cities,
when they borrow money and contract to repay it with interest, are not acting as sovereignties. They come down to the
level of ordinary individuals. Their contracts have the same
meaning as that of similar contracts between private persons.
Hence, instead of there being in the undertaking of a State or city
to pay, a reservation of a sovereign right to withhold payment,
the contract should be regarded as an assurance that such a right
will not be exercised. A promise to pay, with a reserved right
to deny or change the effect of the promise, is an absurdity.
Is, then, property, which consists in the promise of a State,
or of a municipality of a State, beyond the reach of taxation?
We do not affirm that it is. A State may undoubtedly tax
any of its creditors within its jurisdiction for the debt due to
him, and regulate the amount of the tax by the rate of interest
the debt bears, if its promise be left unchanged. A tax thus
laid impairs no obligation assumed. It leaves the contract
untouched. But until payment of the debt or interest has
been made, as stipulated, we think no act of State sovereignty
can work an exoneration from what has been promised to the

MURRAY V. CHARLESTON.

LSup. Ct.

creditor; namely, payment to him, without a violation of the
Constitution. "The true rule of every case of property founded
on contract with the government is this: It must first be reduced into possession, and then it will become subject, in common with other similar property, to the right of the government
to raise contributions upon it. It may be said that the government may fulfil this principle by paying the interest with one
hand, and taking back the amount of the tax with the other.
But to this the answer is, that, to comply truly with the rule,
the tax must be upon all the money of the community, not
upon the particular portion of it which is paid to the public
creditors, and it ought besides to be so regulated as not to include a lien of the tax upon the fund. The creditor should be
no otherwise acted upon than as every other possessor of money;
and, consequently, the money he receives from the public can
then only be a fit subject of taxation when it is entirely separated" (from the contract), "and thrown undistinguished into
the common mass." .3 Hamilton, Works, 514 et seq. Thus only
can contracts with the State be allowed to have the same meaning as all other similar contracts have.
Such limitations of the power of State taxation we have
heretofore recognized. We have held property in one stage of
its ownership not to be taxable, and in a succeeding stage to be
taxable. Those decisions are not without some analogy to the
rule we have mentioned. Thus, in Brown v. M1ary/land (12
Wheat. 419-441), where it was held that a State tax could not
be levied, by the requisition of a license, upon importers of
merchandise by the bale or package, or upon other persons
selling the goods imported by the bale or package, Mr. Chief
Justice Marshall, considering both the prohibition upon States
against taxing imports, and their general power to tax persons
and property, said: "Where the importer has so acted upon
the thing imported that it has become incorporated and mixed
up with the mass of property in the country, it has, perhaps,
lost its distinctive character as an import, and has become subject to the taxing power of the State." Vide also Woodruff v.
Param,8 Wall. 123; State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts,
15 id. 284. A tax on income derived from contracts, if it
does not prevent the receipt of the income, cannot be said

Oct. 1877.)

MURRAY V. CHARLESTON.

to vary or lessen the debtor's obligation imposed by the contracts.
In opposition to the conclusion we have reached we are referred to Champaign County Bank v. Smith (7 Ohio St. 42),
and People v. Home Insurance Co. (29 Cal. 533), in which it
is said the power of a State to tax its own bonds was sustained.
We do not, however, regard those cases as in conflict with the
opinion we now hold; and, if they were, they would not con
trol our judgment when we are called upon to determine the
meaning and extent of the Federal Constitution. In the former,
it appeared that the tax collected was in virtue of an assessment
of State bonds belonging to the bank, but deposited with the
auditor of State as security for the circulating notes of the
company. The tax thus assessed having been carried into
the duplicate, the collector seized and appropriated the banknotes and money of the bank, and suit was brought to recover
the amount so taken. In sustaining a demurrer to the petition,
the court held, it is true, that a State has power to tax its own
bonds equally with other property, and that the exercise of
such a power involves no violation of a contract. But it was
not held that the State could collect the tax by withholding
from the creditor any part of what the State had assumed to
pay. The tax was laid not upon the debt, but upon the creditor; and it was collected not out of what the State owed, but
out of the general property of the bank. Neither by the assessment nor in the collection was there any interference with
the contract. In People v. Home Insurance Company, the question was whether bonds of the State of California, belonging to
a New York insurance company, but deposited and kept in the
State, as required by an act to tax and regulate foreign insurance companies doing business in the State, were assessable for
taxation there. It was ruled that they were. This case, no
more than the former, meets the question we have before us.
It certainly does not hold that a State or a city, by virtue of its
taxing power, can convert its undertaking to pay a debt bearing
six per cent interest into one bearing only four.
These are the only cases cited to us as directly sustaining
the judgment we have now in view. How far short of sustaining it they are must be apparent. And we know of none that

MURRAY V. CHARLESTON.

[Sup. Ot.

are more in point. It seems incredible that there can be any,
for, as we said in Railroad Company v. Pennsylvania(15 Wall.
300), "the law which requires the treasurer of the company
(indebted) to retain five per cent of the interest due to the
non-resident bondholder is not . . . a legitimate exercise of
the taxing power. It is a law which interferes between the
company and the bondholder, and, under the pretence of levying a tax, commands the company to withhold a portion of the
stipulated interest and pay it over to the State. It is a law
which thus impairs the obligation of the contract between the
parties. The obligation of a contract depends upon its terms
and the means which the law in existence at the time affords
for its enforcement. A law which alters the terms of a contract, by imposing new conditions, or dispensing with those
expressed, is a law which impairs its obligation; for such a law
.. . relieves the parties from the moral duty of performing
the original stipulations of the contract, and it prevents their
legal enforcement." This was said, it is true, in a case where
the question was, whether a tax thus imposed upon a non-resident holder of bonds issued by a company chartered by the
State was warranted by the Constitution. But, so far as it
speaks of what constitutes impairing the contract obligation, it
is applicable, in its fullest extent, to all legislation affecting
contracts, no matter who may be the parties.
We do not care now to enter upon the consideration of the
question whether a State can tax a debt due by one of its citizens or municipalities to a non-resident creditor, or whether it
has any jurisdiction over such a creditor, or over the credit he
owns. Such a discussion is not necessary, and it may be
doubtful whether the question is presented to us by this record.
It is enough for the present case that we hold, as we do, that
no municipality of a State can, by its own ordinances, under
the guise of taxation, relieve itself from performing to the
letter all that it has expressly promised to its creditors.
There is no more important provision in the Federal Constitution than the one which prohibits States from passing laws
impairing the obligation of contracts, and it is one of the highest duties of this court to take care the prohibition shall neither
be evaded nor frittered away. Complete effect must be given

Oct. 1877.]

MURRAY V. CHARLESTON.

it in all its spirit. The inviolability of contracts, and the
duty of performing them, as made, are foundations of all wellordered society, and to prevent the removal or disturbance of
these foundations was one of the great objects for which the
Constitution was framed.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of South Carolina will
be reversed, and the record remitted with instructions to proceed in accordance with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.
to

MR. JUSTICE Mi LER, with whom concurred MR. JUSTmE
HUNT, dissenting.
I am of opinion that the power of taxation found in the
charter of the city of Charleston, long before the contract was
made which is here sued on, entered, like all other laws, into
the contract, and became a part of it. In other words, the contract was made subject to this power of taxation by the city
of Charleston, as found in her charter from 1781 to the present
time.
The imposition and collection of this tax cannot, therefore,
impair the obligation of a contract which was made subject to
her right to exercise that power. I therefore dissent.
NOTE.- In Jendins v. Charleston, error to the Supreme Court of the State ot
South Carolina, which was argued by Mr. A. G. Afagrath and Mr. James Lowndes
for the plaintiff in error, and by the same counsel for the defendant in error as
was the preceding case, Ma. JUSTICE STEONG, in delivering the opinion of the
court, remarked: This case is like Hurray v. Charleston, and is governed by the
decision there made.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State will be reversed, and the
record remitted with instructions to proceed in accordance with this opinion;
and it is
So ordered.
Mn. JUSTICE MILLER amd MR. JUSTICE HUNT diesented.

VOL. VI.

