AMES V. QumIBY.

LSup. Ct.

sumption will continue until overcome by proof that the instrument as executed and delivered was valid.
We are of the opinion that, because this record does not show
a patent countersigned by the recorder, it is not sufficient to
prove title in the party under whom MeGarrahan claims. This
makes it unnecessary to consider any of the other questions
which have been argued; and the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD and MR. JUSTICE
part in the decision of this cause.

HARLAN took no

AmES v. QumBry.
A contract for furnishing goods at a certain price, based on the then value of
gold, stipulated that such price should be increased or reduced with the rise
or the fall in that value, with a proviso, however, that a rise or a fall of twentyfive per cent, unless it remained sufficiently long to affect the general price of
merchandise, should not change the contract price of the goods. When they
were delivered, gold had undergone a reduction of more than twenty-five per
cent below its value at the date of the contract. Ield, that in a suit on the
contract the purchaser was entitled to a corresponding reduction in the contract price of the goods, without showing that the decline in gold had affected
the general price of merchandise.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Western District of Michigan.
Quiinby brought an action against Ames & Sons, upon the
following contract, viz.: "N. EASTON, Jan. 2, 1865.
"Mr. Ichabod L. Quimby agrees to furnish us, and we to take
from him, fifteen thousand dozen long shovel-handles, to be of the
best quality of timber and workmanship, for the present year, the
price to be ($1.25) one dollar and twenty-five cents per dozen, basing
the price on the present price of gold, $2.25.
" If the price of gold goes up or down, then the price of handles
shall be advanced or reduced accordingly. But it is understood
that no advance or reduction of the price of gold of twenty-five
per cent shall change the price of handles, unless it shall remain at
the advanced or reduced rate sufficiently long to affect the general
price of merchandise.
"I. L. Qunmy.
"OLIVER AMES & SoNs."

Oct. 1877.]

AIEs V. QUIMBY.

Quimby, in the mouths of May and July, 1865, furnished the
full complement of shovel-handles, and four hundred and fortyeight dozen in excess of the requirements of the contract. There
were delivered nine thousand eight hundred and twelve dozen,
May 20, 22, and 23, when gold was worth 81.81; one thousand
one hundred and eighty-eight dozen, May 25, when gold was
worth $1.36; and four thousand four hundred and forty-eight
dozen, July 29, when gold was worth $1.45.
The price of gold having been reduced more than twenty-five
per cent below $2.25, Ames & Sons claimed a corresponding
reduction in their price of the handles; which would bring
those delivered from May 20 to 23, inclusive, down to seventytwo and a half cents; those delivered May 25, down to seventyfive and a half cents; and those delivered July 29, down to
eighty and a half cents, per dozen: but the court held that, to
entitle them to any reduction, there must be proof that the
decline in gold had at those dates affected the general price of
merchandise; and, there being no such proof, judgment was given
accordingly. Ames & Sons thereupon sued out this writ of
,error.
Hr.J. Smiley for the plaintiffs in error.

Mr.L. ). Vorris, contra.
MR. JUSTICE. Hu-TT delivered the opinion of the court.
The contract of the parties is, in several particulars, susceptible of different constructions. Thus, the price of the articles to
be delivered is fixed at $1.25 per dozen, to be regulated, however, by the price of gold. "If the price of gold goes up or
down, the price of the handles shall be advanced or reduced
accordingly." If gold goes up in price, does the price of the
goods go up, or do they go down? Gold is here made the
standard of value, although it was not, at the time this contract was made, the ordinary medium of circulation in this
-country.
Instead of saying that gold, the standard, goes up or down, it
would be more accurate to say that the depreciation of the
paper in circulation is greater or less.
The court below held that if gold should go up in price, the
price of the goods should be increased; if it should go down in

AMES V. QUIMBY.

[Sup. Ct.

price, that of the goods should be diminished. In this we
agree; and, as the important question does not here arise, we
dismiss this branch of the case.
The contract has this further provision: " No advance or
reduction of the price of gold of twenty-five per cent shall
change the price of handles, unless it shall remain at the advanced or reduced rate sufficiently long to affect the general
price of merchandise."
The price of gold having fallen, between the date of the contract and the delivery of the goods, more than twenty-five per
cent, did that fact of itself entitle the defendants to a corresponding reduction in the price of the goods; or were the
defendants also bound to show that the general price of merchandise had been thereby affected? In other words, was the
qualification that the changed rate should continue so long as
to affect the price of general merchandise applicable where the
advance or reduction in the price of gold had been twentyfive per cent only, or where it was twenty-five per cent or
more ?
The court below held that it was applicable to the present
case, where the change in the price of gold had greatly exceeded
twenty-five per cent.
In considering this contract, we are to place ourselves, as far
4s may be, in the position of the parties, with the knowledge
They were
2 ossessed by them of former and present affairs.
the
previous
practical business men. They had seen, during
four years, an enormous advance- extravagant and fictitiousin the price of every thing, and understood it to be dependent
upon the character of the currency.
They intended to provide for the effect of an appreciation or
depreciation of the currency in circulation, called the price of
gold; and we think their evident knowledge of the principles
governing the subject bears strongly upon the precise point
decided by the court below.
While it cannot be denied that the language of the contract
will bear the construction put upon it by the court below, we
are all of the opinion that such construction is not in accordance with the intention of the parties.
It will better bear another interpretation, which is this: Gold

Oct. 1877.]

AmEs v. QmU rBY.

being at the price of $2.25, and having reference to that fact as
giving their value, the one party agrees to deliver, and the other to
receive, the goods at $1.25 per dozen. This price named should
not, however, be fixed and absolute. If the price of gold shall
change, the price of the goods shall also change. But they do
not propose to embarrass themselves about trifles, and the gold
regulation shall be modified by the extent of the change in its
price. If it varies more than twenty-five per cent, we agree
that that shall be deemed an important change, and shall of
itself work a change in the price of the goods.
If the variation does not exceed twenty-five per cent, it will
not necessarily be important, and we agree that it shall not
affect the price of the goods, unless it continues so long as to
affect the general price of merchandise. If it does so continue,
and does so affect general prices, then that variation shall also
regulate this contract.
The parties saw and knew that great changes in the value of
gold had taken place in former times, and in their times, by
which the purchasing power of the currency in circulation was
greatly affected. They knew also that a slight change produced
but little effect. To make them say, then, that a change of one
hundred or one thousand per cent should not of itself change
the price of the goods to be delivered, but that a change of
twenty-five per cent only should have that effect, is contrary to
all reason. On the other hand, to allow them to say that the
large change in gold should of itself change the price of the
goods, but that a change of twenty-five per cent, or under,
should not affect the price of the goods, unless it was so long
continued as to affect the general price of merchandise, is in
harmony with the whole transaction.
Ib is not necessary to pursue the illustrations which have
been or may be given of the effect of the different readings of
the contract. We are satisfied that there was error in its construction by the Circuit Court, and that the case must be remanded for a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

