Oct. 1877.]

271.,

ToWNSHIP OF RocK CREEK V. STRONG.

TOWNSHIP OF RocK CREEK V. STRONG.

L The act of the legislature of Kansas, entitled "An Act to authorize countiets
incorporated cities, and municipal townships to issue bonds for the purpose
of building bridges, aiding in the construction of railroads, water-power, or
other works of internal improvement, and providinz for the rcgistration of
such bonds, and the repealing of all laws in conflict therewith," approved
Blarch 2, 1872 (c. 68, Laws of Kansas, 1872, p. 110), authorizes a township
to issue its bonds to aid in constructing within its limits the depots and sidotracks of an existing railroad.
2. The provisions of that act, that the bonds shall be payable in not less than five,
nor more than thirty years from the date thereof, with interest not to ex( eed,
ten per cent per annum, all in the discretion of the officers issuing the same,
are directory, and not of the essence of the power to issue.
Certain municipal bonds, dated Sept. 10, 1872, and payable thirty years from
Oct. 15, 1872, with interest thereon at the rate of seven per cent per annum,
payable semi-annually on the fifteenth days of April and October of eachyear, were registered by the auditor of the State Oct. 17, 1872. Held, that
their legal effect is precisely what it would have been had the date inserted
been Oct. 15 instead of Sept. 10, 1872.
4. The action of the persons or the tribunal authorized by law to determine the
result of an election held for the purpose of ascertaining whether a municipal township shall issue its bonds in aid of an object authnrized by law is
conclusive, and a bona fide purchaser of the bonds is under no obligation to
look beyond it.
5. A municipal bond, on the back of which is indorsed the certificate of the"
auditor of the State that it has been dily registered in his office according
to law, is not invalid because he failed to nmake in his office an entry of lus
action.

a

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
This was an action by Strong, against the township of Rock
Creek, Jefferson County, Kansas, upon interest coupons attached
to bonds issued by it to aid in constructing within its limits
the depots and side-tracks of the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa

F6 Railroad. The bonds refer to the act of the legislature
under which they were issued, and are of tenor following: -

"$1,000.]
"ROCK

UNFITED STATES OF AMERICA.
CREEK TowNsHIP RAILROAD

AND

[No.-

o

DEPOT Bo.N.Ds.

"State of Kansas, County of Jeftrson.
"Thirty years front the fifteenth day of October. 1872, the towns hip of Rock Creek, in the counly of Jeflrson and State of Kansas,

TOWNsHIP OF ROCK CREEK v. STRONG.

[Sup. -t.

for value received, promises to pay to the Atchison, Topeka, and
Santa F6 Railroad Company, or bearer, the sum of -$1,000, in lawful
money of the United States, with interest from the said fifteenth
day of October, 1872, at the rate of seven (7) per cent per annum,
payable semi-annually on the fifteenth days of April and October
of each year, upon the presentation and surrender, as they severally
become due, of the proper coupons therefor hereto attached, both
principal and interest payable at the Fourth National Bank in the
city of New York, and State of New York.
"This bond is one of a series, amounting to the sum of $20,000,
made and issued to the said Atchison, Topeka, and Santa Fd Railroad
Company in payment of a subscription and donation to the said
company in aid of the construction of its railroad depots and sidetracks, in said township, under and in pursuance of the provisions
of an act of the legislature of the State of Kansas, entitled 'An Act
to authorize counties, incorporated cities, and municipal townships
to issue bonds for the purpose of building bridges, aiding in the
construction of railroads, water-power, or other works of internal
improvement, and providing for the registration of such bonds, the
registration of other bonds, and the repealing of all laws in conflict
therewith,' approved March 2, 1872; and the faith of the said to wn.
ship is hereby pledged for the redemption and payment of said
bonds and the interest coupons thereto attached.
"In testimony whereof, the township trustee and clerk of said
Rock Creek township have hereunto set their hands as such trustee
and clerk, as by law it is provided shall be done, this tenth day of

September,

A.D.

"Attest:

1872.

" N. A. LAFON, Trustee.

ALBERT OWEN, Clerk."

Indorsed on the back thereof as follows :
"STATE

OF KANSAS,

-

SS.

" I, auditor of the State of Kansas, do hereby certify that this
bond has been regularly and legally issued, and the signatures
thereto are genuine, and that the same has been duly registered in
my office according to law.
"In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed
my seal of office, at the city of Topeka, this seventeenth day of

October,
[I,. S.]

A.D.

1872.
",A. THOMAN, Auditor."

The coupons are in the usual form.
The plaintiff having at the trial introduced evidence tending

Oct. 1877.]

TOWNSHIP OF ROCK CREEK V. STRONG.

2T3

to show that he was an innocent purchaser for value of the
coupons before maturity, the defendant offered evidence tending
to show,1. 'I'hat the only election held in the township upon any
proposition of issuing the bonds was one held Aug. 27, 1872,
pursuant to the notice of the trustee and clerk of the township,
dated July 30, of that year, for the purpose of submitting to
the qualified voters of the township "the question of aiding in
the construction of two permanent depots, with side-tracks to
accoummodate the same, on the line of the Atchison, Topeka,
and Santa F6 Railroad, in said township, by a donation to the
Atchison, Topeka, and Santa F6 Railroad Company of the
bonds of said township, in the sum of 820,000, to be issued in
sums of $1,000 each, payable in thirty years from the date of
issue, payable in the city of New York, and bearing interest at
the rate of seven per cent per annum, payable semi-annually
in the city of New York, signed by the trustee of said township
and attested by the township clerk, and upon the following
conditions, to wit: Said bonds to be issued as aforesaid, and delivered to the said company whenever said company shall have
constructed and completed said depots and said side-tracks in
said township, the same to be located as follows, to wit: one
depot at some point within one-half of one mile of the point
where said company's railroad intersects the line between the
north-east quarter of the south-east quarter of section twenty,
township nine, in range seventeen east; and the other depot at
a point vithin one-half of one mile of the point where said
company's railroad intersects the west boundary line of section
seven, in township ten, range "seventeen east, and each to be
accommodated with side-tracks suitable and of sufficient length
for the accommodation of the business to be done at said depots,
the said company to erect said depots and each of them, and to
construct the said side-tracks of the same, so that the same
shall be ready for use, and the reception of business thereat, on
or before the fifteenth day of October, A.D. 1372; otherwise,
the said company to forfeit all claims to the said bonds."
That the total number of votes cast by qualified electors of said
township was one hundred and two, of which fifty-one were for,
and fifty-one were against, the said proposition; and that one
VOL. Vw.

18

TOWNSHIP OF ROCK CREEK v. STRONG.

[Sup. Ct.

Rice, who was not a qualified elector of said township, cast his
vote in favor of said proposition.
2. That the board of county commissioners of said county
never canvassed the returns of said election, and never determined nor declared the result of any election in said township
to be in favor of issuing any of the bonds of said township; but
upon the records of the county the following entry, certified in
due form, was made prior to the issue of the bonds: "FRIDLY, Aug. 30, 1872. At this, a called meeting of the board,
there were present H. W. Wellman and P. i1. Gilbert.
"The board proceeded to canvass the vote of Rock Creek township, on the proposition to donate the bonds of said township to the
Atchison, Topeka, and Santa F6 Railroad Company, and determine
the following as a result of said election :-

"For the issuing of said bonds.

.
Against the issuing of said bonds
"Total ..

.........

.

...

.

52 votes.
51
103

,,

"Adjournment: Upon motion, it was ordered that the board
adjourn, to meet Monday, Sept. 2, 1872."
3. That there is not now, and never has been, in the office
of the auditor of the State of Kansas, any registration of any
such bonds of said township; but his certifieate of registration
was placed on them.
4. That the depots and side-tracks mentioned in said bonds
were located and erected upon and appurtenant to a railroad
built and in operation through said township prior to said
election.
Whereupon the following questions arose, upon which the
judges were divided in opinion: 1. Does the act of the legislature of the State of Kansas,
referred to in said bonds, authorize the issue of the bonds of a
township to aid in the construction of depots and side-tracks, as
recited in the bonds in suit?
2. Are the bonds mentioned in plaintiff's petition void, for
the reason that they are made payable thirty years and thirtyfive days from their date of execution therein written, but only
drawing interest for the last thirty years of said time?

Oct. 1877.]

TOWNSHIP OF ROCK CREEK V. STRONG.

275

3. Is the defendant estopped by the recitals in said bonds
from introducing the testimony as above stated?
4. On the foregoing facts, is the plaintiff entitled to recover?
, Judgment having been entered in favor of the plaintiff, in
accordance with the opinion of the presiding judge, the defendant sued out this writ of error.
31r. George 1?. Peck for the plaintiff in error.
There being no express authority conferred by the act of
March 2, 1872, for a municipal township in Kansas to issue its
bonds in aid of the construction of depots and side-tracks for
a railroad which was then built, any doubt as to the existence
of the power supposed to be conferred must be resolved
against it. Minturn v. Larue, 23 How. 435; Thompson v. Lee
County, 3 Wall. 327; Thomas v. City of Richmond, 12 id. 349.
The legislature did not intend to confer such authority, as it
is the legal duty of a railroad corporation to furnish the necessary depots and side-tracks for the accommodation of the public.
St. Joseph & Denver City Railroad Co. v. Ryan, 11 Kan. 602;
Pacific Railway Co. v. Seeley, 45 Mo. 212.
The objects in aid of which the bonds were issued cannot be
claimed to be works of internal improvement,witbin the meaning
of that act. Township of Burlingtonv. Beasley, 94 U. S. 310.
The bonds having been issued for a period of time in excess
of that fixed by law, they are void on their face. Commission
ers of Marion County v. Clark, 94 U. S. 278. The presumptioA
is that they were delivered on the day of their date. 1 Pars.
Bills and Notes, 42; Edwards, Bills, 144; Anderson v.
Weston, 6 Bing. N. 0. 296.
The plaintiff in error was not estopped by the recitals in the
bonds from showing that the conditions precedent to their issue
had not been complied with, because the right to determine
those questions was vested in an entirely different tribunal from
the one authorized to issue the bonds. Town of Coloma v.
Eaves, 92 U. S. 484.
The record shows that the bonds were never registered as
required by the statute. They were, therefore, not negotiable.
Negotiability could be imparted to them only by the fact of
registration, not by the mere certificate of the auditor.

TOWNSHIP OF ROCK CREEK V. STRONG.

[SUp. '.t.

Mr. H. Strong, for the defendant in error, in support of the
judgment below, cited Leavenworth v. Miller, 7 Kan. 536;
Knox County v. Aspinwall, 21 low. 544; Moran v. Miami
County, 2 Black, 732; Illercer County v. Hackett, 1 Wall. 83;
Supervisor v. Schenck, 5 id. 784; Town of Coloma v. Eaves,
92 U. S. 484; Town of Venice v. Murdock, id. 494; Converse
v. Fort Scott, id. 503; Marcey v. Town f Oswego, id. 6:;7;
Humboldt Township v. Long, id. 642; Leavenworth (ounty V.
Barnes, 94 id. 70; -Douglass County v. Bolles, id. 104; 'Jhnson County v. January, id. 202; Township of Burlington v.
Beasley, id. 310; County of Moulton v. Rockingham Bank,
id. 631; Town of East Lincoln v. Davenport, id. 801.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The act of the Kansas legislature approved March 2, 1872,
expressly authorized the issue of township bonds "to aid in the
construction of railroads or water-power, by donation thereto,
or the taking of stock therein, or for other works of internal
improvement." Like all expressions of legislative will, this
provision of the act must receive a reasonable construction,
and we cannot doubt that in the grant of power to aid in the
construction of railroads or other works of internal improvement is included authority to assist in the construction of depots
and side-tracks of a railroad. Such constructions are constituents, - essential parts of every railroad, without which it would
be incomplete and incapable of serving the uses for which it
is intended. The cost of building them is always, and properly, charged to construction account, and not to repairs or
expenses of operation ; and a mortgage of a railroad, without
further description than such as is necessary to identify it,
covers its side-tracks and depots.
We do not see any force in the argument pressed upon us by
the plaintiff in error, that, because it was the duty of the railroad company to furnish suitable side-tracks and depots, the act
of 1872 cannot be construed as authorizing the issue of township
bonds to aid in building such structures. It was equally the
duty of the company to build the main line, and it is not questioned that tile township was empowered to aid in doing that
work. Nor is there any thing in the proviso to the act. that
AIR. JUSTICE STRONG

Oct. 1877.]

TowNsHIP OF ROCK CREEK V. STRONG.

277

tends in the least degree to the conclusion that the legislature
did not mean to authorize aid to the building of depots.
The first question certified to us was, therefore, correctly
answered by the Circuit Court in the affirmative, and the first
assignment of error is overruled.
Tie second question certified is, "Are the bonds mentioned
in the plaintiff's petition void, for the reason that they are made
payable thirty years and thirty-five days from their date of
execution therein written, but only drawing interest for the last
thirty years of said time?"
The second section of the act authorizing their issue enacted
that the bonds should be payable in not less than five nor more
than thirty years from the date thereof, with interest not to
exceed ten per cent per annum, all in the discretion of the
officers issuing the same. These provisions were obviously
directory, and not of the essence of the power. The bonds
issued were dated Sept. 10, 1872, made payable thirty years
from the fifteenth day of October, 1872, with interest thereon
from that time at the rate of seven per cent. When they were
delivered to the railroad company does not appear, though
they were not registered by the auditor of the State until Oct.
17,1872. They were thus practically thirty-year bonds, bearing
a less rate of interest than the rate authorized. Their legal
effect is precisely what it would have been had the date inserted
been Oct. 15, instead of Sept. 10,-1872. Substantially, therefore, the legislative direction was followed. The doctrine of
Commissioners of Mliarion County v. Clark (94 U. S. 278) is
applicable to the present case.
The third assignment of error is that the court erred in not
holding the township was not estopped by the recitals in the
bonds from introducing the testimony offered. The bonds were
executed by the township trustee, and attested by the township
clerk. These were the officers designated by the statute to
execute such bonds. The recitals were that the bonds were
made and issued in pursuance of the provisions of the act of
the legislature of March 2, 1872. But whether the recitals
were an estoppel against showing what the defendant proposed
to show, or whether they were not, is quite immaterial in this
case. The proof offered was. that, in the records of the county

TOwNSHIP OF ROCK CREEK V. STRONG.

[Sup. Ct.

commissioners of the county of which Rock Creek township i6
a part, it appeared the board had canvassed the vote at the
election held to determine whether the township -hould issue
the bonds, and had determined the result to be, for the issue,
fifty-two votes, against the issue, fifty-one votes, making one
hundred and three votes in all cast; but that in fact no canvass
was made, and that only one hundred and two votes were cast,
fifty-one of which only were in favor of issuing the bonds, and
that one person who voted in favor was not a qualified elector.
Now, if the town clerk and treasurer were not the persons
authorized by law to determine the result of the election, the
board of county commissioners were, and their action, according
to all our rulings, was conclusive. A bona fide purchaser of the
bonds was under no obligation to look beyond it. It was not
his duty to canvass the vote, much less to ascertain whether
those who had voted were qualified electors. The law cast the
duty upon the board, and in such a case the action of the board
must be found in their records. If it be admitted that the
purchaser of the bonds was under obligation to inquire whether
an election had been held, and what its result was, the only place
to which he could resort for the information sought was the
records of the board; and, had he sought there, he would have
found that the township clerk and treasurer could rightfully
issue the bonds. It follows that. the evidence offered by the
defendant was quite immaterial, or, if not, that it was destructive
to his defence.
The defendant further offered to show that no registration of
the bonds exists, or ever has been in the office of the auditor
of the State, though the auditor's certificate of registration does
appear upon the bonds. We cannot think this evidence, if
admitted, could in any degree avail the defendant.
The certificate of that officer indorsed on the bonds was all
that was required for the holder of them. If the State auditor
failed to make in his office an entry of his action, we do not
perceive how his failure in this respect can invalidate bonds
upon which he has certified a registration.
Judgment affirmed.

