INSURANCE Co. v. NORTON.

[Sup. Ct.

vice was by a specific addition to his pay in the line. At that
time, therefore, it might well be said that the addition was pay
for the staff appointment. But now there is no compensation
for staff service separate from that of rank; and, in our opinion,
itcannot be said that, within the meaning of the regulation, a
quartermaster receives pay for his staff appointment. He gets
more pay as lieutenant by reason of his transfer to a new service, but nothing separate for his appointment. This being
the case,*the additional compensation which the law gives an
acting assistant-commissary is not, in the case of a quartermaster performing that service, pay for a second staff appointment.
Judgment affirmed.

INSURANCE

COmPANY v. NORTON.

1. An insurance company may waive any condition of a policy inserted therein
for its benefit.
2. As the company may at any time, at its option, give authority to its agents to
make agreements, or to waive forfeitures, it is not bound to act upon the
declaration in its policy that they have no such authority.
3. Whether it has or has not exercised that option is a fact provable by either
written evidence or by parol.
4. As denoting the power given by an insurance company to a local agent, evidence is admissible as to its practice in allowing him to extend the time for
the payment of premiums and premium notes; and the jury, upon such
evidence, may find whether he was authorized to make such an extension,
and, if so, whether it was in fact made in the case on trial.
6, In this case, the court holds that the fact that the premium note was already
past due when the agreement to extend it was made is not sufficient to prevent that agreement from operating as a waiver of the forfeiture.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This action was brought by Phoebe A. Norton on a policy
of insurance, issued by the Knickerbocker Life Insurance Company of New York, on the life of Jesse 0. Norton, for the
benefit of his wife and children. The original policy was
dated April 20, 1867; and, being partly destroyed by fire,
was reissued in April, 1874. The premium was $385, payable
annually on the twentieth day of April in each year; and the

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v. NORTON.

policy, amongst other things, contained the following condition:"Second, If the said premium shall not be paid on or before
twelve o'clock, noon, on the day.or days above mentioned for the
payment thereof, at the office of the company in the city of New
York (unless otherwise expressly agreed in writing), or to agents
when they produce receipts signed by the president or secretary,
or if the principal of or interest upon any note or other obligation
given for the premium upon said policy shall not be paid at the
time the same shall become due and payable, then, and in
every such case, the company shall not be liable to pay the sum
assured, or any part thereof; and said policy shall cease and be null
and void, without notice to any party or parties interested herein,
except that the stipulation for a new policy, as hereinbefore provided, shall remain in force.
"Third, In case a loan of or credit for a portion of said premium
shall be made on this policy, said policy shall be subject to all of
the terms and conditions expressed in the acknowledgment or obligation given for such loan or credit, and to the payment of interest
thereon in advance; and said loan or credit shall be a just counterclaim against any amount which shall become due and payable on
the policy, and shall be deducted therefrom."
By an indorsement on the policy, it was declared that
"agents of the company are not authorized to make, alter, or
abrogate contracts, or waive forfeitures."
The insured died on the 3d of August, 1875; and the company
refused to pay the insurance, on the ground that the policy was.
forfeited by reason of the non-payment of certain notes given
for the last premium, which was due April 20, 1875. It was
conceded that all the other premiums had been paid.
The declaration, besides a special count on the policy, contained the ordinary money counts. The defendant pleaded the
general issue, and, specially, that the premium notes were not
paid at maturity, and that the policy thereby became forfeited.
The plaintiff replied, first, that the agent of the defendant at
Chicago, regularly authorized by the defendant so to do, extended the time of payment of the first note, which becamu
due on the 20th of June, to the 20th of July, when she tendered the amount thereof to the agent, who refused to receive

INSURANCE

Co. v. NORTON.

[Sup. Ct.

the same; and that she also tendered the amount of the second
note at its maturity, which was likewise refused: secondly,
that, after the maturity of the first note, the agent of the defendant, regularly authorized so to do, waived all advantages
the company might have claimed because of its non-payment
at maturity, and extended the time of payment, as before
stated, with an averment of tender and refusal. The defendant, by way of rejoinder, denied that it had extended the time
of payment, or that it had waived any advantages, as alleged.
This was the issue at the trial.
It appeared on the trial that the premium in question was
settled by the payment of 850 in cash, and the balance in two
promissory notes given by Jesse 0. Norton to the insurance
company, payable respectively in two and three months, and
maturing, one on the 20th of June, the other on the 20th of
July, 1875. Each note contained a clause, declaring that if it
were not paid at maturity the policy would be void, - this
being the usual form of premium notes.
On the issue as to extension of time on the notes, and the
authority of the agent to grant it, the plaintiff produced three
witnesses: Randall, agent of the company down to March, 1874;
Frary, his successor, who was agent at the time in question;
and Martin Norton, son of the insured, who acted in behalf of
his father in reference to the alleged extension, and to the
tender of payment.
The testimony of these witnesses tended to show that formerly the company had allowed their agent to extend time on
premium notes for a period of ninety days; that this indulgence was afterwards reduced to sixty days, and then to thirty:
and that, at the period in question, the agent was required, as a
general thing, to return the notes in his hands if not paid by the
15th of the month following that in which they became due.
As to what took place with reference to the notes in question, there is some conflict in testimony between Martin Norton
and the agent, Frary. The former testified, in substance, that
he called on the agent, in behalf of his father, in June, 1875, a
few days after the first note became due, and told him that his
father wished it extended for thirty days; to which the agent
agreed,-his answer being, "All right." That he called again

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

NORTON.

on or about the 8th of July, to request an extension of the
other note, which would become due on the 20th of that month,
and a further extension of the first note to the 10th of August.
That the agent said he would hiave to write to the company
about this. That, on the lStb, he called again, and told the
agent that his father had concluded to pay both notes; and the
agent gave him the figures, showing what was due on them.
That he called again on the 15th, prepared to pay the notes,
when he was informed by the agent that he could not receive
the money, having received orders from the company to return
all the papers to New York, and he had done so. That he
then made a legal tender of the amount due on the first note,
which was refused. Frary testified that he had no recollection
of the first interview, or of agreeing to extend the first note.
As to the rest, they did not materially differ.
In addition to the testimony relating to the general practice
of the agents in granting extensions of time for the payment of
premium notes, evidence was given tending to show that Norton, the insured, had usually received more or less indulgence
of that kind.
The counsel for the defendant moved to strike out the testimony touching the usages of the company as to non-payment
of prior premium notes by Norton, and prior indulgence thereon
to him, as incompetent, and in conflict with the terms of the
policy, and as showing no authority in Frary to give the alleged extension; which was without consideration, if made, and
after the forfeiture had occurred.
The counsel for the defendant also moved to strike out that
portion of Martin Norton's testimony relative to an agreement
for an extension of the premium notes, such agreement being
without authority on the part of the agent, &c. The court
overruled the latter motion; and, as to the first, directed the
jury to disregard so much of Randall's testimony as tended to
show the conduct of the defendant and plaintiff in regard to
former payments; but allowed to stand so much of Randall's
and Frary's testimony as tended to show the powers of the
agents in reference to giving extensions on premiums or prem
ium notes. This ruling was excepted to.
In charging the jury, the court left it to them to say, from

INSURANCE Co. v. NORTON.

[Sup. Ct.

the eyidence, whether the agent of the defendant had power to
waive a strict compliance with the terms of the agreen-ent as
to the time of paying the notes given for the premium; and, if
he had such power, whether such a waiver was in fact made:
if it was, and if the insured offered to pay the notes within the
time to which they were extended, and the company refused
to receive payment, that then the plaintiff was entitled to recover. The jury were further instructed that the power vested
in Randall, the previous agent, was only pertinent as it tended
to throw light on the powers vested in his successor, Frary.
The defendant's counsel excepted to the charge, and submitted
several instructions, the purport of them being, in substance,
that, in view of the express provisions of the policy, the evidence was utterly irrelevant and incompetent to show any
authority in the agent to grant any indulgence as to the time
of paying the notes, and to waive the forfeiture incurred by
their non-payment at maturity; or to show that any valid and
legal extension was, in fact, granted, or that the forfeiture of
the policy was waived.
These instructions were refused. There was a judgment for
the plaintiff, whereupon the company sued out this writ of error.
Xr. H. U. iller and .211r. Thomas G. Frost for the plaintiff
inerror.
The parties are bound by the policy, and the court must enforce it according to its tenor. Pitt v. Berkshire Life Insurance
Co., 100 Mass. 500; Roehner v. IKnickerbocker Life Insurance Co.,
4 Daly (N. Y.), 412; Robert v. New England Life Insurance
Co., 1 Disney (Ohio), 355; Fifty Associates v. Houland,5 Cush.
(Mass.) 214; Baker v. Union MIutual Life Insurance Co., 43 N. Y.
283 ; Howell v. Knickerbocker Life Insurance Co.. 3 Robt. (N. Y.)
232; Catoir v. American Life Insurance and Trust Co., 33
N. J. L. 487; Wall v. Home Insurance Co., 36 N. Y. 157; Neu
York Life Insurance Co. v. Statham et al., 93 U. S. 24; Beadle
v. Chsnango County Mutual Insurance Co., 3 Hill (N. Y.), 161;
Shaw v. Berkshire Life Insurance Co., 103 Mass. 254; Bradley
v. Potomac Fire Insurance Co., 32 Md. 108; Union Mvutual Life
nsurance Co. v. McMillen, 24 Ohio St. 67 ; Mutual Benefit Life
Insurance Co. v. Ruse, 8 Ga. 534; Sullivan v. Cotton States
Life Insurance Co., 43 id. 423-

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

NORTON.

The time of payment in such an instrument is material, and
of the essence of the contract, and a failure to pay involves an
absolute forfeiture, which the agent had no authority to waive,
nor could he grant an extension of time for the payment of the
premium note. Security Insurance Co. v. Tay, 22 Mich. 467.
When such extension was applied for, the forfeiture of the
policy had been already incurred, and the pretended agreement
for an extension was void, for want of consideration.
Mr. S. P. MConnell for the defendant in error.
Although a policy declares that agents have no power to
waive a forfeiture or modify the contract of insurance, the
company issuing it may nevertheless, by grant, authorize them
to do either, or, by its conduct, estop itself from denying that
such grant has been made. Etna Insurance Co. v. Maguire et
al., 51 Ill. 342; Perkins v. Washington Insurance Co., 4 Cow.
(N. Y.) 645; Lightbody v. American Life Insurance Co., 23
Tend. (N. Y.) 18; McEwen v. Montgomery County Insurance
Co., 5 Hill (N. Y.), 101; Eclectic Life Insurance Co. v. Pahrenkrug, 68 Ill. 463; Heenan v. Missouri State Mutual Insurance
Co., 12 Iowa, 126.
The extent of the agent's authority is a question for the jury.
Sheldon v. Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co., 25 Conn.
207;"1ough v. City -FireInsurance Co., 29 id. 10; Farmers'
Mutual Insurance Co. v. Taylor, 73 Pa. St. 342.
A new consideration is not necessary to validate either the
waiver of a forfeiture or an extension of time for the payment
.of the premium, or of the notes given therefor. Leslie v. Knickerbocker Life Insurance Co., 2 Hun (N. Y.), 616 ; Viele v. Germania Insurance Co., 26 Iowa, 9.
A party cannot insist upon a condition piecedent, the breach
of which he caused. Young v. Hunter, 6 N. Y. 203.
AIR. JUSTICE BRADLEY,

after stating the case, delivered the

,opinion of the court.
The material question in this case is, whether, in view of the
,express provisions of the policy, the evidence introduced by the
assured was relevant and competent to show that the company
had authorized its agent to grant indulgence as to the time of
paying the premium notes, and waive the forfeiture incurred by

INSURANCE

Co. v.

NORTON

(Sup. Cr.

their non-payment at maturity; or to show that any valid extension had, in fact, been granted, or the forfeiture of the policy
waived.
The written agreement of the parties, as embodied in the
policy and the indorsement thereon, as well as in the notes and
the receipt given therefor, was undoubtedly to the express purport that a failure to pay the notes at maturity would incur a
forfeiture of the policy. It also contained an express declaration that the agents of the company were not authorized to
make, alter, or abrogate contracts or waive forfeitures. And
these terms, had the company so chosen, it could have insisted
on. But a party always has the option to waive a condition or
stipulation made in his own favor. The company was not
bound to insist upon a forfeiture, though incurred, but might
waive it. It was not bound to act upon the declaration that its
agents had no power to make agreements or waive forfeitures;
but might, at any time, at its option, give them such power.
The declaration was only tantamount to a notice to the assured,
which the company could waive and disregard at pleasure. In
either case, both with regard to the forfeiture and to the powers
of its agent, a waiver of the stipulation or notice would not be
repugnant to the written agreement, because it would only be
the exercise of an option which the agreement left in it. 'And
whether it did exercise such option or not was a fact provable
by parol evidence, as well as by writing, for the obvious reason
that it could be done without writing.
That it did authorize its agents to take notes, instead of
money, for premiums, is perfectly evident, from its constant practice of receiving such notes when taken by them. That it authorized them to grant indulgence on these notes, if the evidence is
to be believed, is also apparent from like practice. It acquiesced
in and ratified their acts in this behalf. For a long period, it
allowed them to give an indulgence of ninety days; after that,
of sixty; then of thirty days. It is in vain to contend that it
gave them no authority to do this, when it constantly allowed
them to exercise such authority, and alvays ratified their acts,
notwithstanding the language of the written instruments.
We think, therefore, that there was no error committed by
the court below in admitting evidence as to the practice of the

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

NORTON.

company in allowing its agents to extend the time for payment
of premiums and of notes given for premiums, as indicative of
the power given to those agents; nor any error in submitting it
to the jury, upon such evidence, to find whether the defendant
had or had not authorized its agent to make such extensions;
nor in submitting it to them to say whether, if such authority
had been given, an extension was made in this case.
Much stress, however, is laid on the fact that the extension
claimed to have been given in this case was not given, or applied
for, until after the first note became due and the forfeiture had
been actually incurred. But we do not deem this to be material
The evidence does not show that any distinction was made in
granting extensions before or after the maturity of the notes.
The material question is, whether the forfeiture was waived;
and we see no reason why this may not be done as well by an
agreement made for extending the note after its maturity, as by
one made before. In either case, the legal effect of the indulgence
is this: the company say to the insured, Pay your note by such
a time, and your policy shall not be forfeited. If the insured
agrees to do this, and does it, or tenders himself ready to do it,
the forfeiture ought not to be exacted. In both cases, the parties mutually act upon the hypothesis of the continued existence
of the policy. It is true, if the agreement be made before the
note matures and before the forfeiture is incurred, it would be
a fraud upon the assured to attempt to enforce the forfeiture,
when, relying on the agreement, he permits the original day of
payment to pass. On the other hand, if the agreement be made
after the note matures, such agreement is itself a recognition, on
the company's part, of the continued existence of the policy,
and, consequently, of its election to waive the forfeiture. It is
conceded that the acceptance of payment has this effect; and
we do not see why an agreement to accept, and a tender of
payment according to the agreement, should not have the same
effect. Both are acts equally demonstrative of the election of
the company to waive the forfeiture of the policy. Grant that
the promise to extend the note is without consideration, and not
binding on the company, - which is perhaps true as well when
the promise is made before maturity as when it is made afterwards, -still it does not take from the company's act the
vo. v.

16

INSURANCE

Co. v.

NORTON.

[Sup. Ot.

legitimate effects of such act upon the forfeiture of the
policy. Perhaps the note might be sued on in disregard of
the extension; but if it could be, that would not annihilate
the fact that the company elected to waive the forfeiture by
entering into the transaction. If it should repudiate its agreement, it could not repudiate the waiver of the forfeiture, without
at least giving to the assured reasonable notice to pay the
money.
Forfeitures are not favored in the law. They are often the
means of great oppression and injustice. And, where adequate
compensation can be made, the law in many cases, and equity
in all cases, discharges the forfeiture, upon such compensation
being made. It is true, we held in Statham's Case (93 U. S. 24),
that, in life insurance, time of payment is material, and cannot
be extended by the courts against the assent of the company.
But where such assent is given, the courts should be liberal in
construing the transaction in favor of avoiding a forfeiture.
The case of leases is not without analogy to the present. It
is familiar law, that, when a lease has become forfeited, any act
of the landlord indicating a recognition of its continuance, such
as distraining for rent, or accepting rent which accrued after the
forfeiture, is deemed a waiver of the condition.
In -Doe v. Lleux (4 Barn. & Cress. 606) there was a general
covenant to repair, and a special covenant to make specific repairs after three months' notice; and a condition of forfeiture
for non-performance of covenants. The landlord gave notice to
the tenant to make certain specific repairs within three months.
This was held a waiver of the forfeiture already incurred under
the general covenant. Justice Bailey said: "The landlord, in
this case, had an option to proceed on either covenant; and, after
giving notice to repair within three months, he might have
brought an action against the defendant upon the former
covenant, for not keeping the premises in repair. But that is
very different from insisting upon the forfeiture. . . I think
that the notice amounted to a declaration that he would be
satisfied if the premises were repaired within three months, and
that he thereby precluded himself from bringing an ejectment
before the expiration of that period."
In -Doe v. Birch (1 Mee. & W. 402), there was a covenant on

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v. NORTo1.

the part of the tenant to make certain improvements on the
premises within three months, or that the lease should be void.
He failed to make the improvements in the manner stipulated;
and, after the expiration of the three months, the landlord's sonj
on his father's behalf, made a demand of a quarter's rent. But,
it not appeaging that the landlord knew of the tenant's failure
-with regard to the improvements, it was held that the son had
not sufficient authority to waive the forfeiture. Otherwise, it
seems, that the demand of the rent would have amounted to a
waiver. Baron Parke referred to @reen's Case (1 Croke, 3),
where calling thb party a tenant, in a receipt for bygone rent,
was held to be sufficient evidence of a waiver, though the acceptance of that rent was not such. And he adds: "If it had been
proved that the father had notice of the alterations, and lie had
still allowed the son to receive the rent, the forfeiture might
have been waived. But that was not proved; and the question of waiver does not, therefore, distinctly arise in the case.
If it had, the authorities cited show that this was a lease voidable at the election of the landlord. Then, I think that an
absolute, unqualified demand of rent, by a person having sufficient authority, would have amounted to a waiver of the forfeiture, and it would have been like the case I cited from Croke's
Reports."
In Ward v. Day (4 Best & Smith, 335), after a forfeiture of a
license to gather minerals off of a manor had been incurred, the
landlord entered into negotiations with the licensee and his son,
to grant to the latter a renewal of the license when it should
-expire; and terms were agreed on, which the landlord afterwards
refused to carry out. It was held, that, by entering into these
negotiations, he waived the forfeiture of the original license.
The negotiations assumed that the original license was to continue to its termination. The exaction of the forfeiture was in
-the landlord's election; and he evinced his election not to enforce it by entering into the negotiations. Justice Blackburn
says: "M
Most of the cases in which the doctrine of election has
been discussed have been cases of landlord and tenant under a
regular lease, in which has been reserved a right of re-entry for
.a forfeiture; that is,an option to determine the lease for a
forfeiture: but this doctrine is not, as Mr. Russell seems to

INSURANCE

Co. v. NORTON.

[Sap. Ut.

think, confined to such cases. So far from that being so, the
doctrine is but a branch of the general law, that, where a man
has an election or option to enter into an estate vested in
another, or to deprive another of some existing right, before he
acts he must elect, once for all, whether he will do the act or
not. He is allowed time to make up his mind; but when once
he has determined that he will not consider the estate or lease,
whichever it may be, void, he has not any further option to
change his mind." And then the learned judge cites authorities, going back to the Year Books, to show that a determination of a man's election in such cases may be made by express
words, or by act; and that if, by word or by act, he determines
that the lease shall continue in existence, and communicates
that determination to the other party, he has elected that the
other shall go on as tenant.
These cases show the readiness with which courts seize hold
of any circumstances that indicate an election or intent to waive
a forfeiture. We think that the present case is within the reason
of these authorities; and that the objection, that the note was
already past due when the agreement to extend it was made,
is not sufficient to prevent said agreement from operating as a
waiver of the forfeiture.
Several minor points were raised by the defendant; but they
are all either substantially embraced in the main points already
considered, or are not of sufficient force to require special discussion.
We find no error in the record, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court is
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE SWAYNE, MR.JUSTICE FIELD, and MR.JUSTICE STRONG dissented.

I dissent from the judgment given
in this case. The insurance effected by the policy became forfeited by the non-payment ad diem of the premium note. The
policy then ceased to be a binding contract. It was so expressly
stipulated in the instrument. Admitting that the company
could afterwards elect to treat the policy as still in force, or, in
other words, could waive the forfeiture, the local agent could
MR. JUSTICE STRONG.

Oct. 1877.]

McLEAN

v.

FLEMING.

not, unless he was so authorized by his principals. The policy
declared that agents should not have authority to make such
waivers. And there is no evidence in this case that the company gave to the agent parol authority to waive a forfeiture
after it had occurred. They had ratified his acts extending the
time of payment of premium notes, when the extension was
made before the notes fell due. But no practice of the company
sanctioned any act of its agent done after a policy had expired,
by which new life was given to a dead contract.

McLEA1

v.

FLE=nG.

1. Where a manufacturer has habitually stamped his goods with a particular
mark or brand, a court of equity will restrain another party from adopting
it for the same kind of goods.
2. Positive proof of fraudulent intent on the part of the infringer is not required
where the infringement is clearly shown.
8. Although no precise rule, applicable to all cases, can be laid down as to the
degree of resemblance necessary to constitute an infringement of a trademark, an injunction will be granted where the imitation is so close, that, by
the form, marks, contents, words, or their special arrangement, or by the
general appearance of the infringing device, purchasers exercising ordinary
caution are likely to be misled into buying the article bearing it for the
genuine one.
4. It is not necessary, to entitle a partyto an injunction, that a specific trade.
mark has been infringed. It is sufficient to satisfy the court that the
respondent intended to represent to the public that his goods were those of
the complainant.
5. In this case, the court holds that the appellant has infringed the trade-mark of
the appellee, but that the latter, by his long-continued acquiescence therein,
and his unreasonable delay in seeking relief, has been guilty of inexcusable laches, and is not entitled to an account for profits. The decree below
is therefore affirmed, so far as it awards an injunction, but reversed as to
damages; and costs in this court are allowed to the appellant.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The bill in this case was filed June 1, 1872, by Cochrane
Fleming, to restrain the alleged infringement of his trade-mark
for liver pills, by James H. McLean.
As early as 1834, Dr. Charles McLane, of Morgantown, Va.,
made and sold liver pills, putting them up in wooden boxes,
APPEAL

