Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. DRISCOLL.

bond of Holden, King, and Ford,on payment to XcPherson
of the sum of $5,000, for which he rzqhtfttlly holds said bond
as security for his services to complainant as her attorney
and counsel. And that MlcPherson have liberty, if he be so
advised, to file a cross-bill for the establishment of his debt
and his lien, a;id for such remedy for its enforcement as
equity can give in the case.
MR. JUSTICE STROING. I concur in the reversal of the decree
of the court below, but I dissent from so much of the opinion as
determines the amount due Messrs. Carlisle and McPherson as
compensation for their professional services, for which the lien
on the bond to Mrs. Cox is asserted. I think that the amount,
as well as the existence of the debt, should be established in
an issue sent to a court of law, especially as no cross-bill was
filed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE. I dissent from the judgment
in this case, and am entirely satisfied with the decree below.

MR. JUSTiCE HUNT and MR. JUSTICE HAnLTA

also dis-

sented.

UNITED STATES v.

Dnmscom.

A. contracted to cut, furnish, and deliver in Washington City, al specified rates,
granite to the United States, at such times as it might require, and to furnish
such number of men as it might deem necessary to the proper prosecution of
the work. The full cost of their labor, increased by fifteen per cent, was also
to be paid to him by the United States. For every day that he was in default
he was to forfeit and pay $100. Held, that there was no privity between the
United States and the men employed by him in the execution of his contract.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The court below rendered judgment pro forma for the claimallt.
The Solicitor-Ceneralfor the United States.
3Ir. Joseph Casey and Hr. Thomas JT.Durant, contra.

UNITED STATES v. DRIscOLL.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNIE

[Sup. 01,

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Court of Claims. The petition of
the appellee alleges that he worked the number of days specified, for the United States, ten hours a day, when he was required
by law to work only eight hours a day; that he was paid at the
rate of ten hours a day; and he claims further compensation for
such number of days as the additional two hours aggregated
will make, computing a day's work at eight hours instead of ten
hours.
This is the basis and extent of the claim. The United Stales,
among other defences, allege that the appellee was never employed by them, nor on their behalf.
The case is fully set forth in the findings of the Court of
Claims. A brief statement of the facts will be sufficient for the
purposes of this opinion.
The United States contracted with Ralph Ordway to furnish,
from certain quarries near Richmond, Va., granite, to be delivered in Washington City. He was to be paid at specified
prices.
They contracted with him, further, "to furnish all the labor,
tools, and materials necessary to cut, dress, and box, at the
quarry or quarries, all the granite, in such manner" as should
be directed. The United States were to pay him "the full cost
of said labor, tools, and materials, and also the insurance on the
granite, increased by fifteen per cent on such cost."
The contract contained this further nkuse "And the party of the second part (Ordway) further agrees tofurnish such number of men as may be deemed necessary for the
proper prosecution of the work by the party of the first part (the
United States) ; and the party of the second part further agrees to
cut as well as furnish and deliver all the granite herein contracted
for, at such times as may be required by the party of the first part,

and in default thereof to forfeit and pay to the United States the
sum of one hundred (100) dollars per diem for each and every day
thereafter, until the final delivery of the same, which sum shall be
deducted from any moneys which may be due him; and if that
amount be not due him, then his bondsmen are to be held liable for
any deficiency, to be recovered of them by suit in the name of the
IUnited States."

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES

v.

DRISCoLL.

The larger the amount of the cost, the larger would be the
amount to be paid Ordway. His interests and those of the
United States were, in this particular, therefore, in direct antagonism. Hence the United States employed and paid a
superintendent and clerk, who were to be present all the time.
The former was to see that every thing was done according to
the contract, and that no frauds were committed on the government. It was also his duty, at the end of every month, to
certify Ordway's accounts for his expenditures during that
time. The clerk was his assistant, and subject to his directions.
The employ6s were engaged and paid as follows: When a man
was set to work, Ordway's foreman gave his name to the clerk
of the superintendent, who put it on the time-book. The foreman put the price opposite the name. The clerk kept a ledger
account, made out a pay-roll at the end of each month, and had
the men sign it. It was approved by the superintendent, and
delivered to Ordway, and he received the amount from the
United States, with the fifteen per cent added, according to the
contract. He then paid the men, according to the pay-roll and
*their receipts thereon. The appellee was employed and paid in
this way.
It is clear that there was no privity between the appellee and
the United States. Ordway employed him and was to pay him,
and did pay him. The United States had no interest in the
rate or amount paid, save that the sum so paid, with fifteen per
cent in addition, was the measure of the amount to be paid to
Ordway. The fact that Ordway procured the appellee's receipts,
presented his own vouchers to the government, and received
his pay before paying his hands, is immaterial as regards the
rights of the parties. It was a convenience to the contractor,
and safe for government. The hands trusted the former;
and, if he had failed to pay them, the loss would have been
theirs. The government having the contractor's receipts, it
could not have fallen upon the United States. The acknowledgment of payment by the employ6s, before getting their
money, was wholly their own concern. Ordway was bound by
his contract to have the work done as specified; and upon every
default he was liable for a penalty of .$100 a day until he should
fulfil his undertaking. This stipulation is incongruous with the

WALKER V. JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

idea of his being an agent and not a contractor. The latter was
his relation to the government. Between himself and the appellee it was simply that of employer and employd.
The mode, manner, and rate of Ordway's compensation was a
matter between him and the United States, and was one with
which the appellee bad nothing to do. Hence, in this case, it
can in nowise affect the rights of the parties. The appellee
stands upon exactly the same ground as the employ6s of any
other contractor with the government. It follows that he can
have no rightful claim against the appellant. This is conclusive
against him. It is, therefore, unnecessary to consider the other
points of defence insisted upon by the United States.
Judgment reversed, and the case remanded with directions to
dismiss the petition.

WALKER v. JOHNSON.
1. A parol contract for the delivery of materials is not void under the Statutc
of Frauds, unless it appears affirmatively that it was not to be performed
within a year. If performance by the promisor can be required by the
promisee within a year, the contract is valid.
2. A subsequent verbal agreement varying the manner of delivering them is
binding.
3. The comments of the judge in his charge to the jury, as to the circumstances
under which the defendant might be entitled to damages against the plaintiff,
cannot be a ground of error, when there was no such issue, and when the
defendant could not have been thereby prejudiced.
4. The court is not bound, at the request of counsel, to give as instructiong
philosophical remarks copied from text-books, however wise or true they
may be in the abstract, or however high the reputation of the authors.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
On the twenty-first day of July, 1869, Edwin I. Sherburne,
Edwin Walker, and Charles B. Farwell entered into a written
contract with the canal commissioners of the State of Illinois,
for the construction of a lock and dam in the Illinois River, near
the city of Henry, in which they agreed to commence the wDrk
on or before the first day of August, 1869, and complete it by
the first day of September, 1871.

