UNITED STATES v. BEEBE.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. BEEBE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOP THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 71. Argued November 6, 7, 1900.-Decided February 25, 1901.
It is entirely plain that there was no fraud in this case, and therefore this
ground for the complainant's relief cannot be sustained.
A district attorney of the United States has no power to agree upon a
compromise of a claim of the United States in suit, except under circumstances not presented in this case.
An attorney, by virtue of his general retainer only, has no power to compromise his client's claim; and a judgment entered on a compromise
made under such circumstances, is subject to be set aside on the ground
of the lack of authority in the attorney to make the compromise on which
the judgment rests.
Generally speaking the ladhes of officers of the Government cannot be set
up as a defence to a claim made by the Government.
When an agent has acted without authority, and it is claimed that the principal has thereafter ratified his act, such ratification can only be based
upon a full knowledge of all the facts upon which the unauthorized action was taken.

ON the tenth day of March, 1890, the United States brought
suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Middle
District of Alabama, against Eugene Beebe and the heirs at
law of one Ferris Ilenshaw, deceased, praying that two separate judgments in favor of the United States (one against
Beebe and the other against the administrator of Henshaw)
should be set aside and vacated; for the removal of the administration of the estate of Henshaw into that court; for an
accounting by Beebe and the other defendants by reason of
the liability of Beebe and Ilenshaw on the bond of Francis
Widmer, late collector of internal revenue in the second district of Alabama, and that the amount found due on the accounting should be made a prior lien on the land described in
the bill, and for other relief.
The defendants demurred to the bill and the court sustained
the same, after which the bill was amended and again demurred

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

to. The defendant Beebe died August 24, 1894, and the complainant revived the suit against his heirs at law, and subsequently the court sustained the dernurrers to the amended bill,
and the judgment dismissing the bill was upon appeal affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, and from
that judgment of affirmance the United States has appealed to
this court.
The following facts were set forth in the bill: Some time in
1873 one Francis Widmer was appointed collector of internal
revenue for the second district of Alabama, and Eugene Beebe
and Ferris ienshaw became sureties on his bond in the sum of
fifty thousand dollars. Widmer defaulted and failed to account
for and pay over to the Government the sum of $28,158.56 public moneys that had come into his hands as collector, which sum
was due the United States, with interest thereon from January 1,
1874. Beebe and Henshaw had for many years been partners
in business, and were joint owners in fee of certain real estate
described in the bill and situated in the county of Montgomery
and State of Alabama. Henshaw died there, intestate, April 19,
1879, leaving certain of the defendants named in the suit as his
heirs at law. The administrator of the estate of Renshaw reported to the court that his estate was insolvent, and in accordance with that report the estate was on July 2, 1880, declared
to be insolvent, and no settlement of the estate has since been
had. 'Beebe before and since July 2, 1880, was and has been
insolvent, without sufficient property to pay his debts. Ferris
HIenshaw was also insolvent at the time of his death. By reason of the insolvency of Eugene Beebe and Ferris Ifenshaw and
the insolvency of the latter's estate the United States became
and was entitled to priority of payment over any and all other
creditors of Beebe and I-lenshaw out of their property and estate, of the full amount collected, withheld and appropriated
by Widmer, the collector, and due to the United States. It is
averred that the land above described is liable for such debt,
and also that the complainant has a prior lien upon it therefor.
On June 3, 1880, separate actions in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Middle District of Alabama were cominenced, one against Beebe and the other against the adminis-

UNITED STATES v. BEEBE.
Statement of the Case.

trator of the estate of Henshaw, for the recovery of the sums
for which Widmer, collector, was in default, and amounting,
as stated, to over $28,000, with interest, and those suits were
continued from time to time, at the request of the defendants,
until February 6, 1885, when judgments were severally entered
in that court against Beebe, and also against Ilatchett, as administrator of Henshaw, for $100 and costs, and Beebe on
July 1, 1886, paid into the Treasury of the United States the
sum of $109.85 as the amount of the judgment and costs rendered against him, but the judgment against Hatchett, as administrator, remained unsatisfied to the date of the filing of
the bill in this suit.
The bill then proceeds as follows:
"That said judgments were entered under the following circumstances: That said defendants came into court, and stated
and represented in open court, and they caused to be stated and
represented for them, that said Beebe and said Ferris Ienshaw
were poor men, and that said Beebe and the estate of Ferris
Henshaw were without property out of which the said judgments could be paid and collected; that no part of said judgments
could be collected by due process of law; that nothing could
be made out of them, or either of them, or their estates, by
execution, but that ir the court would allow a jury and verdict
to be entered against them for one hundred dollars they, and
each of them, would pay said judgments and costs; that no
evidence or proof was or had been introduced in said causes, or
either of them; the indebtedness of said Beebe and Ienshaw
to the United States then being twenty-eight thousand one
hundred and fifty-eight dollars and fifty-six cents ($28,158.56),
and interest, or other large sum; and the statements and representations aforesaid only were before the said Circuit Court at
time of the entry of said judgments; and no hearing or determination upon the law or the facts involved in said cases was
ever had in said court; whereupon the court remarked that
unless the district attorney of the United States objected, the
causes might be disposed of as suggested aforesaid ; said district
attorney did not object, and said judgments for one hundred dollars and costs were entered in each of said causes. And orator

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

avers and charges that said statements and representations made
as aforesaid by and on behalf of, and for, said Beebe and said
Ferris Henshaw, and the estate of said Ferris Henshaw, were
wholly untrue, and were made to deceive said court and United
States attorney, and for the purpose and with the intent to defraud the United States. Orator further avers and charges
that said court and United States attorney had no authority in
law to accept said statements and representations, which were
not made under oath nor in the course of any judicial proceeding, and were not supported nor verified by evidence or proofs;
and that said acts of said court and United States attorney
amounted in law and in fact to, and was, and was intended to
be, a mere naked compromise of the claim and demand of the
United States against said Eugene Beebe and Ferris Ilenshaw,
and the estate of said Ferris Henshaw, which said court and the
United States attorney had no authority, but were inhibited
by law, to make, entertain and consummate; that said court
was without jurisdiction and power to determine said causes in
the manner aforesaid; and that said alleged judgments for one
hundred dollars and costs are null and void ab initio, and of no
effect, and should be vacated and held for naught in this court
of equity."
The bill then asks for the appointment of an administrator
ad litem of the Henshaw estate to represent it in the proceeding. It alleges that several of the defendants, naming them,
assert some claim against the property described in the bill,
which claims are alleged to be subordinate to the rights of the
United States to condemn and subject the land already mentioned to the satisfaction of the indebtedness of Beebe and Henshaw as sureties on the bond of Widmer, as collector, by reason of the default of the latter; and it is alleged that if any
conveyance of the land has been made by Beebe or Henshaw,
or the heirs of the latter, such conveyances were void and
ought to be vacated and set aside. It is further stated that the
facts and circumstances set out in the bill as the basis of the
relief asked for only recently came to the knowledge of the coinplainant, to wit, on or about March 5, 1890. The bill also set
forth that on March 22, 1877, Beebe conveyed by deed to Ferris

UNITED STATES v. BEEBE.
Statement of the Case.

1-enshaw, then his partner in business, all his interest and estate in the property described in the bill for certain purposes
therein set forth, and this deed complainant alleges was without consideration and fraudulently made to hinder, delay and
defraud the existing creditors of Beebe and was void, and all
the property described in the bill was bound even in the hands
of the heirs at law of Henshaw for the payment of the debts
due the United States from Beebe. The complainant prayed
that the judgments might be set aside and vacated, and the
property sold and the proceeds thereof applied to the payment
of the debts above mentioned.
The defendants severally demurred to the bill on various
grounds, (1) for want of equity; (2) that the bill showed that
the matters complained of against B~eebe and Henshaw, by reason of their being sureties for Widmer, the collector, had been
adjudicated in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Middle District of Alabama, in a suit commenced by the complainant against them, and that no sufficient ground was shown
for vacating and setting aside the judgments therein rendered ;
(3) that it appeared from the allegations in the bill that the
judgment against Beebe had been paid by him, and had been
received and accepted by the complainant, the United States,
and the bill contained no offer to refund the money, and it
does not show that the same had ever been tendered to Beebe.
Other grounds were stated in the demurrers.
Upon the hearing the court sustained the demurrers and
granted leave to amend the bill. On January 5, 1891, the
complainant amended its bill, the amendment alleging that
Beebe had executed another official bond as surety for one
Dustan, deputy postmaster at Demopolis, Alabama; that a default had occurred and judgment been recovered against Beebe
for $579.45 in 1878,and the judgment was still due and unpaid,
and execution thereon having been issued was duly returned
"no property."
The amended bill also contains an averment that there was
in fact no jury drawn in the cases in which the two judgments
were obtained and no verdicts rendered therein, although the
records of these judgments show a jury trial and a verdict in
each case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

To this bill as amended the defendants demurred, setting up
the same grounds of demurrer as to the original bill, and also
the additional grounds, (1) that the bill made a new case;
(2) that the matters stated in the amendment were not germane
to the purposes and object of the original bill, and stated new
matter; (3) that the bill as amended was multifarious.
The demurrers to the amended bill were sustained, and the
bill was finally dismissed.
.Mr.TV S. Reese, Jr., and Mfr. Robert A. ioward for appellants. Mr.Solioitor General was on their brief.
Mr.Alexander Troy and Mlfr. Henry S. Cattell for appellees,
except the Renshaw heirs. .Mr. .A. Gunter filed a brief for
the ilenshaw heirs.
MR.JUSTICE PECKxHAm, after making the above statement of
facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The principal claim against the defendants is based upon the
manner in which the two separate judgments were obtained
against the defendant Beebe, and the administrator of Ienshaw, in the Circuit Court of Alabama on February 6, 1885.
The amount due on one of those judgments (that against Beebe)
was paid into the United States Treasury on July 1, 1886, and
this suit was commenced in March, 1890.
The grounds upon which the court is asked to set aside the
judgments so entered are (1) fraud in procuring them, and
(2) the absence of power on the part of the district attorney to
make the compromise, and the consequent invalidity of the
judgments entered thereon.
The only ground which the allegation of fraud in relation to
the judgments is based consists in the averment in the bill that
the defendants came into court and represented that they were
poor men; that Beebe and the estate of Henshaw were without property out of which any judgment could be collected or
paid; that no part of any judgment could be collected by due
process of law; that nothing could be made out of them or

UNITED STATES v. BEEBE.
Opinion of the Court.

either of them or their estates by execution, but that if the
court would allow a jury and a verdict to be entered against
them for $100 they and each of them would pay said judgments
and costs. Accordingly judgments were so taken without any
evidence given or hearing had upon the merits of the claim.
It is manifest that these allegations would furnish no defence
to the cause of action on the part of the United States against
the defendants as sureties on the bond of Widmer. The statements had no tendency to prevent full preparation for trial on
the part of complainant, nor did they tend in any way to obstruct the full presentation of the cause of action against the
defendants on the trial. It is plain, therefore, that the representations, assuming them to have been false, could not constitute such a fraud as upon well settled principles a court of equity
will relieve against by setting aside a judgment in a case where
such representations were made. UnitedStatesv. Throclcmorton,
98 U. S. 61 ; Ward v. Town of Southfeld, 102 N. Y. 287, 292.
The first case has also been cited with approval in AiJofat v.
United States, 112 U. S. 24, 32, although a distinction is therein
made taking it out from the rule recognized in ViYrockinorton's
case.
But in fact there was no deception in the case. The bill itself avers that the estate of ilenshaw had been declared insolvent upon a report of the administrator in 1880, and there is no
allegation that the estate was not insolvent at that time. There
is on the contrary a distinct allegation that the defendant Beebe,
at, before and since July 2, 1880, had been insolvent and without sufficient property to pay his debts, including his indebtedness to the United States, and also that Ferris IHenshaw at the
time of his death was insolvent and without sufficient property
to pay his debts, and that by reason of the insolvency of Beebe
and Henshaw and the estate of Henshaw, the Government was
entitled to priority of payment. Section 3466, Revised Statutes
of the United States.
The insolvency of Beebe and the estate of Henshaw was thus
made a material averment of the bill in order to base the demand upon the part of the United States for priority of payment of its debt of more than $28,000, which would exist, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

was alleged, upon the setting aside of these judgments. It is
obviously impossible to found an allegation of fraud upon a
representation made by and for the defendants in open court,
which simply states as a fact that which the bill of the complainant itself distinctly avers was a fact. It is true the defendants, as the bill alleges, based their application for reduced
judgments upon this fact of insolvency, but whether the application were or were not meritorious is quite immaterial upon
the issue of fraud, so long as the statements upon which it was
made were neither fraudulent nor even false.
It is entirely plain there was no fraud in the case, and therefore this ground for complainant's relief cannot be sustained.
But a very different question arises from the alleged absence
of power on the part of the district attorney to make the compromise and the consequent invalidity of the judgment entered
thereon.
By demurring to the amended bill it is admitted that in former suits commenced by complainant against the defendants
Beebe and the administrator of the estate of Hienshaw, upon a
claim to recover some twenty-eight thousand dollars with interest for a number of years, based upon the liability of the defendants upon a bond to the United States executed by them
as sureties, two separate judgments were entered in favor of
the United States at a term of the United States Circuit Court
for the Middle District of Alabama, each judgment being for
the sum of only $100 and costs, and that although the judgment
records showed a regular trial before a jury and a verdict in
each case, yet in truth there had been no jury, no witnesses, no
evidence and no verdict, and that the judgments were simply
the result of a compromise of the claim in each of the two suits
as agreed upon by the district attorney on the one side and the
defendants upon the other. Upon these facts the appellant
claims that the judgments were wholly void for want of jurisdiction in the court to authorize them.
The appellants also claim that if not void, the judgments were
at least irregular, and upon the facts averred in the bill ought
to be set aside.
We do not think that they were void as if rendered by a

UNITED STATES v. BEEBE.
Opinion of the Court.

court having no jurisdiction of the person or of the subject-matter, as confessedly the court had jurisdiction over both; but
the facts just stated and which are admitted by the demurrers
are enough in our opinion to call for the setting aside of those
judgments. Itis enough, without alleging fraud in their entry,
that they siniply carry out and represent a compromise made
by the district attorney which he had no power to enter into,
and which rendered the judgments so far unauthorized as to
permit a suit to set them aside.
We think there can be no serious question that a district attorney of the United States has no power to agree upon a compromise of a claim in suit except under circumstances not
present in this case. There is no statute of the United States and
no regulation has been called to our attention giving a district
attorney any such power, but, on the contrary, it is provided
in paragraph 7 of the regulations established by the Solicitor
of the Treasury, and approved by the Attorney General, pursuant to section 377 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
that no district attorney shall agree to take a judgment or decree
for a less amount than is claimed by the United States, without
express instructions from the Solicitor of the Treasury, unless
circumstances exist which do not obtain in this case. The
power to compromise a suit in which the United States is a
party does not exist with the district attorney any more than a
power to compromise a private suit between individuals rests
with the attorney of either party, and that such an attorney has
no power to compromise a claim in suit has been frequently decided. Holker v. Parker,7 Cranch, 436. In that case it was
remarked by Marshall, Chief Justice, that"Although an attorney at law, merely as such, has, strictly
speaking, no right to make a compromise; yet a court would be
disinclined to disturb one which was not so unreasonable in itself
as to be exclaimed against by all, and to create an impression
that the judgment of the attorney has been imposed on, or not
fairly exercised in the case. But where the sacrifice is such as
to leave it scarcely possible that, with a full knowledge of every
circumstance, such a compromise could be fairly made, there
can be no hesitation in saying that the compromise, being un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

authorized and being therefore in itself void, ought not to bind
the injured party."
The same has been held in Massachusetts in Lewis v. Gamage,
1 Pick. 347; and in New York in Barrettv. Third Avenue Railroad Company, 45 N. Y. 628, 635, and Xandeville v. Reynolds,
68 IN. Y. 528, 540. And see Kilmer v. Gallaher, Supreme
Court of Iowa, December 22, 1900, 52 Cent. L. J. 150, and note;
Bigler v. Toy, 68 Iowa, 688. Indeed, the utter want of power
of an attorney, by virtue of his general retainer only, to compromise his client's claim, cannot, we think, be successfully
disputed.
A judgment entered upon such a compromise is subject to be
set aside on the ground of the lack of authority in the attorney
to make the compromise upon which the judgment rests. Prima
facie, the act of the attorney in making such compromise and
entering or permitting to be entered such judgment is valid,
because it is assumed the attorney acted with special authority,
but when it is proved he had none, the judgment will be vacated
on that ground. Such judgment will be set aside upon application in the cause itself if made in due time or by a resort to a
court of equity where relief may be properly granted.
In flobb v. Yos, 155 U. S. 13, it was held that although the
judgment was on its face valid and regular, yet inasmuch as the
attorney who appeared on behalf of one of the defendants did
so without the consent of his principal, the remedy of the principal, when the facts came to his knowledge, was in equity, where
the judgment might be set aside as to him. So, if the judgment
be in fact entered upon a compromise made by the attorney who
had no authority to make it, the judgment may be attacked and
set aside in an equitable action u pon proof of the necessary facts.
Although the judgment is not void for want of jurisdiction in
the court, it will yet be set aside upon affirmative proof that
the attorney had no right to consent to its entry.
It is said that the judgment being valid on its face, evidence
to contradict its recitals is not admissible unless in case of such a
fraud as will be relieved against in a court of equity. Fraud
under certain circumstances is a ground upon which a judgment
may and will be set aside; but in addition to such ground,

UNITED STATES v. BEEBE.
Opinion of the Court.

where, as in this case, the judgment is entered upon a compromise made by an attorney, entirely unauthorized, and without
any trial, we have no doubt that such fact may be proved in
order to lay the foundation for an application to a court of
equity to set the judgment aside, although the proof contradicts
the record of the judgment itself and shows that in fact there
was no jury, no trial and no verdict.
It is however urged that the Government has lost its right
to assail these judgments because of the lapse of time and because one of the judgments was paid before the commencement
of this suit. The bill shows that they were entered on February 6, 1885, and that on July 1, 1886, Beebe paid the amount
of the judgment against him into the Treasury of the United
States. The bill was not filed until March 10, 1890, and it is
therefore said that the Government has ratified the action of
the district attorney by a failure to proceed to set the judgments aside at an earlier date than it did.
It is not averred in the bill to whom Beebe paid the amount
of the judgment, but there is simply a statement that it was
paid into the Treasury of the United States. We must probably assume from such averment that the payment was made
to an officer who had the right to receive the money, but it is
not charged that such officer received it with knowledge of the
facts preceding the entry of the judgment and by virtue of
which such judgment was entered. There would be nothing
in the record of the judgment itself which would show anything other than a regular trial of the case and a verdict of
a Jury upon which the judgment was entered; consequently
there would be nothing in the record which would charge the
officer with knowledge that the judgment was only the result
of and represented a compromise made by the district attorney,
which he had no power to make.
In addition to this want of notice there is an averment in the
bill that the facts and circumstances set out therein as the basis
of the relief asked for by the bill had only come to the knowledge of the complainant on or about March 5, 1890. From
1885, when the judgments were entered, no one having authority to act in the premises for the Government had any knowledge of these facts until March, 1890, and this the demurrers
vo,. cxxx-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

admit. Generally speaking, the laches of officers of the Government cannot be set up as a defence to a claim made by the
United States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 720,
Government.
735; United States v. Vanzant, 11 Wheat. 184; -Dox v. The Postma.ster General, I Pet. 318, 325; Jlart v. United States, 95
U. S. 316; Gaussen v. United States, 97 U. S. 584.
But we fail to see wherein the officers of the Government
have been guilty of laches. There has been no ratification of
any unauthorized act of the district attorney by reason of any
delay on the part of the Government after knowledge of the
facts, and without that knowledge there can be no ratification
and in this case no laches.
Where an agent has acted without authority and it is claimed
that the principal has thereafter ratified his act, such ratification
can only be based upon a full knowledge of all the facts upon
which the unauthorized action was taken. This is as true
in the case of the Government as in that of an individual.
Knowledge is necessary in any event. Story on Agency, 9th
ed. sec. 239, notes 1 and 2. If there be want of it, though such
want arises from the neglect of the principal, no ratification can
be based upon any act of his. Knowledge of the facts is the
essential element of ratification, and must be shown or such
facts proved that its existence is a necessary inference from them.
Here, it is denied by an express averment in the bill to that
effect, and must be taken as a fact. There being no knowledge
of the facts on the part of the Government until March, 1890,
we think there were no laches on its part which would bar the
maintenance of this suit. We think it cannot be said that a
failure to earlier obtain knowledge was evidence of neglect
upon the part of the officers of the Government, even though
neglect would affect the Government in its right to maintain this
suit.
Nor do we think the omission to make in the bill an offer to
repay the hundred dollars and costs paid into the Treasury of
the United States constituted a fatal defect in the pleading. It
was a payment of money only, and the amount might be properly credited to the representatives of Beebe upon the trial of
the action, and constitute by that amount a reduction of the
claim of the Government; or if, upon the trial, the compromise

UNITED STATES v. BEEBE.
Opinion of the Court.

being set aside and the cause tried on its merits, it should appear
there was nothing due to the Government on its claim, the
amount paid by Beebe into the Treasury together with interest
thereon might be the subject of judgment against the Government. At any rate, no payment has been made upon the judgment against Henshaw's estate, and the payment made by Beebe
did not operate as a payment of the judgment against that estate, because by the terms of the agreement as set forth in the
bill the compromise consisted in a promise to pay by each the
amount of each judgment of a hundred dollars and costs. The
amended bill is not therefore defective so as to be demurrable
as not containing facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
And we do not think it is multifarious. The amendment but
added another claim to those already made which were averred
to be prior liens upon the lands in the hands of the Henshaw
heirs at law. If the lands described in the bill, or any portion
of them, have been conveyed to bona fide grantees for value,
nothing in this opinion can be taken as in any way passing upon
the question of their right to insist that they took the lands free
and clear of any lien in favor of the Government, other than the
$100 judgments.
To conclude, we are of opinion that the district attorney had
no authority to compromise the claim of the Government by
consenting to the entry of the judgments in question and as that
unauthorized act on his part has never been ratified by the Government, with knowledge of the facts, and no laches are in reality attributable in this case to the Government, which proceeded
at the earliest moment after the discovery of the facts to file
this bill, we are of opinion that a cause of action was set forth
in the amended bill and that the demurrers to such amended
bill should be overruled.
Tie judgments qf tie United States C rcuit Courtof Appeals
for the Fyfth Circuit and qf the Circuit Court of the United Statesfor the /fiddle District of Alabama are tiherefore
reversed and the case remitted to the latter court with directions to overrule the demurrers,with leave to the defendants
to answer , andfor suchfurtherproceedingsas are consistent with this opinion. So ordered.

