HOBBS v. BEACH.
Statement of the Case.

the bill is to enjoin proceedings about to be taken to that end.
We agree with the Circuit Court that in these circumstances
there is no force to the suggested distinction between a case
where the assessment has not in fact been made and a case
where it has already been made. When made, neither one of
these complainants will be called upon to pay a sum equal to
the amount of two thousand dollars, nor will any one of the
lots be assessed to that amount.
Decree affirmed.

HOBBS v. BEACH.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 139. Argued January 16, 17, 1900.-Decided March 5, 1901.
The first three and sixth claims of reissued letters patent No. 11,167 to Fred
H. Beach for a machine for attaching stays to the corners of boxes, were
not anticipated by prior devices, and are valid.
It is within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Patents to order a patent to be reissued to correct an obvious error in one of the drawings.
The claims of the Beach patent were not unlawfully expanded pending the
litigation of interferences in the Patent Office.
A patent is not terminated by the expiration of a foreign patent for the
same invention, unless such patent were obtained by the American patentee, or by his consent, connivance or authority.
The first three and sixth claims of the Beach patent held to be infringed
by defendant, manufacturing under a patent to Horton of December, 1890.
The fact that a claim contains the words "substantially as described" does
not preclude the patentee from insisting that his patent has been infringed
by the use of a mechanical equivalent. These words are entitled to but
little weight in determining the question of infringement, although, if a
doubt arose upon the question whether an infringing machine is the mechanical equivalent of a patented device, that doubt might be resolved
against the patentee, where the claims contain the words "substantially
as described, or set forth."

Tis was a bill in equity by Fred 1H. Beach against Clarence
W. Hobbs and Richard Sugden, now deceased, (whose estate is

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

represented by his executors,) doing business under the name
of the Hobbs Manufacturing Company, for an injunction and
a recovery of damages for the infringement of reissued letters
patent No. 11,167, dated May 26, 1891, for a "Machine for attaching Stays to the Corners of Boxes."
In his specification the patentee makes the following statements :
"That it has been customary heretofore in making paper or
straw-board boxes to apply a stay or fastening strip over the
joints at the corners of the boxes, which strip is pasted down
on the outside of the box or is folded over the edge of the box
and secured by paste both outside and inside of the corner; and
such work, as far as I am aware, has heretofore been done by
hand."
"My invention relates to a machine for doing this work; and
it consists in the matters hereinafter set forth, and pointed out
in the appended claims."
Following are fifteen drawings of the machine and distinct
portions thereof, and a minute description of the same. The
patentee continues:
"The machine herein shown is, as hereinbefore stated, constructed to turn into the inside of the box the projecting end
of the stay, and for this purpose the stay-strip is made of such
width, and its guides are so arranged that the inner edge of the
strip extends over or past the edge of the box-wall, so that
when the stay is pasted down on the outside of the box corner,
a loose or free end projects outward beyond the inner edge of
the box. After the plunger G has pressed the stay upon the
box the secondary plunger or strip-bender H then descends and
bends or turns this loose end vertically downward."
"In many boxes the stay is simply pasted against the exterior surface of the box-corner, and is not turned in or over the
edge of the same; in which case the work can be done by using a non-reciprocating angular lower die, or anvil, and a single
upper die or plunger. In such case the form B will obviously
be not necessary as a part separate from the die; or, in other
words, a single lower die or form will take the place of the
form 13 and movable lower die I,"

HOBBS v. BEACH.
Statement of the Case.

"As far as the main features of my invention are concerned,
forms other than those illustrated of the several parts of the
machine may be employed without departure from my invention-as, for instance, in place of the particular mechanism
shown for feeding or delivering fastening-strips or stay-strips
to and between the clamping dies, or for applying paste or glue
to the said stay-strips-other forms of strip feeding and pasting devices may be used in practice with the same general result, as above described."
The following are the claims alleged to have been infringed
by the defendants:
"1. The combination, with opposing clamping-dies, having diverging working faces, of a feeding mechanism constructed to
deliver stay-strips between said clamping-dies, and a pasting
mechanism for rendering adhesive the stay-strips, said clampingdies being constructed to cobperate in pressing upon interposed
box-corners the adhesive stay-strips, substantially as described.
"2. The combination, with opposing clamping-dies, having
diverging working faces, said clamping-dies being arranged to
coiperate in pressing adhesive fastening strips upon interposed
box-corners, 'a feeding mechanism constructed to feed forward
a continuous fastening-strip, and a cutter for severing the said
continuous strip into stay-strips of suitable lengths, substan-'
tially as described.
"3. The combination, with opposing clamping-dies, having
diverging working faces, said clamping-dies being arranged to
coiperate in pressing an adhesive fastening-strip upon the corner of an interposed box, a feeding mechanism constructed to
feed between the dies a continuous fastening-strip, a pasting
mechanism for applying. adhesive substance to the strip, and a
cutter for severing the strips into stay-strips of suitable lengths,
substantially as described."
"6. The combination of opposing clamping-dies having diverging working faces constructed to cooperate in pressing an
adhesive stay-strip upon an interposed box-corner, one of said
clamping-dies being constructed to act with an elastic or yielding pressure to enable the dies to operate upon the box-corners
of different thicknesses, substantially as described."
VOL. cLxxx-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon a hearing, upon pleadings and proofs, the case resulted
in a decree in favor of the plaintiff Beach upon the sixth claim,
and a further finding that the first, second and third claims had
not been infringed. 82 Fed. Rep. 916.
Both parties appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which
reversed the decree of the Circuit Court with respect of the first
three claims of the patent, and affirmed it as to the sixth claim,
and remanded the case for further proceedings in conformity
with the opinion. 92 Fed. Rep. 146.

Xr. Sagnuel T.Fisher for Hobbs.

fr. Edward S. Beach

was on his brief.

Mr. John Dane, Jr., for Beach.
MR. USTICE BRowN, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The art of making paper boxes requires that the better class,
of square or other angular shapes, be stayed or reinforced at
the corners, where a union of the sides and ends is Co be brought
about by the application of adhesive strips of paper or muslin
placed upon the joints, and the corners thereby strengthened,
before receiving their final covering of paper. Prior to the
Beach invention, the work of thus strengthening the corners of
paper boxes by these adhesive strips had always been performed
in a tedious and irregular way by hand.
The Beach machine and its operation are thus described by
the plaintiff's expert:
"The machine consists of an anvil or lower die, having at the
uppper portion two working faces, which diverge downward
from one another at a right angle. Working in connection
with this anvil or die, and above it, is a vertical movable die or
plunger, having also two diverging working faces, the working
faces of the plunger forming a notch therein, which notch cooperates with the upper portion of the lower anvil or die, the
dies being adapted to operate upon the right-angle corner of a
box to compress the said corner between the working faces of

HOBBS v. BEACH.
Opinion of the Court.

the opposing dies. A strip of paper suitable for the stay is fed
by automatically moving mechanism over a pasting device, and
between a pair of shears, and thence between the upper and
lower die when separated. The operation of the machine briefly
described is as follows: A box whose corner is to be strengthened by the addition of a stay strip is placed upon the lower
anvil or die, the inside of the corner of the box resting upon the
apex of the lower die. The machine as it is revolved then feeds
forward the stay strip which has the paste upon it, and as the
upper die descends the shears also operate, severing from the
continuous stay strip a portion sufficient for the stay. As the
cutting operation is completed the upper die or plunger is descending, and forces the gummed stay strip into position upon
the outside of the box corner, and the stay strip and box corner
are pressed between the working faces of the two opposing dies,
and thus the stay strip is caused to conform to, and be stuck
upon, the corner of the box. When the upper die or plunger
rises, the box with its attached stay strip can be removed and
another corner presented, when the operation will be repeated.
The upper die or plunger is provided with a spring of rubber or
metal, so that it may yield slightly in the direction of its motion, so that it may give an elastic pressure upon the box, and
also be made to operate upon different thicknesses of box or staystrips."
"Briefly, this description describes the machine, so far as it
is necessary to describe the same for the purposes of this case.
I must state, however, that the machine is also arranged to fold
in the end of the stay strip within and into the interior of the
box, and this it accomplishes by having the lower die longitudinally movable, and by supporting the box upon both the working faces of the lower die and upon the faces of the block within
which the lower die can move. The faces of the upper portion
of the die and of the block are arranged so that they form two
planes at right angles to one another, the planes of the upper
working faces of the die corresponding with the planes of the
upper faces of the block. I refer to this capacity of the machine
merely for the purpose of showing that I have considered the
same, but such capacity, that is, the ability to turn the end of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the stay strip in and over the edge of the box, is not a feature
of the machine which need always be present. I quote as follows from the specification of the patent :
" 1In many boxes, the stay is simply pasted against the exterior surface of the box corner, and is not turned in or over the
edge of the same, in \vhich case the work can be done by using
a non-reciprocating angular lower die or anvil, and a single upper
die or plunger.'
" From the above quotation, it will be clearly evident that
the patentee contemplated using his machine in the simple form
in which I have described it, and divested of that mechanism
which is involved when the stay strip is turned over the edge
of the box and into the same. As the issue in this case involves
a mechanism which does not turn the stay strip over and into
the box, I have deemed it best not to put into the record a
description of the mechanism necessary to accomplish that result."
The first claim of the patent is for (1) two opposing clamping
dies, having diverging working faces; (2) a feeding mechanism
which delivers the stay strip between the clamping dies, when
the upper die is raised; and (3) a pasting mechanism. The
clamping dies are so constructed as to cobperate with one another in pressing upon interposed box corners the adhesive stay
strips, substantially as described.
The second claim also includes the opposing clamping dies
with diverging working faces; the same feeding mechanism,
and a cutter for severing the continuous strip into stay strips
of suitable length, substantially as described.
The third claim includes the same dies, the feeding mechanism, the pasting mechanism and the cutter; in short, a combination of all the elements of the two preceding claims.
The sixth claim includes the same clamping dies having the
diverogig working faces, one of which clamping dies is constructed to act with an elastic or yielding pressure, to enable
the dies to operate upon box corners of different thicknesses.
1. The three first claims were vigorously assailed by the defence upon the ground that, in view of the prior state of the
art, they involved no invention. Unfortunately, however, this

HOBBS v. BEACH.
Opinion of the Court.

defence comes to us so loaded down with adverse decisions that
we should hesitate to sustain it, unless it were made clear that,
through some misunderstanding or omission, it had not been
fully presented to the various tribunals which had passed upon
it, or that their rulings had been based upon a misapprehension
of the facts.
The proofs show that Mr. Beach made application for his
patent in June, 1885; that while pending in the Patent Office
it was placed in interference with five other claims, and that
the patentee was awarded priority of invention by the examiner of interferences, by the board of examiners-in-chief on
appeal, and finally by the Commissioner of Patents. It also
appears that, in a suit in the Northern District of New York,
defended by two of the contestants in the interference proceeding, these three claims were sustained by the Circuit Court,
Beach v. American Box Jifac/ne Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 597, and
on appeal, by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
Inman Manitfacturing Co. v. Beact/e,, 71 Fed. Rep. 420; S. C.,
35 U. S. App. 667. Nor do we understand that in the ease
under consideration the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts differed from the New York courts as to the validity
of the first three claims. Indeed, the learned Circuit Judge says
expressly: " On the questions of anticipation and the state of
the art, we therefore follow the conclusions of the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit." The difference between
him and the Circuit Court of Appeals, to which this case was
carried, related to the proper construction of these claims, and
to the question of their infringement. Of course, we are bound
to give to this question of anticipation an independent consideration. At the same time, we feel ourselves bound to defer
somewhat to this unanimity of opinion upon the part of so
many learned and distinguished judges, whose lives have been
largely devoted to the examination of patent causes.
Taking up these prior patents, our attention is at once challenged to the fact that none of them covers a machine for attaching paper or muslin stays to the corners of boxes; and the
question arises whether the uses to which these machines are
adapted are so nearly analogous to the use made of them by

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Beach that the applicability of the old device to the new use
would occur to a person of ordinary mechanical skill, within
the case of Pott v. Creager, 155 U. S. 597, in which we said
(p. 608) "if the new use be so nearly analogous to the former
one, that the applicability of the device to its new use would
occur to a person of ordinary mechanical skill, it is only a case
of double use, but if the relations between them be remote, and
especially if the use of the old device produces a new result, it
may at least involve an exercise of the inventive faculty."
It is sufficient to observe of the patents to Cohn of 1874, to
Lieb of 1880, and of the English patent to Hadden of 1884, that
they cover machines for stitching wire or attaching metallic
stays, and that, while all three of them have the clamping dies
with diverging faces, they lack most of the other elements of the
first three claims of the Beach patent. The possibility of adapting these devices to the attaching of gummed strips to the corners
of paper boxes might occur to an ordinary mechanic, but could
scarcely be carried into effect without the employment of something more than mechanical skill.
Most of the other prior patents relate to machines for making
paper tags, wherein a piece or patch is gummed or cemented to
the side of the tag to strengthen it; to preparing paper for covering paper boxes; to covering such boxes with pasted paper;
to machines for making match or other paper boxes; forming
heel stiffeners; shaping or working sheet metals, or addressing
machines.
The only patents requiring special notice are the Maxfield
and Terry patents for making paper boxes, which relate to
mechanism for pressing a strip of glued paper upon the edge of
circular collar boxes at the junction of the bottom and sides,
or rim, so as to form a union of the circular end with the
cylindrical side of the box. The operation of the machines
seems to be only partly mechanical, and differs so widely from
the Beach patent that they can hardly be seriously insisted upon
as anticipating it. It would seem from the specifications that
a great part of the work is done by hand ; indeed, in the Terry
patent, it is said "that the invention connects the circular parts
with the strips, said parts forming the tops and bottoms and

HOBBS v. BEACH.
Opinion of the Court.

sides of boxes; the remaining work, such as the pasting of the
strip in one part, being done by hand, as also the covering of
the boxes, if desired, with colored paper." The machine is in
no sense automatic, and if it were, its functions are so different
from those of the Beach device it is clearly no anticipation.
None of these patents approximates so nearly to the Beach
patent as that of Dennis and York's addressing machine, which
was the only one deemed worthy of special notice in the courts
below. This relates to "addressing machines in which a strip
of paper, with the addresses printed thereon, is run through the
machine, the addresses cut off in slips, and automatically affixed
to the newspapers, envelopes, or other articles by a descending
knife and platen." The object of the invention is stated to be
"to change or adjust the feed automatically by the running of
the machine itself so that addresses of greater or less width
can be cut accurately without attention of the operator, the
machine adjusting itself accurately to the work to be done;
and, second, to enable the addresses to be affixed to single
sheets beneath the platen." The machine has a feeding, pasting and cutting mechanism, combined with a vertical reciprocating plunger, armed at its lower end with a knife to cut off
the addresses, and descending with a flat head upon a flat
platen, a newspaper being interposed between. The bed on
which the papers rest is called a "follower," and instead of being rigid, is supported upon light coiled springs and by lever
action, so that it will move up and down freely and produce
just enough pressure under all circumstances to receive the
pasted slip upon the upper sheet. Being designed for light
work it is not built with the solidity required for pasting strips
upon boxes, and in other particulars differs from the Beach
device.
In its operation, it approaches much more nearly to the Beach
device than any other which has been put in evidence, and we
agree with the Circuit Court of Northern New York that if
this be not an anticipation, none of the others are. By changing the flat head and the flat platen to clamping dies with
diverging faces, and strengthening and changing the machine
in some minor particulars, it could be used to fasten stay strips

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

to box corners. Indeed, a model of the Dennis and York machine, so altered, was put in evidence, and shown to be capable
of doing the work of the Beach patent, though somewhat crudely
and imperfectly. It is insisted that, as the only material change
in the Dennis and York machine is the substitution of dies with
diverging faces for the flat head and platen of that structure,
this involves no invention, and that it would at once occur to a
mechanic of ordinary skill.
It appears from the testimony that several of these addressing machines, of which that of Den'is and York is a type, and
which are now claimed to have inspired the Beach patent, had
been upon the market for many years, and yet it never seems
to have occurred to any one engaged in the manufacture of paper boxes that they could be made available for the purpose of
attaching strips to the corners of such boxes. This very fact
is evidence that the man who discovered the possibility of their
adaptation to this new use was gifted with the prescience of an
inventor. While none of the elements of the Beach patenttaken separately or perhaps even in a somewhat similar combination-was new, their adaptation to this new use and the
minor changes required for that purpose resulted in the establishinent of practically a new industry, and was a decided step
in advance of any that had theretofore been made.
We agree that if the Dennis and York machine were designed for the purpose of attaching together the edges of paper
boxes, where each surface was in line with the other, with the
aid of flat dies and platen, it would require no invention, in view
of other anticipating devices, to change this to dies with diverging faces for gluing boxes at their corners. But that is not all.
Beach did not have before him a machine for attaching strips
to the corners of paper boxes, but a machine for attaching addresses to newspapers, and while there is an analogy, there can
scarcely be said to be a similarity in these functions. We
agree with the courts below that it did involve invention to see
that a machine of the Dennis and York type was adaptable to
the work of the Beach device, and, second, to make such changes
as were necessary to adapt that device to its new function.
With all the anticipating devices before us, it is apparent that

HOBBS v. BEACH.
Opinion of the Court.

the mere change in the shape of the dies was a minor part of the
work involved in so changing the Dennis and York machine as
to make it perform a wholly different function, the invention consisting rather in the idea that such change could be made, than in
making the necessary mechanical alterations. As stated by
Judge Coxe in his opinion in Beach v. American Box Machine
Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 597, "the question is whether a mechanic before any one had thought of pasting stay strips to the corners
of boxes by machinery, would construct the Beach machine after seeing the labeling machine. Would the latter suggest
the idea and the embodiment of the idea? Would the thought
enter the mind of the skilled mechanic with the Dennis and
York device before him on his work bench; and if it did, would
it not be a creative thought whose presence would convert the
mechanic into an inventor? "
In passing upon the question of novelty we feel at liberty to
consider the fact that the Beach machine and its congeners have
completely supplanted the former method of applying strips by
hand; that no manufacturer can successfully compete for the
trade without adopting such machine; that it not only applies
these strips with much greater rapidity than is possible by hand,
but the work done is stronger, cheaper, cleaner and more uniform; that the machine attaches the strip more rigidly about
the corner, and that by reason of its greater compression forces
out the moisture and dries the box for immediate use; that
there is also a saving of material by cutting the strips of the
proper length instead of tearing them, and that by reason of
the greater compression heavier and stronger material may be
employed than was possible when the work was done by hand.
We find no difficulty in holding that the first three claims of
this patent were not anticipated by any prior devices.
What we have said regarding these claims applies with even
greater potency to the sixth claim, which introduces a new feature of a clamping die constructed to act with an elastic or yielding pressure, to enable the dies to operate upon box corners of
different thicknesses. While the mere introduction of springs
to enable the plunger to act with an elastic pressure may not
of itself have been a novelty, its introduction into a machine

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

which was itself novel certainly did not destroy its novel character. The claim does not cover simply- a die constructed in
this manner; but the elastic feature introduced into one of opposing clamping dies, having diverging working faces, constructed to cobperate in pressing an adhesive stay strip upon
an interposed box corner, was clearly novel; and while the introduction of this feature into an old and non-patentable machine may not itself involve invention, in this case it is merely
an additional element introduced into a machine which did itself
involve invention. This feature was introduced into Beach's
claim as early as May 4, 1886, by an amendment to his specification, before the patent was issued, and hence could not have
been inserted to cover the Horton patent used by defendants,
which never was known to the trade before 1889 or 1890.
2. The validity of the reissue is attacked upon the ground
that the original patent was neither " inoperative nor invalid
by reason of a defective or insufficient specification," as required by statute, (Rev. Stat. sec. 4916,) to justify a reissue. The
reissue was applied for April 9, 1891, but a few weeks after
the original patent was issued, merely to correct, as it would
seem, an obvious error in one of the drawings. Possibly the
error was such as would not have impaired the patentee's
rights under his original designs; but he was entitled to the
full scope of his invention, and if he were dissatisfied with
the drawings as they stood, and the error was purely an inadvertent one, we think it was within the jurisdiction of the
Commissioner of Patents to order the patent to be reissued.
The defence is purely a technical one. There was no attempt
to enlarge the claims or to alter the specifications. There is no
evidence that any one could have been prejudiced by the reissue, and we see no reason to doubt that it was applied for in
good faith, and with a design only of securing to the patentee
what he had actually invented. To justify a reissue it is not
necessary that the patent should be wholly inoperative or invalid. It is sufficient if it fail to secure to the patentee all of
that which he has invented and claimed. The reissue was applied for so promptly that no question can arise upon the facts
of this case of an attempt to cover devices which had been pat-

HOBBS v. BEACH.
Opinion of the Court.

ented or mean time had come to the knowledge of the patentee.
As was said in Toplif v. Toplif, 145 U. S. 156, 171: "This
court will not review the decision of the Commissioner upon
the question of inadvertence, accident or mistake, unless the
matter is manifest from the record." The only alternative of
a reissue was a suit upon the original patent, in which the patentee would be compelled to take his chances of success, notwithstanding the error in his drawing, when in case of defeat
the time in which to obtain a reissue might have expired. We
do not think he should be driven to this expedient.
3. The defence that the claims of the Beach patent were unlawfully expanded pending the litigation in the Patent Office
and before the final issue of the patent by omitting the secondary
plunger or strip bender H, was considered by the courts in both
the First and Second Circuits, and was held to be unsupported
by the facts. In his first application, made June 10, 1885, Beach
claimed not only a plunger coming down "to press the stay
upon the box," but a secondary plunger coming down "to
turn the projecting end of the stay down at right angles," although in the third claim the secondary plunger is not mentioned as an element; and in his specification he says "in some
kinds of work the stay can be applied and the projecting edge
turned under without the use of the secondary plunger IH; but
in ordinary work it is necessary." In his first amendment, filed
May 4, 1886, he states that "in some cases, with the use of thin
stays, the edge that projects beyond the edge of the box will
be turned down sufficiently by the action of the plunger G, and
without the use of the secondary plunger H;" and that "in
many boxes the stay is simply pasted down over the corner of
the box, and is not turned under, in which case the work can
be done by using the angular form and one plunger with a corresponding angular notch." He also amended his first claim to
fit this contingency, by omitting mention of the secondary
plunger, and adding a fourth claim, in which he describes the
plunger as "formed with an elastic or yielding foot."
All this was prior to the invention of the Horton machine,
which was first put into use in September, 1889. Of course,
the amendment of May, 1886, could not have been made with

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

reference to this device. It is true that, in November, 1890,
after application had been made for the Horton patent, new
specifications and claims were filed, in which the invention was
stated much more in detail, and with much fuller and more
accurate language than before. But there appears to have
been no attempt to expand the original claims for the purpose
of including the Horton patent.
The patent had been the subject of an earnest contest in the
Patent Office for four years; had been put in interference with
five other devices, and it was scarcely possible that, after this
long litigation, the patentee should not have detected defects
in his original application, and have taken this opportunity of
correcting them. His experience in this litigation had doubtless apprised him of the weak points in his prior specification and
claims, and it was perfectly competent for him to restate them,
provided his patent was not essentially broadened to cover intervening devices.
In Railway Co. v. Sayles, 97 U. S. 554, 563, application for
patent was made in June, 1847, and rejected. The application
remained unaltered until 1852, when it was amended, and a
patent granted with considerable modifications. In the mean
time other devices were introduced, including that used by the
defendant. It was with reference to this state of facts that the
court observed: "If the amended application and model, filed
by Tanner five years later, embodied any material addition to
or variance from the original-anything new that was not comprised in that-such addition or variance cannot be sustained
on the original application. The law does not permit such enlargements of an original specification, which would interfere
with other inventors who have entered the field in the mean
time, any more than it does in the case of reissues of patents
previously granted. Courts should regard with jealousy and
disfavor any attempts to enlarge the scope of an application
once filed, or of a patent once granted, the effect of which
would be to enable the patentee to appropriate other inventions
made prior to such alteration, or to appropriate that which has,
in the mean time, gone into public use."
Had there been any expansion of the original specification

HOBBS v. BEACH.
Opinion of the Court.

and claims subsequent to the introduction of the Horton machine, especially if made with reference thereto, we should not
have hesitated to apply the doctrine of that case, but we see no
evidence of an intent to cover that machine, unless it were already covered, and agree with Judge Lacombe, that "the original drawings and specifications suggest the claims finally made,
which recognize and claim the two different operations of outside and inside applications."
4. The assignment that the court erred in holding that the
reissue expired April 5, 1892, in consequence of the expiration
on that date of the British Reed-Jaeger patent of April 5, 1888,
for the same invention, is not supported by any evidence that
this patent was obtained by Beach, or that the application for
the same was authorized, directly or indirectly, by him. It is
true that by Rev. Stat. sec. 4887, "every patent granted for an
invention which has been previously patented in a foreign country shall be so limited as to expire at the same time with the
foreign patent;" but this obviously presupposes that the foreign
patent shall have been obtained by the American patentee or
with his consent. This is evident from the somewhat awkward
phraseology of the first clause of the section, which declares that
"No person shall be debarred from receiving a patent for his
invention, . . . by reason of its having been first patented
or caused to be patented in a foreign country," which evidently
means that the patentee shall not be debarred from his patent
by reason of 8ishaving first patented, or caused his invention
to be patented, in a foreign country. Indeed, it would be so
manifestly unjust that a patentee should lose the full fruits of
his patent by the fact that some intermeddler had caused the
invention to be patented abroad, that we could not give that
construction to the section, unless its phraseology imperatively
demanded it. This construction would suggest an excellent device to an enemy to bring about the termination of an inconvenient patent. It seems that this patent was applied for by
Reed April 5, 1888, at the instigation of Jaeger, (who was one
of the contestants in the interference proceedings before the
Patent Office,) and was allowed to expire April 5, 1892, through
non-payment of the renewal fee required by British law. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

fact that this patent was obtained through the instigation of one
who was at that very time contesting Beach's right to the patent before the Patent Office, indicates almost conclusively that
it was not obtained by Beach's authority.
This reply to defendants' assignment is so conclusive that
we have not thought it worth while to inquire whether the
Jaeger British patent and the Beach patent were for substantially the same invention. Nor do we find it necessary to express an opinion whether the lapsing of a foreign patent by the
failure of a patentee to pay a renewal fee required by British
law would shorten the term of his patent here. Bate Refrigerating Co. v. Hammond, 129 U. S. 151; Pohl v. Anchor Brewing Co., 134 U. S. 381; Bate Refrigerating Co. v. Sulzberger,
157 U. S. 1, 36.
5. The most important question in the case is that of infringement. Defendants are manufacturing under a patent to James
A. Horton of December 9, 1890, in the specification of which
the patentee declares that his "invention relates to that class of
machines for applying stays to the corner of boxes and box
covers, in which a rectangular mandrel is employed to support
the box or cover internally, while a reciprocating plunger, having a re~ntrant angle in its operating face, descends and bends
the stay into angular form, and presses it upon the corner of a
box body or cover while the same is supported by the mandrel."
Substitute for the word "mandrel" the "lower die or anvil" of
the Beach patent, and for " a plunger having a re~ntrant angle
in its operating face," a "clamping die having a diverging working face," and these elements of the two machines are identical.
There is also a reel attached to the frame of the machine for
carrying a continuous stay strip, a pasting mechanism consisting of a wheel rolling in a trough of water which moistens the
gummed strip, a feeding mechanism by means of which a sufficient length of the stay strip is pushed forward at each revolution, and a cutting device for severing the stay strip when it
is fed in between the opposing dies.
The blade of the cutting mechanism consists of the inner edge
of the plunger operating in connection with a portion of the
frame of the machine. As the Horton machine is only intended

HOBBS v. BEACH.
Opinion of the Court.

to apply stay strips to the exterior of a box, all the mechanism
shown in the patent which specifically relates to the turning in
of the stay strip within the box is absent. The principal difference between the two devices consists in the details of the mechanism, and in the fact that under the Beach patent the stay
strip is fed at right angles to the line of the opposing dies and
the corner joint of the box, while in the Horton machine the stay
strip is fed on a line parallel to the line of the box corner, in
other words, a back feed instead of a side feed; but they are
both alike in that they grasp the paper and project it forward
over the corner of the box when the dies are open. There is
also a dissimilarity in the fact that the lower clamping die of
the Horton machine is not movable into and out of its usual
working position, is not moved when the machine is in operation, and is made movable only for the purpose of adjustment;
but as the device is only used for the purpose of applying stay
strips to the exterior of the box corner, such movability becomes
unnecessary, or, as explained in the Beach patent, "the said anvil I is herein shown as constructed to move horizontally and
as extending through a horizontal bearing aperture a in the
frame, by which it is supported, a horizontal movement being
given to the said anvil to aid in turning in or pasting stay strips
to the inside of the box corner."
In the case of a pioneer patent like this, (and while the patent
is not a great one, we are not speaking too highly of it in calling it a pioneer in its limited field,) there would be no difficulty
in holding that these differences were immaterial, were it not
for the fact that each one of the claims is limited by the words
"substantially as described." In other words, that unless the
infringing device contains mechanism substantially such as is
described in the patentee's specification, and shown in his drawings, there can be no infringement. It was upon this point, and
upon this alone, that there appears to have been any difference
of opinion between the Circuit Court and the Court of Appeals.
While the words "substantially as described or set forth" are
not absolutely meaningless, they do not limit the patentee to
the exact mechanism described in his specification, or prevent
recovery against infringers who have adapted mechanical equivalents for such mechanism. In determining the range of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

equivalents much depends upon the question whether the machine is a primary one, or whether the patent covers some novel
feature introduced into an old machine. It is difficult to say
exactly what effect should be given to these words. In one
sense it may be said that no device can be adjudged an infringement that does not substantially correspond with the patent.
But another construction, which would limit these words to the
exact mechanism described in the patent, would be so obviously
unjust that no court could be expected to adopt it. The authorities really throw but little light upon their proper interpretation. In Seymour v. O8borne, 11 Wall. 516, it was intimated that a claim which might otherwise be held bad as
covering a function or effect, when containing the words "substantially as described," might be construed in connection with
the specification and be limited thereby; and when so construed,
might be held to be valid. So in the Corn PlanterPatent, 23
Wall. 181, 218, it was said that "this clause throws us back to
the specification for a qualification of the claim, and the several
elements of which the combination is composed." This rule,
however, is equally applicable whether these words be used or
not. While as stated in IWestingkouse v. Boyden Power Brake
Co., 170 U. S. 537, 558: "These words have been uniformly
held by us to import into the claim the particulars of the specification," it was also said in Mitchell v. Tilghiman, 19 Wall. 287,
391, that "words of such Import, if not expressed in the claim,
must be implied, else the patent in many cases would be invalid
as covering a mere function, principle or result, which is obviously forbidden by the patent law, as it would close the door
to all subsequent improvements." If these words are used, the
patentee may still prove infringement in the use of a mechanical
equivalent; if they are omitted, he is bound to prove no less.
Perhaps it would be sufficient to say that, if a doubt arose upon
the question whether the infringing machine was the mechanical
equivalent of the patent device, that doubt should be resolved
against the patentee where the claims contain the words "substantially as described or set forth."
Without determining what particular meaning, if any, should

be given to these words, we are of opinion that they are not to
be construed as limiting the patentee to the exact mechanism

HOBBS v. BEACH.
Opinion of the Court.

described; but that he is still entitled to the benefit of the doctrine of equivalents, and that it is still true, as observed in
Morley Sewing Machine Co. v. Lancaster, 129 U. S. 263, 273 :
"Where an invention is one of a primary character, and the
mechanical functions performed by the machines are, as a whole,
entirely new, all subsequent machines which employ substantially the same means to accomplish the same results are infringements," although the subsequent machine may contain
improvements in the separate mechanisms which go to make up
the machine.
The Horton machine not only accomplishes the same result
as the Beach device, but accomplishes it by the employment of
the same combination of the same elements. The mere fact
that the continuous strip is introduced between the dies from a
different direction is immaterial. The fact that the Horton device contains no mechanism for turning the strip into the inside
of the corner, merely indicates that it does not perform all the
functions of the Beach patent. But it is no less an infringement
if it performs its primary function in practically the same way.
We are not concerned with the subordinate differences in the
mechanism, least of all with the different names given by Ilorton to parts of his machine similar to the corresponding parts
in the Beach patent. As the two machines are alike in their
functions, combination and elements, it is unnecessary to go
further and inquire whether they are alike or unlike in their
details.
There seems to be no denial of defendants' infringement of
the sixth claim. Plaintiff's expert testifies that he finds "in
the defendants' machine two opposing clamping dies having diverging working faces, the upper one of which is constructed to
act with an elastic or yielding pressure to enable the die to
operate upon box corners of different thicknesses. This is the
combination referred to in the sixth claim, and it is found in
the defendants' machine." We do not find this to be denied.
Both the Circuit Court and the Court of Appeals found this
claim to have been infringed, and we accept their conclusion.
The decree of the Court of Appeals is therefore
Afirmed.
VOL. CLXxx-26

