QUEEN OF THE PACIFIC.
Statement of the Case.

statutes complained of in this case should have been stated.
Without that the court cannot apply them to the subject-matter
of litigation to determine whether or not they have violated
the Constitution or laws of the United States." See also Railroad Co. v. Rock, 4 Wall. 1 7 7 ; Parmeleev. Lawrence, 1t Wall.
36; Powell v. Brunswick County, 150 U. S. 433, and cases
cited.
The writ of error is therefore
Dismis ed.

QUEEN OF THE PACIFIC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 130.

Argued and submitted December 14, 1900.-Decided January 7, 1901.

A stipulation in a bill of lading that all claims against a steamship company, or any of the stockholders of the company, for damage to merchandise, must be presented to the company within thirty days from the date
of the bill of lading, applies, though the suit be in rem, against the steamship carrying the property covered by the bill of lading.
In the view of the facts that the loss occurred the day after the bill of lading was signed, and the shippers were notified of such loss within three
days thereafter, the stipulation was a reasonable one, and a failure to present the claim within the time limited was held a bar to recovery against
the company in personam or against the ship in rem.
The reasonableness of such notice depends upon the length of the voyage,
the time at which the loss occurred, and all the other circumstances of
the case.

THis was a joint libel by the Bancroft-Whitney Company, a
California corporation, and the firm of Hellman, Iaas & Company against the steamship, Queen of the Pacific, owned by
the Pacific Coast Steamship Company, to recover damages to
certain miscellaneous merchandise shipped April 29, 1888, at
San Francisco, to consignees at San Pedro in the State of California.
VOL. CLXXX-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

The contracts of affreightment were evidenced by bills of lading in the usual form and with the usual exception of perils of
the sea, and amongst others with the following stipulation:
"It is expressly agreed that all claims against the P. C. S. S.
Co., or any of the stockholders of said company, for damage to
or loss of any of the within merchandise, must be presented to
the company within thirty days from date hereof; and that
after thirty days from date hereof, no action, suit or proceeding,
in any court of justice, shall be brought against said P. C. S. S.
Co., or any of the stockholders thereof, for any damage to or
loss of said merchandise; and the lapse of said thirty days shall
be deemed a conclusive bar and release of all right to recover
against said company, or any of the stockholders thereof, for
any such damage or loss."
The steamship left San Francisco about two o'clock in the
afternoon of April 29, 1888, bound for the port of San Diego
and intermediate ports, having on board a cargo of general merchandise and upwards of two hundred persons. A little more
than twelve hours after she sailed, and about half past two o'clock
in the morning of the 30th, the steamer was seen to have sprung
a leak and to be taking in water through a watertight compartment known as the starboard alleyway. At this time she had
a list of from five to eight degrees to starboard, which, when
she reached Port Harford, four or five hours afterwards, had
increased to an angle of thirty degrees. When about two
hundred and fifty or three hundred yards from the wharf,
where she usually made her landing, she took the bottom in
about twenty-three feet of water, and in about twenty minutes
thereafter filled, sank and lay in a helpless condition for three
or four days. A diver, procured for that purpose, after repeated efforts, found the leak and stopped it, whereupon the
water was pumped out of the vessel, and she was towed to
San Francisco, where she arrived the next day. Her cargo
was all discharged upon the wharf, and delivery thereof tendered and accepted by the several owners, who gave the usual
average bonds. On May 19, that portion of the cargo belonging to Hellman, Hass & Company was sold by them at public
auction. No claim for damage to the merchandise was made

QUEEN OF THE PACIFIC.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the owners of the Queen prior to the sale, nor were they
invited to such sale. In short, nothing further appears to have
been done for nearly four years, though the steamer was constantly running to and from San Francisco, when on April 28,
1892, this libel was filed. Exceptions to the libel were interposed and overruled, (61 Fed. Rep. 213,) and the case subsequently went to a hearing upon libel, answers and testimony,
and resulted in a decree for the libellants for the full amount of
their claim, (78 Fed. Rep. 155,) which was affirmed by the Court
of Appeals. 94 Fed. Rep. 180. Whereupon this writ of certiorari was granted.
Mr. Thtomas B. Reed for the Pacific Coast Steamship Company.
Mr. Milton Andros for the Bancroft-Whitney Company
and others.
M . JUSTICE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The Court of Appeals in its opinion dwelt upon several propositions arising upon the pleadings and evidence, but in the
view we have taken of the case we shall find it necessary to
discuss but one, which is, in substance, that the libellants did
not, as required by the bill of lading, present to the company
their claims for damage to the merchandise within thirty days
from the date of the bills of lading, April 27 and 28, 1888.
There is no pretence of a compliance with this condition. Two
answers are made to this defence: First, that the limitation
applies only to claims against the steamship company or any of
the stockholders of said company, and not to claims against the
vessel; second, that the limitation is unreasonable.
1. The first objection is quite too technical. It virtually
assumes that there were two contracts, one with the company
and one with the ship, the vehicle of transportation owned and
employed by the company; and that while the company as to
,ll its other property is protected by the contract, as to this

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

particular property, used in carrying it out, it is not so protected. But if such be the case with respect to this particular
stipulation, must it not also be so with respect to the other stipulations in the bill of lading to which the company is a party
but not the ship? Thus, "the responsibility of said company
shall cease immediately on the delivery of the said goods from
the ship's tackles." Can it be possible that the responsibility
of the ship shall not cease at the same time? "The company
shall not be held responsible for any damage or loss resulting
from fire at sea or in port; accident to or from machinery,
boilers or steam," etc.; but shall the company be exempt and
not the ship ? "It is expressly understood that the said company shall not be liable or accountable for weight, leakage,
breakage, shrinkage, rust, etc., . . . nor for loss of specie,
bullion, etc., unless shipped under its proper title or name, and
extra freight paid thereon ;" but shall the ship be liable for all
these excepted losses notwithstanding that the company is exonerated? These questions can admit of but one answer. There
was in truth but one contract, and that was between the libellants upon the one part, and the company in its individual
capacity and as the representative of the ship, upon the other.
There is no doubt of the general proposition that restrictions
upon the liability of a common carrier, inserted by him in the
bill of lading for his own benefit and in language chosen by
himself, must be narrowly construed, still they ought not to be
wholly frittered away by an adherence to the letter of the contract in obvious disregard of its intent and spirit. It is too
clear for argument that it was the intention of the company to
require notice to be given of all claims for losses or damage to
merchandise entrusted to its care, and as such damage could
only come to it while the merchandise was upon one of its
steamers or in the process of reception or delivery, and as the
owner would have his option to sue either in ren or in personam, it could never have been contemplated that in the one
case he should be obliged to give notice and not in the other.
In either event, the money to pay for such damage must come
from the treasury of the company; and we ought not to give
such an effect to the stipulation as would enable the owner of

QUEEN OF THE PACIFIC.
Opinion of the Court.

the merchandise to avoid its operation by simply changing his
form of action. It would be almost as unreasonable to give it
this construction as to hold that it should apply if the action
were in contract, but should not apply if it were in tort. The
"claim" is in either case against the company, though the sauit
may be against its property.
2. The question of the reasonableness of the requirement is
one largely dependent upon the object of the notice and the
length of the voyage. Thus, a notice which would be perfectly
reasonable as applied to steamers making daily trips, might be
wholly unreasonable as applied to vessels engaged in a foreign
trade. Indeed, a thirty-day notice, such as is involved in this
case, would be wholly futile as applied to a steamship plying
between San Francisco and trans-Pacific ports. Notice might
also be deemed reasonable, or otherwise, according to the facts
of the particular case. Thus, if the Queen had been driven out
to sea and was not heard from for thirty days, obviously the
provision would not apply, since its enforcement might wholly
destroy the right of recovery. The question is whether under
the circumstances of the particular case the requirement be a
reasonable one or not.
The Queen was engaged in short trips and in general trade
to San Diego, doubtless delivering merchandise in different
parcels and in different quantities to large numbers of consignees at the termini, and at intermediate ports. If any damage occurred to such articles, it was of the utmost importance to
the company to have the claim made as soon as possible, while
the witnesses, who must often be sailors, difficult to find and
still more difficult to retain, might be reached, and while their
memory was fresh, that the company might then know whether
it had a defence to the claim. In case of a disaster occurring
on such voyage, it could hardly fail to be known in San Francisco within three or four days from the time the steamer left
there. As a matter of fact, the bills of lading in this case were
signed April 27 and 28; the loss occurred on April 30, and notice was mailed to the shippers on May 2. There were thus
over three weeks during which they were at liberty to make

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

inquiries, examine into the facts, and determine whether to
make claim upon the company or not.
Similar stipulations requiring notices of losses to be given to
common carriers, express companies, telegraph and insurance
companies have so often been upheld by the courts, when reasonable, that a review of the cases is quite unnecessary. Indeed,
this is not the first time that the question has been before this
court.
In Express Co. v. Caldwell, 21 Wall. 264, an agreement by
an express company that it should not be liable for any loss of
or damage to any package unless claim should be made therefor
within ninety days from its delivery to the company, was held
to be one which the company could rightfully make, since the
time for transit required only about a day. In -Lewis v.
Great Wester76 Railway Co., 5 1-. & N. 867, there was a provision in the bill of lading that no claim for damage should be
allowed, unless made within three days after the delivery of
the goods. This was held to be valid. "The company, wishing to guard against any allegation of neglect in the delivery
of goods confided to them, require that when the goods are delivered they shall be promptly examined and complaint at once
made if there is occasion for it. Such a condition is perfectly
reasonable. The law allows persons to make their own bargains
in matters of this sort."
In Goggin v. Kansas Pacife Railway Co., 12 Kansas, 416,

there was a requirement that claims for damage to live stock
should be made in writing, before or at the time the stock was
unloaded. Plaintiff alleged that he had signed the bill of lading
under protest, and also verbally notified the servants of the
company of the damage, before the cattle were unloaded from
the cars, and immediately after giving verbal notice, sought for
writing materials to make out a written notice, but before le
was able to find them, the cattle were unloaded, so that no
notice was given. A demurrer was sustained to this reply, the
court holding that his inability to procure writing materials
was no excuse for not giving notice for more than a year afterward. "The parties were competent to make the contract, and
did make it, and it must be held good, unless it is contrary to

QUEEN OF THE PACIFIC.
Opinion of the Court.

public policy."

See also Wolf v. Western Union Tel. Co., 62

Penn. St. 83.
In Adams Express Co. v. Reagan, 29 Indiana, 21, where a
package was shipped from a town in Indiana to Savannah,
Georgia, during the civil war, when transportation was much
interrupted, it was held that a condition that the carrier should
not be liable unless a claim was presented within thirty days
after shipment was unreasonable. It was put upon the ground
that the country, being in an unsettled condition, occasioning
great delays in shipments and in the transmission of mails, an
attempt to incorporate this condition into their contract was
placing it within the power of the company by a delay, which
under the circumstances would, perhaps, not have been unreasonable, to prevent any claim for loss or damage, however gross
may have been its negligence. It appeared that the plaintiff's
agent delayed shipping the property for a month or more until
Savannah was taken by the Federal troops, when he delivered
it to the company and the receipt was executed. That the case
was determined upon the particular facts is evident from the
subsequent case of United States Express Co. v. Harris, 51
Indiana, 127, in which a stipulation that the company was not
to be liable for any loss, unless the claim therefor should be
made in writing, at the office of shipment, within thirty days
from the date of said receipt, was held to be binding and valid,
though it was doubted whether the claim must be made at the
office of the company, where the property had passed into the
hands of another carrier, or might be made in such case upon
some agent or officer chargeable with the loss. The former
case was distinguished as being applicable to its own facts.
There are doubtless some cases to the contrary, where upon
the particular facts the condition was held to be unreasonable.
In 3fissouri Pacijic Railway Co. v. Ilarris,67 Texas, 166, the
requirement was that the shipper should give notice in writing
of his claim to some officer of the company, or its nearest station agent, before the cattle were removed from their place of
destination, and before they were mingled with other stock.
The shipment was from an interior town in Texas to Chicago,
the line of railway did not extend to the point of destination,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

and both parties understood that the carrier would transport
the cattle from its own road over a connecting road. It was
held that the failure of the answer to show that the carrier had
an officer or agent so situated that the contract to give notice
to such officer or agent was reasonable, was fatal on demurrer,
and that no presumption could be indulged that the carrier had
an officer near the place of destination. This case was evidently
decided upon its special facts. In another case decided by the
Supreme Court of Texas, Paciflo Express Co. v. Darnell, 6 S.
W. Rep. 765, a piece of machinery was delivered to an express
company in Texas for shipment to Baltimore. The contract
of shipment provided that the company should not be held liable for any claim arising from the contract, unless it were presented within sixty days of the date of the contract. Held, that
the failure to present the claim was not a bar to the right of
recovery, the restriction of presentment of claims without reference to the time of loss being unreasonable. The court seemed
to assume that the stipulation imposed a restriction which in
many cases would deny a right of action, and thereby permit
the carrier to contract against his negligence, which is never
allowed. The opinion seems to have gone off upon the point
that, while the notice as applied to the facts might have been
reasonable, it would be unreasonable when applied to a different state of facts. It is unnecessary to say that if, under
the circumstances of a particular case, the stipulation were
unreasonable, or worked a manifest injustice to the libellants,
we should not give it effect. All that was decided in WTestcolt
v. Fargo, 61 N. Y. 542, was that a similar limitation of thirty
days was pleaded as a condition precedent to the plaintiff's right
to recover, when it should have been set up in the answer. See
also Southern Express Co. v. Caperton, 44 Alabama, 101.
Other analogous limitations upon the common-law liability
of a carrier, not operating to restrict his liability for negligence,
have been sustained by this court, viz., exempting the carrier
from liability from losses by fire occasioned without his negligence, York Company v. Central Railroad,3 Wall. 107; Bank
of Kentucky v. Adam8 Exp. Co., 93 U. S. 174; a restriction in
value upon the property shipped, Railroad Co. v. Fralof,100

QUEEN OF THE PACIFIC.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 24 ; Hart v. Penn. Railroad Co., 112 U. S. 331; limiting
its liability upon through shipments to losses occurring upon its
own line, Railroad Co. v. Pratt,22 Wall. 123; and providing
that in the case of loss the carrier shall have the full benefit of
any insurance that may be effected upon the goods, Phwcnix
Ins. Co. v. Erie & Western Transportation Co., 117 U. S. 312.
Indeed, in Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, in an elaborate opinion by Mr. Justice Bradley, it was held by this court
that common carriers may impose almost any just and reasonable limitation upon their common-law liability, not amounting
to an exemption from the consequences of their own negligence.
The methods of transportation have changed so radically during
the century which has just closed, that it seems almost necessary to the proper protection of a carrier, in transacting the
enormous business of railway and steamship lines, that he should
have the power by just and reasonable limitations incorporated
in his contract, or brought to the attention of his shippers, to
place some restrictions upon the unlimited liability of the common law, particularly where articles of great value, such as
jewels, money, bullion, laces and precious stones, are transported
without disclosing their contents, or articles or animals of exceptional value, such as race horses, are carried without information of their character; and that persons intending to make
claims for losses should manifest their election to do so as soon
as the circumstances can by reasonable diligence be ascertained.
The law recognizes the fact that the measure of liability originally applied to a carter's wain or a waterman's hoy may often
be illy adapted to the exigencies of modern commerce.
There is no hardship to the libellants in giving effect to the
stipulation in this case. As was said of a similar condition in
Express Co. v. Caldwell, 21 Wall. 264, 268: "It contravenes no
public policy. It excuses no negligence. It is perfectly consistent with holding the carrier to the fullest measure of good
faith, of diligence and of capacity, which the strictest rules of
the common law ever required, and it is intrinsically just, as
applied to the present case." The loss was known to the shippers within three days after it occurred. The steamer was then
and continued to be in port, and the facts were easily ascer-

OCTO1ER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

tainable. Under the stipulation the company had a right to
assume that the proper inquiries had been made, and that the
shippers were either satisfied that the company was not liable,
or that they had elected to rely upon their policies of insurance.
Instead of giving notice libellants permitted four years to elapse
before beginning suit, although both the ship and the company
were readily accessible. True, the Court of Appeals found
there was no change of circumstances and no loss of testimony
in the mean time ; but that is not material. The question concerns the binding effect of the stipulation. Bad the ship been
transferred to a bonafide purchaser there certainly would have
been, had the witnesses whose testimony could explain the loss
have disappeared, there probably would have been, laches,
which would render the claim stale, irrespective of the stipulation; but the stipulation itself would be invalid only upon showing that under the circumnstances of the particular case its
enforcement would work a manifest injustice. In this view it
is unnecessary to consider whether the limitation of thirty days
for the commencement of suit be reasonable or not.
We are of opinion that the clause in question was perfectly
reasonable, and the decree of the Court of Appeals must therefore be
R eversed, and the case remanded to the District Courtfor the
Northern Districtof California with directions to dismiss
the libel.

