OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

THOMPSON v. LOS ANGELES FARMING AND MILLING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 87. Argued and submitted November 8, 1900.-Decided January 7, 1901.
The papers offered in evidence in this case, instead of showing the non-existence of special circumstances with reference to the sale to de Celis which
authorized the governor to make it, affirm the existence of those circumstances, and the condition of the plaintiff in error is reduced to this di-

lemma: -the papers being ruled out, the validity of the grant will be implied: -the papers being ruled in, the validity of the grant will be shown.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.Mr. 11arvey X. Friendfor plaintiffs in error.
31r. Stephien X.A While and .Mr. James H. Shaniland for defendant in error submitted on their brief.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejeetment in which defendant in error
was plaintiff in the court below, and the plaintiffs in error were
defendants. It was brought in the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, State of California. Besides a prayer for the
recovery of the land in controversy an injunction was asked
against the commission or repetition of certain described trespasses. The land sued for was the south half of the Rancho
ex-Mission de San Fernando, with certain exceptions. The defendant in error relied for title upon a patent of the United
States to Eulogio de Celis, dated January 8, 1875, which recited
that it was based upon the confirmation of his title as one derived from the Mexican government through a deed of grant
made the 17th day of June, 1846, by Pio Pico, the then constitutional governor of the department of the Californias. The
grantor of defendant in error purchased an undivided half of

THOMPSON v. LOS ANGELES FARMING &c. CO.

73

Opinion of the Court.

the rancho in 1869, and became the owner in severalty of the
tract sued for by partition proceedings.
One of the defences of the action, and the only one we are
concerned with on this writ of error, was the invalidity of the
patent based on the invalidity of the grant from the Mexican
government, and its confirmation by the Board of Land Commissioners.
The answer sets out the proceedings before the board, its
decision and decree, and the deed of Pio Pico. As much of the
deed as is necessary to quote is as follows:
"The undersigned, constitutional governor of the department
of the Californias, in virtue of the powers vested unto him by
the supreme government of the nation, and in virtue of a decree
of the honorable departmental assembly of April third of the
present year, to raise means for the purpose of maintaining the
integrity of the territory of this department, for the sum of
fourteen thousand dollars, which he receives, sells unto Don
Eulogio de Celis and his heirs, ex-Mission of San Fernando with
all its properties, estates, lands and movables, with the exception of the church and all its appurtenances, which remains for
public use. Said purchaser obligating himself to maintain on
their lands the old Indians on the premises during their lifetime,
with the right to make their crops, with the only condition
that they shall not have the right to sell the lands they cultivate and any other which they possess without anterior title
from the departmental government, for all of which the aforesaid Senor Celis shall be acknowledged as the legitimate owner
of the aforesaid ex-Mission of San Fernando, to use the same
as to him shall seem best, guaranteeing unto him, as this government does guarantee, that he is well possessed of the aforesaid
estate with all the prerogatives granted by law to purchasers,
with the only condition that the above mentioned purchaser
shall not take possession within the space of eight months from
the date hereof, within which delay the government shall have
the right to annul this contract by reimbursing to the aforesaid
Senor Celis the sum of fourteen thousand dollars with interest
at the current commercial rates; but if this reimbursement is
not operated within the aforesaid eight months, this sale shall
be valid."

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

The petition to the board was as follows:
"Before the commissioners to ascertain and settle private land
claims in the State of California.
"Eulogio do Celis gives notice that he claims a tract of land
situated in the present county of Los Angeles, known by the
name of Mission of San Fernando, bounded as follows: On the
north by the rancho of San Francisco, on the west by the mountains of Santa Susanna, on the east by the rancho of Miguel
Triumfo, and on the south by the mountains of Portesuelo,
which tract is supposed to contain fourteen square leagues.
"Said land was sold to said Celis by a deed of grant dated
the seventeenth day of June of the year eighteen hundred and
forty-six, by Pio Pico, constitutional governor of the Californias,
thereto duly authorized by the supreme government of the nation and by a decree of the departmental assembly of April third,
eighteen hundred and forty-six; said sale was made for the sum
of fourteen thousand dollars, which was paid by the said Celis
to the said Pio Pico, who acknowledged the receipt thereof, as
will more fully appear by reference to the aforesaid deed of
grant, copy whereof marked A is hereto annexed.
"Claimant avers that the aforesaid deed of sale contains the
condition that the government of Mexico shall have the right
to annul the contract by reimbursing to this claimant the aforesaid sun of fourteen thousand dollars, with the current rates of
interest, and in case said sum is not reimbursed within said eight
months, said Mission of San Fernando shall be his in full property. And this clairriant avers that said sum of fourteen thousand dollars was never reimbursed to him by the Mexican government, or by any person whatsoever.
"Said Mission of San Fernando was leased by the governeminent of Mexico to Andres Pioe in December, 1845, for the
term of years, which lessee has been in the occupancy of
the said property up to the present date.
"Claimant further avers that he knows of no other claim to
the aforesaid mission, and he relies on the documents above
referred to and witnesses he shall produce to substantiate his
claim."

THOMPSON v. LOS ANGELES FARMING &c. CO.

75

Opinion of the Court.

The material part of the decision was as follows:
"The grant purports to have been made in consideration of
the payment of the sum of fourteen thousand dollars in money.
Pio Pico testifies that he executed the grant at the date that
the same bears, and that it was made under special instructions
of his government for the purpose of raising the necessary funds
to enable the department to prepare for a defence against the
attack of the Americans, and that the sum of fourteen thousand
dollars was actually received by him from the grantee in consideration thereof, and that the funds were used by him for the
benefit of the nation in the defence of the same. The genuineness of the grant is clearly established and the circumstances
under which it was made so clearly explained as to leave no
doubt but it was done in good faith."
A decree was entered confirming the grant.
The title based on the proceedings before the commissioners
is alleged in the several answers to be invalid for the following
reasons:

"I. Because, as appears on its face, it was a deed of sale
whereby said Pio Pico, governor of California, attempted, for
the consideration of $14,000, to grant the land, therein men-

tioned to said Eulogio de Celis, which act was Wira vires, unauthorized by and in violation of the laws of the republic of
MIexico.
"II. Because the lands so attempted to be granted were lands
embraced within and belonging to the Mission of San Fernando,
and not legally subject to the granting power of said governor.
"This defendant further says in this behalf that said ' commissioners to ascertain and settle the private land claims in the
State of California,' never had any jurisdiction over the subjectmatter of said claim of said Eulogio de Celis, otherwise called
Eulogio Celis, because he says that it was set out and appeared
on the face of the notice and petition of said Eulogio Celis and
accompanying documents, to wit, the alleged grant itself, that
at the time of the making of said alleged grant the lands embraced therein were mission lands, and also that said so-called
grant was in the nature of a sale for money, and that said grant
was therefore without authority of law and void, and did not

OCTOI3ER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

constitute a claim by virtue of any right or title derived from
the Spanish or Mexican government.
"And defendant says that because of the facts so set out and
shown in said notice and petition and accompanying documents
so filed with said commissioners by said Eulogio de Celts, said
commissioners were wholly without jurisdiction to adjudicate
upon or to confirm said claim, and that their said decree of
confirmation thereof is and always was ultra vires and utterly
void, and that all subsequent proceedings based thereon, including the survey and patenting of said lands by the United States
Government, were and are wholly without authority of law and
void."
The defendant in error obtained judgment in the trial court,
which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. 117
California, 594. Thereupon the Chief Justice of the State allowed this writ of error.
The error assigned is as to the action of the trial court in excluding testimony which it is claimed tended to support the
said defence.
To support the assignment of error it is urged that the governor of the Californias had no authority to make the grant, "and
therefore the decree of confirmation was without that authority
of law, and was also absolutely void and a mere nullity." And
it is hence further contended that the patent based on and reciting the decree was void on its face. The ultimate basis of the
contention is that the Court of Private Land Claims had no
jurisdiction to confirm the grant because the governor of the
Californias had no power to convey the public land for a money
consideration. That is to say, the grant being void it could
not be the basis of a claim to lands "by virtue of any right or
title derived from the Spanish or Mexican government." This
conclusion is attempted to be deduced from the words of section 8 of the act of Congress of March 3, 1851, 9 Stat. 631, c.
41, creating the Board of Land Commissioners. The section
provided"That each and every person claiming lands in California by
virtue of any right or title derivedfrom the Spanish or Mexican
government shall present the same to said commissioners when

THOMPSON v. LOS ANGELES FARMING &c. CO.

77

Opinion of the Court.

sitting as a board, together with such documentary evidence
and testimony of witnesses as the said claimant relies upon in
support of such claims; and it shall be the duty of the commissioners when the case is ready for hearing to proceed promptly
to examine the same upon such evidence and upon the evidence
produced in behalf of the United States, and to decide upon the
validity of the said claims."
We think that counsel put too limited a signification on the
words of section 8, that the claim shall be "by virtue of any
right or title derived from the Spanish or Mexican government."
The words of course were descriptive of the class of claims of
which the Board of Land Commissioners was given jurisdiction.
They made a special tribunal of the board limited to hear a particular class of claims, but not limited to the questions of law
and fact which could arise in passing on and determining the
validity of any claim of the class. The power to consider whatever was necessary to the validity of the claim-propositions of
law or propositions of fact-the fact of a grant, or the power to
grant, was conferred. If there should be a wrong decision the
remedy was not by a collateral attack on the judgment rendered. The statute provided the remedy. It allowed an appeal
to the District Court of the United States, and from thence to
this court. Legal procedure could not afford any better safeguards against error. Every question which could arise on the
title claimed could come to and receive judgment from this
court. The scheme of adjudication was made complete and all
the purposes of an act to give repose to titles were accomplished.
And it was certainly the purpose of the act of 1851 to give repose to titles. It was enacted not only to fulfil our treaty obligations to individuals, but to settle and define what portion of
the acquired territory was public domain. It not only permitted
but required all claims to be presented to the board, and barred
all from future assertion which were not presented within two
years after the date of the act. Sec. 13. The jurisdiction of
the board was necessarily commensurate with the purposes
of its creation, and it was a jurisdiction to decide rightly or
wrongly. If wrongly a corrective was afforded, as we have said,
by an appeal by the claimant or by the United States to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

District Court. Sec. 9. Indeed, the proceedings in the District Court were really new, and further evidence could be
taken. Sec. 10. Upon the confirmation of the claim by the
commissioners or by the District or Supreme Court, a patent
was to issue and be conclusive against the United States.
Sec. 15.
Further general discussion we do not think is necessary.
This court has had occasion heretofore to consider the statute
and the jurisdiction of the Board of Land Commissioners.
Beard v. Federy, 3 Wall. 478; 2 fore v. Steinbaek, 127 U. S.70.
In considering what was involved in the inquiry into the
validity of a claim to land under the act, this court said in
ikiore v. Seinbacke, quoting United States v. Fossatt, 21 How.
445:
"It is obvious that the answer to this question must depend
in a great measure upon the state and condition of the evidence.
It may present questions of the genuineness and authenticity
of the title, and whether the evidence is forged or fraudulent;
or it may involve an inquiry into the authority of the ofleer to
make a grant, or whether he was in the exercise of the faculties
of his 01ice when it was made. . .
The plaintiff in iore v. Steinback depended upon a patent of
the United States issued to one Manuel Antonio Rodrigues do
Poll, dated August 24, 1864. It recited the proceedings taken
before the Land Commissioners under the act of March 3, 1851;
the filing of his petition in March, 1852, asking for the con.firmation of his title to a tract of land known as the Mission
of San Buena Ventura, his claim being founded upon a sale
made on the 8th of June, 1846, by the then governor of the
department of the Californias; the affirmation of the decree
successively by the District Court of the Southern District of
California, and by the Supreme Court of the United States,
and the survey of the claim confirmed. It was contended that
the sale to Poli of the ex-Mission San Buena Ventura was illegal and void, and hence no title passed to the patentee on its
confirmation, and in support of the contention, United States v.
Workman, 1 Wall. 745, was cited.
Replying to the contention, the court said by Mr. Justice
Field:

THOMPSON v. LOS ANGELES FARMING &c. CO.

79

Opinion of the Court.

"In that case ( United States v. Workman) it was held that
the departmental assembly of California had no power to
authorize the governor to alienate any public lands of the department, and that its own power was restricted to that conferred by the laws of colonization, which was simply to approve
or disapprove of the grants made by the governor under those
laws. But it does not follow that there were not exceptional
circumstances with reference to the sale to Poli, which authorized the governor to make it. We are bound to suppose that
such was the case, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, from the fact that the validity of his claim under it was
confirmed by the Board of Land Commissioners, by the District Court of the United States, and by this court on appeal.
The question of its validity was thereby forever closed, except
as against those who might be able to show a prior and better
title to the premises."
More fully on the point of the effect of the patent it was said
in Beard v. Federy :
"This instrument is, therefore, record evidence of the action
of the government upon the title of the claimant. By it the
government declares that the claim asserted was valid under
the laws of Mexico; that it was entitled to recognition and protection by the stipulations of the treaty, and might have been
located under the former government, and is correctly located
now, so as to embrace the premises as they are surveyed and
described. As against the government this record, so long as
it remains unvacated, is conclusive. And it is equally conclusive against parties claiming under the government by title
subsequent. It is in this effect of the patent as a record of the
government that its security and protection chiefly lie. If parties asserting interest in lands acquired since the acquisition of
the country could deny and controvert this record, and compel
the patentee, in every suit for his land, to establish the validity of his claim, his right to its confirmation, and the correctness of the action of the tribunals and officers of the United
States in the location of the same, the patent would fail to be,
as it was intended it should be, an instrument of quiet and security to its possessor. The patentee would find his title recog-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

nized in one suit and rejected in another, and if his title were
maintained, he would find his land located in as many different
places as the varying prejudices, interests, or notions of justice
of witnesses and jurymen might suggest. Every fact upon
which the decree and patent rest would be opened to contestation. The intruder, resting solely upon his possession, might
insist that the original claim was invalid, or was not properly
located, and therefore he could not be disturbed by the patentee.
No construction which will lead to such results can be given
to the fifteenth section. The term ' third persons,' as there used,
does not embrace all persons other than the United States and
the claimants, but only those who hold superior titles, such as
will enable them to resist successfully any action of the government in disposing of the property.'
Plaintiffs in error deny the applicability of Beard v. Federy
to the case at bar. We think it is applicable. They attempt
to distinguish More v. Steinbac. We think it cannot be distinguished. That case, it is said, depended upon the possible
presence of "exceptional circumstances with reference to the
sale to Poli which authorized the governor to make it (the
grant)." And it hence contended that the court felt itself" bound
to suppose such was the case in tke absence of any evidence to
the contrary. And taking for granted," counsel further say,
"as it had to do, the jurisdiction of the board of commissioners
that confirmed the Poli claim, the court could reach no other
conclusion. But the very thing which this court was compelled
to assume in the case of the Poli claim (namely, the jurisdiction of the land commissioners), for the want of evidence to the
contrary,is the thing which in this case we offered to prove in
the court below did not exist; but we were denied that privilege, and this denial we insist was error."
But how was it attempted to be shown that such jurisdiction
did not exist?. It was attempted to be shown, as declared in
the assignment of error, by " the petition of said de Celis before the board of land commissioners for the confirmation of
his claim to the land, together with copies of the grant from
Governor Pico to him, and the decision of confirmation by the
board."

GUSMAN v. MARRERO.
Syllabus.

There is nothing in either of those papers which show that
exceptional circumstances with reference to the sale to de Celis
did not exist. The petition makes a claim of title based on "a
deed of grant dated the seventeenth day of June of the year
eighteen hundred and forty-six, by Pio Pico, constitutional governor of the Californias, thereto duly authorized by the supreme
government of the nation and by a decree of the departmental
assembly of April third, eighteen hundred and forty-six."
The decision of the board recites that Pio Pico testified that
he had special instructions from his government to make the
grant, and the decision further recites that "the genuineness of
the grant is clearly established and the circumstances under
which it was made so clearly explained as to leave no doubt but
it was done in good faith."
The papers offered in evidence therefore, instead of showing
the non-existence of special circumstances with reference to the
sale to de Celis, which authorized the governor to make it, affirm the existence of those circumstances, and the contention
of plaintiffs in error is reduced to this dilemma: The papers ruled
out, the validity of the grant will be implied. The papers ruled
in, the validity of the grant will be shown.
Judgment afjrmed.

GUSMAN v. MARRERO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF
LOUISIANA.
No.223. Submitted December 3,1900.-Decided January 7, 1901.

The purpose of the proceeding in this case was to deliver from the custody
of the sheriff of the parish of Jefferson, Louisiana, a person who was
under sentence of death for the crime of assault with intent to commit
rape, of which he was convicted. The contention of the appellee was
that this was not an application for habeas corpus, nor for a writ of mandamus, but was an ordinary action. The appellant not only concedes
the fact, but asserts it. It follows necessarily that he has no cause of
action. The same result would follow if the court regarded the proceeding as one in habeas corpus.
yOL. CLXXX-6

