MINNESOTA v. BRUNDAGE.

499

Opinion of the Court.

MINNESOTA v. BRUNDAGE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 159. Argued February 28, 1901. -Decided

March 18, 1901.

The principle reaffirmed that when the petitioner is in custody by state
authority for an act done or omitted to be done in pursuance of a law of
the United States, or of an order, process or decree of a court or judge
thereof; or where, being a subject or citizen of a foreign State, and domiciled therein, he is in custody, under like authority, for an act done or
omitted under an alleged right, title, authority, privilege, protection or
exemption claimed under the commission, or order, or sanction of any
foreign State, or under color thereof, the validity and effect whereof
depend upon the law of nations; in such and like cases of urgency, involving the authority and operations of the General Government, or the
obligations of this country to, or its relations with, foreign nations, the
courts of the United States have frequently interposed by writs of habeas
corpus and discharged prisoners who were held in custody under state
authority; so, also, when they are in the custody of a state officer, it may
be necessary, by use of the writ, to bring them into a court of the United
States to testify as witnesses.
But the power of the Federal court upon habeas corpus to discharge one
held in custody by state officers or tribunals in violation of the Constitution of the United States ought not to be exercised in every case immediately upon application being made for the writ. Except in cases of
emergency, such as are above defined, the applicant should be required
to exhaust such remedies as the State gives to test the question of the
legality, under the Constitution of the United States, of his detention in
custody.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. W. B. Douglas for appellant.

Mr. William D. Guthrie for appellee.
was on his brief.

.r.

Albert H. Veeder

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee Brundage was arrested under a warrant issued

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

by the Municipal Court of Minneapolis, Minnesota, upon the
complaint under oath of the Inspector of the State Dairy and
Food Department of that State charging him with having violated a statute of Minnesota approved April 19, 1899, entitled
"An act to prevent fraud in the sale of dairy products, their
imitations or substitutes, to prohibit and prevent the manufacture or sale of unhealthy or adulterated dairy products, and to
preserve the public health." Gen. Laws, Minnesota, 1899, c. 295.
The specific offence charged was that the accused, in the
county of Hennepin, Minnesota, "did wilfully, unlawfully and
wrongfully offer and expose for sale, and have in his possession
with intent to sell, a quantity of a certain compound designed
to take the place of butter, and made in part from animal and
vegetable oils and fats not produced from milk or cream, said
compound being an article commonly known as oleomargarine,
and being then and there colored with a coloring matter whereby
the said article and compound was made to resemble butter,
contrary to the statutes in such case made and provided, and
against the peace and dignity of the State of Minnesota."
Ile was adjudged to be guilty and to pay a fine of twentyfive dollars and costs, or in default thereof to be committed to
the workhouse to undergo hard labor for thirty days, unless he
sooner paid the fine and costs or was thence discharged by due
course of law.
Having been taken into custody in execution of the judgment,
Brundage presented his application to the Circuit Court of the
United States for a writ of habeas corpus, alleging that he was
restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution of the
United States. That court held the statute to be unconstitutional and discharged the accused from the custody of the state
authorities.
The State insists, upon this appeal, that the statute, at least
in the particulars applicable to this case, was consistent with
the Constitution of the United States.
This question is one of great importance, but we do not deem
it necessary now to consider it; for in our opinion the Circuit
Court should have denied the application for the writ of habeas
corpus, without prejudice to a renewal of the same after the

MINNESOTA v. BRUNDAGE.
Opinion of the Court.

accused had availed himself of such remedies as the laws of the
State afforded for a review of the judgment in the state court
of which he complains.
We have held, upon full consideration, that although under
existing statutes a Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction upon habeas corpus to discharge from the custody of
state officers or tribunals one restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution of the United States, it is not required
in every case to exercise its power to that end immediately
upon application being made for the writ. "We cannot suppose," this court has said, E parte Royall, " that Congress
intended to compel those courts, by such means, to draw to themselves, in the first instance, the control of all criminal prosecutions commenced in state courts exercising authority within the
same territorial limits, where the accused claims that he is held
in custody in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
The injunction to hear the case summarily, and thereupon ' to
dispose of the party as law and justice require,' (R. S. ยง 761,)
does not deprive the court of discretion as to the time and mode
in which it will exert the powers conferred upon it. That discretion should be exercised in the light of the relations existing,
under our system of government, between the judicial tribunals
of the Union and of the State, and in recognition of the fact
that the public good requires that those relations be not disturbed by unnecessary conflict between courts equally bound to
guard and protect rights secured by the Constitution. When
the petitioner is in custody by state authority for an act done
or omitted to be done in pursuance of a law of the United
States, or of an order, process or decree of a court or judge
thereof ; or where, being a subject or citizen of a foreign State,
and domiciled therein, he is in custody, under like authority,
for an act done or omitted under an alleged right, title, authority, privilege, protection or exemption claimed under the
commission, or order, or sanction of any foreign State, or under
color thereof, the validity and effect whereof depend upon the
law of nations; in such and like cases of urgency, involving the
authority and operations of the General Government, or the
obligations of this country to, or its relations with, foreign na-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

tions, the courts of the United States have frequently interposed
by writs of habeas corpus and discharged prisoners who were
held in custody under state authority. So, also, when they are
in the custody of a state officer, it may be necessary, by use of
the writ, to bring them into a court of the United States to testify as witnesses." Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241, 251; Ex
parte Fonda, 117 U. S. 516, 518; In re Duncan, 139 U. S. 449,
454; In re Wood, 140 U. S. 278, 289; McElvaine v. Brush,
142 U. S. 155, 160; Cook v. Hart, 146 U. S. 183, 194; _n re
Frederick, 149 U. S. 70, 75; New York v. Eno, 155 U. S. 89,
96; Pepke v. Cionan,155 U. S. 100; In re Chapman, 156 U. S.
211, 216; Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231, 242; lasigi v.
Van De Carr, 166 U. S. 391, 395; Baker v. Grice, 169 U. S.
284, 290; Tinsley v. Anderson, 171 U. S. 101, 105; Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516, 533; Aarkuson v. Boucher, 175 U. S. 184.
There are cases that come within the exceptions to the general rule. In Loney's case, 134 U. S. 372, 375, it appeared that
Loney was held in custody by the state authorities under a
charge of perjury committed in giving his deposition as a witness before a notary public in Richmond, Virginia, in the case
of a contested election of a member of the House of Representatives of the United States. He was discharged upon a writ
of habeas corpus sued out from the Circuit Court of the United
States, this court saying: "The power of punishing a witness
for testifying falsely in a judicial proceeding belongs peculiarly
to the government in whose tribunals that proceeding is had.
It is essential to the impartial and efficient administration of
justice in the tribunals of the nation, that witnesses should be
able to testify freely before them, unrestrained by legislation of
the State, or by fear of punishment in the state courts. The
administration of justice in the national tribunals would be
greatly embarrassed and impeded if a witness testifying before
a court of the United States, or upon a contested election of a
member of Congress, were liable to prosecution and punishment
in the courts of the State upon a charge of perjury, preferred
by a disappointed suitor or contestant, or instigated by local
passion or prejudice." So, in Ohio v. Diohmas, 173 U. S. 276,
284-5, which was the case of the arrest of the acting governor

MINNESOTA v. BRUNDAGE.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Central Branch of the National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, at Dayton, Ohio, upon a charge of violating a
law of that State, the action of the Circuit Court of the United
States discharging him upon habeas corpus, while in custody of
the state authorities, was upheld upon the ground that the state
court had no jurisdiction in the premises, and because the accused, being a Federal officer, "may, upon conviction be imprisoned as a means of enforcing the sentence of a fine, and thus
the operations of the Federal Government might in the meantime be obstructed." The exception to the general rule was
further illustrated in Boske v. (omingore, 177 U. S. 459, 466-7,
in which the applicant for the writ of habeas corpus was discharged by the Circuit Court of the United States, while held
by state officers, this court saying : "The present case was one
of urgency, in that the appellee was an officer in the revenue
service of the United States whose presence at his post of duty
was important to the public interests, and whose detention in
prison by the state authorities might have interfered with the
regular and orderly course of the business of the department to
which he belonged."
The present case does not come within any of the exceptions
to the general rule announced in the cases above cited. It is
not, in any legal view, one of urgency. The accused does not,
in his application, state any reason why he should not be required to bring the question involved in the prosecution against
him before a higher court of the State and invoke its power to
discharge him if in its judgment he is restrained of his liberty
in violation of the Constitution of the United States. It cannot be assumed that the state court will hesitate to enforce any
rights secured to him. by that instrument; for upon them
equally with the courts of the Union rests the duty to maintain the supreme law of the land. Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S.
624, 637. If the state court declined to recognize the Federal
right, specially claimed by the accused, the case could be
brought here for review.
After observing that the questions of constitutional law arising in this case had been determined in Schollenbergerv. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1, and Conlils v. New Hampshire,171 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

30, adversely to the present contention of the State, and that
there was jurisdiction to discharge the petitioner on habeas corpus, the Circuit Court said: "Even then, for reasons of comity,
such power will seldom be exercised by the Circuit Court to
discharge a petitioner held under process from a state court,
even after conviction by the trial court, unless large interests
affecting the business of many or the rights of the public are so
involved that serious consequences will follow from the delay
which will be caused by the prosecution of a writ of error to a
final decision, or unless the question has already been decided
by the Supreme Court of the United States, whose decision the
state court has disregarded in the proceeding. State statutes
prohibiting the importation from other States and sale of articles of commerce, especially articles of food, or adapted for general use, are regarded as affecting general interests and the
rights of the public; and habeas corpus has frequently been
resorted to in cases of imprisonment for violation of such statutes." In re Brundage, 96 Fed. Rep. 963, 969.
Among the cases cited in support of the action of the Circuit
Court are Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313, and Plumley v.
Massachusetts, 155 IT. S. 461. It must be admitted that in the
first named case the general rule announced in prior and subsequent cases was not applied. The reasons for not then applying it do not appear from the opinion of the court. It may be
that the precise point now under examination was not called to
its attention. Plumley v. Massachusetts is not in point, for it
came to this court upon writ of error to the highest court of
Massachusetts.
It is undoubtedly true that the state enactment in question
may in its operation affect the business of many, and in some
degree, but indirectly, the rights of the public; but that consideration is not sufficient to justify such interference by the
Federal court as will interrupt the orderly course of proceedings in the state court. We do not think that the exercise by
a Federal court of its power upon habeas corpus to discharge
one held in custody by the state authorities and charged with
a violation of a state enactment should be materially controlled by any consideration of the extent of particular business

MINNESOTA v. BRUNDAGE.
Opinion of the Court.

interests that may be affected by a prosecution instituted in a
state tribunal against him, or of the indirect effect of his detention in custody upon the rights of the general public. Nor
do we think that the Circuit Court should have interfered with
the custody of the appellee because in its opinion the action of
the Municipal Court of Minneapolis was inconsistent with the
judgments of this court in the Schollenberger and Collins cases.
Upon that question the state court was entitled to form its own
opinion, and give judgment accordingly. Whether, in view of
the judgments in the Schollenbergei' and Collins cases, the state
court should have held the Minnesota statute to be repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States, it is not necessary
now to say. Besides the record does not show that the attention of the Municipal Court of Minneapolis was called to those
cases; much less is there any reason to suppose that it deliberately refused to accept the decisions of this court as controlling
upon questions arising under the Constitution of the United
States. As disclosed by the record, the case, we repeat, is not
one of urgency within the meaning of our decisions, and does
not suggest any adequate reason why the appellee should not
be required, before applying to the Circuit Court of the United
States to be discharged upon habeas corpus, to seek at the hands
of the higher courts of the State a reversal of the judgment rendered against him in the Municipal Court of Minneapolis.
Without expressing any opinion as to the validity of the
Minnesota statute, the judgment of the Circuit Court must be
reversed, with directions to dismiss the application for a writ of
habeas corpus, without prejudice to a renewal of it when the
appellee shall have exhausted the remedies provided by the
State for a review of the judgment of the Municipal Court of
Minneapolis.
Reversed.

