OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

water supply. These rates were adhered to until, under the authority of the statute of the State of Illinois passed in 1891, referred to in the opinion in the Freeport case, the defendant in
error reduced the rates below the contract price. It now asserts in this record that it possessed the power to do so.
For the reasons stated by me for dissenting from the opinion
and decree in the Freeport case, I dissent from the opinion and
decree in the present case.

ROGERS PARK WATER COMPANY v. FERGUS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 56. Argued and submitted October 31, 1900.-Decided March 25, 1901.

So far as the contentions in this case are the same as those passed upon in
FreeportWater Company v. Freeport City, ante, 587, and in Danville Water
Company v. Danville City, ante, 619, they are governed by those cases.
A governmental function in a statute granting powers to a municipal corporation cannot be held to have been granted away by statutory provisions
which are doubtful or ambiguous.
There is no complaint in this case that the rates fixed by the ordinance of
1897, passed by the city council of Chicago, were unreasonable; and as
the plaintiff in error relies strictly on a contractual right, and as it has
no such right, the judgment below is affirmed.

Tuis is a petition for a writ of mandamus which was brought
by the defendant in error on the 13th of December, 1897, in
the circuit court of Cook County, State of Illinois, against the
plaintiff in error, to compel it to furnish him water at rates fixed
by an ordinance enacted by the city of Chicago.
The defence is that such ordinance impairs the obligation of
the contract which plaintiff in error claims to have with the
village of Rogers Park before its annexation to the city of
Chicago, as hereinafter mentioned.
The village of Rogers Park was from November 12, 1888,
and until April 4, 1893, a municipal corporation organized un-

ROGERS PARK WATER COMPANY v. FERGUS.

625

Statement of the Case.

der the laws of Illinois. At the latter date it was annexed to
the city of Chicago.
The Rogers Park Water Company, plaintiff in error, was a
corporation, incorporated about the 24th of January, 1889,
under the laws of Illinois, to construct and operate a system of
waterworks in the village of Rogers Park, and to acquire such
property and exercise the powers necessary thereto.
The company constructed and operated a system of waterworks in said village, and the premises of the defendant in error
were connected thereto and supplied with water therefrom.
The rates for such water under the ordinance of the city of
Chicago were $8.72, payable in advance, for the current half
year, from November 1, 1897, to May 1, 1898. Those rates
were tendered to the company, and a supply of water demanded
of it. The company refused to comply, demanding $13.50 for
such supply, claiming that sum under section 12 of an ordinance
of the village of Rogers Park before its annexation to Chicago,
and which ordinance empowered the construction of the waterworks system.
The contract, which plaintiff in error claims, is based on that
ordinance. It was passed November 12, 1888, and was entitled
"An ordinance to provide for a supply of water to the village
of Rogers Park, Ill., and its inhabitants, contracting with H. E.
Keeler, his successors and assigns, for a supply of water for
public use, and giving the said village of Rogers Park, Ill., an
option to purchase the said works."
It was provided that in consideration of the public benefit
to be derived therefrom the village of Rogers Park, Illinois,
granted the exclusive right and privilege for a period of thirty
years from the time the ordinance should take effect "unto
H. E. Keeler, his successor and assigns, of erecting, maintaining and operating a system of waterworks in accordance with
the terms and provisions" of the ordinance. There was a grant
of the use of the streets and alleys for mains and conduits, and
power given to extend the system to new territory, if any
should be acquired by the village. There were provisions prescribing the character of the system to be constructed, and that
the village should pay "an annual rental for fire protection, for
VOL. CLxxx-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

less than five miles of mains within the corporate limits of said
village, for the aforesaid period of thirty years, at the rental
rate of five hundred and seventy-five ($575) dollars for each mile
of main, to be payable semi-annually." There were also provisions for payment of taxes by the company, the flushing of
sewers, and the maintenance of fountains, for the supply of
water to the inhabitants, the quality of water and the manner
of the supply before prescribed, and for the acceptance in writing by the company of the terms of the ordinance. Provision
was also made for the purchase of the system by the village.
Section 12 was as follows:
"The said grantee or assigns shall charge the following annual water rates to consumers of water during the existence of
this franchise, and they shall have the right at any time to
insert a water meter into the service pipe of any consumer and
to charge and collect from him at meter rates, provided that in
such case the minimum annual rate paid by any one consumer
shall be five dollars."
Then follow the rates for the particular purpose for which
the water might be used.
Section 13 provided for the levy of a tax to meet the payments stipulated by the ordinance, which should be irrepealable.
Section 14 was as follows:
"Within sixty days after the passage of this ordinance said
H. E. Keeler, his successors and assigns, shall file with the village an acceptance of the same, which acceptance, duly acknowledged before some officer duly authorized to administer oaths,
shall have the effect of a contract between the village and said
H. E. Keeler, his successors or assigns."
The plaintiff in error is the assignee of Keeler.
The plaintiff in error claimed in its answer that said ordinance of the village of Rogers Park constituted a contract with
plaintiff in error by which it had the right to charge the rates
contained in section 12, and that the ordinance of the city of
Chicago reducing their rates impaired such contract and violated not only the constitution of the State of Illinois, but also

ROGERS PARK WATER COMPANY v. FERGUS.

627

Opinion of the Court.

violated section 10, article 1 of the Constitution of the United
States, as well as the Fourteenth Amendment.
One of the defences of the plaintiff in error was that the premises of defendant in error were connected with the system by
reason of his written application, which application was accepted
and became a contract. That defence, however, is not made in
this court, and further reference to it is omitted.
There was a demurrer filed to the answer of the plaintiff in
error, which set up its defences under the Constitution of the
United States. The demurrer was sustained. Certain issues of
fact were made on other pleadings, upon which there was a trial
by jury, resulting in a verdict for petitioner and judgment on
the verdict. The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State, 178 Illinois, 571, and this writ of error was sued
out. The assignments of error present constitutional questions
only.

Mr. Newton A. Partridgefor plaintiff in error.
Mr. Jeese B. Barton,for defendant in error, submitted on his
brief.
MR. JUSTICE MoKENNA, after making the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
At the time of the passage of the ordinance in November,
1888, by the village of Rogers Park, counsel for plaintiff in
error says "two general acts were in force in Illinois, which
related to the power of municipalities to pass ordinances for
waterworks to be built and operated by private enterprise."
The first is as follows:
"An act entitled 'An act to enable cities, incorporated towns
and villages to contract for a supply of water for public use,
and to levy and collect a tax to pay for the water so supplied.'
Approved April 9, 1872." In force July 1, 1872. Laws, 18712, p. 271. This title is as amended by act approved June 26,
1885, in force July 1, 1885, p. 64.
"SEc. 1. Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

represented in the General Assembly, That in all cities, incor
porated towns and villages where waterworks have been or may
hereafter be constructed by any person or incorporated company, the city, town or village authorities in such cities, incorporated towns and villages may contract with such person or
incorporated company for a supply of water for public use for
a period not exceeding thirty years." As amended by act approved June 26, 1885. In force July 1, 1885, Laws, 1885, p. 64.
"SEc. 2. Any such city or village so contracting may levy and
collect a tax on all taxable property within such city or village
to pay for the water so supplied."
The second, passed one day later and taking effect on the
same day as the first, was the cities, villages and towns act.
The title to that act and the article and section bearing upon
this case are as follows:
"An act entitled 'An act to provide for the incorporation of
cities and villages.' Approved April 10, 1872. In force
July 1, 1872. Laws of 1871-2, p. 218.
"Article X, Section 1. The city council or board of trustees
shall have the power to provide for a supply of water by the
boring and sinking of Artesian wells, or by the construction and
regulation of wells, pumps, cisterns, reservoirs or waterworks,
and to borrow money therefor, and to authorize any person or
private corporation to construct and maintain the same at such
rates as may be fixed by ordinance, and for a period not to
exceed thirty years; also to prevent the unnecessary waste of
water; to prevent the pollution of the water, and injuries to
such wells, pumps, cisterns, reservoirs or waterworks."
These acts are urged to establish the power in the village of
Rogers Park to grant to the plaintiff in error the right to charge
and collect for thirty years the rates prescribed by the ordinance of November, 1888. We have passed on a similar contention in Freeport Water Co. v. F7reeport, and in Danville
Water Co. v. Danville, and we need not repeat the reasoning.
Besides, it is disputable if the ordinance of 1888 justifies the
claim of plaintiff in error. The Supreme Court of the State
held that it did not. A strict construction must be exercised.
The contract claimed concerned governmental functions, and

ROGERS PARK WATER COMPANY v. FERGUS.

629

Opinion of the Oourt.

such functions cannot be held to have been stipulated away by
doubtful or ambiguous provisions.
Section 1 of the ordinance recites "that in consideration of
the public benefit to be derived therefrom, the village of Rogers
Park, Illinois, hereby grants the exclusive right and privilege
for a period of thirty years . . . unto 11. E. Keeler, his
successor or assigns," of erecting and maintaining a system of
waterworks. The use of the streets was also granted for such
purpose.
Section 3 recites "in consideration of the public benefits and
the protection of property resulting from the construction of
said system of waterworks," the village agrees to pay a certain
annual rental proportional to the length of the mains.
The grantee, on his part to pay "all municipal and village
taxes," (sec. 3,) "in consideration of the rentals herein agreed
to be paid and in consideration of the rights and privileges
granted" (sec. 4,) agreed to furnish the village and the residents
thereof an adequate supply of water. Failing' to supply water
for a year in quantity or quality stipulated, the "franchise and
all their rights and privileges granted under this ordinance, and
the contract entered into, shall be null and void."
If the ordinance contained any other provisions it could not
be claimed that the company's charges to consumers of the
water furnished them were free from regulation by the municipality if it otherwise had power of regulation. There are other
provisions, and especial stress is laid upon them. Section 12
provides as follows:
"The said grantee or assigns shall charge the following annual water rates to consumers of water during the existence of
this franchise, and they shall have the right at any time to insert a water meter into the service pipe of any consumer and
to charge and collect from him at meter rates, provided that in
such case the minimum annual rate paid by any one consumer
shall be five dollars."
Then follows an enumeration of uses and the rates for such
uses. There is a schedule for meter rates, and also the following provision:
"Rates for all other purposes that may be applied for, not

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE,BREWER, BROWN and PECKHAM,

dissenting.

named in the foregoing schedule of maximum rates, will be
fixed by estimation or meter, at the option of the grantee or
assigns."
This, it will be observed, is the language of command, not of
contract; of limitation on power, not a bargain giving power.
The right to charge the inhabitants of the village for the water
supplied to them resulted from the right to construct and maintain the system. Section 12 was a regulation of the right.
There is no stipulation that it will be the only instance of regulation; that the power to do so is bartered away, and that the
conditions which determined and justified it in 1888 would remain standing, and continue to justify it through the changes
of thirty years. It would require clearer language to authorize us in so holding. The predecessor of the plaintiff in error
was given the monopoly of the supply of water. That might
be necessary to induce the investment of capital, and for its security the obligation of a contract might be sought and given.
There was no such inducement for an unalterable rate. A reasonable rate the law assured, and assured even against governmental regulation. And the statute of 1891, which is especially
complained of, assures it. By section 1 of that statute municipalities are "empowered to prescribe by ordinance maximum rates
and charges," and if unreasonable rates and charges be fixed
they may be reviewed and determined by the circuit court of
the county in which the municipality may be. There is no
complaint in this case that the rates fixed by the ordinance of
1897, passed by the city council of Chicago, were unreasonable.
Plaintiff in error relies strictly on a contractual right. We
think it has no such right, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court is
Afirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE,

BREWER,

MR.

JUSTICE

with whom concurred MR.

BRowN and

JUSTICE

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, dis-

senting.
This case, in my opinion, should be controlled by the same
principles which it seemed to me should have been applied in

ROGERS PARK WATER COMPANY v. FERGUS.
JUSTICES WHITE, BRE WER, BROWN

and

631

PECKHAM, dissenting.

the case of the Freeport Water Company v. Freeport City, ante,
587, just decided. The only difference of fact between that and
the present one is this: In the Freeportcase the matter involved
was the power of the city to contract and to fix the rates to be
paid for a supply of water for public use during the designated
period. Here the question is whether the village of Rogers
Park had power to contract for the construction and maintenance of waterworks, and in such contract to fix the rates to be
charged for the water to be supplied to private consumers during the contract period.
The authority under which the contract in question was made
was the two acts of the legislature of the State of Illinois considered in the ]Freeport case, that is to say, the acts of April 9,
1872, and April 10, 1872. There is this difference, however:
The act of April 9, 1872, was amended on June 26, 1885, (Public Laws of Illinois, 1885, p. 64,) so as to authorize contracts for
a supply of water as therein stated to be made with private
individuals as well as private corporations. Thus authority
existed to contract with individuals under both acts. The ordinance passed by the village of Rogers Park and the contract
made as fully recited in the opinion of the court was for the
erection, maintenance and operation of waterworks, the extension of the system as might be required, the payment of an
annual rental by the village for public hydrants, and the establishment of the rates to be paid by private consumers during
the contract period.
The language of the legislative act conferring authority to
fix the rates, it seems to me, clearly sanctions the establishment
by contract of the rates for private use as it did those to be
paid for the public supply. The fixing of rates is plainly generic
and of necessity embraced those rates which were to be paid
for the supply of water which the statute authorized the village
to contract for. So far as the power of the legislature to authorize a contract for designated rates for a stipulated time is
concerned, I can see no difference between fixing the rates for
the public and those for the private supply during the authorized time. This in my judgment is conclusively settled by the
authorities to which reference was made in my dissent in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, BREWER,

BROWN and PECKHAM, dissenting.

Freeport case. Especially is this shown by the ruling of the
court in Los Angeles v. -Los Angeles City Water Co., 177 U. S.
558, 569, where it was, in effect, decided that a contract, made
by a municipality with a water company that existing rates to
private consumers should not be reduced during the life of the
contract was a valid stipulation, provided that the action of the
city was previously sanctioned or was subsequently ratified by
legislative authority.
The only question then remaining to be examined seems to
me to be whether the particular contract made by the village of
Rogers Park, considered in this case, fixed the rates for private
consumers for the period of the contract. And this only involves an examination of the contract for the purpose of determining its import. Of course, it is conceded, under the rule of
construction stated by me in my dissent in the Freeport case,
that if doubt arises from an analysis of the provisions of the
contract, that doubt must be solved against the water company
and in favor of the municipality. But it is submitted that there
can be no doubt, from a consideration of the text of the contract,
that it fixed the rates to be paid by private consumers during
the life of the contract. The ordinance established in detail a
tariff of specific water rates for private purposes, embracing an
enumeration which would seem to include every variety of use.
It conferred upon the contractor the right, if he did not choose
to charge these rates, to insert in the connection a water meter,
and to charge for the water supplied at meter rates instead of
at the aggregate sum otherwise fixed. The opening clause of
section 12 read as follows: "The said grantee or assignee shall
charge the following annual water rates to consumers of water
during the existence of this franchise, and they shall have the
right at any time to insert a water meter into the service pipe
of any consumer, and to charge and to collect from them at
meter rates, provided that in such case the minimum annual rate
paid by any one consumer shall be five dollars." As I understand
this language, it without doubt embodies the rates, whether fixed
by the purpose for which the water was taken or by the meter
measurement, and explicitly stipulates that these rates may be
charged during the life of the contract. Indeed, it seems to me

ROGERS PARK WATER COMPANY v. FERGUS.
JUSTICES WHITE, BREWER, BRowN and PECKHAM,

633

dissenting.

impossible to conceive that the contract for the construction,
maintenance and supply would have been entered into without
such agreement. Can it, in reason, be said, in view of the terms
of the contract, that if the water company had wished to charge
more than the contract price, on the ground that an unreasonably low sum had been fixed in the contract, it would have
had a right at once to ignore the contract stipulation and exact
higher rates? If it cannot be, how can it be held that the city
had the right at its pleasure to disregard the rates fixed in the
contract? Was not the obligation of one the correlative of the
right of the other? To say that the provisions of the contract
constitute the language of command and not the language of
contract, does not weaken or obliterate the unambiguous provisions of the agreement into which the parties entered. They
were indeed, in my judgment, commands, arising from the express authority conferred upon the municipality by the legislature of the State of Illinois, sanctioned by the agreement of
the parties, and protected from impairment by the Constitution
of the United States.

