NEELY v. HENKEL (NO. 1).
Syllabus.

or to the soil. The right to remove soil from one part of a
road to another part may be conceded. And it has been decided such right extends to other streets forming parts of the
same system. Of this, however, we are not required to express
an opinion, as it is not involved in the prayer.
Finding no error in the record,
The judgment is affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY took no part in the decision.

INEELY v. HENKEL (No. 1).
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

No. 387. Argued December 10, 11, 1900.-Decided January 14, 1901.
There is no merit in the contention that Article 401 of the Penal Code of
Cuba, which provides that the public employ6, who, by reason of his
office, has in his charge public funds or property, and takes or consents
that others should take any part therefrom, shall be punished, applies
only to persons in the public employ of Spain. Spain, having withdrawn
from the island, its successor has become "the public," to which the
code, remaining unrepealed, now refers.
Within the meaning of the act of June 6, 1900, c. 793, 31 Stat. 656, providing for the surrender of persons committing defined crimes within a
foreign country occupied by or under the control of the United States,
and fleeing to the United States, or any Territory thereof, or the District
of Columbia, Cuba is foreign territory which cannot be regarded in any
constitutional, legal or international sense, as a part of the territory of
the United States; and this is not affected by the fact that it is under a
Military Governor, appointed by and representing the President in the
work of assisting the inhabitants of the island in establishing a government of their own.
As between the United States and Cuba that island is territory held in
trust for its inhabitants, to whom it rightfully belongs, and to whose
exclusive control it will be surrendered when a stable government shall
have been established by their voluntary action.
The act of June 6, 1900, is not unconstitutional in that it does not secure to
the accused when surrendered to a foreign country for trial all the rights,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.
privileges and immunities that are guaranteed by the Constitution to persons charged with the commission in this country of crime against the
United States.
The provisions in the Constitution relating to writs of habeas corpus, bills
of attainder, ex post facto laws, trial by jury for crimes, and generally to
the fundamental guarantees of life, liberty and property embodied in that
instrument have no relation to crimes committed without the jurisdiction of the United States, against the laws of a foreign country.
When an American citizen commits a crime in a foreign country, lie cannot
complain if required to submit to such modes of trial and to such punishment as the laws of that country may prescribe for its own people,
unless a different mode be provided for by treaty stipulations between
that country and the United States.
The contention that the United States recognized the existence of an established government, known as the Republic of Cuba, but is now using
its military or executive power to overthrow it, is without merit.
The act of June 6, 1900, is not in violation of the Constitution of the United
States, and this case comes within its provisions; and, the court below
having found that there was probable cause to believe the appellant
guilty of the offences charged, the order for his extradition was proper,
and no ground existed for his discharge on habeas corpus.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
_Mr. John D. Lindsay for appellant.
was on his brief.

Mr. -DeLancey Nicoll

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Beck for ienkel.
M . JUSTICE

HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

By section 5270 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
it is provided:
"Whenever there is a treaty or conventionfor extradition between the Government of the United States and any foreign
government, any justice of the Supreme Court, circuit judge,
district judge, commissioner, authorized so to do by any of the
courts of the United States, or judge of a court of record of
general jurisdiction of any State, may, upon complaint made
under oath, charging any person found within the limits of any
State, District or Territory, with having committed within the
jurisdiction of any such foreign government any of the crimes

NEELY v. HENKEL (NO. 1).
Opinion of the Court.

provided for by such treaty or convention, issue his warrant for
the apprehension of the person so charged, that he may be
brought before such justice, judge or comnissioner, to the end
that the evidence of criminality may be heard and considered.
If, on such hearing, he deems the evidence sufficient to sustain
the charge under the provisions of the proper treaty or convention, he shall certify the same, together with a copy of all
the testimony taken before him, to the Secretary of State, that
a warrant may issue upon the requisition of the proper authorities of such foreign government, for the surrender of such person according to the stipulations of the treaty or convention;
and he shall issue his warrant for the commitment of the person so charged to the proper jail, there to remain until such
surrender shall be made."
This section was amended by Congress June 6, 1900, by
adding thereto the following proviso:
"Provided, That whenever any foreign country or territory,
or any part thereof, is occupied by or under the control of the
United States, any person who shall violate, or who has violated, the criminal laws inforee therein, by the commission of
any of the following offences, namely: Murder, and assault
with intent to commit murder; counterfeiting or altering money,
or uttering or bringing into circulation counterfeit or altered
money; counterfeiting certificates or coupons of public indebtedness, bank notes, or other instruments of public credit, and
the utterance or circulation of the same; forgery or altering,
and uttering what is forged or altered; embezzlement or criminal malversation of the public funds, committed by public of/Jcers, employis or depositaries; larceny or embezzlement of an
amount not less than one hundred dollars in value, robbery;
burglary, defined to be the breaking and entering by night
time into the house of another person with intent to commit a
felony therein; and the act of breaking and entering the house
or building of another, whether in the day or night time, with
the intent to commit a felony therein; the act of entering or of
breaking and entering the offices of the government and public
authorities, or the offices of banks, banking houses, savings
banks, trust companies, insurance or other companies, with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

intent to commit a felony therein; perjury or the subornation
of perjury; rape; arson; piracy by the law of nations; murder,
assault with intent to kill, and manslaughter, committed on the
high seas, on board a ship owned by or in control of citizens or
residents of such foreign country or territory and not under the
flag of the United States, or of some other government; malicious destruction of or attempt to destroy railways, trams, vessels, bridges, dwellings, public edifices or other buildings, when
the act endangers human life, and who shall depart or flee, or
who has departedor jled,from justice therein to the United States,
or to any Territory thereof, or to the Districtof Columbia, shall,
when found therein, be liable to arrest and detention by the
authorities of the United States, and on the written request or
requisitionof the military governor or other chief executive officer
in control of such foreign country or t rritory shall be returned
and surrenderedas hereinafter provided to such authorities for
trial under the laws in force in the place where such ofence was
conmitted. All the provisions of sections fifty-two hundred
and seventy to fifty-two hundred and seventy-seven of this title,
so far as applicable, shall govern proceedings authorized by
this proviso: Providedfurther,That such proceedings shall be
had before a judge of the courts of the United States only, who
shall hold such person on evidence establishing probable cause
that he is guilty of the offence charged; And provided further,
That no return or surrender shall be made of any person
charged with the commission of any offence of a political nature. If so held such person shall be returned and surrendered
to the authorities in control of such foreign country or territory
on the order of the Secretary of State of the United States, and
such authorities shall secure to such person a fair and impartial
trial." 31 Stat. 656, c. 793.
On the 28th day of June, 1900, a warrant was issued by
Judge Lacombe of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York commanding the arrest of
Charles F. W. Neely, who "being then and there a public employ6, to wit, Finance Agent of the Department of Posts in the
city of Havana, Island of Cuba, on the 6th day of May in the
year of our Iord one thousand nine hundred, or about that

NEELY v. HENKEL (NO. 1).
Opinion of the Court.

time, having then and there charge of the collection and deposit
of moneys of the Department of Posts of the said city of Havana, did unlawfully and feloniously take and embezzle from
the public funds of the said Island of Cuba the sum of ten
thousand dollars and more, being then and there moneys and
funds which had come into his charge and under his control in
his capacity as such public employ6 and finance agent, as aforesaid, and by reason of his said office and employment, thereby
violating chapter 10, article 401, of the penal code of the said
Island of Cuba- that is to say, a crime within the meaning of
the said act of Congress, approved June 6,1900, as aforesaid,
relating to the 'embezzlement or criminal malversation of the
public funds committed by public officers, employ6s, or depositaries.'" The warrant directed the accused to be brought before the judge in order that the evidence of probable cause as
to his guilt could be heard and considered, and, if deemed sufficient, that the same might be certified with a copy of all the
proceedings to the Secretary of State, that an order might issue for his return and surrender pursuant to the authority of
the above act of Congress.
The warrant of arrest was based on a verified written complaint of an Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern
District of New York.
On the same day and upon a like complaint a warrant was
issued against Neely by the same judge, commanding his arrest
for the crime of having unlawfully and fraudulently-while
employed in and connected with the business and operations of
a branch of the service of the Department of Posts in Havana,
Cuba, between July 1, 1899, and May 1, 1900-embezzled and
converted to his own use postage stamps, moneys, funds and
property belonging to and in the custody of that Department
which had come into his custody and under his authority as
such employ6, to the amount of $57,000, in violation of sections 37 and 55 of the Postal Code of Cuba.
Neely having been arrested under these warrants application
was made by the United States for his extradition to Cuba.
The accused moved to dismiss the complaints upon various
grounds. That motion having been denied, the case was heard
VOL, CLXXX-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

upon evidence. In disposing of the application for extradition,
Judge Lacombe said: "In the opinion of this court, the Government has abundantly shown that there is probable cause to believe that TNeely is guilty of the offence of 'embezzlement or
criminal malversation of the public funds,' he being at that time
Such an ofa 'public officer' or 'employ6' or 'depositary.'
fence is obnoxious to the Penal Code in force in Cuba, Article 401 of which provides that 'the public employ6 who, by
reason of his office, has in his charge public funds or property
and who should take (or consent that others should take) any part
therefrom, shall be punished,' etc. There is no merit in the
contention that this article applies only to persons in the public employ of Spain. Spain having withdrawn from the island,
its successor has become the 'public' to which the Code, remaining unrepealed, now refers. The suggestion that under
this Penal Code no public employ6 could be prosecuted or
punished until his superior had heard the case and turned the
offender over to the criminal law for trial is matter of defence
and need not be considered here. The evidence shows probable
cause to believe that the prisoner is guilty of an offence defined
in the act of June 6, 1900, and which is also a violation of the
criminal laws in Cuba, and upon such evidence he will be held
for extradition." But, it was further said: " Two obstacles
now exist. He [the accused] has been held to bail in this court
upon a criminal charge of bringing into this district government funds embezzled in another district. He has also been
arrested in a civil action brought in this court to recover $45,000,
which, it is alleged, he has converted. When both of these
proceedings have been discontinued, the order in extradition
will be signed. This may be done on August 13 at 11 A. M."
Subsequently, August 9, 1900, Neely presented in the court
below his written application for a writ of habeas corpus and
prayed that he be discharged from restraint in the extradition
proceedings. He claimed on various grounds that the act of
June 6, 1900, under which he was arrested, detained and imprisoned was in violation of the Constitution of the United
States.
The application for the writ of habeas corpus having been

NEELY v. HENKEL (NO. 1).
Opinion of the Court.

denied and an appeal having been duly taken, the petitioner
was remanded to the custody of the marshal to await the determination of such appeal in this court.
I. That at the date of the act of June 6, 1900, the Island of
Cuba was "occupied by" and was "under the control of the
United States" and that it is still so occupied and controlled,
cannot be disputed. This court will take judicial notice that
such were, at the date named and are now, the relations between
this country and Cuba. So that the applicability of the above
act to the present case-and this is the first question to be exainined-depends upon the inquiry whether, within its meaning,
Cuba is to be deemed aforeign country or territory.
We do not think this question at all difficult of solution if
regard be had to the avowed objects intended to be accomplished
by the war with Spain and by the military occupation of that
Island. Let us see what were those objects as they are disclosed
by official documents and by the public acts of the representatives of the United States.
On the 20th day of April, 1898, Congress passed a joint resolution, the preamble of which recited that the abhorrent conditions existing for more than three years in the Island of Cuba,
so near our own borders, had shocked the moral sense of the
people of the United States, had been a disgrace to civilization,
culminating in the destruction of a United States battleship,
with two hundred and sixty-six of its officers and crew, while
on a friendly visit in the harbor of Havana, and could not longer
be endured. It was, therefore, resolved: "1. That the people
of the Island of Cuba are, and of right ought to be, free and
independent. 2. That it is the duty of the United States to
demand, and the Government of the United States does hereby
demand, that the Government of Spain at once relinquish its
authority and government in the Island of Cuba and withdraw
its land and naval forces from Cuba and Cuban waters. 3. That
the President of the United States be, and he hereby is, directed
and empowered to use the entire land and naval forces of the
United States, and to call into the actual service of the United
States the militia of the several States, to such extent as may
be necessary to carry these resolutions into effect. 4, That the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

United States hereby disclaims any disposition or intention to
exercise sovereignty, jurisdiction or control over said Island
except for the pacification thereof, and asserts its determination,
when that is accomplished, to leave the government and control
of the Island to its people." 30 Stat. 738.
The adoption of this joint resolution was followed by the act
of April 25, 1898, by which Congress declared: "1. That war
be, and the same is, hereby declared to exist, and that war has
existed since the 21st day of April, 1898, including said day,
between the United States of America and the Kingdom of
Spain. 2. That the President of the United States be, and he
hereby is, directed and empowered to use the entire land and
naval forces of the United States, and to call into the actual
service of the United States the militia of the several States,
to such extent as may be necessary to carry this act into effect."
30 Stat. 364, c. 189.
The war lasted but a few months. The success of the American arms was so complete and overwhelming that a Protocol
of Agreement between the United States and Spain embodying
the terms of a basis for the establishment of peace between the
two countries was signed at Washington on the 12th of August, 1898. By that agreement it was provided that "Spain
will relinquish all claim of sovereignty over and title to Cuba"
and that the respective countries would each appoint commissioners to meet at Paris and there proceed to the negotiation
and conclusion of a treaty of peace. 30 Stat. 1742.
Commissioners possessing full authority from their respective
Governments for that purpose having met in Paris, a Treaty of
Peace was signed on December 10, 1898, and ratifications having been duly exchanged it was proclaimed April 11, 1899. 30
Stat. 1754.
That treaty contained among other provisions the following:
"ART. I. Spain relinquishes all claim of sovereignty over and
title to Cuba. And as the island is, upon its evacuation by Spain,
to be occupied by the United States, the United States will, so
long as such occupation shall last, assume and discharge the obligations that may under international law result from the fact
of , its occupation, for the protection of life and property."

NEtLY v. HENKEL (NO. 1).
Opinion of the Court.

"ART. XVI. It is understood that any obligations assumed

in this treaty by the United States with respect to Cuba are
limited to the time of its occupancy thereof ; but it will upon
the termination of such occupancy, advise any government established in the island to assume the same obligations." 30
Stat. 1754-1761.
On the 13th of December, 1898, an order was issued by the
Secretary of War stating that, by direction of the President, a
division to be known as the Division of Cuba consisting of the
geographical departments and provinces of the Island of Cuba,
with headquarters at Havana, was created and placed under the
command of Major General John R. Brooke, United States
Army, who was required, in addition to his command of the
troops in the Division, to " exercise the authority of Military
Governor of the Island." And on December 28, 1898, General Brooke, by a formal order, in accordance with the order
of the President, assumed command of that Division, and announced that he would exercise the authority of Military Governor of the Island.
On the Ist day of January, 1899, at the palace of the Spanish
Governor-General in Havana, the sovereignty of Spain was formally relinquished and General Brooke immediately entered
upon the full exercise of his duties as Military Governor of
Cuba.
Upon assuming the positions of Military Governor and Major
General commanding the Division of Cuba, General Brooke issued to the People of Cuba the following proclamation:
"Coming among you as the representative of the President,
in furtherance and in continuation of the humane purpose with
which my country interfered to put an end to the distressing
condition in this island, I deem it proper to say that the object
of the present Government is to give protection to the people,
security to persons and property, to restore confidence, to encourage the people to resumne the pursuits of peace, to build up
waste plantations, to resume commercial traffic, and to afford
full protection in the exercise of all civil and religious rights.
To this end, the protection of the United States Government
will be directed, and every possible provision made to carry

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

out these objects through the channels of civil administration,
altwugh under military control, in the interest and for the benefit of all the people of Cuba, and those possessed of rights and
property in the island. The civil and criminal code which prevailed prior to the relinquishment of Spanish sovereignty will
remain in force, with such modifications and changes as may
from time to time be found necessary in the interest of good
glovernment. The people of Cuba, without regard to previous
affiliations, are invited and urged to co~iperate in these objects
by the exercise of moderation, conciliation, and good-will one
toward another, and a hearty accord in our humanitarian purposes will insure kind and beneficent government. The Military Governor of the Island will always be pleased to confer
with those who may desire to consult him on matters of public
interest."
On the 11th day of January, 1899, the Military Governor, "in
pursuance of the authority vested in him by the President of
the United States, and in order to secure a better organization of
the civil service in the Island of Cuba," ordered that thereafter
"the civil government shall be administered by four Departments, each under the charge of its appropriate Secretary," to
be known, respectively, as the Departments of State and Government, of Finance, of Justice and Public Instruction, and of Agriculture, Commerce, Industries and Public Works, each under
the charge of a Secretary. To these Secretaries " were transferred, by the officers in charge of them, the various bureaus of
the Spanish civil government." Subsequently, by order of the
Military Governor, a Supreme Court for the island was created,
with jurisdiction throughout Cuban territory, composed of a
President or Chief Justice, six Associate Justices, one Fiscal,
two Assistant Fiscals, one Secretary or Chief Clerk, two Deputy
Clerks, and other subordinate employ6s, with administrative
functions, as well as those of a court of justice in civil and criminal matters. By order of a later date, issued by the Military
Governor, the jurisdiction of the ordinary courts of criminal
jurisdiction was defined.
Under date of July 21, 1899, by direction of the Military
Governor, a code known as the Postal Code was promulgated

NEELY v. HENKEL (NO. 1).
Opinion of the Court.

and declared to be the law relating to postal affairs in Cuba.
That Code abrogated all laws then existing in Cuba inconsistent with its provisions. It provided that the Director General
of Posts of the Island should have the control and management
of the Department of Posts and prescribed numerous criminal
offences, affixing the punishments for each. It is not disputed
that one of the offences charged against Neely is included in
those defined in the Postal Code established by the Military
Governor of Cuba, and that the other is embraced by the Penal
Code of that Island which was in force when the war ensued
with Spain, and which by order of the Military Governor remained in force, subject to such modifications as might be found
necessary in the interest of good government.
On the 13th day of June, 1900, the present Military Governor
of Cuba, General Leonard Wood, made his requisition upon the
President for the extradition of Neely under the act of Congress.
The facts above detailed make it clear that within the meaning of the act of June 6, 1900, Cuba is foreign territory. It
cannot be regarded, in any constitutional, legal or international
sense, a part of the territory of the United States.
While by the act of April 25, 1898, declaring war between this
country and Spain, the President was directed and empowered
to use our entire land and naval forces, as well as the militia of
the several States to such extent as was necessary, to carry such
act into effect, that authorization was not for the purpose of
making Cuba an integral part of the United States but only for
the purpose of compelling the relinquishment by Spain of its
authority and government in that Island and the withdrawal of
its forces from Cuba and Cuban waters. The legislative and
executive branches of the Government, by the joint resolution
of April 20, 1898, expressly disclaimed any purpose to exercise sovereignty, jurisdiction or control over Cuba "except for
the pacification thereof," and asserted the determination of the
United States, that object being accomplished, to leave the
government and control of Cuba to its own people. All that
has been done in relation to Cuba has had that end in view and,
so far as the court is informed by the public history of the re-

OCTOBER TERAM, 1900,
Opinion of the Court.

lations of this country with that Island, nothing has been done
inconsistent with the declared object of the war with Spain.
Cuba is none the less foreign territory, within the meaning
of the act of Congress, because it is under a Military Governor
appointed by and representing the President in the work of assisting the inhabitants of that island to establish a government
of their own, under which, as a free and independent people,
they may control their own affairs without interference by other
nations. The occupancy of the Island by troops of the United
States was the necessary result of the war. That result could
not have been avoided by the United States consistently with
the principles of international law or with its obligations to the
people of Cuba.
It is true that as between Spain and the United States-indeed, as between the United States and all foreign nationsCuba, upon the cessation of hostilities with Spain and after the
Treaty of Paris was to be treated as if it were conquered territory. But as between the United States and Cuba that Island
is territory held in trust for the inhabitants of Cuba to whom it
rightfully belongs and to whose exclusive control it will be surrendered when a stable government shall have been established
by their voluntary action.
In his message to Congress of December 6, 1898, the President said that "as soon as we are in possession of Cuba and
have pacified the Island, it will be necessary to give aid and
direction to its people to form a government for themselves,"
and that "until there is complete tranquillity in the Island and
a stable government inaugurated, military occupation will be
continued." Nothing in the Treaty of Paris stands in the way
of this declared object, and nothing existed, at the date of the
passage of the act of June 6, 1900, indicating any change in
the policy of our Government as defined in the joint resolution
of April 20, 1898. In reference to the declaration in that
resolution of the purposes of the United States in relation to
Cuba, the President in his annual message of December 5,
1899, said that the pledge contained in it "is of the highest honorable obligation, and must be sacredly kept." Indeed, the
Treaty of Paris contemplated only a temporary occupancy and

NEELY v. HENKEL (NO. 1).
Opinion of the Court.

control of Cuba by the United States. While it was taken for
granted by the treaty that upon the evacuation by Spain, the
island would be occupied by the United States, the treaty provided that "so long as such occupation shall last" the United
States should "assume and discharge the obligations that may,
under international law, result from the fact of' its occupation
for the protection of life and property." It further provided
that any obligations assumed by the United States, under the
treaty, with respect to Cuba, were "limited to the time of its
occupancy thereof," but that the United States, upon the termination of such occupancy, should "advise any government
established in the Island to assume the same obligations."
It cannot be doubted that when the United States enforced
the relinquishment by Spain of her sovereignty in Cuba and
determined to occupy and control that island until there was
complete tranquillity in all its borders and until the people of
Cuba had created for themselves a stable government, it succeeded to the authority of the displaced government so far at
least that it became its duty under international law and pending the pacification of the Island, to protect in all appropriate
legal modes the lives, the liberty and the property of all those
who submitted to the authority of the representatives of this
country. That duty was recognized in the Treaty of Paris and
the act of June 6, 1900, so far as it applied to cases arising in
Cuba, was in aid or execution of that treaty and in discharge
of the obligations imposed by its provisions upon the United
States. The power of Congress to make all laws necessary
and proper for carrying into execution as well the powers enumerated in section 8 of article I of the Constitution, as all others
vested in the Government of the United States, or in any Department or the officers thereof, includes the power to enact
such legislation as is appropriate to give efficacy to any stipulations which it is competent for the President by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate to insert in a treaty with a
foreign power. What legislation by Congress could be more
appropriate for the protection of life and property in Cuba,
while occupied and controlled by the United States, than legislation securing the return to that island, to be tried by its

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

constituted authorities, of those who having committed crimes
there fled to this country to escape arrest, trial ahd punishment? No crime is mentioned in the extradition act of June 6,
1900, that does not have some relation to the safety of life and
property. And the provisions of that act requiring the surrender of any public officer, employ6 or depositary fleeing to
the United States after having committed in a foreign country
or territory occupied by or under the control of the United
States the crime of "embezzlement or criminal malversation
of the public funds" have special application to Cuba in its
present relations to this country.
We must not be understood, however, as saying that but for
the obligation imposed by the Treaty of Paris upon the United
States to protect life and property in Cuba pending its occupancy and control of that island, Congress would have been
without power to enact such a statute as that of June 6, 1900,
so far as it embraced citizens of the United States or persons
found in the United States who had committed crimes in the
foreign territory so occupied and controlled by the United
States for temporary purposes. That question is not open on
this record for examination, and upon it we express no opinion.
It is quite sufficient in this case to adjudge, as we now do, that
it was competent for Congress, by legislation, to enforce or give
efficacy to the provisions of the treaty made by the United States
and Spain with respect to the Island of Cuba and its people.
Ii. It is contended that the act of June 6, 1900, is unconstitutional and void in that it does not secure to the accused, when
surrendered to a foreign country for trial in its tribunals, all
of the rights, privileges and immunities that are guaranteed by
the Constitution to persons charged with the commission in
this country of crime against the United States. Allusion is
here made to the provisions of the Federal Constitution relating
to the writ of habeascorpus bills of attainder, exyostfacto laws,
trial by jury for crimes, and generally to the fundamental guarantees of life, liberty and property embodied in that instrument.
The answer to this suggestion is that those provisions have no
relation to crimes committed without the jurisdiction of the
United States against the laws of a foreign country.

NEELY v. HENKEL (NO. 1).
Opinion of the Court.

In connection with the above proposition, we are reminded of
the fact that the appellant is a citizen of the United States.
But such citizenship does not give him an immunity to commit
crime in other countries, nor entitle him to demand, of right, a
trial in any other mode than that allowed to its own people by
the country whose laws he has violated and from whose justice
he has fled. When an American citizen commits a crime in a
foreign country he cannot complain if required to submit to such
modes of trial and to such punishment as the laws of that country may prescribe for its own people, unless a different mode be
provided for by treaty stipulations between that country and
the United States. By the act in question the appellant cannot
be extradited except upon the order of a judge of a court of the
United States and then only upon evidence establishing probable
cause to believe him guilty of the offenQe charged; and when
tried in the country to which he is sent, he is secured by the same
act "a fair and impartial trial "-not necessarily a trial according
to the mode prescribed by this country for crimes committed
against its laws, but a trial according to the modes established
in the country where the crime was committed, provided such
trial be had without discrimination against the accused because
of his American citizenship. In the judgment of Congress these
provisions were deemed adequate to the ends of justice in cases
of persons committing crimes in a foreign country or territory
"occupied by or under the control of the United States," and
subsequently fleeing to this country. We cannot adjudge that
Congress in this matter has abused its discretion, nor decline to
enforce obedience to its will as expressed in the act of June 6,
1900.
II. Another contention of the appellant is that as Congress,
by the joint resolution of April 20, 1898, declared that "the
people of Cuba are, and of right ought to be free and independent" and as peace has existed since, at least, the military
forces of Spain evacuated Cuba on or about January, 1899, the
occupancy and control of that island, under the military authority of the United States is without warrant in the Constitution and an unauthorized interference with the internal affairs
of a friendly power; consequently it is argued the appellant

O(JTOi3ER TEIRM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

should not be extradited for trial in the courts established under the orders issued by the Military Governor of the Island.
In support of this proposition it is said that the United States
recognized the existence of the Republic of Cuba, and that the
war with Spain was carried on jointly by the allied forces of
the United States and of that Republic.
Apart from the view that it is not competent for the judiciary
to make any declaration upon the question of the length of time
during which Cuba may be rightfully occupied and controlled
by the United States in order to effect its pacification-it being
the function of the political branch of the Government to determine when such occupation and control shall cease, and
therefore when the troops of the United States shall be withdrawn from Cuba-the contention that the United States recognized the existence, of an established government known as
the Republic of Cuba, but is now using its military or executive power to displace or overthrow it, is without merit. The
declaration by Congress that the people of Cuba were and of
right ought to be free and independent was not intended as a
recognition of the existence of an organized government instituted by the people of that Island in hostility to the government maintained by Spain. Nothing more was intended than
to express the thought that the Cubans were entitled to enjoy
-to use the language of the President in his message of December 5, 1897-that "measure of self control which is the
inalienable right of man, protected in their right to reap the
benefit of the exhaustless treasure of their country." In the
same message the President said: "It is to be seriously considered whether the Cuban insurrection possesses beyond dispute the attributes of statehood, which alone can demand the
recognition of belligerency in its favor. The same requirement
must certainly be no less seriously considered when the graver
issue of recognizing independence is in question." Again, in
his message of April 11, 1898, referring to the suggestion that
the independence of the Republic of Cuba should be recognized
before this country entered upon war with Spain, he said: "Such
recognition is not necessary in order to enable the United States

to intervene and pacify the island. To commit this country

NEELY v. HENKEL (NO. 1).
Opinion of the Court.

now to the recognition of any particular government in Cuba
might subject us to embarrassing conditions of international
obligation toward the organization to be recognized. In case
of intervention our conduct would be subject to the approval
or disapproval of such government. We should be obliged to
submit to its direction and to assume to it the mere relation of
a friendly ally." To this may be added the significant fact
that the first part of the joint resolution as originally reported
from the senate committee read as follows: "That the people
of the Island of Cuba are and of right ought to be free and
independent, and that the Government of the United States
hereby recognizes the iepubli qf Cuba as the true and lawful
government of the Island." But upon full consideration the

views of the President received the sanction of Congress, and
the words in italics were stricken out. It thus appears that
both the legislative and executive branches of the government
concurred in not recognizing the existence of any such government as the Republic of Cuba. It is true that the cobporation
of troops commanded by Cuban officers was accepted by the
military authorities of the United States in its efforts to overthrow Spanish authority in Cuba. Yet from the beginning to
the end of the war the supreme authority in all military operations in Cuba and in Cuban waters against Spain was with the
United States, and those operations were not in any sense under the control or direction of the troops commanded by Cuban
officers.
We are of opinion, for the reasons stated, that the act of
June 6, 1900, is not in violation of the Constitution of the
United States, and that this ease comes within the provisions
of that act. The court below having found that there was
probable cause to believe the appellant guilty of the offences
charged, the order for his extradition was proper, and no ground
existed for his discharge on habeas corpus.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is, therefore,
Affirmed.

