BLYTHE v. HINCKLEY.
Statement of the Case.

BLYTHE v. HINCKLEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 347. Submitted January 14, 1901.-Decided February 25, 1901.

The motion to dismiss this case for lack of jurisdiction must be denied,
because the question was duly raised, and its Federal character cannot
be disputed; but the motion to affirm is granted, because the assignments of error are frivolous and evidently taken only for delay.

THis case comes here on writ of error to the Supreme Court
of California to review the judgment of that court affirming a
judgment of the Superior Court of California for the county of
San Francisco sustaining a demurrer to the complaint. The
case involves a large amount of real property belonging in his
lifetime to one Thomas IH. Blythe, who was a naturalized citizen of the United States, and died intestate on the 4th of April,
1883, a resident of the city and county of San Francisco.
Questions relating to the title to this property have been in
litigation for over fifteen years, and various suits have been
instituted in the state and Federal courts in California during
that time, all of which have resulted favorably to the interests
of the defendant in error herein, who claims to be the owner of
the property. Three suits have been before this court upon a
writ of error or by appeals brought by some of the parties interested, and have been dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
.Blythe v. linckley, 167 U. S. 746 ; Blythe Comyany v. Blythe,
172 U. S. 644; Blythie v. Iinckiey, 173 U. S. 501.
The sole question which plaintiff in error herein seeks to
have decided is whether the defendant in error was capable of
taking the property of the intestate under the laws of California, the plaintiff in error claiming as one of the next of kin and
heirs at law of the intestate, and objecting that the defendant
in error could not take the property because she was an alien
and a subject of the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Ireland at the time of the death of the intestate,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

and that in the absence of a treaty between the United States
and Great Britain, permitting and providing for such taking on
the part of an alien, there was no power in the State of California to legislate upon the subject, and the statute of that State
assuming to permit such alien to take was a violation of that
part of section 10 of article 1 of the Constitution of the United
States, which provides that "no State shall enter into any
treaty, alliance or confederation; . . ." and the attempt of the
State of California to legislate upon this subject was therefore
an invasion of and an encroachment upon the treaty-making
power of the United States.
The facts upon which the question arises are set forth in the
complaint, which stated in substance that the defendant in
error was an alien and illegitimate daughter of an unmarried
woman, and that prior to the death of the intestate neither the
defendant nor her mother had ever been outside of Great
Britain, and that she was incapable by the common law of
England and of California and by the Constitution of the
United States, section 10, article 1, and by section 1928 of the
Revised Statutes, of inheriting the real property described in
the complaint; that there was at the time of the death of the
intestate no treaty between the United States and Great Britain which provided for the inheritance of aliens in the United
States. After the death of the intestate the defendant in error
came to the United States and claimed (falsely as alleged,) that
she had been adopted by the intestate as his daughter in his
lifetime under the provisions of section 230, Civil Code of California; also that he had adopted her as his heir under the provisions of section 1387 of that Code. Some time in 1885 she
therefore instituted by her guardian, under section 1664 of the
same Code, a proceeding for the purpose of establishing her
claim as such adopted daughter or as such heir to succeed to
the estate left by the intestate. Upon the trial it was made to
appear that the defendant in error was an illegitimate child and
an alien, and the complaint herein then alleges that it was the
duty of the court before which the trial was going on to dismiss the proceeding for want of jurisdiction to decree that defendant in error was an heir to the real estate or capable of

BLYTHE v. HINCKLEY.
Statement of the Case.

taking by descent. The court, however, as the complaint alleged, decided otherwise, and upon the evidence determined
and adjudged that the defendant vas the natural heir of the
intestate and that in his lifetime he had adopted her as his
(laughter under section 230 of the California Civil Code, or had
instituted her as his heir under section 1387 of that Code.
It was further alleged that the seventeenth section of article 1
of the new constitution of California, permitting aliens to acquire, possess, enjoy, transmit and inherit property the same as
native born citizens, was void as an attempt by the people of
the State of California to encroach upon the treaty-making
power of the United States, and was in violation of section 10
of article I of the Federal Constitution. It was then alleged
that the court in the proceeding mentioned did not in legal
effect determine the question of heirship, title or interest in the
real estate for want of jurisdiction, and that the legislature of
the State had no power or authority to enact any law which
gave to the defendant in error the right to inherit the real
estate of the intestate.
The complaint further stated that an appeal was taken to the
Supreme Court of the State and that all of the above matters
were made to appear to that court, which nevertheless affirmed
the judgment. The same averments of the lack of jurisdiction
to make such decree were made with regard to the Supreme
Court as were set forth regarding the lower court, and the plaintiff in error alleged that the judgment of the Supreme Court
was void for lack of jurisdiction. It was also alleged that after
this affirmance of the decree of the lower court, by which the
rights of the defendant in error to take the property were formally determined, she instituted a proceeding pursuant to the
provisions of the California Code, in the Superior Court in San
Francisco, where the administration of the estate of the intestate was pending, to have distributed the estate of the intestate
in accordance with the judgments of the Superior and the Supreme Courts in the proceeding already mentioned. This was
opposed by the parties interested adversely to the defendant in
error upon the same grounds which had been set up as a defence
in the former suit. Upon the trial of the latter proceeding the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

record in the former suit was offered in evidence and objected
to as void for want of jurisdiction, but it was received by the
court and held by it to be conclusive evidence of the rights of
the parties, and the court then made a decree of distribution in
favor of the defendant in error. An appeal was taken to the
Supreme Court where the judgment was affirmed, although, as
alleged, the court was without jurisdiction. Pursuant to that
decree the defendant in error obtained possession of the real
property in December, 1895.
It was further alleged that all the claims of the defendant in
error to inherit or to hold the real property were groundless and
unfounded in fact or in law, and judgment was asked declaring
the claims of the defendant to any of the property to be illegal
and unfounded, and that plaintiff, as against her, was the lawful owner in fee of the real property mentioned, and was entitled
to the income and profits thereof, and decreeing that his title
thereto and estate therein should be quieted and the defendant
perpetually enjoined from setting up any claim whatever to
the property, and that the possession and accumulated rents of
the property in the hands of the receiver be delivered to the
plaintiff.
The portions of the Federal and state constitutions and the
various statutes referred to in the complaint are set forth in the
margin.'
'Section 10, article 1, of the Federal Constitution:
.
"No State shall enter into any treaty, alliance or confederation; .
Section 1, article 2:
"No State shall, without the consent of the Congress, . . . enter
into any agreement or compact with another State or with a foreign
power. ..
Section 17 of article 1 of the constitution of California:
"Foreigners of the white race or of African descent eligible to become
citizens of the United States under the naturalization laws thereof, while
bonaflde residents of this State, shall have the same rights in respect to the
acquisition, possession, enjoyment, transmission and inheritance of property as native-born citizens."
Civil Code of California:
"SEc. 230. The father of an illegitimate child, by publicly acknowledging it as his own, receiving it as such, with the consent of his wife, if he is
married, into his family, and otherwise treating it as if it were a legitimate

BLYTHE v. HINCKLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant demurred to this complaint on the grounds,
among others, (1) that the complaint stated no cause of action;
(2) that the judgment of distribution set forth in the complaint
was a conclusive bar and estoppel against the plaintiff and prevented him from maintaining the action. The demurrer was
sustained and judgment entered in favor of the defendant on
the merits, and upon appeal it was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of California. A writ of error has been allowed by the
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of that State. A motion is
now made to dismiss the writ of error for lack of jurisdiction
or to affirm the judgment.
Mr. William H. ff. -Hart, fr. Robert Y. IHayne and Mr.
Frederic D. McKenney for the motions.

Mr. S. W. Iolladay, Mr. E. Burke Holladay, Mr. Jefferson
Chandler and 3r. I. D. McKisick opposing.
MR. JUSTICE PECIXAM, after making the foregoing statement

of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The motion to dismiss the writ of error in this case, for lack
of jurisdiction, must be denied.
The objections raised by the complaint to the validity of the
judgments mentioned therein were that they were void for want
child, thereby adopts it as such; and such child is thereupon deemed for
all purposes legitimate from the time of its birth."
"SEc. 671. Any person, whether citizen or alien, may take, hold and
dispose of property, real or personal, within this State.
"SEc. 672. If a non-resident alien takes by succession, he must appear
and claim the property within five years from the time of succession, or be
barred. The property in such case is disposed of as provided in Title VIII,

Part III, Code of Civil Procedure."
"SEc. 1387. Every illeginate child is an heir of any person who, in writing signed in the presence of a competent witness, acknowledges himself to
be the father of such child."
Revised Statutes of the United States:
"SEc. 1978. All citizens of the United States shall have the same right,
in every State and Territory, as is enjoyed by white citizens thereof to inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold and convey real and personal property."
VOL. CLXXX-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of jurisdiction in the courts which rendered them over the questions decided, because of the provisions of the Federal Constitution above recited. Although the claim may not be well
founded, the question, nevertheless, was duly raised, and its Federal character cannot be disputed. This necessitates the denial
of the motion to dismiss.
But the motion to affirm should be granted because the assignments of error are frivolous and we are convinced the writ
was taken only for delay. This is the ground for the decisions
in Ch7anute City v. Trader, 132 U. S. 210, 214, and Richardson
v. Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co., 169 U. S. 128, 132.
The original judgment in the Superior Court of California,
which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of that State, determined the rights of the defendant in error, and conclusively
adjudged her to be the owner of the property in question, unless the judgment was reversed upon appeal. The state courts
had jurisdiction over the whole question, including the defence
founded upon the Federal Constitution, and if that objection
had been properly raised, and appeared in the record, an appeal
to this court from the Supreme Court of California could have
been taken, if the defence had been overruled. The allegation
of the plaintiff in error that the state courts had no jurisdiction
to determine the question, because of the facts set forth by him
in the complaint herein, is therefore not well founded, and being a mere conclusion of law is not admitted by the demurrer.
This court has already decided the question of jurisdiction of
the state courts in Blythe v. Hincicley, 173 U. S. 501, 508, where
it was said by Chief Justice Fuller, speaking for that court,
that"The state courts had concurrent jurisdiction with the Circuit Courts of the United States, to pass on the Federal questions thus intimated, for the Constitution, laws and treaties of
the United States are as much a part of the laws of every State
as its own local laws and constitution, and if the state courts
erred in judgment it was mere error, and not to be corrected
through the medium of bills such as those under consideration."
If the Federal question which plaintiff in error claimed existed
in the suits in the state court were not plainly enough presented

BLYTHE v. HINCKLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

by him to those tribunals so as to permit of their review by this
court, that is no answer to the proposition that those judgments
are conclusive of the matters therein decided, unless reviewed
by this court and reversed in a proper proceeding in error to
the state court.
Litigation in regard to the merits of the claim of the defendant in error to this property has been continued by her opponents since the judgments of the state courts, just as if the whole
merits of the case had not been decided by the state courts in
her favor several times. This court has been asked to review
a judgment dismissing the complaint filed in a separate action,
brought in the Federal Circuit Court to set aside the state judgments, and this we refused to do on the grounds stated in the
report. Blythe v. Hinikley, 173 U. S. supra. It was said in
that case:
"The Superior Court of San Francisco was a court of general
jurisdiction, and authorized to take original jurisdiction ' of all
matters of probate,' and the bill averred that Thomas H. Blythe
died a resident of the city and county of San Francisco, and
left an estate therein ; and that court repeatedly decreed that
Florence was the heir of Thomas H. Blythe, and its decrees
were repeatedly affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State.
So far as the construction of the state statute and state constitution in this behalf by the state courts was concerned, it was
not the province of the Circuit Court to reexamine their conclusions. As to the question of the capacity of an alien to inherit, that was necessarily involved in the determination by the
decrees, that Florence did inherit, and that judgment covered
the various objections in respect of section 1978 of the Revised
Statutes, and the tenth section of article one of the Constitution
of the United States, and any treaty relating to the subject."
In the same case it was said: "We are not to be understood
as intimating in the least degree that the provisions of tho
California Code amounted to an invasion of the treaty-making
power or were in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States, or any treaty with the United States." This decision
conclusively determined that the Superior Court of California
and the Supreme Court of that State, upon appeal therefrom,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

had full jurisdiction to determine the whole case and give the
judgments that they have given. Notwithstanding which it is
now again argued that those judgments were void for want of
jurisdiction.
There must be an end to these claims at some time, and we
think that this is a proper occasion to terminate them.
The sole question now remaining before us arises as to the
claim made by plaintiff in error under the Constitution of the
United States, already referred to, and although it was not in
terms decided in the above case, we now say that the provision
of the Federal Constitution had no bearing in this case, and
that the question is, in our opinion, entirely free from doubt.
Plaintiff urges that never before has the question been directly passed upon by this court. If he means that it has
never heretofore been asserted, that in the absence of any treaty
whatever upon the subject, the State had no right to pass a law
in regard to the inheritance of property within its borders by
an alien, counsel may be correct. The absence of such a claim
is not so extraordinary as is the claim itself.
Questions have arisen as to the rights of aliens to hold property in a State under treaties between this Government and
foreign nations which distinctly provide for that right, and it
has been said that in such case the right of aliens was governed
by the treaty, and if that were in opposition to the law of the
particular State where the property was situated, in such case
the state law was suspended during the treaty or the term provided for therein. Counsel cite Geofroy v. Riggs, 133 U. S.
258, a case arising, and affecting lands, in the District of Columbia, in regard to which Congress has exclusive jurisdiction,
and in that case Mr. Justice Field, in delivering the opinion of
the court, said at page 266:
"This article, by its terms, suspended, during the existence
of the treaty, the provisions of the common law of Maryland
and of the statutes of that State of 1780 and 1791, so far as
they prevented citizens of France from taking by inheritance
from citizens of the United States, property, real or personal,
situated therein."
But there is no hint in that case that in the absence of any

BLYTHE v. HINCKLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

treaty the State itself could not legislate upon the subject and
permit aliens to hold property, real and personal, within its
borders according to its own laws. This court has held from
the earliest times in cases where there was no treaty that the
laws of the State where the real property was situated governed
the title and were conclusive in regard thereto.
The latest exposition of the rule is found in the case of Olarce
v. Clarke, 178 U. S. 186. De Va-agku v. Hutchinson, 165 U. S.
566, 570, is another illustration of the same rule. The right
of the State to make this determination by her own laws, in
the absence of a treaty to the contrary, is distinctly recognized
in Chirac v. Chirac, 2 Wheat. 259, 272, where the court said:
"John Baptiste Chirac having died seized in fee of the land
in controversy; his heirs at law being subjects of France; and
there being, at that time, no treaty in existence between the
two nations; did this land pass to these heirs, or did it become
escheatable?. This question depends upon the law of Maryland."
In Lessee of Levy v. McCartee, 6 Pet. 102, the question was in
regard to the law of New York and the right of an individual
to inherit through an alien title to real estate in that State.
Mr. Justice Story delivered the opinion of the court, in which
he stated that the question resolved itself into "whether one
citizen can inherit in the collateral line to another, when be
must make his pedigree or title through a deceased alien ancestor. The question is one of purely local law, and, as such,
must be decided by this court."
It was not claimed that the State of New York had no power
to permit an inheritance through an alien or an inheritance by
an alien himself of land situated in that State in the absence of
a treaty upon the subject.
There has not been cited a single case where any doubt has
been thrown upon the right of a State, in the absence of a
treaty, to declare an alien capable of inheriting or taking property and holding the same within its borders. The treaties
have always been for the purpose of enabling an alien to take
even though the particular State may not have expressly permitted it. But no case has arisen where it was asserted or

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

claimed that a State in the absence of a treaty might not itself
permit an alien to take property within its limits.
Again in Hauenstein v. Lynhcan, 100 U. S. 483, where the
question depended upon a consideration of the treaty between
the United States and the Swiss Confederation of November 25,
1850, it was said by Mr. Justice Swayne, in delivering the opinion of the court, that "The law of nations recognizes the liberty of every government to give to foreigners only such rights,
touching immovable property within its territory, as it may
see fit to concede. Vattel, book 2, c. 8, see. 114. In our
country, this authority is primarily in the States where the property is situated." And it is also said in that case, if a law of a
State is contrary to a treaty, the treaty is superior under the
Federal Constitution, but there is no intimation that when there
is no treaty the right of the State does not exist in full force.
The treaty, it will be observed, only permitted the alien to take
the land, sell it and withdraw and export the proceeds thereof,
but might take and hold the same as if he were a citizen on declaring his intention to reside in the State. See also Jianriee
v. P~atrick, 119 U. S.156. The question of the extent of the
power of the United States to provide by treaty for the inheriting by aliens, of real estate, in spite of the statutes of the
State in which the land may be, does not arise in this case, and
we express no opinion thereon.
The claim which the plaintiff in error founds upon the section of the Federal Constitution is too plainly without foundation to require further argument. The right of the defendant in error to this property has been in litigation for more
than fifteen years, and many years after courts of competent
jurisdiction have decided all the qnestions in her favor, and we
think this writ of error, judging by the character of the question sought to be raised under it, has been taken for delay
only. The judgment must be
Aflrned.

