OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

MITCHELL, GOVERNOR, AND BLOXIJAM, COMPTROLLER, OF FLORIDA, v. FURMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF ThE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 23. Argued October 17, 18, 1900. -Decided

March 11, 1901.

The record considered, it is held that the jurisdiction of this court on a
direct appeal from the Circuit Court may be maintained on the ground
that the construction of a treaty made under authority of the United
States was drawn in question.
This was a bill to remove clouds on title, and rested on appelles' alleged
legal title under a Spanish grant, and cannot be sustained because the
title set up was not absolutely complete and perfect prior to the treaty
between the United States and Spain. As the grant needed confirmation, and had never received it, it could not be treated as constituting
absolute legal title.
Even grants of land in Florida which were in fact complete and perfect
prior to the ratificaL ion of the treaty might be required by Congress to
have their genuineness and their extent established by proceedings in a
particular manner, before they could be held valid.
Under the various acts of Congress cited, the cause of action proceeded on
in this suit was barred by failure to comply with their provisions.

THIS was an amended bill of complaint filed November 30,
1895, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Florida by Charles M. Furman in his own right,
and as administrator of the estate of Charles M. Furman; Bolivar B. Furman, and Alester G. Furman, all citizens of the State
of South Carolina, against hTenry L. Mitchell, Governor, William D. Bloxham, Comptroller, Charles B. Collins, Treasurer,
William B. Lamar, Attorney General, and Lucius B. Wombwell, Commissioner of Agriculture, of the State of Florida,
and citizens thereof, as the Board of Trustees of the Internal
Improvement Fund of the State of Florida ; the Florida Coast
Line Canal and Transportation Company, a corporation of Florida, having its principal place of blusiness at St. Augustine; the
St. Johns Railway Company, a corporation of Florida, having

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Statement of the Case.

its principal place of business at Jacksonville; Horace S. Cummings, residing in the District of Columbia; and John A. Henderson, a citizen of the State of Florida, alleging: " That they
own and hold title in fee simple, as tenants in common, to all
that tract, parcel, or piece of land lying, situate, and being in
the county of St. Johns in the State of Florida, and within
townships seven, eight, and nine south of range thirty east,
known as 'Anastasia,' or 'Saint Anastasia,' Island, said to
contain ten thousand acres, but which in fact contains about
seven thousand five hundred acres, excepting therefrom what
was known at the time of the Spanish grant hereinafter mentioned as the King's Quarries, the boundaries of which were
marked by stakes, the same being about two hundred acres,
lying on and east of the old King's Road, between the same
and the old lighthouse, which exception does not embrace the
lands or any part thereof hereinafter alleged to be claimed by
the defendants or any of them."
"That the said tract of land was granted by the government
of Spain to Jos6, or Joseph, Fish -otherwise known as Jesse
Fish -(hereinafter designated as Joseph Fish), on or about the
19th day of June, A. D. 1795, which said grant was ratified and
confirmed by the United States by the treaty with Spain ratified by the United States on the 19th day of February, A. D.
1821."
The bill then set up title to Anastasia Island as derived from
Joseph Fish, through his mother Sarah Fish, her granddaughter,
Jessie B. Perpall, who married Charles M. Furman, who became sole heir at law of his wife and their son, Gabriel, and
left a will under which complainants claimed. It was averred
that Joseph Fish died intestate in 1798; that his mother died
int estate in 1825; that her granddaughter died intestate in 1827 ;
that Mrs. Furman's son Gabriel died in infancy in 1836; and
that Charles M. Furman died in 1872.
It was further alleged that Joseph Fish was placed in possession of the said land so granted and resided thereon in his
dwelling house and cultivated an orange grove and fields, enclosed by a fence; that he used the woodlands on the island,
and exercised such acts of possession of the whole of the island

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

as it was capable of; and that from his death to the present
time those claiming under Fish have done the same.
The bill averred that the State of Florida claimed title under
the act of Congress of September 28, 1850, relating to swamp
lands, of certain lands on Anastasia Island, which complainants
asserted were part of the grant to Joseph Fish, and owned by
them; these were described according to the public surveys and
alleged to contain 1.465.15 acres, more or less, all in township
seven, south of range 30 east; and that the United States on
September 18, 1856, issued its patent to the State of Florida
th erefor.
That the State of Florida by an act of January 6, 1855, vested
in the governor, the comptroller, the state treasurer, the attorney general, and the register of public lands, now known
as the commissioner of agriculture, of that State, and their successors in office, as the board of trustees of the internal improvement fund of the State, the title to all lands granted to
the State under the act of Congress, with power to sell and transfer the same; that defendants, Mitchell, governor, and others,
now constitute the board of trustees; that the board on May 13,
1885, executed a deed of conveyance to the Florida Coast Line
and Transportation Company of certain lots and parts of sections, in township seven, containing in all 549 acres, being part
of the lands patented to the State, which land, except that conveyed to Horace S. Cummings, was claimed by the Transportation Company adversely to complainants; that of these lands,
the Transportation Company executed a deed of conveyance to
Cummings of one hundred and sixty acres, which was claimed
by Cummings adversely to complainants.
That the board of trustees, September 21, 1886, executed a
conveyance to the St. Johns Railway Company of certain lots
and parts of sections in township seven, containing in all 328.10
acres, being part of the land patented to the State, which land
was claimed by the railway company adversely to complainants;
that the board of trustees on July 30, 1892, executed a deed of
conveyance to defendant Henderson of certain lots in township
seven, containing 286.28 acres, which land was claimed by Henderson adversely to complainants. It was further averred that

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Statement of the Case.

the United States issued to the State of Florida on June 27,
1895, a patent for certain other lands, being part of Anastasia
Island, described by the public surveys, in township seven, containing 393.30 acres; that the United States issued to the State
of Florida on April 8, 1895, a patent for certain other lands
described by the public surveys, in township seven, containing
120 acres; that these lands were selections made by the State
under an act of Congress of June 9, 1880, entitled " An act to
confirm certain entries and to warrant locations in the former
Palatka Military Reservation in Florida ;" that in addition to the
lands so patented the State had selected under said act certain
lands on Anastasia Island in township seven containing 367.32
acres; that entries of these selections had been allowed by the
commissioner of the general land office of the United States,
and the same were held to be patented to the State under the act
of Congress of June 9, 1880 ; that the lands so patented to the
State and those selected by the State for patent under the act
aforesaid were in lieu of selections under the act of Congress
of September 28, 1850, and were vested by the legislature of
Florida, by the act of January 6, 1855, in said board of trustees, if the United States held the title thereto at the time of
the issue of the patents, and that the board of trustees claimed
title to the same adversely to complainants.
The bill charged "that the said patents from the United
States and the said deeds of those claiming thereunder, and
said entries and selections of the State of Florida, whereby the
said defendants claim title, respectively, to the said lands as
aforesaid are invalid, and do not vest a title in the said defendants to the lands so claimed by them, respectively, as aforesaid,
for the reason that the United States, under whom the defendants claim, did not, at the time of issuance of such patents or
at any other time, have or hold title to the said lands, or any part
thereof, but that the title to the same is in your orators, holding and claiming under the said grant of the government of
Spain to the said Joseph Fish as aforesaid."
The bill also alleged that none of the defendants were in
actual possession of the lands or any part thereof; that the
lands exceeded in value the sum of $2000; and "that this

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

cause arises under the said treaty between the United States
and Spain, which ratified and confirmed the said grant to the
said Joseph Fish, under whom your orators claim title. And
the controversy involved in this case necessarily involves the
construction of said treaty."
It was then charged "that the said patents, entries, and
deeds by and under which the defendants respectively claim
title to said lands as aforesaid, are clouds upon the title of your
orators in the said lands and tend to depreciate the value and
sale thereof, to the great damage and injury of your orators in
the premises."
The prayer was "that the said patents, entries, and deeds
by and under which the said defendants respectively claimed
title to the lands so respectively claimed by them as aforesaid
may be set aside and declared void as clouds upon the title of
your orators, and that the defendants and each of them may be
enjoined from entering upon or taking possession of said lands,
or in any manner disturbing the possession of your orators
thereof, and that your orators may have such other and further
relief in the premises as equity may require and as to your
honors shall seem meet."
The defendants Mitchell and others, members of the board
of trustees, moved to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction,
which motion was overruled. Defendant Cummings made a
similar motion. The trustees also filed a demurrer for want of
jurisdiction, and a demurrer for want of equity. The defendants, the Canal and Transportation Company and the St. Johns
Railway Company, also demurred. All the demurrers were
overruled.
The trustees and Cummings then filed their answer, denying
that Anastasia Island was granted by the government of Spain
to Jose or Joseph Fish, June 19,1795, or at any other time, or that
the title to the lands in controversy was ever granted by the King
of Spain or by his lawful authorities, and averring that the
only part of Anastasia Island, the title to which was ever
granted by the King of Spain or by his lawful authorities, was
a tract of about three hundred acres granted to Lorenzo Rodriguez in 1793, and a tract of about twenty acres granted to

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Statement of the Case.

F. X. Sanchez in 1802, both of which tracts had been confirmed
by the United States and surveyed and platted as private grants
upon the maps and plats of the land department of the United
States. They denied that the treaty with Spain ratified or
confirmed any grant of the lands in controversy in this suit to
the ancestor of complainants or gave title thereto to any other
person save only to the United States; and denied that Joseph
Fish was placed in possession of Anastasia Island except the
King's Quarries, as a grant thereof to him by the King of Spain
or his lawful authorities, or that he or his successors exercised
such acts of possession of the whole of Anastasia Island except
the King's Quarries, as it was capable of, under claim of title,
or that he claimed title as the owner of said island. But they
said that the occupancy and acts of possession alleged, if true,
applied to no other lands than those embraced in the Fish
homestead, which was a point of land on the extreme west
shore of Anastasia Island, nearly surrounded by water, and
cut off from the main island of Anastasia, embracing about one
hundred acres of land, well known by general reputation as
"Fish's Island." They admitted the patenting by the United
States to the State of Florida of the several tracts of land described in said bill, and averred that before any patent could
be issued for these lands, the State of Florida was required to
establish before the land department of the United States that
the lands were vacant and unappropriated public lands of the
United States; that Furman in behalf of complainants appeared
before that tribunal and contested the matter, and presented
and urged their claim to the same under the same title set up
in the bill, and that there was a final determination by said tribunal which was adverse to complainants' claim, and decided
that the lands were not private lands.
Also that in addition to the lands so patented to the State of
Florida, the State had selected the lands set out in the bill, and
that the entries had been allowed by the land office, and were
held to be patented; and said that such allowance and holding
for patent was an adjudication of a competent tribunal that the
lands were public lands of the United States, which adjudication
for the issue of the patent was subject to review in the land

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

department, and might be corrected if erroneous. They denied
that the patents, deeds, entries and selections whereby defendants claim title to the lands in controversy were invalid, and asserted that the United States had title to said lands, and that
it was not in complainants.
"They admit that this controversy involves the construction
of the treaty between Spain and the United States, and they
aver that complainants in their said bill have set out as their
title an incipient and inchoate title under the 'government of
Spain,' not cognizable in the courts of the Government until
recognized or confirmed by the Congress of the United States;
that by the rules established in the Territory of Florida by the
authority of the King of Spain for the granting of lands, a
grant from the government of Spain signified only the first concession or right of occupancy of the royal domain; that perfect
or complete grants were recognized by the treaty with Spain,
but incomplete grants were ratified by the treaty, to the same
extent they would have been valid had the territory remained
under the King of Spain; that if there had been a complete
grant of the Anastasia Island at the date of the treaty the owners thereof were authorized under the laws of the United States
to have the same surveyed without expense as a private claim
by the United States, but by the averments of their said bill
complainants show that said lands have been surveyed as public
lands."
The answer stated "that Anastasia Island is a barrier of the
sea, consisting chiefly of high sand hills blown in from the sea
beach, covered with 'scrub,' a low growth of hard wood; that
through the center of the northern part, in township 7, there
runs north and south a ledge of coquina rock from one half to
three quarters of a mile wide; that all the lands are barren and
wholly unfit for any purpose whatever save seashore residence,
and of no value apart from their proximity to a city patronized
as a winter resort; that on the western shore of said island,
nearly separated from the main island by a strip of low ground
or 'swale,' is a neck of land called Fish's Island, containing
about 60 to 100 acres, which is arable land, and on this point

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Statement of the Case.

was an orange grove and cultivated fields of about thirty acres
under enclosure, and houses and outbuildings."
It was further averred that complainants or their ancestor
never had any title whatever to the lands described in the bill
unless it were to a part of lots two, three and six of section 29,
township 7, range 30 east, which embraced the orange grove of
"Vergel" plantation, alleged to have been sold by the Spanish
government in probate proceedings upon the estate of Joseph
Fish about March 21, 1792 ; that to this plantation the heirs of
Fish might have had an equitable title, but this had been forfeited by failure to present or record such claim and have it surveyed.
Defendants further said that Anastasia Island was officially
turned over in behalf of the King of Spain to the United States,
in 1821, as one of the adjacent islands named in the treaty, and
as a part of the royal domain, and the lands delivered as such
by the lawful authorities of the King of Spain to the United
States, whose authorities then went into actual occupancy of
part, and the possession of the whole, of Anastasia Island, save
two Spanish grants, one to Rodriguez and the other to F. X.
Sanchez.
That June 19, 1795, the Spanish law in force in the Floridas
vesting in the Spanish governors the power to make grants of
lands was the royal order of 1790, under which Governor Quesada, Spanish governor of East Florida in 1795, required ten
years of continued and uninterrupted possession before full title
was granted to claimants, who upon petition had received a grant
or concession and had been put in possession of lands, etc.
The answer further set forth that no person except the governor of the province was entitled to make grants of land under
the Spanish law, and if any other person had authority to make
grants the titles so granted were incipient until confirmed by
the governor, etc. ; and alleged on information and belief that
any proceedings purporting to be a concession for 10,000 acres,
dated June 19, 1795, to Joseph Fish, found among the archives
at the date of the cession, were either forgeries, or so irregular
as to render their genuineness too doubtful to be accepted as
evidence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

Defendants averred that any claim which Fish ever had would
be found to be an alleged grant purporting to be signed by one
Morales, the commandant of the third battalion of Cuba, and
not by the governor, an unauthorized proceeding under Spanish
law ; that no authority existed in Morales to make the grant,
and no other claim in East Florida is based on action by him;
that the law required an official survey to be filed in the records
and a certified copy delivered to claimants, but there was none
in this instance; that the archives relating to property in Florida, both public and private, contain a complete list of all real
titles or patents for lands granted by the lawful authorities of
the King of Spain in East Florida, but that list contains none to
Joseph Fish for the lands on Anastasia Island.
The answer restated that the lands claimed by complainants
to have been granted to Joseph Fish were never segregated
from the royal domain, and were not measured, bounded or
platted or otherwise located by official survey, and could not
be identified by natural boundaries.
Defendants further averred that by the act of Congress of
May 23, 1828, Congress confirmed all claims recommended for
confirmation to the extent of a league square, and enacted that no
more than a league square should be confirmed in any grant, and
that no confirmation should be effectual until a full release by
the claimant of all the lands claimed in any one grant in excess
of a league square, but authorizing all claimants who were not
willing to accept a league square to present their titles to the
District Court of the United States within one year from the
date of the act or be barred ; that claimants never released the
excess of a league square, nor presented their claim to the District Court of the United States, as did all others having claims
in Florida in excess of that amount; that the legislative council
of the Territory of Florida published the acts of May 23, 1828,
May 26, 1830, and February 8, 1827, with the treaty with Spain,
for circulation in Florida, and though often notified of the
limitations in said acts, the claimants under Joseph Fish did
not avail themselves of the acts, and abandoned and forfeited
their claims to said land, so that the United States would have
acquired title by prescription even if the lands were private

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Statement of the Case.

property; that in 1833, having given public notice that unless
the private claims within the district were presented to the surveyor general, he would survey the same as public land of the
United States, the claim of Fish not having been presented anld
having been abandoned, the United States extended the sur veys over all of Anastasia Island except the grants to Rodriguez
and Sanchez, and in 1839 advertised the lands for sale as public
lands; that on May 6, 1851, the maps and plans of said lands
surveyed as public lands were formally approved by the surveyor general for Florida; that the United States patented to
the State of Florida certain lands in 1866 as vacant lands, and
in 1867, 1868 and 1869 a large area of lands on Anastasia Island were entered under the homestead laws of the United
States, and settled upon and improved, and wood was cut therefrom and sold; that some of the homestead settlers failed to
make final proof of their entries, but final proof of homestead
and settlement under the homestead laws for lands on the island
was made and final certificates issued to several persons named
in 1875, in 1876 and in 1882 ; that in 1867 the trustees executed
a conveyance for lands on that island to Rogero for lots 2 and
3, section 29, to Hopkins and Rogero for lot 6, section 29, and
to Magruder and Logan for lots 2 and 3, section 32, all in township 7, range 30 east, being part of the lands patented to Florida;
that September 16, 1868, Sanchez applied to the land department of the United States for the issue of a patent upon the
Fish claim, and in 1870 Furman advised the land department
that he claimed to be the owner of Anastasia Island under an
alleged grant prior to 1763, and made application for the issue
of a patent from the United States to him.
That from 1831 to June 22, 1860, the claim was wholly
barred; that June 22, 1860, Congress again authorized claimants to present their claims, if an imperfect grant, to commissioners for confirmation, but if a complete grant, to the District
Court for the Northern District of Florida, but those claiming
under Fish neglected to avail themselves of this right to have
the validity of their claim determined, but did apply to the
land department for further adjudication ; that after application to the land department for an adjudication by Furman

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

in 1870, Congress extended the act of June 22, 1860, until
June 10, 1875, by an act approved June 10, 1872, by the second
section of which act no proof of title was required of claimants,
provided they and those from whom they claimed had held
continuous possession of the lands claimed; that having submitted their claim to a tribunal of their own choice they are
now estopped to deny its jurisdiction.
That in June and July, 1888, the State of Florida, applied to
the land office at Gainesville to enter certain portions of land
at the north end of Anastasia Island under the act of June 8,
1880, as vacant and public land, but because there was on file
at the land office a letter from the commissioner dated March 7,
1887, advising that the island was claimed by Furman, and that
the claim had not been adjudicated by the land department,
the register and receiver rejected the selections of Florida, and
the State appealed to the commissioner; that the claim of
Furman was taken under advisement by the commissioner on
briefs submitted by the State, and by Furman and others
claiming under Fish, and on August 2, 1890, the commissioner
rendered his decision that the lands were public lands of the
United States, whereupon complainants took an appeal from
the decision of the commissioner to the Secretary of the Interior, and submitted arguments in support of their contention
that the said lands were owned by them under a valid Spanish
grant, and on June 22, 1893, the Secretary rendered his decision
affirming the decision of the commissioner, that said claim bad
no validity; that complainants failed to file any motion for review and the decision became final, and is a complete and final
adjudication of complainants' want of title, and that the lands
were public lands subject to disposal by the United States;
that complainants caused a bill to be introduced in the Fiftythird Congress for confirmation and release to them by the
United States of the lands on Anastasia Island as claimed under
Fish, but Congress refused to consider the same.
The answer denied that complainants were in possession of
any part of the land on Anastasia Island, and set forth the possession of many persons claiming title under the United States.
It averred that the St. Augustine and South Beach Railroad

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Statement of the Case.

Company was in possession of a roadbed and right of way
across the island through sections 17, 21, 27 and 28 in township
7, range 30 east, under authority of an act of Congress approved
March 3, 1875, granting a right of way over the public lands
of the United States; that lot one of section 21 was reserved for
lighthouse purposes by order of the President dated June 22,
1869; that part of lot two of section 21 of township 7 was declared a reservation for lighthouse purposes by order of the President dated February 1, 1883 ; that afterwards by a like order the
remainder of said lot two was declared a United States reservation for lighthouse purposes; and that by executive order dated
May 4, 1893, the President reserved 700 acres of land in sections 21, 22 and 28 of township 7 for military purposes.
That the requirement by Congress that all claimants under
grants from the King of Spain in the Floridas should relinquish
all in excess of a league square of the lands claimed in any one
grant, was a declaration of the policy of the political department of the United States as to the territory acquired from a
foreign power and a determination by Congress of the extent
of the obligations imposed on the United States by the treaty
with Spain.
The answer further averred that the failure to release the
excess forfeited the entire claim, and that, without any release,
the excess over a league square was subject to sale as public
land; that the issue of the patents depended upon the existence
of facts which the land department of the United States had
determined existed; that by the survey of the lands of Anastasia Island as public land and their offer for sale by the proclamation of the President, and confirmation of portions thereof
to the State of Florida by patent, the reservation of portions
thereof by executive order, and the opening of all to homestead
entry, the United States had become seized of the whole of said
Anastasia Island by the equivalent of office found.
The St. Johns Railway Company and the Florida Canal and
Transportation Company also filed an answer of similar purport. Numerous exceptions to these answers were filed and
some of them were sustained to certain paragraphs. Replication having been filed, the cause was referred to a master, who

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

subsequently made a report containing findings of facts, findings of mixed law and fact, and conclusions of law, to which
numerous exceptions were filed by defendants, all of which
were overruled by the court, and a decree was entered in accordance with the prayer of the bill and the recommendations
of the report. A decreepro covfesso was entered against John
A. Henderson.
From this decree all the defendants except Henderson, in
respect of whom an order of severance was entered, prosecuted
this appeal.
The master also filed with his report an elaborate and careful opinion on the whole case.
Complainants introduced in evidence from the American State
Papers, Public Lands, vol. IV, Duff Green edition, 256, "Minutes of the proceedings of the commissioners appointed to ascertain claims and titles to land in East Florida for the year
1824."
Meeting of the board, March 29, 1824, pursuant to an act of
Congress of February 28, 1824.
Meeting, September 13, 1824, when "Sarah Fish, 10,000 acres;
same 500 acres," and three other "cases being called and not
being prepared for trial," were "placed at the foot of the
docket."
Minutes of meeting, March 28, 1825, pursuant to the act of
Congress of March 3, 1825. April 21, 1825: "Permission was
given by the board to the executors of the estate of Sarah Fish,
deceased, to amend the memorials in the claims of said Sarah
Fish."
December 16, 1825: "The following claims were this day
reported to Congress for confirmation, viz: . . . Sarah
Fish's heirs, for ten thousand acres; .
Report of commissioners to the Secretary of the Treasury,
January 31, 1826, transmitting claims and titles examined
and disposed of, class three comprehending "claims exceeding
3500 acres, the titles to which were found among the public
archives of the country, and are ascertained by the commissioners to be valid Spanish grants, and reported accordingly
to Congress for confirmation." 4 Am. State Papers, Public

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Statement of the Case.

Lands, D. G. ed., p. 276.
class No. three, as follows:

The Fish claim was included in

"Register of claims to land exceeding 3500 acres in East Florida,which are
founded on patents or royal titles derived from the Spanish (Government,
and which in the opinion. of the commnissioners are valid.

k

Qean-Ocou-

Nalnes of-

0

tmy

Present Original
claim- Caim
ants.
ants.

0

E0and

)ate of of land.
By
the
concosWhoml
Sion Or
Coll0A0
order of
ceded. m
o
'Acs.,
survOy.
hdths.
o"53

Couditiens.

h
Where

eultiO
vation

'Situated.
0A

Cases reported this session.
Heirs of
Jessie
Fish.

Jessie
Fish
a

19 June,
1795.

10,00

TMorl(s,

1799

Complied with.

Anastasia
Island.

1.

The petition of Mrs. Fish, dated August 31, 1823, asserted
that she " claims title to the island lying in front [i. e., to the
east] of the city of St. Augistine, and running south about
eighteen miles, more or less, along the east bank of the river
Matanzas, known by the name of the island of St. Anastasia,
supposed to contain ten thousand acres, as belonging to the
deceased husband, Jesse Fish, Senior, in the year 1763. That
in the year 1792 this island was sold at public sale by order of
the Spanish governor, Quesada, when her son, the late Jesse
Fish, Jr., deceased, became the purchaser."
Accompanying this memorial were certain papers and proceedings as follows: A petition of Jos(- Fish, (erroneously
dated December 2, 1796,) stating that at the auction of his
father's property for the payment of his creditors, he purchased the place called The Vergel for $1605, which sum he
gave only with a view to the fruit trees of said place, and
the timber which is on the land belonging to it, as the land is
entirely useless for planting ; that several of the neighbors had
been cutting the wood, and therefore lie begs to be declared
owner of the lands which his said father possessed, annexed

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

to the place of the Orange Grove, which, according to the
deeds granted in the time of the British possession, amounted
to 10,000 acres, whether as a new settler or by the right which
his deceased father had to them. That if he does not obtain
this favor he will consider himself the loser of the greatest
part of his purchase, because the lands will not produce crops
of any kind and a great number of the fruit trees have dried
up, which is likely to occur to the balance of them.
Governor Quesada, who described himself as "brigadier of
the infantry of the royal armies, governor, commander in
chief, vice royal patron, and sub-delegate of the royal domain
of this city of St. Augustine, Florida, and its province, for His
Majesty," referred the petition December 15, 1794, to the assessor general, who, on the same day, reported that if Fish had
asked to prevent trespassing or to recover possession, he would
render an opinion, but as Fish asked to be declared owner, it
was for the governor to determine judicially the extent of
Fish's purchase or his right as a new settler.
Thereupon Governor Quesada directed Fish to make proof
of the facts on which he based his right or claim to favor.
Sundry depositions were then taken, and the governor on the
12th of February, 1795, referred the petition and proof to the
collector of the exchequer, that as fiscal of it he may represent
him in the discharge of his functions. February 27 the fiscal
reported that at the sale of the orange grove to Joseph Fish,
the boundaries of the land were not taken into consideration,
and only the valuation of the trees within the orchard was
made, without including the 10,000 acres of land annexed to
it. And he was of opinion that Fish was not entitled to anything more than he could prove by the inventory, valuation
and sale, and that after this land had been laid off, the remainder ought to be sold as belonging to his deceased father
and for the benefit of the creditors of his estate, that the inventory, valuation and sale of the orchard should be annexed;
and that in case Fish had occasion for the use of more public
land, and without injury to a third person, the fiscal minister
did not find any objection to granting them to him as a new
settler, " according to what His Majesty has commanded of
this particular."

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Statement of the Case.

The governor then directed, March 6, 1795, that the testimony indicated "be placed in continuation and with it those
proceedings returned to the assessor general, that he may consult with me as to what is proper as respects the other points
to which the foregoing fiscal representation refers."
The inventory, valuation, and sale of the orange grove in
1792, was accompanied by the commission of the governor dated
January 18, 1792, appointing the appraisers, and specifying the
"9th item" thus: " The place called 'El Vergel,' which belongs
to the deceased, although the title under which he enjoyed it
does not appear in the proceedings."
March 26, 1795, this entry was made by the governor: "Seen:
Passed over to Don Jos6 Fish: Thus decrees and orders Senor
Don Juan Nepomuceno de Quesada, brigadier of the infantry
of the royal armies, governor, Commander General, Vice Royal
Patron, and Subdelegate of the Royal Domain of this City of
St. Augustine, Florida, and its province, for His Majesty, who
signs it, with the opinion of Senor the assessor general, the
twenty-sixth of March, one thousand seven hundred and ninetyfive."
There then appears a new petition by Fish, without date,
setting out that he is a new settler in the province; that the
above mentioned documents have been given him, and he, being
advised of their contents as also of the sale at auction of The
Vergel, considers that the fiscal was in error when he reported
adversely on the first petition; that he has produced proof that
his father had ancient possession of "El Vergel," for which he
paid an excessive price, and prays that a grant of "said island"
be made to him, and that a copy of the writing which he presented to the notary after the sale, asking for the island at a
valuation, be placed in continuation.
On April 17, 1795, the assessor general, Ortega, who recites
that he is "advocate of the royal council, lieutenant governor,
auditor of war, and assessor general of the city of Saint Augustine, Florida, and its province, for His Majesty, who signs it in
consequence of the illness of the governor and commander-inchief," directed that the copy be put in continuation, and the
whole passed over to the representation fiscal. The writing
voL. cLxxx-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

referred to is dated March 22, 1792, and Fish states therein
that at the public sale, the day before, of the property of his
father, there was no person who would bid "for the island del
Vergel;" that he obligated himself to pay $1605; and "he
prays your excellency to have the kindness to order that he be
placed in possession of it." On. May 4, 1795, the first officer
of the chief comptroller's department, "and who is charged
with the administration and court of justice of the royal treasury on account of the illness of his excellency, the governor, and
as attorney fiscal of the royal treasury," reviewed the papers,
and concluded that under the circumstances the governor might
"order the boundaries of the Vergel to be marked off to the
number of 10,000 acres." This was followed by this entry:
"Having examined the proceedings, it was thus decreed and
ordered by Senor Don Bartolome Morales, colonel of the infantry of the royal armies, commandant of the third battalion of
Cuba which garrisons this city of Saint Augustine, Florida,
and political and military governor of it and its province, from
the indisposition of the governor, who signed it on the sixteenth
of May, 1795; which I attest." This was signed by Morales,
and attested by Ortega, assessor general, before the notary.
June 12, 1795, Morales and Ortega directed notice to be given
to the defender of the estate of Fish, and that the proceedings
be returned.
June 17, 1795, the defender of the estate reported that the
10,000 acres might be granted.
Then follow the alleged grant and delivery of possession,
namely:
"IHaving examined those proceedings and seen the proof adduced in them by Don Jos( Fish, it appears not only that his
father of the same name possessed since the time of the old
Spaniards and in that of the British dominion the 10,000 acres of
land, possession of which he claims at the place called the Orange
Grove, which he purchased at public auction, but also that he
made a bid for the said land, under which his purchase ought
to be understood, which defect in not explaining it thus at that
time should not be prejudicial to him, and has given cause to

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Statement of the Case.

this litigation. His excellency said that declaring it, as he declared now, he ordered in consequence that whether by the right
which the burdensome acquisition of the said land gives Fish,
which cost him 1605 dollars, which it appears he paid for the
purchase of the Orange Grove, or by the right which the ancient
possession of his father gives him to the said 10,000 acres of
land, or finally in consequence of the petition of Fish, that they
should be granted to him as a new settler, he be placed in possession of the said land, which it appears his said father possessed,
and which is already laid off, with the reserve of the quarries,
and the remainder, which was not granted to his said father,
and which the King has reserved, renewing, in case of necessity,
at the cost of the interested, the boundaries by said appraisers,
Don Manuel Solana, who at the time of the old Spaniards and
at the new possession by them of the province laid off by order
of the government, the aforesaid quarries, to give possession, as
is proven, to the father of the memoralist of the land which he
claims, and let them be granted to him on the terms above set
forth, the present notary, who is commissioned for the purpose,
when with the said appraisers, and any other workman that
may be necessary, he shall assist at marking the boundary, at
which also shall assist, to represent the royal treasury, the person whom the minister of the royal domain may depute for the
purpose. All of which shall be made appear on the proceedings
with which, and the taxation of the costs, which the interested
shall satisfy, this proceeding shall be held as concluded. It was
thus decreed and ordered by Senor Don Bartolome Morales,
colonel of infantry of the royal armies, commandant of the third
battalion of Cuba, which garrisons this city of St. Augustine,
Florida, and political and military governor, who signed this,
with the opinion of his honor the assessor general, on the 19th
June, 1795, which I attest.
" BARTOLOME

MORALES.

" LICENTIATE JOSEF DE ORTEGA."

"Proof of boundary and possession.
"Being at the plantation called the Orange Grove, in the
island of St. Anastasia, on the tenth of July, 1795, in conformity

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

with what is provided in the foregoing decree, we proceeded to
the marking the boundaries of the land comprised in these proceedings. Don Manuel Solano, the appraiser appointed for
the purpose, passing from said place to where the quarries of
the King and of individuals are situated, who, passing along the
ancient boundaries with Don Jos6 Lorente, chief master of the
royal works, who accompanied him to inform himself, Don
Tadeo Arribas, officer of the royal comptroller's office, from the
employment of the collector, for his fiscal cognizance, and I, the
present notary, went fixing up stakes to point out said boundaries across the island, and separated the said quarries, saying
that all besides them was what corresponded to Don Jos6 Fish;
to whom, being also present, I, the said notary, in discharge of
the commission which was conferred upon me, put him in possession of the land pointed out, leading him into it by hand, and
riding together on horseback by various places, until arriving at
the dwelling house; all of which I did as a token of said possession, which he took quietly, peaceably, and without contradiction. In testimony of which and for the due proof I have
extended t]he present proceedings, which all signed with the exception of Solano, who said he did not know how."
Signed by Arribas, Lorente and Fish.
The Secretary of the Treasury transmitted the report of the
commissioners, with the evidence and decisions, to Congress,
February 21, 1826. Vol. 4, p. 400.
The act of Congress of May 8, 1822, 3 Stat. 709, c. 129, provided that "for the purpose of ascertaining the claims and titles
to lands within the territory of Florida, as required by the
treaty," commissioners should be appointed with power "to inquire into the justice and validity of the claims filed with them,"
but not to have "power to confirm any claim or part thereof
where the amount claimed is undefined in quantity, or shall exceed one thousand acres; but in all such cases shall report the
testimony with their opinions to the Secretary of the Treasury,
to be laid before Congress for their determination." A surveyor
was also to be appointed.
Section 4 provided that "every person, or the heirs or representatives of such persons, claiming title to lands under any

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Statement of the Case.

patent, grant, concession, or order of survey, dated previous to
the twenty-fourth day of January, one thousand eight hundred
and eighteen, which were valid under the Spanish government,
or by the law of nations, and which are not rejected by the
treaty ceding the territory of East and West Florida to the
United States, shall file, before the commissioners, his, her, or
their, claims, setting forth, particularly, its situation and boundaries, if to be ascertained, with the deraignment of title, where
they are not the grantees, or original claimants; which shall be
recorded by the secretary, . . . and said commissioners
shall proceed to examine and determine on the validity of said
patents, grants, concessions, and orders of survey, agreeably to
the laws and ordinances heretofore existing of the government
making the grants, respectively, having due regard, in all Spanish claims, to the conditions and stipulations contained in the
eighth article of a treaty concluded at Washington, between His
Catholic Majesty and the United States, on the twenty-second
of February, one thousand eight hundred and nineteen; but
any claim not filed previous to the thirty-first day of May, one
thousand eight hundred and twenty-three, shall be deemed and
held to be void and of none effect."
This act was amended by an act approved March 3, 1823, 3
Stat. 751, c. 29, confining the existing board of commissioners
to West Florida, and authorizing the appointment of three commissioners for East Florida. The second section of this act
provided that in the examination of titles, the claimant or claimants "shall not be required to produce in evidence the deraignment of title from the original grantee or patentee, but the coinmissioners shall confirm every claim in favor of actual settlers
at the time of cession of the said territory to the United States,
where the quantity claimed does not exceed thirty-five hundred
acres, where such deraignment cannot be obtained, the validity
of which has been recognized by the Spanish government, and
where the claimant or claimants shall produce satisfactory evidence of his, her, or their right to the land claimed. And said
commissioners shall have the power, any law to the contrary
notwithstanding, of deciding on the validity of all claims derived from the Spanish government in favor of actual settlers,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

where the quantity claimed does not exceed three thousand five
hundred acres."
It was enacted by the fifth section "that all claims not filed
with the commissioners of the district, where the land claimed
is situated, in the manner prescribed by the act to which this is
an amendment, on or before the first day of December next,
shall be held to be void and of none effect."
The act further provided for the appointment of a surveyor
for the territory, for the opening of land offies in each district,
and for the appointment of a register and a receiver for each of
said offices.
February 28, 182, an act was passed, 4 Stat. 6, c. 25, which
extended the time limited for the settlement of private land
claims in Florida by the act of Maflch 3, 1823, until January 1,
1825; declared that no person should be taken and deemed to
be an actual settler unless he, or those under whom he claimed
title, should have been in the cultivation or occupation of the
land at and before the period of the cession ; and that it should
be lawful for claims to be filed any time previous to September 1,
1824, "but all and every claim not filed by that time, shall be
held and deemed void and of none effect."
On the third of March, 1825, another act was passed, 4 Stat.
125, c. 83, which provided that it should "be lawful for claims
to be filed before the board of commissioners in East Florida
any time prior to the first day of November, one thousand
eight hundred and twenty-five;" and the commissioners were
authorized to continue their session until the first Monday of
January, 1826. The act provided for the appointment of keepers
of the public archives.
February 8, 1827, an act was passed, 4 Stat. 202, c. 9, to confirm title to lands and lots favorably passed on or reported not
exceeding thirty-five hundred acres. This act provided "that
the several claimants to land in said district, whose claims have
not been heretofore decided on or filed, before the late board
of commissioners, be permitted to file their claims, and the evidence in support of them, with the register and receiver of said
district, and evidence in support of those filed before said board,
at any time before the first of -November next, whose duty it

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Statement of the Case.

shall be to report the same, with their decision thereon, and
those already filed, to the Secretary of the Treasury, on or before the first day of January, one thousand eight hundred and
twenty-eight, to be laid before Congress at the next session."
Surveys were to be made and certificates granted, and claims
for which the surveyor refused to issue certificates designated
on the township plats. Holders of claims exceeding 3500 acres
were required to furnish the surveyor with such information as
would enable him to exhibit the claims on said plats.
This was followed by the act of May 23, 1828, 4 Stat. 284, c. 70,
which confirmed claims which had been recommended for confirmation "to the extent of the quantity contained in one league
square, to be located by the claimants, or their agents, within
the limits of such claims or surveys filed, as aforesaid;" "that
no more than the quantity of acres contained in a league square,
shall be confirmed within the bounds of any one grant; and no
confirmation shall be effectual until all the parties in interest,
under the original grant, shall file with the register and receiver
of the district where the grant may be situated, a full and final
release of all claim to the residue contained in the grant; and
where there shall be any minors incapable of acting within
said territory of Florida, a relinquishment by the legal guardian shall be sufficient; and thereafter the excess in said grants,
respectively, shall be liable to be sold as other public lands of
the United States."
The fourth section provided that the register and receiver
should continue to decide the remaining claims in East Florida,
subject to the same limitations and in conformity with the provisions of the several acts of Congress for the adjustment of
private land claims in Florida, until the first Monday in the
next December, when they should make a final report of all
the claims aforesaid in said district to the Secretary of the
Treasury; and provided that it should never be lawful after
that time for any of the claimants to exhibit any further evidence in support of said claims.
It was further enacted by section six "that all claims to land
within the territory of Florida, embraced by the treaty between
Spain and the United States of the twenty-second of February,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

one thousand eight hundred and nineteen, which shall not be decided and finally settled under the foregoing provisions of this
act, containing a greater amount of land than the commissioners were authorized to decide, and above the amount confirmed
by this act; and which have not been reported, as antedated or
forged, by said commissioners, the register and receiver, acting
as such, shall be received and adjudicated, by the judge of the
superior court of the district in which the land lies, upon the
petition of the claimant, according to the forms, rules, regulations, conditions, restrictions, and limitations prescribed to the
district judge, and claimants in the State of Missouri, by act
of Congress, approved May twenty-six, eighteen hundred and
twenty-four, entitled 'An act enabling the claimants to land
within the limits of the State of Missouri, and territory of
Arkansas, to institute proceedings to try the validity of their
claims;' Provided, That nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize said judges to take cognizance of any claim
annulled by the said treaty, or the decree ratifying the same by
the King of Spain, nor any claim not presented to the commissioners or register and receiver, in conformity with the several acts of Congress, providing for the settlement of private
land claims in Florida." An appeal was provided for from the
decision of the Judge of the District Court to this court within
four months after the decision should be pronounced.
The twelfth section read: "That any claims to lands, tenements, or hereditaments, within the purview of this act, which
shall not be brought by petition before said court within one
year from the passage of this act, or which, after being brought
before said court, shall on account of the neglect or delay of the
claimant, not be prosecuted to a final decision within two years,
shall be forever barred, both at law and in equity; and no other
action at common law, or proceeding in equity, shall ever thereafter be sustained in any court whatever."
The act of May 26, 1824, 4 Stat. 52, c. 173, in respect of land
claims in Missouri and Arkansas, which "might have been perfected into a complete title" under the prior government, provided that it might be lawful for claimants to lands in Missouri
and Arkansas to institute proceedings to try the validity of their

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Statement of the Case.

claims in the manner set forth; that the court should have full
power and authority "to settle and determine the question of
the validity of the title, according to the law of nations, the
stipulations of any treaty, and proceedings under the same; the
several acts of Congress in relation thereto; and the laws and
ordinances of the government from which it is alleged to have
been derived; and all other questions properly arising between
the claimants and the United States."
The decision of this court, if an appeal were taken, or, if not,
of the court below, was to be final and conclusive. By the
fifth section of the act, any claim not brought before the court
within two years, or not prosecuted to final decision within
three years, was barred.
May 26, 1830, 4 Stat. 405, c. 106, an act was passed confirming the claims and titles to lands filed before the register
and receiver of the land office acting as commissioners in the
district of East Florida under the quantity contained in one
league square, which had been recommended for confirmation,
and referred to Congress January 14, 1830; "and all the remaining claims which have been presented according to law,
and not finally acted upon, shall be adjudicated and finally settled upon the same conditions, restrictions, and limitations, in
every respect, as are prescribed by the act of Congress approved
twenty-third May, one thousand eight hundred and twentyeight."
By the eighth section, claimants who were entitled to avail
themselves of the act of May 23, 1828, or might avail themselves of the provisions of this act, by taking a quantity of land
equal to a league square in lieu of the whole grant, were allowed
a further time of one year from the passage of the act in which
to make their relinquishments, etc.
By an act of June 22, 1860, 12 Stat. 85, c. 187, "for the
final adjustment of private land claims in the States of Florida,
Louisiana and Missouri, and for other purposes," claimants of
lands lying within those States by virtue of any grant, concession, order of survey, permission to settle, or other written evidence of title, emanating from any foreign government, bearing
date prior to the cession to the United States, were authorized

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

to make application for confirmation of their title to lands so
claimed, and the registers and receivers of the land offices in
Florida were appointed commissioners to hear and decide under
such instructions as might be prescribed by the commissioner
of the general land office, and according to justice and equity,
in a summary manner, such claims within the district aforesaid
as came within the provisions of the act. The claims were to
be divided into three classes, first, all claims which in their
opinion ought to be confirmed where the lands claimed had
been in possession and cultivation by the private claimants
or those under whom they derived title for a period of at least
twenty years preceding the date of the filing of the claim, by
virtue of some grant, concession, order of survey or permission
to survey, or other written evidence of title; second, all claims
which in their opinion ought to be confirmed, where the lands
were claimed under written evidence of title, but where there
had been no actual cultivation or possession for a period of
twenty years; third, all claims which in their opinion ought to
be rejected; that whenever the commissioner of the general
land office should approve the report of the commissioners in
cases embraced in classes first and second, he should report the
same to Congress for its action; and that whenever it should
appear that the lands claimed and the title to which might be
confirmed had been sold in whole or in part by the United
States prior to confirmation, or where the same could not be
surveyed or located, the party in whose favor the title was confirmed should have the right to enter upon any of the public
lands of the United States a quantity of land equal in extent to
that sold by the government.
Section 11 provided for proceedings where lands had not been
possessed or cultivated for twenty years, but were claimed "by
complete grant, or concession, or order of survey, duly executed,
or by other mode of investiture of the title thereto in the original claimant or claimants, by separation thereof from the mass
of the public domain," by petition in any District Court of the
United States, within whose jurisdiction the lands or any part
thereof might lie; and for an appeal from the decree to this
court.

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

Section 12 enacted that the act should remain in force for
five years, unless sooner repealed, "and all claims presented or
sued upon according to the provisions of this act within the said
term of five years, may be prosecuted to final determination and
decision, notwithstanding the said term of five years may have
expired before such final determination and decision."
The provisions of this act were extended by an act of June 10,
1872, 17 Stat. 378, c. 421, putting it in force for a period of
three years; and it was provided that all persons claiming land
as specified in the first section of the act might have their claims
confirmed, in all cases where it should be satisfactorily proved
that the claimants, and those from whom they derived title,
had "held continuous possession of the land claimed, from the
date of the cession to the United States of the territory out of
which" the State of Florida was formed.
.Mr. William W/idtwell Dew/ust for appellants.
fr. Horatio Bisbee,
_Xr. FTaneis P. Fleming for appellees.
Xr. FrancisP. Fleming,Jr., and ir. C. D. Rinehart were on
his brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after making the above statement of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
Appellees submitted motions to dismiss or affirm, the consideration of which was postponed to the hearing on the merits.
The contention is that the appeal should have been taken to
the Circuit Court of Appeals and not to this court.
We do not concur in that view. The bill alleged "that this
cause arises under the said treaty between the United States and
Spain, which ratified and confirmed said grant to the said Joseph Fish, under whom your orators claim title. And the controversy involved in this cause necessarily involves the construction of said treaty."
By motions to dismiss and demurrers appellants set up various objections to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, the disposition of which involved the construction of the treaty. These

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

being overruled, appellants by their answer admitted "that the
controversy involves the construction of the treaty between
Spain and the United States; . . . that perfect or complete
grants were recognized by the treaty with Spain, but incomplete grants were ratified by the treaty, to the same extent they
would have boen valid had the territory remained under the
King of Spain."
It was contended on the one hand that the title was absolutely
confirmed by the treaty, and on the other that as this was not
a suit brought under any of the acts of Congress in that behalf,
the treaty could not be held to be self-executing.
The pleadings, the evidence, and the master's report and opinion considered, we think that rights under the treaty were so
far set up and relied on as to give jurisdiction to the Circuit
Court, and to justify an appe~il from its decree directly to this
court. The record differs from that in fuse v. Arlington Iotel
Company, 168 U. S. 430, which fell short of affording adequate
grounds for the maintenance of our jurisdiction.
This is a bill to remove clouds on title, and rests on complainants' alleged legal title, connected with possession.
The general rule is that complainants in such suits must be in
actual possession. Frost v. SIpitley, 121 U. S. 552. And such
is the rule in Florida, where, however, it is enough if the land
be wild and unoccupied, or if some independent head of equity
jurisdiction exists. Richards v. Morris, 39 Florida, 205; Hughes
v. lHannah, 39 Florida, 365, 376; Sloan v. Sloan, 25 Florida, 53.
In this ease actual possession was claimed of a plantation
styled the Orange Grove, of about one hundred acres, situated
on what was called "Fish's" Island, which the master found
was not an island in itself, but part of Anastasia Island; and
constructive possession of the whole of Anastasia Island, a certain part excepted as reserved. Relief was not sought as to
the Orange Grove, and some homesteads, and proof was introduced tending to show that the tracts in controversy were wild
and unoccupied. It was insisted as to them that the legal title
drew possession to it.
The master found as matter of mixed law and fact that the
lands granted to Jesse Fish in 1795 were "an island, well known

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

and designated by name, and entirely surrounded by water,"
and that they were completely and sufficiently segregated from
the royal domain by proceedings taken under the decree of
1795, and Fish placed thereby in possession thereof; that the
grant and the segregation of the lands from the royal domain
constituted "a complete and perfect title to the said land, to
wit, to the whole of the island of St. Anastasia," certain lands,
"marked off by the officials as reserved," excepted.
He also found that "on August 31, 1823, Sarah Fish presented her memorial to the board of commissioners appointed
by Congress to investigate as to land claims in East Florida,
claiming title to the Island of St. Anastasia under the grant to
Jesse Fish in 1795, aggregating ten thousand acres of land;
that on December 16, 1825, the board of commissioners for
East Florida reported to Congress the claim of Sarah Fish, heir
to Anastasia Island, for ten thousand acres, as a valid claim for
confirmation, and that said claim was reported to Congress by
the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for confirmation, with his report under date of February 23, 1826."
The master ruled as matter of law "that the grant of Fish,
being a valid and complete title, properly segregated from the
public domain prior to January 24, 1818, stood ratified and
confirmed both by the King of Spain and the United States by
virtue of the eighth article of the treaty of cession. That this
grant, having been passed upon by the commissioners of East
Florida under the acts of Congress and reported by them to
Congress for approval as a valid grant in 1826, was further
confirmed as to its validity by the United States by the act of
Congress of May 23, 1828. That the limitation in the twelfth
section of the act of 1828 and the acts supplemental thereto
and amendatory thereof, enacted by Congress in regard to private land claims in Florida, did not apply to complete valid
grants of land properly segregated from the royal domain and
in possession by the grantees prior to January 24, 1818, and
therefore did and do not apply to the grant to Fish so as to bar
the present action."
If then the limitations of the acts of Congress properly applied to complete and perfect titles and this was such, or if they

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

applied to the claim of Fish because it was not such a title, or
under the particular circumstances, the conclusions reached
were erroneous, and the decree must be reversed.
And, apart from these limitations, if the grant did not amount
to an absolute title, requiring no confirmation, the bill, of course,
could not be maintained.
It must be remembered that this is not a suit under any of
the acts passed by Congress in reference to the settlement of
claims in East Florida, but entirely independent of them. According to the theory of appellees, those acts have no application
whatever. Appellees assert their title to have been absolutely
perfect and complete prior to the treaty, and, in any aspect,
they must stand or fall by their contention that the Fish grant
was a complete and perfect royal title.
And while we can perceive that equitable grounds may have
justified the recommendation to Congress for confirmation in
1826, we cannot hold as matter of law that a grant couched
in the terms of this one, and not made by the governor of East
Florida or ratified by him, was an absolute conveyance of the
fee.
By the Spanish law the King was the source and fountain of
title to all lands, which could only be disposed of by him, or
his duly authorized representative. In the Province of East
Florida the governor acted in the granting of lands in the name
and by the authority of the King as his direct representative.
It was in that point of view that Quesada described himself as
"vice royal patron and subdelegate of the royal domain." Quesada was governor from July 13, 1790, to July 20, 1796. His
last participation in the matter of Fish's application was on
March 26, 1795, when the papers were returned to Fish. What
appears afterwards purports to have been done by one Morales
during an alleged illness of the governor. There is nothing to
indicate that Governor Quesada was not in the exercise of the
duties of his office during his entire term, except the mere recitation in these papers. There is no evidence that Morales performed the duties of the office of governor unless the single
act under consideration is to be so treated, and that would not
make out a defacto incumbency, if there could be such, which,

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

as to the exercise of this power, we cannot concede. There is
no pretence that Morales was appointed governor pro tempore,
and indeed he could not have been save by the King, or the
captain general of Cuba and the Floridas, which appointment
would have been formally made and duly recorded. 2 White's
New Recopilacion, 270, 271. No evidence to that effect was
introduced. Morales clearly cannot be held to have had the
power to make a royal grant, nor was any ratification of what
he did do shown.
In United States v. Anredondo, 6 Pet. 691, and in United
States v. Peralta,19 How. 343, it was held in view of the rules
of decision prescribed by the statutes under which the courts
exercised jurisdiction, that it was the intention of Congress that
a claimant should not be required to offer proof as to the authority of the official executing the grant, but that the court would
assume as a settled principle that a public grant was to be taken
as evidence that it was issued by lawful authority. l3ut under
the act of March 3, 1891, creating the Court of Private Land
Claims, inasmuch as it was made essential before a grant could
be held legally valid that it must appear that the title was "lawfully and regularly derived," it was held that such presumption
could not be indulged in; that the language of the act imported
"that the court must be satisfied, from all the evidence, that
the official body or person assuming to grant was vested with
authority, or that the exercise of power, if unwarranted, was
subsequently lawfully ratified." 1hayes v. United States, 170
U. S. 637. The question involved in that case was whether the
territorial deputation of New Mexico had authority to make
the grant in controversy. Mr. Justice White, delivering the
opinion, said, among other things: "Further, while it is reasonable to presume that any order or decree of the supreme
executive of Mexico conferring authority to alienate the territorial lands or ratifying an unauthorized grant to the extent
authorized by law was made matter of official record, the petition does not aver and the grant does not recite, nor was there
any evidence introduced showing a prior authorization or subsequent ratification. In fact, it was not even shown that at or
about the time of the grant the territorial deputation habitually

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

assumed to grant lands, particularly under circumstances which
would justify an inference that the supreme executive was informed of such procedure."
In (respin v. United States, 168 U. S. 208, which was a case
under the act of 1891, it was held that the presumption indulged
in United States v. Arredondo could not supply the want of
power in the alleged granting officer.
In the case at bar, as we have said,
complainants were not
proceeding under any act of Congress permitting the United
States to be sued, but as at common law, and on the basis of
absolute legal title. That title they were obliged to make out,
and could only avail themselves of such presumptions as would
ordinarily obtain. Without going into the question of the presumptions which might on occasion be indulged in, it is enough
to say that it is clear that where the officer who assumed to convey the public domain had no authority ex offieio to do so, such
authority cannot be presumed from the mere fact of the conveyance in the absence of other evidence.
We do not think that Governor Quesada could have delegated
his power as subdelegate, and it cannot be assumed that he attempted to do so.
But, furthermore, we are not persuaded that Morales undertook to make an absolute grant in fee. le did not profess to
be acting as "Vice Royal Patron and Subdelegate of the Royal
Domain." The grant did not run in the name of the King; did
not purport to make the grant as "in absolute property;" did
not assert the legal right to make such a grant; and the terms
of the paper were consistent with a grant of possession merely,
or, at the most, of a concession, which required a title in form
to be subsequently issued.
The report of the land commissioners of January 31, 1826,
transmitting the Fish claim among others, (4 American State
Papers, "Public Lands," D. G. ed., 276,) states: "A royal title
is the highest order of title known by any law, usage, or principle, in the province of East Florida. Titles of this description
were designed to convey the fee simple to the grantee; they
were usually made by the acting governors of the province in
the name of the King; they recited the grant to be 'in perpe-

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

tuity,' and also the specific metes and bounds of the land.
This title may be said to correspond in character with that of a
patent issued by our Government. Concessions without condition are understood to differ from a royal title only in this, that
most of the latter recite the metes and bounds, whereas the unconditional concession, although definite in quantity and location of the land, is still subject to a survey; which, when made,
was followed up by maturing the concession by a royal title.
There is also a peculiarity in the phraseology of a royal
title; in all the grants of this nature, the legal right to grant
the lands is asserted."
The commissioners regarded the grant in question as a concession without condition, or with conditions fulfilled, and reported it as such for confirmation. They attributed it to the
royal order of 1790 in respect of settlers. 1 Clarke's Land Laws,
994, 996; 2 White, 276; United States v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 436.
Referring to class one, being claims to lands not exceeding
3500 acres in quantity, they made the observations already
quoted, and further said: "In deciding on the cases comprehended in this class, the board have in all cases of royal titles
and concessions without condition, where the documents were
found amongst the archives of the country, and no allegations
on the part of the United States appearing against them, considered themselves bound to grant certificates of confirmation
to the claimants. . . . Number three comprehends claims
exceeding 3500 acres, the titles to which were found amongst
the public archives of the country, and are ascertained by the
commissioners to be valid Spanish grants, and reported accordingly to Congress for confirmation."
The question on this branch of the case is not whether the
grant should have been confirmed, but whether it amounted to
a complete title without confirmation. At the time of the cession was further action of the government required to perfect
it? As it was not in itself a royal title and was neither made
nor confirmed by the lawful authorities of the King, we think
such action was necessary.
But were this otherwise it seems to us clear that the limitations of the acts of Congress applied.
VOL. CLxxx-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Articles II and VIII of the treaty between the United States
and Spain, concluded February 22, 1819, ratified by Spain, October 24, 1820, and by the United States February 19, 1821,
read as follows:
"Article II. His Catholic Majesty cedes to the United States,
in full property and sovereignty, all the territories which belong to him, situated to the eastward of the Mississippi, known
by the name of East and West Florida. The adjacent islands
dependent on said provinces, all public lots and squares, vacant
lands, public edifices, fortifications, barracks, and other buildings, which are not private property, archives and documents,
which relate directly to the property and sovereignty of said
provinces, are included in this article. The said archives and
documents shall be left in possession of the commissaries or officers of the United States, duly authorized to receive them."
"Article VIII. All the grants of land made before the 24th
of January, 1818, by His Catholic Majesty, or by his lawful
authorities, in the said territories ceded by His Majesty to the
United States, shall be ratified and confirmed to the persons in
possession of the lands, to the same extent that the same grants
would be valid if the territories had remained under the dominion of His Catholic Majesty. But the owners in possession of
such lands, who, by reason of the recent circumstances of the
Spanish nation, and the revolutions in Europe, have been prevented from fulfilling all the conditions of their grants, shall
complete them within the terms limited in the same, respectively, from the date of this treaty; in default of which, the
said grants shall be null and void. All grants made since the
said 24th of January, 1818, when the first proposal, on the part
of His Catholic Majesty, for the cession of the Floridas, was
made, are hereby declared, and agreed to be, null and void."
In the light of the Spanish text, to the effect that grants
should "remain ratified and confirmed," the treaty has been
frequently construed as meaning that grants needing no confirmiation should stand confirmed, while those requiring confirmation should receive it in due course as might be provided.
Undoubtedly private rights of property to land lying within
the territory ceded were entitled to protection, whether they

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

were complete and absolute titles, or merely equitable interests
needing some further act of the Government to perfect the legal
title. The duty of securing such rights belonged to the political department, and might be discharged by Congress itself, or
through the instrumentality of boards, or of strictly judicial
tribunals. And even grants which were complete at the time
of the cession might be required by Congress to have their genuineness and their extent established by proceedings in a particular manner before they could be held valid. Ainsa v. New
Mexico & Arizona Railroad,175 U. S. 76; Botiller v. Dominguez, 130 U. S. 238; United States v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 436; Glenn
v. United States, 13 How. 250.
In United States v. Clarke, the acts of Congress prior to 1834
were considered by Chief Justice Marshall, in the instance of a
complete and perfect grant. Referring to the act of May 26,
1830, the Chief Justice said: "It was obviously the intention
of Congress to extend the jurisdiction of the court to all existing claims and to have them finally settled. The purposes for
which the act was made could not be otherwise accomplished.
The words which confer jurisdiction, and describe the
cases on which it may be exercised, are ' all the remaining cases
which have been presented according to law, and not finally
acted upon.' The subsequent words 'shall be adjudicated,' etc.,
prescribe the rule by which the jurisdiction previously given
shall be exercised." Quoting from the sixth section of the act
of May 8, 1822, he said: "The object of this law cannot be
doubted. It was to separate private property from the public
domain for the double purpose of doing justice to individuals,
and enabling Congress safely to sell the vacant lands in their
newly acquired territories. To accomplish this object, it was
necessary that all claims of every description, should be brought
before the commissioners, and that their powers of inquiry
should extend to all. Not only has this been done, but, further
to stimulate the claimants, the act declares 'that any claim
not filed previous to the 31st of May, 1823, shall be deemed
and held to be void and of none effect.' This primary intention of Congress is best promoted by determining causes finally,
where their substantial merits can be discerned." He further

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

quoted the sixth section of the act of May 23, 1828, and from
the act of May 26, 1824, (referred to in the act of May 26,
1830,) and as to the latter act said that it "does not define the
jurisdiction conferred on the court of East Florida by the act
of 1830, but directs the mode of proceeding and the rules of
decision."
In Glenn v. United States, Mr. Justice Catron, referring to
the case of Arredondo, said: "That proceeding was founded
on a perfect title, having every sanction the Spanish government could confer. It was brought before the courts according
to the sixth section of the act of May 23, 1828, which embraced
perfect titles, and was only applicable to suits in Florida."
The cases of United Slates v. Arredon do, 6 Pet. 691 ; United
States v. Pereheman, 7 Pet. 51; United States v. Clarke, 8 Pet.
436, were all instances of complete and perfect titles brought
into court under these statutes.
Botiller v. Dogningaez was a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of California to review a judgment in favor of plaintiff
in an action in the nature of ejectment. Plaintiff's title was a
grant alleged to have been made by Mexico, but no claim under
the grant had ever been presented for confirmation to the board
of land coinmissioners appointed under the act of Congress of
March 3, 1851, c. 41, 9 Stat. 631 ; and no patent had ever issued
from the United States to any one for the land or any part of
it. The state court held that the title to the land by the Mexican grant was perfect at the time California was acquired, and
that the grantee was not compelled to submit the same for confirmation to the board of commissioners. This court ruled
that no title to lands in California dependent upon Spanish or
Mexican grants could be of any validity which had not been
submitted to and confirmed by the board provided for that purpose by the act of Congress, or, if rejected by that board, confirmed by the District Court or by the Supreme Court of the
United States. Two propositions were urged in support of the
decision of the state court. First, that the statute itself was
invalid because in conflict with the treaty with Mexico, and
also with rights of property under the Constitution and laws
of the United States. Second, that the statute was not intended

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

to apply to claims which were supported by complete and perfect title from the Mexican government, but only to such as
were imperfect, inchoate and equitable in their character. As
to the first of these propositions, this court held that so far as
the act of Congress was alleged to be in conflict with the treat'
with Mexico, that was a matter in which the court was bound
to follow the statutory enactments of its own Government. As
to the second point, it was held that the statute applied to perfect as well as imperfect claims, and Mr. Justice Miller, delivering the opinion, said:
"It was equally important to the object which the United
States had in the passage of it, that claims under perfect grants
from the Mexican government should be established as that
imperfect claims should be established or rejected. The superior force which is attached, in the argument of counsel, to a
perfect grant from the Mexican government had its just influence in the board of commissioners, or in the courts to which
their decisions could be carried by appeal. If the title was
perfect, it would there be decided by a court of competent
jurisdiction, holding that the claim thus presented was valid; if
it was not, then it was the right and the duty of that court to
determine whether it was such a claim as the United States was
bound to respect, even though it was not perfect as to all the
forms and proceedings under which it was derived. So that
the superior value of a perfected Mexican claim bad the same
influence in a court of justice which is now set up for it in an
action where the title is contested. Nor can it be said that there
is anything unjust or oppressive in requiring the owner of a
valid claim, in that vast wilderness of lands unclaimed, and
unjustly claimed, to present his demand to a tribunal possessing
all the elements of judicial functions, with a guarantee of judicial
proceedings, so that his title could be established if it was found
to be valid, or rejected if it was invalid. We are unable to see
any injustice, any want of constitutional power, or any violation
of the treaty, in the means by which the United States undertook to separate the lands in which it held the proprietary interest from those which belonged, either equitably or by a strict
legal title, to private persons. Every person owning land or

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

other property is at all times liable to be called into a court of
justice to contest his title to it. This may be done by another
individual, or by the government under which he lives. It is a
necessary part of a free government, in which all are equally
subject to the laws, that whosoever asserts rights or exercises
powers over property may be called before the proper tribunals
to sustain them."
We are of opinion that these acts applied and were intended
to apply to all claims, whether perfect or imperfect, in that particular resembling the California act; that the courts were bound
to accept their provisions; and that there was no want of constitutional power in prescribing reasonable limitations operating
to bar claims if the course pointed out were not pursued.
Mrs. Fish naturally took that view and memoralized the commissioners, who reported in favor of the claim, and the report
was transmitted to Congress in February, 1826.
The act of May 23, 1828, followed, which confirmed all claims,
which had been recommended for confirmation, of which this
was one, to the extent of a league square, but provided that the
confirmation should not be effectual until all the parties in interest in the original grant had filed a full and final release of all
claims to the residue contained in it, with the register and receiver of the district where the grant was situated. We do not
agree with the master that the effect of this was to confirm the
entire grant, but, on the contrary, we think that by the action
of Congress all of the claim except a league square was rejected,
and that as there was no release of the excess, the condition of
the confirmation failed.
And inasmuch as this was the situation, and claimants bad
neither accepted the league square nor availed themselves of
the legislation providing for resort to the courts, it was held
when the matter was litigated in the land department that
the claim was barred. The views there entertained were expressed by the Commissioner in his report of August 2, 1890,
and by the Secretary of the Interior in his decision of June 22,
1893. 16 Land Dec. 550. The land department was of opinion that even conceding that the claim was a valid grant from
the Spanish government for the full quantity of 10,000 acres,

FLORIDA v. FURMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

and that the act of May 23, 1828, which governed that, among
other claims, was in violation of the obligations of the treaty,
the department and the courts were bound to follow the statutory enactments of their own government, and must be controlled thereby, and that regarding the claim as coming within
the provisions of the acts o[ 1827 and 1828, its validity could
not be recognized because the claimants had failed to comply
with the conditions prescribed by these acts. All claims of
every description whatever, whether arising under patents,
grants, concessions or orders of survey, were required to be
submitted to the board of commissioners for confirmation, or to
be submitted to Congress for final action, before their validity
could be recognized, and all claims reported upon by the commissioners, whether founded upon a complete or an incomplete
title, were subject to the provisions of the act of Congress of
May 23, I,828, and barred in accordance with its provisions. If
the claim came within the provisions of the second section of
that act, its validity was recognized only to the extent of one
league square, and upon the condition that the claimant should
relinquish all in excess of that quantity on or before May 26,
1831. If it did not come within the provisions of said section,
then it was a claim not acted upon by Congress, and was barred
by failure to commence the proper proceedings in the courts
within the time limited in the sixth section of the act of
May 23, 1828.
We accept these conclusions, and with the less reluctance, as
if this were a perfect title as contended, resort to the courts might
again have been had under the acts of 1860 and 1872.
It seems to us that the Government was unquestionably entitled to demand the seasonable assertion of such claims as this,
and that years after the public surveys had been extended over
the land, and the maps and plats thereof approved; many reservations made for public purposes ; patents issued; homestead
entries made and final certificates issued; the exhibition of a
bill to set aside the patents of the Government by those who had
failed to comply with the statutes came undeniably too late.
In our judgment the bill cannot be maintained because complainants failed to show complete legal title from the King;

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

and because the claim was barred by the statutes to which we
have referred.
Decree reversed and cause remanded with a direction to dismiss the bill.
MR. JUSTICE SHIR s and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissented.

JOHNS v. WILSON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 67. Submitted November 11, 1900.-Decided March 1, 1901.

Under the practice in Arizona the grantee of a mortgagor, who has agreed
to pay the notes secured by the mortgage, may be held liable for a deficiency upon the sale of the mortgaged premises, in a direct action by the
mortgagee.
In such action the grantee of the original mortgagor is the party primarily
liable to the mortgagee for the debt, the relation of the grantee and mortgagor toward the mortgagee, as well as between themselves, being that
of principal and surety.
Where a decree of foreclosure and sale against the original mortgagor and
his immediate grantee is ineffectual, by reason of the fact that, a few
days before the filing of the bill, the grantee conveyed the premises to a
second grantee by a deed which was withheld from the record until after
the foreclosure proceedings had been begun, a bill will lie to set aside the
sale, to annul the deed upon the ground of fraud, and to decree a new
foreclosure and sale of the same premises.
While it is possible that the mortgagee might have been able to obtain relief by an amended bill in the original suit, a new action is the proper
remedy, where he has been mistaken in his facts, especially if such mistake has been brought about by the contrivance of the legal owners.

THIS was a complaint, in the nature of a bill in equity, under
the Arizona code, filed in the district court of Maricopa County,
by the appellee, Wilson, (who had already, in a prior suit, foreclosed a mortgage upon certain real estate against John M.
Armstrong, mortgagor, and Robert E. Daggs, purchaser of the
premises,) against Alvin L. Johns, subsequent purchaser pen-

