OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

MARX v. EBNER.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 126. Argued January 22, 1901. -Decided February 25, 1901.
Under section 56 of the Oregon Code referred to in the opinion of the court
as in force in the District of Alaska, when an affidavit shows that the defendant is a non-resident of the district, and that personal service cannot
be made upon him, and the marshal or other public officer to whom the
summons was delivered returns it with his indorsement that after due
and diligent search he cannot find the defendant, such proof is sufficient
to give jurisdiction to the court or judge to decide the question of foreclosure of a mortgage on real estate of the defendant situated in that
district.
In such a ease facts must appear from which it will be a just and reasonable inference that the defendant could not, after due diligence, be found,
and that due diligence has been exercised; and such an inference is reasonable when proof is made that the defendant is a non-resident of the
State, Territory or district, and there is an affidavit that personal service
cannot be made upon him within its borders and there is a certificate of
the marshal to the effect of the one which appears in this case.

TE appellant has appealed from a judgment of the District
Court of the United States for the District of Alaska dismissing his complaint. Both parties claim the property in dispute
from a common source of title, which is the Takou Mining and
Milling Company. The property consists of mining land in the
Territory of Alaska, of which the defendants are in possession,
and they claim title through a sale under a decree of foreclosure
of a mortgage of the property by the Takou Company, which
mortgage was executed at a time when the company was the
owner of the property.
After the execution of the mortgage the company conveyed
some, but not all, of the property covered by it to one Sylvester Farrell, subject to the mortgage, and after the foreclosure
and sale under the mortgage Farrell and wife and the Takou
Company sold and conveyed all of the property to the plaintiff, who claims to own the same subject to whatever may be

MARX v. EBNER.
Opinion of the Court.

due on the mortgage. He contends that the foreclosure proceedings under which the defendants claim title to the property were totally void, because the court in which they were
conducted never obtained jurisdiction by valid service of process
on the mortgagor company or upon Farrell. The facts upon
which the allegation of a lack of jurisdiction was based are set
out in full in the complaint, and the plaintiff asks that the defendants be decreed to be mortgagees in possession; that an
accounting may be had to ascertain the exact amount due on
the mortgage, which is alleged to be about $1000, and that
the defendants vacate the property and surrender the possession thereof to the plaintiff, and that the pretended decree of
foreclosure be annulled.
The defendants demurred to the complaint, the court sustained it, and upon the plaintiff refusing to amend, a decree
was entered finally dismissing his complaint, and from that
decree he has appealed to this court.
.r.

Scott Beebe for appellant.

_r. fenry E. Davis for appellees. Xr. William W. Dudley,
.h'.
I . Michener and Jr. R. A. Friedrichwere on his brief.
after stating the foregoing facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

JUSTICE PEOKHAm,

Counsel for the appellant admits that if the foreclosure proceedings operated to pass the title to the property mortgaged,
this decree must be affirmed. le contends, however, that it
appears on the face of the complaint that there was a want of
jurisdiction in the court to render any judgment whatever in
the foreclosure action, and that hence no title was conveyed to
the defendants by virtue of the foreclosure decree and the sale
thereunder. The record of the foreclosure action is set out in
the complaint, and the ground upon which the allegation of a
lack of jurisdiction is founded is the alleged defective charac,ter of the proof of the service of process by publication.
Section 56 of the code under which this service was made
reads as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

"When service of the summons cannot be made as prescribed
in the last preceding section, and the defendant after due diligence cannot be found within the State, and when that fact
appears by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court or judge
thereof, or justice of the peace, in an action in a justice's court;
and it also appears that a cause of action exists against the defendant, or that he is a proper party to an action relating to
real property in this State, the court or judge thereof, or a justice of the peace in an action in a justice's court, shall grant an
order that the service be made by publication of a summons in
either of the following cases."
Here follows a list of the cases in which an order for publication may be made, and it is not disputed that the case of the
foreclosure of a mortgage of land within the Territory was one
in which such publication could be ordered.
From the record in the foreclosure action it appears that process was issued to the marshal in Alaska on the 21st of December, 1893, and that it was returned by him to the clerk's office
January 2, 1894, with the following indorsement by him:
"United States of America,
District of Alaska,
:
"I hereby certify that the within summons came into my
hands for service on the 22d day of December, 1893, and that
after due and diligent search neither of the within-named defendants nor their agents could be found within this district.
"Dated at Juneau, Alaska, this 2d day of January, 1894."
With such summons and the return made thereon by the marshal was an affidavit made by the attorney for the plaintiff,
which, among other things, stated that the defendant, the Takou
Mining and Milling Company, was a foreign corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Oregon, and
that the defendant Farrell was not a resident of the District of
Alaska, but resided in the city of Portland in the State of
Oregon; that the defendant corporation was the mortgagor,
and that Farrell purchased from the mortgagor some of thle
property subsequent to the execution of the mortgage.
It also appeared from the affidavit that no officer of the de-

MARX v. EBNER.
Opinion of the Court.

fendant corporation resided within the District of Alaska, and
that the corporation had no managing agent or representative
within that district; that the post office address of its president
was No. 246 Washington street, Portland, Oregon, and that Portland, Oregon, was also the post office address of the defendant
Farrell; that the summons was duly issued out of the court to
the United States marshal for the District of Alaska, with directions to the marshal to serve the same upon the defendants;
that personal service of the summons could not be made on the
defendants, and the plaintiff therefore asked an order that the
service of the same might be made by publication. Upon this
proof an order was made by the judge of the court, which, after
reciting that it satisfactorily appeared to him that the defendants resided out of the district and could not, after due diligence,
be found therein, directed the publication of the summons in a
newspaper published at Juneau, Alaska, at least once a week for
eight weeks. The order was dated January-, 1894, and signed
by the judge. The summons was thereafter published as required by the order and a copy of the complaint was sent by
mail to each of the defendants at their post office address, as
directed, and as the defendants did not appear, judgment of
foreclosure and sale was given, and under the decree the premises were sold and the defendants have the title which passed
by the sale. The objection is made by the appellant that there
was no sufficient proof that the defendants, after due diligence,
could not be found, and therefore the court ordering the publication had no jurisdiction to make the order ; that the simple
statement of the marshal that defendants could not be found
after due and diligent search was no proof that any such search
had been made, and that it was necessary to show what had
been done in the way of searching for defendants, so that the
court could itself judge whether due diligence had been exercised. Taking the return of the officer, with the other facts
proved, we think this contention not well founded.
As to the case of the corporation, it appeared that it was a
foreign corporation organized under the laws of Oregon, that
none of its officers resided within the District of Alaska, and
that it had no managing agent or representative therein, and

OCTOBER TERMY,

1900.

Opinion of the Court.

that its president resided in Portland, Oregon. There is also a
distinct allegation in the affidavit of the attorney for the plaintiff, used to procure the order for publication, that the defendant Farrell was not a resident of the District of Alaska at the
time of the making of the affidavit, and that he resided in the
city of Portland, in the State of Oregon, and that personal service of the summons could not be made on him, and then there
is the return of the marshal stating that the summons came
into his hands on December 22, 1893, and that after due and
diligent search neither of the defendants or their agents could
be found within the district, and that certificate was dated January 2, 1894.
We think on these facts there was sufficient proof to give
the judge jurisdiction to determine the question before him, and
consequently his order for publication was valid. The order
was not alone based on the statement that the defendants could
not after due and diligent search be found, but there were the
other facts showing the non-residence of both parties; that there
was no managing agent or representative of the corporation
defendant within the district; and that neither could be personally served with process therein.
The cases referred to by the appellant are not opposed to
these views. There is nothing to the contrary in McCraciken
v. lanagan, 127 IN. Y. 493, cited by the appellant. At the
time of that decision, section 135 of the Code of Procedure of
that State provided that where the person on whom the service
of summons is to be made cannot after due diligence be found
within the State, and that fact appears to the satisfaction of
the court or a judge thereof, etc., an order for publication may
be made in the cases mentioned. The affidavit which in the
above case was held insufficient stated "that defendant is a
non-resident of this State nor can be found therein," leaving out
the statutory words "after due diligence," and for want of
those words, or of language substantially like them, the affidavit was held fatally defective, no proof of any effort to serve
being given.
The case of Kennedy v. New York Life Insurance &c. Companq, 101 N. Y. 487, was cited in the opinion, and the affidavit

MARX v. EBNER.
Opinion of the Court.

in that case stated that the defendants "cannot after due diligence be found within this State," and that they were residents
of other States named, and that the sumnmons " was duly issued
for said defendants, but cannot be served personally upon them
by reason of such non-residence." This alfidavit was held to be
sufficient, and the court said: "The statement as to due diligence is not absolutely an allegation of a conclusion of law or
an opinion, but, in connection with what follows, a statement
of facts which tend to establish that due diligence has been
used."
In McDonald v. Cooper, 32 Fed. Rep. 745, the Circuit Court
of the District of Oregon held that the affidavit to obtain the
order for publication must contain some evidence having a legal
tendency to prove that the defendant could not be found in the
State after due diligence, and the mere assertion of the fact was
insufficient, but it was also held that a statement of the facts as
to the residence and actual abode of the defendant, which shows
beyond a peradventure that a search for him within the State
would be unavailing, is sufficient. "Beyond a peradventure"
is stronger language than is necessary. It is seldom that such
certainty of proof is possible.
We think where the affidavit shows that the defendant is
a non-resident of the district and that personal service cannot
be made upon him, and the marshal or other public officer to
whom the summons was delivered, returns it with his indorsement that after due and diligent search he cannot find the defendant, such proof is sufficient to give jurisdiction to the court
or judge to decide the question. It is not to be expected that
positive proof that the defendant cannot be found within the
State or district will always be attainable. Facts must appear
from which it will be a just and reasonable inference that the
defendant could not after due diligence be found, and that due
diligence has been exercised, and we think such an inference is
reasonable when proof is made that the defendant is a nonresident of the State, and there is an affidavit that personal service cannot be made upon him within its borders and there is a
certificate of the marshal such as appears in this case. There
is, too, some presumption that the public officer who has received

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

the process for service has done his duty and has made the reasonable and diligent search for the defendant that is required.
Such presumption is not alone sufficient in the absence of all
proof of other facts, but when such other facts as appear in this
case are sworn to, it may add some weight to them as a presumption in favor of the performance of official duty.
Within this rule the proof in this case was enough to give
jurisdiction to the judge who granted the order to decide the
question.
We have not overlooked the other objections made by the
appellant relating to the invalidity of the decree, but we do not
regard it necessary to notice them further than to say that we
think they are not well founded.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.

NEW ORLEANS DEBENTURE REDEMPTION COMPANY v. LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 129.

Argued December 13, 14, 1900. -Decided

February 25, 1901.

For the purpose of procuring a decree enjoining a corporation from acting
as such on the ground of the nullity of its organization, it is not necessary that the individual corporators or officers of the company be made
defendants, and process be served upon them as such; but the State by
which the corporate authority was granted is the proper party to bring
such an action through its proper officer, and it is well brought when
brought against the corporation alone.

The State has the right to determine, through its courts, whether the conditions upon which a charter was granted to a corporation have been
complied with.

THis is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Louisiana, brought for the purpose of reviewing a judgment of
that court affirming a judgment of the Civil District Court for
the parish of Orleans, decreeing the charter of the corporation
plaintiff in error, under color of which it claimed corporate

