OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

District in a proper case, I cannot agree that the State of Illinois would be a necessary or proper party, or that this bill can
be maintained against the corporation as the case stands.
The act complained of is not a nuisance,per se, and the injury
alleged to be threatened is contingent. As the channel has
been in operation for a year, it is probable that the supposed
basis of complaint can now be tested. But it does not follow
that the bill in its present shape should be retained.
In my opinion both the demurrers should be sustained, and
the bill dismissed, without prejudice to a further application,
as against the Sanitary District, if authorized by the State of
Missouri.

My brothers

HARLAN

and

WHITE

concur with me in this dis-

sel;t

In re DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, No. 1.
In re DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, No. 2.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 13 and 14. Original. Argued January 21, 1901.-lDecided February 11, 1901.
Section 1088 of the Revised Statutes relates to cases in which the Court of
Claims is satisfied from the evidence that some fraud, wrong or injustice
has been done the United States as matter of fact, and this is so in its

application to tile District of Columbia under the act of June 16, 1880.
The motions for new trial involved in these cases were grounded on error
of law, to correct which the remedy was by appeal.
Resort cannot be bad to motions under section 1088 simply because on appeals in other similar cases it had been determined by this court that the
court below had erred.

T E case is stated in the opinion of the court.

XJr. Robert A.. lioward for the District of Columbia, petitioner.
iXTr. A. A. Hoehling, Jr., by leave of court, filed a brief in bealf of certain interested parties.

In re DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

These are petitions for mandamus. The petition in No. 13
sets forth in substance that the Court of Claims rendered judgment in favor of Thomas Kirby and against the District, June 10,
1895, due and payable as of January 1, 1876, under the provisions of two acts of Congress, of June 16, 1880, 21 Stat. 284,
c. 243, and of February 13, 1895, 28 Stat. 664, c. 87. No motion for new trial was made and no appeal was taken, and the
judgment, principal and interest, was paid.
From the petition in No. 14, it appears that Henry L. Cranford and Lindley M. Hoff man obtained judgment November 15,
1895, under the aforesaid acts, payable as of January 1, 1876,
which, principal and interest, was paid. No new trial was asked
for, but an application for an appeal was made and withdrawn.
February 15, 1897, on an appeal by the District of Columbia
from similar judgments in favor of other claimants, this court
decided that no interest was recoverable on the amounts claimed
until from the passage of the act of February 13, 1895. District of Columbia v. Johnson, 165 U. S. 330. Thereupon on
February 25, 1897, the District filed motions for new trial in the
cases involved here under section 1088 of the Revised Statutes,
brought forward from the act of June 25, 1868, 15 Stat. 75, c. 71,
which provides: "The Court of Claims, at any time when any
claim is pending before it, or on appeal from it, or within two
years next after the final disposition of such claim, may, on motion on behalf of the United States, grant a new trial and stay
the payment of any judgment therein, upon such evidence, cumulative or otherwise, as shall satisfy the court that any fraud,
wrong or injustice in the premises has been done to the United
States; but until an order is made staying the payment of the
judgment, the same shall be payable and paid as now provided
by law."
The ground or these motions was error in the allowance of
interest from January 1, 1876, or except from the date of the
judgments. The motions were denied for want of jurisdiction.
The act of June 16, 1880, provided for the settlement of all
outstanding claims against the District of Columbia, including

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

claims arising out of contracts made by the board of public
works, and conferred jurisdiction on the Court of Claims to
hear the same, applying all laws then in force relating to the
prosecution of claims against the United States, and giving
the District of Columbia the same right to interpose counterclaims and defences, and a like power of appeal, as in cases
against the United States tried in said court, and containing
the express proviso that " motions for new trials shall be
made by either party within twenty days after the rendition
of any judgment." The jurisdiction so conferred was afterwards enlarged by the act of February 13, 1895, which authorized the court to allow on claims like these the rates established
and paid by the board of public works, and added that whenever those rates had not been allowed in prior cases, the claimants should be entitled on motion made within sixty days after
the passage of the act to a new trial thereof.
Applications for leave to file petitions requiring the judges
of the Court of Claims to show cause why writs of mandamus
should not be issued directing them to hear, try and adjudge
the motions for new trial, having been presented to this court,
leave was granted, and rules to show cause were entered
thereon, to which the respondents made answer that the motions were overruled because the court bad no jurisdiction to
consider the same, as the statute required motions for new
trials to be made within twenty days after the rendition of
judgment.
In Ealer's Case, 5 C. Cl. 708, it was ruled that under the act
of June 25, 1868, now section 1088 of the Revised Statutes, it
could not be held that fraud, wrong or injustice had been done
by an error of law when there existed an ample measure of
redress by appeal, and Nott, J., delivering the opinion, said:
" The judgment in this case was deliberately considered by the
court after its merits had been elaborately argued by counsel.
If the court committed an error of law, the defendants had a
sufficient remedy, by appeal to the Supreme Court. If an error of fact was committed, arising from inadvertence or mistake, the court was willing to correct its oversight. But the
motion now made is grounded on a supposed error of law, or

ANSLEY v. AINSWORTH.
Statement of the Case.

rather upon a decision of the Supreme Court, pronounced in
another case since the judgment in this was rendered."
We concur in this view. It seems to us clear that the relief
contemplated by section 1088 was in respect of matters of fact
whereby some fraud, wrong or injustice had been done to defendants. Indeed the section provides that such new trials
shall be granted " upon such evidence, cumulative or otherwise, as shall satisfy the court that any fraud, wrong or injustice in the premises had been done." Ew varte Russell, 13
Wall. 664; Beclknap v. United Slales, 150 U. S. 588, 591. This
being so, it is unnecessary to consider whether the twenty-day
limitation of the act of 1880 operated in amendment of section 1088, for that section does not authorize motions for new
trial on the grounds upon which those in question rested.
As the Court of Claims 'was right in denying the motions, the
rules liereinbefore granted must be dischargedand the petitions dismissed, and it is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN concurred in the result.

ANSLEY v. AINSWORTH.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COURT IN THE INDIAN TERRITORY.
No. 136. Submitted December 20, 1900.-Decided February 11, 1901.

The legislation in respect of the United States court in the Indian Territory
considered: it is held that an appeal does not lie directly to this court
from a decree of the trial court in the Indian Territory, although the suit
in which the decree is rendered may have involved the constitutionality
of an act of Congress. Whether an appeal lies to this court from the Court

of Appeals of the Indian Territory in such cases is a question which does
not arise on this record.

THIS was a bill filed in the United States Court in and for
the Central District of the Indian Territory by W. H. Ansley,
M. H. Gleason and R. 0. Edmonds against N. B. Ainsworth

