GUSMAN v. MARRERO.
Syllabus.

There is nothing in either of those papers which show that
exceptional circumstances with reference to the sale to de Celis
did not exist. The petition makes a claim of title based on "a
deed of grant dated the seventeenth day of June of the year
eighteen hundred and forty-six, by Pio Pico, constitutional governor of the Californias, thereto duly authorized by the supreme
government of the nation and by a decree of the departmental
assembly of April third, eighteen hundred and forty-six."
The decision of the board recites that Pio Pico testified that
he had special instructions from his government to make the
grant, and the decision further recites that "the genuineness of
the grant is clearly established and the circumstances under
which it was made so clearly explained as to leave no doubt but
it was done in good faith."
The papers offered in evidence therefore, instead of showing
the non-existence of special circumstances with reference to the
sale to de Celis, which authorized the governor to make it, affirm the existence of those circumstances, and the contention
of plaintiffs in error is reduced to this dilemma: The papers ruled
out, the validity of the grant will be implied. The papers ruled
in, the validity of the grant will be shown.
Judgment afjrmed.

GUSMAN v. MARRERO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF
LOUISIANA.
No.223. Submitted December 3,1900.-Decided January 7, 1901.

The purpose of the proceeding in this case was to deliver from the custody
of the sheriff of the parish of Jefferson, Louisiana, a person who was
under sentence of death for the crime of assault with intent to commit
rape, of which he was convicted. The contention of the appellee was
that this was not an application for habeas corpus, nor for a writ of mandamus, but was an ordinary action. The appellant not only concedes
the fact, but asserts it. It follows necessarily that he has no cause of
action. The same result would follow if the court regarded the proceeding as one in habeas corpus.
yOL. CLXXX-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Yr. A. A. Birney and Yr. A. 1. Gusman for appellant.
.Mr.
Robert J. Perkins for appellee.
MR.JUSTIEN MCKENiNA delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellant has not ventured to give a specific name to this
action. The appellee claims that it is not an application for a
writ of habeas corpus, nor for writ of mandamus, (this word is
used in the prayer of the petition,) but that it is "an ordinary
action of which the appellant has no concern."
The purpose of the proceeding is to deliver from the custody
of the sheriff of the parish of Jefferson, State of Louisiana, one
Samuel Wright, who is under sentence of death for the crime
of assault, with intent to commit rape, for which he was convicted in the twenty-first judicial district court for the parish of
Jefferson.
The appellant's petition was filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and alleges
that he appeared on behalf of Nathan Wright. It further alleges that Wright was convicted of criminal assault with intent to commit rape and sentenced to death, and that Marrero
(appellee) as sheriff "proposes, under said sentence, and an order of execution lately received by him from Murphy J. Foster, governor, so called, of the State of Louisiana, to hang said
Wright on February 9, 1900, until dead, and will do so unless
restrained therefrom by this honorable court; . . . that said
conviction was obtained and sentence passed without due process of law, in direct violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of these United States; that the grand jury
that indicted Wright consisted of only twelve members, whilst
the fundamental law of the State, the constitution of 1879,
imperatively requires that the grand jury shall consist of sixteen members, and that the assent of at least thirteen of these
members shall be secured for the presentation of a true bill;"
and "that these fatal departures from an indispensable due

GUSMAN v. MARRERO.
Opinion of the Court.

process of law arose from the very erroneous beliefs of the
hon. judge of said district court and of Governor Foster, that
a so-called constitution of 1898 is the fundamental law of the
State, and not that of 1879 ; that they erred, and that the latter
is the real and valid constitution of Louisiana, petitioner in proof
presents the following counts and pleas."
There is a specification of reasons, under eight "counts and
pleas," why the constitution of 1898 is not the constitution of
the State. The reasons are all reducible to the general and
ultimate one that the constitution of 1898 was not adopted in
pursuance of the provisions of the constitution of 1879, and
"hence act No. 52 of 1896, (an act of the legislature,) generally
known as the constitutional convention law, goes far beyond
the limits of legislative authority, is ultra vires and absolutely
null and void, and everything done under it equally null and
void."
It is also alleged that certain other acts, to wit, acts Nos. 89
and 13 of 1896, are unconstitutional, because they reduce the
number of registered voters, and therefore are "not in any
sense an expression of sovereignty, and therefore of no force,
effect or validity." The particular reasons given are that the
acts are bills of attainder, ex post facto laws, violate the guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States, take away suffrage without due process of
law, make sweeping exemptions from additional qualifications
of the suffrage based upon wealth and money, do not provide
for ratification by the people of the State in compliance "with
the provisions of the Federal Constitution exacting from every
State of the Union a republican form of government."
The petition concludes as follows:
"Petitioner further shows in behalf of said Wright that the
aforesaid insurrectionary, revolutionary, usurpative and unconstitutional proceedings compel him to go outside of the state
courts, and to appeal to this hon. court for protection against
an ordered extrajudicial murder, under the well-established
maxim of constitutional law that state courts are not competent to pass upon the validity of the constitution under which

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

they themselves exist and from which they derive all their
power.
"Wherefore, the above duly considered, petitioner prays for
citation and service of petition upon the aforesaid Lucien H.
Marrero, sheriff of the parish of Jefferson, State of Louisiana,
commanding him to show cause, if any he has, why the Said
Nathan Wright, now in his illegal and wrongful custody, should
not be by him set at liberty.
"Petitioner further prays that, after all necessary services,
legal delays and due trial, there be judgment by this hon. court
mandamusing and ordering the said Lucien II. Marrero, sheriff
of the parish of Jefferson, to restore Nathan Wright to that
liberty he has been wrongfully depriving him of.
"Finally, petitioner prays for such general and special relief
for said Wright as the law and evidence may on trial show him
entitled to receive.
"Respectfully submitted.

(Signed)

"A. L.

GUSMAN.

"Before me, the undersigned authority, personally appeared
A. L. Gusman, to me known, who, being first by me duly sworn,
says that the above facts and allegations are true and correct;
that the aforesaid Wright has no adequate legal remedy in the
state courts of Louisiana for the denial of due process of law,
of which he is the victim, and that his only avenue of escape
from an unconstitutional sentence of death is an appeal to this
hon. court for justice and protection.

(Signed)

"A. L. GUSMAN.

"This done and subscribed in my office, city of New Orleans,
this 2d day of January, A. D. 1900.
" W. B. BAINETT, Not. Pub."
(Signed)
[SEAL.]
Upon the filing of the petition and without any action of the
court or of the Circuit Judge, the clerk or the court issued a citation, entitled in the cause and in the name of the President
of the United States, to Lucien -I. Marrero, sheriff of the parish
of Jefferson, and summoned him to comply with the demand
of the petition, (a copy of which accompanied the citation,) or

GUSMAN v. MARRERO.
Opinion of the Court.

to deliver his answer in the office of the clerk of the court
within ten days after service thereof, with increase of one day
for every ten miles Marrero's residence was distant from New
Orleans, the place where the court was held.
In due time Marrero, by attorney; filed exceptions to the petition on the ground that the court had no jurisdiction in the
case, and on the ground that the petition disclosed no cause of
action.
The answer concluded as follows:
"In the event that defendant's exception be overruled,
and only then, defendant answers that he holds no prisoner
named Martin Wright nor Nathan Wright, as alleged in plaintiff's petition, but that a man named Sam. Wright, now in his
custody as sheriff of the parish of Jefferson, was tried and convicted on Monday, the 11th day of December, 1899, before the
honorable the twenty-first judicial district court for the parish
of Jefferson, presided over by Hon. Emile Rost, judge, of
the crime of 'entering a dwelling house in the night time,
armed with a dangerous weapon, and, having so entered, having made an assault upon the body of a girl therein residing
with the felonious intent to commit rape.'
"Further answering, defendant alleges that, pursuant to a
subsequent order of the court aforesaid sentencing him to be
hanged, the said Sam. Wright was committed to custody of
defendant to await a day to be fixed by his excellency the
Governor of Louisiana for the execution of said Wright.
"Defendant alleges that Friday, February the ninth, has
been fixed by the Governor of Louisiana for the execution of
the orders of the said court.
"Whereupon defendant prays that plaintiff's petition be
dismissed."
The exceptions were set down for trial for the 2d of February, 1900, at eleven o'clock, and the petitioner's counsel was
ordered to be notified. On that day the exceptions came oil
to be heard, and were argued, submitted and sustained, and the
petition was dismissed.
On February 5, 1900, the petitioner, by his counsel, moved
for a new trial on the following grounds:

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

"First. That the court erred grievously and to Wright's
prejudice and injury in holding that this is a mandamus suit.
No writ is needed, none was asked, and the words ' mandamus '
and ' writ' are nowhere to be found in the petition. No perpetuation of the writ of mandamus that has no existence is
either asked or denied. The petition and prayer shows that
this is simply an ordinary action. The summons to the defendant Marrero evidences the same thing, and his exceptions
and answer are additional proofs of this fact.
"Second. The court also erred grievously when it refused to
allow a trial of the merits of the question, since this was necessary in order to show whether or not Sheriff Marrero, in holding
Wright in forcible custody under an assumption of governmental
authority, was not invading Wright's constitutional rights and
guarantees without due process of law.
"Third. The court also erred grievously and injuriously in
ruling that appearer's contentions as to jury trials and juries
are untenable, on the grounds that Amendments 4, 5, 6, 7 of
the Federal Constitution do not apply to state courts, as held by
the United States Supreme Court in the 110 U. S. Supreme
Court Report in a California case, the said court since then having held that they do.
"Fourth. That this hon. court furthermore grievously and injuriously erred in holding that appearer's eighth count involves
a political question over which Congress alone has jurisdiction.
This was once true, but it is so no longer, for Congress a number of years ago settled the question affirmatively, and it is
now the duty of this court to enforce this decision just as much
as it is its duty to enforce the provisions of the statutes of Congress.
" Fifth. The court additionally erred in holding that Wright
had no vaiid right of action, since a resort to mandamus proceedings was not the proper remedy. As no such resort was
ever made the decision is clearly erroneous."
The motion for new trial having been submitted to the court
it was refused.
A petition for appeal was presented assigning as errors substantially the grounds stated in the motion for new trial, and

TURNER v. RICHARDSON.
Counsel for Parties.

excepting to the court's action thereon. The appeal was allowed, and the case is here in consequence.
The contention of appellee is that this is not an application for
habeas corpus nor for writ of mandamus, but is an ordinary
action. The appellant not only concedes the fact, but takes
pains to assert it. It follows necessarily that he has no cause
of action. However friendly he may be to the doomed man
and sympathetic for his situation; however concerned he may
be lest unconstitutional laws be enforced, and however laudable
such sentiments are, the grievance they suffer and feel is not
special enough to furnish a cause of action in a case like this.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must therefore be affirmed.
Even if we regard the proceeding as one in habeas corpus, the
same result would follow. Davis v. Burke, 179 U. S. 399.

Judgment affirmed.
MR .

JUSTIcE

HARLAN

took no part in the decision.

TURNER v. RICHARDSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 408.

Submitted October 29, 1900.-Decided January 7,1901.

It is again decided that, to render a Federal question available on writ of
error from a state court, it must have been raised in the case before
judgment, and cannot be claimed for the first time in a petition for rehearing.

THIS was a motion to dismiss or affirm.
the opinion of the court.

The case is stated in

Xr. Frank L. Richardson and )r. Frank Souli for the motion.

Jib. Henry 1. -Lazarusand Ar. T N. Luce opposing.

