OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Syllabus.

who has therefore no interest in defeating it.'" That is, a legal
interest in defeating it. The objection of unconstitutionality
of a statute must be made by one having the right to make it,
not by a stranger to its grievance. "To this extent only is it
necessary to go, in order to secure and protect the rights of all
persons, against the unwarranted exercise of legislative power,
and to this extent only, therefore, are courts of justice called
Vellington, Petitioner, 16 Pick. 87, 96.
on to interpose."
It follows necessarily that the plaintiff in error has no legal
interest in the constitutional question which it raised, and upon
which it claims the right to come directly to this court from
the Circuit Court under section 5 of the act of 1891, supra.
To permit it to come here directly from the Circuit Court
would make a precedent which would lead to the destruction of
the statute. We repeat, the questions which can be raised under
any of the subdivisions of section 5 of the act must be real, the"
controversies they present must be substantial, not only from
the nature of the principles invoked, but from the relation of
the party to them by whom they are invoked.
Writ of error dismissed.

HOLLY v. MISSIONARY SOCIETY OF THE PROTESTANT EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 138. Argued December 21, 1900.-Decided February 25, 1901,

This is a case in which a court of equity is called upon to decide upon
which of two innocent parties is to fall a loss occasioned by the dishonesty of a third person. On the facts as stated by the court, it appears
thatthe relation thatexisted between Thompson, the executor of Dr. Saul
who left a legacy to the Missionary Society, and that society was that of
executor and legatee; that the relation between Thompson and Holly, the
purchaser of the estate sold by the executor, was that of attorney and client;
and that as between themselves, Holly and the society were absolute
strangers. The court, on the facts, holds that the pleadings and evi-

HOLLY v. MISSIONARY SOCIETY.
Statement of the Case.
denee fail to show any such dereliction of duty or supine negligence on
the part of the Missionary Society in demanding and enforcing payment
of the Saul legacy as would show, or even tend to show, that the society
knew, or had reason to believe, that Thompson was insolvent, or had
been guilty of any misappropriation of the property or funds of the Saul
estate; also that the evidence fairly showed that the Missionary Society
had appropriated the money received by it to the purposes appointed by
the testator, before any notice was given of the complainant's claim.
As against the Missionary Society Holly has no equities; and even if it
could be said that the equities were equal, a court of equity will not
transfer a loss that has already fallen upon one innocent party to another
party equally innocent.

Tnis was the case of a bill in equity filed in January, 1891,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, by James Holly, a citizen of the State of
Pennsylvania, against the Domestic and Foreign Missionary
Society of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United
States of America, a corporation of the State of New York,
and E. Walter Roberts, treasurer of the same.
The case came to issue on bill, answer and replication. Evidence was adduced by the respective parties, and certain exhibits and stipulations were filed.
The principal facts disclosed by the pleadings and evidence
were these:
On December 23, 1887, the last will of Rev. James Saul, D. D.,
was duly proved and letters testamentary thereon granted by
the register of wills in and for the city and county of Philadelphia to Rev. Benjamin Watson, D. D., and Henry C. Thompson, executors named in said will. In and by said will the
testator bequeathed the whole of his estate to "the following
institutions and in the following proportions, viz., to the Domestic and Foreign Missionary Society of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States of America, three fourths of
the whole of my said estate, conditioned that the amount thus
bequeathed shall be appropriated by said society in equal proportions of one-third to domestic missions, one third to foreign
missions and one-third to the benefit of the colored people in
the Southern or formerly slave States for the sup port of schools
and missions," The remaining one fourth of the whole of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

said estate he gave and bequeathed to the Theological Seminary
near Alexandria, Virginia. By a codicil the bequest to the
theological seminary was revoked, the testator having substituted therefor a donation of one hundred shares Pennsylvania
Railroad stock, and which he had transferred to the trustees of
the seminary; and by a later codicil, the testator further gave
and devised to the Domestic and Foreign Missionary Society
of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States of
America all the residue of his estate.
Neither the amount of the estate, nor the property of which
it consisted, was mentioned in the will or codicils; but it appeared that, in addition to about $2493.03 cash, the testator
was possessed of bonds of the North Pennsylvania Railroad
Company and of the United Railroads of New Jersey, and in
their account filed in the orphans' court of Philadelphia County
the executors charged themselves with $17,268.03 as the amount
of the estate. This account was confirmed on November 5, 1889,
showing a balance in the hands of the executors of $14,927.54,
which was awarded by the court to the Domestic and Foreign
Missionary Society.
On June 19, 1890, the executor, Henry C. Thompson, called
at the office of the defendant society in New York city, and
handed to Roberts, the treasurer, a memorandum showing the
above balance $14,927.54 awarded to the society by the decree
of the orphans' court, from the Saul estate, and $650 dividends
received since and not included in the account, making a total
of $15,577.54. For this sum Thompson gave a check in the
following words and figures:
"$15,577.54

PHILADELPHIA,

June 19, 1890.

" THE UNION TRUST COMPANY,
"Nos. 715, 717, 719 Chestnut Street.

"Pay to the order of the Domestic and Foreign Miss. Soc.
of the P. E. Church fifteen thousand five hundred seventyseven -101 dollars.
11. C. THOMPSON."
"No. 623.
Roberts, the treasurer, handed Thompson a receipt, as follows;

HOLLY v. MISSIONARY SOCIETY.
Statement of the Case.

" NEW YORK, June 19, 1890.
"Received from executors estate of James Saul, late of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, fifteen thousand five hundred seventyseven 1%4 dollars ($15,577.54).
"GEORGE BLISS, Treasurer,
"Per E. WALTER ROBEI S, Assistant Treasurer."

Thompson's check was deposited by Roberts, treasurer, in
the Bank of New York, for general account of the Foreign
and Domestic Missionary Society of the Protestant Episcopal
Church in the United States of America, by which bank the
check was forwarded for collection to the Bank of North America of Philadelphia, and was to that bank paid, on June 21, 1890,
by the Union Trust Company of Philadelphia.
The proceeds of this check were deposited in the general bank
account of the Missionary Society, and were applied, with other
moneys of the society, to domestic, foreign and colored missions,
before the society was notified of the claim asserted in the bill
of complaint.
In May, 1890, James Holly, a resident of Philadelphia, bought
at auction for $12,000 a house and lot situated upon North Fifteenth street in that city. He took the title papers to H. C.
Thompson, who had previously been employed by him, and
requested Thompson to have proper conveyances made. As
some of those interested in the sale resided elsewhere there
was some delay in getting the papers signed. Finally, on
June 19, 1890, Holly called on Thompson, who told him that
the papers were ready, and asked for a check to meet the purchase money. Thereupon Holly gave him a check in the following form:
June 19, 1890.
"The Fidelity Insurance, Trust & Safe Deposit Co., pay to
Henry C. Thompson, attorney, or order, twelve thousand dollars.
JAMES HOLLY."
"$12),000.
"PHILADELPHIA,

And Thompson gave Holly a receipt, as follows;

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

June 19, 1890.
"Received from James Holly, twelve thousand dollars, and
J. A. Freeman's receipt for $200, to be applied to purchasing
house, No. 643 North Fifteenth street.
"$12,000.
(Signed)
H. C. THomrsoii."
" PHILADELPHIA,

Holly never afterwards saw Thompson, but on July 15, 1890,
was informed by Morgan, one of the vendors of the property
purchased, that Thompson was lying at a hospital in Jersey
City, where he had attempted suicide.
Taking alarm Holly consulted Mr. Burton, as an attorney,
and it was discovered that Holly's check on the Fidelity Insurance, Trust & Safe Deposit Company in favor of Thompson for
$12,000, dated June 19, 1890, had been by Thompson that day
deposited in the Union Trust Company, Philadelphia, and that,
by a check of June 19, 1890, in favor of the Domestic and Foreign Missionary Society of the P. E. Church in the United States
of America, Thompson had drawn out $15,577.54, leaving a
balance in his favor of $72.41.
According to the finding of the Circuit Court this check in
favor of the Domestic and Foreign Missionary Society was, to
the extent of $10,028, paid by the Union Trust Company out of
the moneys realized from. Holly's check to Thompson ; and that
court decreed against the Missionary Society in favor of the
complainant for that amount. 85 Fed. Rep. 249.
Upon appeal the decree of the Circuit Court was reversed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and the
bill directed to be dismissed, (92 Fed. Rep. 745,) and thereupon
the case was brought to this court by a writ of certiorari.
_2ifr. John 0. Johnson for Holly. ir. Matthew Verner Simpson and Mr. Cephas Brainerdwere on his brief.
_37r. Jitdlien T. Davies for the Missionary Society.
bert Barry was on his brief.

lr.

Her-

M . JUSTICE SIRIIAs, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a case in which a court of equity is called upon to de-

HOLLY v. MISSIONARY SOCIETY.
Opinion of the Court.

cide upon which of two innocent parties is to fall a loss caused
by the dishonesty of a third person. The relation that existed
between Thompson and the Missionary Society was that of
executor and legatee; between Thompson and Holly, that of
attorney and client. As between themselves, Holly and the
Missionary Society were absolute strangers.
Our examination of the pleadings and evidence fails to show
any such dereliction of duty or supine negligence on the part of
the Missionary Society in demanding and enforcing payment
of the Saul legacy as would show, or even tend to show, that
the society knew, or had reason to believe, that Thompson was
insolvent, or had been guilty of any misappropriation of the
property or funds of the Saul estate. It is true that the legacy
was not paid as promptly as the society had reason to expect,
but there was nothing unusual about such a delay.
The very fact that Rev. Dr. Saul had selected Thompson to
be one of his executors authenticated him to the society as a
trustworthy person, and while it is true that Rev. Mr. Watson,
who was a co-executor, in letters answering inquiries by the
secretary of the society in April and May, 1890, admitted that
Thompson was dilatory in settling the estate, there was nothing to justify suspicion on the part of either Mr. Watson or of
the society that there was anything wrong in Thompson's dealings with the estate. Accordingly we are fully satisfied that,
when Thompson called upon the society at the New York office,
on June 19, 1890, and paid the amount shown to be due the
society by the account of the executors in the orphans' court
of Philadelphia County, approved November 23, 1889, together
with the additional sum of $650 received after and not included
in the account, there was nothing, either in the previous transactions, or in the form of the payment by Thompson's check, to
put the society upon notice, or to have justified the treasurer in
refusing to accept the payment. When Thompson's check was
paid the following day and the proceeds bad gone into the bank
account of the Missionary Society, the matter was fully closed
between the executors of Saul's estate and the society.
Beyond this, we think the evidence fairly shows that the Missionary Society had appropriated and expended the money so
VoL. CLXXX--9

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

received, to the purposes appointed by the testator, before any
notice was given of the complainant's claim. While such use
and application of the money might not exonerate the society
from liability, if they had received the money in circumstances
that visited them with notice of Thompson's dishonest conduct
towards Holly, yet if the money, received in good faith by the
legatee, had actually and bonafide been applied and expended
for the use of the beneficial purposes appointed in the will, without knowledge of Holly's claim, or, indeed, that such a man existed, we think a court of equity would refuse to hold the society as a trustee ex maleftcio.
The learned Judge of the Circuit Court, speaking of this aspect of the case, does indeed say:
"Some suggestion is made that this was received as a charitable bequest, and so applied that it had gone beyond reach, and
cannot be recovered. But the defendant has not shown that this
particular money has been applied to any particular purpose as
coining from Saul, or otherwise than as it would use its general
funds in the furtherance of its objects, nor that any of this particular money was applied to any of its purposes."
If this statement is to be understood to mean that the money,
bank notes or specie, actually received on Thompson's check,
was not immediately and in form applied to the beneficial purposes named in Saul's will, it may be true; indeed, it appears
that the proceeds of Thompson's check were paid into the Bank
of New York for general account of the Missionary Society, and
that thus the identity of the bank notes or specie was lost in
the credit account of the society in that bank. But it is not
perceived that such a state of facts disabled the society from
having the advantage of showing that money to an equal
amount was appropriated and applied by them, out of their
general account, to the purposes appointed by the testator. To
demand that such a society should make special deposits of legacies received, so as to be able to trace the application of such
deposits into the hands of beneficiaries in the same form as
when received, would be, in the highest degree, unreasonable.
If, however, the meaning of the learned judge was that it
did not distinctly appear that the Missionary Society had ap-

HOLLY v. MISSIONARY SOCIETY.
Opinion of the Court.

propriated and applied an amount of money equal to that received from the Saul estate to the purposes appointed in the
will, before any notice was received of Holly's claim, we are
constrained to decidedly dissent from such a view.
In the bill of complaint the defendants were explicitly called
upon to answer under oath whether, and in what circumstances,
they had received money from Thompson, and particularly
whether such money had been received as coming from the estate of James Saul, deceased, and whether they had not received
a letter from plaintiff's attorney, on or about July 17, 1890, notifying them that the moneys so received by the defendants
through Thompson's check came from moneys belonging to
Holly. To these allegations and interrogatories the defendants
answered, denying any knowledge or belief on their part of the
transactions between Thompson and Holly "until long after
the receipt by defendants and expenditure of the $15,577.54
referred to; and these defendants, further answering, allege
that at the time of the notification hereinbefore referred to and
the receipt by the defendant society of the letter from plaintiff's
attorney, these defendants had expended, in the usual course of
their business and according to the will of the said Rev. James
Saul, the said sum of $15,577.54."
To this portion of the answer the plaintiff filed exceptions
for insufficiency, as follows:
"In not stating how the defendants have expended the
$15,577.54, what the items of expenditure were and the respective dates of such items of expenditure, and how and in
what respect the said moneys were expended according to the
will of the Rev. James Saul, deceased, and what was the usual
course of business of defendant's society in making said expenditure of said moneys, whether the same was expended by
standing order or special resolution of the board of managers
of the society defendant, or otherwise."
Thereupon the defendants, responding to these exceptions,
filed a supplemental answer, as follows:
"These defendants, further answering, allege that the moneys received as aforesaid from Ienry C. Thompson, executor,
were expended by the defendant society for domestic missions,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

foreign missions and for the benefit of colored people in the
Southern, or formerly slave, States, for the support of schools
and missions, through its officers, acting partly under the general direction of the board of managers and partly under a
resolution of said board passed on the tenth (lay of June, 1890,
authorizing the treasurer to apply such legacies as might be
received before September 1, 1890, to the payment of appropriations to September I., 1890-of which resolution a copy is
hereto annexed and marked ' P.'"
The copy of the resolution was as follows:
"Resolved, that the treasurer be instructed to apply so much
of the gross amount received from domestic and general legacies to September 1, 1890, as may be required toward the
appropriations for corresponding work to same date."
It was also made to appear that, on June 20, 1890, the balance in bank to the credit of the Missionary Society was
$43,569.83. On that day the balance was increased by the
proceeds of Thompson's cheek $15,577.54 and other money to
$60,110.09; and that, by checks drawn between June 20 and
July 18, the day on which the letter of Holly's attorney was
received, the sum of $88,589.74 was drawn out; aggregating
more than the sum of Thompson's check and the balance on
band when it was received, and it was shown that these payments were on account of domestic, foreign and colored missions and office expenses.
It is true that, owing to further receipts between June 20
and July 18, 1890, there was a balance on hand in bank on the
latter day, but those receipts were themselves trust funds, contributed and held for the charitable purposes of the society.
It need scarcely be said that a court of equity will not interfere with the proper application of such funds by constraining
the society to divert them to relieve Holly. This, of course,
was not the case of a running account between debtor and
creditor, where the general rule is that the debtor has a right,
if he pleases, to make the appropriation of payments; if he
omits it, the creditor may make it; if both omit it, the law will
apply the payments according to its own notions of justice.
Here there was no relation of debtor and creditor between the

HOLLY v. MISSIONARY SOCIETY.
Opinion of the Court.

Missionary Society and Holly, and the latter cannot be heard
to complain of the application by the society of the money received from Thompson, executor, to the purposes prescribed by
the testator, nor to demand that moneys subsequently received
by the society from third persons for specific charitable purposes shall be used to indemnify him from loss occasioned by
trusting his money with his attorney.
From the numerous cases cited we think it sufficient to refer
to two or three which resemble in their facts the case in hand,
and in which were laid down principles now applicable.
Stephens v. Board of Education, 79 N. Y. 183, was a case where
one Gill, who was a member of the board of education of the
city of Brooklyn, had converted to his own use the money of
the board, and so became indebted to it in the amount thus subtracted. Gill forged a mortgage upon the land of another and
sold it to Stephens, receiving from him the proceeds and depositing them to his own credit. le then drew a check for the
amount of his debt to the board of education, and with it paid
that debt in full. The court held that Stephens could not recover
the money from the board, saying:
"It is absolutely necessary for practical business transactions
that the payee of money in due course of business shall not be
put upon inquiry at his peril as to the title of the payer. Money
has no earmarks. The purchaser of a chattel or a chose in action
may by inquiry in most cases ascertain the right of the persons
from whom he takes the title; but it is generally inpracticable
to trace the source from which the possessor of money has derived it. It would introduce great confusion into commercial
dealings if the creditor who receives money in payment of a debt
is subject to the risk of accounting therefor to a third person
who may be able to show that the debtor obtained it from him
by felony or fraud. The law wisely, from considerations of
public policy and convenience and to give security and certainty
to business transactions, adjudges that the possession of money
vests a title in the holder as to third persons dealing with him
and receiving it in due course of business and in good faith upon
a valid consideration. If the consideration is good as between the
parties, it is good as to all the world. ' Money,' said Lord Mans-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

field in Miller v. Race, 4 Burr. 452, 'shall never be followed
into the hands of a person who bonafide took it in the course of
currency and in the way of his business.' "
In hatch v. National Banc, 147 N. Y. 184, the agent of
Hatch procured a loan upon stock which he had fraudulently converted. He then with the money thus procured paid an antecedent debt which he owed to the bank. The court said:
"This doctrine goes upon the ground that money has no earmarks, that in general it cannot be identified as chattels may be,
and that to permit in every case of the payment of a debt an inquiry as to the source from which the debtor derived the money
and a recovery if shown to have been dishonestly acquired, would
disorganize all business operations, and entail an amount of risk
and uncertainty which no enterprise could bear. The rule is
founded upon a sound general policy as well as upon that principle of justice which determines, as between innocent parties,
upon whom the loss should fall under the existing circumstances."
In State Bank v. United States, 114 U. S. 401, it was held
that where, by the connivance of a clerk in the office of an assistant treasurer of the United States, a person unlawfully obtains
from that office money belonging to the United States, and to
replace it pays to the clerk money which he obtains by fraud
from a bank, the clerk having no knowledge of the means by
which the latter money was obtained, the United States are not
liable to refund the money to the bank.
The case made out for the appellant Holly does not require
extended notice.
Let it be conceded that he was not, in the circumstances, estopped from following his money into the hands of the Missionary Society, by having entered an attachment against Thompson
for a fraudulent conversion of his money; let it also be conceded
that, by trusting his money with Thompson, who had theretofore been his attorney, and whose standing in the community
was good, he was not guilty of conduct so reckless and negligent as to, of itself, deprive him of a remedy ; yet his case fails
in the essential particular that he has not shown that the Missionary Society, in receiving from Thompson, executor, the

ROBINSON v. SOUTHERN NAT. BANK.
Syllabus.

money due from the estate of Rev. Dr. Saul, and in applying it
in accordance with the appointments in the will, acted with any
notice or knowledge, actual or imputable, that Thompson was
misapplying funds intrusted to him by a third person with whom
the society had no relations whatever. As against the Missionary Society, Holly, in the circumstances disclosed, has no equities; and even if it could be said that the equities were equal, a
court of equity will not transfer a loss that has already fallen
upon one innocent party to another party equally innocent.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second Circuit is
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

did not hear the argument, or take part

in the decision.

ROBINSON v. SOUTHERN NATIONAL BANK.
ERROR TO THE CIRC IT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 137.

Argued December 20, 21, 1900.-Decided February 25, 1901.

The State National Bank of Vernon, Texas, having become insolvent, Robinson was appointed receiver, and the Comptroller made an assessment
upon the stock and its owners. This action was brought to recover such
assessment from the Southern National Bank. One hundred and eighty
shares of the stock so assessed were the property of one Curtis. His
certificates were deposited with the Southern Bank as collateral, but the
stock remained in his name, and so continued till the commencement of
this suit. t1eld, that the case was not one in which the bank was estopped by having assumed an apparent ownership of the stock.
By the mere act of bidding in this stock at a nominal price, the Southern
National Bank is not to be regarded as having subjected itself to liability
as the real owner thereof.
As between the Southern National Bank and Curtis and Thomas, the bank
is under no legal or equitable obligation to assume or answer for the assessment made by the Comptroller on the stock.
California Bankc v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362, and Concord Bank v. Hawkins,
174 U. S. 364, followed; but this court is not disposed, at present, to push
the principle of these cases so far as to exempt such banks from liability
as other shareholders, when they have accepted, and hold stock of other

