CONNERS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

CONNERS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COUWT OF CLAIMS.
No. 44. Argued December 17, 1900.-Decided February 11, 1901.

Where a band belonging to the Cheyenne Indians became dissatisfied with
their reservation, separated themselves from the main body of the tribe,
started northward to regain their former reservation, were pursued by
the troops, were defeated in battle, became hostile and committed depredations upon citizens, it was held that neither the Government nor the
tribe to which they had originally belonged, were responsible for the value
of property taken or destroyed by them.

THIS was also, as in the last case, a claim for live stock taken
and destroyed in October, 1878, by certain bands of the Cheyenne and Arapahoe Indians, the suit being against the United
States and Dull Knife's and Little Wolf's bands of Northern
Cheyennes and the Northern and Southern Cheyennes and
Arapahoe Indians. Defendants disclaimed responsibility upon
the ground that the depredation was committed by an independent band of Indians, not then in amity with the United
States.
The Court of Claims made a finding of facts, the material
article of which is set forth in the margin.'
1

Finding of Facts.

In May, 1877, 937 Northern Cheyennes, men, women and children, were
removed from the Red Cloud reservation at Fort Robinson, in Nebraska, to
the Southern Cheyenne and Arapahoe reservation at Fort Reno, in the
Indian Territory. The Cheyennes went voluntarily, though reluctantly,
relying in part upon representations made to them that the southern reservation would be a desirable home, and in part upon what they understood
to be assurances that, if dissatisfied with it, they should be brought back.
The body of Indians was composed of subdivisions of the Cheyenne tribe
known as the bands of Dull Knife, Little Wolf, Wild Hog and Old Crow.
These so-called bands had no automony, and had not been recognized
either by the Government or by the tribe as separate entities. They were
natural segregations of civilized Indians, leading a nomadic life and living
in groups in a widely extended habitat. The so-called chiefs were leaders

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

Upon these findings of fact the court decided as a conclusion
of law:
The bands of Dull Knife and Little Wolf, at the time when
or spokesmen, commonly called head men. The Indians so removed were
about one half of the entire tribe.
On the reservation at Fort Reno, the Cheyennes of Dull Knife's and Little.Wolf's bands lived apart from other Indians on the reservation. They
were dissatisfied, and made repeated applications to the Government to be
brought back to what they termed their native country in the Northwest.
No notice being taken of their request, 320 of them broke away from the
reservation on September 9, 1878. The commanding officer at Fort Reno
sent a military force in pursuit. "The officer in command was particularly
instructed if he could induce the Indians to come back without resort to
force to do so."
The Cheyennes were overtaken at a point 120 miles distant from Fort
Reno. The officer in command summoned them to yield and return to the
reservation. Little Wolf, as spokesman for the Cheyennes, replied in substance that they did not wish to make war, but that they would rather die
than go back. The troops immediately fired upon the Cheyennes, who returned the fire, and then fled and escaped. They made their way across
Kansas and Nebraska, twice fighting United States troops and likewise a
body of armed citizens who attacked them. In the northern part of Nebraska they were intercepted by other troops, and after some fighting they
surrendered on the 3d of October, and were taken to Fort Robinson. Shortly
before this surrender, Little Wolf with about half of the party had separated from Dull Knife, and he and his party were not included in the surrender. Old Crow and Wild Hog, with some of their bands accompanied
Dull Knife's party in this escape from the Indian Territory. The leading
chief was Dull Knife, and the Indians, regarded as a military force, were
under his command. The band at the time of the surrender consisted of
49 men, 51 women and 48 children.
Up to the time these Cheyennes were fired upon in the Indian Territory
by the pursuing troops they had committed no atrocity and were in amity
with the United States and desired to remain so. After they were fired
upon, as before described, their flight was characterized by the usual characteristics of Indian warfare. During the period of this fighting-that is
to say, between the 9th of September and the 3d of October, 1878-the
Northern Cheyennes, both in the Indian Territory and on the northern reservations, were in amity with the United States.
On these specific facts the court finds the ultimate facts, that at the time
when the depredation above set forth was committed the tribe of Northern
Cheyenne Indians was in amity wit h the United States, with the exception
of those who composed the bands of Dull Knife and Little Wolf, and that
the bands of Dull Knife and Little Wolf were not in amity.

CONNERS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the depredation was committed, were independent bands of Indians within the intent and meaning of the Indian depredation
act, 1891; and the tribe of Northern Cheyennes, the defendants herein, was not responsible for their acts of depredation,
and the petition should be dismissed. 33 C. Cl. 317.
hXr. William Il Robeson for appellant.
King was on his brief.

.1r.

Willian B.

_1&. Assistant Attorney General Tliompson and fr. IKie Oldham for appellees.
ir. L1ncoln B. Smith was on hlfr. Tliompson's brief.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.

The opinion of the Court of Claims sets forth with more fullness than the findings the details of one of the most melancholy
of Indian tragedies-a shocking story of nearly a thousand of
the Northern Cheyenne tribe removed from the Red Cloud
reservation in Nebraska to the Southern Cheyenne and Arapahoe reservation, at Fort Reno in the Indian Territory; of the
profound dissatisfaction of Dull Knife's and Little Wolf's bands,
who lived apart from the other Indians on the reservation, and
made repeated applications to the Government to be returned
to what they termed their native country in the Northwest;
of no notice being taken of their request, when over three hundred of them broke away from the reservation ; of a military
force from Fort Reno sent in pursuit of them with particular
instructions to induce the Indians to come back without resort
to force, if possible; of their being overtaken one hundred and
twenty miles from Fort Reno; of an order to return to the
reservation and a reply in substance that they did not wish to
make war, but that they would rather (lie than go back. The
troops immediately fired upon them ; they returned the fire,
fled and escaped; made their way across Kansas and Nebraska,
twice fighting the troops as well as a body of armed citizens
who attacked them. They were finally intercepted by other
troops, and, after some fighting, surrendered on October 3,
VOL. CLXXX-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

1878, and were taken to Fort Robinson, their former reservation in Nebraska. It was two days before the surrender, October 1, 1878, that the property of the claimant is found to have
been taken or destroyed by these Indians. Up to the time they
were fired upon by the pursuing troops in the Indian Territory,
they had committed no atrocity, were in amity with the United
States and desired to remain so. After they were fired upon
their flight was characterized by the usual excesses of Indian
warfare. The leading chief was Dull Knife, who was accompanied by Old Crow and Wild Hog with some of their bands,
but, regarded as a military force, they were under the command
of Dull Knife. The band at the time of the surrender consisted
of forty-nine men, fifty-one women and forty-eight children.
The main body of the Northern Cheyennes, to which these
bands seem to have originally belonged, both in the Indian
Territory and on the Northern Reservation, were in amity with
the United States. Although these bands, under the leadership
of Dull Knife, were evidently driven into hostility with the
United States by the action of the troops in firing upon them
pending a peaceful effort to induce them to return to their reservation, and thereby instituting an Indian warfare, the fact still
remains that this was an independent band which had broken
away from the main body of the Cheyennes, and was acting in
hostility to the United States and to all the frontiersmen along
their path of retreat. As stated in the opinion of the court:
"They fought and fled, and scattered and reunited; they fought
other military commands and citizens who had organized to
oppose them, and in like manner they again and again eluded
their opponents, making their way northward over innumerable hindrances. They had not sought war, but from the moinent when they were fired upon they were upon the war path
-men were killed, women were ravished, houses were burned,
crops destroyed. The country through which they fled and
fought was desolated, and they left behind them the usual well
known trail of fire and blood."
While the facts of this case, which are set forth with much
greater detail in the opinion of the Court of Claims, appeal
strongly to the generosity of Congress to recompense those who

CONNERS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

have suffered by the inconsiderate and hasty action of the
troops in driving these Indians into hostility, they afford no
ground whatever for a judgment against the tribes to which
these Indians originally belonged, but from which they had
separated and carried on independent operations. In fact, it
would be highly unjust to add to their manifest sufferings the
payment of these damages from their annuities, or from other
funds standing to their credit. Nor does the claim make a case
against the United States under the act vesting jurisdiction in
the Court of Claims. We are not at liberty to consider the
circumstances under which these Indians were driven into hostility to the United States. That the band was not in amity
from the moment it was fired upon by the troops is entirely
clear. That the band itself was beyond the control of the tribes
to which it originally belonged is equally clear. As stated by
the court below, "It was not the case of individual Indians
wandering from the main body, murdering and destroying,
while the main body remained in amity with the United States;
but it was the case of an entire body waging armed resistance,
with all its might and with all the ferocity of Indian warfare,
against whatever power the United States could bring to bear
upon themn. The fearful externmination of Dull Knife's band
by the responsible military authorities of the United States on
the assumption that they were escaping prisoners of war, refutes
the idea of prcxisting amity and renders it preposterous."
The fact that they were treated as prisoners of war also refutes
the idea that they were murderers, brigands or other common
criminals.
To constitute a "band" we do not think it necessary that
the Indians composing it be a separate political entity, recognized as such, inhabiting a particular territory, and with whom
treaties had been or might be made. These peculiarities would
rather give them the character of tribes. The word "band"
implies an inferior and less permanent organization, though it
must be of sufficient strength to be capable of initiating hostile
proceedings.
The opinions of the court below in both of these cases are so
thorough and satisfactory that a prolongation of this opinion

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

would be but a mere repetition of those. The law which controlled the disposition of the case just decided is equally applicable here, and the judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing
the petition is therefore
AJfirmed.

LAMPASAS v. BELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 115.

Argued December 3, 1900.-Decided February 11, 1901.

The ruling in Western Union Telegraph Company v. Ann Arbor Railroad
Company, 178 U. S. 239, that when a suit does not really and substantially
involve a dispute or controversy as to the effect or construction of the
Constitution or laws of the United States, upon the determination of
which the result depends, it is not a suit under the Constitution and laws;
and that it must appear on the record, by a statement in legal and logical
form, such as is required in good pleading, that the suit is one which does
really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy as to a right
which depends on the construction of the Constitution, or some law or
treaty of the United States, before jurisdiction can be maintained on this
ground, is cited and followed.
The objection of the unconstitutionality of a statute must be made by one
having the right to make it, not by a stranger to its grievance.
As the city of Lampasas has no legal interest in the constitutional question
which it raised, and upon which it claims the right to come directly to
this court from the Circuit Court under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517,
to permit it to do so would make a precedent which would lead to the
destruction of the statute.
THIS suit was brought to recover the amount of certain unpaid
coupons for interest on "Lampasas City Water Work Bonds."
The main controversy on the merits depends upon whether the
plaintiff in error is the same municipal corporation which issued
the bonds or is its successor in liability. There are minor questions turning upon the provisions of ordinances and the observance of their requirements. Besides, a question under the
Constitution of the United States is claimed to have been raised

