OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

not apply to the present case, because the judge's attention was
directly called by the Government's request to the question of
self-defence, and because the defect in that request was then
and there pointed out by the defendant's counsel in their exception. The question involved in that instruction was a fundamental one in the case; indeed, it may be said that the defendant's sole defence rested upon it. The defendant, as shown in
the bill of exceptions, had testified to his own belief that his
life was in danger, and to the facts that led him so to believe;
but by the instruction given the jury were left to pass upon
the vital question without reference to the defendant's evidence.
Beard v. United States, 158 U. S. 550, 554, 559.
As the trial judge allowed and signed a bill of exceptions to
his instruction in this behalf, it cannot be fairly presumed that
the error was healed by any modification or correction made
in some other and undisclosed part of his charge.
Thejudgment qf the DistrictCourt of the United Statesfor the
District of Alaska is reversed, and the cause is remanded
to that court with directions to set aside the verdict and
award a new trial.

GARDNER v. BONESTELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 143.

Argued January 17, 18, 1901.- Decided February 25, 1901.

It is a well settled rule of law that the power to make and correct surveys
of the public lands belongs exclusively to the political department of the
Government, and that the action of that department, within the scope of
its authority, is unassailable in the courts except by a direct proceeding.
The determination of the Land Department, in a case within its jurisdiction,
of questions of fact depending on conflicting testimony is conclusive, and
cannot be challenged by subsequent proceedings in the courts.
In proceedings in this court to review the action of state courts, this court
does not enter into a consideration of questions of fact.

IN 1834 Juan Reed applied to and received from the Mexican

GARDNER v. BONESTELL.
Statement of the Case.

governor of California a grant of a tract of land. In 1854 his
heirs petitioned the commission created by the United States
for a confirmation of that grant. It was confirmed, the order
therefor being in these words :
"In this case on hearing the proofs and allegations, it is adjudged by the commission that the said claim of the petitioners is valid, and it is therefore hereby decreed that the same be
confirmed.
"The land of which confirmation is hereby made is the same
on which said Juan Reed resided in his lifetime; is known by
the name of Corte de Madera del Presidio, is situated in Marin
County and bounded as follows, to wit: Commencing from the
solar which faces west at a point at the slope and foot of the
hills which lie in that direction and on the edge of the forest
of redwoods called Corte de Madera del Presidio, and running
from thence in a northwardly direction four thousand five hundred varas to an arroyo called ilolon where is another forest of
redwoods called Corte de Madera do San Pablo; thence by the
waters of said arroyo and the Bay of San Francisco ten thousand yarns to the Point Taburon, said point serving as a mark
and limit; thence running along the borders of said bay and
continuing in a westerly direction along the shore of the bay
formed by Point Caballos and Point Taburon, four thousand
seven hundred varas to the north of the canada and the point
of the Isausal' which is near the Estero lying east of the house
on said premises which was occupied by said Juan Reed in November, 1835 ; and thence continuing the measurement from east
to west along the last line eight hundred varas to the place of
beginning; containing one square league of land, be the same
more or less; being the same land described in the testimonial
of juridical possession on file in this case, as having been measured to said Juan Reed under a grant of the same to him, to
which testimonial and the map therein referred to and constituting a part of the expediente, a traced copy of which is filed
in the case, reference is to be had."
An appeal was taken therefrom to the District Court of the
United States, and the following order of confirmation was made
on January 14, 1856:

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

"This cause came on to be beard at a stated term of the court
on appeal from the final decision of the board of commissioners
to ascertain and settle the private land claims in the State of
California under the act of Congress approved on the 3d of
March, A. D. 1851, upon the transcript of the proceedings and
decision of the board of commissioners, and the papers and evidence on which the said- decision was founded, and it appearing
to the court that the said transcript has been duly filed according to law, and counsel for the respective parties having been
heard, it is by the court hereby ordered, adjudged and decreed
that the said decision be, and the same is hereby, in all things
affirmed, and it is likewise further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the claim of the appellees is a good and valid claim,
and that the said claim be, and the same is hereby, confirmed
to the extent and quantity of one square league, being the same
land described in the grant and of which the possession was
proved to have been long enjoyed. Provided, that the said
quantity of one square league now confirmed to the claimants
be contained within the boundaries called for in the said grant
and the map to which the grant refers, and if there be less than
that quantity within the said boundaries, then we confirm to
the claimants that less quantity."
No appeal was taken from this order of confirmation, and it,
therefore, became final. In 1858 a survey was ordered by the
Land Department, and was made by a surveyor, named Mathewson, who surveyed one square league as being the full amount
of the tract confirmed to the petitioners. The petitioners claimed
that their grant was of a tract described by metes and bounds
and not of a given quantity within exterior boundaries, and
after some controversy between them and the Land Department
the latter recognized their claim, set aside the Mathewson survey and ordered a new survey. This was made in 1871. It
was confirmed by the Land Department, and has never been
questioned therein. Thereupon a patent was issued to the petitioners, conveying the tract by metes and bounds as described
in the order of the commission and shown by the last survey.
The tract in controversy is outside the limits of both surveys.
Prior to the last survey Ebenezer Wormoutb, the testator of

GARDNER v. BONESTELL.
Statement of the Case.

defendant in error, settled upon the tract in controversy, and
thereafter made application to enter the tract as public land of
the United States. A contest was had between such testator
and one Samuel R. Throckinorton, claiming title from the heirs
of Reed, the original grantee, first in the local land office, thence
carried by appeal to the General Land Office, and thereafter to
the Secretary of the Interior. The right to enter was sustained
and a patent issued. Thereafter this action against the plaintiffs in error holding under Throckmorton was instituted in the
Superior Court of the county of Matin, California, which, at
first a mere action in ejectment, became by the pleadings subsequently filed a suit in equity to try title. The decree in the
trial court was in favor of Wormouth, which was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of the State, 125 California, 316, and thereafter this writ of error was sued out.
In the trial court the question of title was submitted to the
court and findings of fact made. Among them were the following:
"2d. That one of the questions decided by the United States
register and receiver, and confirmed by the United States Commissioner of the General Land Office, and by the United States
Secretary of the Interior in the said contest of Tkrockcmorton v.
Wormouth, mentioned in the twentieth paragraph of said cross
complaint herein, was a question of fact, namely, the location
of the western boundary of the grant made by Governor Figueroa to Juan Reed.
"3d. That the officers of the United States Land Department, to wit, the register and receiver, the Commissioner of
the General Land Office and the Secretary of the Interior, did
decide and find as a fact upon the evidence produced before
said register and receiver on said contest, that the land in controversy in this action was not included in the said original grant
by the Mexican government to Juan Reed."
" 6th. That the officers of the United States Land Department, to wit, the United States register and receiver, the Coinmissioner of the General Land Office and the United States
Secretary of the Interior, respectively, from the evidence produced before them in said contest of Tlrockmorton v. W-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

mouth, in denying said application of Throckmorton, did not
base their decision upon a question of law alone, but did find
and decide as a fact that said Throckmorton was not a purchaser
in good faith from Mexican grantees or their assigns.
"7th. This court further finds as follows: That the rancho
granted by the governor of California, under the government
of Mexico, to Juan Reed, did not include within its
exterior
limits the land described in the deed from T. B. Deffebach et
al. to Julius C. McCeney of February 14, 1871, or any part
thereof, except so much thereof as is included in the patent issued
on or about the 25th day of February, 1885, by the United States
to John J. Reed et al. That the grant mentioned in the first
paragraph of said cross complaint did not include any part of the
land in controversy in this action. That no grant ever made by
the Mexican government to Juan Reed or to his successors in
interest included any part of the land described and granted to
plaintiff by the United States patent mentioned in the twentysecond paragraph of said cross complaint.
"8th. That the land described in said deed of T. B. Defte
bach et al. to Julius C. McCeney, or any part thereof, except
as in the last finding above set forth, was not within the exterior boundaries of said Mexican grant."
"12th. That none of the grantees named in the deeds mentioned or referred to in the eighteenth paragraph of said cross
complaint purchased the lands or interests described or mentioned in said deeds in good faith, or used or improved or possessed any part of the lands in controversy, except as trespassers
upon the possession and right of the plaintiff, as alleged in his
complaint in this action.
"That neither the said Throckmorton, nor his executrix, ever
had any right to use or improve any part of said lot 3 in section 28, or of said lots 2 and 3 in section 29 ; that neither said
Throckmorton nor his executrix was ever in the actual possession of the same or any part thereof, except as intruders and
trespassers upon the rights and possession of the plaintiff.
"13th. That the evidence introduced in the matter of the
application and contest mentioned in the nineteenth paragraph
of said cross complaint did not show without conflict, or show

GARDNER v. BONESTELL.
Statement of the Case.

at all, that all of the facts set forth in the preceding paragraphs
of said cross complaint were true, or that any of such facts
which are denied in the plaintiff's answer herein are or were
true; that the evidence introduced in the matter of said application and contest did not establish all of said facts, or any
material fact in favor of Throckmorton's right to purchase said
land by competent or any evidence; that there was conflict in
said evidence; that there was evidence on said contest which
contradicted Throckmorton's evidence; that the evidence as
alleged in said cross complaint was not true.
"That the register and receiver of the land office at San Francisco did not, nor did either of them, on the 9th day of February, 1886, or at any other time, base their or his decision upon
the evidence as the same is alleged in said cross complaint, or
upon evidence without conflict; that the said register and receiver did not, nor did either of them, rest their or his decision
upon the proposition, or upon a proposition of law, that the said
Throckmorton was not in law or under the law entitled to purchase the said land.
"That the Commissioner of the General Land Office, on appeal from the decision of the register and receiver, did not base
his decision upon evidence without conflict, and did not rest his
decision upon the or upon a proposition of law, in deciding that
Throckmorton was not entitled to purchase the said land.
"That the said Secretary of the Interior did not rest his decision, affirming the decision of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, upon the or upon a proposition of law.
"That the said Secretary of the Interior decided and found
as a fact from the evidence produced on said contest of Throckmorton v. Worqnoutlh, that said Throckmorton was not a bona
fide purchaser from Mexican grantees or their assigns of the
lands described in paragraph sixteen of said cross complaint.
"14th. That the said Throckmorton did, claiming to be a bona
fide purchaser from Mexican grantees, make said application
(to purchase) to the register and receiver of the United States
land office at San Francisco, under section 7 of the act of Congress entitled, ' An act to quiet land titles in California.'
"That the said Throckmorton was not a bona fide purchaser

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

from Mexican grantees or their assigns and was not entitled to
purchase the said land or any part thereof under said act of
Congress."
The opinion of the Supreme Court rested upon the single
proposition that the Land Department had jurisdiction of the
controversy, and that its judgment was founded upon disputed
questions of fact, and, therefore was not subject to review in
the courts.
Xr.George IV. Monteith for plaintiffs in error.
Mr.C. K. Bonestell for defendant in error.
Black was on his brief.

.br. Alfred L.

MR.JUSTICE BREWER, after stating the above facts, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs in error base their right to the land in controversy upon this provision of the act of July 23, 1866, c. 219,
14 stat. 218, 220:
"That where persons in good faith and for a valuable consideration have purchased lands of Mexican grantees or assigns,
which grants have subsequently been rejected, or where the
lands so purchased have been excluded from the final survey of
any Mexican grant; and have used, inproved and continued in
the actual possession of the same as according to the lines of their
original purchase, and where no valid adverse right or title (except of the United States) exists, such purchasers may purchase
the same."
Every branch of the Land Department, from the register and
receiver of the local land office up to the Secretary of the Interior, decided against the contention of Throckmorton, (under
whom the plaintiffs in error claim,) holding that the land was
not within the exterior boundaries of the grant, and that Throckmorton was not a purchaser in good faith from the grantee, or
his assigns. The trial court, referring to the decision of the
Land Department, found that it was not based upon any matter
of law, but upon questions of fact in respect to which there was

GARDNER v. BONESTELL.
Opinion of the Court.

conflicting testimony. Further, that court upon the testimony
adduced before it found in accord with the conclusions of the
Land Department, and the Supreme Court of the State has sustained such finding.
Certain propositions may be stated which compel an affirmance of the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State. And
first, "it is a well settled rule of law that the power to make and
correct surveys of the public lands belongs exclusively to the
political department of the government, and that the action of
that department, within the scope of its authority, is unassailable in the courts except by a direct proceeding." Knight v.
United States Land Association, 14:2 U. S. 161, 176.
The grant was one not of quantity but by metes and bounds,
and the final survey, approved by the Land Department, determined conclusively the exterior boundaries of that grant. The
land in controversy was not within those boundaries. Counsel
for plaintiff in error assumes that the correctness of this survey
may be litigated in an action between private parties. le insists that the last survey, which he says was a mere compilation
and not an actual resurvey, included a large body of lands on
the one side which were not, in fact, within the boundaries of
the tract of which juridical possession had been given, and excluded on the other side a large body which were within such
boundaries and which included the lands in controversy. If
his contentions were sustained to the full extent the result would
be to enlarge the boundaries of the grant on the one side without reducing them on the other, and so increase the area of the
grant several hundred acres above its admittedly true size. In
other words, the United States, which obtained by the treaty of
cession full title to all lands not subject to private grant, would
be deprived of these extra acres, undoubtedly their property.
He has mistaken his remedy. It was by application to the Land
Department to correct the survey, and failing to secure correction there, a direct proceeding.in the courts in which the Reed
heirs should have been parties, and in which they could have
been heard to defend the survey and patent.
Again, the determination of the Land Department in a case
within its jurisdiction of questions of fact depending upon conYoI, cuxxx-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

flicting testimony is conclusive, and cannot be challenged by
subsequent proceedings in the courts. .Burfenningv. Chicago,
St. Paul &c. Railway, 163 U. S. 321, 323, and cases cited in
the opinion; Johnson v. Drew, 171 U. S. 93-99.
The Land Department found and adjudged not only that the
land in controversy was outside the exterior boundaries of the
grant, but also that Throckmorton was not a purchaser in good
faith. Both of these findings were matters of fact and based
upon the testimony. No proposition of law controlled such
findings, and no error of law is apparent. Both questions of
fact were determined by the Land Department adversely to the
plaintiffs in error, and that determination concludes the courts.
Counsel insists that there was no conflicting testimony. le
ignores the survey which is in itself evidence, and that of a
most persuasive kind. There are many things which a surveyor sees and finds in making a survey which are not and
cannot be reproduced on paper, and which yet guide him, and
wisely guide him, in the lines he runs. So that even in a case
in which a survey is a proper subject of attack, it can be overthrown only upon satisfactory evidence of mistake. It cannot
be ignored and the only matter considered be the tendency and
significance of the oral testimony of witnesses as to lines, metes
and bounds.
The trial court, in addition to its findings in reference to the
proceedings in the Land Department, found, as independent matters of fact, that the land in controversy was outside the exterior
boundaries of the grant, and that Throekmorton was not a bona
fide purchaser. The Supreme Court of the State sustained
those findings. Now, in proceedings in this court to review
the action of state courts we do not enter into a consideration
of questions of fact. We accept the determination of those
courts in such matters as conclusive, and inquire simply whether
there have been errors of law. Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S.
658; Egaln v. Hirt, 165 U. S..188; Hedrick v. Atchison, Topeka &c. Railroad Co., 167 U. S. 673, 677.
For these reasons the judgment of the Supreme Court of
California is
Affirmed.

