OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS AND THE SANITARY DISTRICT OF CHICAGO.
ORIGINAL.
No. 5. Original.

Argued November 12, 13, 1900-Decided January 28, 1901.

This suit was brought by the State of Missouri against the State of Illinois
and the Sanitary District of Chicago. The latter is alleged to be "a
public corporation, organized under the laws of the State of Illinois and
located in part in the city of Chicago, and in the county of Cook, in the
State of Illinois, and a citizen of the State of Illinois." The remedy sought
for is an injunction restraining the defendants from receiving or permitting any sewage to be received or discharged into the artificial channel
or drain constructed by the Sanitary District, under authority derived
from the State of Illinois, in order to carry off and eventually discharge
into the Mississippi the sewage of Chicago, which had been previously discharged into Lake Michigan, and from permitting the same to flow through
said channel or drain into the Des Plaines River, and thence by the river
Illinois into the Mississippi. The bill alleged that the nature of the injury
complained of was such that an adequate remedy could only be found in
this court, at the suit of the State of Missouri. The object of the bill
was to subject this public work to judicial supervision, upon the allegation that the method of its construction and maintenance will create a
continuing nuisance, dangerous to the health of a neighboring State and
its inhabitants, and the bill charged that the acts of the defendants, if
not restrained, would result in the transportation, by artificial means,
and through an unnatural channel, of large quantities of undefecated
sewage daily, and of accumulated deposits in the harbor of Chicago, and
in the bed of the Illinois River, which will poison the water supply of the
inhabitants of Missouri, and injuriously affect that portion of the bed or
soil of the Mississippi River which lies within its territory. The bill did
not assail the drainage canal as an unlawful structure, nor aim to prevent
its use as a waterway, but it sought relief against the pouring of sewage
and filth through it by artificial arrangements into the Mississippi River,
to the detriment of the State of Missouri and its iniabitants. The defendants demurred to the bill for want of jurisdiction and for reasons
set forth in the demurrer. This court held that the demurrer could not
be sustained, and required the defendants to appear and answer.

January, 1900, the State of Missouri filed in this court a
bill of complaint against the State of Illinois and the Sanitary
IN

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

209

Statement of the Case.

District of Chicago, a corporation of the latter State, in the following terms:
"The complainant, the State of Missouri, and one of the
States of the United States, brings this its bill of complaint
against the State of Illinois, one of the States of the United
States, and the Sanitary District of Chicago, a public corporation,
organized under the laws of the State of Illinois, and located
in part in the city of Chicago and in the county of Cook, in
said State of Illinois, and a citizen of the State of Illinois.
"And your orator complains and says that it is a State containing a population of upwards of three millions of people, and
lying on the west bank of the Mississippi River, a public, navigable and running stream, and having a frontage on said stream
of over four hundred miles.
"And your orator shows that by the act of Congress providing for the organization and admission of Illinois and Missouri
as States of the Union it was declared that the western boundary of Illinois and the eastern boundary of Missouri should be
the middle of the main channel of the Mississippi River; that
the shores of the Mississippi River, where its waters form the
Missouri and Illinois boundary, and the soil under the waters
thereof, were not granted by the Constitution of the United
States, but were reserved to the States of Illinois and Missouri
respectively.
"And your orator shows that the States of Missouri and Illinois each have concurrent general jurisdiction over the waters
of the Mississippi River forming the boundary between them,
and each of said States has exclusive territorial jurisdiction over
that portion adjacent to its own shore, and your orator shows
that the Illinois River empties into the Mississippi River at a
point above the city of St. Louis, on the Illinois side of said
Mississippi River.
"And your orator further shows that within the territory of
your orator and on the banks and shores of said Mississippi River
and below the mouth of the Illinois River are many cities and
towns in the State of Missouri, and many thousands of persons
who are compelled to and do rely upon the waters of said river,
in their regular, natural and accustomed flow, for their daily
VOL. CLXXX-14-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

necessary supply of water for drinking and all other domestic
and agricultural and manufacturing purposes, and for watering
stock and animals of all kinds, and that said Mississippi River
has been flowing in its regular course and has been used for the
purposes aforesaid by the inhabitants of the said State of Missouri
for a time whereof the memory of a man runneth not to the
contrary, and that said river and its waters and the use thereof
for drinking, agricultural and manufacturing purposes, in their
accustomed and natural flow, are indispensable to the life and
health and business of many thousands of the inhabitants of the
State of Missouri and of great value to your orator as a State.
"And your orator shows that cities and towns below the
mouth of said Illinois River, within the territory of your orator, do and are compelled, by means of water works, water
towers and intakes, built and constructed for that purpose, to
supply the inhabitants of said cities and towns with an adequate supply of pure and wholesome water, fit and healthful
for drinking and all other domestic purposes and uses, from the
said Mississippi River so flowing in its ancient, accustomed and
natural course.
"And your orator shows that said water works systems are
constructed with reference to said Mississippi River and for
the purpose of taking water therefrom and not from any other
source.
"And your orator shows that heretofore, to wit, in 1889, the
State of Illinois enacted a law known as the Sanitary District
act, together with an act for the improvement of the Illinois
and Des Plaines Rivers, and that under said act of said State
the said corporation known as the said Sanitary District of
Chicago was organized and is now existing and operating, and
that by the express terms of said act any canal or drain corporation organized in accordance with its provisions may have
conditions, restrictions or additional requirements placed on
said corporation, or the act authorizing the creation of said
corporation may be amended or repealed, and that by the express provisions of said act, before any water or sewage shall
be admitted into any channel constructed under said act, the
trustees of said channel shall notify the Governor of Illinois

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

211

Statement of the Case.

of the completion of said channel, and the Governor of Illinois
shall appoint three commissioners to examine said canal or
channel and report to the Governor if the same complies with
the act of the State of Illinois; and if it does, the Governor
shall authorize the water and sewage to be turned into said
channel; and that without the said permit it cannot be so
turned in; and that by the general provisions of said act said
channel is at all times subject to the control and supervision of
the State of Illinois and her authorities.
"And your orator further shows that the Chicago River is
situated in the basin of Lake Michigan and has two forks or
branches flowing through the city of Chicago and into Lake
Michigan, and that the natural drainage of Chicago, Illinois,
is into Lake Michigan, and the sewage and drainage of the territory embraced in the defendant's district, the Sanitary District of Chicago, is led into or flows into the Chicago River
and Lake Michigan.
"And your orator further shows that the defendant herein,
the Sanitary District of Chicago, with the authority of the State
of Illinois, and acting as a governmental agency of said State,
and under the supervision and control and subject to the approval of the State of Illinois, has constructed a channel or
open (Irain from the west fork of the south branch of the Chicago River, in the city of Chicago and county of Cook, in the
State of Illinois, to a point near Lockport, in the county of
Will, in said State, where said channel or drain connects with
and empties into the Des Plaines River, which empties into the
Illinois River, and which latter river flows and em)ties into the
Mississippi River at a point distant about forty-three miles above
the city of St. Louis, Missouri.
"And your orator further states that the channel built by the
Sanitary District of Chicago was so built by said Sanitary District as one of the governmental agencies of the State of Illinois, and by the pretended lawful authority of said State, and
under the direction, supervision and control and governmental
power of the State of Illinois, and which said State has heretofore at all times sanctioned and now, through its Governor and
other officers, sanctions the building of said channel and opening thereof.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

"And your orator further shows that in the construction of
said channel or drain the defendant, the Sanitary District of
Chicago, Illinois, with the sanction and approval of the State of
Illinois, cut through the natural ridge or watershed which divides the basin of Lake Michigan from the basins of the Des
Plaines and Illinois Rivers and the basin of the Mississippi River,
and that having so constructed said channel and having about
completed the same, and having, under the supervision of and
with the sanction of the State of Illinois, extended said artificial
channel through said natural divide of the watershed, the defendants now propose and threaten to receive into said channel
or drain the sewage matter and filth of the Sanitary District of
Chicago, which embraces nearly the whole city of Chicago and
a portion of the county of Cook, and, without any legal authority so to do, has already in part effectuated its said threat and
purpose and threatens to permit and to cause said sewage and
filth, by artificial means of pumping and otherwise, to flow
through the channel or drain towards and into the said Des
Plaines River and eventually in to the Mississippi River, thereby,
with the approval of and subject to the inspection and control
and supervision of the State of Illinois, and by the pretended
authority thereof, reversing the natural flow of said Chicago
River.
"And your orator further shows that the sewage matter and
poisonous filth which it is thus threatened to receive and to permit and to cause to flow through said artificial channel into said
Des Plaines River is that which is created by a population of upwards of one and one half millions of people, besides that which
is created by a great number of stock yards, slaughtering establishments, rendering establishments, distilleries and other business enterprises and industries lining both sides of the Chicago
River, producing filth and noxious matters; all of which are
there discharged into the said Chicago River or drained therein
from the surface.
"And your orator further shows that for many years past the
said city of Chicago, the greater portion of which is embraced
in the limits of the defendant corporation, tie Sanitary District
of Chicago, as aforesaid, has been discharging its sewage mat-

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

213

Statement of the Case.

ter and filth into the Chicago River and into Lake Michigan in
such large quantities that much of it has accumulated in the
bed and along the sides of the river and upon the bed of said
Lake Michigan, near the shores thereof, and that the plan threatened and attempted now to be adopted by the defendant, the
Sanitary District of Chicago, acting in conjunction with and
subject to the control of the defendant, the State of Illinois, and
by the pretended authority of the said State of Illinois, will
loosen said accumulated matter and filth, and will also direct it
and cause it to flow towards and into said artificial channel or
drain, and thence into said Des Plaines River, and finally into
the Mississippi River and into the waters thereof within the jurisdiction and under the control of your orator and past the homes
of the inhabitants of your orator and the towns and cities within
the borders of your orator, and past the water works of said
cities and towns within the State of Missouri.
"And your orator further shows that the amount of said
undefecated filth and sewage and poisonous and unhealthful
and noxious matters proposed to be, and now about to be, permitted to be turned into said artificial channel and through said
Des Plaiues and Illinois Rivers into the Mississippi River from
the said Sanitary District of Chicago by the defendants, acting
jointly, will amiount daily to about fifteen hundred tons, and
that if defendants should be permitted to carry their said threats
into execution, and should cause said above amount of undefecated sewage and other poisonous and noxious matters, which
would otherwise flow into Lake Michigan, to flow into the
Mississippi River, that the waters of the Mississippi River within
the jurisdiction of your orator will of a certainty be poisoned
and polluted and rendered wholly unfit and unhealthful for
drinking and domestic uses, and will render wholly valueless
and entirely worthless the various water works systems of towns
and cities on the borders of the State of Missouri, established
and acquired at great cost and expense, and will deprive your
orator, the State of Missouri, and its inhabitants, of the right
to use of the waters of said river for drinking and all other
domestic and manufacturing and agricultural purposes, as said
water has been so used in its accustomed and natural flow hereto-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

fore for the length of time that the memory of man runneth
not to the contrary thereof.
"And that said threatened action of the defendants will
amount to a direct and continuing nuisance and be an interference with the use by your orator and its inhabitants of the waters
of the Mississippi River flowing in their natural state, polluting
and poisoning the same by the means aforesaid, whereby the
health and lives of the inhabitants of your orator will be endangered and the business interests of said State will be greatly
and irreparably injured, and which said damage to the lives and
health and the business interests of said State resulting from
said poisoning and polluting of said waters as aforesaid to your
orator cannot be estimated in money value.
"And your orator on information and belief states and charges
the fact to be that said fifteen hundred tons of poisonous undefecated filth and sewage of said Sanitary District of Chicago
will be daily carried through said artificial channel and sent
through the Des Plaines and Illinois Rivers into the Mississippi,
and great quantities thereof will be deposited in the bed and
soil of said river belonging to your orator and wholly within
the jurisdiction thereof, to your orator's great and irreparable
damage, and that the fifteen hundred tons of undefecated sewage and filth now about to be daily injected into the waters of
the Mississippi River and into the portion thereof over which
the State of Missouri has jurisdiction, and from which thousands of her inhabitants obtain drinking water, will pollute and
poison the said water of the Mississippi River to such an extent
as to render it unwholesome and unfit and finhealthful for use
for drinking by the said inhabitants in the territory of your
orator and unfit for use for watering stock and for manufacturing purposes.
"And your orator further shows that great quantities of undefecated sewage turned into the Mississippi River in the manner and by the means aforesaid will poison and pollute said
water with the germs of disease of various and many kinds.
And your orator further shows that the acts herein complained
of on the part of the State of Illinois, acting in conjunction with
one of her governmental agencies, the said Sanitary District of

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

215

Statement of the Case.

Chicago, will cause a continuing nuisance in the Mississippi
River, and that the said State of Illinois has no power or authority to cause or permit or assist in causing the commission
and continuance of a nuisance in the flowing waters of the
Mississippi River, a navigable stream, to the detriment and irreparable and continuing damage and injury of the State of
Missouri, and the continuing and irreparable injury to the lives
and health of the citizens and inhabitants of the State of Missouri, and that unless restrained by the order and decree of this
court the defendants, the State of Illinois and the Sanitary District of Chicago, acting together, will, in accordance with the
terms of the act under which said Sanitary District is organized,
upon the permit and authority of the Governor of Illinois and
of the State of Illinois, turn said water and sewage aforesaid,
by the manner and means aforesaid, into the Des Plaines and
Illinois Rivers and thence into the Mississippi, all of which your
orator says and avers is contrary to equity and good conscience,
and would result in the manifest and irreparable injury of your
orator and the health of her citizens in the premises, and your
orator is wholly without remedy at law and without any adequate remedy to prevent the flowing of said sewage, as aforesaid, save by the interposition of this court.
"For as much as your orator can have no adequate relief except in this court, and to the end, therefore, that the defendants
may, if they can, show why your orator should not have the
relief prayed, and to the end that the defendants may make a
full, true, direct and perfect answer to the matters hereinbefore
stated and charged, but not under oath, an answer under oath
being hereby expressly waived, and to the end that the defendants, their officers, agents, servants and employs may be restrained by injunction issuing out of this court from receiving
or permitting any sewage to be received or discharged into said
artificial channel or drain, and from permitting the same to
flow or causing the same to be made to flow through said
channel or drain towards and into the Des Plaines River, your
orator prays that your honors may grant a writ of injunction,
under the seal of this honorable court, properly restraining and
enjoining the defendants, the officers, agents, employ~s and

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

servants of the Sanitary District of Chicago and the State of
Illinois, from permitting or causing any of said sewage to be
discharged into said channel or drain, and from permitting or
causing said sewage and poisonous filth thence to flow into said
Des Plaines River; that defendant, the State of Illinois, be enjoined and restrained from issuing to its codefendant permission and authority to do and perform the acts aforesaid or to
allow them to be done; and your orator also prays for a provisional or temporary injunction pending this cause, restraining
and enjoining the several acts aforesaid, and for such other and
further relief as the equity of the case may require and to your
honors may seem meet.
"May it please your honors to grant unto your orator not
only a writ of injunction conformable to the prayer of this bill,
but also a writ of subpcena of the United States of America,
directed to the State of Illinois, the Governor and Attorney General thereof, and to said Sanitary District of Chicago, its officers,
trustees and agents, commanding them on a day certain to appear and answer unto this bill or complaint, and to abide such
order and decree of the court in the premises as to the court
shall seem proper and required by the principles of equity and
good conscience."
In March, 1900, came the defendants and filed a demurrer to
the bill of complaint, in the following terms:
"Now comes the State of Illinois by its Attorney General,
Edwin C. Akin, and the Sanitary District of Chicago, by its
attorneys, and demur to the bill of complaint filed herein, and
say that the said bill of complaint and the matters therein contained, in manner and form as the same arc above stated and set
forth, are not sufficient in law for the said State of Missouri to
have and maintain its aforesaid action against the said State of
Illinois and the Sanitary District of Chicago, and that said defendants are not bound by the law of the land to answer the same;
and the said defendants, according to the form of the statute
in such case made and provided, state and show to the court
here the following causes of demurrer to the said bill of complaint:
"First. That this court has no jurisdiction of either the

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

217

Statement of the Case.
parties to, or of the subject-matter of, this suit, because it appears upon the face of said bill of complaint that the matters
complained of, as set forth therein, do not constitute, within
the meaning of the Constitution of the United States, any controversy between the State of Missouri and the State of Illinois,
or any of its citizens.
"Second. That the matters alleged and set forth in said bill
of complaint show that the only issues presented therein arise,
if at all, between the State of Illinois and a public corporation
created under the laws of said State, and certain cities and
towns, in their corporate capacity as such, in the State of Missouri, and certain persons in said State of Missouri, residing on
or near the banks of the Mississippi River, and which matters
so stated in said bill of complaint, if true, do not concern the
State of Missouri as a corporate body or State.
"Th ird. That said bill of complaint shows upon its face that
this suit is in fact for and on behalf of certain cities and towns
in said State of Missouri, situate on the banks of the Mississippi
River, and certain persons who reside in said State on or near
the banks of said river; and that, although the said suit is attempted to be prosecuted for and in the name of the State of
Missouri, said State is, in effect loaning its name to said cities
and towns and to said individuals, and is only a nominal party
to said suit, and that the real parties in interest are the said
cities and towns in their corporate capacity as such, and said
private persons or citizens of said State.
"_Fourth. That it appears upon the face of said bill of complaint that the said State of Missouri, in her right of sovereignty,
is seeking to maintain this suit for the redress of the supposed
wrongs of certain cities and towns in said State, in their corporate capacity as such, and of certain private citizens of said
State, while under the Constitution of the United States and
the laws enacted thereunder, the said State possesses no such
sovereignty as empowers it to bring an original suit in this
court for such purpose.
"Fifth. That it appears upon the face of said bill of complaint that no property rights of the State of Missouri are in
any manner affected by the matters alleged in said bill of con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

plaint; nor is there any such property right involved in this
suit as would give this court original jurisdiction of this cause.
"Sieth. That in order to authorize this court to maintain
original jurisdiction of this suit as against the State of Illinois,
or against any citizens of said State, it must appear that the
controversy set forth in the bill of complaint and to be determined by this court, is a controversy arising directly between
the State of Missouri and the State of Illinois, or some of its
citizens, and not a controversy in vindication of the alleged
grievances of certain cities and towns in said State or of particular individuals residing therein.
"Seventh. That said bill of complaint is in other respects uncertain, informal and insufficient, and that it does not state facts
sufficient to entitle the said State of Missouri to the equitable
relief prayed for in said bill of complaint.
"Wherefore, for want of a sufficient bill of complaint in this
behalf, the said defendants pra'y judgment; and that the said
State of Missouri may be barred from having or maintaining
the aforesaid action against said defendants, and that this court
will not take further cognizance of this cause, and that the said
defendants be hence dismissed with their costs."
On November 12, 1900, the case came on to be heard on bill
and demurrer, and was argued by counsel.
2r. William Y.Springer and XJL. Charles 0. Gilbert for the
demurrer. Air. Edward C. Akin and ir. Samuel X. Burdett
were on their brief.
Xr. B. Schnumacher in opposition to the demurrer.
Edward C. Crow was on his brief.

ir.

MR.JUSTICE SHIRAS, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

This cause is now before us on the bill of complaint and the
demurrer thereto.
The questions thus presented are two: First, whether the allegations of the bill disclose the case of a controversy between

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

219

Opinion of the Court.

the State of Missouri and the State of Illinois and a citizen
thereof, within the meaning of the Constitution and statutes of
the United States, which create and define the original jurisdiction of this court; and, second, whether, if it be held that the
allegations of the bill do present such a controversy, they are
sufficient to entitle the State of Missouri to the equitable relief
prayed for.
The question whether the acts of one State in seeking to promote the health and prosperity of its inhabitants by a system
of public works, which endangers the health and prosperity of
the inhabitants of another and adjacent State, would create a
sufficient basis for a controversy, in the sense of the Constitution, would be readily answered in the affirmative if regard
were to be had only to the language of that instrument.
"The judicial power of the United States shall be vested in
one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress
may from time to time ordain and establish. . . . The judicial power shall extend to all cases, in law and equity, arising
under this Constitution, the laws of the United States, and
treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority,
. . . to controversies between two or more States, between
a State and citizens of another State. ...
In all cases,
in which a State shall be a party, the Supreme Court
shall have original jurisdiction." Constitution, Article 3.
As there is no definition or description contained in the Constitution of the kind and nature of the controversies that should
or might arise under these provisions, it might be supposed that,
in all cases wherein one State should institute legal proceedings
against another, the original jurisdiction of this court would
attach.
But in this, as in other instances, when called upon to construe and apply a provision of the Constitution of the United
States, we must look not merely to its language but to its historical origin, and to those decisions of this court in which its
meaning and the scope of its operation have received deliberate
consideration.
After the declaration of independence the united colonies,
through delegates appointed by each of the colonies, considered

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Articles of Confederation, which were debated from day to day,
and from time to time, for two years, and were on July 9, 1778,
ratified by ten States; by New Jersey, on November 26 of the
same year; by Delaware, on the 23d of February, 1779, and by
Maryland on March 1, 1781.
The first Article was as follows: "The style of this Conf deracy shall be, ' The United States of America.'"
The ninth Article contained, among other provisions, the following:
"The United States in Congress assembled shall also be the
last resort on appeal in all disputes and differences now subsisting, or that hereafter may arise, between two or more States,
concerning boundary, jurisdiction or any other cause whatever; which authority shall always be e kercised in the manner
following: Whenever the legislature or executive authority, or
lawful agent, of any State, in controversy with another, shall
present a petition to Congress, stating the matter in question,
and praying for a hearing, notice thereof shall be given by order
of Congress to the legislative or executive authority of the other
State in controversy, and a day assigned for the appearance of
the parties, by their lawful agents, who shall then be directed
to appoint, by joint consent, commissioners or judges to constitute a court for hearing and determining the matter in question; but if they cannot agree, Congr'ess shall name three persons out of each of the United States, and from the list of such
persons each party shall alternately strike out one, the petitioners beginning, until the number shall be reduced to thirteen;
and from that number not less than seven nor more than nine
names, as Congress shall direct, shall, in the presence of Congress, be drawn out by lot; and the persons whose names shall
be so drawn, or any five of them, shall be commissioners or
judges, to hear and finally determine the controversy, so always
as a major part of the judges, who shall hear the cause, shall
agree in the determination; and if either party shall neglect to
attend at the day appointed, without showing reasons which
Congress shall judge sufficient, or being present shall refuse to
strike, the Congress shall proceed to nominate three persons out
of each State, and the secretary of Congress shall strike in be-

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

221

Opinion of the Court.

half of such party absent or refusing; and the judgment and
sentence of the court, to be appointed in the manner before prescribed, shall be final and conclusive; and if any of the parties
shall refuse to submit to the authority of such court, or to appear or defend their claim or cause, the court shall nevertheless
proceed to pronounce sentence or judgment, which shall in like
manner be final and decisive-the judgment or sentence, and
other proceedings, being in either case transmitted to Congress,
and lodged among the acts of Congress for the security of the
parties concerned: provided, that every commissioner, before
he sits in judgment, shall take an oath, to be administered by
one of the judges of the supreme or superior court of the state
where the cause shall be tried, well and truly to hear and determine the matter in question, according to the best of his
judgment, without favor, affection or hope of reward : provided,
also, that no State shall be deprived of territory for the benefit
of the United States."
It will therefore be perceived that under the confederation
the necessity of a tribunal to hear and determine matters in
question between two or more States was recognized; that a
court was provided for that purpose; and that the scope or
field within which it was expected such matters in question or
controversies should or might arise for the determination of
such court, extended to " all dispues and diferenees now subsisting or that may hereafter arise between. two or more States concerning boundary,jurisdiction or any other cause whatever."
When the Federal convention met in 1787 to form the present Constitution of the United States several drafts of such an
instrument were presented for the consideration of the convention. One of these was offered on May 29 by Edmund Randolph, of Virginia, in the shape of resolutions covering the
entire subject of a national government. The ninth resolution
prescribed the formation of a national judiciary, to consist of a
supreme and inferior tribunals, with jurisdiction to hear and
determine, among other things, "questions which involve the
internal peace or harmony." Elliot's Deb. vol. 1, p. 143. On
the same day Charles Pinckney, of South Carolina, submitted
a draft of a Federal Government, the seventh article whereof
was as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

"The Senate shall have the sole and exclusive power to declare war and to make treaties, and to appoint ambassadors and
other ministers to foreign nations, and judges of the Supreme
Court."
"They shall have the exclusive power to regulate the manner of deciding all disputes and controversies now subsisting,
or which may arise, between the States respecting jurisdiction
or territory." Elliot's Deb. vol. 1, p. 145.
On June 19 the committee of the whole, to which had been
referred the several propositions and drafts, reported to the
convention for its consideration a draft as altered, amended
and agreed to in the committee. The thirteenth resolution
was as follows:
"That the jurisdiction of the national judiciary shall extend
to cases which respect the collection of the national revenue,
impeachment of any national officers, and questions which involve the national peace and harmony." Elliot's Deb. vol. 1,
p. 182.
On August 6, a committee of five members, to which the various propositions, as originally made and as amended in the
committee of the whole, reported to the convention a draft of
the Constitution, the ninth article of which was as follows:
"SEC. 1. The Senate of the United States shall have power
to make treaties and appoint ambassadors and judges of the Supreme Court.
"SEC. 2. In all disputes and controversies now subsisting, or
that may hereafter subsist, between two or more States, respecting jurisdiction or territory, the Senate shall possess the following powers, etc. [And here follows a scheme for a special court,
in terms similar to that provided in the articles of confederation.]
"SEC. 3. All controversies concerning lands claimed under
different grants of two or more States, whose jurisdiction, as
they respect such lands, shall have been decided or adjusted
subsequent to such grants, or any of them, shall, on application
to the Senate, be finally determined, as near as may be, in the
same manner as is before prescribed for deciding controversies
between different States."
The eleventh article contained, among other sections, the following:

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

223

Opinion of the Court.

"SEc. 1. The judicial power of the United States shall be
vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as shall,
when necessary, from time to time, be constituted by the legislature of the United States.
"SEC. 3. The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court shall extend
to all cases arising under laws passed by the legislature of the
United States; to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public
ministers and consuls; to the trial of impeachment of officers
of the United States; to all cases of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction; to controversies between two or more States, except such as shall regard territory or jurisdiction; between a
State and citizens of another State; between citizens of different
States ; and between a State or the citizens thereof and foreign
states, citizens or subjects." Elliot's Deb. vol. 1, p. 224.
It may be observed, in passing, that, in this draft, all disputes
and controversies between two or more States, respecting jurisdiction or territory, are to be determined by a special court to
be constituted by the Senate; and controversies between two
or more States, except such as shall regard territory or jurisdiction, are determinable by the Supreme Court. It is, therefore,
apparent that other disputes or controversies between States
were regarded and provided for besides those respecting territory or jurisdiction.
This draft, together with numerous suggestions and amendments, was on August 7 submitted to the committee of the
whole.
On September 12 a committee on revision reported a draft
of the Constitution as revised and arranged. This draft, which,
as respects our present subject, was in the terms of the Constitution as finally adopted, took from the Senate the power to
constitute a court to try disputes between the States respecting
territory or jurisdiction, and struck out the provision excluding
from the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court disputes between
the States in matters respecting jurisdiction and territory. The
entire jurisdiction of controversies between States was bestowed
upon the Supreme Court, in the second section of article three,
in the following terms:
"The judicial power shall extend to all cases in law and

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

equity, arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United
States and the treaties made, or which shall be made, under
their authority; to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls; to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; to controversies to which the United States
shall be a party; to controversies between two or more States;
between a State and citizens of another State; between citizens
of different States; between citizens of the same State, claiming lands under grants of different States, and between a State
or the citizens thereof, and foreign states, citizens or subjects.
"In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers
and consuls, and those in which a State shall be a party, the
Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction. In all other
cases before mentioned the Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such exceptions,
and under such regulations, as the Congress shall make."
As in this section power is conferred on Congress to make
regulations affecting the exercise by the Supreme Court of its
jurisdiction, it may not be out of place to quote the provisions
in this respect of the judiciary act of 1789 :
" The Supreme Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of all
controversies of a civil nature where a State is a party, except
between a State and its citizens, or between a State and citizens of other States or aliens, in which latter cases it shall
have original, but not exclusive, jurisdiction." Revised Stat.
sec. 687.
The case of Nfew York v. Connecticut, 4 Dall. 1, in 1799, was
the first instance of an exercise by the Supreme Court of its
jurisdiction in a controversy between two States. It was a
case of a bill in equity filed by the State of New York against
the State of Connecticut and certain private persons who were
grantees of the latter State of lands, the jurisdiction over which
was claimed by both States. The object of the bill was to obtain an injunction to stay proceedings in ejectment pending in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Connecticut.
The court was of opinion that, as the State of New York
was not a party to the suits below, nor interested in the deci-

MISSOURI 'r. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

225

Opinion of the Court.

sions of those suits, an injunction ought not to issue. No argument was made that the court had not jurisdiction, and the court
proceeded on the assumption that it possessed jurisdiction, although, under the facts of the case, it refused the injunction
prayed for.
Vew Jersey v. New York, 5 Pet. 284, was the case of a bill
filed by the State of New Jersey against the State of New
York for the purpose of ascertaining and settling the boundary
between the two States. In an opinion awarding the process
of subpoena Chief Justice Marshall said:
"The Constitution of the United States declares that 'the
judicial power shall extend to controversies between two or
more States.' It also declares that 'in all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, and those in which
a State shall be a party, the Supreme Court shall have original
jurisdiction.' . . . It has been settled by our predecessors,
on great deliberation, that this court may exercise its original
jurisdiction in suits against a State, under the authority conferred by the Constitution and existing acts of Congress."
In March, 1832, the State of Rhode Island filed in this court
a bill against the State of Massachusetts, for the settlement of
the boundary between the two States, and moved for a subpcena
to be issued, according to the practice of the court in similar
cases. An appearance was entered for Massachusetts, and a
motion was made to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction.
In support of the motion it was contended that this court had
no jurisdiction because of the character of the respondent independent of the nature of the suit, and because of the nature
of the suit independent of the character of the respondent. It
was not denied that Massachusetts had agreed, by adopting the
Federal Constitution, to submit her controversies with other
States to judicial decision, but it was claimed that Congress
had passed no law establishing a mode of proceeding, the character of the judgment to be rendered, and means of enforcing
it. As respects the nature of the suit, it was argued that it was
in its character political, brought by a sovereign, in that avowed
character; that the judicial power of the United States extended, by the Constitution, only to cases of law and equity,
VOL. CLXXX-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

and that questions of jurisdiction over territory were not cases
of that kind, nor of "a civil nature."
The court held that jurisdiction was conferred by the Constitution and the Judiciary Act, and that, as Massachusetts had
appeared, submitted to the process, and pleaded in bar of the
plaintiff's action certain matters on which the judgment of the
court was asked, all doubts as to jurisdiction over the parties
were at rest.
As respected the power of the court to hear and determine
the subject-matters of the suit, it was held that jurisdiction existed; that the dispute was a controversy between two States
within the judicial power of the United States. 12 Pet. 657;
13 Pet. 23.
Before leaving this case it is to be remarked that the principal contest was as to whether a question of boundary, involving as it did the question of sovereignty over territory, was a
judicial question of a civil nature. The implication was that
the controversies between two or more States, in which jurisdiction had been granted by the Constitution, did not include
questions of a political character. In some of the later cases
the contention has been the very opposite; that the intention
of the Constitution was only to apply to questions in which the
sovereign and political powers of the respective States were in
controversy.
In florida v. Georgia, 11 Iow. 293, leave was given by this
court to the State of Florida to file a bill against the State of
Georgia, and process of subpoena was directed to be issued
against the State of Georgia. The object of the bill was to
ascertain and establish the boundary between the two States,
which was in controversy. The State of Georgia answered,
and the cause was proceeded in in pursuance of the prayers of
the bill. Subsequently an application was made by the Attorney General of the United States, alleging that the latter were
interested and concerned in the matter in controversy, and
moving the court that he be permitted to appear in the case,
and be heard in behalf of the United States, in such time and
form as the court should order. This motion was opposed
by the States, and the matter was argued at length. The

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

227

Opinion of the Court.

judges differed, but neither in the opinion of the majority,
granting the motion of the Attorney General, nor in that of the
dissenting minority, was any doubt expressed of the existence
of the jurisdiction of the court over the controversy between
the two States.

Pennsylvania v. Wheeling & Belmont Bridge Company, 9
How. 647; Same v. Same, 11 How. 528; Same v. Same, 13
How. 518; Same v. Same, 18 How. 421, 429, was a case in
equity, in which the State of Pennsylvania filed a bill against
the Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Company, a corporation of
Virginia, and certain contractors, charging that the defendants,
under color of an act of the legislature of Virginia, were engaged in the construction of a bridge across the Ohio River at
Wheeling, which would, as was alleged, obstruct its navigation
to and from the ports of Pennsylvania, by steamboats and other
crafts which navigated the same. Many different questions
were discussed by counsel and considered by the court, respecting the nature and extent of the jurisdiction of this court, the
right of the complainant State, whether at law or in equity,
and the character of the decree which could be rendered. Several observations made in the opinion of the court will be hereafter adverted to when we come to consider the second ground
of demurrer urged in the case before us. It is sufficient for
our present purpose to say that the original jurisdiction of the
court was sustained, a commissioner was appointed to take and
report proofs, and a decree was entered declaring the bridge to
be an obstruction of the free navigation of the river; that
thereby a special damage was occasioned to the plaintiff, for
which there was not an adequate remedy at law, and directing
that the obstruction be removed, either by elevating the bridge
to a height designated, or by abatement.
South Carolinav. Georgia, 93 U. S. 4, was a suit in equity
brought in this court, whereby the State of South Carolina
sought an injunction to restrain the State of Georgia, the United
States Secretary of War, the Chief Engineer of the United
States army, their agents and subordinates, from obstructing
the navigation of the Savannah River, in violation of an alleged
compact subsisting between the States of South Carolina and

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Georgia, and which had been entered into on April 24, 1787.
This court, not denying but assuming jurisdiction in the case,
held that, by adopting the Federal Constitution, and thereby
delegating to the General Government the right to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the several States,
the compact between the two States, in respect to the Savannah River, ceased to operate, and that the acts complained of,
being done in pursuance of congressional authority, and designed
to improve navigation, could not be deemed an illegal obstruction, and accordingly the special injunction previously granted
was dissolved and the bill dismissed.
Wisconsin v. Dulth, 96 U. S. 379, was the case of a bill in
chancery filed in this court by the State of Wisconsin, by virtue
of the constitutional provision which confers original jurisdiction of suits between the States and between a State and citizens
of other States. The city of Duluth, a corporation and citizen
of the State of Minnesota, was defendant; and, after answer,
replication and the taking of a large amount of evidence, the
case came on for a final decree. The nature of the case and the
reasoning upon whieh this court proceeded in disposing of it will
sufficiently appear in the following quotations from the opinion
delivered by Mr. Justice Miller:
"The present suit was brought by the State of Wisconsin on
the ground that the channel of the St. Louis River, as it flowed
in a state of nature, was the common boundary between that
State and the State of Minnesota, and that she had an interest
in the continuance of the channel as an important highway for
navigation and commerce in its natural and usual course; that
the canal cut by Duluth across Minnesota Point, deeper than the
natural outlet of the St. Louis River at its mouth, has diverted,
and will continue to divert, the current of that river through
Superior Bay into the lake by way of that canal. That the result of this is, that while the current cuts that canal deeper and
gives an outlet for the water there at a lower level, it at the
same time, by diverting this current from the old outlet, causes
it to fill up, and thus destroy the usefulness of the river and bay
as an aid of commerce, on which the State had a right to rely.
The bill, after reciting the facts which we have already detailed,

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO I)ISTRJCT.

229

Opinion of the Court.

insists that the city of Duluth cannot, by any right of her own,
nor by any authority conferred on her by the State of Minnesota, thus divert the waters of the stream-the St. Louis River
-from their natural course, to the prejudice of the rights of
the State of Wisconsin or of her citizens. It declares that this
canal at Duluth does this in violation of law; and it prays
this court to enjoin Duluth from protecting or maintaining it,
and by way of mandatory injunction to compel that city to fill
up the canal and restore things in that regard to the condition
of nature in which they were before the canal was made.
"The answer, while admitting the construction of the canal,
denies almost every other material allegation of the bill. It
denies especially that the canal has the effect of changing the
course of the current of the river, or does any injury to the
southern entrance to Superior Bay or diminishes the flow of
water at that point. A large amount of testimony, professional
and non-professional, is presented on that subject.
"The answer also sets up, as an affirmative defence to the
relief sought by the bill, that the United States, by the legislative and executive departments of the Government, have approved of the construction of the canal, have taken possession
and control of the work, have appropriated and spent money
on it, and adopted it as the best mode of making a safe and accessible harbor at the western end of the great system of lake
navigation.
"Many very interesting questions have been argued, and ably
argued, by counsel, which we have not found it necessary to
decide. The counsel for defence deny that the State of Wisconsin has any such legal interest in the flow of the waters in their
natural course as authorizes her to maintain a suit for their diversion. It is argued that this court can take cognizance of no
question which concerns alone the rights of a State in her political or sovereign character. That to sustain the suit she must
have some proprietary interest which is affected by the defendant. This question has been raised and discussed in almost
every case brought before us by a State, in virtue of the original jurisdiction of the court. We do not find it necessary to
make any decision on the point as applicable to the case before

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

us. Nor shall we address ourselves to the consideration of the
mass of conflicting evidence as to the effect of the canal on the
flow of the waters of Superior Bay.
"We will first consider the affirmative defence already mentioned; for, if that be found to be true in point of fact, it will
preclude any such action by this court as the plaintiff has prayed
for."
The court then proceeded to inquire into the action of the
General Government in the matter of the canal in question,
and found that, as matter of fact, the United States had taken
possession and control of the canal as a public work. The opinion concluded as follows:
"If, then, Congress, in the exercise of a lawful authority, has
adopted and is carrying out a system of harbor improvements
at Duluth, this court can have no lawful authority to forbid the
work. If that body sees fit to provide a way by which the
great commerce of the lakes and the countries west of them,
even to Asia, shall be securely accommodated at the harbor of
Duluth by this short canal of three or four hundred feet, can
this court decree that it must forever pursue the old channel,
by the natural outlet, over water too shallow for large vessels,
unsafe for small ones, and by a longer and much more tedious
route?
"When Congress appropriates $10,000 to improve, protect
and secure this canal, this court can have no power to require
it to be filled up and obstructed. While the engineering officers
of the Government are, under the authority of Congress, doing
all they can to make this canal useful to commerce and to keep
it in good condition, this court can owe no duty to a State
which requires it to order the city of Duluth to destroy it.
"These views show conclusively that the State of Wisconsin
is not entitled to the relief asked by the bill, and that it must,
therefore, be dismissed with costs."
The court, therefore, did not decline jurisdiction, but exercised it, by inquiring into the facts put in issue by the bill and
answer, and by dismissing the bill for want of equity.
In Virginia v. Wfest Virginia, 11 Wall. 39, a bill was filed
in this court to settle the boundaries between the two States.

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

231

Opinion of the Court.

There was a demurrer to the bill. In delivering the opinion of
the court Mr. Justice Miller said:
"The first proposition on which counsel insist, in support of
the demurrer is, that this court has no jurisdiction of the case,
because it involves the consideration of questions purely political; that is to say, that the main question to be decided is the
conflicting claims of the two States to the exercise of political
jurisdiction and sovereignty over the territory and inhabitants
of the two countries which are the subject of dispute. This
proposition cannot be sustained without reversing the settled
course of decision in this court and overturning the principles
on which several well-considered cases have been decided."
And, after citing Rhode [land v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 651;
issouri v. Iowa, 7 How. 660; Florida v. Georgia, 17 How.
478, and Alabama v. Georgia, 23 How. 505, the conclusion of
the court was thus expressed:
"We consider, therefore, the established doctrine of this court
to be that it has jurisdiction of questions of boundary between
two States of this Union, and that this jurisdiction is not defeated because in deciding that question it becomes necessary to
examine into and construe compacts and agreements between
those States, or because the decree which the court may render
affects the territorial limits of the political jurisdiction and
sovereignty of the States which are parties to the proceeding."
In New Hampshirev. Louisianaand Others, and _New York
v. Louisianaand Others, 108 U. S. 76, it was found that, in view
of the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, declaring, that "the judicial power of the United States
shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity,
commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States by
citizens of another State, or by citizens and subjects of any
foreign State," as matter of fact, under the pleadings and testimony, the suits were commenced and were prosecuted solely
by the owners of the bonds and coupons, to collect which was
the object of the suits, and it was accordingly held "that the
evident purpose of the amendment, so promptly proposed and
finally adopted, was to prohibit all suits against a State by or
for citizens of other States or aliens, without the consent of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

State to be sued, and, in our opinion, one State cannot create a
controversy with another State, within the meaning of that
term as used in the judicial clauses of the Constitution, by assuming the prosecution of debts, owing by the other State to
its citizens. Such being the case we are satisfied that we are
prohibited, both by the letter and the spirit of the Constitution,
from entertaining these suits, and the bill in each case is dismissed."
In Wisconein v. Pelican Insurance Company, 127 U. S. 265,
286, the nature of the case and of the question involved was
thus stated by Mr. Justice Gray, in delivering the opinion of
the court:
"This action is brought upon a judgment recovered by the
State of Wisconsin in one of her own courts against the Pelican
Insurance Company, a Louisiana corporation, for penalties imposed by a statute of Wisconsin for not making returns to the
insurance commissioner of the State, as required by that statute. The leading question argued at the bar is whether such
an action is within the original jurisdiction of this court.
"The ground on which the jurisdiction is invoked is not the
nature of the cause, but the character of the parties, the plaintiff being one of the States of the Union, and the defendant a
corporation of another of the States."
After citing and considering the cases, the justice expressed
the following conclusions:
" The rule that the courts of no country execute the penal
laws of another applies not only to prosecutions and sentences
for crimes and misdemeanors, but to all suits in favor of the
State for the recovery of pecuniary penalties for any violation
of statutes for the protection of its revenue, or other municipal
From
laws, and to all judgments for such penalties. ...
the first organization of the courts of the United States, nearly
a century ago, it has always been assumed that the original
jurisdiction of this court over controversies between a State
and citizens of another State, or of a foreign country, does not
extend to a suit by a State to recover penalties for a breach of
her own municipal law. . . . The statute of Wisconsin,
under which the State recovered in one of her own courts the

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

233

Opinion of the Court.

judgment now and here sued on, was in the strictest sense a
penal statute, imposing a penalty upon any insurance company
of another State, doing business in the State of Wisconsin without having deposited with the proper officer of the State a full
statement of its property and business during the previous year.
The cause of action was not any private injury, but solely the offence committed against the State by violating her law.
This court, therefore, cannot entertain an original action to
compel the defendants to pay to the State of Wisconsin a sum
of money in satisfaction of the judgment for that fine."
And consequently judgment was entered for the defendant
on the demurrer that had been interposed to the declaration.
11ans v. Louisiana,134 U. S. 1, was an action brought in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, against the State of Louisiana, by Hans, a citizen of
that State, to recover the amount of certain coupons annexed
to bonds of the State. The Circuit Court, on motion of the
attorney general of the State, dismissed the case for want of
jurisdiction. This court affirmed the judgment of the Circuit
Court, and held that the judicial power of the United States
did not extend to the case of a suit brought against a State by
one of its own citizens.
In the course of the opinion, delivered by Mr. Justice Bradley, the following observations were made:
"The truth is, that the cognizance of suits and actions unknown to the law, and forbidden by the law, was not contemplated by the Constitution when establishing the judicial power
of the United States. Some things, undoubtedly, were made
justiciable which were not known as such at the common law;
such, for example, as controversies between States as to boundary lines, and other questions admitting of judicial solution.
And yet the ease of Penn v. Lord Baltimore, 1 Vesey, Sen. 444,
shows that some of these unusual subjects of litigation were
not unknown to the courts even in colonial times; and several
cases of the same general character arose under the Articles of
Confederation, and were brought before the tribunal provided
for -that purpose by those articles. f131 U. S. App. 1. The
establishment of this new branch of jurisdiction seemed to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

necessary from the extinguishment of diplomatic relations between the States. Of other controversies between a State and
another State or its citizens, which, on the settled principles of
public law, are not subjects of judicial cognizance, this court
has often declined to take jurisdiction. See Wisconsinz v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S. 265, 288, 289, and cases there cited."
The last case which we have had occasion to examine is that
of Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S. 1, 16. The case was brought
before us by a bill in equity, filed by the State of Louisiana
against the State of Texas, her Governor and her health officer.
The bill alleged that the State of Texas had granted to its Governor and its health officer extensive powers over the establishment and maintenance of quarantines over infectious and
contagious diseases; that this power had been exercised in a
way and with a purpose to build up and benefit the commerce
of cities in Texas, which were business rivals of the city of
New Orleans, and prayed for a decree that neither the State of
Texas, nor her Governor, nor her health officer, have the right,
under the cover of an exercise of police or quarantine powers,
to declare and enforce an embargo against interstate commerce
between the State of Louisiana, or any part thereof, and the
State of Texas, or the right to make discriminative rules affecting the State of Louisiana, or any part thereof, and different
from and more burdensome than the quarantine rules and regulations applied to other States and countries; and the bill asked
for an injunction restraining the Texas officials from enforcing
the Texas laws in the manner in which they were enforced.
To this bill a demurrer was filed, assigning the following
causes:
"First. That this court has no jurisdiction of either the parties to or of the subject-matter of this suit, because it appears
from the face of the bill that the matters complained of do not
constitute, within the meaning of the Constitution of the United
States, any controversy between the States of Louisiana and
Texas. Second. Because the allegations of the bill show that
the only issues presented by said bill arise between the State of
Texas or her officers, and certain persons in the city of -New
Orleans, in the State of Louisiana, who were engaged in inter-

MISSOURI v.ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

235

Opinion of the Court.

state commerce, and which do not in any manner concern the
State of Louisiana as a corporate body or State. Third. Because such bill shows upon its face that this suit is in reality
for and on behalf of certain individuals engaged in interstate
commerce, and while the suit is attempted to be prosecuted for
and in the name of the State of Louisiana, said State is in effect
loaning its name to said individuals and is only a nominal party
-the real parties at interest being said individuals in the city
of New Orleans who are engaged in interstate commerce.
Fourth. Because it appears from the face of said bill that the
State of Louisiana, in her right of sovereignty, is seeking to
maintain this suit for the redress of the supposed wrongs of her
citizens in regard to interstate commerce, while under the constitution and laws the said State possesses no such sovereignty
as empowers her to bring an original suit in this court for such
purpose. Fifth. Because it appears from the face of the bill
that no property rights of the State of Louisiana are in any
manner affected by the quarantine complained of, nor is any
such property right involved in this suit as would give this
court original jurisdiction of this cause."
In the opinion of the court, delivered by Mr. Chief Justice
Fuller, after a consideration of the cases hereinbefore mentioned
and of others, it was said:
"In order then to maintain jurisdiction of this bill of complaint, as against the State of Texas, it must appear that the
controversy to be determined is a controversy arising directly
between the State of Louisiana and the State of Texas, and not
a controversy in the vindication of grievances of particular individuals.
"By the Constitution the States are forbidden to enter into
any treaty, alliance or confederation ; grant letters of marque
and reprisal, or, without the consent of Congress, 'keep troops
or ships of war in time of peace, enter into any agreement or
compact with another State, or with a foreign power, or engage
in war, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as
will not admit of delay.'
"Controversies between them arising out of public relations
and intercourse cannot be settled either by war or diplomacy,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

though, with the consent of Congress, they may be composed
by agreement.
"In the absence of agreement it may be that a controversy
might arise between two States for the determination of which
the original jurisdiction of this court would be invoked, but
there must be a direct issue between them, and the subject-matter must be susceptible of judicial solution. And it is difficult
to conceive of a direct issue between two States in respect of a
matter where no effort at accommodation has been made; nor
can it be conceded that it is within the judicial function to inquire into the motives of a state legislature in passing a law, or
of the chief magistrate of a State in enforcing it in the exercise
of his discretion and judgment. Public policy forbids the imputation to authorized official action of any other than legitimate motives.
"But in Debs, Palioner,158 U. S. 564, involving a case in
the Circuit Court, in which the United States had sought relief
by injunction, it was observed: ' That while it is not the province of the Government to interfere in any mere matter of private controversy between individuals, or to use its great powers
to enforce the rights of one against another, yet, whenever the
wrongs complained of are such as affect the public at large, and
are in respect of matters which by the Constitution are entrusted
to the care of the nation, and concerning which the nation owes
its duty to all the citizens of securing to them their common
rights, then the mere fact that the Government has no pecuniary
interest in the controversy is not sufficient to exclude it from
the courts or prevent it from taking measures therein to fully
discharge those constitutional duties.'
"It is in this aspect that the bill before us is framed. Its
gravamen is not a special and peculiar injury such as would
sustain an action by a private person, but the State of Louisiana presents herself in the attitude of parens patiiw, trustee,
guardian or respresentative of all her citizens. She does this
from the point of view that the State of Texas is intentionally
absolutely interdicting interstate commerce as respects the State
of Louisiana by means of unncessary and unreasonable quarantine
regulations. Inasmuch as the vindication of the freedom of in-

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

237

Opinion of the Court.

terstate commerce is not committed to the State of Louisiana, and
that State is not engaged in such commerce, the cause of action
must be regarded not as involving any infringement of the
powers of the State of Louisiana, or any special injury to her
property, but as asserting that the State is entitled to relief in
this way because the matters complained of affect her citizens
at large. Nevertheless if the case stated is not one presenting
a controversy between these States, the exercise of original jurisdiction by this court as against the State of Texas cannot
be maintained."
After quoting the provisions of the statute of the State of
Texas regulating the subject of quarantine, the Chief Justice
proceeded to say:
"It is not charged that this statute is invalid, nor could it be
if tested by its terms. While it is true that the power vested
in Congress to regulate commerce among the States is a power
complete in itself, acknowledging no limitations other than
those prescribed in the Constitution, and that where the action
of the States in the exercise of their reserved powers comes
into collision with it, the latter must give way, yet it is also
true that quarantine laws belong to that class of state legislation which is valid until displaced by Congress, and that such
legislation has been expressly recognized by the laws of the
United States almost from the beginning of the government.
. . . The complaint here, however, is not that the laws of
Texas in respect of quarantine are invalid, but that the health
officer, by rules and regulations framed and put in force by him
thereunder, places an embargo in fact on all interstate coinmerce between the State of Louisiana and the State of Texas,
and that the Governor permits these rules and regulations to
stand and be enforced, although he has the power to modify
or change them. The bill is not rested merely on the ground
of the imposition of an embargo without regard to motive, but
charges that the rules and regulations are more stringent than
called for by the particular exigency, and are purposely framed
with the view to benefit the State of Texas, and the city of Galveston in particular, at the expense of the State of Louisiana,
and especially of the city of New Orleans.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

"But in order that a controversy between States, justiciable
in this court, can be held to exist, something more must be put
forward than that the citizens of one State are injured by the
maladministration of the laws of another. The States cannot
make war, or enter into treaties, though they may, with the
consent of Congress, make compacts and agreements. Where
there is no agreement, where breach might create it, a controversy between States does not arise unless the action complained
of is state action, and acts of state officers in abuse or excess
of their powers cannot be laid hold of as in themselves committing one State to a distinct collision with a sister State.
"In our judgment, this bill does not set up facts which show
that the State of Texas has so authorized or confirmed the alleged action of her health officer as to make it her own, or from
which it necessarily follows that the two States are in controversy within the meaning of the Constitution.
"Finally, we are unable to hold that the bill may be maintained as presenting a case of controversy ' between a State and
citizens of another State.' Jurisdiction over controversies of
that sort does not embrace the determination of political questions, and, where no controversy exists between States, it is not
for this court to restrain the Governor of a State in the discharge of his executive functions in a matter lawfully confided
to his discretion and judgment. Nor can we accept the suggestion that the bill can be maintained as against the health officer
alone on the theory that his conduct is in violation or in excess
of a valid law of the State, as the remedy for that would clearly
lie with the state authorities, and no refusal to fulfil their duty
in that regard is set up. In truth it is difficult to see how on
this record there could be a controversy between the State of
Louisiana and the individual defendants without involving a
controversy between the States, and such a controversy, as we
have said, is not presented."
Accordingly the demurrer was sustained and bill dismissed.
From the language of the Constitution, and from the cases
in which that language has been considered, what principles
may be derived as to the nature and extent of the original jurisdiction of this court in controversies between two or more
States?

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

239

Opinion of the Court.

From the language, alone considered, it might be concluded
that whenever, and in all cases where one State may choose to
make complaint against another, no matter whether the sub,
ject of complaint arises from the legislation of the defendant
State, or from acts of its officers and agents, and no matter
whether the nature of the injury complained of is to affect the
property rights or the sovereign powers of the complaining
State, or to affect the rights of its citizens, the jurisdiction of
this court would attach.
Chief Justice Marshall in the case of Cohens v. Virginia,
6 Wheat. 264, 392, said:
"The Constitution gives the Supreme Court original jurisdiction in certain enumerated cases, and gives it appellate jurisdiction in all others. Among those in which jurisdiction must be
exercised in the appellate form are cases arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States. These provisions of
the Constitution are equally obligatory, and are to be equally
respected. If a State be a party, the jurisdiction of this court
is original; if the case arise under a constitution or a law, the
jurisdiction is appellate. But a case to which a State is a party
may arise under the Constitution or a law of the United States.
What rule is applicable to such a case ? What, then, becomes
the duty of the court? Certainly, we think, so to construe the
Constitution as to give effect to both provisions, as far as possible to reconcile them, and not to permit their seeming repugnancy to destroy each other. We must endeavor so to construe
them as to preserve the true intent and meaning of the instrument.
"In one description of cases the jurisdiction of the court is
founded entirely on the character of the parties; and the nature
of the controversy is not contemplated by the Constitution.
The character of the parties is everything, the nature of the
case nothing. In the other description of cases the jurisdiction
is founded entirely on the character of the case, and the parties
are not contemplated by the Constitution. In these the nature
of the case is everything, the character of the parties nothing.
When, then, the Constitution declares the jurisdiction, in cases
where a State shall be a party, to be original, and in all cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

arising under the Constitution or a law to be appellate, the conclusion seems irresistible that its framers designed to include in
the first class those cases in which jurisdiction is given, because
a State is a party; and to include in the second those in which
jurisdiction is given, because the case arises under the Constitution or a law."
But it must be conceded that upon further consideration, in
cases arising under different states of facts, the general language
used in Cohens v. Virginia, has been, to some extent, modified.
Thus, in the cases of New Hampshire v. Louisiana, and New
York v. Louisiana, ut supra, jurisdiction was denied to this
court where the cause of action belonged to private persons,
who were endeavoring to use the name of one State to enforce
their rights of action against another. Though, perhaps, it
may be said that jurisdiction was really entertained, and that
the bills were dismissed, because the court found that, under
the pleadings and testimony, the State's complainant had no
interest of any kind in the proceedings.
So, too, in Wisconsin v. Pelican Insurance Oornpany, ut
s+pra, the court held that, notwithstanding the action was
brought by a State against the citizens of another State and
was thus within the letter of the Constitution, yet that the
court had a right to inquire into the nature of the case, and,
when it found that the object of the suit was to enforce the
penal laws of one State against a citizen of another, to refuse
to exercise jurisdiction.
In the case of Louisiana v. Texas, ut supra, the bill was dismissed because a controversy between the two States was not
actually presented; that what was complained of was not any
action of the State of Texas, but the alleged unauthorized conduct
of its health officer, acting with a malevolent purpose against the
city of New Orleans. Here again it may be observed that the
court did not decline jurisdiction, but exercised it in holding
that the facts alleged in the bill did not justify the court in
granting the relief prayed for.
The cases cited show that such jurisdiction has been exercised
in cases involving boundaries and jurisdiction over lands and
their inhabitants, and in cases directly affecting the property

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

241

Opinion of the Court.

rights and interests of a State. But such cases manifestly do
not cover the entire field in which such controversies may arise,
and for which the Constitution has provided a remedy; and it
would be objectionable, and, indeed, impossible, for the court
to anticipate by definition what controversies can and what cannot be brought within the original jurisdiction of this court.
An inspection of the bill discloses that the nature of the injury complained of is such that an adequate remedy can only
be found in this court at the suit of the State of Missouri. It
is true that no question of boundary is involved, nor of direct
property rights belonging to the complainant State. But it
must surely be conceded that, if the health and comfort of the
inhabitants of a State are threatened, the State is the proper
party to represent and defend them. If Missouri were an independent and sovereign State all must admit that she could
seek a remedy by negotiation, and, that failing, by force. Diplomatic powers and the right to make war having been surrendered
to the general government, it was to be expected that upon the
latter would be devolved the duty of providing a remedy and
that remedy, we think, is found in the constitutional provisions
we are considering.
The allegations of the bill plainly present such a case. The
health and comfort of the large communities inhabiting those
parts of the State situated on the Mississippi River are not alone
concerned, but contagious and typhoidal diseases introduced in
the river communities may spread themselves throughout the
territory of the State. Moreover substantial impairment of
the health and prosperity of the towns and cities of the State
situated on the Mississippi River, including its commercial metropolis, would injuriously affect the entire State.
That suits brought by individuals, each for personal injuries,
threatened or received, would be wholly inadequate and disproportionate remedies, requires no argument.
It is further contended, in support of the demurrer, that even
if the State of Missouri be the proper party to file such a bill,
yet that the proper defendant is the Sanitary District of Chicago
solely, and that the State of Illinois should not have been made
a party, and that, as to her, the demurrer ought to be sustained.
VOL. CLXXX-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

It can scarcely be supposed, in view of the express provisions
of the Constitution and of the cited cases, that it is claimed
that the State of Illinois is exempt from suit because she is a
sovereign State which has not consented to be sued. The contention rather seems to be that, because the matters complained
of in the bill proceed and will continue to proceed from the acts
of the Sanitary District of Chicago, a corporation of the State
of Illinois, it therefore follows that the State, as such, is not
interested in the question, and is improperly made a party.
We are unable to see the force of this suggestion. The bill
does not allege that the Sanitary District is acting without or in
excess of lawful authority. The averment and the conceded
facts are that the corporation is an agency of the State to do
the very things which, according to the theory of the complainant's case, will result in the mischief to be apprehended. It is
state action and its results that are complained of-thus distinguishing this case from that of louisiana v. Texas, where
the acts sought to be restrained were alleged to be those of officers or functionaries proceeding in a wrongful and malevolent
misapplication of the quarantine laws of Texas. The Sanitary
District of Chicago is not a private corporation, formed for purposes of private gain, but a public corporation, whose existence"
and operations are wholly within the control of the State.
The object of the bill is to subject this public work to judicial supervision, upon the allegation that the method of its construction and maintenance will create a continuing nuisance,
dangerous to the health of a neighboring State and its inhabitants. Surely, in such a case, the State of Illinois would have
a right to appear and traverse the allegations of the bill, and,
having such a right, might properly be made a party defendant.
It is further contended that, even if this court has original
jurisdiction of the subject-matter, and even if the respective
States have been properly made parties, yet the case made out
by the bill does not entitle the State of Missouri to the equitable relief prayed for.
This proposition is sought to be maintained by several considerations. In the first place, it is urged that the drawing, by
artificial means, of the sewage of the city of Chicago into the

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

243

Opinion of the Court.

Mississippi River may or may not become a nuisance to the inhabitants, cities and towns of Missouri; that the injuries apprehended are merely eventual or contingent, and may, in fact,
never be inflicted. Can it be gravely contended that there are
no preventive remedies, by way of injunction or otherwise,
against injuries not inflicted or experienced, but which would
appear to be the natural result of acts of the defendant, which
lie admits or avows it to be his intention to commit?
The bill charges that the acts of the defendants, if not restrained, will result in the transportation, by artificial means
and through an unnatural channel, of large quantities of undefecated sewage daily, and of accumulated deposits in the harbor
of Chicago and in the bed of the Illinois River, which will poison the water supply of the inhabitants of Missouri and injuriously affect that portion of the bed or soil of the Mississippi
River which lies within its territory.
In such a state of facts, admitted by the demurrer to be true,
we do not feel it necessary to enter at large into a discussion
of this part of the defendants' contention, but think it sufficient
to cite one or two authorities.
Attorney General v. Jamaica Pond Aqueduct Corporation,
133 Mass. 361, was a proceeding in equity in the Supreme
Judicial Court to enjoin the defendants from lowering the
water in one of the public ponds of Massachusetts. It was
claimed that the necessary effect of such lowering would be to
impair the rights of the people in the use of the pond for fishing, boating and other lawful purposes, and to create and expose upon the shores of the pond a large quantity of slime, mud
and offensive vegetation, detrimental to the public health. The
defendants demurred, claiming that no case was stated which
came within the equity jurisdiction of the court, and questioning the power of the attorney general, on behalf of the Commonwealth, to maintain the proceedings. Speaking for the
court, the Chief Justice said:
"The cases are numerous in which it has been held that the
attorney general may maintain an information in equity to restrain a corporation exercising the right of eminent domain
under a power delegated to it by the legislature, from any abuse

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

or perversion of the powers which may create a public nuisance
or injuriously affect or endanger the public interests,"-citing
many cases, and proceeding:
"The information in this case alleges not only that the defendant is doing acts which are ultra vires and an abuse of the
power granted to it by the legislature, but also that the necessary effect of said acts will be to create a public nuisance. This
brings the case within the established principle that the court
has jurisdiction in equity to restrain and prevent nuisances.
And when the nuisance is a public one an information by the
attorney general is the appropriate remedy. This information,
therefore, can be sustained on the ground that the unlawful
acts of the defendant will produce a public nuisance by partially
draining the pond and exposing its shores, thus endangering
the public health."
And replying to the claim that resort to equity was unnecessary, the court further said:
"The defendant contends that the law furnishes a plain, adequate and complete remedy for this nuisance by an indictment
or by proceedings under the statutes for the abatement of a
nuisance by the board of health. Neither of these remedies
can be invoked until a part of the mischief is done, and they
could not, in the nature of things, restore the pond, the land
and the underground currents to the same condition in which
they now are. In other words, they could not remedy the
whole mischief. The preventive force of a decree in equity,
restraining the illegal acts before any mischief is done, gives
clearly a more efficacious and complete remedy."
The nature of equitable remedy in the case of public nuisances
was well described by Mr. Justice Harlan, speaking for the
court in the case of ugler v. Kansa8, 123 U. S. 623, 673:
" The grounds of this jurisdiction, in cases of pupresture, as
well as of public nuisances, is the ability of courts of equity to
give a more speedy, effectual and permanent remedy than can
be had at law. They cannot only prevent nuisances that are
threatened, and before irreparable mischief ensues, but arrest
or abate those in progress, and by perpetual injunction protect
the public against them in the future; whereas courts of law

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

245

Opinion of the Court.

can only reach existing nuisances, leaving future acts to be the
subject of new prosecutions or proceedings. This is a salutary
jurisdiction, especially where a nuisance affects the health,
morals or safety of the community."
In Coosaw Mining Co. v. South Carolina, 144 U. S. 550, it
was said by this court, through Mr. Justice Ifarlan, after citing
English and American cases:
"Proceedings at law or by indictment can only reach past or
present wrongs done by appellant, and will not adequately protect the public interests in the future. What the public are
entitled to have is security for all time against illegal interference with the control by the State of the digging, mining and
removing of phosphate rock and phosphate deposits in the bed
of Coosaw River."
It is finally contended that, if the bill was not prematurely
filed, then it was filed too late; that, by standing by for so
long a period, the complainant was guilty of such laches that
a court of equity will not grant relief.
The inconsistency between these contentions is manifest, and
on consideration, we are of opinion that the suggestion that the
complainant's remedy has been lost by delay, is not founded in
fact or reason.
In Goldsmid v. Tuanbridge Wells Commissioners, L. R. 1
Eq. 161, answering a similar contention, it was said by Roinilly, M. R.:
"If the plaintiff comes to the court and complains very early,
then the evidence is that the pollution is not preceptible, it is
wholly inappreciable, and you get evidence after evidence for
the defendants, (the pollution being slight and perhaps only
observable at some times and on some occasions,) saying you
have no proof at all that there is any appreciable pollution,
and you must wait until it becomes a nuisance. Then he waits
for five or six years, until it is obvious to everybody's sense
that the pollution is considerable, and then they say 'you have
come too late, you have allowed this to continue on for twenty
years, and we have acquired an easement over your property,
and the right of pouring the sewage into it.' My opinion is
that any person who has a water course flowing through his

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

land, and sewage which is preceptible is brought into that water
course, has a right to come here to stop it; and that when the
pollution is increasing, and gradually increasing from time to
time, by the additional quantity of sewage poured into it, the
persons who allow the polluted matter to flow into the stream
are not at liberty to claim any right or prescription against
him . ..
"This is a matter of very great importance, and it has been
suggested to me in argument as a matter that ought to be regarded that private interests must give way to public interests;
that the court ought to regard what the advantage to the public is, and that some little sacrifice ought to be made by private
individuals. I do not assent to that view of the law on the
subject, and I apprehend that the observations which were
quoted to me of Vice Chancellor Sir William Page Wood, in
the Attorney General v. Tke Mayor of Kingston, 13 W. R. 888,
are perfectly accurate, and that private rights are not to be interfered with. But my firm conviction is that in this, as in all
the great dispensations and operations of nature, the interests
of the individuals are not only compatible with but identical
with the interests of the public; and although in this case I
have only to consider an injury to the private individual, the
plaintiff in the present action, yet I believe that the injury to
the public may be extremely great by polluting a stream which
flows for a considerable distance, the water of which cattle are
in the habit of drinking, the exhalations from which persons
who reside on the banks must necessarily inhale, and this at a
time when the attention of the people and the court is necessarily called to the fact that the most scientific men who have
examined the subject are unable to say whether great diseases
among cattle and contagious diseases affecting human beings,
such as cholera or typhus, and the like, may not in a great
measure be communicated or aggravated by the absorption of
particles of feculent matter into the system, which are either
inappreciable or scarcely appreciable by the most minute chemical analysis. It is impossible in that state of things to say
what amount of injury may be done by polluting even partially
a stream which flows a considerable distance. I am of opinion

MISSOURt v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

247

Opinion of the Court.

that Mr. Goldsmid was not bound to remain quiet until this
stream had become such a nuisance that it was obvious to everybody near its banks; and the result is that in my opinion he is
entitled to a decree for an injunction to restrain the defendants
from causing or permitting the sewage and other offensive matters from the town of Tunbridge Wells to be discharged into
the Calverly Brook, or stream, in such a manner as to affect
the waters of the brook as it flows through the plaintiff's land."
This decree of the Master of the Rolls was subsequently affirmed on appeal. L. R. 1 Ch. App. 349.
Similar views prevailed in Ckapman v. Rochester, 110 N. Y.
273, where a bill was filed to enjoin the defendant city from
polluting, by the discharge of sewage by artificial means, a
natural stream flowing through his lands.
In the opinion of the New York Court of Appeals, it was
said by Danforth, J., after citing Goldsnfid v. Tunbridge l1Wells:
"In view of the principle upon which these and like decisions
turn, the objections of the learned counsel for the defendant
against the judgment appealed from are quite unimportant.
The filth of the city does not flow naturally to the lands of the
plaintiff, as surface water finds its level, but is carried thither
by artificial arrangements, prepared by the city, and for which
it is responsible. Nor is the plaintiff estopped by acquiescence
in the proceedings of the city in devising and carrying out its
sewerage system. The principle invoked by the appellant has
no application. It does not appear that the plaintiff in any
way encouraged the adoption of that system, or by any act or
word induced the city authorities to so direct the sewers that
the flow from them should reach his premises. There is no
finding to that effect, and the record contains no evidence. In
fine, the case comes within the general rule, which gives to a
person injured by the pollution of air or water, to the use of
which, in its natural condition, he is entitled, an action against
the party, whether it be a natural person or corporation who
causes that pollution."
Cases cited by defendants' counsel, where injunctions were
refused to aid in the suppression of public nuisances, were cases
where the act complained of was fully completed, and where

OCTOBER TERM, 1900,
Opinion of the Court.

the nuisance was not one resulting from conduct repeated from
day to day. Most of them were cases of purpresture, and concerned permanent structures already existing when courts in
equity were appealed to.
The bill in this case does not assail the drainage canal as an
unlawful structure, nor aim to prevent its use as a waterway.
What is sought is relief against the pouring of sewage and filth
through it, by artificial arrangements, into the Mississippi River,
to the detriment of the State of Missouri and her inhabitants,
and the acts are not merely those that have been done, or which
when done cease to operate, but acts contemplated as continually
repeated from day to day. The relief prayed for is against
not merely the creation of a nuisance but against its maintenance.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the demurrers filed by the
respective defendants cannot be sustained. We do not wish to
be understood as holding that, in a case like the present one,
where the injuries complained of grow out of the prosecution
of a public work, authorized by law, a court of equity ought to
interpose by way of preliminary or interlocutory injunction,
when it is denied by answer that there is any reasonable foundation for the charges contained in the bill. We are dealing with
the case of a bill alleging, in explicit terms, that damage and
irreparable injury will naturally and necessarily be occasioned
by acts of the defendants, and where the defendants have chosen
to have their rights disposed of, so far as the present hearing is
concerned, upon the assertions of this bill.
We fully agree with the contention of defendants' counsel
that it is settled that an injunction to restrain a nuisance will
issue only in cases where the fact of nuisance is made out upon
determinate and satisfactory evidence; that if the evidence
be conflicting and the injury be doubtful, that conflict and
doubt will be a ground for withholding an injunction; and
that, where interposition by injunction is sought, to restrain
that which is apprehended will create a nuisance of which its
complainant may complain, the proofs must show such a state
of facts as will manifest the danger to be real and immediate.

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS & CHICAGO DISTRICT.

249

Opinion of the Court.

But such observations are not relevant to the case as it is now
before us.
The demurrers are overruled, and leave is given to the defendants to file answers to the bill.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, with
TICE

HARLAN and Mn.

whom concurred MR. JUS-

JUSTICE WHITE,

dissenting:

Controversies between the States of this Union are made justiciable by the Constitution because other modes of determining
them were surrendered; and before that jurisdiction, which is
intended to supply the place of the means usually resorted to
by independent sovereignties to terminate their differences, can
be invoked, it must appear that the States are in direct antagonism as States. Clearly this bill makes out no such state of
case.
If, however, on the case presented, it was competent for
Missouri to implead the State of Illinois, the only ground on

which it can be rested is to be found in the allegation that its
Governor was about to authorize the water to be turned into
the drainage channel.
The Sanitary District was created by an act of the General Assembly of Illinois, and the only authority of the State having

any control and supervision over the channel is that corporation.
Any other control or supervision lies with the law-making power
of the State of Illinois, and I cannot suppose that complainant
seeks to coerce that. It is difficult to conceive what decree

could be entered in this case which would bind the State of
Illinois or control its action.
The Governor, it is true, was empowered by the act to authorize the water to be let into the channel on the receipt of a
certificate, by commissioners appointed by him to inspect the
work, that the channel was of the capacity and character required. This was done, and the water was let in on the day
when the application was made to this court for leave to file
the bill. The Governor had discharged his duty, and no official
act of Illinois, as such, remained to be performed.
Assuming that a bill could be maintained against the Sanitary

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

District in a proper case, I cannot agree that the State of Illinois would be a necessary or proper party, or that this bill can
be maintained against the corporation as the case stands.
The act complained of is not a nuisance,per se, and the injury
alleged to be threatened is contingent. As the channel has
been in operation for a year, it is probable that the supposed
basis of complaint can now be tested. But it does not follow
that the bill in its present shape should be retained.
In my opinion both the demurrers should be sustained, and
the bill dismissed, without prejudice to a further application,
as against the Sanitary District, if authorized by the State of
Missouri.

My brothers

HARLAN

and

WHITE

concur with me in this dis-

sel;t

In re DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, No. 1.
In re DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, No. 2.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 13 and 14. Original. Argued January 21, 1901.-lDecided February 11, 1901.
Section 1088 of the Revised Statutes relates to cases in which the Court of
Claims is satisfied from the evidence that some fraud, wrong or injustice
has been done the United States as matter of fact, and this is so in its

application to tile District of Columbia under the act of June 16, 1880.
The motions for new trial involved in these cases were grounded on error
of law, to correct which the remedy was by appeal.
Resort cannot be bad to motions under section 1088 simply because on appeals in other similar cases it had been determined by this court that the
court below had erred.

T E case is stated in the opinion of the court.

XJr. Robert A.. lioward for the District of Columbia, petitioner.
iXTr. A. A. Hoehling, Jr., by leave of court, filed a brief in bealf of certain interested parties.

