MITCHELL v. FIRST NAT. BANK OF CHICAGO.

471

Opinion of the Court.

MITCHELL v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO.
OERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
Argued October 11, 12, 1900.-

Decided March 5, 1901.

Whatever may be the nature of a question presented for judicial determination-whether depending on Federal, general or local law-if it be
embraced by the issues made, its determination by a court having jurisdiction of the parties and of the subject-matter binds the parties and
their privies so long as the judgment remains unmodified or unreversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
jr. Theodore ff.. .Xaltbie and Xr. Charles E. Mitchell for
petitioner.
Mr. Percy S. Bryant and ir.
dent.

William C. Case for respon-

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit upon a written guaranty held by the First National Bank of Chicago. It was signed in Connecticut by 11.
Drusilla Mitchell, she being a married woman, and by others,
and was delivered in Chicago to the bank under circumstances
presently to be stated.
The Circuit Court held that the liability of Mrs. Mitchell
should be determined by the laws of Connecticut. The Circuit
Court of Appeals adjudged that as the writing was delivered
to the bank in "llinois, Mrs. Mitchell's liability was determinable by the laws of that State.
The case, however, presents the further question whether the
precise matter in issue-the liability of Mrs. Mitchell notvithstanding her coverture at the time the guaranty was signedwas not adjudicated against the bank in the courts of Connecticut prior to the final judgment in the present case; and if so,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

whether the bank was concluded by that adjudication, which
remains unmodified.
The case as presented by the pleadings and by the agreed
facts set forth in a written stipulation of the parties is this:
In 1891 and prior thereto the firm of Morse, Mitchell & WilHams, composed of Francis E. Morse, Frederick C. Williams
and George I-. Mitchell, (the latter being the husband of H.
Drusilla Mitchell,) was engaged in mercantile and real estate
business at Chicago, Illinois, and kept an account with the
First National Bank of that city.
The firm became indebted to the bank in the sum of $20,000
or more, as evidenced by its notes. The bank agreed to continue giving it credit upon the condition that the firm and its
individual members, together with Mrs. Mitchell, would execute a certain paper which it had directed to be prepared.
Mitchell and his wife at the time resided in Connecticut, and
did not have a residence elsewhere after their marriage, which
occurred in 1857. IHe took the paper prepared by the bank
and brought it to his residence in Connecticut and there procured his wife to sign the same, and it was thereafter by him
enclosed, addressed and sent by mail to Morse in Chicago, who
delivered the paper to the bank.
The paper referred to was signed by Morse, Mitchell & Williams, Francis E. Morse, Frederick C. Williams, G. H. Mitchell,
and I1. Drusilla Mitchell, and was as follows: "We hereby
request the First National Bank of Chicago to give and continue
to Morse, Mitchell & Williams credit as they may desire from
time to time, and in consideration of all and any such credit
given we hereby guarantee any and all indebtedness now due
or which may hereafter become due from them to said bank,
to the extent of thirty thousand dollars, and waive notice of the
acceptance of this guaranty and of any and all'indebtedness at
any time covered by the same. This guaranty shall continue
until written notice from us of the discontinuance thereof shall
be received by said The First National Bank of Chicago. Chicago, Ill., Feb. 20th, 1891."
The bank continued to extend credit to Morse, Mitchell &
Williams until the firm became insolvent and made an assign-

MITCHELL v. FIRST NAT. BANK OF CHICAGO. 473
Opinion of the Court.

ment for the benefit of its creditors on the 30th day of July,
1893. At the time of such insolvency and assignment it held
and owned the notes of Morse, Mitchell & Williams; renewals
of unpaid portions of the above-mentioned notes, for $16,500 ;
a note of Elizabeth Ewing endorsed by that firm; also notes of
F. E. Morse & Son, with whom George 11. Mitchell had no
connection.
It appears that on the 28th day of December, 1893, Mrs. Mitchell notified the executor of her father that she had assigned and
transferred to the bank all of her right, title and interest in so
much of the testator's estate as was then undistributed, and authorized such executor to pay to the bank all money and property
coming to her or to which she was entitled from that estate.
The present action was brought by the bank in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Connecticut on
the 30th day of December, 1895, against Mrs. Mitchell and her
husband. The complaint alleged that in reliance upon and in
consideration of the above guaranty and promise, the bank had
extended credit and advanced money to Morse, Mitchell &
Williams from time to time and within the period specified in
the instrument to the amount of thirty thousand dollars ; and
for that amount it claimed judgment.
Mr. Mitchell, by plea in abatement filed April 28, 1896,
(her husband having died the month previous,) averred that at
the time the above guaranty was executed, as well as at the
commencement of the action, "she was a married woman, the
wife of George 11. Mitchell, since deceased, and was so married
prior to April 27, 1877, viz., on the - day of 1857, and
has not entered into the contract authorized by section 2798,
General Statutes of Connecticut."
The section here referred to as well as the two preceding sections are as follows:
"§ 2796. In case of marriages on or after April 20, 1877,
neither husband nor wife shall acquire, by force of the marriage, any right to or interest in any property held by the other
before, or acquired after, such marriage, except as to the share
of the survivor in the property, as provided by law. The separate earnings of the wife shall be her sole property. She shall

OCTOBER TERM,

1900.

Opinion of the Court.

have power to make contracts with third persons, and to convey to them her real and personal estate, as if unmarried. Her
property shall be liable to be taken for her debts, except when
exempt from execution, but in no case shall be liable to be
taken for the debts of the husband. And the husband shall
not be liable for her debts contracted before marriage, nor
upon her contracts made after marriage, except as provided in
the succeeding section.
"§ 2797. All purchases made by either husband or wife in
his or her own name shall be presumed, in the absence of notice to the contrary, to be on his or her private account and
liability; but both shall be liable when any article purchased
by either shall have in fact gone to the support of the family,
or for the joint benefit of both, or for the reasonable apparel
of the wife, or for her reasonable support, while abandoned by
her husband. It shall, however, be the duty of the husband
to support his family, and his property when found shall be
first applied to satisfy any such joint liability; and the wife
shall in equity be entitled to an indemnity from the property
of the husband, for any property of her own that shall have
been taken, or for any money that she shall have been compelled to pay, for the satisfaction of any such claim.
"§ 2798. In case of marriage existing prior to April 20,
1877, the provisions of the two preceding sections shall apply,
whenever any husband and wife have entered, or shall hereafter enter, during marriage, into a written contract with each
other for the mutual abandonment of all rights of either in the
property of the other, under prior statutes, or at common law,
and for the acceptance instead thereof of the rights in said sections provided, which contract shall be recorded in the Court
of Probate of the district, and in the town clerk's office of the
town in which they reside. And thereupon, said provisions
shall apply to such marriage." Gen. Stats. Conn. 1888, pp. 610,
611.
It appears that at a Court of Probate, held at Bristol, Connecticut, on the 30th day of September, 1896-after the institution of the present suit in the Federal Court and after commissioners in insolvency in the probate court had made a report

MITCHELL v. FIRST NAT. BANK OF CHICAGO. 475
Opinion of the Court.

on the estate of Mrs. Mitchell-Edward A. Freeman, trustee of
that estate, took an appeal to the Superior Court at lhartford
from "the doings of said commissioners in allowing a claim in
favor of the First National Bank of Chicago "-the same claim
on which the bank brought this suit.
In the Superior Court the bank filed a statement in which it
was alleged that its claim was secured by an assignment to it of
Mrs. Mitchell's interest in the estate of her father. Mrs. Mitchell filed an answer denying certain allegations in that statement
and pleading among other things her coverture at the time of
the signing of the writing relied on by the bank and her residence in Connecticut during all her married life and since. To
this answer the bank filed a reply. The parties-the bank and
the trustee Freeman-consented in writing that the case be
reserved "for the advice of the Supreme Court of Errors of the
State as to the judgment to be therein rendered," and they
united in requesting the Superior Court "to so reserve the case
upon the issues joined and the agreed facts." In conformity
with this request the case was reserved. At the same time the
parties filed in that court their agreed statement of facts.
It may be here stated that in Connecticut "questions of law
may be reserved by the Superior Court, Court of Common Pleas,
or District Court, in cases tried before either of them, for the
advice of the Supreme Court of Errors: Provided,That no such
questions shall be reserved without the consent of all parties to
the record in such cases; and the court making such reservation
shall, in the judgment, decree or decision made or rendered in
such cases, conform to the advice of the Supreme Court of ErPors." Gen. Stat. Conn. 1888, p. 260, § 1114.
The Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut advised the Superior Court to disallow every part of the claim of the bank.
Speaking by Judge Baldwin it said, among other things: "Mrs.
Mitchell, being a citizen of Connecticut, married a citizen of
Connecticut in 1857, and they continued to reside in this State
until his death. her marriage gave her, under the laws of the
State then in force, substantially the status which belonged to
a married woman at common law. Her personal identity, from
a judicial point of view, was merged in that of her husband.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Thereafter, during coverture, she could make no contract that
would be binding upon her, even by his express authority. 1
Swift's Dig. 30. If she assumed to make such a contract, it was
absolutely void. These personal disabilities the common law
imposed partly for the protection of the husband and partly for
that of the wife. To preserve what property rights remained
to her, as far as might be, against his creditors, various statutes
were from time to time enacted, until this long ago became recognized as the established policy of the State. Jack8on v Hubbard, 36 Connecticut, 10, 15.
These statutes were mainly
designed to protect her against others. The common law was
sufficient to protect her against herself, and prior to 1877 it precluded her from making any contract as surety for her husband.
Kilbournv. Brown, 56 Connecticut, 149. A statute of that year
establishes a different rule for women married after its enactment, but does not enlarge the rights of those previously married. Gen. Stats. Conn. § 2796. Whenever a peculiar status
is assigned by law to the members of any particular class of
persons affecting their general position in or with regard to the
rest of the community, no one belonging to such class can vary
by any contract the rights and liabilities incident to this status.
Anson's Principles of Contract, 328. If he could, his private
agreements would outweigh the law of the land. Juspublicum
privatorum pactis muiari non _potest. Coverture constitutes
such a status, and one of its incidents in this State at the time of
Mrs. Mitchell's marriage was a total disability to contract. So
far as contracts of suretyship for their husbands are concerned,
the disability of women married before 1877 remains absolute
unless both husband and wife have executed for public record a
written contract by which both accede to the provisions of the
statute of that year and accept the rights which it offers to them.
Gen. Stats. § 2798. No such contract was ever executed by
Mrs. Mitchell.
"The claim in favor of the First National Bank of Chicago,
which has been allowed by the commissioners on her estate,
was founded on a debt due from a mercantile firm in Illinois
of which her husband was a member, for which she had assuned to make herself responsible, as guarantor, by a writing

MITCHELL v. FIRST NAT. BANK OF CHICAGO.

477

Opinion of the Court.
dated in Illinois, but signed in this State.

He [the hus-

.

band] sent the paper, as soon as it was completed, not to the
bank, but to another or the principals. If he represented any
one but himself, it was his copartners. The delivery of the
paper by his wife to him, therefore, after her signature had
been attached, was not a delivery to the bank, but simply purported to give him authority as her agent to make or procure
such a delivery at some subsequent time.

.

.

.

Engage-

ments which coverture prevents a woman from making herself
she cannot make through the interposition of an agent whom
she assumes to constitute as such in the State of her domicil. If
this were not so the law could always be evaded by her appointment of an attorney to act for her in the execution of contracts. No principle of comity can require a State to lend the
aid of its courts to enforce a security which rests on a transgression of its own law by one of its own citizens, committed
within its own territory. Such was, in effect, the act by which
Mrs. Mitchell undertook to do, what she had no legal capacity
to do, by making her husband the agent to deliver the guaranty
to the bank. He had no more power to make it operative by
delivery in Chicago to one of his creditors in Illinois than he
would have had to make it operative here had it been drawn in
favor of one of his creditors in Connecticut. It is not the place
of delivery that controls, but the power of delivery. The Superior Court is advised to disallow all and every part of the
claim of the First National Bank," Freeman's Appeal, 68
Connecticut, 533, 542.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut
was rendered February 23, 1897; and on March 2, 1897, the
Superior Court in conformity with the advice of the former
court entered judgment disallowing the claims of the bank
against the estate of Mrs. Mitchell.
After this judgment the bank proceeded with the case commenced by it in the Circuit Court of the United States on the
30th day of December, 1895, just as if nothing had occurred in
the state courts affecting its claim. Mrs. Mitchell on May 22,
1897, filed in that court a substitute plea in abatement, asking
judgment in her favor, "because she signed said writing, Ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

hibit 'A,' [the writing of February 20, 1891], at her domicil in
Bristol, in the State of Connecticut, and was, at the time of signing the same, a married woman, the wife of said George H.
Mitchell, to whom she was married in 1857, at said Bristol,
where she has ever since resided." She also filed on May 26,
1897, an answer, alleging that she signed said guaranty at her
domicil in Connecticut and not elsewhere, she being then a married woman, and stating that said copartnership at the time the

alleged guaranty was signed, and prior thereto, "was indebted
to the plaintiff in a large sum, viz., $25,000 and more, and the
plaintiff did not thereafter give said copartnership additional
credit, but such indebtedness was largely reduced." Subsequently, June 8, 1897, the parties having previously stipulated
in writing to waive a jury, filed in the Circuit Court an agreed
statement of facts, which did not materially differ from the one
filed in the Superior Court at Hartford.
The Circuit Court of the United States gave judgment for the
defendant. It referred to the above decision of the Supreme
Court of Errors of Connecticut, and said among other things:
"The capacity of citizens of a State, so long as they actually
remain within the borders of the State, would seem to be a
matter of local law, to be controlled by the laws of the State,
and not to be evaded by the simple device of sending or mailing
a letter to some other State. Suppose that the laws of some
State should provide that infants might attain their majority
and become capable of contracting at the age of eighteen years,
could it be held that a minor eighteen years old in Connecticut
could, by mailing a contract to that State, subject his property
in Connecticut to execution against the will of his guardian and
against the determination of the legislature and courts of Connecticut? . . . In the present case, the law by which the
invalidity of a contract is established is the common law, and
the decisions that a married woman has capacity to make such
contracts are founded upon local statutes. In these circumstances I think it is the duty of this court to follow the decision
of the Connecticut court of last resert." 84 Fed. Rep. 90.
The case was carried by the bank to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, in which court the judgment was reversed with in-

MITCHELL v. FIRST NAT. BANK OF CHICAGO.

479

Opinion of the Court.

structions to the Circuit Court to render a judgment in favor of
the bank for the amount due by the terms of the guaranty of
February 20, 1891. That court, one of its members dissenting,
held that the guaranty in question became effective and was to
be deemed to have been made when delivered in Illinois, and
that its validity as a contract was determinable by the law of
that State and not by the laws of Connecticut. The court said :
" We are extremely reluctant to differ with the Supreme Court
of Connecticut in a case involving the same facts, between substantially the same parties, not only because the opinion of that
learned tribunal is always entitled to great consideration, but
also because it is, in a sense, unseemly that there should be diverse judgments under such circumstances between a Federal
court sitting in that State and the highest court of the State.
But the case is one which concerns the rights of a citizen of Illinois, acquired before the decision of the state court; and its
decision depends, not upon the construction of local laws, but
upon the application of the principles of general jurisprudence.
In such cases the Federal courts are in duty bound to exercise
their own independent judgment. In view of the decision of
the Supreme Court of Connecticut, we should be glad to certify
the question which we have thus considered to the Supreme
Court for its instructions, but we do not feel authorized to do so,
especially as that tribunal, under the power to issue a certiorari,
can review our judgment if it sees fit." 92 Fed. Rep. 565.
In the view we take of this case it is not necessary to inquire
whether the liability of Mrs. Mitchell under the writing of February 20, 1891, was determinable by the laws of Connecticut or
by the laws of Illinois. If, as the bank contends, that writing
became a contract when delivered to the bank in Illinois, and
not before, and if, as is also contended, Mrs. Mitchell was liable
thereon by the laws of that State, although she was a married
woman at the time of signing the writing in Connecticut where
she resided, the question remains whether the parties were not
concluded by the final judgment of the 1artford County Superior Court based upon the judgment rendered in the Supreme
Court of Errors of Connecticut. There can be no doubt that
the identical question now presented-namely, as to the lia-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

bility of Mrs. Mitchell on the writing in suit notwithstanding
her coverture-arose in the Superior Court upon appeal from the
allowance of the bank's claim by the Probate Court; and, as
we have seen, the parties united in the request that the case be
reserved for the advice of the Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut, and the latter court upon full consideration advised
the disallowance of all and every part of the bank's claim. To
that advice the Superior Court, as it was compelled to do by
the laws of Connecticut, conformed in its final adjudication of
the bank's claim. The bank then turned to the Federal court,
as if nothing had been adjudicated in the courts of Connecticut,
and sought a judgment in support of the same claim that had
been rejected by the state court in the case between it and the
trustee of the estate of Mrs. Mitchell.
We are of opinion that the bank was concluded by the judgment in the state court. In the recent case of Soutlkern Pacific
Railroad Co. v. United States, 168 U. S. 1, 48, we said, after an
extended examination of the adjudged cases, that "a right, question or fact distinctly put in issue and directly determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction, as a ground of recovery, cannot
be disputed in a subsequent suit between the same parties or
their privies; and even if the second suit is for a different cause
of action, the right, question or fact once so determined must,
as between the same parties or their privies, be taken as conclusively established, so long as the judgment in the first suit
remains unmodified. This general rule is demanded by the very
object for which civil courts have been established, which is to
secure the peace and repose of society by the settlement of matters capable of judicial determination. Its enforcement is essential to the maintenance of social order ; for the aid of judicial
tribunals would not be invoked for the vindication of rights of
persons and property, if, as between parties and their privies,
conclusiveness did not attend the judgments of such tribunals in
respect of all matters properly put in issue and actually determined by them." The authorities cited in the margin illustrate
the rule.'
1 Hopkins v. Lee, 6 Wheat. 109, 113; Smith v. Kernochen, 7 How. 198, 216;

MITCHELL v. FIRST NAT. BANK OF CHICAGO.

481

Opinion of the Court.

It is said that the question here presented was one of general
jurisprudence involving the rights of citizens of different States,
and that the Circuit Court was not bound to accept the views
of the state court but was at liberty, indeed under a duty, to
follow its own independent judgment as to the legal rights of
the parties. _Burge8s v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20. If it were true
that the question was in whole or in part one of general law,
the thing adjudged by the state court when properly brought
to the attention of the Circuit Court would still be conclusive
between the same parties or their privies. Whatever may be
the nature of a question presented for judicial determinationwhether depending on Federal, general or local law-if it be
embraced by the issues made, its determination by a court having jurisdiction of the parties and of the subject-matter binds
the parties and their privies so long as the judgment remains
unmodified or unreversed.
It is also said that after this suit was brought in the Federal
court the defendant made a voluntary assignment in insolvency
under the statutes of Connecticut; that a master was appointed
who took possession of all of the property assigned for the
benefit of creditors; that commissioners were appointed to receive and adjust claims on her estate; and that it was necessary
for the bank to present its claims to the commissioners or be
forever barred from sharing in the assets of such estate. Therefore it is contended that the bank's appearance in the State
court was compulsory, and that such appearance, although followed by an adverse final judgment in the state court, did not
operate as a surrender of its right to thereafter proceed to final
judgment in the Federal court in respect of the same matter.
These suggestions are without force. We do not suppose that
the bank acquired any lien upon the property of Mrs. Mitchell
Thompson v. Roberts, 24 How. 233, 240; Washington, Alexandria & Georgetown Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles, 24 How. 333, 340, 341, 343; Russell v.
Place, 94 U. S. 606, 608; Cromwell v. Sac County, 94 U. S. 351; Campbell v.
Rankin, 99 U. S. 261; Lumber Co. v. Buchtel, 101 U. S. 638; Bissellv. Spring
Valley Township, 124 U. S. 225, 230; Johnson Co. v. Wharton, 152 U. S. 252;
Last Chance Mining Co. v. Tyler Mining Co., 157 U. S. 683, 691; Forsyth v.
Hammond, 166 U. S. 506, 518; New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S.
371, 396.

voL. cLxxx-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court,

merely by bringing its suit in the Federal court, or that the bringing of that suit prevented her from making such an assignment
of her property for the benefit of creditors as the laws of the
State of which she was a citizen permitted. It may be that
the bank could not have shared in the particular estate assigned
and in the custody of the trustee Freeman without presenting
its claim to the commissioners. Still, if the bank had not appeared in the state court nothing that could have been done
by the tribunal administering the assigned estate would have
relieved Mrs. Mitchell altogether from any obligation to the
bank which she had legally incurred by having signed the
guaranty of February 20, 1891. The bank could have kept
out of the state court and proceeded to a final judgment in
the Federal court taking its chances to enforce the collection
of such judgment. Instead of doing that it presented its claim
to the commissioners and invoked the judgment of the highest
court of Connecticut upon the question of the liability of Mrs.
Mitchell notwithstanding her coverture at the time she signed
the writing in question. Its appearance in the state court was
not, in any legal sense, a compulsory one, but was made in its
own interest for the purpose of obtaining a share of the proceeds of certain property assigned for the benefit of creditors.
It united with the trustee in having the case reserved for the
advice of the Supreme Court of Errors upon the question
whether the coverture of Mrs. Mitchell constituted a defence
against its claim; knowing, as it must be conclusively presumed it did know, that such advice when given would under
the laws of Connecticut absolutely control the final action of
the Superior Court. Having failed in its effort to have the
state court adjudge that Mrs. Mitchell was liable on the writing in suit notwithstanding her coverture at the time of signing it, the bank cannot be permitted to relitigate that question
in disregard of the final judgment against it and seek a judgment in another court which, if rendered in its favor, could rest
only upon grounds which the state court had held, as between
it and the trustee of Mrs. Mitchell's estate, could not, in law,
be sustained. Although it does not appear that Mrs. Mitchell
was, in form, a party to the proceedings in the state court, she

MITCHELL v. FIRST NAT. BANK OF CHICAGO.

483

Opinion of the Court.

was in privity with the trustee who held her estate for the benefit of creditors. It was admitted at the bar that a judgment
in that court in favor of the bank would have concluded the
question of her liability. If the writing in suit was binding
upon her, notwithstanding her coverture when signing it, then
the bank was a creditor entitled to its proportionate part of
the proceeds of the estate to be administered for creditors.
When, therefore, the state court adjudged that the coverture
of Mrs. Mitchell protected her against liability for any claim
based upon that writing, and that the bank was not entitled,
in virtue of its provisions, to be regarded as a creditor of Mrs.
Mitchell, there was a judicial determination by a tribunal of
competent jurisdiction of the material question involved in
this case, and consequently the bank could not, in a suit in
another court against Mrs. Mitchell, reopen that question. The
Circuit Court had before it, by agreement of the parties, a copy
of the record of the proceedings in the state courts; and upon
the evidence furnished by that record the question was distinctly
presented whether those proceedings in connection with the defendant's plea of coverture constituted a defence against the
plaintiff's cause of action based upon the writing of February 20, 1891.
In our opinion, for the reasons we have given, the Circuit
Court properly adjudged that the decision of the state court
should control the rights of the parties in this case, and therefore that the law was for the defendant.
The judgment of the Circuit Co utrt of Appeals must be reversed, and the judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

