OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

BIRD v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE DIS-

TRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 278. Argued January 21, 1901.-Decided February 25, 1901.
Bird was indicted for murder. The killing was admitted, but it was claimed
to have been done in self-defence. At the trial a government witness
testified "that in the month of August, when the defendant, in company
with the deceased Hurlin, R. L. Patterson, Naomi Strong and witness,
were going up the Yukon River in a steam launch, towing a barge loaded
with their provisions, Hurlin was steering; that the defendant was very
disagreeable to all the other persons; that when they would run into a
sand bar he would curse them; be would say: 'The Dutch sons of bitches
don't know where to run it.' On one occasion they were getting wood
on the bank of the river, and Bird got out and wanted to hit Patterson. Witness didn't remember exactly what was said, but defendant called
Patterson a 'son of a bitch,' and told him he would ' hammer the devil
out of him,' and witness and the others would not let them fight. And
if anything would go wrong, he, defendant, would not curse in front of
the witness, and the others' faces, but defendant would be disagreeable
all the way along, and would make things very disagreeable."
This evidence was excepted to and the court held that its only doubt was whether
the evidence, though improperly admitted, was of sufficient importance to
call for a reversal of the judgment, but it sustained the exception. Afterwards the Government, to maintain the issues on its part, offered the following testimony of the witness Scheffler: Thatin the latter part of March,
1899, after Patterson had been carried to Anvik, Bird made a trip up the
river and came back with a man by the name of Smith; that Smith left
and the next day after that Bird was very disagreeable and tried to pick
a fight with the woman, Naomi Strong; he acted very funny, you had to
watch him and be careful. He got awful good after that and everything
was just so. It was " Charles this," and " Naomi this." To which testimony defendant excepted, and the exception was sustained.
The court at the request of the Government instructed the jury that" if they
believe from the evidence beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant
Bird, on the 27th day of September, 1898, at a point on the Yukon River
about two miles below the coal mine known as Camp Dewey, and about 85
miles above Anvik, and within the District of Alaska, shot and killed one
J. H. Hurlin, and that said killing was malicious, premeditated and willful, and that said killing was not in the necessary defence of the defendants's life or to prevent the infliction upon him of great bodily harm, then
it is your duty to find the defendant guilty as charged in the indictment."
)Heldthat this was substantial error,

BIRD v. UNITED STA'I'ES
Opinion of the Court.

AT a term of the United States District Court in and for the
District of Alaska, Homer Bird, the plaintiff in error, was tried
on a charge of having murdered one J. 1-. Hurlin on the 27th
day of September, A. D. 1898. On December 6, 1899, the jury
found the defendant guilty as charged in the indictment, and
on December 13, 1899, a motion for a new trial having been
overruled, a sentence of death by hanging on February 9, A. P.
1900, was pronounced. A bill of exceptions was settled and
signed by the trial judge on February 8, 1900, and a writ of
error from the Supreme Court of the United States was allowed. The evidence contained in the bill of exceptions shows
that a party of five persons, composed of Homer Bird, J. 11.
Hurlin, Robert L. Patterson, Charles Scheffler and Naomi
Strong, sailed up the Yukon River, in the latter part of July,
1898, on an adventure in search of gold. They traveled on a

small steam launch, towing a scow laden with an outfit of clothes
and provisions sufficient to last them about two years. In the
latter part of September, 1898, they reached a point on the river
about 600 miles from St. Michaels, at the mouth of the Yukon,
when they determined to go into winter quarters, and there began the construction of a cabin on the banks of the stream.
On September 27, 1898, in a quarrel that had arisen about a
partition of the supplies, Hurlin was shot and killed by Bird.
At the trial in December, 1899, there were three witnesses who
had been present at the time of the homicide, Scheffier, Strong
and Bird, the accused. As the fact of the killing of Hurlin by
Bird was not denied, the trial turned on the question whether
the killing was malicious and willful or was in self-defence.
Xr. L. T. Xchener for plaintiff in error.
.r.

Assistant Attorney General Beck for defendants in

error.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAs delivered the opinion of the court.
The assignments of error are twenty-five in number, but of

these we think it sufficient to consider only the tenth, the fourteenth and twenty-third.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

The homicide, as alleged in the indictment, occurred on September 27, 1898, at a point on the Yukon River about eightyfive miles above Anvik, and about two miles below a coal mine
known as Fort Dewey.
At the trial the Government called as a witness for the prosecution one Charles Scheffler, who testified, among other things"That in the month of August, when the defendant, in company with the deceased, Hurlin, R. J. Patterson, Naomi Strong
and witness, were going up the Yukon River in a steam launch,
towing a barge loaded with their provisions, IHurlin was steering; that the defendant was very disagreeable to all the other
persons; that when they would run into a sand bar, he would
curse them; he would say 'the Dutch sons of bitches don't
know where to run it.' On one occasion they were getting
wood on the bank of the river, and Bird got out and wanted
to hit Patterson. Witness didn't remember exactly what was
said, but defendant called Patterson a 'son of a bitch,' and told
him he would 'hammer the devil out of him,' and witness and
the others would not let them fight. And if anything would
go wrong he, defendant, would not curse in front of witness
and the others' faces, but defendant would be disagreeable all
the way along, and would make things very disagreeable."
To this testimony the defendant, by his counsel, objected "as
immaterial and irrelevant, and too remote from the time the
offence is charged to have been committed ;" but this objection
was by the court overruled, and said testimony permitted to go
to the jury; to which ruling of the court he then and there excepted. This testimony, the objection and the ruling are set
forth in the bill of exceptions, and form the subject of the tenth
assignment of error.
As it was not denied that HIurlin died immediately from a
wound intentionally inflicted by the accused, the issue to be
determined by the jury was whether the accused was actuated
by a malicious motive or acted in self-defence.
As the testimony in this issue was conflicting, or, rather the
defendant's evidence not yet having been given, as it might
well have been anticipated that the testimony would be conflicting, it seems to have been the theory of the prosecution

BIRD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

that the evidence in question in the tenth assignment tended to
show such a state of enmity on the part of the accused towards
the deceased as to warrant the jury in finding that the act of
the accused in shooting the deceased was the result of a preexisting unfriendly feeling.
The general rule on the subject of permitting testimony to
be given of matters not alleged is that nothing shall be given
in evidence which does not directly tend to the proof or disproof of the matter in issue. And it was said by Mr. Best in
the ninety-second section of "Principles of Evidence," that
whether a given fact, bearing indirectly on a matter in issue,
should be received as circumstantial, or rejected as conjectural
evidence, is often a question of extreme difficulty.
In the proof of intention it is not always necessary that the
evidence should apply directly to the particular act with the
commission of which the party is charged; for the unlawful
intent in the particular case may well be inferred from a similar
intent, proved to have existed in other transactions done before
or after that time. Thus, upon the trial of a person for maliciously shooting another, the question being whether it was
done by accident or design, evidence was admitted to prove
that the prisoner intentionally shot at the prosecutor at another time, about a quarter of an hour distant from the shooting charged in the indictment.
So, also, in cases of homicide, evidence of former hostility
and menaces on the part of the prisoner against the deceased
are admissible in proof of malice. 3 Greenleaf, sec. 15, Redfield's edition.
But in the case of Farrerv. State, 2 Ohio St. 54, it was held,
upon full consideration, that on an indictment charging the
prisoner with poisoning A, in December, 1851, it is error to permit evidence in chief to show that she poisoned B in the month
of August previous.
So, in Commonwealth v. -Horton,2 Gray, 354, it was held by
the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts that, under an
indictment charging one act of adultery at a particular time
and place, evidence of other acts of a similar character at other
times and places is inadmissible, the court saying:

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

"It is a universal rule, in the trial of criminal cases, that
nothing shall be given in evidence which does not directly tend
to the proof or the disproof of the matter in issue. The prosecuting officer is not, therefore, allowed to give evidence of
facts tending to prove a similar, but distinct offence, for the
purpose of raising an inference or presumption that the accused
committed the particular act with which he is charged."
But even if it be conceded that prior conduct of the accused may be put in evidence in order to show that he had
feelings of enmity towards the deceased, we are clear that the
testimony was wrongfully admitted in the present case, because
the time of the incident testified to, more than a month before
the homicide, was too remote, and because the incident itself
did not tend to prove any feeling of enmity on the part of Bird
to the deceased, such as to warrant the jury in inferring that
the subsequent homicide was malicious and premeditated. The
particular violence threatened was not against the deceased,
but against another member of the party; and the vulgar language attributed to the accused was of a character not unusual
among coarse men engaged in such an adventure.
The only doubt we feel is whether the evidence, though improperly admitted, was of sufficient importance to call for a
reversal of the judgment. However, we cannot say that the
testimony did not suffice to turn the scale against the prisoner.
And we are the more inclined to sustain this exception, because
the error was immediately followed by another and similar one,
appearing in the fourteenth assignment of error.
The bill of exceptions discloses that, over objection, Scheffier
was permitted to testify as follows:
"That in the latter part of March, 1899, after Patterson had
been carried to Anvik, Bird made a trip up the river and came
back with a man named Smith; that Smith left, and the next
day after that Bird was very disagreeable and tried to pick a
fight with the woman Naomi Strong; he acted very funny.
You had to watch him and be careful. He got awful good after
that, and everything was just so. It was 'Charles this' and
'Naomi that.' "
The matters so testified to took place six months after the

BIRD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

alleged murder, and would seem to have no bearing, direct or
remote, upon the guilt of the accused, but still may have tended
to persuade the jury that Bird was a dangerous man and likely
to kill any one who excited his anger.
We think there was substantial error in the first paragraph
of the instructions given the jury by the court at the request
of the Government, and which was as follows:
"The court instructs the jury, if they believe from the evidence beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant Homer
Bird, on the 27th day of September, 1898, at a point on the
Yukon River, about two miles below the coal mine known as
Camp Dewey and about 85 miles above Anvik and within the
District of Alaska, shot and killed one J. I-. Hurlin, and that
said killing was malicious, premeditated and willful, and that
said killing was not in the necessary defence of the defendant's
life or to prevent the infliction upon him of great bodily harm,
then it is your duty to find the defendant guilty as charged in
the indictment."
The bill of exceptions shows that to " this instruction the defendant then and there excepted for the reason that the same
is erroneous because not qualified by the further charge that if
the defendant believed, and had reason to believe, that the killing was necessary for the defence of his life or to prevent the
infliction upon him of great bodily harm, then he was not
guilty."
It is well settled that the defendant has a right to a full statement of the law from the court, and that a neglect to give such
full statement, when the jury consequently fall into error, is sufficient reason for reversal. The numnerous decisions to this effect are cited in Wharton on Criminal Law, vol. 3, sec. 3162,
7th ed. The chief object contemplated in the charge of the
judge is to explain the law of the case, to point out the essentials to be proved on the one side and the other, and to bring
into view the relations of the particular evidence adduced to
the particular issues involved.
It has sometimes been said that if the judge omits something
and is not asked to supply the defect, the party who remained
voluntarily silent cannot complain. But such a principle can,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

not apply to the present case, because the judge's attention was
directly called by the Government's request to the question of
self-defence, and because the defect in that request was then
and there pointed out by the defendant's counsel in their exception. The question involved in that instruction was a fundamental one in the case; indeed, it may be said that the defendant's sole defence rested upon it. The defendant, as shown in
the bill of exceptions, had testified to his own belief that his
life was in danger, and to the facts that led him so to believe;
but by the instruction given the jury were left to pass upon
the vital question without reference to the defendant's evidence.
Beard v. United States, 158 U. S. 550, 554, 559.
As the trial judge allowed and signed a bill of exceptions to
his instruction in this behalf, it cannot be fairly presumed that
the error was healed by any modification or correction made
in some other and undisclosed part of his charge.
Thejudgment qf the DistrictCourt of the United Statesfor the
District of Alaska is reversed, and the cause is remanded
to that court with directions to set aside the verdict and
award a new trial.

GARDNER v. BONESTELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 143.

Argued January 17, 18, 1901.- Decided February 25, 1901.

It is a well settled rule of law that the power to make and correct surveys
of the public lands belongs exclusively to the political department of the
Government, and that the action of that department, within the scope of
its authority, is unassailable in the courts except by a direct proceeding.
The determination of the Land Department, in a case within its jurisdiction,
of questions of fact depending on conflicting testimony is conclusive, and
cannot be challenged by subsequent proceedings in the courts.
In proceedings in this court to review the action of state courts, this court
does not enter into a consideration of questions of fact.

IN 1834 Juan Reed applied to and received from the Mexican

