OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

213 U. S.

had been left a mile from the station, where by no reasonable
hypothesis passengers would attempt to get off or on the train,
there could be no doubt that the railroad wQuld not be responsible in such a case. There was a wooden platform by the track
at the station 100 feet more or less in length. The truck was
left at the very end of this platform, with the greater part off
it. The train was at rest, so that no part of it from which passengers might be expected to get off or on was near the truck.
It was, of course, dark at the point where the truck was, but
no one could foresee that passengers intending to leave or enter
the train would be at that point. No amount of human foresight which could reasonably be exacted as a duty could anticipate that a passenger, after the train had started, would run
a distance of from 75 to 100 feet with the purpose of boarding a
train moving with increasing rapidity, much less that a person
would take a helpless infant and while thus running attempt to
place it on the train. We are of the opinion that the railroad
was not bound to foresee and guard against such extraordinary
conduct, and that its failure to do so was not negligence. For
these reasons the judgment must be
Reversed.

DAVIDSON BROS. MARBLE COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES ON THE RELATION OF GIBSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA..
No. 78.

Argued January 15, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

U. S. FidelityCo. v. Struthers Wells Co., 209 U. S. 306, followed to effect
that the act of February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33 Stat. 811, amending the
act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, is prospective and does
not control actions based on rights of material-men already accrued,
but that such actions are controlled by the act of. 1894.
As the act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, does not specify in
which Federal court the action of a material-man claiming rights

DAVIDSON MARBLE CO. v. GIBSON.
213 U. S.

Statement .of the Case.

thereunder must be brought, the question of jurisdiction is settled by
the general statutory provisions relating thereto; and, under the act

of March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24 Stat. 552, as corrected by the act of
August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433, a suit cannot be maintained in
a district where the defendants do not reside.
.The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is fixed by- statute, and a rule of
court inconsistent with the statute is invalid.
A defendant, having a statutory right to appear specially and object to

the jurisdiction and the right to appeal to this court if the objection
be overruled, cannot be compelled by a rule of court to waive the objection and appear generally; and Rule 22 of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Ninth Circuit requiring a general appearance
if the Circuit Court overrule such objection is inconsistent with ยง 918,
Rev. Stat., and therefore invalid.
THIs case comes here from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of California, on the single
question of the jurisdiction of that court.
The United States, on the relation of Murray Gibson, on
November 20, 1906, brought this action against Davidson Bros.
Marble Company, a corporation organized under the laws of
the State of Illinois, and therefore, for jurisdictional purposes,
a citizen of that State, and Samuel A. Tohnan and John A.
Tolman, citizens and residents of that State. Neither of the
defendants was alleged to be an inhabitant of the district. The
complaint set forth in substance the following cause of action:
The Davidson Company on October 10, 1901, agreed, in writing, with the United States to construct a public building in
San Francisco, in the Northern District of California. On
October 18, 1901, the Davidson Company, as principal, and the
two individual defendants as sureties, executed a bond running
to the United States, conditioned that the Davidson Company
should fulfill its contract with the United States and make payment to all persons supplying the Davidson Company with
labor or materials in the prosecution of the work.. Under a
contract made on July 25, 1902, Gibson furnished to the Davidson Company certain labor and materials used in the prosecution of the work, for which a large sum is due 'and unpaid. No

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

213 U. S.

suit was brought by the United States within six months after
the completion of Davidson Company's contract with the
United States, and thereafter Gibson applied to the Treasury
Department and furnished an affidavit that he had supplied
labor and materials for which payment had not been made.
Whereupon, the department furnished him with a certified
copy of the contract, and subsequently this action was begun.
A writ of summons was issued to the defendants and served
upon them personally in Illinois. Notice of the pendency of the
suit was also given by publication. On January 9, 1907, the
defendants appeared specially and filed a demurrer and a motion to quash service and to dismiss, which were, respectively,
as follows:
Demurrer.
"The defendants . . . demur to the complaint of the
plaintiff herein upon the following grounds:
"First.. That the court has no jurisdiction of the defendants
or either of them.
"Second. That the plaintiff is not a resident or citizen of the
Northern District of California in the Ninth Judicial Circuit or
of the State of California.
"Third. That the defendants are not nor is either of them a
resident or citizen of the Northern District of California in the
Ninth Judicial Circuit or of the State of California.
"Fourth. That at the time of the commencement of this action the plaintiff, Murray Gibson, trading as John Gibson, was
and now is a citizen and resident of the State of Pennsylvania,
and that at the time of the commencement of this action the
defendants were, and each of them was, and now is, a citizen
and resident of the State of Illinois.
"Fifth. That this court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the action.
"Sixth. That this court has no jurisdiction of the controversy alleged in the complaint.
"Wherefore the 'defendants pray to be hence dismissed with
their cost.".

DAVIDSON MARBLE CO. v. GIBSON.
2i3 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Motion to quash.
"The defendants above named and each of them hereby appear specially in the above-entitled cause for the purpose only
of moving the said court to quash and set aside the 'service of
the summons in the said cause and to dismiss the said action
upon the ground that the said court has no jurisdiction of the
persons of the defendants, and upon the further ground that
the said court has no jurisdiction of the person of the plaintiff,
and upon the further ground that neither the plaintiff nor the
defendants or any or either of them are citizens of the State of
California or residents of the Northern District of California in
the Ninth Judicial Circuit, and upon the further ground that the
said court has no jurisdiction of the controversy at issue. The
said motion will be based upon the complaint of the plaintiff,
and all subsequent proceedings and the return of service of
said summons herein."
The motion to quash was denied and the demurrer was overruled. The defendants declined to plead further, a judgment
was entered against them for the amount claimed in the complaint, and thereupon the defendants by writ of error brought
the question of jurisdiction directly to this court.
The law in force at the time the contract with the United
States, the bond given to the United States and the contract
with Gibson were made, -is the act of August 13, 1894, 28 Stat.
278, c. 280, which is as follows:
"That hereafter any person or persons entering into a formal
contract with the United States for the construction of any
public building, or the prosecution and completion of any public work, or for repairs upon any public building or public work,
shall be required before commencing such work to execute the
usual penal bond, with good and sufficient sureties with the
additional obligation that such contractor or contractors shall
promptly make payments to all persons supplying him or them
-labor and materials in the prosecution of the work provided
for in such contract; and any person or persons making application therefor, and furnishing affidavit to the department un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiffs #n Error.

213 U. S.

der the direction of which said work is being, or has been,
prosecuted, that labor or materials for the prosecution of such
work has been supplied by him or them, and payment for which
has not been made, shall be furnished with a certified copy of
said contract and bond, upon which said person or persons supplying such labor and materials shall have a right of action,
and shall be authorized to bring suit in the name of the United
States for his or their use and benefit against said contractor
and sureties and to prosecute the same to final judgment and
execution: Prvided,That such action and its prosecutions shall
involve the United States in no expense.
"SEC. 2. Provided that in such case the court in which such
action is brought is authorized to re9 ,.ire proper security for
costs in case judgment is for the defendant."
Mr. Edwin M. Ashcraft for plaintiffs in error:
The United States is the real plaintiff and not a nominal
party. The act of February 24, 1905, is not retroactive and the
act, of August 13, 1894, governs in this case. United States
Fidelity Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 306.
This action should have been properly brought in the Northern District of Illinois, the district of which plaintiffs in error
are inhabitants. Section 1, act March 1, 1887, 24 Stat. 373;
McCormick Harvesting Machine Co. v. Walthers, 134 U. S.41;
Re Keasbey & Mattison Co., 160 U. S; 221; Re Wisner, 203 U. S.
449.
Plaintiffs in error have not voluntarily submitted to the
jurisdiction of the court or waived their privilege of being sued
in the district of which they are inhabitants. Western Loan
Co. v. .Butte & Boston Mining Co., 210 U. S.368; St. Louis &
San FranciscoR. R. Co. v. McBride' 141 U. S.127; Harkness v.
Hyde, 98 U. S.476-479; Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146
U. S.202.
The Circuit Couft of the Northern District of California has
misconstrued rule 22 of its rules of court and if it has not, said
rule 22 is unreasonable and invalid. Rule 93, 3 Rose's Code of

DAVIDSON MARBLE CO.
213 U. S.

v.

GIBSON..

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Fed. Procedure, p. 2293; Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146
U. S. 202.
Mr. Robert T. Devlin and Mr. Henry P. Brown, for defendant
in error, submitted:
Under rule 22 of the Circuit Court of the United States in
which this action was commenced and prosecuted, the special
appearance entered by the defendants was converted, by their
failure to file the stipulation required, into a general appear-.
ance, and they have therefore waived any defect in the jurisdiction. See Mahr v. Union Pac. R. R. Co., 140 Fed. Rep..
921.
The statute herein in question declares that the suit must
be brought in the Northern District of California. It can, under
the statute, be brought nowhere else. Hence, by the very
language of the statute, .the Circuit Court of the Northern District of California, and no other court, has jurisdiction. Stats.
at Large, 1905, 811, 812; American Surety Co. v. Lawrenceville
Cement Co., 96 Fed. Rep. 25, 26.
The Circuit Court for the Northern District of California hag
exclusive jurisdiction of this action, and the defendants may be'
served wherever found, or it may be that no personal service
is requisite.
Construction of statutes should be sensible; general terms.,
should be so limited as not to lead to injustice, oppression or
absurd consequences. It will always be presumed that thelegislature intended exceptions to its language, which would
avoid, results of this character. The reason of the law in such
cases should prevail over its letter. United States v. Kirby,
7 Wall. 486; In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 667; Low Ow Bow v.
United-States, 144 U. S. 59; Railroad v. Husen, 95 U. S. 472.
In case of doubt, a literal construction leading to an absurdity
must be rejected in favor of a more liberal, which will effectuate
the object intended.. Wilson v. Mason, 1 Cr. 101; Doolittle v.
Bryan, 14 How. 567; Kennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 506. Statutes
should be construed so as to relieve the State frem imputation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

bad faith. Red Rock v. Henry, 106 U. S. 604; Bate Rbfrigerating
Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 38.
Where a particular construction of a statute will work injustice or occasion great inconvenience, it is to be avoided in
favor of another and more reasonable 'construction if p-ossible.
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.77.
Statutes should be construed with a view to the original intent and meaning of the makers; and such construction should
be put upon them as best to answer that intention, which may
be collected from the cause or necessity of making the act, or
from foreign circumstances,. and, when discovered, ought to be
followed, although such construction may seem to be contrary
to the letter of the statute. Thompson v. State, 20 Alabama,
54; Chesapeake & 0. Canal Co. v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 4 Gill
& J. 1; Baring v. Erdman, Fed.. Cas. No. 981.
In interpreting statutes it is the duty of the courts at all
times to make such construction as shall suppress the mischief
and advance the remedy. Parkinson'v. .Sate, 14 Maryland,
N4.
MR.JUSTIcE. MooDY, after mqaking the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The decision of the court below proceeded upon the erroneous
assumption that the act of. February 24, 1905, 33 Stat. 811,
F. 778, was retrospectiv6. That act amended the act of 1894 in
everal important particulars, which it is not necessary to state,
and provided specifically that a suit upon the bond should be
brought by one furnishing labor.and materials, in the name of
the United States, in the Circuit Court of the United States in
the district where the contract with the United States was to be
performed, and not elsewhere. As this suit was brought after
the passage of the amending act, it was brought in the only district where it could be maintained, if the amending act were
retrospective. But it is not retrospective. U. S. Fidelity
Co. v. Struthers Wells Co., 209 U. S.306. In this case the con-

DAVIDSON MARBLE CO. v. GIBSON.
213 U. S.

17

Opinion of the Court.

tract with and the bond to the Unite4 States, and the contract
under which Gibson furnished labor and materials, all antedate
the passage of the amending act, and the rights of the parties,
therefore, must be determined under the act of 1894. An act
passed on the same day, August 13, 1894, 28 Stat. 279, c. 280,
authorized incorporated surety companies to become sureties
on bonds running to the United States, and the fifth section
fixed the district in which a suit upon the bond against the.
surety company should be brought. But nothing was said as
to the district where the sureties were individuals, as was the
case here. While the act of 1894 authorized a person supplying
labor and materials to bring suit upon the bond in the name of
the United States against the contractor and sureties, it did
*not specify the court in which the suit should be brought, and
the omission was not supplied until the enactment of the law of
1905, which, as has been pointed out, is not applicable to this
case. The jurisdiction, therefore, of the courts of the United
States must be sought in the general provisidns of the statutes
relating to that subject. It has been decided that under this
statute, for jurisdictional purposes, the United States is the real
party plaintiff. U. S. Fidelity Co. v. Kenyon, 204 U. S. 349.
We have here, then, a suit in which the United States is plaintiff and three citizens and residents of the State of Illinois are
defendants. Obviously, this suit is not a controversy between
citizens of different States, and the rules governing where' such
diversity of citizenship exists have no application. The case is
governed by that part of the act of March 3, 1887, as corrected
by the act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866, which provides that no civil suit shall be brought before any of the Circuit Courts of the United States "against any person by any
original process or proceeding in any other district than that
whereof he is an inhabitant." McCormick v. Walthers, 134
U. S. 41; In re Keasbey d&Mattison Co., Petitioner, 160 U. S.
221; United States v. Southern Pacific R. Co., 49 Fed. Rep. 297,
opinion by Mr. Justice Harlan. It follows, therefore, that the
court below was without jurisdiction of this cause, aid, as the
VOL. cCXI-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

defendants have -taken no action whatever in response to the
summons, except to appear specially and object to the jurisdiction, it cannot possibly be said that the objection to the jurisdiction has been waived.
The learned Judge of the Circuit Court, however, based his
decision upon rule 22 of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Ninth Judicial Circuit, which is as follows:
"Any party may, without leave of court, appear specially in
any action at law or suit in equity for any purpose for which
leave to appear could be granted by the court, by stating in the
paper which he serves and files that the appearance is special
and that if the purpose for which such special appearance is
made shall not be sanctioned or sustained by the court, he will
appear generally in the case within the time allowed therefor
by law, or by the order of court or by stipulation of the parties.
If such statement be not made as above provided, the appearance shall be deemed and treated as a general appearance."
The defendants appeared specially and objected to the jurisdiction, but did not state in the appearance that "if the purpose
for which such special appearance is made shall not be sanctioned or sustained by the court," they "will appear generally
in the case." Therefore, if the rule is held to be valid, such an
appearance must be deemed a general appearance. And so it
was decided in the court below.
The rule, as construed and applied in this case, is inconsistent
with the laws of the United States, and-therefore invalid. Rev.
Stat., ยง 918. A party who is sued in the wrong district, and does
not waive the objection, may of right appear specially and object.to the jurisdiction of the court, and, the decision being
against his objection, may of right bring the question directly
to this court. The rule substantially impairs his right to appeal
to this court, a right which is conferred by statute. 26 Stat.
826, c. 517, March 3, 1891. It says to him, you may appear
specially and object to-the jurisdiction, only upon the condition
that you' will abide bythe decision of a single judge; if that is
against you, you must waive your objection and enter a general

DAVIDSON MARBLE CO. v. GIBSON.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

appearance; if you do not agree to do this, your special appearance will be deemed to be general. We think it was beyond
the power of the Circuit Court to make and enforce a rule which
imposes upon defendants such conditions, and transforms an
objection to the jurisdiction into a waiver of the objectionitself. The jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts is fixed by statute.
In certain cases a defendant may waive an objection to the
jurisdiction over his person. But he cannot be compelled to
waive the objection if he chooses seasonably to insist upon it,
and any rule of court which seeks to compel a waiver is unauthorized by law and invalid. So it has been held that, under
the act which requires the practice in the courts of the United
States to conform as near as may be to the practice of the courts
of the States in which they are held, state statutes which give a
special appearance to challenge the jurisdiction, the force and
effect of a general appearance must not be followed by the
courts of the United States. Southern PacificCompany v. Den.ton, 146 U. S. 202; Mexican Central Railway v. Pinkney, 149
U. S. 194; Galveston &c. Railway v. Gonzales, 151 U. S. 496.
The reasoning in these cases is pertinent to the case at bar.
To sum up, the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
California had no jurisdiction to entertain this suit against
these defendants, who are not inhabitants of that district, but,
on the contrary, inhabitants of the State of Illinois. The defendants appeared specially, as they had a right to do, solely for
the purpose of objecting to the jurisdiction. They were not
bound to agree to submit their objection to the final decision of
the judge of the Circuit Court, and the rule of court which
treated the special appearance, without such an agreement, as
a general appearance, was invalid.
For these reasons the judgment is reversed and the case remanded to the Circuit Court, with instructions to dismiss the
action for want of jurisdiction, and
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

dissents.

