DEL. & HUD. CO. v. ALBANY & SUSQUEHANNA. 435
213 U. S.

Syllabus.

reason of the fraud committed by defendant the plaintiff was
thereby injured and the defendant became liable. In legal
effect her consent was obtained by the fraud.
We have not overlooked the objections made in regard to the
form of the judgment in the Court of First Instance, but are
of opinion that such objections are not of a material nature,

and we are disposed to follow the course pursued by that court*
in this case.
Other objections made by the defendant's counsel we have examined, but do not regard them as important. We therefore
reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court, dismissing the
complaint, and affirm that of the Court of First Instahce, and
It is so ordered.

DELAWARE •AND HUDSON COMPANY: v. ALBANY
AND SUSQUEHANNA RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 416. Argued February 23, 24, 1909'.-Decided May 3, 1909.
Equity rule No. 94, which is intended to secure the Federal courts from
imposition upon their jurisdiction, recognizes the right of the corporate directory to corporate control, and expresses primarily the conditions which must precede the right of the stockholders to protect
the corporation in cases where the directory is derelict; but the requirements of the rule may be dispensed with where they do not apply
by reason of antagonism between the directory and the corporate
interest.
Equity rule No. 94 is intended to have a practical application and it does
not apply where the corporate interests can cnly be protected by a
suit, which, if successful, would be detrimental to all the directors in
other capacities.
Where, as in this case, stockholders of a lessor corporation sued, for its
benefit, the lessee corporation, the directors of the two corporations
being almost identical and the lessee corporation also owning, or

436

4OCTOBER TERM,-4008.
Argument for the Delaware & Hudson Company.

213 U. S.

blilding the voting power, of sufficient stock of the lessee corporation
to control a stockholders' meeting, the fact that the stockholders
bringing the suit made no demand for relief upon the board of directors
nor any effort to obtain relief at a stockholders' meeting does not prevent them from maintaining the bill.
Quwre, and not decided, whether stockholders have power to compel
directors to institute suits to which the latter are opposed.
THE facts, and the questions certified, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. James M. Beck, with whom Mr. Alfred Opdyke was on
the brief, for the Delaware & Hudson Company:
Before a shareholder "is permitted in his own name to institute and conduct a litigation which usually belongs to 'the
corporation, he should show to the satisfaction of the court
that he has exhausted all the means within his reach to obtain
within the corporation itself the redress of his grievances or action in conformity to his wishes. He must make an earnest,
not a simulated, effort with the managing body of the corporation to induce remedial action on their part, and this must
be made apparent to the court." Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S.
450; Foss v. Harbottle, 2 Hare, 461; Macdougall v. Gardiner, 1
Chancery Div. 13.
The stockholder of a corporation cannot on his individual
responsibility commence an action for the benefit of the corporation against another corporation, without first applying to
the managing body of his corporation to do so, and the fact
that a majority of such managing body are also officers, directors, or employ~s of the corporation against which the suit
is sought to be brought will not, in the absence of fraud, excuse
the failure of the stockholder to make such application.
The only question which seems open to discussion is whether
the mere fact that a majority of such board were also "officers,
directors or employ6s" of the company sought to be sued, and
that some of them had only a nominal stock interest in the
Susquehanna Company, in itself and in the absence of any

DEL. & HUD. CO. v. ALBANY & SUSQUEHANNA.
213 U. S.

437

Argument for Delaware & Hudson Company.

circumstances of fraud, so conclusively demonstrates the futility of such application as to excuse it. This conclusion could
be justified only on the assumption that there is a conclusive
presumption of law that the directors of a corporation will
not institute a suit against another corporation, with which a
majority are identified either as "officersi directors or employds."
The vice of the appellees' position is that they gratuitously
assume that the directors of the Susquehanna Company, men.
of recognized standing and probity in the business world,
would have been faithless to the trust reposed in them, and
this solely for the reason that a majority were, as officers, directors or employds, also identified with the Delaware Company.
Certainly the presumption that directors will fully discharge
their duties to all the stockholders should not be overborne
at least until they have first, refused, upon demand, to bring
suit under conditions that will fully safeguard the interests
of the stockholders, and until such demand and refusal the
ordinary presumption of fidelity to a trust, as anounced ,by
this court, still remains. Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 450;
Detroit v. Dean, 106 U. S. 537; Dimpfell v. Ohio Ry. C., 110
U. S. 209; Quincy v. Steel, 120 U. S. 241; Taylor v. Holmes,
127 U. S. 489.
This rule is laid down in Corbus v. Alaska Co., 187 U. S. 455,
and also in Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 331; Greenwood *.
Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13; Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust
Co., 157 U. S. 429. Doctor v. Harrington, 196 U. S. 579., relied
upon by appellees, was exceptional and bears no resemblance
to this case. And Chicago v. Mills, 204 U. S. 321, and Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S. 123, 143, can also be distinguished.
Rule 94 itself assumes that the directors are presumed to
act honestly and according to their best judgment for the interests of all, and this presumption cannot be overborne by
the mere assertion of futility or by the pleader's license in the
use of adjectives or adverbs. The fraud charged and proven

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Albany & Susquehanna R. R. Co.

213 U. S.

must be actual and not constructive. "Epithets do not make
out fraud." Kent V.Canal Co., 144 U. S. 91; Fogg v. Blair, 139
U. S. 127.
In the following cases in state courts tne bill was held not to
be maintainable. Wolf v. R. R. Co., 195 Pa. St. 91, 95; Siegman v. Maloney, 65 N. J. Eq. 372; Brewer v. Boston Theatre, 104
Massachusetts, 378; Dunphy v. Traveller Assn., 146 Massachusetts, 495; O'Connor v. Virginia, 184 N. Y. 46, 53.
If the complainants were excused under the facts certified
from making any preliminary demand upon the directors, they
nevertheless must show, in order to maintain their suit, that
they could not have secured corporate action by an appeal to
the stockholders of the Susquehanna Company. Hawes v.
Oakland, 104 U. S.450; Foss v. Harbottle, 2 Hare, 461; Hunting.
don v. Palmer, 104 U. S.482; Quincy v. Steel, 120 U. S.241;
Chicago v. Mills, 204 U. S. 321; Doctor v. Harrington, 196
U. S.579.
Mr. E. Parmalee Prentice, with whom Mr. George Welwood
Murray and Mr. Charles P. Howland were on the brief, for The
Albany and Susquehanna Railroad Company et al:
Complainants are entitled under the facts stated by the
Circuit Court of Appeals to sue as stockholders in the Susquehanna Company asserting rights due that corporation. They
were not required before instituting this suit to demand relief
from the directors of the Susquehanna Company. The present
case is not within the purpose of Equity Rule 94 which is to
prevent the maintenance of suits in Federal courts by collusion
between complainants and the defendant corporation whose
rights they assert. Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 450; Citizens'
Trust Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co., 205 U. S.46, 47; Doctor v.
Harrington,196 U. S.579, 588; Chicago v. Mills, 204 U. S.321;
Young v. Mining Co., 71 Fed. Rep. 810; Eldred v. American
&c. Co., 99 Fed. Rep. 168.
The certificate shows that this suit is not ccllusive.
The present case is not within the requirements of I quity

DEL. & HUD. CO. v. ALBANY & SUSQUEHANNA. 439
213 U. S.

Airgument for Albany & Susquehanna R. R Co.

Rule 94, as to demand upon directors. The bill shows under
oath that directors were hostile, that demand upon them would
be idle and nugatory.
Equity will not permit double directors, by contracts made
with themselves in other capacities, to bind shareholders or
the corporation. Wardell v. RailroadCo., 103 V. S. 651; TwinLick Oil Co. v. Marbury, 91 U. S. 587.
A court will not entertain litigation in which both sides are
controlled by one dominus litis. South Spring Gold Co. v.
Amador Gold Co., 145 U. S. 300; Mills v. Green, 159 U. S. 651,
654; East Tennessee &c. Co. v. Telegraph Co., 125 U. S. 695;
Hatfield v. King, 184 U. S. 162. In fact parties who bring such
litigation without disclosing the relationship of parties are
guilty of punishable contempt of court. Lord v. Veazie, 8 How.
251; Little v. Bowers, 134 U. S. 547, 557; Hatfield v. King, 184
U. S. 162.
When directors are under adverse control stockholders may
sue without demand for relief from a hostile board. Citizens'
Trst Co. v. Illinois Central Railroad, 205 U. S. 46; Doctor v.
Harrington,196 U. S. 579; Corbus v. Gold Mining Co., 187 U. S.
455; Heath v. Erie Railway Co., 8 Blatch. 347, 409; Bill
v. Telegraph Co., 16 Fed. Rep. 14, 19; Columbia Dredging Co. v.
Washed Bar Sand Dredging Co., 136 Fed. Rep. 710; Bigelow v.
Calumet & Hecla Mining Co., 155 Fed. Rep. 869; Dickinson
v. Traction Co., 114 Fed. Rep. 232; Eldred v. Americdn &c.
Co., 99 Fed. Rep. 168; Berwind v. CanadianPac. Ry. Co., 98
Fed. Rep. 158; Ball v. Rutland R. Co., 93 Fed. Rep. 513; Weir
v. Bay State Gas Co., 91 Fed. Rep. 940; Rogers v. Nashville &c.
Ry. Co., 91 Fed. Rep. 299; De Neufville v. RailroadCo., 81 Fed.
Rep. 10.
Complainants were not required before instituting this suit
to demand relief at a meeting of Susquehanna stockholders.
See Brewer v. Boston Theatre, 104 Massachusetts, 378, 387.
Demand on stockholders was not necessary in this case because under the Susquehanna charter stockholders could not
grant relief. Laws, New York, 1850, Ch. 140.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Albany & Susquehanna R. R. Co.

213 U. S.

In all litigation involving the action of the corporation they
(the directors) are its representatives in court. Stockholders
cannot control or interfere with their management. Railway
Co. v..Alling, 99 U. S. 463, 472; Pullman Co. v. MissouriPacific
R. Co., 115 U. S. .587; Beveridge v. New York &c. R. Co., 112
N. Y. 1, 21,. 23; Robinson v. Smith, 3 Paige, Ch. 222; McCullough' y. Moss, 5 Denio, 567; Conro v. Port Henry Iron Co., 12
Barb. 27; Morawetz on Corps., 2d ed., §§ 283, 510; Cook on
Corps., 5th ed., §§684, 750.
Even if stockholders could by resolution require directors to
institute litigation against the Delaware Company, they could
not oust directors from office, before expiration of their terms.
Laws, New York, Act of 1850, ch. 140, § 5.
No-court would entertain a suit against the Delaware Company conducted by the Delaware administration of the Susquehanna Company' South Spring Gold Co. v. Amador Gold Co.,
145 U. S.300; Mills v. Green, 159 U. S. 651; East Tennessee
&c. Co. v. Telegraph Co., 125 U. S.695.
Suits are regularly maintained in Federal courts without
demand upon stockholders for a resolution directing litigation.
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock
Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79; Dinsmore v. Southern Express Co., 183
U. S. 115; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.466; Pollock v. Farmers'
&c. Trust Co., 157 U. S.429; Greenwood v. Freight Co., 105 U. S.
13; Schultz v. Highland Gold Mines Co., 158 Fed. Rep. 337;
Perkins v. Northern Pacific Co., 155 Fed. Rep. 445; Monmouth
Investing Co. v. Means, 151 Fed. Rep. 159; Weir v. Bay State
Gas Co., 91 Fed. Rep. 940; Ball v. Rutland Railroad Co., 93
Fed. Rep. 513; Dinsmore v. Southern Express Co., 92 Fed. Rep.
714.
,,No case was ever disriissed from a Federal court for want of
an.'application to stockholders for a resolution directing litigati6n on behalf of the corporation.
There was nothing to submit to stockholders.
When a stockholders' vote makes a voidable act valid or
void, it acts upon something which directors have done. In

DEL. & HUD. CO. v. ALBANY & SUSQUEHANNA. 441213 U. S.

Argument for Albany & Susquehanna R. R. Co.

this case directors have done nothing and stockholders cannot
control their course.
Stockholders cannot, by anything short of a unanimous vote,
authorize or ratify gifts of corporate property. Brewer v. Boston Theatre, 104 Massachusetts, 378; Jackson v. Ludeling, 21
Wall. 616; Ervin v. Oregon R. & N. Co., 27 Fed. Rep. 625,
631; Mumford v. Ecuador Development Co., 111 Fed. Rep. 639;
Menier v. Telegraph Works, L. R. 9 Ch. App. 350; Gamble v.
Queens County Water Co., 123 N. Y. 91; Farmers' &c. Trust Co.
v. New York &c. R. Co., 150 N. Y. 410.
Complainants desiring institution of a law-suit were not required by Rule 94 to ask for election of a new board of directors.
When this suit was instituted the Delaware Company controlled the Susquehanna stock vote.
Stockholders whose corporation is in adverse control are
entitled to protection by injunction.
Complainants are entitled to maintain this bill by reason of
their direct relations to both defendant corporations. Rule 94
does not apply to this case.
The Delaware Company has not only agreed with the lessor
corporation by covenant in the lease to pay rent for the Susquehanna property, but by the guarantee on stock certificates has
also agreed with individual stockholders that payment of this
rent shall be made by dividing the corporate incoime as provided in the lease.
The Delaware Company has, therefore, in respect to corporate rights of the Susquehanna Company, entered into privity
of contract with every Susquehanna stockholder, concerning
division of the entire rent. Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 450.
Stockholders' suits cannot be at law, for the guarantees are
part of the entire covenant to pay the entire rent arising from a
single demise of corporate property.
An action to divide corporate income among stockholders
must be brought in equity,-otherwise the lessee's right of offset would be defeated and unequal division of income made
among stockholders. Barr v. New York &c. Co., 96 N. Y. 444.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

The certificate of the court is as follows:
"This cause comes here upon appeal from a final decree of the
Circuit Court, Southern District of New York, which directs
that the defendant Delaware and Hudson Company (hereinafter called the Delaware Company) pay to the defendant the
Albany and Susquehanna Railroad Company (hereinafter called
the Susquehanna Company) the amount of $1,107,923.24.
"The case was fully argued and submitted on briefs. It
thereupon developed that there was a question presented
whether the bill could be maintained under the ninety-fourth
equity rule. That question is a preliminary one, it, has been
held to be jurisdictional in character (City of Chicago v. Mills,
204 U. S. 321; Doctor v. Harrington, 196 U. S.579), and this
court desires the instruction of the Supreme Co'dut for its proper
decision.
Statement of Facts.
"The facts upon which the question arises are as follows:
"The, defendant corporations are both citizens of the State
of. New York; the complainants are citizens of the States of
-Connecticut and, Rhode Island. The bill was brought to obtain an accounting for various surus of money which it was alleged became due at intervals during a series of years from the
Delaware Company to the Susquehanna Company as rental or
in the nature of rental under a lease made in 1870. For the
convenience of -all a copy of the pleadings is hereto annexed,
marked Exhibit 'A,' which may be referred to for a more detailed statement of the cause of action. The bill does not 'set
forth with particularity the efforts of the plaintiffs to secure
such action as they desire on the part of the managing. directors or trustees.' Nor did the proofs show any such efforts.
Nor does the bill set forth any efforts to secure 'such action on
the pert of the shareholders.' Nor did the proofs show any
such efforts. Nor did the bill set forth, or the proofs show, 'the

DEL. & HUD. CO. v. ALBANY & SUSQUEHANNA.

443

Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

causes of their failure to obtain such action-' otherwise than is
hereinafter
disclosed.
"The complaint
was filed on June 12, 1906. The Susquehanna Company was organized under the act of April 2, 1850,
which provides that 'there shill be a board of thirteen directors

.

.

.

to manage its affairs,' and for many years be-

fore this suit was brought a majority of the board of directors
of the Susquehanna Company consisted of persons who were
officers, directors or employ~s of the Delaware Company. At
the time this suit was instituted, the directors and officers of
the Susquehanna Company, the dates of their election as such,
and their relations to the Delaware Company with dates of
election were as shown on the following statement:
Names of directors of Susquehanna
Company and dates of election as
directors and officers.

Robert M. Olyphant, 1878

Position in Delaware and Hudson
Company and dates.

Director since 1872
President from 1884 to 1903
Chairman of the Board since
1903
Director since 1901
George I. Wilber, 1883
David Wilcox, 1894 (Vice Pres- General counsel 1894 to 1903
ident, May 9, 1906)
Director since 1899
President since 1903
R. Suydam Grant, 1901
Director since 1886
Director since 1902
Charles A. Peabody, 1902
William S. Opdyke, 1903
General counsel since 1903
Director since 1905
Abel I. Culver, 1903
A Vice President since 1903
Charles A. Walker, 1892
Treasurer 1892
Robert Olyphant, 1887 (Presi- Son of Robert M. Olyphaiit
dent since 1889)
William L. M. Phelps, 1873 Secretary of the Albany and
(Secretary since 1870)
Susquehanna
Company,
elected by the board of directors.
Robert C. Pruyn, 1890
Nominees of the Delaware Company as stated in the DelaJampes H. Manning, 1890
ware Company's answer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

21 .4 U. S.

"Of these, Robert M. Olyphant, R. Suydam Grant, Charles
A. Peabody, William S. Opdyke Abel I. Culver and Robert C.
Pruyn at the time this suit was begun did not own or hold in
their own right any shares of stock in the Susquehanna Company, but shares of stock of that company owned by the Delaware Company were transferred to each of them on the books of
the Susquehanna Company by the Delaware Company for the
purpose of qualifying them as such directors. Charles A.
Walker owned five shares of Susquehanna stock from 1901 to
1906; it does not appear that he owned any stock in the Susquehanna Company during the year 1906.
"So far as appears from anything shown in this record none
of the directors or officers of the Delaware Company ever, before or after the bringing of this suit, treated the claim therein
set forth otherwise than as one of doubtful, validity the payment of which was to be resisted.
"On June 12, 1906, and for thirty years prior thereto, the
capital stock of the Susquehanna Company had been fixed at
and limited to 35,000 shares. Of this capital stock on June 12th,
1906, the Delaware eofiipany owned 4500 shares and its directors or officers owned or controlled 4340 shares; the complainants owned 1312 shares and a so-called Protective Committee who from and after December, 1905, had been opposing
the administration of the Delaware Company upon the questions involved in this bill controlled 6688 shares. The entire
35,000 shares were held by 546 different persons, of whom 423
owned 50 shares or less, and of whom 383 resided in the State
of New York.
"An annual meeting of the Susquehanna Company was held
subsequent to the beginning of this suit, on October 16, 1906.
At that meeting the nominees of the protective committee were
elected, receiving 15,501 ballots, the nominees of the former
management receiving 15,441 ballots. About two weeks before
such annual meeting the Susquehanna Company being then
controlled by the directorate above named, filed a demurrer to
the bill which, is hereto annexed as Exhibit 'B.' Copies of

DEL. & HUD. CO. v. ALBANY & SUSQUEHANNA. 445
213 U. B.

Opinion of the Court.

such demurrer were sent by stockholders opposed to the existing
control to all stockholders and thereafter and before the meeting proxies for several thousand shares were received by the
persons who voted for the nominees then elected.
Questions Certified.
"Upon the facts above set forth the questions of law concerning which this court desires the instruction of the Supreme
Court are:
"First. 'Does the fact that before institution of this suit
complainants made no demand for relief upon the Board of
Directors of the Susquehanna Company prevent them from
maintaining this bill?'
"Second. 'Does the fact that before institution of this suit
c6mplainants made no effort to obtain relief at a stockholders'
meeting prevent them from maintaining this bill?"'
The questions in connection with the ninety-fourth equity
rule present the issue in the case. The: rule is as follows:
"94. Every bill brought by one or more stockholders in a
corporation against the corporation and other parties founded
upon the rights which may properly be asserted by the corporation must be verified by oath, and must contain an allegation
that the complainazit was a shareholder at the time of the
transaction of which he complains, or that his share had devolved upon him since by operation of law, and that the suit is
not a 'collusive one to confer on a court of the United States
jurisdiction of a case of which it would not have otherwise
cognizance. It must also set forth with particularitythe efforts of
the plaintiff to secure such action, as he desires on the part of the
managing directors or trustees, and, if necessary, of the shareholders, and the causes of his failure to obtain such action."
Do the facts show a compliance with the rule, or rather that
part of it which we have expressed in italics? The other parts
of it'are not involved.
It is the contention of appellant that the averments in the
bill as exhibited in the certificate do not satisfy either the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

language of the rule or its substance. The argument is that
(1) a shareholder, as a condition of his suit, must show that he
has exhausted all the means within his reach to obtain within
the corporation itself the redress of his grievances, that his
efforts must be earnest, not simulated, and this must be made
apparent to the court; (2) his failure to apply to the managing
body of the corporation will not, in the absence of fraud, be
excused by the fact that such managing body are also officers,
directors or employ~s of the corporation against which the
suit is brought; (3) if the facts of'this case excused from a
preliminary demand upon the directors, the complainants
were required to show "that they could not have secured
appropriate action by an appeal to the stockholders of the
Susquehanna Company." The appellees counter these contentions by asserting that (1) the case is not within the requirements of Rule 94. "The bill shows, under oath," it is said,
"that the directors were hostile, and that demands upon them
would be 'idle and nugatory.'

.

.

."

(2) Complainants

(appellees here) were not required to appeal to the stockholders
of the Susquehanna Company because (a) the stockholders,
under the charter of the company, could not grant relief;
(b) even if such power existed, the stockholders "could not
oust directors from office before expiration of their terms."
And it is further contended that at the time the suit was instituted "the Delaware Company controlled the stock vote of
the Susquehanna Company."
These opposing contentions present a not unusual case where
the rule or principle of law is clear enough, but its application to
a particular case is not so clear, and there is a contest of plausible constructions-between which it is not always easy to decide.
The purpose of Rule No. 94 hardly needs explanation. It is
intended to secure the Federal courts from imposition upon
their jurisdiction and recognizes the right of the corporate
directory, to corporate control; in other words, to make, the
corporation paramount, even when its rights are to be protected or sought through litigation. Cases in this court have

DEL. & HUD. CO. v. ALBANY & SUSQUEHANNA.
213 U. S.

447.

Opinion of the Court.

indicated such right. But the directory may-be derelict and the!
interests of stockholders put in peril, and a case hence arises in
which the right of protecting the corporation accrues to them.
Rule 94 expresses primarily the conditions which must precede
the exercise of such right, but emergencies may arise in which
the antagonism between the directory and the corporate interest may be unmistakable, and the requirements of the rule
may be dispensed with, or, it is more accurate to say, do not
apply. There are cases which illustrate these contingencies.
As a typical case of the first kind, that is, which enforces the
doctrine that the rights of the corporation must be asserted
through the corporation, Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 450, is
cited. In that case Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 331, was declared to be the leading case on the subject in this country, and,
examining the latter case, it was said that it did not establish,
nor was it intended to establish, a doctrine different in any
material respect from that found in the other American cases
and the English cases. And the doctrine was said to be that
to enable a stockholder in a corporation to sustain in a court of
equity a suit founded on a right of action existing in the corporation itself, and in which the corporation itself is the appropriate plaintiff, there must exist as a foundation for the suit
some action or threatened action of the managing board of directors which is beyond their authority a fraudulent transaction completed or contemplated which will result in serious
injury to the corporation or stockholders; where the board of
directors, or a majority.of them, are acting for their 9wn interest in a manner destructive of the corporation itself or of the
rights of other stockholders; or where a majority of the stockholders themselves are oppressively and illegally pursuing a
course inimical to the corporation or to the rights of the other
stockholders. The court expressed the possibility that other
cases might arise, but said "the foregoing may be regarded as
an outline of the principles which govern this class of cases."
Determined by the principles enumerated, the court affirmed
a decree sustaining a demurrer to a bill by a stockholder of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

Contra Costa Waterworks Company, filed in behalf of himself
and other stockholders against the company, its directors and.
the city of Oakland, to enjoin the city from taking, and the
directors from permitting it to take, Water from the works of
the company without compensation. The bill alleged a request
of the directors to take proceedings, and that they declined to
do so. The bill also alleged injury to the corporation, diminution of dividends of the complainant and other stockholders,
and a decrease of the value of their stock. . Appellant adduces,
as repeating and illustrating the doctrine of Hawes v. Oakland,
the following cases: Dimpfell v. Ohio & Mississippi Ry. Co.,
110 U. S. 209; Quincy v. Steel, 120 U. S. 241; Taylor v. Holmes,
127 U. S. 489; Corbus v. Alaska Treadwell Gold Mining Co., 187
U. S. 455. The latter case is quoted by appellant as puttihig
unmistakable emphasis on Rule 94, and that the facts of the
case at -bar do not satisfy its requirements. The object of the
suit was to enjoin the board of directors of the corporation from
paying a license tax 'levied upon the corporation under the provisions of an act of Congress. Corbus, the complainant in the
suit, was a stockholder of the corporation, and alleged, as the
reason of the suit by him, that he was unable to request the
directors of the company to refuse to pay the tax or apply for
the license required by reason of their great distance from him,
but that he had made such request.of the officers of the company residing in Alaska, and that they had refused to comply
with the request. Of this allegation'the court said that it
showed no compliance with Rule 94, and that complainant
simply relied on the distance of the directors from where he
resided as an excuse for not applying to them. "We are of
opinion," it was said, "that the excuse is not bufficient. He
should at least have shown some effort. If he had made an
effort and obtained no satisfactory result, either by reason of
the distance of the directors or by their dilatoriness or unwillingness to act, a different case would have been presented, but
to do nothing is not sufficient."
A case sustaining the second proposition which we have

DEL. & HUD. CO. v. ALBANY & SUSQUEHANNA. 449
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mentioned, to wit, where the circumstances'take the cases out
of the rule, is Doctor v. Harrington,196 U. S. 579. The suit was
brought by Doctor and others as stockholders of a corporation
called the Sal Sayles Company to set aside a judgment obtained
by the Harringtons against that company. The bill alleged
that the suit was not collusive; that complainants were unable
to obtain redress from the company or "at the hands" of its
stockholders. It further alleged that the board of directors of
the corporation was "under the absolute control and domination of the 'defendant, John J. Harrington, and that said Harrington, by reason of having the possession of a majority of the
capital stock of said corporation," likewise controlled "'the
action of the stockholders." It was further alleged that he
refused to give any information with regard thereto, and declined to redress the wrongs of which complaint was made, or
give complainants any opportunity to lay before the board of
directors or the stockholders of the company the facts set forth.
. It will be observed, therefore, that there was no compliance
with the requirements of Rule 94, as expressed in its letter. The
efforts that were made to secure the action of the managing
directors or trustees were not "set forth with particularity."
Nothing was alleged but the domination of John J. Harrington
and his control of the directors. What he did, in what way he
exerted control, was not alleged. In other words, the bill
seemed to show a case not of compliance with the requirements
of Rule 94, but circumstances which excused from such compliance.
Coming to consider the effect of those allegations, we said
that Rule 94 contemplates that there may be, and provides for,
a suit by the stockholder in a corporation founded on rights
which may be properly asserted by the corporation. And we
further said that "the ultimate interest of the corporation made
.defendant may be the same as that of the stockholder made
Dlaintiff, but the cnrporation may be under a control antagonistic to him and made to act in any way detrimental to his
interest. In other words, his interests and the interests of the
VOL. ccxm-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

corporation may be subservient to some illegal purpose." And
we decided that these principles were satisfied by the allegations
of the bill and that such antagonism existed between the complainants in the suit and the directors of the corporation that
they would "suffer irremediable loss if not permitted to sue."
In other words, the complainants were in such a situation by
reason of the power which Harrington possessed over those who
managed the corporation-directors and stockholders-that
appeals to them for action would have been futile. Prior cases
were considered, including Dodge v. Woolsey and Hawes v. Oakland, and the conclusion reached was pronounced to be in accordance with their doctrine.
Do the facts in the case at bar present the same situation
that was passed on in Doctor v. Harrington? The certificate
shows the following facts: The complaint was filed June 12,
1906. The suit was brought to obtain an accounting for various
sums of money, which it was alleged became due at intervals
during a series of years from the Delaware Company to the
Susquehanna Company as rental, or in the nature of rental,
under a lease made in 1870. The Susquehanna Company was
organized in 1850, and, under the law, its board of directors
consisted of thirteen members, a majority of whom for many
years before this suit was brought were also "officers, directors
or employds of the Delaware Company." Indeed, they served
as its president, vice president, treasurer, secretary, directors
and general counsel--officers of dominating influence, it must
be said. It appears that certain of the persons occupying those
offices did not at the time the suit was brought own or hold in
their own right any shares of stock in the Susquehanna Company, but shares of stock in that company owned by the Delaware Company were transferred to each of them on the books
of the former company by the latter company for the purpose
of quq1ifying them as directors., The number of shares of the
capital stock of the Susquehanna Company and how held or
owned, and the attitude of the owners thereof to the Delaware
Company, appear in the certificate and need not be repeated.

DEL. & HUD. CO. v. ALBANY & SUSQUEHANNA. 451
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The certificate recites the following: "So far as appears from
anything shown in the record none of the directors or officers
of the Delaware Company ever before or after the bringing of
this suit treated the claim therein set forth otherwise than as
one of doubtful validity, the payment of which was to be resisted."
The situation was unique. The company whose interest it
was to assert the right to payment and to demand it was under
the control or could be influenced by the company whose interest it was to deny indebtedness and resist payment. And
though there are allegations in the bill of contrary import, the
good faith of the directors need not be questioned. They might
notwithstanding be firm in their views-firm to resist appeals
against them. Their views seemed to persist through many
years. .At any rate, a situation was presented fully as formidable to the interest of stockholders in the Susquehanna Company
as that presented in the Harringtoncase.. And it may be well
doubted whether, if the directors of the Susquehanna Company,
so being directors of the Delaware Company, and who either
from an apathy that endured through many years could discern no right in that company to assert or through conviction
of the absence of right, were not the best agents to begin or
conduct a litigation of such right. It was certainly natural
enough that a stockholder should seek more earnest representatives and consider that the directors "occupied," to use the
language of Dodge v. Woolsey, "antagonistic grounds in respect
to the controversy" as to him. The attitude of the directors
need not be sinister. It may be sincere. It was so in Chicago
v. Mills, 204 U. S. 321, and Ex parts Young, 209 U. S. 123, and
other cases. In this case it was certainly determined. It continued until after this suit was brought. Both the Delaware
Company and the Susquehanna Company, then under "the
administration of the Delaware Company," to quote from the
Circuit Court of Appeals, demurred to the bill.
But it is contended that efforts should have been made and
alleged to move the corporation to action through a stock-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 T.S.

holders' meeting. In this contention there is again similarity
to the Harrington case. It was there alleged that Harrington:
controlled the action of the stockholders "by reason of having
possession of a majority" of the capital stock of the corporation. The control in the case at bar, therefore, may not have
been as direct as in Doctor v. Harrington,but it was practically
efficient.. The stock of the Susquehanna Company consisted
of 35,000 shares, of which the Delaware Company and its directors and officers held 8,840. The complainant and a so-,
called protective committee, a committee which the certificate
states "from and after December, 1905, had been opposing the
administration of the Delaware Company upon the questions
involved in this bill," controlled 8,000 shares. The certificate
also states that the "entire 35,000 shares were held by 546
different persons, of whom 423 owned 50 shares or less, and of
whom 383 resided in New York." The proposition then is, that
notwithstanding the power of 8,840 shares, held by the managers of both c6rporations, against 8,000 held by complainants
and the protective committee, complainants were required by
Rule 94 to engage and organize all other stockholders, or
enough of them to direct or change the corporate management;
in other words, struggle for the control of the corporation with
an adverse board of directors. And such struggle, appellant
contends, "could not be regarded as presumptively futile,"' as
there would be an appeal to "the self-interest of the remaining
stockholders," and, it is pointed out, that the certificate recites
that control through the stockholders was subsequently obtained. But it was obtained after the suit was begun and the
antagonism of the directors was more clearly exhibited. - The
circumstances of this case preclude therefore an acceptance
of. appellant's proposition. Rule 94 is intended to have practical operation, and to have that it must, as to its requirements,
be given such play as to fit the conditions of different cases.
Therefore, considering that this case by reason of its facts falls
within the principle of Doctor v. Harrington,we do not review
the cases cited by appellee, wherein, it is contended, suits were

MANSON v. WILLIAMS.
213 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

justified by demand on the directors alone, nor consider whether
stockholders have the power to compel directors to institute
suits to which the directors are opposed.
We answer both questions certified in the negative.

MANSON v. WILLIAMS, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF
HUDSON CLOTHING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST

CIRCUIT.
No. 169.

Argued April 20, 21, 1909.-Decided May 3, 1909.

Where both the District Court and Circuit Court of Appeals have found
as a fact that a partnership existed and owned the stock; while this
court may, it will not, as a general rule, disturb the findings.
While an adjudication putting two'or more persons into bankruptcy
as partners is, for the purpose of administering the property, good as
against all the world, it does not establish the existence of the partnership except as against parties entitled to be heard, and that question is not res judicata,as against one who had denied being a partner
and had not been heard.
It will be presumed that one who furnished capital for business expects
gain therefrom, and if he is not a creditor receiving interest, his gain
must come from profits as a.partner.
In this case, there being evidence to support the finding of the two lower
courts that a partnership existed by an implied understanding between two brothers pending the formation of a corporation, this
court affirms the judgment notwithstanding that it might not necessarily have reached the same conclusion had the case been here tried
in the first instance.
153 Fed. Rep. 525, affirmed.
TE facts are'stated in the opinion.
Mr. John W. Manson, with whom Mr. Harry R. Coolidge was

on the brief, for appellants.

