AMERICAN BANANA CO. v. UNITED FRUIT CO. 347
213 U. S.

Syllabus.

the qualifications imposed upon it, were correct. They simply
follow what has been understood to be the law for many years.
Clough v. Wing, 2 Arizona, 371.
The right to use water is not confined to riparian proprietors.
Gutierres v. Albuquerque Land and IrrigationCo., 188 U. S. 545,
556; Coffin v.. Left Hand Ditch Co., 6 Colorado, 443, 449, 450;
Willey v. Decker, 73 Pac. Rep. 210, 220. Such a limitation
would substitute accident for a rule based upon economic considerations, and an effort, adequate or not, to get the greatest
use from all available land. Whether there are any limits of
distance is a question not arising in this case.
A final objection urged is that the plaintiff's land is taken
without compensation. It would seem that this is merely
technical in this case. There does not appear to have been any
discussion of the point below, and it is probable that the water
is the only thing that has substantial value or really is cared for.
But the plaintiff is authorized to have his damages assessed if
he desires by ch. 55, § 4 (now Rev. Stat., § 3202), as we have
mentioned. We think that it would be unjust to disturb the
decree on this ground, although in other circumstances the objection might be grave.

Decree affirmed.

-4

AMERICAN BANANA COMPANY v. \ UNITED FRUIT
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 686.

Argued April 12, 13, 1909.-Decided April 26, 1909.

While a country may treat some relations between its own citizens as
governed by its own law in regions subject to no sovereign, like the
high seas, or to no law recognized as adequate, the general rule is that
the character of an act as lawful or unlawful must be determined
wholly by the law of the country where it is done.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

213 U. S.

Law is a statement of the circumstances in which the public force will
be brought to bear upon men through the courts; but the word commonly is confined to such prophecies or threats when addressed to
persons living within the power of the courts.
A statute will, as a general rule, be construed as intended to be confined
in its operation and effect to the territorial limits within the jurisdiction of the lawmaker, and words of universal scope will be construed
as meaning only those subject to the legislation.
The prohibitions of the Shernian Anti-Trust Law of July 2, 1890, c. 647,
26 Stat. 209, do not extend to acts done in foreign countries even
though done by citizens of the United States and injuriously affecting
other citizens of the United States.
Sovereignty means that the decree of the sovereign makes law; and foreign courts cannot condemn the influences persuading the sovereign
to make the decree. Rafael v. Verelst, 2 Win. B1. 983, 1055, distinguished.
Acts of soldiers and officials of a foreign government must be taken to
have been done by its order.
A conspiracy in this country to do acts in another jurisdiction does not
draw to itself those acts and make them unlawful if they are permitted
by the local law.
166 Fed. Rep. 261, affirmed.
THE. facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Everett P. Wheeler, with whom Mr. Horace E. Deming
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The Circuit Court should have taken jurisdiction of this action. Section 7 of thd Sherman Act expressly provides for the
bringing of suits like the present one, "in any Circuit Court of the
United States in the district in which the defendant resides or is
found." See also § 2, Art. VI, Const. U. S. The suit at bar is a
civil suit, arising under the laws of the United States and a treaty

made under its authority. It is brought to recover for injuries
done by defendant, and declared unlawful by the Sherman Act.
The Circuit Court is a court of the United States and is bound
to administer the jurisdiction conferred upon it.
No considerations of public policy or comity forbid the courts
of the United States to exercise jurisdiction and decide this
controversy on the merits.

AMERICAN BANANA CO. v. UNITED FRUIT CO. 349
213 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The acts complained of were done in violation of an express
statute of the United States. Costa Rica cannot give immunity
to defendant for this offense, nor can exceptions be read into the
Sherman Act not expressed in the act itself. United States
v. Union Pacific, 91 U. S. 72, 91; French v. Spencer, 21
How. 238; Demarest v. Wynkoop, 3 Johns. Ch. 129, 142; S.-P.
Chamberlain v. The Western TransportationCo., 44 N. Y. 305,
309; Bank of Republic v. City of St. Joseph, 21 Blatch. 436, 439.
Whatever value the principles of comity may have, they
cannot be extended so far as to cloak a violation of the laws of
the nation whose comity is appealed to. The Santissima Trinidad, 7 Wheat. 283, 354; The Bello Corrunes, 6 Wheat. 152,
169; The MariannaFlora, 11 Wheat. 1; The Merino, 9 Wheat.
391, 405; La Jeune Eugenie, 2 Mason, 409; Underhill v. Hernandez, 65 Fed. Rep. 577, affirmed 168 U. S. 250, discussed as
not being in point. See also People v. McLeod, 25 Wend. 483.
The courts of this country can consider and collaterally pass
upon the legality of acts of a foreign nation, in a suit between
its own citizens. Vasse v. Ball, 2 Dall. 270, 275; 3 Kent's Comm.
303, 304; The Santissima Trinidad, 7 Wheat. 283, 351, 354;
The Estrella,4 Wheat. 298; Angle v. Chicago,St. Paul&c. R. Co.,
151 U. S. 119.
The extent of the rule is that a court cannot sit in judgment
on the act of a foreign power where that act is directly drawn
in question in a suit directly against such foreign power, or
against an officer acting within its territory under its commands.
Nabob of Arcot v. East India Co., 4 Brown Ch. 131 (180); The
Duke of Brunswick v. The King -ofHanover, 6 Beav. 1 (affirmed
2 H. of L. 1); Hatch v. Baez, 7 Hun, 596; Rafael v. Vereist, 2
Win. Blackstone, 1055.
The supposed government authority' under which the act is
done is in itself invalid. The Costa Rican officers, in destroying
plaintiffs' property and business, were acting outside the territory of Costa Rica, and were making an usurping inroad on the
territory of an adjoining friendly power. 1 Kent's Comm. 120.
In considering the defense that an act was done under authority

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

213 U. S.

of government, the courts have uniformly held that such authority must be valid or lawful. Suit against an officer for an unlawful act is not a suit against his sovereign. Poindexterv. Greenhow, 114 U. S.270, 290; Osborn v. The Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; Ex
parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 159; Litchfield v. Bond, 186 N. Y.
66; People v. McLeod, 25 Wend. 483.
An injury to the private property of a citizen by an officer
of government is justiciable in the courts of the country of
which he is a citizen, even if it be an act of state. Baird v.
Walker, L. R. (1892) App. Cas. 491, overruling upon this point,
Buron v. Denman, 2 Ex. 167, if susceptible of the interpretation
put upon it by the District Judges. That case, however, is an
authority for plaintiff; and see Feather v. The Queen, 6 Best &
Smith, 257, 296. See also Little v. Barreme, 2 Cranch, 170, 179;
Poindexterv. Greenhow, 114 U S.270; Entick v. Harrington,19
State Trials, 1043; Money v. Leach, 3 Burr. 1742, 1762.
It is never a defense, even to an officer who has committed
a tort, that he has acted on behalf of his government under
circumstances like those in this case. A fortiori it can be no
defense to ihe citizens of the country against whose laws the
tort was committed that it was done through the agency of
such officer. Duke of Brunswick's Case, 2 H. of L. 1; Musgrave
v. Pulido, L. R. 5 App. Cas. 102, 112; 1 Goodnow, Comparative
Administrative Law, 35, 36; Moodaly v. Moreton & East India
Co., 2 Dickens, 652.
Damage sustained by the plaintiff was inflicted in pursuance
of defe dant's illegal combination, and is therefore actionable
under the statute. United States v. Patterson, 55 Fed. Rep.
605; Shawnee Compress Co. v. Anderson, 209 U. S.423.
Defendant cannot complain because it alone is sued. Any
member of such combination is liable for the acts of the combination, or any member of it, done in furtherance thereof.
Atlanta v. ChattanoogaFoundry Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 23; Chicago
Coal Co. v. People, 214 Illinois, 421, 453.
Acts done in pursuance of a combination are none the less
done in pursuance thereof because done by only one member.

AMERICAN BANANA CO. v. UNITED FRUIT CO. 351
213 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

United States v. Standard Oil Co., 152 Fed. Rep. 290; Tobacco Trust Case, 149 Fed. Rep. 823; Cooley on Torts (3d ed.),
213.
The statute applies to acts done in a foreign country. The
objection that the acts complained of were done abroad is entitled to no weight. The parties to the suit are American
citizens. The commerce restrained by defendant's acts was
foreign commerce of the United States. Congress has full power
to legislate in respect to that and has exercised the power in
this statute. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; United States v.
Knight, 156 U. S. 1.
Acts done abroad by citizens of the United States are subject
to its jurisdiction and legislative powers.
The commerce of the United States may by its statutes be
protected from injury by acts done beyond its boundaries.
Both of these powers have been frequently exercised and their
validity is established in both criminal and civil cases. United
States v. Gordon, 5 Blatch. 18; The Slavers (Kate), 2 Wall.
350; United States v. Pirates, 5 Wheat. 184; United States v.
Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407,433; Carib Prince, 170 U. S. 655; The
Silvia, 171 U. S. 462; The Chattahoochee, 173 U. S. 540.
The language of. the Sherman Act is as comprehensive as
that of the Harter Act. It is a rule prescribed by Congress for
interstate and international commerce. It guards such commerce against acts which threaten it, no matter where they are
done, and more especially if they are done by citizens of the
United States. Northern Securities Case, 193 U. S. 337; Thomsen
v. Union Castle Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 251.
This court has uniformly held in suits against common carriers that it would, in determining the validity of contracts made
with them, or their liability for torts committed by them, apply
the American and not the foreign law; and enforce the policy
of American law. Liverpool & G. W. Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co.,
129 U. S. 397.
A- State has the right to attach whatever consequences it
chooses within its own territory to acts of its subjects. wherever

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

213 U. S.

those acts may be done. Hall on Int. Law (5th ed.), 202; 1
Oppenheim, Int. Law, 195; Wharton, Crim. Law, § 271.
Mr. Henry W. Taft and Mr. Moorfield Storey, with whom
Mr. Walker B. Spencer and Mr. J. L. Thorndie were on the
brief, for defendant in error:
The plaintiff cannot recover for any injury caused to its property or business by the acts of Costa Rica.
The allegations of the complaint make it clear that the plantation, railroad and goods of the plaintiff were seized by the
officers and soldiers of Costa Rica, and that their action in
making this seizure has been approved and possession of the
seized property has since been retained by the government of
that state acting in the exercise of its de facto sovereignty over
the territory in which the seizure was made.
The acts complained of were the acts of Costa Rica, and the
damage claimed was caused by those acts. Whether they were
originally ordered or only approved and ratified is immaterial.
Buron v. Denman, 2 Exch. 167; Underhill v. Hernandez, 168
U. S. 250, 252; Webb's Pollock on Torts, pp. 132, 137.
The status and territorial jurisdiction of foreign states, their
rights, powers and obligations, the rights and obligations of a
citizen of the United -States arising out of relations with a
foreign government, and, conversely, the rights and obligations
of a foreign state in dealing-with a citizen of the United States,
are necessarily political questions, which, under the Constitution of this government, are confided exclusively to the executive branch of the government, and with them the judicial
branch has no concern. Kennett v. Chambers, 14 How. 38, 51;
Williams v. Suffolk Insurance Co., 13 Peters, 415; United States
v. Holliday, 3 Wall. '419; Duke of Brunswick v. King of
Hanover, 2 H. L. C. 1 (same case below, 6 Beavan, 1; 13 L. J.
Ch. 107); Secretary of State v. Kamachee, 13 Moore, Privy
Council, 22 (same case, English Reports Reprint, Vol. 15, p. 9);
Buron v. Denman (1848), 2 Ex. 167; Feather v. Queen (1865),
6 B. & S. 257; Doss v. Secretary of State, 19 Equity, 509.

AMERICAN BANANA CO. v. UNITED FRUIT CO. 353
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In this case the de facto sovereignty of Costa Rica is recognized by the State Department, and thisrecognition establishes
the fact conclusively in the courts of the United States. It is
immaterial whether Costa Rica had jurisdiction and sovereignty over this territory in dispute, or whether its attempt to
exercise such jurisdiction was by legal right or was an act of
war or aggression against the Republic of Panama. Underhill
v. Hernandez, 168 U. S. at p. 252.
Redress for injuries caused to a citizen of a foreign nation by
another nation through the exercise of de facto powers, even
though maintained by means of force alone, cannot be had in the
ordinary municipal courts of another nation, nor even in the
courts of the offending nation without its consent. It can only
be had in the forum of international relations.
The acts are alleged to have been done entirely in a foreign
country, with which the Sherman Act has nothing to do.
The alleged acts of the defendant in inducing the acts of
Costa Rica had no direct or indirect relation to commerce between Panama and the United States. They were acts committed in Costa Rica. Their tortious character does not alter
the fact that their direct effect was on production and not
on trade. The direct effect of the defendant's acts was to injure production only. United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156
U. S. 1; In re Greene, 52 Fed. Rep. 104; Chesapeake & Ohio
Fuel Co. v. United States, 115 Fed. Rep. 623; Coe v. Errol,
116 U. S. 517; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1;.Dudley v. Briggs,
141 Massachusetts, 582.
MR.JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought to recover threefold damages under
the Act to Protect Trade against Monopolies. July 2, 1890, c.
647, § 7. 26 Stat. 209, 210. The Circuit Court dismissed the
complaint upon motion, as not setting forth a cause of action.
160 Fed. Rep. 184. This judgment was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, 166 Fed. Rep. 261, and the case then was
brought to this court by writ of error.
VOL.- ccxiii-23 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

The allegations of the complaint may be summed up as follows: The plaintiff is an Alabama corporation, organized in
1904. The defendant is a New Jersey corporation, organized
in 1899. Long before the plaintiff was formed, the defendant,
with intent to prevent competition and to control and monopolize the banana trade, bought the property and business of
several of its previous competitors, with provision against their
resuming the trade, made contracts with others, including a
majority of the most important, regulating the quantity to be
purchased and the price to be paid, and acquired a controlling
amount of stock in still others. For the same purpose it organized a selling company, of which it held the stock, that by
agreement sold at fixed prices all the bananas of the combining
parties. By this and other means it did monopolize and restrain
the trade and maintained unreasonable prices. The defendant
being in this ominous attitude, one McConnell in 1903 started
a banana plantation in Panama, then part of the United States
of Colombia, and began to build a railway (which would afford
his only means of export), both in accordance with the laws
of the United States of Colombia. He was notified by the defendant that he must either combine or stop. Two months
later, it is believed at the defendant's instigation, the governor
of Panama recommended to his national government that Costa
Rica be allowed to administer the territory through which the
railroad was to run, and this although that territory had been
awarded to Colombia under an arbitration agreed to by treaty.
The defendant, aid afterwards, in September, the government
of Costa Rica, it is believed by the inducement of the defendant,
interfered with McConnell. In November, 1903, Panama revolted and became an independent republic, declaring its boundary to be that settled by the award. In June, 1904, the plaintiff
bought out McConnell and went on with the work, as it had a
right to do under the laws, of Panama. But in July, Costa
Rican soldiers and officials, instigated by the defendant, seized
a part of the plantation and a cargo of supplies and have held
them ever since, and stopped the construction and operation

AMERICAN BANANA CO. v. UNITED FRUIT CO. 355
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the plantation and railway. In August one Astua, by ex
pare proceedings, got a judgment from a Costa Rican court,
declaring the plantation to be his, although, it is alleged, the
proceedings were not within the jurisdiction of Costa Rica, and
were contrary to its laws and void. Agents of the defendant
then bought the lands from Astua. The plaintiff has tried to
induce the government of Costa Rica to withdraw its soldiers
and also has tried to persuade the United States to interfere, but
has been thwarted in both by the defendant and has failed.
The government of Costa Rica remained in possession down to
the bringing of the suit.
As a result of the defendant's acts the plaintiff has been deprived of the use of the plantation, and the railway, the plantation and supplies have been injured. The defendant also, by
outbidding, has driven purchasers out of the market and has
compelled producers to come to its terms, and it has prevented
the plaintiff from buying for export and sale. This is the substantial damage alleged. There is thrown in a further allegation
that the defendant has "sought to injure" the plaintiff's business by offering positions to its employ~s and by discharging
and threatening to discharge persons in its own employ who
were stockholders of the plaintiff. But no particular point is
made of this. It is contended, however, that;even if the main
argument fails and the defendant is held not to be answerable for
acts depending on the co6peration of the government of Costa
Rica for their effect, a wrongful conspiracy resulting in driving
the plaintiff out of business is-to be 'gathered from the complaint and that it was entitled to go to trial upon that.
It is obvious that, however stated, the plaintiff's case depends on several rather startling propositions. In the first
place the acts causing the damage were done, so far as appears,
outside the jurisdiction of the United States and within that
of other states. It is surprising to hear it argued that they
were governed by the act of Congress.
No doubt in regions subject to no sovereign, like the high
seas, or to no law that civilized countries would recognize ap

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

adequate, such countries may treat some relations between
their citizens as governed by their own law, and keep to some
extent the old notion of personal sovereignty alive. See The
Hamilton, 207 U. S. 398, 403; Hart v. Gumpach, L. R. 4 P. C.
439, 463, 464; British South Africa Co. v. Companhia de Mopambique [1893], A. C. 602. They go further, at times, and
declare that they will punish any one, subject or not, who
shall do certain things, if they can catch him, as in the case of
pirates on the high seas. In cases immediately affecting national interests they may go further still and may make, and,
if they get the chance, execute similar threats as to acts done
within another recognized jurisdiction. *An illustration from
our -statutes is found with regard to criminal correspondence
with foreign governments. Rev. Stat., § 5335. See further
Commonwealth v. Macloon, 101 Massachusetts, 1; The Sussex
Peerage, 11 Cl. & Fin. 85, 146. And the notion that English statutes bind British subjects everywhere has found expression in
modern times and has had some startling applications. Rex v.
Sawyer, 2 C. & K. 101; The Zollverein, Swabey, 96, 98. But
the general and almost universal rule is that the character of an
act as lawful or unlawful must be determined wholly by the
law of the country where the act is done. Slater v. Mexican
National R. R. Co., 194 U. S. i20, 126.' This principle was
carried to an extreme in Milliken v. Pratt, 125 Massachusetts,
374. For another jurisdiction, if it should happen to lay hold of
the actor, to treat him according to its own notions rather than.
those of the place where he did the acts, not only would be unjust, but would be an interference with the authorityr of another
sovereign, contrary to the comity of nations, which the other
state concerned justly might resent. Phillips v. Eyre, L. R. 4
Q. B. 225, 239;'L. R. 6 Q. B. 1, 28; Dicey, Conflict of Laws
(2d ed.), 647. See also Appendix, 724, 726, Note 2, ibid.
Law is a statement of the circumstances in which the public
force will be brought to bear upon men through the courts.
But the word commonly is confined to such prophecies or
threats when addressed to persons living within the power of

AMERICAN BANANA CO. v. UNITED FRUIT CO. 357
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the courts. A threat that depends upon the choice of the party
affected to bring himself within that power hardly would be
called law in the ordinary sense. We do not speak of blockade running by neutrals as unlawful. And the usages of speech
correspond to the limit of the attempts of the lawmaker, except
in extraordinary cases. It is true that domestic corporations
remain always within the power of the domestic law, but in
the present case, at least, there is no ground for distinguishing
between corporations and men.
The foregoing considerations would lead in case of doubt to
a construction of any statute as intended to be confined in its
operation and effect to the territorial limits over which the
lawmaker has general and legitimate power. "All legislation
is primafacie territorial." Ex parte Blain, In re Sawers, 12 Ch.
Div. 522, 528; State v. Carter, 27 N. J. (3 Dutcher) 499; People
v. Merrill, 2 Parker, Crim. Rep. 590,'596. Words having universal scope, such as "Every contract in restraint of trade,"
"Every person who shall monopolize," etc., will be taken as a
matter of course to mean only every one subject to such legislation, not all that the legislator subsequently may be able to
catch. In the case of the present statute the improbabilty of
the United States attempting to make acts done in Panama or
Costa Rica criminal is obvious, yet the law begins by making
criminal the acts for which it gives a right to sue. We think it
entirely plain that what the defendant did in Panama or Costa
Rica is not within the scope of the statute so far as the present
suit is concerned. Other objections of a serious nature are
urged but need not be discussed.
For again, not only were the acts of the defendant in. Panama
or Costa Rica not within the Sherman Act, but they were not
torts by the law of the place and therefore were not torts at all,
however contrary to the ethical and economic postulates of
that. statute. The substance of the complaint is that, the plantation being within the de facto jurisdiction of Costa Rica, that
state took and keeps possession of it by virtue of its sovereign
power. But a seizure by a state is not a thing that can be

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

complained of elsewhere in the courts. Underhillv. Hernzndez,
168 U. S.250. The fact, if it be one, that de jure the estate is
in Panama does not matter in the least; sovereignty is pure
fact. The fact has been recognized by the United States, and
by the implications of the bill is assented to by Panama.
The fundamental reason why persuading a sovereign power
to do this or that cannot be a tort is not that the sovereign
cannot be joined as a defendant or because it must be assumed
to be acting lawfully. The intervention of parties who had a
right knowingly to produce the harmful result between the defendant and the harm has been thought to be a non-conductor
and to bar responsibility, Allen v. Flood [1898], A. C. 1, 121,
151, etc., but it is not clear that this is always true, for instance,
in the case of the privileged repetition of a slander, Elmer v.
Fessenden, 151 Massachusetts, 359, 362, 363, or the malicious
and unjustified persuasion to discharge from employment.
Moran v. Dunphy, 177 Massachusetts, 485, 487. The fundamental reason is that it is a contradiction in terms to say that
within its jurisdiction it is unlawful to persuade a sovereign
power to bring about a result that it declares by its conduct to
be desirable and proper. It does not, and foreign courts cannot, admit that the influences were improper or the results bad.
It makes the persuasion lawful by its own act. The very meaning of sovereignty is that the decree of the sovereign makes law.
See Kawananakoa v. Polyblank, 205 U. S. 349, 353. In the
case of private persons it consistently may assert the freedom
of the immediate parties to an injury and yet declare that certain persuasions addressed to them are wrong. See Angle v.
Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis & Omaha Ry. Co:, 151 U. S.
1, 16-21; Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, 130, 131.
The plaintiff relied a good deal on Rafael v. Verelst, 2 Win.
BI: 983; Ib.1055. But in that case, although the Nabob who
imprisoned the plaintiff was called a sovereign for certain purposes, he was found to be the mere tool of the defendant, an
English Governor. That hardly could be listened to concerning a really independent state. But of course it is not alleged

AMERICAN BANANA CO. v. UNITED FRUIT CO. 359
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that Costa Rica stands in that relation to the United Fruit
Company.
The acts of the soldiers and officials of Costa Rica are not
alleged to have been without the consent of the government
and must be taken to have been done by its order. It ratified
them, at all events, and adopted and keeps the possession taken
by them; O'Reilly de Camara v. Brooke, 209 U. S. 45, 52; The
Paquete Habana, 189 U. S. 453, 465; Dempsey v. Chambers,
154 Massachusetts, 330, 332. The injuries to the plantation
and supplies seem to have been the direct effect of the acts of
the Costa Rican government, which is holding them under an
adverse claim of right. The claim for them must fall with the
claim for being deprived of the use and profits of the place. As
to the buying at a high price, etc., it is enough to say that we
have no ground for supposing that it was unlawful in the countries where the purchases were made. Giving to this complaint
every keasonable latitude of interpretAtion we are of opinion
that it alleges no case under the, act of Congress and discloses
nothing that we can suppose to have been a tort where it was
done. A conspiracy in this country to do acts in another jurisdiction does not draw to itself those acts and make them unlawful, if they are permitted by the local law.
Further reasons might be given why this complaint should
not be upheld, but we have said enough to dispose of it and to
indicate our general point of view.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTIcE HARLAN

concurs in the result.

