MANSON v. WILLIAMS.
213 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

justified by demand on the directors alone, nor consider whether
stockholders have the power to compel directors to institute
suits to which the directors are opposed.
We answer both questions certified in the negative.

MANSON v. WILLIAMS, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF
HUDSON CLOTHING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST

CIRCUIT.
No. 169.

Argued April 20, 21, 1909.-Decided May 3, 1909.

Where both the District Court and Circuit Court of Appeals have found
as a fact that a partnership existed and owned the stock; while this
court may, it will not, as a general rule, disturb the findings.
While an adjudication putting two'or more persons into bankruptcy
as partners is, for the purpose of administering the property, good as
against all the world, it does not establish the existence of the partnership except as against parties entitled to be heard, and that question is not res judicata,as against one who had denied being a partner
and had not been heard.
It will be presumed that one who furnished capital for business expects
gain therefrom, and if he is not a creditor receiving interest, his gain
must come from profits as a.partner.
In this case, there being evidence to support the finding of the two lower
courts that a partnership existed by an implied understanding between two brothers pending the formation of a corporation, this
court affirms the judgment notwithstanding that it might not necessarily have reached the same conclusion had the case been here tried
in the first instance.
153 Fed. Rep. 525, affirmed.
TE facts are'stated in the opinion.
Mr. John W. Manson, with whom Mr. Harry R. Coolidge was

on the brief, for appellants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

Mr. John S. Williams, with whom Mr. Albert S. Woodman
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HoLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition by the appellee, the trustee in .bankruptcy
of the Hudson Clothing Company, that the appellants, the
trustees in bankruptcy of Henry Hudson, pay over to the appellee the proceeds of a stock of goods alleged to have belonged
to the company. The referee in bankruptcy made an order
as prayed, which was sustained on the principal matter by
the District Court, 148 Fed. Rep. 305; and the decree of that
court was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 153 Fed.
Rep. 525; S.C., 82 C. C. A. 475. A further appeal has been
taken to this court. Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S.
296.
The facts to be gathered from the opinion of the Circuit
Court of Appeals and admitted are these. Henry Hudson
became the owner of a stock of goods and desired to sell them.
He also wished to help his brother James, and therefore put
him in to do the selling. In the beginning he contemplated
forming a corporation, turning the goods over to it and taking
most of the stock as security, but letting James take the profits.
This plan, however, was allowed to slumber, and the business
was carried on by James for over two years. From an early
moment James adopted the name of Hudson*Clothing Company, using it as a sign, and in advertisements and on billheads. This was known to Henry, and when he advanced
money to the business, as he did, he charged it on his books
to the company. The bank account was kept with James,
the bank book having the name Hudson Clothing. Company
above. Some of the exhibits in evidence have, besides the
name of the company, the words "Henry Hudson, Pres.,"
and "James Hudson, Treas. and Mgr." There was no act of
transfer on the part of Henry, but when he took goods from
the shop he paid for them in the same way as if he had bought

MANSON v. WILLIAMS.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

them elsewhere. Both the District Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals have found as a fact that the brothers were
partners, and that the goods belonged to the. firm. In such
cases this court as a rule will not disturb the findings, but it
has done so in some instances, Darlingtonv. Turner, 202 U. S.
195, 220, and in the-case' at bar the appellants contend that
there really was no evidence to justify the result reached.
The appellee says that the question is concluded by the adjudication putting the company into bankruptcy, that being
an adjudication against the two brothers. On the other hand,
the record shows that the trustees of Henry, although they
had filed a denial and answer, were not heard on that question.
The principle of law. is plain. The adjudication put the two
brothers into bankruptcy for the purpose of administering
whatever property there might be, as against all the world.
But it did not establish the facts upon which it was founded,
no matter how necessary the connection, except as against
parties entitled to be heard. Tilt v. Kelsey, 207 U. S. 43, 52.
If the trustees of Henry were not entitled to be heard, it is
because they had no concern with whether the alleged firm
was wound up in bankruptcy or not, but only with the facts
upon which creditors sought to wind it up, that is to say, the
existence of the partnership and the title to the partnership
assets, and these facts.would remain open to dispute. As ,the
trustees of Henry were not heard, it would come with bad
grace from one who might have urged the foregoing considerations, toargue here that they are bound to admit anything
except that Henry and his brother are in bankruptcy as partners. Furthermore, we gather from the opinion of the District
Judge that all parties requested him to examine the evidence,
and that the defense of -es judicata really was,waived. But as
the partnership might have been a partnership-in profits only,
leavingthe title to the capital in Henry alone, the adjudication,
even if it established that there had been a partnership, could
not conclude anything as to the title to the assets, the matter
with which we now are concerned.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

We come back then to the question. whether the findings of
the two courts below are so clearly unwarranted as to call upon
us to reconsider the evidence and to reverse the decree. In
the first place we may lay on one side the fact that the parties
began with the intent to form a corporation. They did not
understand that they were acting as a corporation, nor did
their dealings so far purport to be dealings of a corporation
as to preclude the finding that was made. Now suppose that
we take nothing more than the facts that one man furnishes
capital and another his personal service in disposing of it, and
that the latter is admitted to be interested in the profits if
any, and at the same time not to be a debtor of the former.
We have a right to infer that if a man furnishes capital he expects some gain from it. But as, in the case supposed, he is
not a creditor and will not get interest, his gain must come from
profits, of the business. Some kind of joint interest therefore
may be inferred, and the Circuit Court of Appeals would have
had some warrant from these facts alone for concluding that
Henry would have had a right to share the profits equally with
James.
We are aware that there is evidence looking the other way,
but that is not the question.. On the other hand, the inference
is strengthened by the facts that we have mentioned. Henry
Hudson knew the name under which the business was done,
and is likely to have known that his name sometimes was exhibited as president. It is true that the terms suggest a corporation, but under our usages not necessarily, and he at least
knew that there was no corporation. He paid for the goods
he bought, as if other interests were concerned. We mention
these facts as admissions by conduct. Apart from the findings of the two courts it is unlikely that if great profits had
been realized he would not have demanded a shafe. As to
James, not only is it admitted that he was interested in profits,
out there is some evidence that he contributed to the assets,
is we shall explain.
If we take it as established that both brothers were interested

MANSON v. WILLIAMS.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the businebs, it is not a difficult step to infer that the capital
of the business was firm capital. Whether capital shall be
attributed to the firm or to a partner is a matter that often
e~capes the attention of the members. For if there is a joint
liability for ddbts it does not matter very much to the party
,firnishing the capital whether he owns it or Whether he charges
it to the, firm. In a case where two partners contributed capital and, two partners contributed time it was held that the
capital belonged to the firm and that those who contributed
time were bound to make good their proportion of the loss.
Whitcomb v. Converse, 119 Massachusetts, 38. Moreover,
when James went into the business a thousand dollars belonging to him were deposited in his name undistinguished from
the deposits on the business account. The money or a part of
it was used to pay liabilities of Henry.in connection with the
stock in trade. It is true that ultimately more than that sum
was used in paying James's outstanding debts, but. the mingling of funds tends to show a common interest. The facts that
we have mentioned seem to us to constitute some evidence
that the relation between the brothers was a partnership by
implied understanding until a corporation should be formed.
It does not matter that it was not formally recognized or that
they may not have used the name to themselves if that is the
fair result of what 'they did understand and intend. We do
nct say that we necessarily should have -come to this conclusion if the case had been tried before us in the first instance,
but upon a pure question of fact the error, if there was one,
is not so plain as to call upon us to depart from our usual rule.
Decree affirmed.

