MURRAY v. WILSON DISTILLING CO.
213 U. S.

Syllabus.

and need not allege the conclusion of law. On the principle of
the cases last cited, in order to make its prohibition effective
the law can throw the burden of finding out the fact and date of
a prostitute's arrival from apother country upon those who
harbor her for a purpose that presumably they know in any
event to be contrary to law.' Therefore, while I have admitted
that the time fixed seems to me to be long, I can see no other
constitutional objection to the act, and, as I have said, I think
that that one ought not to prevail
MR. JUSTiCE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE MOODY

concur in

this dissent.

MURRAY, McSWEEN, AND PATTON, CONSTITUTING
THE STATE DISPENSARY COMMISSION O. SOUTH
CAROLINA, v. WILSON DISTILLING COMPAI4Y.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 625.

Argued February 26, March 1, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.

Purchases made by state officers of supplies for business carried on by

the State are made by the State, and suits by the vendors against the
state officers carrying on or winding up the business are suits against
the'State and, under the Eleventh Amendment, beyond the jurisdiction of the Federal courts; and so held a4 to suits against commissioners to wind up the State Liquor Dispensary of South Carolina.
A bill in equity to compel specific performance of a contract between
an individual and a State cannot, against the objection of the State,.
be maintained in the Federal courts. Christianv. Atlantic & N. C.
R. R., 133 U. S. 233.
A state statute will not, by strained implication, be construed as a
divestiture of rights of property, or as authorizing administration of
the assets of a governmental agency, without the presence of the
State, and so held as to the statute of South Carolina providing for
winding up the State Liquor Dispensary.
The consent of a State to be sued in its own courts by'a creditor does
not give that creditor the right to sue in a Federal court. Chandler v.
Dix, 194 U. S. 590.

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Petitioners.

213 U. S.

Even though state legislation and decisions as to the construction of
state statutes may not be controlling upon this court, yet they. may
be persuasive.
Although by engaging in business a State may not avoid a preexisting
right of the Federal Government.to tax that business, the State does
not thereby lose the exemption from suit under the Eleventh Amend-.
ment.. South Carolina v. Unite States, 199 U. S. 437, distinguished.
.The legal histor of the constitutional provisions and legislative enactments of South Carelina in regard to the State Liquor Dispensary,

reviewed.
161 Fed. Rep. 152, reversed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion
Mr. B. V. Abney, with whom Mr. J. FraserLyon was on the
brief, and Mr.W. F. Stevenson, for petitioners:
The commission, as individuals, have no interest in the
fund. They are mere agents holding a fund, with the power,
after they shall have determined what is a just liability, to pay
the same over out of the fund. The assets are still the assets of
the State. Being officers of the State, with the funds of the
State in their possession belonging to the State, and these suits
being brought by alleged creditors of the State, the State is the
real party in interest, and the suit is virtually against the State.
See opinion below; McHose v. Dutton, 55 Iowa, 728; Brown
University Case, 56 Fed. Rep. 55; Yale College Case, 52 Fed.
Rep. 177; Lowery v. Thompson, 25 S.Car. 416; Board &c. v.
Gantt, 76 Virginia, 455; Louisiana v. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711;
Hagood v. Southern, 177 U. S.52.
The state dispersary commission are not defending any case
of trespass or of wrongs they may have committed towards
the persons or property of the complainants under an unconstitutional statute; nor are they affirmatively, through and by
means of an unconstitutional statute, injuring the complainants or invading any of their property rights; nor are they
attempting to enforce an unconstitutional statute. Consequently, this case does not fall within any class of cases-mentioned by the court below, nor is it similar to any of the cases

MURRAY v. WILSON DISTILLING CO.
213 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

cited by that court. The action of the court if plaintiff succeeds will have the effect of depriving the State of funds or
property in its possession. This conflicts with the Eleventh
Amendment. Louisiana v. Jumel, 107 U, S. 711; Farmers'
NationalBank v. Jones, 105 Fed. Rep. 459; Christianv. Atlantic &c. R. Co;, 133 U. S. 233; Brown University v. R. I. College,
56 Fed. Rep. 55; Lowery v. Commissioners of Sinking Fund, 25
S. Car. 416; Board of Public Works v. Gantt, 76 Virginia, 455.
The act of 1907 did not cteate a trust nor divest the State
of all control or disposal of the state dispensary property. It
simply authorizes claimants to sue or to have their claims established against it, and to be paid out of a certain fund. Allowing such claims to be established and sued on could not be
constrned as admitting the validity of the claim. Bank v. State,
60 S. Car. 465.
The statute books of the State contain instances where the
legislature has seen fit, instead of making the investigation
through its own committees, to devolve this duty upon certain
persons as commissioners or upon regularly appointed tribunals.
But no state decision has ever held that by such act a contract
was created between the State and the claimants, which disabled the legislature from either modifying or repealing-such
statute. Campbell v. Sanders, 43 S. Car. 577.
If the act of 1907 is nothing more than the creation of a commission before which the State authorizes its creditors to sue
and to have their claims established and adjusted, then it
cannot amount to a contract irrevocable, and this court has
repeatedly so decided: Beers v. Arkansas, 20. How. 527; Railroad Co. v. Tennessee, 101 U. S. 337; Railroad Co. v. Alabama,
101 U. S. 832; Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 17; Baltzer v.
North Carolina, 161 U. S. 245; Ex parte Alabama, 23 Am. Rep.
567; In re Ayers, 123 U. S. .507; De Saussure v. Gaillard, 127
U. S. 216.
The State by this act expressly devolves the right and duty
upon the commission to -investigate, determine and ascertain
the just liabilities against it held by these claimants, and .does

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Respondent.

213 U. S.

not authorize suits to be brought against it to establish such
liabilities either in its own courts or in the Federal courts.
Smith v. Reeves, 178 U. S. 436; Chandler v. Dix, 194 U. S. 590;
Maury v. Commonwealth, 92 Virginia, 310.
The highest court of the State is, except in the matter of
contracts, the ultimate tribunal to determine the meaning of
its statutes. Batchel v. Wilson, 204 U. S. 36.
The Federal courts will follow, in this case, the decision of
the Supreme Court of the State construing the act of 1907,
unless this court shall take the view that that act created a
contract with the. claimants, creditors of the State, which the
State cannot, by subsequent legislation, interfere with. Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 150; Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly,
1 Black, 436; McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 102; Mobile
Trans. Co. v. Mobile, 187 U. S. 480; Jack v. Kansas, 199 U. S.
372; Bacon v. Texas, 163 U. S. 207; Louisville Trust Co. v.
Cincinnati, 76 Fed. Rep. 296; De Saussure v. Gaillard, 127
U. S. 216; Lewis' Sutherland Stat. Constr., par. 313.
Where the Federal courts are not by rule bound to follow the
decisions of the state courts in cases falling within the exception, they will consider such decisions upon the point in question and will 'incline to an agreement with the state courts.
Mead v. Portland, 200 U. S. 163; Blair v. City of Chicago, 201
U. S. 400; Copper Mining Co. v. Territorial Board &c., 206
U. S. 474; Theological Seminary v. Illinois, 188 U. S. 662;
Tampa Waterworks v. Tampa, 199 U. S. 241; Douglas v. Kentucky, 168 U. S. 502.
Mr. Daniel W. Rountree, with whom Mr. Clifford L. Anderson and Mr. Thomas B. Felder were on the brief, also argued
for petitioners.
Mr. Alfred S. Barnard,with whom Mr. George B. Lester was
on the brief, for respondent, the Fleischmann Company:
The winding up act of 1907 created a trust, and the funds
in the hands of the commission are a trust fund held by them
for the benefit of the creditors of the state dispensary.

. MURRAY v. WILSON DISTILLING CO.
213 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

If an individual debtor had by a written -instrument similar
in terms to the act of 1907, placed property or funds in the
hands of another to be used as directed in said act, that person
would become a trustee. Eliminating all of the foreign matter
in this case, it is a plain suit in equity, brought by a cestui que
trust, to compel a trustee, holding property for his benefit, to
perform the duties imposed upon him by the instrument creating the trust. The only novel feature in this case, and that is
more apparent than real, is that the trust was created by a
State. But this is not new and involves no new principle, for
that a State or sovereign can create a trust and that a trust so
created is enforceable in a court of equity, see Perry on Trusts
(5th ed.), ยง 30; Beach on Trusts and Trustees (1897 ed.), ยง 3;
Commissioners v. Walker, 6 How. 143; Board of Liquidation v.
McComb, 92 U. S. 541; Chaffriax v. Board of Liquidation,
11 Fed. Rep. 638; Swasey v. N. C. R. R.. Co., 23 Fed. Cas.
518.

The same principle is clearly recognized in Louisiana v.
Jumel, 107 U. S. 711; Vose v. Internal Improvement Fund, 28
Fed. Cas. 1226; Ford v. Delta & Pine Land Co., 164 U. S. 662.
See also McKee v. Lamon, 159 U. S. 317; Bearing v. Dabney, 16
Wall. 1; Clews v. Jamieson, 182 U. S. 461, 479, 480; Gibbs v.
Green, 54 Mississippi, 592; Maenhaut v. New Orleans, 2 Woods,
108.
This court is not bound by the decision of the Supreme
Court of South Carolina, construing the act of 1907. The
record shows that this decision was rendered in a proceeding
in the Supreme Court of South Carolina to which these complainants were not parties, and after the complainants had, filed
their bills in the United States Circuit Court for the District of
South Carolina, and that court had taken jurisdiction and
construed the act of 1907. The complainants were therefore
entitled to the independent judgment of the United States
Circuit Court in construing that act; and this case is not
within the rule which requires this court to follow state decisions in the construction of state statutes. Pease v. Peck, 18

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Respondent.

213 U. S.

How. 595; Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 33; CarrollCounty
v. Smith, 111 U. S.556; Anderson v. Santa Anna Trp. Co., 116
U. S. 356 Pleasard Improvement Co. v. 2Etna Life Ins. Co., 138
U. S.67; Great Southern Hotel Co. v. Jones, 193 U. S. 533;
Wicomico County v. Bancroft, 203 U. S. 112.
This is not a suit against the State. This suit is brought by
the complainants as creditors of the state dispensary to compel the defendants to perform specific duties which the legitlature of the State has directed them to perform. The purpose of the suit is not to require the defendants to do that
which the law of the State forbids, but to compel them to do
what *thestatute says they shall do. Rolston v. Commissioners,
120 U. S. 390.
The Eleventh Amendment is of necessity limited to those
suits in which the State is a party to the record. In deciding
who are parties to a suit the court will not look beyond the
record. Making a state officer a party; does not make the
State a party, although her law may have prompted his action, and the State may stand behind him as the real party
in interest. Osborne v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; Davis v. Gray, 16
Wall. 220; United States v. Lee, 106 U. S, 196; Board of Liquidation v. McComb, 92 U. S.1531. Recent cases in which the court says it will, in determining
who are the real parties -to the suit, look beyond the record,
such as in Louisiana v. Jumel, 107 U. S.711; Cunningham v.
Macon &c. R. R. Co., 109 U. S.455; Hagood v. Southern, 117
U. S.70; In re Ayres, 123 U. S.492, can be distinguished as in
those cases there was no trust cieated, and there was no specific
fund which the complainants were seeking to reach.
The State is not claiming any interest in the fund in the
hands of these defendants, and in order to enforce the trust
imposed by the act of 1907, the State is neither a necessary, nor
an indispensable, party. Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S.
1; Swasey v. N. C. R. R. Co., 23 Fed. Cas. 518; Chaffraix v.
Board of Liquidation, 11 Fed. Rep. 632; Tindall v. Wesley, 167
U. S. 220. See also Ex parte Young, 209 U. S.158; Western

MURRAY v. WILSON DISTILLING CO.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Union Tel.. Co. v. Myatt, 98 Fed. Rep. 335; Atlantic Coast
Line R. R. Co. v. Virginia Corporation Commission, 211 U. S.
210.

Mr. T. Moultrie Mordecai, with whom Mr. Frank Carter,
Mr. Simeon Hyde and Mr. H. C. Chedester were on the brief,
for respondent, the Wilson Distilling Company.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The State of South Carolina in the year 1892 assumed the
exclusive management of all traffic in liquor. To carry out
this purpose & board of control was created, composed of the
governor, the comptroller general and the attorney general,
clothed with power to supervise the system of liquor traffic
which the act embodied and to adopt general rules and regulations. pertaining to the subject. All liquor intended for consumpti3n was required to be bought by an officer styled a commissioner, upon whom was cast the duty of distributing the
liquoi to local officials, known as dispensers. The funds to
initiate the business were drawn from the state treasury. The
general features of the act of 1892 were preserved in a statute
approved January 21 1895. Acts S. Car. 1895, p. 721. This
last-mentioned act is set out in full in a marginal note to the
opinion in Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58. In that case it was
recognized that the 'ct of 1895 provided for the purchase by
the State, through its officers or agents, of all liquor to be sold
in South Carolina, and although the act was held to be repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, the raling
was not based upon the conception that there was a want of
governmental power in the State to become the sole purchaser
and seller within, its borders of liquor, but exclusively upon the
ground that particular provisions contained in the statute discriminated against the products of other States. A new state
constitution was ratified, which went into effect from and after
December 31, 1895. Therein it was provided as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

Article VIII, section 11, Constitution, 1895.
"In the exercise of the police power the general assembly
shall have the right to prohibit the manufacture and sale and
retail of alcoholic liquors or beverages within the State. The
general assembly may license persons or corporations to manufacture and sell and retail alcoholic liquors or beverages within
the State, under such rules and restrictions as it deems proper;
or the general assembly may prohibit the manufacture and
sale and retail of alcoholic liquors and beverages within the
State, and may authorize and empower state, county, and
municipal officers, all or either, under the authority and in the
name of the State, to buy in any market and retail within the
State liquors and beverages in such packages and quantities,
under such rules and regulations, as it deems expedient: Provided, That no license shall be granted to sell alcoholic beverages
in less quantities than one-half pint, or to sell them between
sundown and sunrise, or to sell them to be drunk on the premises: And provided, further, That the general assembly shall not
delegate to any municipal corporation the power to issue
license to sell the same."
Article XI,. section 12, Constitution, 1895.
"All the net income to be derived by the State from the sale
or license for the sale of spirituous, malt, vinous and intoxicant
liquors and beverages, not including so much thereof as is now
or may hereafter be allowed by law to go to the counties and
municipal corporations of the State, shall be applied annually
in aid of the supplementary taxes provided for in the sixth
section of this article; and if, after said application, there should
be a surplus, it shall be devoted to public school purposes, and
apportioned as the general assembly may determine: Provided,
however, That the said supplementary taxes shall only be
levied when the net income aforesaid from the sale or license
for the sale of alcoholic liquor or beverages are not sufficient
to meet and equalize the deficiencies for which the said supplementary taxes are provided."

MURRAY v. WILSON DISTILLING CO.
213 U. S.

159

Opinion of the Court.

Under these provisions, in 1896 (Acts S.-Car. 1896, p. 123)
a new law concerning the liquor traffic was enacted. The statute provided for the election by the general assembly of a
state board of control, clothed with power to purchase all
liquors for use in the State. A state commissioner, to be appointed by such board, was empowered to furnish liquors to
the various local dispensaries provided for in the statute,
which were under the immediate authority of county boards
having power to appoint officers, known as dispensers, to sell
liquors direct to consumers. The act of 1896 was amended in
particulars, not necessary to be detailed, in March, 1897. In
Vance v. Vandercook, No. 1, 170 U. S.438, the contention that
the act of 1896, as amended by the act of 1897, was repugnant
to the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United
States, was passed upon. The limited ruling made in Scott v.
Donald was stated. It was expressly held that the act in
question was a manifestation of the police power of the State,
and therefore was within the purview of the provisions of the
act of Congress commonly referred to as the Wilson Act. It
was decided that as the provisions in the prior act, which were
held in Scott v. Donald to be discriminatory, had been eliminated, the act was not repugnant to the commerce clause of the
Constitution in so far as it exerted the absolute control of the
State over the purchase and sale of liquor within the State.
In State v. Farnum, 73 S. Car. 165, decided in 1905, the Supreme Court of South Carolina interpreted the dispensaryact
of 1896 as amended, and expressly held that "The offices and
places of business of the dispensary stand precisely in the same
relation to the State as the State Treasurer's office." -And.
speaking of the dispensary system, it was said (p. 171):
"The State has undertaken to take charge of the liquor business of the State, and to prohibit any private person or corporation from dealing in liquor; except as they may find warrant
in the Constitution and laws of the United States."
. The law of 1896, as amended, was kepealed on February 16,
1907. Acts S. Car. 1907, p. 463. The repealing act did away

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

with the general control of the traffic by means of a state board,
and therefore abolished that board. Instead of the system previously existing a more local one was substituted. The question whether liquor should be sold in a particular county was
left to the voters of the county. If, as the result of an election,
it was determined that the traffic in liquor should exist in the
county, it was provided that such traffic should be exclusively
carried on by means of county boards, appointed by the governor. Conformably to the constitution, these boards were
authorized to buy, "in the name of the State," liquors to be
sold within the county, with a proviso, however, restricting
the liability of the State to the sum of the assets of the local
dispensary.
On the same day that the foregoing act was approved there
was also approved a statute, entitled "An act to provide for
the disposition of all property connected with the State dispensary and to wind up its affairs." The text of this act is in the
margin.1 Summarily stated, the act created a commission to
I AN ACT to Provide for the Disposition of all Property Connected with
the State Dispensary, and to Wind Up Its Affairs.
1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of South
Carolina That immediately upon the approval of this act the ge-'ernor
shall appoint a commission of well-known business men, consisting of
five members, none of whom shall, be members of the general assembly,
to be known as the state dispensary commission, who shall each give
bond for the faithful performance of the duties required, in the sum of
$10,000.
SEC. 2. Said commission shall immediately organize by the election
of a chairman and secretary from their number.
SEC. 3. It shall be the duty of said commission to close out the entire
business and property of the state dispensary except real estate, and
including stock in the several county dispensaries, by disposing of all
goods and property connected therewith, by collecting all debts due and
by paying from the proceeds thereof all just liabilities at the earliest
date practicable. Said commission shall be at liberty to make such
disposition upon such terms, times and conditions as their judgment
may dictate: Proided, That no alcoholic liquors or beers shall be disposed of Within this State except to county dispensary boards, and all
liquors illegally bought by the present management may be returned to
SECTION

MURRAY v. WILSON DISTILLING CO.
213 U. &

Opinion of the Court.

consist of five members, to be appointed by the governor, who
were required to give bond to the State for the faithful discharge of their duties. To this body was given the control of
all the funds, assets and property, other than real estate, of
the state dispensary. It was made the duty of the commission
to investigate all facts concerning outstanding claims against
the state dispensary, and for that purpose to employ counsel

as might be approved by the attorney general, and such expert
accountants and clerks as were necessary, and to make full report to the governor on the subject. The commission was also
authorized, after investigation, to pay, from the proceeds of
the dispensary assets which might come into its hands, such
claims as were found to be valid and to turn over the surplus
to the state treasur6.
The commission thus authorized was appointed and began
the discharge of its duties. To this end a list of the outstanding
claims asserted to be due was made up and a hearing concerning
their amount and validity was commenced. For the purpose
the persons, firms or corporations from whom purchased, and for determining the legality of said purchases they are hereby authorized and
directed to investigate fully the circumstances surrounding all contracts
for liquors, and to employ such assistant counsel as may be approved
by the attorney general, and such expert accountants and stenographers
and any other person or persons the commission may deem necessary
for the ascertainment of any fact or facts connected with said state
dispensary and its management or control at any time in the past, and
to take testimony, either within or without the State: Provided further,
That all payments shall be made in gold and silver coin of the United
States, in United States currency, or in -national bank notes.
SEC. 4. The compensation of each member of said commission shall
be $5 per day for each day actually employed about the business, and
actual expenses for the time engaged: Provided, That they shall receive
no compensation for services rendered on this commission after January 1, 1908.
SEC. 5. The said commission shall pay to the state treasurer, after
deducting their compensation and other expenses allowed by this act,.
,all surplus funds on hand after paying all liabilities.
SEC. 6. The said commission is hereby authorized to employ such
bookkeepers, accountants, clerks, assistants and employds as they may
VOL. ccxuI-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

of this hearing a call was made by the commission for the production by the parties asserting claims of original books of
entry, showing the previous transactions with the State from
which the claims arose and the production for oral examination
of certain witnesses. The right of the commission to enter upon
this investigation was disputed by some of the. claimants and
they refused to comply with the call made for books and papers
and the production of witnesses. Thereupon certain of such
claimants invoked the authority of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of South Carolina by the commencement of the suits which are now before us. The first was
brought against the members of the commission by the Wilson
Distilling Company, a New Jersey corporation, having its principal place of business in the city of Baltimore, the bill being
filed not only on its own account but on behalf of all others who
might join in the cause. The complainant in the second suit,
which was also against the members of the commission, both
officially and individually, was the Fleischmann Company, an
Ohio corporation. Without detailing the proceedings by which
deem necessary, and to contract with them at the.time of employment
for their compensation.
Sic. 7. The said commission shall submit to the gdvernor, at the
earliest day practicable, a complete inventory of all property received
by them, with a statement of the liabilities of the state dispensary, and
as soon as the affairs are liquidated a report in full of their actings and

doings.
SEc. 8. That said commission shall have full power and authority
to investigate the past conduct of the affairs of the dispensary, and all
the power and authority conferred upon the committee appointed to
investigate the affairs of the dispensary, as prescribed by an act to provide for the investigation of the dispensary, approved 24th January,
A. D. 1906, be, and hereby is, conferred upon the commission provided
for under this act: Provided, That for the purpose of the investigation
of the affairs of the dispensary, as herein provided, each and. every
member of said commission be, and hereby is, authorized and empowered, separately and individually, or collectively, to exercise the
power and authority herein conferred upon the whole commission.
Approved the 16th day of February, A. D. 1907.

MURRAY v. WILSON DISTILLING CO.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

other claimants were joined as co-complainants in the Wilson
suit and by which the relief sought in that case and in the
Fleischnann case-which was somewhat divergent in the earlier stage of the litigation-was made to harmonize, it suffices to
say that in their ultimate form both bills of complaint rested
the jurisdiction of the court upon diversity of citizenship, asserted the existence of a valid claim against the dispensary fund
in favor of each complainant for liquor sold, and that each was
entitled to be paid out of the fund in the hands of and under
the control of the commission. The bills also proceeded upon
the theory that the act of 1907 had placed the assets of the dispensary in the hands of the commission as a trust fund for the
benefit of all creditors having valid claims against the fund,
which they were entitled to enforce by judicial action against
the commission, without the presence of the State as a necessary
party. Upon this assumption and upon the averment that the
members of the commission were refusing to discharge the duty
cast upon them by the state law, of ascertaining and paying the
just claims against the trust fund, an injunction was prayed,
restraining the commission from in any way disposing of the
fund until the claims of the complainants were paid. A receiver was also asked for the purpose of taking charge of the
assets, paying the valid claims against the same, including
those of the complainants, and otherwise settling, under the
direction of the court, the affairs of the state dispensary.
In both cases a temporary restraining order was allowed,
and a rule was granted to show cause why an injunction pendente lite should not be made and a receiver appointed as prayed.
Again omitting detail as to the form of the pleadings, it suffices
to say that, by return to the rules to show cause and by answers,
the commission, besides traversing most of the averments cons
tained in the bills, set up in substance that each suit was against
the State, and that the State had not consented to be sued, and
could not be impleaded without violating the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution. It was expressly averred that the
assets and property in the hands of the commission belonged- to.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

the State, were held by the commission as its agent and could
not be- administered without the presence of the State, which
was an indispensable party to the cause. The claim was also
made that the commission was a judicial tribunal and was riot
subject to be restrained by an injunction from a Federal court.
After the allowance of the temporary. restraining order in
the Fleischmann case, various banks in which the commission
had deposi ed to its credit dispensary funds were made parties
defendant, and enjoined from paying out suclh funds except
upon the order of the court. Subsequently', in the same case,
after a hearing on January 29, 1908, upon the rfile to show
cause, an order was entered on March 2, 1908, continuing the
temporary restraining order until the final determination of
the suit. The motion for thO appointment of a-receiver was,
however, continued without prejudice. The opinion of. the
court is reported in 161 Fed. Rep. 152. A like order was also
cotemporaneously entered in the Wilson case, and in that case,
likewise, an order was entered on March 5, 1908, making the
banks who had the dispensary funds on deposit parties defendant, and restraining them from paying them out. In this connection it is to be remarked that the banks who were thus restrained in both cases, as security for the dispensary funds
placed with them by the commision, had each delivered to
that body bonds, stock and other collaterals, and the sgma had
been by-the commission deposited in the. state treasury. After the submission and before the court had decided the
rules to show cause the legislature of South Carolina passed
two statutes concerning the state 'dispensary fund. By the
first the winding up act of 1907 was a-mended by in'creasing the
compensation of the commission, by directing the sale of the
cjspensary real estate, etc., and the payment out of the fund
of a certain judgment for damages. The eleventh 'section of
the act was amended so as to read as follows:
"SEc. 11. That said commission is hereby declared to possess full power to pass upon, fix and determine all claims against
the State growing out of dealings with the dispensary, and to

MURRAY v. WILSON DISTILLING CO.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pay for the State any and all just claims, which have been submitted to and determined by it, and no other, out of the assets
of the. dispensary which have been, or may hereafter be collected by said State dispensary commission: Provided, That
each and every person, firm gr corporation presenting a claim
or claims to said commission shall have the right to appeal to
the Supreme Court as in cases at law: Providedfurther, That
notice of intention to appeal shall be served upon said commission within ten days of rendition of judgment by the said commission, and the practice in taking all steps in perfecting the
appeal shall conform to the practice in other appeals to. the
Supreme Court." Laws 1908, p. 1289.
By the second act the commission was directed to pay fifteen
thousand dollars into the state treasury, to be used for the expenses of criminal prosecutions for violations of the laws relating to "the. late institution called the State dispensary." The
commissioners refused to pay out of the dispensary funds in
their' hands the fifteen thousand dollars directed by the lastmentioned statute, on the ground that they were under an injunction from the Circuit Court of the United States. Thereupon the attorney general of the State began proceedings by
mandamus in the Supreme Court of South Carolina to compel
compliance with the act. The case was decided on March 14,
1908. The court, in an elaborate, careful and perspicuous opinion, reviewed the dispensary legislation, expressly held that
the statutes governing the same made the State the purchaser
of the liquors bought for consumption, and, therefore, that
those who had sold the liquor to the state dispensary had contracted with the State, and with the State alone; that all the
assets and property of the dispensary belonged to the State, and
that the commissioners appointed to wind up and liquidate
its affairs were state officers, entrusted with a public duty on
behalf of the State. As a result of these conclusions it was determined that the Circuit Court of the United States was without jurisdiction to enjoin the commissioners as state officers
from disposing of the state property as the state statute di-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U.,S.

rected, and therefore a right 'existed to a peremptory mandamus. The issuing of the peremptory writ, however, was left in
abeyance, the court-doubtless for the purpose of avoiding an
unseemly conflict with the Circuit Court-saying that it would
not assume "that the construction which it has placed upon
the state constitution and the statutes in question will be dis-

regarded by the Federal court." 79 S. Car. 316. A few days
before this decision was announced, and in consequence of representations made to the Circuit Court that a bill had been
introduced in the general assembly of South Carolina: directing
the commission to turn into the state treasury the dispensary
funds, the Circuit Court appointed the members of the commission temporary receivers of the fund, with directions to
hold the same subject to the orders of the court. Subsequently,
on March 9, i909,'the Circuit Court entered an order, consolidating the two causes, and appointing three persons receivers
of the dispensary fund, two of those thus appointed being at
that time, or having been shortly prior thereto, members of
the commission.

Following the decision of the Supreme Court ot South Carolina in the case last referred to, and on March 27, 1908, the defendants in the consolidated causes filed a motion "for an order
revoking the former orders of the said court, granting an injunction and appointing receivers, on the ground that the Supreme
Court of South Carolina has now construed the statutes of
South Carolina and the constitution of the said State, under
which the colmplainants claim their rights, and has construed
it differently from the said Circuit Court's construction which
construction, if followed, ousts the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court." The motion was denied. '161 Fed. Rep. 162. Thereafter the Wilson Distilling Company, by leave, filed ii the consolidated cause an amendment to its bill, setting up'the claim
that the "acceptance by the. defendants constituting the said
dispensary commission, as trustees, of the trust created by. said
act [of February 16, 1907], and the acceptance by the complainants and the other creditors of said State dispensary, as cestuis

MURRAY v. WILSON DISTILLING CO.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

que trust, of the benefits of the trust so created, constituted a
valid, binding and irrepealable contract within the meaning
and protection of the Constitution of the United States, and of
article 1, section 10, thereof, the protection whereof is hereby.
expressly claimed by your orators." Following said averment
it was alleged that the act approved February 24, 1908, heretofore 'referred to, was repugnant to Art. I, ยง 10, of the Constitution of the United States, and to the Fourteenth Amendment,
"for that same impairs and attempts to impair the obligation of the contract set out in the last preceding paragraph
hereof, and deprives and attempts to deprive the complainants
of their property without due process of law, and denies, and
attempts to deny, to them the equal protection of the law, in
violation of the aforesaid provisions of the Constitution of the
United States," In a separate paragraph it was averred that
the object and purpose of the institution of the mandamus suit
in the state court "was to hinder, delay and defeat the enforcement by this court of the trust created by said act of 1907, and
the administration of said trust by this court in the aboveentitled causes." The Circuit Court on its own motion made
an order directing the payment to the attorney general of South
Carolina of the sum of fifteen thousand dollars upon his application therefor, and modified the former orders of the court to
the extent necessary to permit the receivers to make such payment.
To reverse the interlocutory orders granting an injunction
pendente lite and appointing receivers, an appeal was prosecuted
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit by the
three members of the commission then in office, officially and
individually, and by certain of the banks which had been made
defendants. The Circuit Court of Appeals on September 15,
1908, affirmed the action of the lower court. 162 Fed. Rep. 1.
This writ of certiorari was thereupon allowed.
Underlying all the contentions made in the cause is the
fundamental question whether the suits were in substance suits
against the State, and therefore beyond the jurisdiction of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

Circuit Court, because of the express prohibition of the Eleventh
Amendment. As that question is the pivotal one, we come at
once to its consideration.
If we consider as an original question the provisions of the
constitution of South Carolina on the subject and the terms of
the statutes of that State establishing the dispensary system,
we think it is apparent that the purchases which were made by
the state officers, or agents, of liquor for consumption in South
Carolina, were purchases made by the State for its account, and,
therefore, that the relation of debtor and creditor arose from
such transactions between the State and the persons who sold
the liquor. And this irresistible conclusion, arising from the
very face of the constitution and statutes, is removed beyond
all possible controversy by the decision of this court in Vance v.
Vandercook, No. 1, supra,and by the construction given by the
Supreme Court of South Carolina to the state statute prior to
the commencement of this litigation, in State v.Farnum, supra,
as well as by the convincing opinion expressed by that court
in reviewing .the state statutes in the mandamus case already
referred to as reported in 79 S.Car. 316.
We could not therefore sustain the exercise of jurisdiction
by the Circuit Court without in effect deciding that the State
can be compelled by compulsory judicial process to perform a
contract obligation. It is certain that, at least by indirection,
the bills of complaint sought.to compel the State to specifically
perform alleged contracts with the vendors of liquor by paying
for liquor alleged to have been supplied. But it is settled that
a bill in equity to compel the specific performance of a contract
between individuals and a State cannot, against the objection
of the State, be maintained in a court of the United States.
Thus, in Hagood v. Southern, 117 U. S.52, where, in suits
brought in a court of the United States against officers and
agents of the State of South Carolina, the holders of certain
revenue scrip of the State endeavored to enforce the redemption thereof according to the terms of the statute, in pursuance of which the scrip was issued, which statute was al-

MURRAY v. WILSON DISTILLING CO.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

leged to constitute an irrepealable contract, the court said
(p. 87):
"Though not nominally a party to the record,'it [the State]
is the real and only party in interest, the nominal defendants
being the officers and agents of the State, having no personal
interest in the subject-matter of the suit, and defending only
as representing the State. And the things required by the
decrees to be done and performed by them are the very things
which, when done and performed, constitute a performance of
the alleged contract by the State. The State is not only the
real party to the controversy, but the real party against which
relief is sought by the suit; and the suit is, therefore, substantially :within the prohibition of the Eleventh Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States, which declares that 'The
judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to
extend to any suit in law or equity commenced or prosecuted
against one of the United States by citizens of another State, or
by citizens or subjects of any foreign State. "
In the subsequent case of Christianv. Atlantic & N. C. Railroad, 133 U. S.233, by bill in equity, filed in a court of the
United States, it was attempted to reach dividends on the stock
of the defendant railroad company, and apply such dividends
to the Payment of the bonds issued by the State of North
Carolina, and for the sale of stock owned and held by the State.
It was contended for the complainants that the proceeding was
in rem against the stock to enforce a right in and tb it resulting
from an alleged contract by which the stock was pledged for the
benefit of the complainant6, although the stock was not actually
delivered to the alleged pledgee. 'It was held that the mere
declaration by the State in a statute that stock held by it was
pledged did not technically operate to create, a'i
ledge. Upon
the hypothesis that a mortgage of the stock might have been
effected, it was said (p. 243):
'.'The

proceeding is a suit against the party to obtain, by

decree of court, the benefit of the mortgage right. But where
the mortgagor in possession is a sovereign State, no such pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

ceeding can be maintained. The mortagee's right against the
State may be just as good and valid, in a moral point of view, as
if it were against an individual. But the State cannot be
brought into court or sued by a private party without its consent. It was at first held by this court that, under the Constitution of the United States, a State might be sued in it by a
citizen of another State, or of a foreign State; but it was declared by the Eleventh Amendment that the judicial power of
the United States shall not be construed to extend to such
suits. New Hampshire v. Louisiana, 108 U. S. 76; Louisiana
v. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711; Parsons v. Marye, 114 U. S. 325; Hagood v. Southern, 117 U. S. 52; In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443."
The complainants below, however, insist that if it be conceded that under the state dispensary statutes the relation of
the State and the sellers of liquor was that of debtor and creditor, the general assembly of South Carolina in the winding up
act of 1907 intended to and did alter that relation, because the
State, by that act, renouncing its control over the assets of the
state dispensary, vested the commission with the title to such
assets as trustees of an express trust, and constituted the creditors of the State who had furnished supplies for the use of the
dispensary the beneficiaries of such trust. The argument being
that hence the suits are not against the State, and therefore are
not within the inhibition of the Eleventh Amendment. It cannot be and is not denied that the construction of the winding
up act, upon which the contention rests, is contrary t6 that
entertained both by the general assembly of South Carolina
and by the highest court of the State, but it is urged that the
statutes of 1908, in respect to the dispensary fund and the
opinion of the Supreme Court were, the former enacted and the
latter announced after this litigation was commenced. But
if we assume that the legislation and decision referred to are not
controlling, yet they are persuasive. Aside from this, however,
considering the text of the winding up act, we are of opinion
that there is no just ground for the conclusion that the State,
in providing by that legislation for the liquidation of the affairs

MURRAY v. WILSON DISTILLING CO.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the state dispensary, intended to divest itself of its right of
property in the assets of that governmental agency, and to
endow the commissioners with a right and title to the property
which placed it so beyond the control of the State as to authorize a judicial tribunal to take the assets of the State out of the
hands of those selected to manage the same, and by means of a
receiver to administer such assets as property affected by a
trust, irrevocable in its nature, and thus to dispose of the
same without the presence of the State.
An interpretation of the act in question, producing such an
abnormal and extraordinary result as that just stated, cannot
be adopted merely. because it might be sustained by strained
implications. On the contrary, such interpretation could only
be warranted if exacted by the most express language or by
such overwhelming implication from the text as would leave no
room fnr any other reasonable construction. Coming to consider the act, it is patent that neither by express language nor
by necessary implication does it convey the meaning which the
proposition seeks to give to it. In form the winding up statute
is but an ordinary act of legislation, providing, in the interest
of the State, for an examination and liquidation of the claims
against the dispensary and their payment out of the state assets
when liquidated; so as to secure the State against unjust claims
a ad preserve its interest in the fund. The act does not, inexpress terms, make any change in the theretofore existing relation
of debtor and creditor between the State and the vendors
of liquor
under the state dispensary act. The conception
that
an irrevocable trust was intended to be created is negatived by
the requirement in the first section, for the giving by each member of the commission of a bond for the sum of ten thousand
dollars, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties
imposed. So also the wide discretion vested in the commission
by ยง 3, empowering it to arrive at a determination as to
the legality of purchases of liquor previously supplied by a full
investigation of the circumstances "surrounding all contracts
for liquors," and subjecting to the approval of the attorney

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

2.13 U. S.

general of the State the employment of counsel to make such
investigation, precludes the inference of an intention on the
part of the general assembly to terminate its control over the
fund. And the fact that the legislature deemed that the statute
was but an ordinary act of legislation over a subject designed
to be continued within legislative control is, we think, clearly
manifested in the eighth section of the act, which reads as follows:
"SEc. 8. That said commission shall have full power and
authority to investigate the past conduct of the affairs of the
dispensary, and all the power and authority conferred upon
the committee appointed to investigate the affairs of the dispensary, as prescribed by an act to provide for the investigation
(27) of tie dispensary, approved Januar6 24th-, A. D. 1906, be
and hereby is, conferred upon the commission provided for
under this act; provided, that for purposes of the investigation
of the affairs of the dispensary as herein provided, each and
every member of said commission be, and hereby is, authorized
and empowered, separately and individually, or collectively, to
exercise the power and authority herein conferred upon the
whole commission."
The absence in the winding up act of a provision conferring
authority to review in the ordinary courts of justice the action
of the commission concerning claims, instead of supporting the
contention that the State had abandoned all property right in
the funds placed in the hands of the commission, tends to a
contrary conclusion, since it at once suggests the evident purpose of the State to confine the determination of the amount df
its liability to claimants, to the officers or agents chosen by the
State for that purpose. And it is elementary that even if a
State has consented to be sued in its own courts by one of its
creditors, a rig.-.6 would not exist in such creditor to sue the
State in a court of the United States. Smith v. Reeves, 178
U. S. 436, and cases cited; Chandler v. Dix, 194 U. S. 590. The
situation, therefore, was not changed as a result of the subsequent act of Februy -24, 1908, giving the creditors of the State,

MURRAY v. WILSON DISTILLING CO.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

whose claims might be adversely acted upon by the commission,
the right to a review in the Supreme Court of the State.
The decision of the questions arising upon this record relating,
as they do, to rights and remedies of a mere contract creditor
of the State of South Carolina, is not in anywise controlled by
the ruling in SoUth Carolina v. United States, 199 U. S. 437,
where, although recognizing that official dispensers of liquors
under the laws of South Carolina were agents of the State, it
was held (p. 463) "that the license taxes charged by the Federal Government upon persons selling liquor are not invalidated
by the fact that they are the agents of the State, which has
itself engaged in that business." That case was concerned with
the power of a State, by virtue of its legislation in regard to the
sale and consumption of liquor, to destroy a preexisting right
of taxation possessed by the Government of the United States.
The ruling in this case but enforces an exemption of the State
from suit in the courts of the United States upon its contract
debts, an exemption which existed by virtue of the Constitution
of the United States at the time when the legislation was enacted out of which the alleged contracts arose.
Deciding as we do that the suits in question were suits against
the State of South Carolina, and within the inhibition of the
Eleventh, Amendment, the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed; the decree of the Circuit Court is also reversed,
and the cause remanded to that court with instructions to dismiss the bills of complaint.
And it is so ordered.
THE CmZF JUsTIcE took no part in the consideration or disposition of this case.

