CHESAPEAKE & OHIO :RY. CO. v. McCABE.
213 U. S.

207

Syllabus.

finitesimal value, that they acquired a substantial one, although
much less than that of the whiskey, because of their practical
use, and that this court is not concerned with'a mere overvaluation.' The tax is imposed on the theory thatthe receipts are
the equivalents of the goods and are taxable on that footing, although the goods cannot be taxed. Assuming, as the Court of
Appeals assumed, that the whiskey is exempt under the Constitution of the United States, we are of opinion that the protection of the Constitution extends to warehouse receipts locally present within the State. What was said by Chief Justice
Taney about bills of lading applies to them, mutatis mutandis:
"A duty upon that is, in substance and effect, a duty on the article exported." Almy v. California, 24 How. 169; Fairbank
v. United States, 181 U. S. 283, 294. We discuss the case on
the facts assumed by the Court of Appeals. Whether a finding
would have been warranted that the whiskey still was domiciled in Kentucky, or for any other reason was not exempt, is a
matter upon which we do not pass. See New York Central &
Hudson River R. R. Co. v. Miller, 202 U. S. 584, 597.
Judgment reversed.

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v. MCCABE, ADMINISTRATRIX.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.

No. 89. Argued January-25, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.
Where the case goes more than once to the highest court of the State
only the last judgment is the final one.
Where the highest court of the State reverses an order of an inferior
state court removing a cause and remands the case to the state court
for trial, and, after trial and verdict for plaintiff, the judgment is
sustained by the highest court, the last judgment is the only final one
to which the writ of error will run from this court- defendant cannot

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

213 U. S.

prosecute a writ of error to the judgment remanding the cause.
Schlosser v. Hemphill, 198 U. S. 173.
The United States Circuit Court has jurisdiction to determine for itself
the removability of a cause and may take jurisdiction thereof and
protect such jurisdiction even though the state court refuse to make
the removal order; and a final judgment, rendered by and under
such conditions by the Circuit Court, cannot be reviewed by the
state court, but such judgment is binding on the state court until
reversed by this court.
While a petitioner, if the state court denies his petition for removal,
may remain in that court and bring the case here for review on writ
of error after final judgment, he is not obliged so to do, but may file
the record in the Circuit Court, and that court has jurisdiction to
determine the question of removability and, notwithstanding § 720,
Rev. Stat., it may protect its jurisdiction by injunction against further
proceedings in the state court. Tradion Co. v. Mining Co., 196
U. S.239.
A judgment rendered by the Circuit Court under such conditions is
not void even if jurisdiction be improperly assumed and retained, as
the jurisdictional question can be reviewed by this court, and, until
reversed, the judgment is-binding on the state court and cannot be
treated as a nullity. Dowell v. Appelgate, 152 U. S.327.
THIS action was brought September 27, 1901, by the defendant in error. in,the Mason County Circuit Court of Kentucky

against the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company, a Virginia
.corporation, and the Maysville and Big Sandy Railroad Com-

pany of Kentucky, to recover damages for the death of her intestate, by the negligence, as it is alleged, of the Chesapeake
and Ohio Railway Company, in operating one of its trains over
a railroad track, which had been leased to it by the other com-

pany.
The allegations of the petition in substance are that the intestate of defendant' in error received injuries which caused his
death by being negligently run into by a train operated by the
Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company. And negligence is
charged against the Maysville and Big Sandy Railroad Company, in permitting its tracks to be used by the other company.

It alleges that more than twelve months before the injuries to
her intestate the Maysville and Big Sandy Railroad Company

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO. v. McCABE.
213 U. S.

209

Statement of the Case.

leased and transferred its entire line to the Chesapeake and
Ohio Railway Company, and that the latter has had since that
time the exclusive possession and control of it; that by the laws
of Kentucky the lease and transfer were ultra vires and void;
that in December, 1893, under § 211 of the constitution of
Kentucky, and under § 841 of the statute of the State, the
Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company became a corporation,
citizen and. resident of the State, by filing in the office of the
Secretary of State, and in the office of the Railroad Commissioner, copies of its articles of incorporation, and that thereupon
a certificate of incorporation was issued to it by the Secretary of
State. The petition further alleges that the railroad track was
laid in Third street in Maysville under an ordinance from the
city authorities; that the railroad occupied the whole street,
so as to render it unfit for travel by wagons or vehicles; that
the city authorities were without power to authorize such use
.of the street, and that the ordinance was void, and the operation of the trains on the street was illegal.
On December 11, 1901, the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway
Company filed a petition to remove the action to the Circuit
Court of the Uhited States for the Eastern District of Kentucky.
The petition set up that the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway
Company was a Virginia corporation; that the suit was of a
civil nature; that the amount involved exceeded $2,000; that
in the suit there was a controversy which was wholly between
citizens of different States, to wit, between the Chesapeake
and Ohio Railway Company, a citizen of Virginia, and the plaintiff in the suit, who, was a citizen of the State of Kentucky. It
was further alleged that the Maysville and Big Sandy Railroad
Company was not a necessary party to the suit, but was made
a defendant therein "for the sole and simple purpose" of preventing the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company from
removing the suit to the Circuit Court of the United States, and
thereby unlawfully, wrongfully and fraudulently depriving it
of a right conferred by the Constitution and laws of the United
States.
YOL.

CCXI-14

210 •

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

213 U. S.

Petitioner quotes all the allegations of the plaintiff connecting the Maysville and Big Sandy Company with liability, and
avers that "each and all of them" were "untrue and palpably
so, and were known to the plaintiff to be untrue" when made
in the original and amended petition. Petitioner alleges that by
reason of its charter and amendments thereto, and partly of
the act of February 17, 1866, entitled "An act authorizing the
sale of the Maysville and Big Sandy Railroad, and providing
for the organization of a new company under its charter to construct said road," (Session Acts, 1866, page 644), and of the
General Laws of the State of Kentucky, the Maysville and Big
Sandy Railroad Company, which petitioner states was reorganized under said act and laws, before the making of said contract and lease, had full authority to make the same, and that
petitioner was operating the railway under the same at the
time of the injury complained of. And the petitioner finally
"charges and avers that the allegations of the plaintiff's petition
and amended petition, hereinbefore recited and controverted,
were made and its co-defendant was made defendant to this
action' and was sued for the injury complained of herein, for
the sole and fraudulent purpose of depriving this defendant of
the right to remove this 'action to the Federal court for the
Eastern District of Kentucky, and of depriving that court of
its jurisdiction."
The petition was granted and the clerk of the court on the
fourteenth of December, 1901, was directed to make up the
record of said cause for transmission to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Kentucky: The plairtiff in the case excepted to the order and subsequently made a
motion to set it aside, which was denied. An appeal from the
order to the Court of Appeals was immediately granted, which
court, on the fifth of March, 1902, reversed the order and remanded the case for trial. 112 Kentucky, 186. The trial was
had and the jury instructed by the court to find in favor of the
defendant. This judgment was reversed by the Court of Appeals. 28 Ky. Law Rep.i 536, Another trial was had) result-

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO. v. McCABE.
213 U.S.

211

Statement of the Case.

ing in a verdict and judgment for plaintiff in the sum of $2,500
The judgment was sustained by the Court of Appeals. 30 Kp.,
Law Rep. 1009. To this judgment the writ of error in the
present ease was taken.
The record further shows that after the appeal from the order
of removal plaintiff in error filed a transcript of the record in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Kentucky, and the case was duly docketed. After the decision of the Court .of Appeals of Kentucky, reversing the order
of the Mason County Circuit Court, removing the case to the
Circuit Court of the United States, plaintiff filed in the latter
court a motion to remand the case to the state court. On October 19, 1903, that motion was overruled.
- On April 4, 1904, the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company fied in the Circuit Court of the United States its answer
to the petition of the plaintiff, and on motion of the latter
the cause was set down for trial April 12. On the latter date
the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company moved for judgment of dismissal of the suit on the face of the pleadings. This
motion was granted, and also a demurrer of the Maysville and
Big Sandy Railroad Company was sustained to the petitions
and judgment rendered.
On November 17, 1903, plaintiff in error offered for filing an
answer in the Masoi County Circuit Court, which set up the
petition for removal, and the order thereon removing the cause
to the Circuit Court of the United States, the filing in the latter
court of the transcript of the record and the docketing of the
cause the thirteenth of January, 1902. The answer alleged also
that on motion of the defendants a rule was issued against the
plaintiff to show cause why she should not be required to give
bond for costs or make a deposit of money in lieu thereof,-that
the plaintiff filed a response thereto, and after the decisioq of
the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, reversing the order removing
the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States appeared by
her counsel in the latter court, filed a petition to remand the
case to the state court, a brief in support thereof, the opinion

,212

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
-Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

213 U. S.

of the Court of Appeals, and that on the nineteenth of October,
1903, the motion was denied.
The motion to file the answer was denied by the state court,
but by order of the court it was made part of the record.
Notwithstanding the judgment of April 12, 1904, of the Circuit Court of the United States dismissing the action, the ,case
remained on the docket of the state court, and before it was
called for trial again the defendants therein (plaintiffs in error
here) tendered an amended answer, setting out all .the proceedings in the Circuit Court of the United States, attaching thereto
copies of the judgments of that court, and alleging that they
were in "force and effect unreversed," and pleaded "the same
to plaintiff's recovery against them and each of them in said
action." The court refused to let the answer be fied but ordered that it be made part of the record.
Mr. E. L. Worthington, with whom Mr. W. H. Wadsworth
and Mr. W. D. Cochran were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The judgment of the United States court in this action was
not void, even if the Federal court erred in taking jurisdictioi4
and if not void, then however erroneous it may have been, it
was, until reversed, a bar to further proceedings, on the same
cause of action, in the state court. Dowell v. Applegate, 152
1. S.-327; Des Moines Navigation Co. v. Iowa Homestead Co.,
f23 U. S. 552; Kern v. Huidekoper; 103 U. S. 48; Northern
Pacific R. R. Co. v. McMullen, 86 Wisconsin, 501.
A petition for removal and bond constitute the process by
which a case is ttansferred from a state to a Federal court.
Kinney v. Columbia Savings & Loan Asso., 191 U. S.78; Ex
parte Wisner, 203 U. S..449. A motion to remand is an objection to the sufficiency of the process. When a party comes into
a Federal court and objects to the sufficiency of the process .by.
whichoit was sought to bring him before the court, it is, in substance, a motion to quash the process. When a motion to quash.
a process is made and overruled, the question of the sufficiency
of the process is res judicatabetween the parties..

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO. v. McCABE.
213 U. S.

213

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Allan D. Cole, with whom Mr. W. T: Cole was on the
brief; for defendant in error:
The judgment of the United States Circuit Court for the
Eastern District of Kentucky, pleaded in bar herein, is a nullity.
Dexter, Horton & Co. v. Sayward, 84 Fed. Rep. 299; Amory v.
Amory, 95 U. S. 186; Insurance Co. v. Pechner, 95 U. S. 183;
Stone v. South Carolina, 117 U. S. 430; Carson v. Hyatt, 118
U. S. 279; Metcalf v. Watertown, 128 U. S. 586; Stevens v.
Nichols, 130 U. S.230; Crehore v. Railway Co., 131 U. S. 240;
Jackson v. Allen, 132 U. S.27; Graves v. Corbin, 132 U. S. 571.
Where it appears affirmatively by its own record that a court
did not have jurisdiction of the cause, its judgment is not merely
voidable but is an absolute nullity. Dexter, Horton & Co. v.
Sayward, 84 Fed. Rep. 299; citing: Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall.
350; Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 277; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95
U. S. 714; Settlemeir v. Sullivan, 97 U. S. 444; In rt Ayers,
123 U. S. 443; In re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200; Hovey v. Elliott,
167 U. S. 409.
Where a court has jurisdiction, it has a right to decide every
question which occurs in the cause; and, whether its decision
be 'correct or otherwise, its judgment, until reversed, is regarded as binding in every other court. But, if it acts without
authority, its judgment and orders are not voidable, but simply
void. They constitute no justification, and all persons concerned in executing such judgments or sentences are considered in law as trespassers. Elliott v. Piersol, 1 Pet. 328, 342.
See also Hilkey v. Stewart, 3 How. 750, 763; Williamson v.
Berry, 8 How. 495-565; Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457,
471; In re Sawyer, 124 U. S.200, 225; Guarantee Trust & Safe
Deposit Co. v. Green Cove Springs & M. R. Co., 139 U. S.137151.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing- statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
From the foregoing statement it is apparent that the princi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U.,.

pal question in this case, and it is the one which we regard as
decisive of it, concerns the effect of the judgment rendered in
the Circuit Court of the United States after it had taken jurisdiction, which was undertaken to be set up in the state court
as a bar to further proceedings therein. It is contended by the
defendant in error that when the Court of Appeals of Kentucky
rendered its judgment holding that the case was not a removable one (March 5, 1902), that was a final judgment upon the
question of jurisdiction, and the case should have been brought
here for review and determination. But we are of opinion that
this contention is not tenable. The case was three times in the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky, and only the last judgment in
that court was a final one. As we have seen, the state Circuit
Court, in which the action was originally begun, held the case
was a removable one, and from that order an appeal was prosecuted to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, that court, concluding that both railroads could be properly joined in the
action, held that the case was not removable, and remanded
the same to the state court for further proceedings.
Upon the second appeal the judgment for the plaintiff below
was reversed, and the cause remanded for a new trial. Upon
the third trial a judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiff
below for damages, which was affirmed in the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky, to which judgment this writ of error is prosecuted.
Nor is it material that the state supreme court regarded itself
as bound by the decision in th former appeal as the law of the
case and declined in the judgment now under review to again
consider the question. The judgment under review was the
only final judgment in the appellate court of the State from
which plaintiff in error could prosecute a writr of error, and until
such final judgment the case could not have been brought here
for review. Schlosser v. HemphiU, 198 U. S. 173, and cases
therein cited.
The Circuit Court of the United'States having taken jurisdiction of the case upon the removal, and having refused to
remand it, and proceeded to final judgment, should the state

. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO.
213 U. S.

1

McCABE.

Opinion of the Court.

court, when that judgment was offered to be pleaded before it,
have given effect to the judgment? That is the Federal question presented in this case. It is insisted for the defendant in
error that the right of removal depends upon the presentation
to the state court of a proper petition for removal, which petition should contain the essential allegations necessary to make
out a case under the statute for that purpose, and that unless'
this is done the jurisdiction of the state court is not divested.
And in aid of that contention cases are cited which hold that a
plaintiff has the right to make a cause of action joint when acting
in good faith, and when he has so made it, the action is deemed
to be joint for the purpose of determining the right of removal.
Alabama Great Southern Railway Co. v. Thompson, 200 U. S.
206; Cincinnati,New Orleans & Texas Pacific Railway Co. v.
Bohon, 200 U. S. 221. And inasmuch as the state court has held
that the Maysville and Big Sandy Railroad Company,. under
the law of Kentucky, could, be properly joined as defendant
with the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company in this case,
it is insisted that the plaintiff had a right to sue both companies,
and that the avernent in the petition for removal, that the
joinder was fraudulent, goes for nothing in the absence of a
showing of facts which make such joinder fraudulent in fact.
Wecker v. National Enameling & Stamping Co., 204 U. S. 176.
It is insisted that this contention is supported by a line of caes
in this court, which -have held that a state court is not bound
to surrender its jurisdiction until a petition for removal has been
filed which upon it face shows that the petitioner has a right
to the transfer of the cause. And it is contended that the petition in this case, in view of the decision of the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky as to the right'to prosecute a joint cause of action,
did not make a case for removal, and, therefore, the state court
did not lose its jurisdiction. To maintain the general proposition that a petition making a case for removal upon its face
is essential to confer jurisdiction upon the United States Circuit Court attention is called to a number of cases decided in
this court: Stone v. South Carolina, 117 U. S. 430; Carson v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

Hyatt & another, 118 U. S. 279; Stevens v. Nichols, 130 U. S.
230; Crehore v. Ohio & Mississippi Railway Co., 131 U. S. 240;
Jackson v. Allen, 132 U. S&27; Graves v. Corbin, 132 U. S. 571.
In these cases the jurisdiction of the state courts was maintained for.the want of an adequate petition showing facts which
required an order of removal. In none of them was involved
the effect of the judgment of a United States Circuit Court
taking jurisdiction upon removal, unreversed and in full force
and effect. That the Circuit Court of the United States may
determine the question of the right of removal is conclusively
shown by the terms of the statute governing the subject. In
§ 3 of the removal act (1 Comp. Stat. 510) it is provided that,
a petition and bond being entered in the Circuit Court of the
United States, the cause shall proceed in the same manner as if
it had originally been commenced in the Circuit Court. And
in § 5 of the act it is provided that the Circuit Court of the
United States may at any tinfe that it appears that it does not
really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, dr that the parties to the suit have been improperly and collusively joined for
the purpose of creating a case removable under the act, remand
and dismiss the same as justice may require. Section 7 of the
act of 1875 (1 Comp. Stat. 512) provides that a Circuit Court,
in any case removable under the act, shall have power to issue
a writ of certiorari to the state pourt, commanding that court
to make return of the record in any cause removed as aforesaid,
or in which any one or more of the plaintiffs or defendants have
complied with the provisions, of the act for the removal of the
same, and enforce such writ according to law.
It is apparent that these provisions are intended to confer
jurisdiction upon the United States Circuit Court to determine
for itself the removability of a given cause, and it has been accordingly held in this court that, notwithstanding the refusal
of the state court to remove the case, the party desiring the
removal may fie a transcript of the record in the Circuit Court
of the United States, and if the case was a removable one it is

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO. v.McCABE.
213 U. S.

217

Opinion of the Court.

immaterial that the state court has denied the petition for removal. Kern v. Huidekoper, 103 U. S.485, and cases therein.
cited. And it was held in Traction Company v. Mining Co.,
196 U. S. 239, that notwithstanding the refusal of the state
court to make an order of removal, the controversy being removable to the United States Circuit Court, that court might protect its jurisdiction by injunction against further proceedings'
in the state court.
In view of these provisions of the statute and the decisions
of this court construing the same we think it was the intention
of Congress to confer upon the Circuit Court of the United States
a right to determine the removability of a cause, independently
of the jurisdiction and determination of the state courts. And
while it is true that when the judgment of a state court is under
consideration it may properly be held that the courts of the
State are not obliged to surrender their jurisdiction until a petition is filed making a proper ground for removal, it does not
follow that, when the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the
United States is invoked, its judgment holding a case removable
and rendering a final judgment therein, can be disregarded by
.the state court where it is properly set up bifore judgment) as
was donein the present case. If this be not so, the state court
may ignore an unreversed judgment of the United States Cir- cuit Court deciding a question of Federal jurisdiction within the
power conferred upon it by Congress, and wherein it was intended
to give to the state court no right to review such action, and
wherein the judgment is binding until properly roversed in this
court, in which the question of jurisdiction can alone be finally
s6ttled, whether brought here from a state or Federal court.
The Circuit Court of the United States having an independent
jurisdiction to determine the removability of the cause, what
is the proper procedure when, as has sometimes happened, the
Federal court differs from the state court upon this question?
This question was dealt with in Railroad Company v. Koontz;
104 U. S.5, 15, wherein Mr. Chief Justice Waite, speaking for
the court, said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

"The right to remove is derived from a law of the United
States, and whether a case is made for removal is a Federal
question. If, after a case has been made, the state court forces
the petitioning party to trial and judgment, and the highest
court of the State sustains the judgment, he is entitled to his
writ of error to this court if he saves the question on the record.
If a reversal is had here on account of that error the case is sent
back to the state court with instructions to recognize the removal, and proceed no further. Such was, in effect, the order
in Gordon v. Longest, 16 Pet. 97. The petitioning party has the
right to remain in the state court under protest, and rely on
this form of remedy if he chooses, or he may enter the record
in the Circuit Court and require the adverse party to litigate
with him there, even while the state court is going on. This was
actually done in the Removal Cases. When the suit is docketed
in the Circuit Court, the adverse party may move to remand.
If his motion is decided against- him, he may save his point on
the record, and after final judgment bring the case here for review, if the amount involved is sufficient for our jurisdiction.
If, in such a case, we think his motion should have been granted,
we reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court, and direct that
-the suit be sent back to the state court, to be proceeded with
there as if no removal had been had. If the motion to remand
is decided by the Circuit Court against the petitioning party,
he can at once bring the case here by writ of error or appeal for
a review of that decision,. without regard to the amount in controversy. Babbit v. Clark, 103 U. S. 606. If, in such a case, we
reverse the order of the Circuit Court to remand, our instructions to that court are, as in Relfe v. Rundle, 103 U. S. 222, to
proceed according to law, as with a pending suit within its jurisdiction by removal."
So far as the case now before us is concerned it is immaterial
that under the act of March 3, 1887, the decision of a Circuit
Court of the United States remanding a case to the state court
is final. Missouri Pacific Railway Company v. Fitzgerald, 160
U. S. 556.

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO. V. MACABE.
213 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Again, speaking for the court on the same subject, in Burlington &c. Railway Co. v. Dunn, 122 U. S.513, 516, Mr. Chief
Justice Waite said:
"But even though the state court should refuse to stop proceedings, the petitioning party may enter a copy of the record
of that court, as it stood on the filing of his petition in the Circuit Court, and have the suit docketed there. If the Circuit
Court errs in taking jurisdiction, the other side may bring the
decision here for review, after final judgment or decree, if the
value of the matter in dispute is sufficient in amount.'
From these decisions it is apparent that, while the petitioner,
in the event of an adverse decision, in the state court, may remain in that court, and after a final judgment therein bring the
case here for review, he -is
not obliged to do so. He may file
the record in the Circuit Court of the United States, as was said
by Mr. Chief Justice Waite, while the case is going on in the
state court. The Federal statute then gives to the United
States Circuit Court jurisdiction to determine the question of
removability, and it has the power, not given to the state court,
to protect its jurisdiction, notwithstanding § 720 of the Revised
Statutes, by an injunction against further proceedings in the
state courts. TractionCompany v. Mining Company, 196 U. S.
239.
In order to prevent unseemly conflict of jurisdiction it would
seem that the state court in such cases should withhold its
further exercise of jurisdiction until the decision of the Circuit
Court of the United States is 'reviewed in this court. If the
Federal jurisdiction is not sustained the case will be remanded
with instructions that it be sent back to the state court as if no
removal had been had. Railroad Company v. Koontz, supra.
Conceding that, except for the principle of comity, the state
court may decide the question of jurisdiction for itself, in the
absence of an injunction from the Federal court in aid of its
own jurisdiction, or a writ of certiorari requiring the state court
to surrender the record under the act of 1875, is the state court
obliged to give effect to the judgment, of the United States Cir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

cuit Court, from which no writ of error is taken, and rendered
in the Federal court after it has sustained its own jurisdiction
and refused to remand the action?
In view of the fact that the question is a Federal one, and
that the state court is given no right to review or control the
exercise of the jurisdiction of the Federal court, we think that
such Federal judgment cannot be ignored in the state court as
one absolutely void for want of jurisdiction, and that such judgment, until reversed by a proper proceeding in this court, is
binding upon the parties; and must be given force when set up
in the action. This view is sustained in the former decisions
of this court upon the subject. In Des Moines NavigationCompany v. Iowa Homestead Company, 123 U. S. 552, this court
considered the effect of a judgment rendered in the Federal
court upon removal from the state court. In that case it appeared that the Federal court ought not in fact to have taken
jurisdiction, for it appeared upon the face of the record that
some of the defendants who did not join in the- petition for
removal were citizens. of the same State as the plaintiff. The
state court of Iowa refused to give effect to the judgment
of the Federal court, and its judgment was reversed. Mr.
Chief Justice Waite, speaking for the court, said (123 U. S.
559):
"Whether in such a case the suit could be removed was a
question f6r the ,Circuit Court to decide when it was called on
to take jurisdiction. If it kept the case when it ought to have
been remanded, or if it proceeded to adjudicate on matters in
dispute between two citizens of Iowa, when it ought to have
confined itself to those between the citizens of Iowa and the
citizens of New York, its final decree in the suit could have been
reversed, on appeal, as erroneous, but the decree would not
have been a nullity. To determine whether the suit was removable in whole or in part or not, was certainly within the power
of the Circuit Court. The decision of that question was the
exercise- and the rightful exercise of jurisdiction, no matter
whether in favor of or against taking the cause. Whether its

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO. v. McCABE.
213 U. S.

221

Opinion of the Court.

decision was right, in this or any other respect, was to be finally
determined by this court on appeal."
In Dowell v. Applegate, 152 U. S. 327, the benefit of a judgment in the Circuit Court of the United States was claimed.
That judgment was the basis of a conveyance to the plaintiff
in error, and it was contended that the conveyance was void,
inasmuch as the Federal court had no jurisdiction of the suit in
which the sale was ordered. It was held in this court that even
if the Federal court erred in assuming or retaining jurisdiction
of the suit, its decree being unmodified and unreversed, could
not be treated as a nullity. After citing previous decisions of
this court, the court, speaking through Mr. Justice Harlan, said
(152 U. S. 340):
"These cases establish the doctrine that, although the presumption in every stage of a cause in a Circuit Court of the
United States is that the court iswithout jurisdiction unless
the contrary affirmatively appears from the record, Bors v.
Preston, 111 U. S. 252, 255, and the authorities there cited, yet,
if such jurisdiction does not so appear, the judgment or final
decree cannot, for that reason, be collaterally attacked, or
-treated as a nullity.
"These authorities, above cited, it is said, do not meet the
present case, because the ground on which, it is claimed, the
Federal court assumed jurisdiction was insufficient in law to
make this case one arising under the laws of the United States.
But that was a question which the Circuit Court of the United
States was competent to determine in the first instance. Its
determination of it was the exercise of jurisdiction. Even if
. that court erred in entertaining jurisdiction, its determination
of that matter was conclusive upon the parties before it, and
could not be questioned by them, or either of them, collaterally,
or otherwise than on writ of error or appeal to this court."
Applying these principles to the case at bar, we think the
state court erred in refusing to give effect to the judgment set
up in the answer offered in the state court. When the application for removal was made in the state Circuit Court that court

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

held the case removable, and the record was filed in the Federal
court. Afterwards that court, upon the application of the plaintiff, refused to remand the suit, and proceeded to a final determination thereof, and rendered judgment accordingly.
It is not necessary to determine whether the case was removable or not. The Federal court was given jurisdiction to determine that question, it did determine it, and its judgment was
conclusive upon the parties before it, until reversed by a proper
proceeding in this court. Instead of bringing the case here the
plaintiff proceeded in the state court, and. that court denied
effect to the Federal judgment. The plaintiff in error lost no
right when thus compelled to remain in the state court, notwithstanding the Federal judgment in his favor, and brought the
suit here by writ of error to the final judgment of the state court,
denying his right secured by the Federal judgment. It was
open to the plaintiff to bring the adverse decision of the Federal
court on the question of jurisdiction to this court for review.
This course was not pursued, but the action proceeded in the
state court evidently upon the theory that the judgment of the
Federal court was a nullity if it had erred in taking jurisdiction.
For the reasons stated we think this hypothesis is not maintainable.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky is reversed
and the cause is remanded for further pr6ceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Dissenting: MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA.

