OCTOBER TERM, 1908,
Syllabus.

213 U. S.

THE UNITED STATES ex rel. THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE AND
'HUDSON COMPANY.
SAME v. ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY.
SAME v. CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY OF NEW
JERSEY..
SAME v. DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA AND WESTERN
RAILROAD COMPANY.
SAME v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
SAME v. LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
THE

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANT, v. DELAWARE
AND HUDSON COMPANY.
SAME v. ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY.
SAME v. CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY OF NEW
...JERSEY.
SAME v. DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA AND WESTERN
RAILROAD COMPANY.
SAME v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
SAME v. LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPE+LS FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Nos. 559, 560, 561, 562, 563, 564, 505, 566, 567, 568, 569, 570. Argued
J~nuary 19, 20, 1909.-Decided May 3,1909.

Although a limitation to its operation might be reasonable and thus
assuage the radical r~sults of a prohibitory statute, if it is not expressed in the. sta ute) to engraft such a limitation would be pure,

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 367
313 U. S.

Syllabus.

judicial legislation. In construing the commodities clause of the Hepburn Act the suggestion of the Government to limit its application to
commodities while in the hands of a carrier or its first vendee, and, as
thus construed, extend the indirect interest prohibition to commodities belonging to corporations the stock whereof is owned in whole or
in part by the carrier, or those which had been mined, manufactured
or produced by the carrier prior to the transportation, cannot be accepted.
The duty of this court in construing a statutewhich is reasonably susceptible of two coistructions, one of which would render it unconstitutional and the other valid, to adopt that construction which
saves its constitutionality (Knights Templar Indemnity Co. v. Jarman,
187 U. S. 197) includes the duty of avoiding a construction which
raises grave and doubtful constitutional questions if the statute can
be reasonably construed so as to avoid such questions. Harriman v.
Interstate Com. Comm., 211 U. S. 407.
This rule applied to the commodities clause of the Hepburn Act so as
to avoid deciding the constitutional questions which would arise if
the clause were construed so as to prohibit the carrying of commodities owned by corporations of which the carrier is a shareholder, or
which it had mined, manufactured or produced at some time prior
to the transportation.1
1The grave constitutional questions which the court could not have
avoided answering by adopting the construction contended for by the
Government are as follows (see p. 406, post):
1. Whether the power of Congress to regulate commerce embraces
the authority to control or prohibit the mining, manufacturing, production or ownership of an article or commodity, not because of some
inherent quality of the commodity, but simply because it may become
the subject of interstate commerce.
2. If the right to regulate commerce does not thus extend, can it be
impliedly made to embrace subjects which it does not control, by forbidding a railroad company engaged in interstate commerce from carrying lawful articles or commodities because, at some time prior to the
transportation, it had manufactured, mined, produced oi owned them,
etc.?
Also as necessarily involved in the determination of the foregoing
questions:
a. Did the adoption of the Constitution and the grant of power to
Congress to regulate commerce have the effect of depriving the States
of the authority to endow a carrier with the attribule of producing as.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

213 U. S.

Where ambiguity exists it is -theduty of a court construing a statute to
restrain the wider and doubtful provisions so as to make them accord
with the narrow and more reasonable provisions and thus harmonize
the statute.
A prohibitionin an act of Congress will not be extended to include a
subject where the extension raises grave constitutional questions as
to the power of Congress, where one branch of that body rejected an
amendment specifically including such subject within the prohibition.
In the construction of a statute the power of the lawmaking body to
enact it, and not the consequences resulting from the enactment is the
criterion of constitutionality.
The provision contained in the Hepburn Act approved June 29, 1906,
c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, commonly called the commodities clause, does
not prohibit a railway company from moving commodities in interstate commerce because the company has manufactured, mined or
produced them, or owned them in whole or in part or has had an
interest direct or indirect in them, wholly irrespective of the relation
or connection of the carrier with the commodities at the time of transportation.
The provision of the commodities clause relating to interest, direct or
indirect, does not embrace an interest which a carrier may have in a
producing corporation as the result of the ownership by the carrier
of stock in such corporation provided the corporation has been organized in good faith.
Rejecting the construction placed by the Government upon the commodities clause, it is decided that that clause, whem all its provisions
are harmoniously construed, has solely for its object to. prevent
carriers engaged in interstate commerce from being associated in
well as transporting particular commodities, a power which the States
from the beginning have freely exercised, and by the exertion of which.
governmental power the resources of the several States have been developed, their enterprises fostered, and vast investments of capital'
have been made possible?
b. Although the Government of the United States, both within its
spheres of national and local legislative power, has in the past for public purposes, either expressly or impliedly, authorized the manufacture,
mining, production and carriage of commodities by one and the same
railway corporation, was the exertion of such power beyond the scope
of the authority of Congress, or, what is equivalent thereto, was its
exercise but a mere license, subject at any time to be revoked and completely destroyed by means of a.regulation of commerce?

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 369
213 U.S.

Syllabus.

interest at the time of transportation with the commodities transported, and it therefore only prohibits railroad companies engaged
in interstate commerce from transporting in such commerce commodities under the following circumstances and conditions:
a. When the commodity has been manufactured, mined or produced
by a railway company or under its authority and at the time of
transportation the railway company has not in good faith before
the act of transportation parted with its interest in such commodity;
b. When the railway company owns the commodity to be transported
. in whole or in part;
c. When the railway company at the time of transportation has an
interest direct or indirect in a legal sense in the commodity, which
last prohibition does not apply to commodities manufactured,
mined, produced, owned, etc., by a corporation because a railway
company is a stockholder in such corporation. Such ownership
of stock in a producing company by a railway company does not
cause it as owner of the stock to have a legal interest in the commodity manufactured, etc., by the producing corporation.
As thus construed the commodities clause is a regulation of commerce
inherently within the power of Congress to enact. New Haven Railroad v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 200 U. S. 361. The contention that the clause if applied to preexisting rights will operate.
to take property of railroad companies and therefore violate the due
process provision of the Fifth Amendment, having been based upon
the assumption that the clause prohibited and restricted in accordance with the construction which the Government gave that clause
is not tenable as to the act as now construed which merely enforces a
regulation of commerce by which carriers are compelled to dissociate
themselves from the products which they parry and does not prohibit where the carrier is not associated with the commodity carried.
The constitutional power of Congress to make regulations for interstate
commerce is not limited by any requirement that the regulations,
should apply to all commodities alike, nor does an exception of one
commodity from a general regulation of interstate commerce necessarily render a statute unconstitutional as discriminating between
carriers; and the exception of timbder in the commodities clause of
the Hepburn Act does not render the act unconstitutional, nor can
the question of the expediency of such an exception affect the question of power.
Where, as in this instance, the provision for penalties is separable from
the provisions for regulations, the court will not consider the question of the constitutionality of the penalty provisions in a suit brought
VOL. ccxiii-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the United States.

213 U. S.

by the Government to enjoin carriers from violating the regulations
and in which no penalties are sought to be recovered.
As the construction now given the act differs widely from the construction which the Government gave to the act and which it was the purpose of these suits to enforce, it is not necessary in reversing and remanding, to direct the character of decrees which shall be entered,
but simply to reverse and rqmand the case with directions to enforce
and apply the statute as it is now construed.
Although the Delaware and Hudson Company may originally have
been chartered principally for mining purposes, as it is now engaged
as a common carrier by rail in the transportation of coal in the channels of interstate commerce, it is a railroad company within the purview of the commodities clause and is subject to the provisions of
that clause as they are now construed.
164 Fed. Rep. 215, reversed.

THE facts which involve the constitutionality and construction of the commodities clause of the Hepburn Act, § 1,
c. 3591, act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, are stated in the
opinion.'
The Attorney General and The Solicitor General, with whom
Mr L. Allison Wilmer and Mr. Thomas C. Spelling were on
the brief, for the United States:
The question of the reasonableness of a statute is for the
legislature, but the clause in question is a reasonable exercise
of the power of Congress.
If a statute pertains to a subject exclusively, committed to
Congress, the statute is within the scope of constitutional power;.

this statute is within the scope of power conferred by the Con1 "From and after May first, nineteen hundred and eight, it shall be
unlawful for any railroad company to transport from any State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, to any other State, Territory, or the
District of' Columbia, or to any foreign country, any article or commodity, other than timber and the manufactured products thereof, manufactured, mined, or produced by it, or under its authority, or which it
may own in whole or in part, or in which it may have any interest direct
or indirect except such articles or commodities as may be necessary and
intended for its use in the conduct of its business as a common carrier."

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 371
213 U.S.

Argument for the United States.

stitution. The Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, 357; Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197, 344; The Daniel
Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 566.
Congressional non-action lends no color of authority or validity to state regulations of anything properly pertaining to interstate commerce. Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 109, 110122; Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 216,"
229, 232; Crandall v. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35, 48, 49; Houston v.
Moore, 5 Wheat. 23; Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204
U. S. 364, 386. When the Federal power has been exercised,
it is, by the express terms of the Constitution, the exercise of
the supreme will, and the state regulation must, in so far as
there is a conflict, give way. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196,
199; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 422; Asbell v. Kansas,
209 U. S. 251, 254; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S.100, 109; Houston
v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1, 23; Brown v. Maryland, 12 Pet. 446;
Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Pet. 448, 510, 511; New York v. Miln,
11 Pet. 102, 157-159.
Not even a State, still less one of its artificial creations, can
stand in the way of the enforcement of an act of Congress constitutionally passed under its authority to regulate commerce.
Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197, 333;
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 427, 429; 432, 436; Cohens
v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 385, 414.
Corporations created by the States are as much subordinate
to the powers of Congress, in the regulation of interstate commerce, as if they had been created by acts of Congress. Hale
v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 75.
If a State can by the creation of a corporation and by conferring upon the corporation certain powers forestall the operation of subsequent Federal laws before their enactment, the
provision in the Constitution that laws made pursuant to its
provisions shall be the supreme law of the land, may be at any
time nullified. See Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204
U. S.364; Hendersonv. Mayor of New York, 92 U. S. 259, 272;
Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S.471.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the United States.

213 U. S.

The prohibitions contained in this statute do not prevent
its constituting legislation which Congress may enact under
the commerce clause of the Constitution.
Congressional power over commerce among the States is
analogous to the same power over foreign commerce. Crutcher
v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 57; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622,630;
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 192.
The recognized powers as to foreign commerce, such as laying an embargo as to products of other nations in a time of
peace, and the power to forbid and punish introductions of
coins of foreign nations, illustrate Congressional power to forbid transportation of commodities from State to State, under
circumstances requiring such prohibition in the national interest. United States v. Marigold, 9 How. 560, 566.
Interstate railroads are peculiarly subject to regulation, by
reason of their performance of public functions and duties.
They are vested with public rights to enable them to serve
public interests as common carriers, and Congress has the power
to divorce their public duties as such public servants from their
private interest in carrying their own products. New Haven
R. R. v. Interstate Com. Comm., 200 U. S. 361; Cherokee Nation v..South Kansas R. R. Co., 135 U. S. 657.
The question of the reasonableness or of the wisdom of the
enactment is not for the courts but for the legislature. Silz
v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31, 40; State v. Hyman, 98 Maryland,
618, 619; City of Baltimore v. Radecke, 49 Maryland, 217, 229,
230.
Arguments ab inconvenienti are not to be considered unless
the language of the act be ambiguous. Ex parte Kearney, 7
Wheat. 38, 44; Beardstown v. Virginia, 76 Illinois, 34; Greencastle v. Black, 5 Indiana, 557; Smith v. Thursby, 28 Maryland,
244; Henshaw v. Foster, 9 Pick. (Mass.) 312, 316; Gage v. Currier, 4 Pick. (Mass.) 399.
The courts are not at liberty to declare an act void because
in their opinion it is opposed to a spirit supposed to pervade
the Constitution but not expressed in .its words. Cooley,

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 373
213 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Const. Lim. (5th ed.) 205; People v. Fisher, 24 Wend. 215, 220;
State v. Staten, 6 Coldw. (Tenn.) 238; Walker v. Cincinnati,
21 Ohio St. 14; People v. Rucker, 5 Colorado, 455; Commonwealth v. McCloskey, 2 Rawle, 374.
The presumption is in favor of validity, and only when the
question is free from reasonable doubt will the Supreme Court
hold an act of Congress to be in violation of the Constitution.*
Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509; Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 126.
For protection against unjust or unwise legislation, within
the limits of recognized legislative power, the people must look
to the polls and not to the courts. It would be an abuse of
judicial power for the courts to attempt to interfere with the
constitutional discretion. of the legislature. Covington Bridge
Case, 105 U. S. 470, 482; The Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321 . Joint
Traffic Association Case, 171 U. S. 505, 573; Northern Securities
Case, 193 U. S. 337; Beebe v. State, 6 Indiana, 501, 528; Johnston
v. Commonwealth, 1 Bibb, 6D3; Flint River Steamboat Co. v.
Foster, 5 Georgia, 194; State v. Kruttschnitt, 4 Nevada, 178;
Walker v. Cincinnati,21 Ohio St. 14; Hills v. Chicago, 60 Illinois,
86; Ballentine v. Mayor &c., 15 Lea, 633; State v. Traders' Bank,
6 So. Rep. 582.
If power exists, it is to be assumed that legislative discretion
has been properly exercised. Cooley, Const. Lim. (6th ed.,) 220;
People v. Lawrence, '36 Barb. 177; People v. N. Y. Cent. R. Co.,
34 Barb. 123; Baltimore v. State, 15 Maryland, 376; Goddin v.
Crump, 8 Leigh, 154; Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703.
The prevention of monopoly has long been a legitimate object of legislation. Pearsall v. Great Northern R. R. Co., 161
U. S. 646, 676; Northern Securities Case, 193 U. S. 341. Far
stronger reasons, referable to a well-founded fear of monopoly,
exist for prevention of a union of ordinary occupations, such
as trading and producing, with transportation, by railroad
corporations, than can be urged against consolidations such
as were forbidden in the Northern Securities Case.
The term "commerce," as used in the Constitution, embraces the instrumentalities by which commerce is carried on.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the United States.

213 U. S.

Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197; Railroad Co. v. Fuller, 17 Wall. 500,.508; Pensacola Tel. Co. v.
Western Union Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1; Gloucester Ferry Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 114 U. S.196, 203. When a railroad is engaged,
as are the roads owned by the defendants, in interstate commerce, it is necessarily an instrumentality of interstate commerce. When, therefore, they entered into such combinations
as are shown in this case, such restrictive arrangements gave
them the esential character of 'contracts, @ombinations, or
conspiracies in restraint of trade or commerce, whereby the
defendants monopolized, or attempted to monopolize, trade
or commerce among the several States or with foreign nations.
Coxe Brothers & Co. V. Lehigh Valley Railroad Co., 4 I. C. C.
Rep. 468; New Haven R. R. v. I. C. C., 200 U. S. 392, 393;
United States v. Freight Association, 166 U. S.290, 333, 334;
Joint Traffic Association Case, 171 U. S. 577; Addyston Pipe
Case, 175 U. S. 211, 244.
The highways of commerce are, in a sense, the public property of the Nation' and subject to all the requisite legislation
by Congress, which necessarily includes the power to keep
them open and free from any obstruction, and Congress has,
injthis regard, all the powers that existed in the States before
the adoption of the Constitution. Gilman v. Philadelphia,
3 Wall. 713, 724; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564, 586.
These combinations between state corporations, one or more
being. industrial ,and the other a common carrier, would be
amenable to a state law formulated in like terms as the AntiTruAt Act. People y. Chicago Gas Trust Co., 130 Illinois, 294;
People v. North Riv. Sug. Ref. Co., 54 Hun (N. Y.), 377. And
if such combinations interfere with the laws of free competition in interstate commerce, and cannot be effectively dealt
•'with under the anti-trust act, Congress can provide another
and more effective remedy. Sturgis v. Crowninshield,4 Wheat.
122; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4.Wheat. 315; United States V.
Fisher, 2, Cranch, 358, 396; Juilliard'v.Greenman, 110 U. S.
440, 441; In reJackson, 14 Blatch. 250.

UNITED STATES v.DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 375'
213 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

The law here in question does not violate the guarantees of
the Fifth Amendment, nor any other constitutional guarantees. The prohibition of the so-called commodities clause is
not arbitrary as that word is defined in the decisions of this
and other courts. Gulf, Col. & S. F. Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150,
155; A., T. & S. F. R. R. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96; Clark v.
Kansas City, 178 U. S. 114; Tullis v. Lake Erie & Western*
R. R., 175 U. S. 348; Oriet Ins. Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S.
557.
It cannot be said that this statute is on its face a deprivation of life, liberty or property without due -process of law, in
the sense in which the phrase is ordinarily-us*d. It is as
proper an exercise of power under the commerce clause to
forbid, conditionally, shipments of a certain class or description as to forbid discrimination. See Joint Traffic'Association
Case, 171 U. S.571; Addyston Pipe Case, 175 U. S.211., WVhen
the fundamental law has nat limited, either in terms or by
necessary implication, the general powers conferred upon the
legislature, the court cannot declare a limitation under thef
notion of having discovered something in the spirit of the
Constitution which is not even mentioned in the instrument.
People v. Fisher, 24 Wend. 215, 220. To the same effect are
State v. Staten, 6 Coldw. (Tenn.) 238; Walker v. Cincinnati,21
Ohio St. 14; State v. Smith, 44 Ohio St. 348; People v. Rucker,
5 Colorado, 455; Whallon v. Ingham, 51 Michigan, 503; Wooten
v. State, 5 So. *Rep.39; Cochran v; Van Surlay, 20 Wend. 365,
381, 383; People v. Gallagher, 4 Michikan, 244; Benson v.
Mayor &c., 24 Barb. 248; Grant v. Courter, 24 Barb. 232.1
The clause does not violate the provision that no person
shall be deprived of property without due process of lalk.
When it is claimed that a legislative act is inhibited by the due
process clause, as applied to property, there must bb4an interest amounting to a vested right of property. If a% ight
claimed is not of that character, then it is merely ar nhoate
right-a privilege. .Rigl~ts are vested when the nigh to enjoyment, present or prospective, has become the property of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the United States.

213 U.S.

some particular person or persons, as a present interest. 8
Cyc. L. & Proc., 894; Cooley, Const. Lim. 438, 465; Pearsall v.
Great Northern.R. R. Co., 161 U. S. 646, 673. No right can be
vested as a result of action which invades the domain of congressional power to regulate commerce, whether Congress has
already acted or yet withholds action on the subject. Cooley,
Const. Lim. (6th ed.) 437, 438; Fitzgerald v. Grand Trunk
R. R. Co., 63 Vermont, 169; S. C., 13 L. R. A. 70; Union Bridge
Case, 204 U. S. 364.
,Retrospective Federal laws, unless ez post. facto,, are not
within the due process clause or any other prohibition of the
Constitution, however repugnant to the principles of sound
legislation. Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445; Charles
River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420; Satterlee v. Mathewson, 2 Pet. 380; Bonaparte v. Camden, Baldw. 205; S. C., Fed.
Cas. No. 1617; Bennett v. Baggs, Baldw. 60; S. C., Fed. Cas.
No. 1319; Albee v. May, 2 Paine, 74; S. C., Fed. Cas. No. 134.
No valid argument can be based upon long acquiescence in
the use made of their coal lands and their output by the railroads on the part of the United States; for no estoppel can be
asserted against constitutional legislation. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677, 689-;*Union Bridge
Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364; Bridge Company v. United
States, 105 U. S. 470.
Not only is the Government not barred by acquiescence in
what the defendants have done, whether with or without
state authority, but Congress couid not have bartered away
or estopped itself to exercise any of its constitutional powers.
Monongahela Nay. Co. v. Coons, 6 W. & S. (Pa.) 101; Susquehanna Canal Co. v. Wright, 9 W. & S. (Pa.) 9; New'York &
Erie Railroad Co. v. Young, 33 Pa. St. 175; McKeen v. Delaware Canal Co., 49 Pa. St. 424; Freeland v.,Pennsylvania Railroad, 66 Pa. St. 91; Bailey v. Phil., Wilm. & Balt. Railroad, 4
Harr. (Del.) 389; Rundle v. Del. & Raritan Canal Co., 14 How.
80.
The clause coes not violate the provision that private' prop-

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 377
213 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

erty shall not be taken for public use without just compensation. See Union Bridge Co..v. United States, 204 U. S. 364;
Cooley, Const. Lirn. (6th -ed.) 473.
The commodities clause is not open to the objection that the
penalties imposed for violations thereof are of such magnitude
and so unduly excessive and extortionate as to be substantially
destructive of the property and franchises of the carriers affected'
thereby, nor does it, in respect to such carriers, constitute a
denial of the equal protection of the law. Cooley, Const. Lim.
402; Coffey v. Harlan County, 204 U. S.659, 665.
The clause does not give a preference to the ports of one
State over those of another, contrary to Art. I, § 9, clause 6 of
the Constitution. Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209
U. S.56, 80; and see also Pennsylvania v. Bridge Co., 18 How.
421,435.
The clause does not deny full faith and credit to the public
acts of a State contrary to Art. IV, § 1 of the Constitution.
This clause did not confer any power or jurisdiction upon the
States, but merely assured the recognition of their acknowledged jurisdiction over persons and things within the respective
territory of each of them. Story, Const., § 1313; Bissell v.
Briggs, 9 Massachusetts, 462, 467; Shunway v. Stillman, 4
Cowen, 292; Borden v. Fitch, 15 Johns. 121; Story, Confl. of
Laws, § 609; McElmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet. 312; D'Arcy v.
Ketchum, 11 How. (U. S.) 165. The States of New York and
Pennsylvania could no more diminish or increase or forestall
Federal regulation of interstate commerce than they could
bind the Nation by a treaty with a foreign government, or by a
declaration of war against a friendly nation.
The clause does not deny persons any privileges or immunities of citizens of the States contrary to Art. IV, § 2, subd. 1,
of the Constitution.
A corporation acquires by its charter no extraterritorial
powers, immunities, or privileges, even if it were clear that this
constitutional provision was intended to apply to corporations.
In lact this constitutional provision has been always held a

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the United States.

213 U. S.

prohibition against state, and not against Federal, action,
though there is nothing in this statute or in the record rendering
the question relevant.
The clause does not invade the reserved rights of the people
or of the States contrary to the Ninth and Tenth Amendments
or any other provisions of the Constitution, nor does it deprive
any person of any right of property or other right secured by
§ 2 of Art. IV, or by the Fifth, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth or Fourteenth Amendment, or by any other Amendment or provision
of the Constitution.
This objection is yet another form of saying that the people
have never conferred upon Congress the power to enact the
commodities clause, or that it is not on its face a constitutional
exercise of the power to regulate interstate commerce. It is
only where Congressional power is claimed upon an inherent
sovereignty theory, or under the general-welfare clause, that
such an objection can be pertinent, as, for example, in a case
like Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, where power was claimed
for Congrss to interpose in the distribution of the inland waters
of a State for irrigation purposes.
No right not under protection of the prohibitions or guarantees of the Federal Constitution can be set up against an authorized regulation of interstate commerce, even though such
right be given in terms by a state law. If the court finds constitutional authority for the commodities clause then no state
charter can furnish to the defendant any protection or defense
in an action brought for its enforcement.
No relations assumed by individuals, nor rules governing
such relations inter sese, whether made by the individuals themselves or by a State, can stand in the way, where an issue arises
between them and the Government, to prevent the enforcement of a constitutional law. The right of a State to create a
corporation and vest it with certain powers does not carry with
it the right to project either the powers of the State or of the
corporation across state lines, and thus invade the domain of
!interstate commerce, which it is the sole province of Congress

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 379
213 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

to regulate and protect. W. U. Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S.
347, 357, 358.
Each State has plenary local powers over its own territory
and its own corporations. But a State, while exercising state
sovereignty over a corporation of its creation, cannot prevent
or embarrass the exercise by Congress of any power intrusted
to it by the Constitution. Railroad Co. v. Maryland, 21 Wall.
456, 473; Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S.
1.97, 347. See also Brown -v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564; Lottery Case,
188 U. S. 321; Stockton v. Baltimore & N. Y. R. Co., 32 Fed. Rep.
11, 16.
The clause does not impair the obligation of contracts. Without going so far as to say that such obligations as are set forth
in the answers are invalid, notwithstanding the authority and
sanction of state laws, defendants will not be heard to set them
up to defeat a Federal law, passed in the exercise of power
constitutionally conferred. Northern Securities Co. v. United
States, 193 U. S. 197, 347; New Haven R. R. Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 200 U. S. 361; Union Bridge Co. v.
United States, 204 U. S. 364; United States v. Trans-Missouri
Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290; United States v. Joint Traffic Assn.,
171 U. S. 505, 569, 571.
All the defendant companies have an "interest" in the coal
transported, within the meaning of the word "interest" as
used in the statute. The interest of the companies, or any one
of them, may not be a legal interest, but it is none the less real
and substantial. Humphreys v. McKissock, 140 U. S. 304, 312;
Burton v. United States, 202 U. S. 344.
The exception in the statute of "timber and the manufactured products thereof" from the prohibition contained in the
statute, does not render the statute unconstitutional. Connolly
v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, discussed, and distinguished from this phase of the case at bar.
The contention of the defendants that they have no interest,
within the meaning of the clause in question, in the coal trans-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the United States.

213 U. S.

ported by them which is mined and sold by the coal companies
of which they own all, or a large part, or some part, of the
capital stock, is wholly without force. The same is true of
the assertion of the Delaware and Hudson Company that because of a sale of part of its coal at the mines, it is not the owner
thereof when transportation begins, or at any time thereafter.
Equally without merit is the contention of the Lackawanna
Company that its ownership of capital stock of coal companies
does not constitute an interest, direct or indirect, in the coal
mined by such companies and transported over its lines of
railroad.

The purpose to be attributed to Congress in enacting the
statute, as well as the language of the statute itself, precludes
the view that a legal interest only was referred to. The purpose of the statute, which was to be gathered from the history
of the times and the conditions that were to be remedied, was
to prevent discrimination on the part of railroads engaged in
interstate commerce against the shippers of the-country in the
interest of themselves or persons or corporations under their
control or in which they were interested. The idea of Congress
was to free interstate transportation from the dangers arising from self-interest on the part of the carriers. The temptation to indulge in secret rebating in the transportation of coal
in interstate commerce, and in other favoritism, is as great
where the carrier owns a majority of the stock of a coal mining
company as where it is itself directly engaged in the mining
of coal. In the one case its interest in the coal is direci, in the
other it is indirect, but in both cases its interest is substantially
the same so far as the purpose which Congress may be presumed to have had in view is concerned. Burton v. United
States, 2@2 U. S. 344.
A railroad company has an interest in a corporation or the
property of a corporation whose stock it holds. It is true it is
not such an interest as it can mortgage or assign (Humphreys v.
McKissock, 140 U. S. 304, 312); it is not a legal interest, but
it is none the less real and substantial. See Pullman Car Co. v.

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 381
213 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error and Appellees.

Missouri Pacific Co., 115 U. S. 587, 597; 4 Words and Phrases
Judicially Defined, 396 et seq., and cases there cited.
As to the Delaware and Hudson's claim, it is argued on behalf of that company that the statute should be read as if the
word "or" in the expression "any article or commodity other
than timber and manufactured products thereof, manufactured,
mined, or produced by it or under its authority, or which it
may own in whole or in part," should be read as if it were
"and," so that it would not apply to the transportation by a
railroad company of coal mined by it, but the title to which
had passed from it. Otherwise, it is argued, it would be impossible for a railroad company to transport any coal mined
by it, although title to it may have passed through several
purchasers. This amounts merely to saying that the statute,
as drawn, is impolitic, but the statute is to be given a reasonable construction-to accomplish the purpose of Congress in its
enactment. The interest that a railroad might have in transporting for the vendee, at less than the published tariff rate,
coal mined by it and sold at the mines, is apparent. But ordinarily it would have no such interest in respect to the transportation of such coal for any subsequent purchaser from its
vendee. The latter case would not be within the spirit and
purpose of the.act, although it might'come within its letter.
Mr. John G. Johnson, Mr. Robert W. De Forest and Mr.
Walker D. Hines for defendants in error and appellees. (Mr.
'Johnson and Mr. De Forest for defendants in error and appellees generally,- Mr. Hines for the Delaware and Hudson
Company.)
Mr. Johnson and Mr. De Forest:
The commodities clause is not applicable in the case of carriers who do not own or mine coal, but simply own shares of
stock in coal companies. 'Under the statutes of Pennsylvania
and under the decisions of that State, a railroad company does
not have an interest in the coal because of its ownership of
shares of stock of coal companies. See act of assembly of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendants in Error and Appellees.

213 U. S.

Pennsylvania, approved April 26, 1855 (P. L. 329); Commonwealth v. Monongahela Company, 216 Pa. St. 114; Shepard's
Estate, 170 Pa. St. 323; Conley v. Mathieson Alkali. Works, 190
U. S. 406; Commonwealth &c. v. N. Y., L. E. & W. R.R. Co.,
132 Pa. St. 591; Buffalo Loan, Trust & Safe Dep. Co. v. Medina Gas & Electric Co., 162 N, Y. 67, 76; Saranac & Lake
Placid R. R. Co. v. Arnold, 167 N. Y. 368, 374; Peterson v.
C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 364; Pullman Car Co. v. Mo.
Pac. Co., 115 U. S.587.
The commodities clause is unconstitutional because its penalties are so prescribed as practically to amount to a denial of
an opportunity by railroad companies to obtain a judicial determination of the questions involved. See Ex parte Young,
209 U. S.147; Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S.
595; Chicago Railway Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418, 456.
The commodities clause is unconstitutional because, making
illegal discriminations, it is not due process of law. If the act
is improperly discriminating in any vital part, it is invalid as
to the whole. All the vital portions of an act constituting a
whole, have mutual relation, and any failure in any one vital
part destroys the entire enactment. Non-uniformity cannot
be sustained because sought to be effected under the guise of
a classification of that which cannot be classified. A statute
of the United States, establishing a public policy, in the matter
of uniformity must stand upon the same basis as a statute of
a State. Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 560.
The commodities clause discriminates in three important particulars between different owners of coal, without justifica"tion; between carriers of timber and its manufactured products;
between different classes of common carriers.
The commodities clause is unconstitutional because it forbids a railroad company, obeying every rule of transportation
prescribed by- Congress, to transport an article of commerce
which not only is harmless, but is one of the necessaries of life.
The act is not a-'regulation but a prohibition. In discussing
this proposition, there is no difference between the rights of

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 383
213 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error and Appellees.

an individual and the rights of a corporation. Gloucester Ferry
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, 204. The Lottery Case, 188
U. S. 321, is not an authority sustaining the right of Congress
to pass the commodities clause. In the present case, the article carried is harmful neither to morals nor to health. It is
a necessity of life. The Lottery Case (supSia), quoted from and
discussed. As to what is included in the word "commerce,"
see Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S- 196,
203.
Whilst prohibition of the transportation of articles injurious
to health or morhls is included within the idea of a regulation
of commerce, a prohibition of such transportation, where the
articles are necessaries of life, is not within such idea. A requirement that transportation shall be conducted without
favoritism, or discrimination, and not at excessive rates, is included within a regulation. Congress may forbid contracts
in restraint of trade, because such contracts interfere with commerce and indirectly regulate the same. The Addyston Case,
175 U. S. 211, 226.

Where articlei are forbidden to be transported because the
owner is engaged in the carriage of like commodities for itself
as well as for others, such forbidding goes beyond the province
of regulation and introduces something not within the grant of a
power to regulate, i. e., a condemnation of a duality of ownership and transportation which had resulted from legislation by
the States, in a matter over which they had control. It practically takes away property, or at least destroys the value of
property, vested in its owner by the law, of the only country
which can control it, i. e., the State in which it is located.
Commerce does not result from any grant in the Constitution,
to Congress,,of power to permit or disallow the same, nor from
any permission by Congress. It is an inherent right, possessed
by every citizen. A prohibition, therefore, which does not
regulate the right,, but denies and destroys it, must rest upon
a power different from that granted by a permission to regulate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendants in Error and Appellees.

213 U. S.

The very grant of power to regulate commerce, recognizes
the existence of a right to carry it on, derived from some other,
and independent, source.
The right of property is one secured to every citizen of the
United States, under and against the Government, by the Constitution of the United States. This right, which, as will be
probably conceded, includes that of commerce, is taken away
by the commodities clause. Countless hundreds of millions
of dollars of property values are .destroyed at a stroke of the
Congressional pen, without evidence of the existence of any
necessity for such destruction.
The interstate commerce which is forbidden by the commodities clause is (1) transportation of its own products by a railroad company; and (2) sales by the citizens of one State, of their
property, to citizens of another State, under certain circumstances.
Conceding the right to regulate the transportation in such
way and manner as to compel it to conform to all such reasonable rules as the legislature may prescribe, the right does not
exist to prohibit it where such rules are complied with. Included in this denial, is a denial of the conclusion that duality
of ownership and of transportation, ex necessitate, amounts to
violation of such rules of transportation.
Neither intercourse between the States, involving a carriage
of persons or of property, nor transactions of sale and purchase,
involving a delivery, can be forbidden, unless the person against
whom the prohibition goes, violates some law enacted properly
in exercise of the power to regulate. See Northern Securities
Co. v. United States, 193 U. S.197, 199; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, 196; Adair v. United States, 208 U. S.161; Dobbins
v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S.223, 236; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447; Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S.
727; Chicago Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S.418, 455. Case of
Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S.364, discussed and
distinguished. The case of New Haven Ry. Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 200 U. S. 361, is not an authority in

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 385
213 U. S.

Argument for Defendants, in Error and Appellee.

support of the contentions of the tnited States herein. The
Lse is clearly distinguishable from the case at bar.
Foreign commerce is the intercourse between two countries,
which, often, may be hostile: In determining the extent of,
and limitations upon, foreign commerce, we have recourse to
the law of nations. We find that one nation, for the protection
of its citizens and its property, may put an embargo upon trade
and fetter the intercourse. Were it otherwise, the nation itself
might be destroyed, because of its inability to protect itself
against the danger of unlimited intercourse. When, therefore,
Congress regulates foreign commerce, it regulates something
which has inherent limitations. The nation's protection may
be involved in the exercise of a power, under certain circumstances, to bat all communication. There is no need, and no
right, to forbid the citizens of one State from transferring their
possessions and their persons to another.
The theory of the Government is, that Congress may destroy
the existence, of several branches of commerce, and regulate
what remains.
Domestic commerce is very different in its nature, scope and
extent. It is the intercourse between the citizens of the different
States in the transportation of persons and property from one
to the other. This iutercourse between citizens of the different
States is an intercourse of persons, all of whom are citizens of
a Union, which was largely created in order to bring about
unlimited intercourse, saving only to such extent as it should
be found necessary to regulate the same.
It is a fundamental right of every owner.of property in one
State, to sell it to citizens of another State, and to have the
same, when thus sold,°transported. This right cannot be forbidden by Congress. However the intercourse may be regulated;
such regulation Tnust proceed upon the concession of the inability to deprive, altogether, of the right.
If Congress may forbid commerce between the States in the
sense of transactions in trade in harmless articles, it may forbid
intercourse between persons. It may forbid the carrier to
VOL. ccxiii-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendants, in Error and Appellees.

213 U. S.

transport its shareholders or its directors, because it may be
tempted to give them greater privileges in their carriage.
Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 492; Lawton v. Steele, 152
U. S. 133; Railroad Co. v. Richmond, 19 Wall. 584.
The commodities clause is unconstitutional because it was
intended to violate, and does actually violate, a right reserved
to the States.
Any Federal statute which has for its purpose the destruction of title to property or of the enjoyment of property, title
to which is vested by the law of the State in a third person,.
trenches upon the reserved right under the Tenth Amendment:
United States v. Fox, 94 U. S. 315.
The commodities clause is unconstitutional because, in violation of constitutional restrictions upon the exercise of the
right to regulate commerce, it deprives of liberty and property.
The power possessed by Congress to regulate commerce
must be so exercised as not to destroy the right to dispose of
property, or to make legal contracts concerning the use, or
transportation, thereof.
To forbid a coal company to sell its coal to the citizens of
another' State, or to cause the same to be transported into such
State, is to deprive it of its "liberty," because of the deprivation of the power to use its property, in accordance with its
legal right. McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27; Carroll v.
Greenwich Ins. Co., 199 U. S. 401; Butchers' Union Co. v. Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 746; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S.
678; Monongahela Nay. Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 336;
Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 589.
The commodities clause is unconstitutional because it is in
effect a taking of private property for public use without compensation.
An ownership of coal shares, involves the right to receive
whatever benefit may result from the exercise of powers conferred by the law of the State which incorporated. Practically,
to destroy the exercise of its franchises by the company, is to
take its property as completely as though it was physically

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 387
213 U. S.

Argument for the Delaware &Hudson Company.

seized. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; United States v.
Lynah, 188 U. S. 445.
Mr. William S. Opdyke, Mr. James M. Beck and Mr. Walker
D. Hines filed a separate brief on behalf of theDelaware and
Hudson Company. The first point of their brief relates only
to the case of the Delaware and Hudson Company:
The Delaware and Hudson Company being organized primarily to produce and handle anthracite coal, and possessing
its railroad powers merely as an incident to such primary
purpose, is not embraced in the prohibition of the commodity
clause.. The Delaware and Hudson Company is a corporation
whose railroad powers were granted as an incident to its industrial powers. It is a corporation organized to acquire land
and mine therefrom anthracite coal and supply the same to
consumers, and its railroad powers are incidental to that particular purpose. Clearly the term "railroad company" as
used in the commodity clause does not apply
to every corporation which operates a railroad. There are numerous industries throughout the country which operate, as incidental
to their business, more or less railroad mileage. As to such
mileage these corporations may be charged with the duties of
a common carrier, and as business may be handled on through
bills of lading such corporations would be, with respect to such
matters, carriers subject to the act to regulate commerce.
Yet such corporations could not, in any just sense, be regarded
as railroad companies within the meaning of the commodity
clause. In this class the Delaware and Hudson Company is
included. The legislative history of this company shows that
it is a coal company with incidental railroad functions. Unless, therefore, the expression "railroad company" in the
commodity clause is to be taken as meaning every corporation
of an industrial character which merely as an incident to its
industrial functions operates a railroad, then the clause should
not apply to this appellee. It is perfectly legitimate for an
industrial corporation to promote the efficiency and economy

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the Delaware & Hudson Company.

213'U. S.

of its operations by the construction of railroads when legally
empowered to do so. It would be a superlative injustice to
treat an industrial corporation as a railroad company because
of the operation of a railroad under such circumstances, and
then, because the industrial corporation is so treated as a railroad company, to prohibit the industrial corporation from performing the very transportation functions which 'alone serve
as the inducement to the operation of the railroad.
Another grave reason for not construing the clause to apply
to this appellee is that such construction unnecessarily overturns a deliberate and long-settled policy jointly entered upon
with respect to this appellee by the States of Pennsylvania
and New York. The legislation of those two States with respect to this appellee shows a clear purpose to provide for the
acquisition and mining of coal in Pennsylvania by a corporation formed for that purpose, and to provide further for the
transportation of that coal to the State of New York by the
same corporation. The commodity clause, if construed to
apply to this company, does not merely impair, and to a large
extent destroy, the rights of the individuals who have invested
as bondholders and stockholders in the Delaware and Hudson,
and the rights of individuals who may have contracted with
that company, but the clause utterly nullifies the policy of
the States of Pennsylvania and New York with reference to
this corporation. An act of Congress ought not unnecessarily
to be so construed as to nullify such a policy deliberately
adopted and carried out by two States of the Union. The
original legislation is now irrepealable by either of the two
States.
To apply the commodity clause in this unnecessary manner
to the Delaware aid Hudson is to work a destruction of prop.erty rights of great magnitude, which have existed for nearly
a century. To exclude appellee's coal from the only practical
channel of interstate transportation-is confiscatory, because
largely destroying the value of appellee's coal and coal lands.
To exclude the interstate coal traffic from appellee's railways

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 389
213 U. S.

Argument for the Erie Railroad Company.

is confiscatory, because largely destroying the value of these
railways and equipment. Such confiscation would be unconstitutional. However, even if such unconstitutionality were
not clear, but were merely doubtful, it would be the duty of
the court to avoid an unnecessary construction of the statute
which would develop such constitutional doubts. Harrimanv.
Interstate Commerce Commission, 211 U. S. 407.
Mr. George F. Brownell and Mr. Adelbert Moot filed a separate brief on behalf of the Erie Railroad Company:
It is undisputed that the first predecessor of the Erie Railroad
Company was organized in 1832, and that it is a stockholder
in the Pennsylvania Coal Company which was authorized by a
statute of Pennsylvania, in 1838, to transact the usual business
of companies engaged in mining, transporting to market and
selling coal, with power to purchase or lease coal lands, and to
construct railroads, and that said coal company did acquire
coal lands, develop mines, and enter into authorized contract
relations with defendant's predecessors for the construction of
railroads and the transportation of its coal to market.
The Hillside Coal & Iron Company was organized under a
statute of Pennsylvania in 1869, with similar powers; and into
this coiporation many other coal corporations were afterwards
merged, under the laws of Pennsylvania.
"Solely" to furnish an outlet, by authority of Pennsylvania
and New York, this defendant's predecessors and said coal
corporations, built railroads and mine branches in connection
with said coal companies, to transport their coal to interstate
markets; the railroads so-built being duly authorized, and aggregating, in lines, branches, yards and sidings very expensive
to build in the mountainous country in which they were built,
about 190 miles.
These railroads will be "substantially valueless" if the defendant can no longer haul their tonnage to the usual interstate markets over its tracks, and the mines of these companies
will be deprived of their only outlet to these markets, such

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the Erie Railroad Company.

213 U. S.

interstate markets being substantially their only markets for
their output.
These railroad lines, branches, sidings, and yards, built
"solely" for the accommodation of this coal business, have
little business except such coal business, and that coal business
is of such magnitude that it constitutes over 22% of the entire
freight tonnage of all the railway lines of the Erie Railroad
Company, and brings it over 20% of its revenue for transportation, and to deprive the defendant of such coal tonnage
would greatly impair, and in many cases wholly destroy, both
mines and railways.
The bondholders of this defendant and its predecessors hold
bonds aggregating upwards of $136,000,000 that rest upon
these properties, which will be greatly impaired or destroyed
if the authorized contract and stockholding relations of railroads and mining corporations above described are destroyed,
as they will be if the commodities clause is upheld, and it is
held to also apply to this defendant as a mere stockholder.
This defendant is a minority stockholder in the Temple Iron
Company, some of the coal of which also, reaches interstate
markets over defendant's lines, but defendant has nothing to
do with mining coal, or dealing in it, and is in no way interested
in coal mining except as 'a stockholder" in the three coal
mining corporations named.
Anthracite coal is harmless and necessary fuel, and the investigation of the Anthracite Strike Commission shows there
is nothing unnatural about the present status of the business,
in view of the natuial difficulties encountered, the capital necessary to develop and carry it on, and the authority necessarily
given capital by the State of Pennsylvania, to cause the formation of corporations to develop the expensive coal mines,
and, therefore, the present status of the business' furnishes
no reason whatever for such legislation as the commodities
clause.
The present status of timber lands and lumbering, as compared with coal properties and mining, furnishes no reason to

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 391
213 U. S.

Argument for the Erie Railroad Company.

support the exemption of timber alone from the commodities
clause.
The history of the commodities clause shows that it was
cnacted to prohibit mining according to the laws of that State,
I.b.y corporations of Pennsylvania, by making it impossible for
mining corporations of that State to sell in that State the coal
mined, since the clause, if broadly construed, as the Government
claims it should be, prohibits common carriers from carrying
such coal to interstate markets . upon any terms and conditions
whatever, even for the lawful purchasers and consumers thereof.
The commodities clause not only vitally affects this defendant, and other railroad companies, if it is sustained as to stockholders, but it is vital to the interests of millions of citizens
who are consumers of all necessary Commodities, and also the
stockholders and bondholders of all great industrial corporations, since they can no longer buy or sell the very necessaries
of life without the consent of Congress.
That clause is unconstitutional. because it is contrary to 'the
fundamental and "unalienable" rights of citizens reserved to
them by the Federal Constitution,' by which they have the right
to buy food, fuel, or other harmless necessaries of life, in any
State they please, from anyone they choose, so long as their
purchases are lawful in that State, although it is conceded the
Federal Government can regulate, but not prohibit, the carriage of such necessaries to interstate markets.
Timber is a fuel, and Congress could not make a partial and
unjust law discriminating between purchasers of timber fuel
and purchasers of coal, or between stockholders and bondholders in common carriers owning timber lands and those
owning coal lands, without violating the/' due process of law'
part of the Fifth Amendment, because there is no ground for
exempting timber in the commodities clause, if it should apply
to any fuel At all.
The only possible effect of the commodities clause upon coal
is upon the mining or production thereof, if that clause is literally obeyed, hence it does not regulate-interstate commerce,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

it being a harmless and necessary commodity, but it undertakes to regulate its antecedent intrastate production, contrary to the Constitution and all such precedents.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

We dismiss for the present a contention made by one of the
corporations that it is not a railroad company within the
meaning of that term as used in the statute, which we shall
have occasion to consider, because it is merely a coal company
whose transporting operations are but incidental to its mining
operations. With this contention put aside, it is true to say,
speaking in a general sense, that the corporations, parties to
this record, by means of railroads owned and operated by
them, were engaged in transporting coal from the anthracite
coal fields in Pennsylvania to points 6f market for ultimate delivery in other Statbs. With much of the coal so transported
the corporations had been or were connected by some relation
distinct from the association which was necessarily engendered by the transportation of the commodity by the corporations as common carriers in interstate commerce. While
the business of the corporations, generally speaking, had these
characteristics, there were differences between them. Some
of the corporations owned and worked mines and transported
over their own rails in interstate commerce the coal so mined,
either for their own account or for the account of those who
had acquired title to the coal prior to the beginning of the
transportation. Others, while operating railroads not only
.owned but also leased and operated coal mines, and carried the
coal produced from such mines in the same way. Again, others
of the railroad companies, although not operating mines, were
the owners of stock in corporations engaged in mihing coal,
the coal so produced by such corporations being carried in interstate commerce by the railroad companies holding the stock
in the producing coal companies, either for account of the producing corporations or for persons to whom the coal had been

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 393
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sold at the point of production prior to the beginning of interstate commerce. This, moreover, was, additionally, the case
as to some of the railroad companies who, as we have previously stated, were engaged both in the production of coal
from mines owned by them and in interstate transportation of
such product. All the attributes thus enjoyed by the corporations had been possessed by them for a long time and were
expressly conferred by the laws of Pennsylvania, and, in some.
instances, also by the laws of other States, in which the companies likewise, in part, carried on their business. We insert
in the margin a summary which the court below made concerning the situation of the respective corporations, taken from
the answer or return made by each corporation. 1
Itis admitted, generally, by the defendants, that the allegations in
the bills and petitions, as to their corporate existence, are true, and that
they own or operate railroads engaged in the interstate transportation
of coal from the anthracite region of Pennsylvania. They also admit
that this transportation has been carried on by the several defendants
long prior to the 8th day of May, 1906, and in the case of some of them,
for a period varying from a quarter to more than half a century prior
thereto. In addition to these general admissions, detailed statements
are made by the defendants, respectively, of the character and extent of
the ownership or other interests possessed by them in the coal so transported, or in the lands or mines from which it is produced. It is only
necessary to briefly summarize these statements.
(1) The Delaware & Hudson Company alleges that it direcly owns its
coal lands as it does its railroad; that it was incorporated by an act of the
legislature of the State of New York, April 23, 1823, and was "authorized to construct a canal or water navigation from the anthracite coal
district in Pennsylvania .to the Hudson River in New York; to purchase
lands in Pennsylvania containing stone or anthracite coal; and to employ its capital in the business of transporting to market coal mined from
such lands." That this authority was also expressly conferred by acts
of the legislature of the State of Pennsylvania, between the years 1823
and 1871, and that these acts of the State of Pennsylvania resulted from
the desire and policy of said State to create and foster the industry of
mining such coal and developing the transportation thereof; that under
the. authority. of -these statutes of 'Pennsylvania and of New York, the
said defendant, beginning as early as the year 1825, invested its capital

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

After the first day of May, 1908, the Government of the
United States commenced these proceedings by bill in equity
against each of the corporations, to enjoin each from carrying
in the purchase of a large quantity of coal lands in the State of Pennsylvania and in the construction of canal navigation in Pennsylvania from
the Delaware River to the Hudson River; that later, under statutes of
both States, it invested additional capital in the construction of railroads,
in the State of Pennsylvania, and in the construction and acquisition of
railroads and leasehold estates in the State of New York, for the same
general purpose of transporting coal from the coal lands owned by it;
that it has invested large sums of money, not only in the acquisition of
coal property, but in the erection of structures for mining and terminal
facilities; that some of its coal properties were acquired under leases upon
royalties payable to the lessors for each ton of coal mined, the leases
fixing large minimum amounts by way of rent; that large fixed rentals
are required to be paid, not only for those mining lands but for railroads
acquired for the purpose of transporting coal; that there are three coal
companies whose shares are practically all owned by it, viz., The Northern Coal & Iron Company, The Jackson Coal Company, and The Hudson
Coal Company; that its mining lands thus owned and acquired are located upon or contiguous to the railroads of defendant; that said railroads are the only reasonable, practical, and conveniently available
avenues of transportation whereby the coal by it produced can be transported in interstate commerce, and the coal mined by the defendant and
by said coal companies upon its lines of railroad amounts approximately
to 70 per cent of the entire transportation by it, or to about 4,300,000
gross tons, its daily shipments averaging about 12 trains of 37 coal cars
each; that the coal lands so acquired by the defendant and by said three
coal companies would have little, if any, value, except for the mining of
coal therefrom and its sale as a commercial commodity, and that if it is
deprived, by virtue of the said act of Congress, of the right to transport
said coal, it will be deprived of the only possible enjoyment of its property. It further avers that it is not a "railroad company" within the
meaning of the act of Congress, but that it is a coal company, and that
since the year 1870 it has become, incidentally to its business as a coal
mining company, a common carrier by railroad of passengers and property.
It is further averred, as a special ground of defense by the said Delaware and. Hudson Company, that this said "commodities clause" does
not apply to it because all the coal mined by it upon its own lands, and
upon the lands of the said three coal companies (except as to steam sizes,

LJIbITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 39.5
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in interstate commerce any coal produced under the circumstances which we have stated. At tae same time a petition in
mandamus was filed against each corporation, seeking to acas thereafter stated) "is sold, before transportation thereof begins, by
said company to third persons at the mines in Pelinsylvania from which
such coal has been produced, and that said company does not, at the
time when the same is so transported by it in interstate commerce, own
the same nor any interest therein, direct or indirect, apart from its obligation and rights as a common carrier in the transportation thereof,
and that it carries said coal for the account of the purchaser thereof, who
is the consignor and owner of said coal.
(2) "The answer of the Erie Railroad Company states that it was
originally organized under the laws of the State of New York in 1832;
that it has been reorganized from time to time under mortgage foreclosure; and finally, in 'November, 1895, under a foreclosure sale, it was reorganized under the statutes of New York, whereby it "became the lawful owner of the property, rights, privileges, immunities and franchises
of all its predecessors aforesaid, including the shares of capital stock of
coal companies and of railroad companies, as well as the railroads theretofore held and possessed by said predecessor companies, the railroads
so owned by it and its said subsidiary companies having an aggregate
mileage of over 2,10Qmiles in the States of New York, Pennsylvania,
New Jersey, Ohio, 'Indiana and Illinois;" that the Pennsylvania Coal
Company was created a corporation by the laws of Pennsylvania in 1838,
its charter giving it the right of "transacting the usual business of companies engaged in mining, transporting to market, and selling coal and
the other products of coal mined; "and for that purpose it was given the
power to purchase or lease coal lands in Pennsylvania; also the power
to construct railroads with one or more tracks. In 1853 the said Pennsylvania Coal Company was authorized to extend its railroad to connect
with the New York & Erie Railroad. The right of said Pennsylvania
Coal Company to buy coal lands and build railroad connections was continued by acts of the legislature of Pennsylvania in 1857, 1864, 1867 and
1868; that in pursuance of these various acts of the legislature, the Pennsylvania Coal Company obtained capital, issued stock therefor, acquired
coal lands, developed coal mines, produced, transported to markets, and
sold coal; built and operated railroads, made railway connections as
authorized, and did other like acts to promote the business of supplying
all persons needing the same with anthracite coal. The Hillside Coal &
Iron Company was organized by an act of the legislature of the State of
Pennsylvania in 1869 for the purposes and with powers similar to those

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213.U. S.

complish the same result. Both the equity causes and the
mandamus proceedings were based upon the assumption that
the first section of the act to regulate commerce; as amended
of the Pennsylvania Coal Company.. Under authority of acts of the
legislature of Pennsylvania the said Erie Railroad Company, long prior
to the passage of said amendment to the interstate commerce act, acquired substantially all the capital stock of said Pennsylvania Coal Company, the Hillside Coal & Iron Company, the Jefferson Railroad Company, an#l Erie & Wyoming Railroad Company, 'and a small minority of
the stock of the Temple Iron Company; ahd has pledged the same under
various mortgages, pursuant to which have been issued and are now outstanding bonds for large sums, aggregating many millions of dollars,
which bonds ar6 held by purchasers in good faith and for value throughout the world; that for many-years prior to May 1, 1908, it has been engaged in transporting the coal of said corporations to markets outside
the State of Pennsylvania, many of which can only-be reached from the
railroad. lines of this defendant; that the coal so transported amounts
annually to several millions of tons and constitutes 22 per cent of.the
entire freight tonnage of this defendant, the Erie Company. It also
denies that it is, by reasQn of the ownership of said stock in said companies, the owner in whole or in part, of the boal transported by it in
interstate commerce, or that it has or had any interest, direct or indirect
therein, and therefore has not violated or failed to comply with the socalled "commoiities clause." of the interstate commerce act.
(3) The Central Railroad Compaiy of New Jersey avers that it was
.organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey, and by these laws
was authorized to purchase and hold the stock or securities of any other
corporation, 'of New Jersey or elsewhere, and that it was also so authorized by two acts of assembly of the State of Pennsylvania, one of which,
approved April 15th, 1869, was entitled "An act to authorize railroad
and canal companies to aid-in the development of coal, iron, lumber and.
other material interests of this Commonwealth;" that pursuant to the
authority of these several acts, it hid, long prior'to the said act of Congress, become the owner of a majority of the shares of the capital stock
of the Honeybrook Coal Company and of the Wilkesbarre Coal & Iron
Company, both companies now being merg6d into the Lehigh & Wilkesbarre Company, a large majority of whose shares are owned by it; that
it also owns a minority of the shares of the Temple Iron Company; that
in 1871 it became the lessee of the Lehigh & Susquehanna Railroad, a
Pennsylvania corporation, which it has ever since operated under an
obligation to pay a yearly rental of not less than $1,414,400, .and not

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 397
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and reenacted by the law usually referred to as the Hepburn
Act, approved June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, contained a
provision, generally known as the commodities clause, which
to exceed $2,043,300' per annum; that its gross earnings from the
transportation of coal amounted, for the year ending June 7th, 1907, to
$9,312,268.04, being 48 per cent of its entire freight receipts; and that a
large part of its earnings from freight and miscellaneous passenger traffic
is incident to and dependent upon the operation of the mines and collieries of said coal companies; and that the greater part of its earnings
from transportation of coal comes from its carriage of the coal mined
by the Lehigh & Wilkesbarre Coal Company; and that large sums of
money have been expended by it in extending its lines and in constructions to enable it to transport said coal in interstate commerce.
(4) The Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Railroad Company, like
the Delaware & Hudson Company, admits that it is the owner of coal
lands and mines coal which it sells; that it was organized under an act
of the legislature 7f Pennsylvania in 1849; that all the lines of railroad
owned by it are wholly within the State of Pennsylvania, extending from
the Delaware River, at the boundary line of the State of New Jersey,
in a northwesterly direction across the State of Pennsylvania to the
boundary line between the State of Pennsylvania and the State of New
York, with a branch line extending from Scranton, in the State of Pennsylvania, to Northunberland, in said State. Said defendant also admits
and alleges that, under express authority of acts of the legislature of the
States of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and New York, it, as lessee, now
operates, and long prior to May-lst, 1908, has operated, various lines of
railroad in the two last-mentioned States, by which it has direct traffic
connection with the city of Buffalo and other cities in the said States.
Defendant also admits that for many years it has owned in fee, extensive
tracts of coal land in th-o, State of Pennsylvania; that it has also leased
large tracts of coal land in the said State, and is now engaged, and for
many years last past has been engaged, in mining coal from the lands
so owned and leased by it; that the holding of said lands, whether in fee
or by lease, and the mining, manufacture, and interstate transportation
of the coal therefrom, has been and continues to be, under and by virtue
of the authority of the lawof the State of Pennsylvania.
That in addition to the foregoing, certain coal companies, organized
from time to time under acts of assembly of the said State of Pennsylvania, have been merged into said defendant corporation; that by an
act of the general assembly of the State of Pennsylvania, approved April
15th, 1869, entitled "An act to authorize railroad and canal companies

.398

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

caused it to be illegal for the corporations after May 1, 1908, to
transport in interstate commerce coal with which the railroad
companies were or had been connected or associated in any of
to aid in the development of the coal, iron, lumber, and otler m-erial
interests of this Commonwealth," the defendant was authorized to aid
corporations authorized by law to develop coal, iron, lumber, and other
material interests of Pennsylvania, by the purchase of their capital stock
or bonds, or either of them. The answer of said defendant also alleges
that, by reason of its ownership of said coal lands and coal, and the revenues derived from the transportation of the same to market, it has been
enabled to expend millions in the betterment of its general transportation facilities for both goods and passengers, and give to the public the
benefits of a well constructed and equipped modern railroad.
That by virtue of leases of railroads, to enable it to transport coal in
interstate commerce, it has become bound to pay yearly, in interest
charges, the sum of $5,155,697, and for taxes $1,163,916. That out of a
total of about 8,700,000 tons of coal produced by it inthe year 1907 from
its lands owned in fee and leased, upwards of 6,700,000 tons were transported over its lines of railroad in interstate commerce; that from 40
per cent to 60 per cent of its annual transportation earnings, from the
operation of leased lines, has been derived from the carriage of its own
coal thereover.
That it uses, in the conduct of its business as a9.common carrier, approximately 1,700,000 tons of anthracite coal, of pea size or smaller, annually, and will require more for such use in the future; that to obtain
this coal in these economic sizes it is necessary to break up coal, leaving
the larger sizes, which must be disposed of otherwise; that great waste
would result if it were forbidden to transport to market in interstate
commerce these larger sizes thus resulting.
That defendant's rights to acquire its holding of coal land, its rights
to own and mine coal and to transport the same to market in other
States as well as in Pennsylvania, and its leases of other railroads, were
acquired many years prior to the enactment of the so-called "Interstate
Commerce Act," and of the said amendment thereto known as the "commodities clause."
(5) The answer of the Pennsylvania' R.ilroad Company avers that
it was incorporated under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania April
13th, 1846; that as early as 1871, under authority of two general statutes
of the State of Pennsylvania, it became the owner of all the shares of the
Susquehanna Coal Company, of all the shares of the Summit Branch
Mining Company; and of one-third of the shares of the Mineral Railroad

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 399
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the modes above stated: Except as we have said, in the particular that one of the corporations claimed that it was not
a railroad company within the meaning of the commodities
Mining Company, corporations of the State of Pennsylvania; that since
the last-mentioned year, and up to the present time, it has carried the
coal produced from the mines of the said coal companies, at lawfully

established schedule rates, over its lines of railroad; that approximately
65 per cent of the coal so mined has been carried to destinations outside'
the State of Pennsylvania; that it mines no coal, but that the coal it
carries is mined by the said coal companies, and that it has no interest

therein within the meaning of the said act of Congress, either direct or
indirect; that the most largely producing of the properties belonging to
these coal companies are located either directly upon, or so contiguous
to the system of railroads operated by said defendant, as to render transportation by any other railroads not reasonably practicable.
(6) The answer of the Lehigh Valley Railroad Company states that it
was originally incorporated September 20th, 1847, under the laws of the
State of Pennsylvania. Under the authority of various acts of assembly
of the said State, other railroad and coal companies, prior to the year
1874, have been merged into it, some of which railroads were expressly

authorized to construct railroads and to carry on the business of mining,
transporting, and vending coal. It is also the lessee of railroads in Pennsylvania; that by means of its own and of said leased lines of railroad it
conducts, and for many years has conducted, an interstate transportation of coal; that since 1872, pursuant to authority conferred by the laws
*of Pennsylvania, it has also owned the majority of the capital stock of
the New York and Middle Coal Field Railroad and Cbeil Company, a corporation of the State of Pennsylvania; also the entire capital stock of
Coxe Bros. & Company, a corporation of said State; a minority interest
in the capital stock of the Highland Coal Company; a majority of the
stock of the Locust Mountain Coal & Iron Company; a minority interest
in the capital stock of the Packer Coal Company and of the Temple Iron
Company, all corporations of the State of Pennsylvania, organized for
the purpose of mining coal, some of them more than a half century ago;
that it has constructed lines of railroad and branch railroads and terminal
facilities for the purpose of-transporting to market, in interstate corn-.
merce, the coal of the companies whose shares it owns, and this business
has been conducted by it for many years; that practically said coal can
be transported to market only by its railroads; that the capital stock
of two ofthe coal companies owned by said defendant has been transferred to a trustee, to hold under a general mortgage executed by defend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

clause, they all defended substantially upon the ground that
when correctly interpreted the commodities clause did not forbid the interstate commerce traffic in coal by them carried on.
If it did, the clause was assailed as inherently repugnant to the
Constitution, because the right to enact it was not embraced
within the authority conferred upon Congress to regulate commerce. In addition it was contended that even if, abstractly
considered, the clause might be embraced within the grant of
power to regulate commerce, nevertheless its provisions were
in conflict with the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, because of the destructive effect
which the enforcement of its provisions would produce on the
rights of property which the corporations possessed and had
long enjoyed under the sanction of valid state laws. It was
besides insisted that in any event the clause was repugnant to
the Constitution, because of the discriminatioji caused by the
exception as to timber and the manufactured products thereof.
The cases were submitted on the pleadings, and were heard and
decided at one and the same time. Treating the clause as having the meaning which the Government contended for, the
court came to consider the alleged repugnancy of the enactment to the Constitution. In the principal opinion the subject
ant, under which mortgage bonds to the amount of $23,539,000 have
been issued by said defendant and are now outstanding in the hands of
the public; that the capital stock of Coxe Bros. & Coinpany, Inc., owned
by this defendant as aforesaid, has been transferred and assigned to,.
and is now held by, a trustee under a collateral trust agreement exeeuted
by said defendant, dated November 1st, 1905, for the purpose and upon
the terms expressed in said agreement, a copy of which is annexed to
said answer, and that bonds to the amount of $18,000,000 have been
issued under said agreement and are now outstanding in the -hands of
the public; that said defendant transports.,annually, in interstate commerce, upwards of 7,600,000 tons of.anthracite coal, shipped by the said
coal companies whose stock is owned by said defendant, in whole or in
part as aforesaid, and transports annually for said coal companies, wholly
within the State of Pennsylvania, upwards of 1,500,000 tons; that. nearly
42 per cent of its gross annual earnings of $36,068,431 for the last fiscal

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 401
213 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

was at least formally approached, not for the purpose of deciding whether inherently the commodities clause was within
the competency of Congress to enact as a regulation of commerce, but whether the provisions of that clause were repugnant to the Constitution because of the destructive effect-of its
prohibitions upon the vast sum of property rights which the
corporations were found to enjoy as a result of valid state laws.
In this aspect the issue which the court deemed it was called
upon to determine was thus by it.
epitomized:
"The fundamental and underlying question, however, which
presents itself at the threshold of all the cases for our consideration is whether the so-called commodities clause amendatory to
the act to regulate commerce, passed June 29, 1906, so far as
its scope applies by the universality of its language to the cases
here presentedis in excess of the legislative authority granted
to Congress by the Constitution. This question must be considered with reference to the Constitution as a whole and in relation to the agreed facts of the :several cases. It is therefore
necessary to keep in 'mind the situation as presented by these
defendants, the facts set forth in their individual answers as
above briefly summarized and the relevant industrial condiyear, or $15,010,899, were derived from coal freights, which represented
over 51 per cent of its entire freight tonnage; that the greater part of
its gross earnings from coal transportation was received from the coal
companies whose shares are by it owned'; that the mines and collieries
of said coal companies are all so located in the portions of the coal fields
tributary to its lines of railroad that no means of transporting their
product can be made available; except by defendant's railroads; that the
railroad lines of this defendant have been from time to time extended,
the control of other railroads acquired, and its facilities and equipment
increased at enormous expense, in reliance upon the rights and franchises conferred by the statutes of Pennsylvania aforesaid; that a very
large part of defendant's earnings is derived from the freight and passenger traffic incidental to and dependent upon the operation of the mines
and collieries of said coal companies, and that if said defendant were deprived of the earhings derived from the transportation of the coal of said
coal companies its business could not be continued, except at a net loss
of many millions of dollars per annum.
VOL. CCXIIi-26 •

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

tions which being matters of common knowledge may be judicially noticed."
The situation which it was considered should be kept in
mind for the purpose of passing upon the constitution'al question was thus stated:
"The general situation is that for half a century or more it
has been the policy of the State of Pennsylvania, as evidenced
by her legislative acts, to promote the development of her
natural resources, especially as regards coal, by encouraging
railroad companies and canal companies to invest their funds
in coal lands, so that the product of her mines might be conveniently and profitably conveyed to market in Pennsylvania
and other States. Two of the defendant corporations, as appears from their answers, were created by the legislature of
Pennsylvania, one of them three-quarters of a:century ago and
the other half a century ago, for the expressed purpose that its
coal lands might be developed and that coal might be transported to the people of Pennsylvania and of other States. It is
not questioned that pursuant to this general policy investments
were made by all the defendant companies. in coal lands and
mines and in the stock of coal-producing companies, and that
coal production was enormously increased and its. economies
promoted by the facilities of.transportation thus brought about.
As appears from the answers filed, the entire distribution of
anthracite coal in and into the different States of the Union
and Canada ,for the year 1905 (the last year for which there is
authoritative statistics) was 61,410,201 tons; that approximately four-fifths of this entire production of anthracite boal
was transported in interstate commerce over the defendant
railroads, from Pennsylvania to markets in other States and
Canada, and of this four-fifths, fromr 70 to 75 per cent, was
produced either directly by the defendant companies or through
the agency of their subsidiary ejal companies.
"It also appears from the answers filed that enormous sums
of money have been' expended by these defendants to enable
them to mine and prepare their coal ahd to transport it to any

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 403
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

point where there may be a market for it., It is not denied that
the situation thus generally described is not a new one, created
since the passage of the act in question, but has existed for a
long period of years prior thereto, and that the rights and property interests acquired by the said defendants in the premises
have been acquired in conformity to the constitution and laws
of the State of Pennsylvania, and that their right to enjoyment*
of the same has never been doubted or questioned by the courts
or people of that Commonwealth, but has been fully recognized
and protected by both."
It was decided that, as applied to the defendants, the conmodities clause was not within the power of Congress to enact as
a regulation of commerce. 164 Fed. Rep. 215. A member of the
court dissented and expressed his reasons in a written opinion.
Without adverting to all the reasoning expounded in that
opinion, we think it accurate to say that in a large and ultimate
sense it proceeded upon the assumption that, as the commodities clause provided, to quote the summing up of the
opinion, for "the divorce of the dual relation of public carrier
and private transporter," it was a regulation of commerce, and
as such was within the power of Congress to enact, and when
enacted was operative upon the defendants, and therefore required them to conform to the regulation, even although to do
so might in some way indirectly affect valid rights derived
from prior state legislation.
Judgments and decrees were entered denying the applications for mandamus and dismissing the bills of complaint:
The text of the commodities clause upon which the cases
depend is as follows:
"From and after May first, nineteen hundred and eight, it
shall be unlawful for any_ railroad company to transport from.
any State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, to any other
State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, or to any foreign
country, any article or commodity, other than timber and the
manufactured products thereof, manufactured, mined, or produced by it, or under its authority, or which it may own in

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

whole or in part, or in which it may have any interest direct or
indirect .except such articles or commodities as may be necessary and intended for its use in the conduct of its business as a
common carrier."
The Government insists that this provision prohibits railroad
companies from transporting in interstate commerce articles
or commodities other than the excepted class, which have been
manufactured, mined or produced by them or under their authority, or which they own or may have owned in whole or in
part, or in which they have or may have had any interest, direct
or indirect. These prohibitions, it is further insisted, apply to
the transportation by a railroad company in interstate commerce of a commodity which has been manufactured, mined or
produced by a corporation, in which the transporting railroad
company is a stockholder, irrespective of the extent of such
stock ownership. This construction of the provision rests not
only upon the meaning which the Government insists should be
given to its text, but on the significance of the text as illumined by what it is insisted was the result intended to be
accomplished by'the enactment of the clause. The purpose, it
is contended, was not merely to compel railroad companies to
dissociate themselves before transportation from articles or
commodities manufactured, mined, produced or owned by
them, etc., but moreover to divorce the business of transporting
commodities in interstate commerce from their manufacture,
mining, production, ownership, etc., and thus to avoid the
tendency to discrimination, forbidden by the act to regulate
commerce, which, it is insisted, necessarily inheres in the carrying on by a railroad company of the business of manufacturing,
mining, producing or owning, in whole or in part, etc., commodities which are by it transported in interstate commerce.
The construction relied on is thus summed up in the argument of the Government: "It (tle clause) forbids the carrier,
who owns the mines and sells coal; to transport that coal in
interstate commerce.
. .
This is not trifling with the
question. It states the exact fact and the reality." And, in

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 405
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

accordance with this principle, the insistence in argument is
that it was the dutty of the carrier who owned and worked coal
mines, or who had stock in such mines, or who owned coal, in
order to bring themselves within the law, to dispose absolutely
of all their interest in coal-producing property, in whatever
form enjoyed, and to cease absolutely from acquiring like rights
in the future. It was, doubtless, because of the far-reaching'
effect of this construction upon the enormous property interests
involved which caused the result of the provision to be thus
stated in the argument for the Government: "This is undoubtedly a searching and radical law, and was meant to be
so." True, the Government, in argument, suggests that the
radical result of the statute may be assuaged, without violating
its spirit, by limiting its prohibitions so as to cause them to
apply only so long as the commodities to which it applies are in
the hands of a carrier or its first vendee. But no such limita•tion is expressed in the statue, and to engraft it would be an
act of pure judicial legislation. Besides, to do so would be repugnant to the asserted spirit and purpose of the statute which
lies at the foundation of the construction upon which the Government relies.
Let us as a prelude to an analysis of the clause, for the purpose of fixing its true construction and determining the constitutional power to enact it when its significance shall have
been rightly defined, point out the questions of constitutional
power which will require to be decided if the construction relied
upon by the Government is a correct one.
We at once summarily dismiss all the elaborate suggestions
made in argument as to the alleged wrong to result from the
enforcement of the clause, if it be susceptible of the construction which the Government has placed upon it. We do this
because obviously mere suggestions of inconvenience or harm
are wholly irrelevant, as they cannot be allowed to influence us
in determining the question of the constitutional power of
Congress to enact the clause.
Let it be conceded at once that the power to regulate corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

merce possessed by Congress is in the nature of things ever enduring, and therefore the right to exert it to-day, to-morrow
and at all times in its plenitude must remain free from restrictions and limitations arising or asserted to arisk by state
laws, whether enacted before or after Congress has chosen to
exert and apply its lawful power to regulate; For our present
purposes, moreover, although we may have occasion to examine the subject hereafter, we entirely put out of view all the
contentions based upon the assumption that even, although
the provisions of the clause be in and of themselves lawful
regulations of commerce, if prospectively applied, nevertheless
they cannot be so considered, because of their retroactive effect
upon the rights of the defendants alleged to have been secured
by valid state laws. We further concede for the purpose of the
inquiry we are at present making, although we may also have
occasion to examine the subject hereafter, tha4 the power of
Congress to regulate commerce can be constitutionally so exerted as to compel a railroad company engaged in interstate
commerce to dissociate itself in interest from the commodities
which it transports in interstate commercei, even although by
existing state laws the railroad company may have a lawful
right of ownership or association with the commodity upon
which the regulation operates.
With these concessions in mind, and despite their farreaching effect, if the contentions of the Government as to the
meaning of the commodities clause be well founded, at least a
majority of the court are of the opinion that we may not
avoid determining the following grave constitutional questions:
. Whether the power of Congress to regulate commerce embraces the authority to control or prohibit the mining, manufacturing, production or ownership ofan article or commodity,
not because of some inherent quality of the commodity, but
simply because it may become the subject of interstate commerce. 2. If the right to regulate commerce does not thus
extend, can it be impliedly made to embrace subjects which it
does not control, by forbidding a railroad company engaged in

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 407
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

interstate commerce from carrying lawful articles or commodities because, at some time prior to the transportation it had
manufactured, mined, produced or owned them, etc.? And
involved in the determination of'the foregoing questions we
shall necessarily be called upon to decide, (a) Did the adoption
of the Constitution and the grant of power to Congress to regulate commerce have the effect of depriving the States of the
authority to endow a carrier with the attribute of producing as
well as transporting particular commodities, a power which
the States from the beginning have freely exercised, and by
the exertion of which governmental power the resources of the
several States have been developed, their enterprises fostered,
and vast investments of capital have been made possible?
(b) Although the Government of the United States, both within
its spheres of national and local legislative power, has in the
past for public purposes, either, expressly or inipliedly, authorized the manufacture, mining, production and carriage of
commodities by one and the same railway corporation, was the
exertion of such power beyond the scope of the authority of
Cong.-ess, or, what.is equivalent thereto, was its exercise but a
mere license, subject at any time to be revoked and completely destroyedby means of a regulation of commerce?
While the grave questions thus stated must necessarily, as
we have said, arise for decision, if the contention of the Government, as to the meaning of the commodities clause be correct,
we do not intend, by-stating them, to decide them, or even in
the slightest degree to presently intimate, in any- respect whatever, an opinion upon them. It will be time enough to approach
their consideration if we are compelled to do-so hereafter, as the
result of the further analysis, which we propose to make in
order to ascertain the meaning of the commodities clause.
It is elementary when the constitutionality of a statute is
assailed, if the statute be reasonably susceptible of two interpretations, by one of which it would be unconstitutional and
by the other valid, it is our plain duty to adopt that construction which will save the statute from constitutional infirmity.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

Knights Templars Indemnity Co. v. Jarman, 187 U. S. 197, 205.
And unless this rule be considered as meaning that our duty is
to first decide that a statute is unconstitutional and then proceed to hold that such ruling was unnecessary bejause the
statute is susceptible of a meaning, which causes it not to be
repugnant to the Constitution, the rule plainly must mean that
where a statute is susceptible of two constructions, by one of
which grave and doubtful constitutional questions arise and by
the other of which such questions are avoided, our duty is to
adopt the latter. Harriman v. Interstate Com. Comm., 211
U. S. 407.
Recurring to the text of the commodities clause, it is apparent that it disjunctively applies four generic prohibitions,
that is, it forbids a railroad carrier from transporting in interstate commerce articles or commodities, 1, which it has manufactured, mined or produced; 2, which have been so mined,
manufactured or produced under its authority; 3, which it
owns in whole or in part, and, 4, in which it has an interest,
direct or indirect.
It is clear that the two prohibitions which relate to manufacturing, mining, etc., and the ownership resulting therefrom,
are, if literally construed, not confined to the time when a
carrier transports the commodities with which the prohibitions
are concerned, and hence the prohibitions attach and operate
upon the right to transport the commodity because of the
antecedent acts of manufacture, mining or production. Certain also is it that the two prohibitions concerning ownership, in
whole or in part, and interest, direct or indirect, speak in the
present and not in the past; that is, they refer to the time of thc
transportation of the commodities. These last prohibitions,
therefore, differing from the first two, do not control the commodities if at the time of the transportation they are not owned
in whole or in part by the transporting carrier, or if it then has
no interest, direct or indirect, in them. From this it follows
that the construction which the Government places upon the
clause as a whole is in direct conflict with the literal meaning

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE
213 U. S.

&

HUDSON CO. 409

Opinion of the Court.

of the prohibitions as to ownership and interest, direct or indirect. If the first two classes of prohibitions as to manufacturing, mining or production be given their literal meaning,
and therefore be held to prohibit, irrespective of thd relation of
the carrier to the commodity at the time of transportation, and
a literal interpretation be applied to the remaining prohibitions
as to ownership and interest, thus causing them only to apply if*
such ownership and interest exist at the time of transportation,
the result would be to give to the statute a self-annihilative
meaning. This is the case since in practical execution it would
come to pass that where a carrier had manufactured, mined
and produced commodities, and had sold them in good faith, it
could not transport them; but, on the other hand,: if the carrier
had owned commodities and sold them it could carry them
without violating the law, The consequence, therefore, would
be that the statute; because of an immaterial distinction between the sources from which ownership arose, would prohibit transportation in one case and woo]d permit it in another
like case. An illustration will make this deduction quite clear:
A carrier mines and produces and owns coal as a result thereof.
It sells the coal to A. 'The carrier is impotent to move it for account of A in interstate commerce because of the prohibition of
the statute. The same carrier at the same time becomes a
dealer in coal and buys and sells the coal thus bought to the
same person, A. This coal the carrier would be competent to
carry in interstate commerce. And this illustration not only
serves to show the incongruity and conflict which would result
from the statute if the rule of literal interpretation be applied
to all its provisions. but alsoserves to point out that as thus
construed it would lead to the conclusion that it was the intention, in the enactment of the statute, to prohibit manufacturing and production by a carrier and at the same time to
offer an incentive to a carrier to become the' buyer and seller
of commodities which it transported.
But it is said, on behalf' of the Government, in view Of the
puriose of Congress to prohibit railroad c6mpanics 'engaged in

OCTOBER TERM, 1908..
Upinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

interstate commerce from being at the same time manufacturers, producers, owners, etc., of commodities which they'
carry, despite the literal sense of some of the prohibitions they
should all be construed so as to accomplish the result intended,
and, therefore, their apparent divergence and conflict should
be removed by construing them all as prohibiting the transportation because of the causes stated, irrespective of the particular relation of the railroad company to the commodities at
the time of transportation. This suggestion, however, simply
invites us, under the assumption that Congress had aparticular
intention in enacting the clause, to so construe the clause as to
cause it to be essential to decide the grave constitutional questions which we have hitherto pointed out. On the contrary, as
the prohibitions concerning ownership in whole or in part, and
interest, direct or indirect, are susceptible only of the construction that the dissociation of the carrier with the products
which it transports was contemplated, our duty is, if possible,
to treat the other and apparently conflicting prohibitions as
embracing a like purpose, and thus harmonize the provisions
of the clause and prevent the necessity of approaching and passing upon the grave constitutional questions which would necessarily arise from pursuing the contrary course. This, it is urged,
cannot be done, since to do so would be in effect to expunge the
prohibitions against manufacturing, mining and production
from the clause, as ownership in whole or in part or interest,
direct or indirect, would embrace everything which could possibly have been .intended to be expressed by the terms manufacturing, mining and production if the proposed reconciliation
of the conflict between the prohibitions be brought about.
We'think, however, that a brief reference to a ruling of this
court concerning the effect of the. Interstate Commerce Law,
prior to its amendment by the Hepburh Act, will serve to make.
clear the unsoundness of the proposition. The case referred to
is that of the New Haven Railroad v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 200 U. S. 361. In that case, after much consideration,
it was held that the prohibitions of the Interstate Commerce

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 411
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Act as to uniformity of rates and against rebates operated to
.prevent a carrier engaged in interstate commerce from buying
and selling a commodity which it carried in such a way as to
frustrate the provisions of the act, even if the effect of applying
the act would be substantially to render buying and selling by
an interstate carrier of a commodity which it transported practically impossible. In thus deciding, however, it became necessary (pp. 399, 400) to refer to rulings of the Interstate Commerce Commission construing the act to regulate commerce,
made not long after the enactment of the statute, in which it
was held that where interstate commerce carriers were engaged in manufacturing, mining, producing and carrying commodities in virtue of state charters authorizing them so to do,
granted prior to the enactment of the act to regulate commerce,
that act could not be applied without confiscation, except in so
far as the requirement of reasonableness of rates was concerned. While referring to those administrative rulings, and
declaring that in view of their long standing the construction
which had been thus given to the act should not be departed
from, "at least until Congress has legislated on the subject"
(p. 401), it was nevertheless plainly intimated that legislation
which compelled a carrier, even although authorized by its
charter before the passage of the act to regulate commerce to
engage in the production as well as transportation of commodities, to dissociate itself before transportation from the
products which it manfifactured, mined or produced, would
not, when enforced by proper rules and regulations, amount
to confiscation. When, therefore, the subject of ownership,
in whole or in part, or the interest of a carrier, direct or indirect,
in the product which it transported, came to be considered, and
the duty to dissociate before transportation came to be legislatively imposed, it is quite natural, in view of the prior administrative rulings and the intimations of this court, conveyed
in the opinion in the New Haven case, to assume that the provisions as to manufacturing, mining and production, while
they may be somewhat redundant, were nevertheless expresse-d

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

for the purpose of leaving no possible room for the implication
that it was not the intention to include ownership resulting
from manufacture, mining, production, etc., even although the
right to manufacture, mine and produce was sanctioned by
state charters prior to the enactment of the act to regulate
commerce. Looking at the statute from another point of view
the same result is compelled. Certain it is that we could not
construe the statute literally without bringing about the irreconcilable conflict between its provisions which we had previously pointed out, and therefore some rule of construction is
essential to be adopted in order that the statute may have a
harmonious operation. Under these circumstances, in view of
the far-reaching effect to arise from giving to the first two prohibitions a meaning wholly antagonistic to the remaining ones,
we think our duty requires that we should treat the prohibitions
as having a common purpose, that is, the dissociation of railroad
companies prior to transportation from articles or commodities,
whether the association resulted from manufacture, mining,
production or ownership, or interest, direct or indirect. In
other words, in view of the ambiguity and confusion in the
statute we think the duty of interpreting should not be so exerted as to cause one portion of the statute which, as conceded
by the Government, is radical and far-reaching in its operation
if literally construed, to extend and enlarge another portion of
the statute which seems reasonable and free from doubt if also
literally interpreted. Rathbr it seems to -us our duty is to restrain the wider, and as we think, doubtful prohibitions so as
to make them accord with the narrow and more reasonable
provisions, and thusg harmonize the statute.
Nor is there force in the contention that because the going
into effect of the clause was postponed for a period of nearly
two years, therefore the far-reaching and radical effects which
the Government attributes to the clause must have been contemplated by Congress. We think, on the contrary, it is reasonable to infer, in view -of the facts disclosed in the statement
which we have previously excerpted, that the delay accorded

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 413
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is entirely consistent with the assumption that it was so granted
to afford the time essential to make the changes which would
be required to conform to the commands of the clause as we
have interpreted it, such as providing the facilities for dissociation by sale at the point of production before transportation o.
segregation by means of the organization of bona fide manufacturing, mining or producing corporations.
It remains to determine the nature and character of the interest embraced in the words "in which it is interested directly
or indirectly." The contention of the Government that the
clause forbids a railroad company to transport any commodity manufactured, mined or produced, or owned in whole
or in part, etc., by a bona fide corporation in which the transporting carrier holds a stock interest, howevern small, is based
upon the assumption that such prohibition is embraced in the
words we are considering. The opposing contention, however,
is that interest, direct or indirect, includes only commodities in
which.a carrier has a legal interest, and therefore does not exclude the right to carry commodities which have been manufactured, mined, produced or owned by a separate and distinct
corporation, simply because the transporting carrier may be
interested in the producing, etc., corporation as an owner of
stock therein. If the words in question are to be taken as embricing only a legal or equitable interest in the commodities to
which they refer they cannot be held to include commodities
manufactured, mined, produced or owned, etc., by a distinct
corporation merely because of a stock ownership of the carrier.
Pullman PalaceCarCo. v. Missouri Pacific R. R., 115 U. S. 587;
Conley v. Mathieson Alkali Works, 190 U. S. 406. And that
this is well settled also in the law of Pennsylvania is not questioned. It is unnecessary to pursue the subject in more detail,
since it is conceded in the argument for the Government that if
the clause embraces only a legal interest in an article or commodity it cannot be held to include a prohibition against
carrying a commodity simply because it had been manufactured, mined or produced, or is owned by a corporation in

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

which the carrier is a stockholder. The contention of the
Government substantially rests upon the assumption that unless the words be given the meaning contended for they are
without significance. That this is clearly not the case is well
illustrated by the New Haven case, supra. In that case the
Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company it was shown at one
time not only directly engaged in buying, selling and transporting coal, but subsequently, when a statute was passed in West
Virginia prohibiting such dealings, it resorted to indirect
methods for the continuance of its previous practice. It may
well be that the very object of the provision was to reach and
render impossible the successful employment of methods of
the character referred to. Certain it is, however, that in the
legislative progress of the clause in the Senate, where the clause
originated, an amendment in specific terms, causing the clause
to embrace stock ownership, was rejected, and immediatelyupon such rejection an amendment, expressly declaring that
interest, direct or indirect, was intended, among other things, to
embrace the prohibition of carrying a commodity manufactured, mined, produced or owned by a corporation in which a
railroad company was interested as a stockholder, was also
rejected. 1906, 40 Cong. Rec. pt. 7, pp..7012-7014. And the
considerations just stated we think completely dispose of the
contention that stock ownership must have been in the mind
of Congress, and therefore must be treated as though embraced
within the evil intended to be remedied, since it cannot in reason
be assumed that there is a duty to extend the meaning of a statute beyond its legal sense upon the theory that a provision which
was expressly excluded was intended to be included. If it be
that the mind of Congress was fixed on\the transportation by a
carrier of any commodity produced by a corporation in which
the carrier held stock, then we think the failure to provide for
such a contingency in express language gives riss.to the implication that it was not the purpose to include it. At all events,
in view of the far-reaching consequences of giving the statute
such a construction as that contended for, as indicated, by the

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 415
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

statement taken from the answers and returns which we have
previously inserted in the margin, and of the questions of constitutional power which would arise if that construction was
adopted, we hold the contention of the Government not well
founded.
. We then construe the statute as prohibiting a railroad company engaged in interstate commerce from transporting in such
commerce articles or commodities under the following circumstances and conditions: (a) When the article or commodity
has been manufactured, mined or produced by a carrier or
under its authority, and at the time of transportation the
carrier has not in good faith before the act of transportation
dissociated itself from such article or commodity; (b) When the
carrier owns the article or commodity to be transported in whole
or in part; (c) When the carrier at the time of transportation has
an interest, direct or indirect, in a legal or equitable sense in the
article or commodity, not including, therefore, articles or commodities manufactured, mined, produced or owned, etc., by a
bona fide corporation in which the railroad company is a
stockholder.
The question then arises whether, as thus construed, the
Statute was inherently within the power of Congress to enact as
a regulation of commerce. That it was, we think is apparent,
and if reference to authority to so demonstrate is necessary it
is afforded by a consideration of the ruling in the New Haven
case, to which we have previously referred. We do not say this
upon the assumption that by the grant of power to regulate
commerce the authority of the Government of the United
States has been unduly limited on the one hand and inordinately extended on the other, nor do we rest it upon the hypothesis that the power conferred embraces the right to absolutely
prohibit the movement between the States of lawful commodities or to destroy the governmental power of the States
as to subjects within their jurisdiction, however remotely and
indirectly the exercise of such powers may touch interstate
commerce. On the contrary, putting these considerations en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

tirely out of mind, the conclusion just previously stated rests
upon what we deem to be the obvious result of the statute
as we have interpreted it; that it merely and unequivocally is
confined to a regulation which Congress had the power to adopt
and to which all preexisting rights of the railroad companies
were subordinated. Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209
U. S. 56.
We think it unnecessary to consider at length the contentions
based upon the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.
In form of statement those contentions apparently rest upon
the ruinous consequences which it is assumed would be operated
upon the property rights of the carriers by the enforcement of
the clause interpreted as the Government construed it. For
the purpose of our consideration of the subject it may be conceded, as insisted on behalf of the United States, that these
contentions proceed upon the mistaken and baleful conception
that inconvenience, not power, is the criterion by which to test
the constitutionality of legislation. When, however, mere
forms of statement are put aside and the real scope of the argument at bar is grasped, we think it becomes clear that in substance and effect the argument really asserts that the clause as
construed by the Government is not a regulation of commerce,
since it transcends the limits of regulation and embraces absolute prohibitions, which, it is insisted, could not be exerted in
virtue of the authority to regulate. The whole support upon
which the propositions and the arguments rest hence disappear
as a result of the construction which we have given the statute.
Through abundance of caution we repeat that our ruling here
made is confined to the question before us. Because, therefore, in pointing out and applying to the statute the true rule of
construction, we have indicated the grave constitutional questions which would be presented if we departed from that rule,
we must not be considered as having decided those questions.
We have not entered into their consideration, as it was unnecessary for us to do so.
Without elaborating, we hold the contention that the clause

UNITED STATES v. DELAWARE & HUDSON CO. 417
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

under consideration is void because of the exception as to
timber, and the manufactured products thereof, is without
merit. Deciding, as we do, that the clause, as construed, was a
lawful exercise by Congress of the power to regulate commerce,
we know of no constitutional limitation requiring that such a
regulation when adopted should be applied to all commodities
alike. It follows that even if we gave heed to the many reasons
of expedience which have been suggested -in argument against
the exception and the injustice and favoritism which it is asserted will be operated thereby, that fact can have no weight
in passing upon the question of power. And the same reasons
also dispose of the contention that the clause is void as a discrimination between carriers.
With reference to the contention that the commodities clause
is void because of the nature and character of the penalties
which it imposes for violations of its provisions, within the ruling
in Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, we think it also suffices to say
that even if the delay which the clause- provided should elapse
between -its enactment and the going into effect of the same
does not absolutely exclude the clause from the ruling in Ex
parte Young, a question which we do not feel called upon to
decide, nevertheless the proposition is without merit, because,
(a) no penalties are sought to be recovered in these cases, and,
(b) the question of the constitutionality of the clause relating to
penalties is wholly separable from the remainder- of the clause,
and, therefore, may be left to be determined should an effort
to enforce such penalties be made.
There is a contention as to one of the defendants, the Delaware and Hudson Company, to which we, at the outset, referred, which requires to be particularly noticed. Under the
charters granted to the company by the States of New York
and Pennsylvania it was authorized to secure coal lands and
mine coal, and, without going into detail, was originally authorized to construct a canal, and, ultimately, a railroad for the
purpose of transporting, for its own account, the products of its
mines, and, undoubtedly, vast Sums of money have been inVOL. ccxmi-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HARLANi J., dissenting.

213 U. S.

vested in carrying out these purposes. It is true also that the
company is the owner of stock in various coal corporations.
The claim now to be disposed of is that by the true construction
of its charters the Delaware and Hudson Company is not a
railroad company within the meaning of the term as used in the
commodities clause, but is really a coal company. The contention, we think, is without merit. The facts stated in the
excerpts from the answer and returns of the company, which
we have previously placed in the margin, leave no doubt that
the corporation was engaged as a common carrier by rail in the
transportation of coal in the channels of interstate commerce,
and as such we think it was a railroad company within the purview of the clause and subject to the regulations which are embodied therein as we have interpreted them.
As the court below held the statute wholly void for repugnancy to the Constitution, it follows from the views Which
we have expressed that the judgments and the decrees entered
below must be reversed. As, however, it was conceded in the
discussion at bar that in view of the public and private interests
which were concerned, the United States did not seek to enforce
the penalties of the statute, but commenced these proceedings
with the object and purpose of settling the differences between
it and the defendants, concerning the meaning of the commodities clause and the power of Congress to enact it as correctly interpreted, and upon this view the proceedings were
heard below by submission upon the pleadings, we are of opinion that the ends of justice will be subserved, not by reversing
and remanding with particular directions as to each of the defendants, but by reversing and remanding with directions for
such further proceedings as may be necessary to apply and
enforce the statute as we have interpreted it.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JUsTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

As these cases have been determined wholly on the construction of those parts of the Hepburn Act which are here in ques-

STRONG v. REPIDE.
213 U.S.

Syllabus.

tion, and as Congress, if it sees fit, may meet that construction
by additional legislation, I deem it unnecessary to enter upon
an extended discussion of the various questions arising upon
the record, and will content myself simply with an expression
of my non-concurrence in the view taken by the court as to the
meaning and scope of certain provisions of the act. In my
judgment the act, reasonably and properly construed, according to its language, includes within its prohibitions a railroad
company transporting coal, if, at the time, it is the owner,
legally or equitably, of stock-certainy, if it owns a majority or
all the stock-in the company which mined, manufactured or
produced, and then owns, the coal which is being transported
by such railroad company. Any other view of the act will enable the transporting railroad company, by one device or another, to defeat altogether the purpose which. Congress had in
view, which was to divorce' in a real, substantial sense, production and transportation, and thereby to prevent the transporting company from doing injustice to other owners of coal.

STRONG v. REPIDE.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 110.

Argued March 10, 11, 1909.-Decided May 3, 1909.

Although there is no technical finding of facts by the court'of first instance of the Philippine Islands, if the opinion shows the facts on
which the judgment is based and the courts below differ in regard
thereto they may be reviewed by this court under § 10 of the act of
July 1, 1902, c. 1369, 32 Stat. 691. De la Rama v. De la Rama, 201
U. S. 303.

