UNITED STATES v. MASON.
Syllabus.

213 U. S.

The objection made in behalf of the defendant, that an affirmative answer to the question certified could be used so as to
destroy the constitutional right of trial by jury, is without merit
and need not be discussed. The defendant.,as, of course' entitled to have a jury summoned in this case, but that right was
subject to the condition, fundamental 'in
the conduct o civil
actions, that the court may withdraw a case from the jury and
direct a verdict, according to the law if the evidence is uncontradicted and raises only a question of law.
Restricting our decision to civil cases, in which the testimony
is undisputed, and without qualifying former decisions requiring the court to send a case to the jury, under proper instructions as to the law, where the evidence is conflicting on any
essential point, we answer the question here certified in the
affirmative. Let this answer be certified to the court below.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

dissents.

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 642.

Argued March 5, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.

On an appeal taken in a criminal case by the United States under the
act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, from the ruling of the
Circuit.Court sustaining a special plea in bar, this court is limited in
its review to that ruling and cannot consider other grounds of demurrer to the indictment. United States v. Keiiel, 211 U. S. 370, 398.
Section 5509, Rev. Stat., does not embrace any felony or misdemeanor
against a State of which, prior to the trial in Federal court of the Federal offense the defendants had been lawfully acquitted by a state
ourt having full jurisdiction.*

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

213 U. S.

As the Federal court accepts the judgment of a state court construing
the meaning and scope of a state enactment, whether civil or criminal,
it should also accept the judgment of a state court based on the verdict of acquittal of a crime against the State.
THE facts, which involve the construction of §§ 5508 and
5509, Rev. Stat., are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fowler, for plaintiff in error:
The facts presented in the special plea do not bring the
case within the second jeopardy provision of the Fifth Amendment. This provision applies only to proceedings in United
States courts. The first ten Amendments-operate on the National Government alone. Bar~n V" Baltinmre, 7 Pet.- 242,
246; Liingston v. Moore, 7 Pet. 468, 551; -Fox v. Ohio, 5 How.
410, 434; Smith v. Maryland, 18 How. 71, 76; Withers v.
Buckley, 20 How. 84, 91; Pervearv. The Commonwealth, 5 Wall.
475; 479; Twitchell v. The Commonwealth, 7 Wall. 321, 325;
The Justices v. Murray, 9 Wall. 274, 278; Edwards v. Elliott,
21 Wall. 532, 557; Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90, 92; United.
States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 552; Pearson v. Yewdall,
95 U. S. 294, 296; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S.97, 101;
Kelly v. Pittsburg,104 U. S.78, 79; Presserv. Illinois, 116 U. S.
252, 265; Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131, 166; Brown v. New
Jersey, 175 U. S. 162, 174; Barrington v. Missouri, 205 U. S.
486; Hunter v. Pittsburg,'207 U. S. 176.
The fact that this case is pending in a Federal court does not
make the provision applicable, as the pleas do not set up a
former jeopardy within the meaning of the Constitution. The
legislative and judicial acts of the state governments are entirely distinct from similar acts of the National Government,
.and this Amendment does not apply to any proceeding in a
state court. Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 242, 246. See also
Fox v. Ohio, 5 How. 410, 434; United States v. Barnhart, 22
Fed. Rep. 285, 290; 12 Cyc. Law and Pro. 259.
The same act may constitute an offense against both the
national and state governments and the trial of one offense is

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
213 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

not a bar to the trial of the other. Fox v. Ohio, 5 How. 410,
434,_Moore v. People of Illinois, 14 How. 13, 19; United States
v. Cruikshank,92 U. S. 542, 550; Coleman v..Tennessee, 97 U. S.
509, 518; Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S.371, 390; Cross v. North
Carolina, 132 U. S. 131, 139; Pettibone v. United States, 148
U. S.197, 209; Crossley v. California,168 U. S. 640, 641; Grafton
v. United States, 206 U. S.333, 353; Sexton v. California, 189
U. S. 319.
The offense with which defendants are charged does not
arise out of the same acts as, and is entirely different in its nature from, the offense for which they were tried in the state
court.
Defendants are not in this case indicted for the murder bf
Walker, but for a conspiracy to injure and intimidate and oppress Walker and others in the exercise of certain privileges
secured to them by the Constitution and laws of the United
States. The gravamen of the offense here c1arged is the conspiracy. Rev. Stat., § 5509, does not create a separate offense,
but it only prescribes the punishment that may be inflicted in
case it be determined by the jury that the aggravated copditions mentioned therein existed. As to the relationship between
§ 5508 and § 5509 and the object of the latter section, see Davis,
v. United States, 107 Fed. Rep. 755. See also Rakes v. United
,States, 212 U. S.55; Motes v. United States, 178 U. S.462.
Mr. John M. Waldron, with whom Mr. Reese McCloskey and'
Mr. N. W. Dixon were on the brief, for defendants in error:.
The spirit, if not the letter, of the second jeopardy clause of
the Fifth Amendment inhibits a retrial in the Federal court of
the murder charge contained-in the indictment. "Constitutional
provisions for the protection of person and property should be
liberally construed. Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 635; Ex
parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163, 205.
For cases holding, on a similar state of facts, that the right of
retrial herein does not exist, see Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1;
United States v.- Pirates,5 Wheat. 184, 197. See also 1 Kent's

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

Commentaries, 188; 1 Bishop's Crim. Law (6th Ed.), §§ 985,
984, 1060; 1 Wharton's Crim. Law, § 293; In re Stubbs, 133
Fed. Rep. 1012.
There are several decisions of the state supreme courts which
refuse to recognize a concurrent jurisdiction. The bare possibility of a second prosecution for the same alleged criminal
act is abhorrent to the principles of the common law, as well as
the genius and spirit of American jurisprudence, and dual jurisdiction of state and Federal government to create offenses
against each out of one act should be denied. See Commonwealth v. Ketner, 92 Pa. St. 372, 377; Com. v. Fuller, 8 Metcalf,
313 (Mass.); Harlan v. People, 1 Douglas' Reports (Mich.),
212.
These constitutional provisions here relied on are, in effect,
but declaratory of the maxims and principles of the common
law, and the humane principles represented thereby should be
applied and enforced by the Federal courts, even though the
Federal Constitution was silent upon the subject. Ex parte
Lange, 18 Wall. 163-205; see also State v. Cooper, 1 Green
(N. J.), 375; 1 Chitty's Crim. Law, §§ 452-462.
MR. JUtsTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a criminal prosecution under §§ 5508 and 5509 of the
Revised Statutes. The substantial provisions of each of those
sections were reproduced from the act of May 31st, 1870, c. 114,
passed for the purpose of enforcing the right of citizens to vote
in the several States, and for other purposes.
Those sections are as follows: "§ 5508. If two or more persons conspire to injure, oppress, threaten or intimidate any
citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege
secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the United States,
or because of his having so exercised the same; or if two or
more persons go in disguise on the highway or on the premises
of another, with intent to prevent or hinder his free exercise or
enjoyment of ary right or privilege so secured, they shall be
fined not more than five thousand dollars and imprisoned not

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

more than ten years, and shall, moreover, be thereafter ineligible to any office or place of honor, profit or trust created by the
Constitution or laws of the United States. § 5509. If, in the
act of violating any provision in either of the two preceding
sections, any other felony or misdemeanor be committed, the
offender shall be punished for the same with such punishment
as is attached to such felony or misdemeanor by the laws of the
State in which the offense is committed." Section 5507 prescribes a different offense from that specified in § 5508, has no
bearing on the present case, and need not therefore be given
here.
The first count of the indictment-stating it generallycharged the defendants with an unlawful, malicious and felonious conspiracy to injure, oppress, threaten and intimidate certain named persons, citizens of the United States, in the free
exercise and enjoyment of a right and privilege secured'to them
and to each of them by the Constitution and laws of the United
States, in this, that the said conspirators injured, oppressed,
threatened and intimidated those citizens, in the free exercise
and enjoyment of their right and privilege as special agents
and employ6s of the Department of Justice and as citizens and
agents of the United States, to investigate, discover, inform of,
and report to the proper officer all violations of the laws of the
United States and the evidence relating thereto, in the matter
of the fraudulent and unlawful entry of coal and other public
lands of the United States in Colorado, theretofore subject to
entry under the .laws of the United States. It was further
charged in the same 'count that in pursuance of such unlawful
and felonious conspiracy and to effect the object thereof, the defendants, within the District of Colorado, did kill and murder
one Joseph A. Walker.
The second count differs from the first'only in the particular
that it charges that the alleged congpiracy and murder was
because of the persons against whom the conspiracy was formed
having freely exercised the right and privilege specified in the
first count

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

The third count charges substantially the commission of the
same offense of conspiracy and murder, because of the exercise
by the citizens named of the right and privilege secured to them
by the Constitution and laws of the United Statesto accept public employment from and to enter the service of the United
States as officers, agents and employ6s, and to be secure in their
persons from bodily harm, injury and cruelties, while discharging the duties belonging to them as such officers, agents and
employ~s.
It was stipulated by the parties that the defendants might
file a demurrer to the indictment and to each count thereof, as
well as "a plea in bar in the nature of a plea of former acquittal"
to so much of each count as charged them with the crime of
having killed and murdered one Walker, named in the indictment-the stipulation reciting, "said charge of murder being
based upon § 5509 of the Revised Statutes, and that the filing
of said demurrer shall be without prejudice, in .ny respect, to
the said plea, and likewise the said plea shall be without prejudice, in any respect, to the said demurrer."
The court made an order of record recognizing and giving
effect to the above stipulation. The defendants filed a joint
and several demurrer assailing the sufficiency of each count of
the indictment. In view of the state of the record and of the
conclusions reached by the court we need not set out at large
the vario s grounds of that demurrer.
The defendants filed special pleas in bar of so much of each
count of the indictment as charged that the defendants, in the
act of violating § 5508, killed and murdered Walker for the purpose of giving effect to the alleged conspiracy. To each special
plea the Government filed a demurrer.
The special pleas charged in substance that theretofore, in a.
named court of Colorado, the defendants were charged with
the commission of the same murder as that referred to in the
indictment herein; that they were arrested and tried in that
court (which had full jurisdiction to try the offense charged)
and were duly and regularly acquitted of the above charge.

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of murder and discharged from custody. This acquittal was
pleaded as a bar. to so much of the indictment in the present
conspiracy case in the Federal court as sought to enforce, notwithstanding the acquittal of the defendants in the state court,
the provisions of § 5B09 of the Revised Statutes.
The court below overruled the demurrer to the indictment
and adjudged each plea in bar to be sufficient. The Government electing to stand by its demurrer to the special pleas, the
Circuit Court of the United States, by an order to that effect,
discharged the defendants from that part of each count in the
indictment which related to the charge of their having murdered Walker, in violation of the laws of the State, in the act
of committing the alleged conspiracy in violation of the statute
of the United States.
The United States thereupon prosecuted the present writ of
error under the act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, authorizing the
United States to prosecute vWrits of error in criminal cases on
certain points. That act is as follows: "That a writ of error
may be taken by and on behalf of the United States from the
District or Circuit Courts direct to the Supreme Court of the
United States in all criminal cases, in the following instances,
to wit: From a decision or judgment quashing, setting aside,
or sustaining a demurrer to, any indictment, or any count
thereof, where such decision or judgment is based upon the
invalidity, or construction of the statute upon which the indictment is founded. From a decision arresting a judgment of
conviction for insufficiency bf the indictment, where such decision is based upon the invalidity or construction of the statute
upon which the indictment is founded. From the decision or
judgment sustaining a special plea in bar, when the defendant has
not been put in jeopardy. The writ of error in al such cases shall
be taken within thirty days after the decision or judgment has
been rendered and shall be diligently prosecuted and shall have
precedence over all other cases. Pending the prosecution and
determination of the writ of error in the foregoing instances,
the defendant shall be admitted to bail on his own recogni-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

zance: Provided,That no writ of error shall be taken by or allowed the United States in any case where there has been a verdict in favor of the defendant." 34 Stat. 1246.
Only that part of the above act of March 2, 1907, is applicable to the present case which authorizes a writ of error by the
United States "from the decision or judgment sustaining a
special plea in bar, when the defendant has not been put in
jeopardy." In reviewing that decision may we go beyond the
ruling in the court below on the special pleas in bar and consider the various grounds of demurrer to the indictment? That
question is answered in the much-considered case of United
States v. Keitel, decided at the presnt term, 211 U. S. 370, 398.
It was there said: "That act, we think, plainly shows that in
giving to the United States the right to invoke the authority
of this court by direct writ of error in the cases for which it provides, contemplates vesting this court with jurisdiction only to
review the particular question decided by the court below for
which the statute provides. In other words, that the purpose
.of the statute was to give the United States the right to seek a
review of decisions of the lower court concerning the subjects embraced within the clauses of the statute, and not to
open here the whole case. We think this conclusion arises not
only because the giving of the exceptional right tb review in
favor of the United States is limited by the very terms of the
statute to authority to reexamine the particular decisions which
the statute embraces, but aiso because of the whole context,
which clearly indicates that the purpose was to confine the
right given'to a review of the decisions enumerated in the statute, leaving all other questions to be controlled by the general
mode of procedure governing the same."
We can then consider, on the present writ of error, only the
specific -question whether the special pleas in bar were sufficient
to exclude inquiry in the Federal court into the facts of the
alleged murder of Walker for the purpose of ascertaining the
punishment to be inflicted by that court upon the defendants,
if it should be found in that court that they had 'conspired to

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

injure, oppress, threaten and intimidate the persons named in
the indictment in the free exercise and enjoyment of their constitutional rights in violation of the laws of the'United States.
Previous to the filing of the special pleas the defendants had
been legally tried and acquitted in the state court of the charge
of having violated the laws of the State in murdering Walker.
When, therefore, this case was called for trial in the Federal
court and the Government was about to inquire whether the
defendants had, -iu the act of violating the provisions of § 5508,
committed the crimeof murdering Walker-an offense against
the State-the Circuit Court of the United States was confronted with the faet that the defendants had been already acquitted of that charge after a regular trial in the state court.
The question thus presented is within a very narrow compass,
and involves an inquiry as to the meaning and scope of § 5509.
The conspiracy for which the defendants were indicted was an
offense against the laws of the United States. It is none the
less so, notwithstanding the requirement in that section as to
the punishment to be inflicted upon its appearing that in the
act of committing the alleged Federal offense the defendants
committed some felony or misdemeanor against the laws of the
State. The reference in that section to an offense committed
against the State was not for the purpose of restricting or suspending the power of the State to determine whether its laws
had been violated and to punish the offender therefor. That
reference was for the purpose only of measuring the punishment
for the conspiracycharged by the United States, upon its being
found at the trial in the Federal court that such conspiracy in
violation of the Federal statute had been aggravated by the commission of an offense against the State, "an aggravatiofl merely
of the substantive offense of conspiracy," not a distinct, separate
offense against the United States to be punished by it without
reference to the conspiracy charged in the indictment. Rakes
v. United States, 212 U. S. 57; Davis v. United States, 107 Fed.
Rep. 753. Where the commission of a Federal offense is accompanied by an offense committed against the laws of the State,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

it is no doubt competent to so measure the punishment for the
Federal offense as to make it equal to the punishment prescribed
by the State for the crime committed against the State in the
act of violating the Federal law. But is § 5509 so worded as to
require the Federal court, after the defendants have been lawfully tried and acquitted as to the identical crime of murder
mentioned in the indictment in that court, to enter upon a judicial investigation to ascertain whether the defendants committed the alleged crime against the State of the murder mentioned in that indictment? We think not. The murder in
question, if committed at all, was, as a distinct offense, a crime
only against the State, and after the defendants were acquitted
of that crime by the only tribunal that had jurisdiction of it as
an offense againstthe State, it is to be taken that no such crime of
murder as charged in the indictment was in fact committed by
them. If this be not so, it follows that, notwithstanding the
lawful acquittal of the defendants by the only tribunal that
could lawfully try them for the alleged offense against the
State, the United States may, in this case, in the Circuit Court
of the United States, punish them for the conspiracy charged,
precisely as the state court could have punished them for murder if the defendants had been previously found guilty of that
crime in the state court. We do not think that § 5509 is necessarily to be so construed. Nor do we think that Congress intended any such result to occur. Such a result should be
avoided if it be possible to do so. We hold that it can be avoided
without doing violence to the words of the statute. The language of that section is entirely satisfied and the ends of justice
met if th statute is construed as not embracing, nor intended
to embrace, any felony or misdemeanor against the State of
which, prior to the trial in the Federalcourt of the Federaloffense
charged, the defendants had been lawfully acquitted of the
alleged state offense by a state court having full jurisdiction in
the premises. This interpretation recognizes the power of the
State, by its own tribunals, to try offenses against its laws and
to acquit or punish the alleged offender, as the facts may justify.

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In this connection it has been suggested that the State might,
under this interpretation, defeat the full operation of the act of
Congress. Not at all. The interpretation we have given to
§ 5509 will not prevent the trial of the defendants upon the
charge of conspiracy and their punishment, if guilty, according
to § 5508, namely, by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars
and imprisonment not more than ten years. The only result
of the views we have expressed is that in the trial of this case
in the Federal court § 5509 cannot be applied, because it has
been judicially ascertained and determined by a tribunal of
competent jurisdiction-the only one that could finally determine the question-that the defendants did not murder Walker.
The Federal court may proceed as indicated in § 5508, without
reference to § 5509. The lawful acquittal of the defendants ofthe charge of murder makes § 5509 inapplicable in the present
trial for conspiracy in the Federal court. In other words, the
Federal court may proceed-the defendants having been lawfully acquitted in the state court of the crime of murdering
Walker-just as if no such crime was committed or alleged to
have been committed by them in the act of violating the provisions of § 5508. As a general rule, the Federal courts accept
the judgment of the state court as to the meaning and scope of
a state enactment,,, whether civil or criminal. Mufch more
should the Federal court accept the judgment of a state court
based upon a verdict of acquittal of a crime against the State,
whenever, in a case in the Federal court, it becomes material
to inquire whether that'particular crime against the State was
committed by the defendants on trial in the Federal court for
an offense against the United States.
It should be said that the record discloses nothing that impeaches the good faith of the state court in its trial of these
defendants on the charge of having murdered Walker. There
is nothing to show, if that be material, that the trial in the
state court was hastened or wrongly conducted in order that
it might have effect upon the trial for conspiracy in the Federal
court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

213 U. S.

Without discussing other aspects of the case referred to by
counsel, we hold, for the reasons stated, that the special pleas
in bar were properly sustained, and that the judgment as respects those pleas must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

HURLEY, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF THE) ESTATE OF THE MOUNT CARMEL COAL COMPANY,
BANKRUPT, APPELLANTS, v. THE ATCHISON, TOPEKA AND SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 95.

Argued January 26, 27, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.

Coder v. Arts, post, p. 223, followed as to the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals from the Circuit Court of Appeals in bankruptcy proceedings, where the amount in controversy exceeds $2,000 and the
question involved is one which might have been taken on writ of
error from the highest court of a State to this court.
Equity looks at substance and not at form. An advance payment for
coal yet to be mined may be a pledge on the coal and, in that event,
as in thig case, the trustee in bankruptcy takes the mine subject to
the obligation to deliver the coal as mined to the extent of the advancement.
153 Fed. Rep. 503, affirmed.
THERE is practically no controversy in respect to the facts in
this case. We take the following statement from the opinion
of the Circuit Court of Appeals: In 1896 the Osage Carbon Company and the Cherokee and Pittsburg Coal and Mining Company, as parties of the first part, and Charles J. Devlin, as party
of the second part, and the railway company as party of the
third part, entered into an agreement whereby the parties of
the first part leased to Devlin for a term of three years certain
coal lands located in the State of Kansas, with the right to mine
coal therefrom, and Delvin, the party of the second part, agreed

