COMMERCIAL MUTUAL ACCIDENT CO. v. DAVIS. 245
213 U.S.

Syllabus.

bankruptcy act strikes down preferential conveyances which
come within its terms where the party preferred has good
reasons to believe that a preference is 'intended, it has not declared voidable merely preferential conveyances made in good
faith and in which the grantee, as is found in this case, was
ignorant of the insolvency of the grantor, and had no reason to
believe that a preference was intended. Nor do we think the
Circuit Court of Appeals erred ii holding that inasmuch as the
estate was ample for that -purpose, Arts was entitled to interest
on his mortgage debt. Finding no error in the judgment of the
Court of Appeals, the same is

Affirmed.

COMMERCIAL MUTUAL ACCIDENT COMPANY
DAVIS'

v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 114.

Argued March 15, 16, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.

Where the defendant makes no appearance in the state court or in the

Circuit Court except for the purpose of raising the question of jurisdiction and removing the case to the Federal court, such proceedings
do not amount to a general appearance.

A State may require a foreign insurance corporation not having any
regular office in the State to make its agents who have authority to
settle losses in the State competent to receive notice of actions concerning such losses.
In order for a state court to obtain jurisdiction over a foreign corporation having neither. property nor agent within a State it is essential for
the corporation to be doing business in the State.
An insurance company with outstanding policies in a State on which
it collects premiums and adjusts losses held, in this case, to be doing
busines within that Statebso as to render it liable to an action, and
that service, according to the law of the State, on a doctor sent to
investigate the loss and having power to adjust the same is sufficient
to.give the state court jurifdiction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

213 U. S.

While service of process on one induced by artifice or fraud to come
within the jurisdiction of the court will be set aside, this court will
not reverse the finding of the trial court that there was no such fraud
where, as in this case, there is testimony supporting it.
Under § 5 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, this court
has jurisdiction to review cases certified in which the question of
jurisdiction is alone involved and under the power conferred by .that
statute can reverse the court below, when clearly wrong, even upon
questions of fact.
Tmi

facts are stated in the opinion.

M7 Jules C. Rosenberger, with whom Mr. James C. Jones
and Mr. Kersey Coates Reed were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error:
It is essential to support the jurisdiction of the court to render
a personal judgment against a foreign corporation: That at
the time of service tof the summons the corporation was engaged
in business in the State; that the person upon whom service
was had stood in a representative character to the company,
that -his employment was general, not special, and that his duties were not limited to those of a subordinate employd nor to
a particular transaction; and that such person was not lured
or enticed into the State, or authority conferred upon him
through any trick or device employed by the plaintiff. St.
Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350;. Frawley v. Penn. Casualty Co., 124
Fed. Rep. 259; Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 522; Conn.
Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602; Barrow S. S. Co.
v. Kane, 170 U. S. 100; Colt v. Alkali Works, 190 U. S. 406;
Geer v. Alkali Works, 190 U. S. 428; Remington v. RailroadCo.,
198 U. S. 95.
The defendant was not and is not doing business in this State.
Isolated or sporadic transactions, taking place between a foreign corporation and citizens of a State are not a doing or carrying on of business within that State, even where the transaction is of such a character as to constitute a part of the ordinary
business of the corporation. Cooper Mfg. Co. v. Ferguson, 113
. .727; Frawley v. Ins. Co., 124 Fed. Rep. 264, and cas-

COMMERCIAL MUTUAL ACCIDENT CO. v. DAVIS. 247
213 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

cited; Louden Machinery Co. v. Amer. Iron Co., 127 Fed. Rep.
1008; Romaine v. Ins. Co., 55 Fed. Rep. 751; Hazeltine v. Ins.
Co., 55 Fed. Rep. 743; St. Louis Wire Co. v. Consol. Wire Co.,
32 Fed. Rep. 802; United States v. Telephone Co., 29 Fed. Rep.
37, 41; Carpenter v. Air Brake Co., 32 Fed. Rep. 434; 19 Cyc.
1268.
Much more so is this true where, as in this case, the business*
transacted was wholly by mail which does not constitute a doing of business in the State. Ailgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S.
578; Marine Ins. Co. v. St. L. Ry. Co., 41 Fed. Rep. 643; Hazeltine v. Ins. Co., 55 Fed. Rep. 743; Romaine v. Ins Co., 55 Fed.
Rep. 751; CVsar v. Cahill, 83 Fed. Rep. 403; East Bldg. &
Loan v. Bedford; 88 Fed. Rep. 7; Neal v. New 0. Assn., 100
Tennessee, 607; Frawley v. Penna. Cas. Co., 124 Fed. Rep. 259.
Where the agency of the person served is casual or temporary or confined to a particular purpose, he cannot be held, in
law, an agent to receive service of process on behalf of the corporation. St. Clairv. Cox, 106 U. S. 350; Conn. Mut. Life Ins.
Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602; Louden Mach. Co. v. Amer. Iron
Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 1008, per McPherson, J., disapproving Houston v. FilerCo., 85 Fed. Rep. 757; Mex. CentralRy. v. Pinkney,
149 U. S. 194; Maxwel v. Railroad Co., 34 Fed. Rep. 286;
Frawley v. Pa. Casualty Co., 124 Fed Rep. 265; Wall v. C. &
0. Ry. Co., 95'Fed. Rep. 398.
If a person is induced by artifice to come within the jurisdiction of a-court for the purpose of having process served upon
him and process is there served, it is such an abuse that the
court will, on motion, set the-process aside. Fitzgerald Const.
Co. v. Fitzgerald, 13,7 U. S. 98; Frawley v. Penna. Casualty Co.,
124 Fed. Rep. 259; Louden Mach. Co. v. Amer. Iron Co., 127
Fed. Rep. 1008; Cavanaugh v. Manhattan Transit Co., 133
Fed. Rep. 818.
The sheriff's return does not show a valid service under the
local statute under whichit was attempted to be made, § 7992;
Rev. Stat. Mo., 1899, which provides that service may be mde'
upon any person "who adjusts or settles a loss or pays the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

213 U. S.

for such insurance corporation, or in any 'manner aids or assists
in doing either." No loss .was adjusted, settled or paid in the
State. This loss having never been adjusted, settled or paid,
it cannot be said that he has in any manner "aided" or "assisted" in so doing, as "assist" necessarily means that the
act attempted has been effected. Hurst v. State, 79 Alabama,
55, :57.
The Federal courts in determining their jurisdiction are not
bound' by any local statute or decision, but will determine on
principles of general jurisprudence- whether the company is
doing business in the State and whether the person served is
such an agent as is truly representative of the corporation.
St. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350! Barrow Steamship Co. v. Kane,
170 U.. S.100; Spratleyv. Ins. Co., 172 U. S. 602; Frawley v.
Pa. Casualty Co., 124 Fed. Rep. 259, and cases cited.
Mr. William C. Scarritt,with whom Mr. Elliott H. Jones and
Mr. Edward L. Scarrittwere on the brief, 'for defendant in error:
The finding of the lower court that the plaintiff in error was
doing businegs in the State of Missouri, and that there was no
fraudulent enticement, of defendant below into this State, and
that due service of the process upon the defendant had been
made, is, upon this record, conclusive upon this court. Russell
v. Ely, 2 Black, 575; 580; Texas &" Pacific Railway Co. v.
Cox, 145 U. S.593; United States v. Copper Queen Mining Co.,
185 U. S. 495, 497; Jeffries v. Mutual Life Insurance Co., 110
U. S.305; Hyde v. Booraem, 16 Pet. 169, 176; Parks v. Turner,
12 How. 39, 43; St. Louis v. Rutz, 138 U. S. 226, 241; Insurance Co. v. Folsom, 18 Wall. 237, 253; Cooper v. Omthundro,
19 Wall. 65, 69; Mann v. Rock Island Bank, 11 Wall. 650,
652.

The general finding of the court in favor of the service is
fully supported by the proof.
. The return of the officer as to the service of the summons, and
the finding of the court in its judgment as to the facts of that
service are at least prima facie evidence of the facts so recited.

COMMERCIAL MUTUAL ACCIDENT CO. v. DAVIS. 249
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Alderson on Judicial Writs and Process, 530; Murfree on Sheriffs, § 866a; 18 Ency. of Pleading & Practice, 963.
The sheriff's return stands in the first instance as the affidavit of the sheriff, but is subject to be disputed by affidavits on
the part of the defendant showing to the satisfaction of the
court, upon motion to quash, that the return is not true in
point of fact, or, as in the case at bar, is sufficient in law. Carr
v. Bank, 16 Wisconsin, 50; Bond v. Wilson, 8,Kansas, 228;
Crosby v. Farmer, 39 Minnesota, 305; S.C.,'40 N. W. Rep. 71;
Walker v. Lutz, 14 Nebraska, 274; S. C., 15 N. W. Rep. 352;
Wendell v. Mugridge, 19 N. H. 109; Stout v. Railroad Co., 3 McCrary, 1; S. C., 8 Fed. Rep. 794; Van Rensselaer v. Chadwick,
7 How. Prac. 297; Wallis v. Lott, 15 How. Prac. 567; Watson
v. Watson, 6 Coniecticut, 334; Rowe v. Water Co., 10 California,
442; Wall v. Chesapeake & 0. Ry. Co., 95 Fed. Rep. 398, 404.
Under the Missouri practice the return of the officer is conclusive as to the facts recited., And he is liable upon his official
bend for false return. Newcomb v. New York Central & H.
R. R. Co., 182 Missouri, 687; Phillips v. Evans, 64 Missouri,
17; Regent Realty Co. v. Armour Packing Co., 112 Mo. App.
271.
Upon a fair construction of all the proof submitted, the sheriff's return was good in law and the Missouri court had jurisdiction of the person of defendant. Pennsylvaniia Lumbermen's
Mutual.FireIns. Co. v. Meyer, 197 U. S. 407; Houston v. Filer
& -S. Co.,85 Fed. Rep. 757; Conn. M. L. I. Co. v. Spratley, 172
U. S. 602; ChattanoogaNat. B. & L. Assn. v. Denson, 189 U. S.
408; Funk, Adm., v. Anglo-American Ins. Co., 27 Fed. Rep.
335; St. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S.350; Bates v. Scott, 26 Mo. App.
430.
MR.JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case presents ai question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States to entertain a suit brought by
Mary B. Davis, defendant in error, plaintiff below, against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

Commercial Mutual Accident Company, plaintiff in error, defendant below. The case comes here upon a certificate involving the question whether the defendant company was duly
served with process. The Circuit Court"found that the service
of summons was valid and sufficient to give it jurisdiction, and
overruled a motion to set aside the service and dismiss the
action for want of jurisdiction.
The suit was commenced by Mary B. Davis in the Circuit
Court of Howard County, Missouri, and was removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Central Division of
Western Missouri by the defendant, a Pennsylvania corporation. The company made no appearance in the court below or
in the state court, except for the purpose of raising the question
of jurisdiction, and removing the case to the Federal court.
Such proceedings did not amount to a general appearance in
the suit. Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518; Wabash
Western Rwy. v. Brow, 164 U. S. 271.
The record contains a bill of exceptions, setting forth the testimony upon the question of jurisdiction. It kppears that A. F.
Davis, husband of .the plaintiff, held a policy in the defendant
company, issued August 6, 1896, in the sum of $5,000, insuring
against accidental death. On December 31, 1906, he received
a gunshot wound, from which he died on the fourth of January,
1907. On January 7, 1907, the insurance company was notified
of the death. On January 14 and 15.one'Dr. Mason, of Chicago,
went to the city of Fayette, Missouri, the home of the plaintiff,
and there made an investigation of the cause of death in defendant's behalf, and demanded an inspection of the body of
the deceased, which demand was refused. Some correspondence ensued between the plaintiff and the defendant company,
and, on February 20, a letter was written, signed by the plaintiff,
which letter contained, among other things, the following:
"However, if you think it is right you may send some one
here to examine the body for you. Can't you also send some
one authorized who could settle the claim here if your doctor
found everything as reported, as most all of the claims have

COMMERCIAL MUTUAL ACCIDENT 00. v. DAVIS. 251
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

been paid, and I am very anxious to have the balance settled
as soon as possible.
"Then, too, if I should want to compromise the claim in lieu
of an examination, your agent would have power to settle. it
without any delay. Please let me know just when you will send
.some one as I am thinking of going to St. Louis for a few days
and would like to be here when he comes, so let me know several
days in advance."
To this letter the company replied, by a letter written by its
secretary at the Philadelphia office, that it would have its medical representative in Fayette with authority to make an adjustiment. Afterwards, on February 27, Dr. Mason went to Fayette,
having received a written letter of authority from the company
authorizing him to act on behalf of the company in the examination of the body of the deceased, which letter also authorized him to adjust the claim.
The testimony is not altogether in harmony as to what occurred at the meeting of February 27. • It does appear that the
representative of the plaintiff and Dr. Mason met and conferred
upon the matter of compromising the claim, and that afterwards an offer was made by the plaintiff's representatives to
proceed with an examination of the body of the deceased. Dr.
Mason declined this offer until he could have another physician
present; and after some negotiation a deputy sheriff appeared
and served process upon Dr. Mason as agent of the company,
upon a petition which had been prepared before his arrival,
and which was filed in the case subsequently removed to the
Federal court. There is also testimony tending to show that a
physician was present, who was ready to assist in the examination of the body as a representative of the plaintiff.
The grounds of objection to the service in the case may be
summarized to be: first, that Mason was not a person authorized
to receive service of process on defendant's behalf; second, that
at the time the service was attempted the defendant company
was not engaged in the transaction of business in the State of
Missouri; third, that Dr. Mason was enticed into the State of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

Missouri by the trick and device of the plaintiff; fourth, that
the return of service did not disclose a valid service under the
laws of the United States nor of the State of Missouri.
As to the service of summons, the statutes of Missouri provide
(Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1899, vol. 1, § 570) as follows:
"A summons shall be executed, except as otherwise provided by law, either

.

.

.

fourth, where defendant is a

corporation or joint stock company, organized under the laws
of any other State or country, and having an office or doing
business in this State, by delivering a copy of the writ and petition to any officer or agent of such corporation or company
in charge of any office or place of business, or if it have no office
or place of business, then to any officer, agent or employ6 in
any county where such service may be obtained, and, when had
in conformity with this subdivision, shall be deemed personal
service against such corporation, and authorize the rendition
of a general judgment against it."
Section 7992, vol. 2, Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1899:
"Service of summons in any action against an insurance
company, not incorporated under and by virtue of the laws
of this State, and not authorized to do business in this State by
the superintendent of insurance, shall, in addition to the mode
prescribed in section 7991, be valid and legal and of the same
force and effect as persona service on a private individual, if
made by delivering a copy of the summons and complaint to
any person within this State who shall solicit insurance on
behalf of anysuch insurance corporation, or make any contract
of insurance, or collects or receives any premium for insurance,
or who adjusts or settles a loss, or pays the same for such insurance corporation, or in any manner aids or assists in doing
either."
The sheriff returned the summons as follows:
"Executed the within writ in the county of Howard and
State of Missouri, on the 27th day of February, A. D. 1907, by
delivering a copy of the petition in this case hereto attached
and a copy of this writ to Frank G. Mason, agent of the N~ithin

COMMERCIAL MUTUAL ACCIDENT CO. v. DAVIS. 253
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

named defendant, the Commercial Mutual Accident Company,
a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Penn-

sylvania, and doing business in the State, but having no office
or place of business herein, and not incorporated under the laws
of this State nor authorized to do business in this State, and
while he, the said agent, was transacting business for the said
defendant in. our said county, and while he was adjusting or
settling a loss on a policy of insurance for said defendant or was

aiding and assisting in so doing.
"GEORGE D. GIBSON,
"Sheriff, Howard County, Missouri,
"By H. L. -HUGHES, Deputy."

In view 6f the fact that much of the business of the country
is done by corporations having foreign charters and principal
offices remote from States wherein they transact' business, it
"has been found necessary to make provision for the service of
summons upon local agents, in order to give jurisdiction to try
controversies which have originated in such States. With this
purpose in view many States have provided that foreign corporations, in order to do business within the State, must make
provision for service upon some local agent, or by authority
conferred upon someistate officer to accept service of summons.
And but for such statutes and the authority given by the States
to obtain service upon local agents there could be no recovery
upon the contracts of such companies, unless redress be sought
in a distant State -where the company may happen to have
its home office. Mutual Life Ins. Co: v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602,
619; RailroadCompany v. Harris,12 Wall. 65, 83.
In pursuance of this policy the State of Missouri has enacted
the sections of its statutes providing for service upon the agents
of insurance companies. In § 7992 it is provided, among other
things, that service may be made by delivering a copy of the
summons and' complaint to any person within the State who
shall solicit insurance on behalf of any insurance company, or
make any contract of insurance, or who collects or receives Any

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

premium for insurance, or who adjusts or settles a loss or pays
the same for such insurance corporation, or in any manner aids
or assists in doing either. Under this section, in part at least,
the sheriff undertook to make service upon Dr. Mason. The
record clearly discloses that Mason had authority to adjust and
settle the loss which was the subject of the plaintiff's claim.
It is true that the statute says that service may be upon "any
person within the State

.

.

. who adjusts or settles the

loss," .etc. This language clearly has reference to the authority
of the person whom the statute declares to be competent to
receive service of summons, and the statute, in effect, provides
that the person clothed with such power shall be capable of
receiving service upon the corporation. The statute designing
to reach one having the authority of the company for the purpose named, it is immaterial that the loss was not actually
settled. This section (7992) is limited to the cases of companies
not incorporated under the laws of the State, and not authorized
to do such business within the State by the superintendent
of insurance.
This law was in force when Dr. Mason came into the State
clothed with full authority to settle the loss. The company
must be presumed to have acted with knowledge of this statute.
The company could only be served with process through some
agent. It was competent for the State, keeping within lawful
bounds, to designate the agent upon whom process might be
served. It chose to enact a statute providing that an agent
competent by authority of the company to settle and adjust
losses should be competent to represent the compahy for the
service of process. When the company sent such an agent into
Missouri, by force of the statute he is presumed to represent
the company for the purpose of service, and to be vested with
authorityoin respect to such ser-ice so faras q make t ,uown,
to the foreign corporation thus coming withi' the State and
subjecting itself to its laws. Lafayette Insurance Company v.
French, 18 How. 404, 408.
It is not necessary that express authority to receive service

COMMERCIAL MUTUAL ACCIDENT CO. v. DAVIS. 255
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of process be shown. The law of the State may designate an
agent upon whom service may be made, if he be one sustaining
such relation to the company that the State may designate him
for that purpose, exercising legislative power within the lawful
bounds of due process of law. This was held in effect in Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company v. Spratley, 172 U. S.
602.
We think the State did not exceed its power and did no injustice to the corporation by requiring that when it clothed an
agent with authority to adjust or settle the loss, such agent
should be competent to receive notice, for the company, of an
action concerning the same.
It is further contended that the defendant company was not
doing business within the State of Missouri. That it is essential,
in order to obtain jurisdiction over a foreign corporation, having, as in the case at bar, neither property nor agent in the
State, that it be doing business in the State is settled by numerous decisions of this court. St. Clair' v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350;
Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518; Barrow Steamship Company v. Kane, 170 U. S. 100; Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance
Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602; Conley v. MathiesonAlkali Works,
190 U..S. 406; Lumbermen's Insurance Company v. Meyer, 197
U. S. 407; Peterson v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway
Company, 205 U. S. 364.
Was the defendant doing business in the State of Missouri?
The record discloses , and the court has found, that it had other
insurance policies outstanding in the State of Missouri. Upon
these policies undoubtedly premiums were paid, and it was the
right of the company to investigate losses thereunder, to have
an examination of the body of the deceased in proper cases,
and to do whatever might be necessary to an adjustment or
payment of any loss. The record shows that the company,sent
Dr. Mason to Fayette to investigate the loss sued for in this
case, and later, and at the time of the service of the process,
Mason was in Missouri with full authority to settle the loss in
controversy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

Previous cases in this court have not defined the extent of the
business necessary to the presence of a foreign corporation in
the State for the purpose of a valid service; it is sufficient if it
is doing business therein. We are of opinion that the finding
of the court in this case is supported by testimony, and that
the corporation -was doing business in Missouri.
It is urged that it clearly appears from the testimony in this
case that Dr. Mason was sent into the State of Missouri because
of the fraud and artifice of the plaintiff, and that in such case
the law will not permit a service of*summons to stand. It is
undoubtedly true that if a person is induced by artifice or fraud
to come within the jurisdiction of the court for the purpose of
procuring service of process, such fraudulent abuse of the writ
will be set aside upon proper showing. FitzgeraldConst. Co. v.
Fitzgerald,137 U. S. 98. "The fraud of the plaintiff," says the
counsel for the plaintiff in error, "consisted in -inducing the
company by artifice to confer upon Dr. Mason authority to
compromise the suit."
Upon the testimony before the court the Circuit Court
reached the conclusion that the company was not induced by
fraud or artifice to send Dr. Mason to the State of Missouri.
This court has jurisdiction to review, under clause 5 of the act
of March 3, 1891, cases in which the question of jurisdiction
alone is involved, and which are duly certified here for decision.
And where the decision of the court below is clearly wrong, even
upon a question of fact, it may be .st aside under the power
conferred by the statute upon this court. We think this is the
effect of the reasoning in Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S.
supra; anO-Mexican Central R. R. Co. v. Pinkney, 149 U. S.
194.
It is contended by counsel for the plaintiff in error that the
evidence is undisputed and clearly demonstrates the fraudulent
conduct of the plaintiff in obtaining service in this case. But
we are not prepared, on this question of fact, to say that the
court below committed plain error. The court might have
found upon the testimony that there was a bona fide attempt

TURNER v. AMERICAN SECURITY & TRUST CO. 257
213 U. S.

Syllabus.

to settle the controversy between the parties, and that it was
only when they failed to settle that service of summons was
made upon Mason, as the agent of the company. There is
testimony tending to show that both parties expected an adjustment of the claim to be made at this meeting, which was
held for that purpose. There is testimony from which it might
be inferred that there was a bona fide offer to permit an examination at that time of the remains of the deceased. We do not
feel authorized to find as against the testimony set forth in the
'bill of exceptions, and the finding of the court below, that the
purpose in writing the letter of February 20, and procuring
authority to be conferred upon Dr. Mason to settle the case,
and to come into the State of Missouri for that purpose, was
a mere fraudulent scheme to obtain service upon the insurance
company.
As the sole question before us pertains to the sufficiency
of the service under the facts disclosed, we reach the conclusion
that the judgment of the Circuit Court must be affirmed.

Affirmed.

TURNER v. AMERICAN SECURITY AND TRUST
COMPANY
APPEAL FROM AND IN ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 101.

Argued March 9, 10, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.

Where the issue is whether a person is of sound or unsound mind, a lay
witness, who has had an adequate opportunity to observe the speech
and conduct of that person, may, in addition to relating, the significant instances of speech and conduct, testify to the opinion formed

at the time of observation as to the mental capacity of such person.

While a general rule cannot be framed for all cases, and in clear cases
of abuse the appellate court should reverse, the determination of
whether a witness is qualified to state his opinion as to the mental
VOL. CCXIII-17

