OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Counsel for Parties

213 U. S.

MARTINEZ v. LA ASOCIACION DE SENORAS DAMAS
DEL SANTO ASILO DE PONCE.APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.

No. 83. Argued January 21, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.
All relations between Spain and Porto Rico having been severed by the
cession of that Territory by the Treaty of Paris, a corporation organized under the laws of Spain for purely local and charitable purposes
in Porto Rico is not to be regarded as a citizen of Spain within the
meaning of the provisions of the act of April 12, 1900, c. 191, 31 Stat.
77, as amended by the act of March 2, 1901, c. 812, 31 Stat. 953, relating to the jurisdiction of the District Court of the United States for
Porto Rico, nor is such a corporation a citizen of the United States
within the meaning of such provision; if it is a citizen of any country
it is a citizen of Porto Rico.
The people of Porto Rico have been created by Congress and exist as a
body politic subject only to the usual reserved power of annulment of
territorial legislation; and the government of Porto Rico under the
organic act is charged with the creation and control of corporations
strictly local in character, and corporations of that nature organized
prior to the cession of the island are to be regarded for jurisdictional
purposes as citizens of Porto Rico.
While by Artic!e IX of the Treaty of Paris between Spain and the
United States ,provision is made for Spanish subjects, natives of the
peninsula, to preserve their, allegiance to Spain, that article has no
reference to corporations; nor is there any other proviAion of the
treaty providing therefor. Qutrre and not decided, what the citizenship now is of Spanish corporations doing business in Porto Rico
prior to its cession by the Treaty of Paris to the United States.

THE facts are stated in tne opinion.
Mr. Fritz von Briesen, witil whom Mr. Charles M. Boerman

wap on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Joh#. W. Yerhks, with whom Mr. George E. Hamilton,

MARTINEZ
213 U. S.

. ASOCIACION DE SENORAS.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. M. J. Colbert and Mr. John J. Hamilton were on the brief,
-for appellee.
.MR.
JUSTICE:

MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellee, alleging itself to be "a charitable corporation,
organized and existing under the laws of the Kingdom of
Spain," brought a bill in equity in the District Court of the
United States for Porto Rico against the appellants, alleging
them to be citizens of Porto Rico. The object of the suit,
generally described, is to assert title to certain lands in Porto
Rico, and its determination turns upon the construction of the
will of Juan Bautisti. Silva, an inhabitant of Porto Rico, who
died in 1875. The suit, therefore, does not arise under the Constitution, laws or a treaty of the United States. A decree was
entered in favor of the plaintiff, and the defendants appealed
to this court.
Before entering upon a consideration of the merits of the
cause the jurisdiction of the court below to entertain
it, which
is questioned, must be passed upon. The District Court of the
United States for Porto Rico was created, and its jurisdiction.
defined, by the act of April 12, 1900, establishing a civil government for Porto Rico, 31 Stat. 77, chapter 191, as amended by.
the act of March 2, 1901, 31 Stat. 953, chapter 812. By § 34
of the first act it was provided that"Porto Rico shall constitute a judicial district to be called
the District of Porto Rico,

.

.

.

the District Court for

said district shall be called the District Court of the United
States for Porto Rico

.

.

.

and shall have, in addition to

the ordinary jurisdiction of District Courts of the United Stites,
jurisdiction of all cases cognizant in the Circuit Courts of the
United States, and shall proceed therein in the same manner as
a Circuit Court."
The jurisdiction was furtlhr defined in § 3 of the last act,
which provided that "the jurisdiction-of the District Court of
the United. States for Porto Rico in civil cases shall, in additifn

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

,to that conferred by the act of April 12, 1900, extend to and
embrace controversies where the parties, or either of them, are
citizens of the United States, or citizens or subjects of a foreign
•State.or States, wherein the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of -interest" or costs.. the sum or value of one thousand
dollars."
If the court below had jurisdiction, it must be under the
amending act' and because the plaintiff was either a citizen of
the United States or a citizen or subject of a foreign state.
-No other ground of jurisdiction has been or can be suggested.
It was found by the District Court that the plaintiff was a
citizen or subject of Spain and the jurisdiction was sustained
upon that theory. Counsel in this court have attempted to
sustai the jurisdiction on the ground. that the plaintiff, if not a
citizenor' subject of Spain; is a citizen of-the United States. If
the plaintiff was neither a citizen of the United States, nor
a citizen or subject of Spain, it is clear that the court was without jurisdiction.
We assume, in favor of the plaintiff, that it.was a corporation
organized in 1863 by a decree of the Spanish Crown. That de-.
cree incorporated an asylum of charity in Ponce. The purposes of the incorporation are described in article 1 of the bylaws which follows;
.'This association recognizes as its principal
object the al'leviation of human suffering, and for this purpose it will establish an asylum for the poor of the district. When its resources
permit it to give its attention to other objects related to its
purpose it will establish schools for poor children of both sexes,
under the supervision ofLSisters of Charity."
The incorporators were all residents of Ponce, and all the
purposes of the corporatien were to be accomplished and all its
business done in that locality.
The first question is, whether, after the ratification of the
treaty of peace between the United States and Spain, the plaintiff corporation continued to be a citizen or subject of Spain.
It is assumed, in passing upon this question, that Congress

MARTINEZ v. ASOCIACION DE SENORAS.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in employing the word citizen in this connection intended to
include corporations, in view of the decisions of this court that
the word has that meaning when used in the definition of the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States. St.
Louis & San FranciscoRailway v. James, 161 U. S. 545.
By the treaty of peace (30 Stat. 1754), Spain ceded Porto
Rico to the United States and thereby parted with all sovereignty over that island. Careful provision was made that the
cession should not impair the property or rights of corporations,
associations or individuals. Article VIII. It is clear, however,
that thereafter the duty to protect property and rights within
the ceded territory rested upon the United States. An opportunity was afforded to Spanish subjects, natives of the peninsula, to preserve their allegiance to the crown of Spain by making within a limited time a declaration to that effect. Article IX. This article obviously had no reference to corporations.
No other provisions 'of the treaty seem relevant to the question
before us.
We are of opinion that the cession of Porto Rico by Spain to
the United States severed all relations between Spain and Ahis
corporation, and that thereafter it cannot be regarded in any
sense as a citizen or subject of Spain. Spain has no duty to or
power over it. We confine this statement to a corporation like
the one before-us, formed for charitable purposes and limited
in its operations to the ceded territory. A different question
(which need not be decided) would be presented if the corporation had other characteristics than those possessed by the one
under consideration, as, for instance, if it were a Spanish trading corporation, with a place of business in Spain but doing
business by comity in the island of Porto Rico.
The next- question is whether the plaintiff corporation is a
citizen of the United States. Its status during the period between the cession and the passage of the act to provide a civil
government for the island need not be determined. That 'act
created a form of government for Porto Rico and its adjacent
islands, in which there was exhibited, with some modifications,

.24

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

the characteristic American separation of the. legislative, executive and.judicial powers. The United States has never
granted to any territory organized by act of Congress complete self-government, and Porto Rico is no exception to the
rule. Indeed, though the act confers a considerable measure
of self-government, for reasons deemed sufficient by Congress,
it stops short of the power usually conferred upon territories
within the continent. This organic act has the provision common to most, if not all, our territories, whether fully incorporated into the United States or not, that Congress may, if it
deem advisable, annul all laws enacted by the local legislative
assembly. Subject to these limitations, a body politic, under
the name of The People of Porto Rko, with a citizenship of its
own, is created (§7); existing laws, not in conflict with the applicable laws of the United States, are continued in force until
altered, amended or repealed by the legislative assembly or by
Congress (§ 8); public property acquired by the United States
from Spain is placed under the control of the local government,
and the legislative assembly is given power to legislate with
respect to it (Q13); the legislative authority is given "power
by due enactment to amend, alter, modify or repeal any law or
ordinance, civil or criminal, continued in force by this act"
(§15); the Governor is enjoined faithfully to execute the laws,
and given to that end the applicable powers of a Governor of a
Territory of the United States (§ 17); the legislative assembly
of Porto'Rico is constituted (Q27); and the scope of the legislative power is fully described in § 32, as follows:
"That the legislative authority herein provided shall extend
to all matters of a legislative character not locally inapplicable,
including power to create, consolidate, and reorganize the
municipalities, so far as may be necessary, and to provide and
repeal laws and ordinances therefor; and also the power to alter,
amend, modify, and repeal any and all laws and ordinances of
every character now in force in Porto Rico, or any municipality or district thereof, not nconsistent with the provisions
hereof: Provided, however, That all grants of franchises, rights,

EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOC. v. BROWN.

25

Syllabus.

213 U. S.

and privileges or concessions of a public or quasi-public nature
shall be made by the executive council, with the approval of
the governor, and all franchises granted in Porto Rico shall be
reported to Congress, which hereby reserves the power to annul
or modify the same.."
In the form of government, which is typically American, the
creation and control of corporations is exclusively a legislative
function. We are of opinion that the effect of the organic act
is to intrust that function, so far as it relates to a corporation
of the kind under consideration, whose essential qualities need
not be repeated, to the government of Porto Rico; and that
such a corporation is now, if a citizen of any country, a citizen
of Porto Rico. We need not consider whether the corporation
has more than ,a de facto existence, subject to the will of the
Porto Rican legislature. It follows that the court below had
no jurisdiction of this cause.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded to the District
Court of the United States for Porto Rico, with instructionsto
dismiss the bill, without prejudice, for want of jurisdiction.

EQUITABLE

LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
UNITED STATES v. BROWN.

OF THE

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 74.

Argued January 13, 14, 1909.-Decided March 1, 1909.

A life insurance company which has several hundred thousand policyholders is in its nature a public institution, and where there is no ap-

prehension as to its solvency, a court of equity will consider all the
facts as to the relative advantages and disadvantages of a receivership
or accounting before granting relief of that nature in the suit of an in-

dividual policyholder even if jurisdiction to grant such relief exists.

