SILER v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 176
Syllabus.

213 U. S.

J. F. Lyon v. W. J. Murray and others, 79 S. Car. 316, the
Supreme Court of South Carolina held that the return of the
commission was insufficient, and ordered a peremptory mandamus to issue. A writ of error was thereupon prosecuted
from this court, upon the theory that the court below had
declined to give full faith and credit to the orders and decrees
of the Circuit Court of the United States in the cases mentioned.
The determination of the questions of a Federal nature,
arising in this case, is controlled by the decision made in Murray
v. Wilson Distilling Company, No. 625, this term, ante, p. 151,
heretofore referred to, and, upon the authority of that decision,
the judgment of the Supreme Court of South Carolina is
Affirme&.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the consideration or

disposition of this case.

SILER et. al., CONSTITUTING THE RAILROAD COMMISSION OF KENTUCKY, v. LOUISVILLE AND
NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 521.

Argued February 24, 25, 26, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.

Where the Federal questions raised by the bill are not merely colorable
but are raised in good faith and not in a fraudulent attempt to give
jurisdiction to the Circuit Court, that court has jurisdiction, and can
decide the case on local or state questions only, and it will not lose
its jurisdiction of.the case by omitting to decide ,the Federal questions or deciding them adversely to the party claiming their benefit.
Where the bill not only alleges that the statute creating the cmmissign,
but also the order of.the commission sought to be enjoined, deprives
complainant of its property without due process of law, and also

violates other provisions of the Constitution, the Circuit Court obtains

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

213 U. S.

jurisdiction without reference to the particular violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. Barney v. City of New York, 190 U. S. 430, distinguished.
The rule of this court is not to decide constitutional questions if the
case can be decided without doing so; and when, as in this case, it can
dispose of the case by construction of the statute and on the lack of
authority given by such statute to make the order complained of, it
will do so rather than on the constitutional questions involved.
Jurisdiction so extensive as to place in the hands of a commission power
to make general maximum rates for all commodities between all
points in the State is not to be implied, but must be given in language
admitting no other reasonable construction, and this power cannot be
found in the Kentucky Railroad Commission Act.
Notwithstanding the highest court of the State has not yet construed
the statute involved, this court must, in a case of which it has jurisdiction, construe it.
The fact that the legislature of a State gives to a railroad commission
no power to raise rates, but only power to reduce rates found to be
exorbitant after hearing on specific complaint, is an argument against
construing the statute so as to give the commission power to fix
maximum rates on all commodities.
Where a railroad commission after a hearing on specific complaint as to
a rate on a particular commodity makes a general rate tariff for
maximum rates on all commodities which is beyond its statutory
power, the whole tariff falls, and the rate on the tariff on the particular
commodity will not be separately sustained.
The Kentucky railroad commission having, after a hearing on complaints that the rates on lumber were too high, attempted to impose
a general maximum intrastate tariff schedule, and the statute creating the commission not giving it authority to make such a schedule,
this court, without deciding whether either the statute or the order
deprives the railroad companies of their property without due process
of law, holds that the entire schedule of rates including those on
lumber must fall as being beyond the jurisdiction of the commission
to establish in that manner.

THE Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, hereinafter
called the company, filed its bill July 25, 1906, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Kentucky, to enjoin the enforcement of a certain' order made by
the railroad commission of Kentucky (hereafter called the
commission), providing what. are termed maximum rates on

SILER v. LOUISVILLE & .NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 177
213 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the transportation of all commodities upon the railroad of the
company to and from all points within the State. In its bill
the company contended that the order as to rates of transportation was void, because it was, upon several stated grounds,
in violation of certain named provisions of the Constitution of
the United States, among them being the claim that the rates
were so low as to be confiscatory. It: was also contended that
the statute was an interference, in its results, with interstate
commerce. The company also contended (among other ob-.
jections not of a Federal nature) that the commission had no
power to make the order in question under a correct and proper
construction of the state statute of March 10, 1900, tinder
which the commission assumed to exercise the power to fix the
rates provided for in its order.
The Circuit Court decided that such act, hereinafter
fully set
forth and called the "McChord Act," and also the order of the
railroad commission of Kentucky complained of, irrespective
of any claim that such order was confiscatory, Violated the
provisions of § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, prohibiting any State from depriving any person of property without due process of law and
.from denying to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws, and that the order of the commission,
so far as it was applicable to the company, was, therefore, null
and void, and the special commissioner who had been appointed to take evidence in the case as to the character of the
rates, and other matters, was directed to so report. (The court
decided the case upon the authority of Louisville &c. R. R.
Co. v. McChord, 103 Fed. Rep. 216, reversed on other grounds,
183 U. S.483.)
A final decree having been made pursuant to the decision of
the court, the commission appealed directly to this court from
such decree. The-proceedings which led up to the decree from
which the commission has appealed, without the court passing
upon the allegation of the confiscatory nature of the rates, were
by means of a stipulation made in order to facilitate matters,
voL:.ccxii-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

213 U. S.

by reason of which the court decided as matter of law the order
and act were both invalid, and it perpetually enjoined the enforcement of the order as to rates as well as the procuring of
indictments against the officers of the company or the company itself.
The appellants disputed the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
upon the grounds which are particularly stated in the opinion
herein, and they took issue on many of the material allegations contained in the bill of complaint.
The facts upon which the questions in this case arise are as
follows: The company was duly incorporated under an act of
the general assembly of the State of Kentucky, approved
March 5, 1850. It has a large mileage, amounting to over 1,200
miles within the State, and it operates its road within the State
'in connection with other portions of its road in other States, having altogether in Kentucky and such other States a mileage of
over 4,000 miles. It claims to have a contract right to fix rates
as provided in its charter, and it contends that the order of the
commission violates that right as well as other rights protected
by the Federal Constitution.
The State adopted a new constitution on the twenty-eighth
day of September, 1891, by § 209 of which the present railroad commission of the Statd was established.
It is asserted by the company, though such assertion is
denied, that up to March10, 1900, the commission or its predecessors had not been emp6wered by constitutional or statutory provision to regulate or fix the rate of compensation which
a railroad company might charge for the service of transportink
freight or passengers over its lineg in the State. On the abovementioned date the general sssembly enacted what is geneially
called the "McChord Act," which is set forth in full in the
margin.1
1 An

Act to prevent railroad companies or corporations owning and
operating a line or lines of railroad, and its officers, agents and em-

ploys, from charging, collecting or receiving extortionate freight
or passenger rates in this Commonwealth, and to further increase

SILER v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 179
213 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The act has not been construed by the Court of Appeals, the
highest court of the State of Kentucky, upon the question
and define the duties and powers of the railroad commission in
reference thereto, and prescribing the manner of enforcing the
provisions of this act, and penalties for the violation of its provisions.
SEc. 1. When complaint shall be made to the railroad commission
accusing any railroad company or corporation of charging, collecting,
or receiving extortionate freight or passenger rates, over its line or lines
of railroad in this Commonwealth, or wher said commission shall receive information, or have reason to believe that such rate or rates are
being charged, collected or received, it shall be the duty of said commission to hear and determine the matter as speedily as possible. They
shall give the company or corporation complained of not less than ten
days' notice, by letter mailed to an officer or employ4 of said company
or corporation, stating the time and place of the hearing of same; also
the nature of the complaint or matter to be investigated, and shall hear
such statements, argument or evidence offered by the parties as the
commission may deem relevant,'and should the commission determine
that the company or corporation is, or has been, guilty of extortion,
said commission shall make and fix a just and reasonable rate, toll or
compensation, which said railroad company or corporation may charge,
collect or receive for like services thereafter rendered. The rate, toll or
compensation so fixed by the commission shall be entered and be an
order on the record book of their office and signed by the commission,
and a copy thereof mailed to an officer, agent or employ6 of the railroad
company or corporation affected thereby, and shall be in full force and
effect at the expiration of ten days thereafter, and may be revoked or
modified by an order likewise entered of record. And should said railroad company or corporation, or any officer, agent or employ6 thereof,
charge, collect or receive a greater or higher rate, toll or compensation
for like services thereafter rendered than that made and fixed by said
commission, as herein provided, said company or corporation, and said
officer, agent or employ6, shall each be deemed guilty of extortion, and
upon conviction shall be fined for the -first offense in any sum not less
than five hundred dollars, nor more than one thousand dollars, and
upon a second conviction, in any sum not less than one thousand dollars nor more than two thousand dollars, and for a third and succeeding conviction in any sum not less than two thousand dollars nor more
than five thousand dollars.
SEC. 2. The -Circuit Court of any !county into or through which the

OCTOBER TERM, 190&
Statement of the Cae.

213 U. S.

hereinafter discussed, nor has it been held valid as to all of itsprovisions, with *regard to the constitution of the State or of
the United States by any court, state or Federal.
After its passage, and in December, 1904, and January and
February, 1905, one Guenther, a citizen Of Owensboro, Kentucky, made complaints to the commission, in which he complained generally (but without specifying any-'in particular)
that the rates charged by the company, and also by the Illinois
Central Railway, and the Louisville, Henderson and St. Louis
Railway Company, on interstate freight to and from Owensboro, as compared with thd rates on like freight to and frdm
Evansville, Indiana, and on intrastatefreight to and from points
in Kentucky to and from-Owensboro, were unjust and unreasonaJble. A petition in regard to interstate rates was subsequently
filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, where it is
still pending and undetermined. ..As to regulating the local
rates complained of, the commission then made no finding.
Afterwards, Guenther prepared .an amended- complaint,
which was filed with the commission some time early in September, 1905, in which this company and all the other railroad
companies operating lines in the State of Kentucky were made
line or lines of road carrying such pamenger or freight owned or operated
by said railroad, and the Franklin Circuit Court shall have jurisdiction
of the offense against the railrbad company .or corporation offending,
:td the Circuit Court of the county where such o&fense iay be committed by said officer, agent or employ6 shall have jurisdicfion in all
prosecutions against said officer, agent or employS.
SEC. 3. Prosecutions under this act shall be by indictment.
6Ec. 4. All prosecutions under this act shall be commenced -within
two years after *theoffense shall have been committed,
Sac. 5. In making said investigation, said commission may, when
deemed necessary, take the depositions of witnesses before an examiner
or notary public, whose fee shall be paid by the State, and upon the
certificate of the chairman, of the commission, approved by the governor, the auditor shall draw his warrant upon the treasury for its
payment.
Approved March 10, 1900, Acts p. 5, ch. 2.

SILER v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 181
213 U. 0.

Statement of the Case.

defendants, and wherein it was alleged, in substance (and again
without any details), that all local freights from and to all
local points in the State of Kentucky, as fixed and charged by
the defendant railroad companies on all classes of freight, were
excessive, discriminatory and extortionate, and he prayed the
commission to revise and adjust the rates, not only in and out
of Owensboro, but to revise and adjust the rates between all'
local points from and to every local point throughout the State
of Kentucky..
Subsequently, on the fourteenth of September, 1905, three
lumber companies of Louisville, Kentucky, tendered their
petition to be made parties to the Guenther proceedings then
pending, and they adopted the general language of his complaint with respect to all local rates in the State, and they added
complaints in regard to the rates on logs, lumber and cross ties.
On the third of October, 1905, the State of Kentucky,,through
certain attorneys, filed a petition to intervene on the part of
the State in the Guenther proceedings, and sought to make the
State a party complainant against all the railroad companies
as defendants operating lines in the State.. The petition was
opposed by the company on the ground that the State had no
standing in the proceedings, and certainly none by the attorneys named, but it was granted, and the State intervened as
prayed for, and was made a party complainant so that it might
prosecute the proceedings against the company and all the
other carriers made defendants therein. The proceedings
against the various railroad companies within the State were
subsequently consolidated before the commission.
Before answering the complaints of Guenther, the lumber
companies and the State of Kentucky against the defendant
company and the other railroad companies in that State, the
company, in this case, duly objected to the proceedings before
the commission on various, giounds, among them that the complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against the company, and on the ground that the complaints
were not sufficiently definite and specific, and that the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

213 U. S.

plaints -should show specifically what rates are claimed to be
exorbitant, excessive or extortionate, or what commodity or
which communities the rates of the company discriminate
against.
An objection was also duly and in season made that the
commission had no power to fix a general maximum rate or
rates for all commodities from and to all points within the
State, but that specific complaint should be made as to the
particular rates complained of. The commission ruled that
the entire subject of railroad rates was before it, and decided to
proceed with its investigation of such rates on all railroads and
between all places and on all classes of commodities within the
State of Kentucky.
By virtue of the complaints above adverted to the proceedings
against stibstantially all the railroad companies of the State
were then continued, and the commission heard and decided
the question of rates relating to this company, and some, but
not all, of the other roads in the State.
The commission subsequently, and on July 20, 1906, promulgated its order making schedules for "Maximum Rates on
Freight," and it applied one schedule, called "Kentucky Railroad Commission's Standard Tariff, No. 1," to this company
and four other companies within the State, although in the case
of one of the four (the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company)
no notice of such tariff was ever served upon it. Another
schedule, called "Kentucky Railroad Commission's Standard
Tariff, No. 2," applied to the Illinois Central Railroad Comp.any alone, and the'commission left several railroad companies
untouched by either of such schedules, or by any schedule, although they were defendants in this proceedinq. In its opinion
the commission stated as follows: "The several complaints,
which for convenience have been consolidated and heard together in this investigation, raise for the first time in Kentucky
the question of the reasonableness of all rates for th3 transportation of all commodities upon all railroads -to and from all
points within the State."

SILER t. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 183
213 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

Mr. C. C. McChord and Mr. R. H. Winn, with whom Mr.
James Breathitt, Attorney General of the State of Kentucky,
was on the brief, for appellants:
The averment that the statute herein involved did not confer
upon the commission the power to fix the rates complained of,
took out of the case all basis of a claim of Federal jurisdiction.
Louisville v. Cumberland Tel. Co., 15-5 Fed. Rep. 729; Barney
v. New York, 193 U. S. 437; S.C.,.132 Fed. Rep. 901; S. C.,
138 Fed. Rep. 184; Raymond v. Chicago, 207 U. S. 20.
The statute sought to be condemned clothes the commission
with the power of establishing just ahd reasonable rates,' a function which can be conferred by the legislature, whether empowered by the constitution of the State or not, and which is rather
an adjunct to the legislative, than the judicial power.
A judicial hearing is not necessary to the fixinig of a rate.
Railroad Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; Fitts v. McGhee, 172
U. S. 516; Railroad Co. v. Nebraska, 170 U. S. 57; State v. Railroad, 33 Kansas, 176; N. Y. Health Dept. v. Trinity Church, 145
N. Y. 32; San Diego v. Nat'l City, 174 U. S. 740; Railroad Co.
v. Board of Commrs.,. 78 Fed. Rep. 258.
Making a rate is not a judicial function. Prentis v. Atlantic
Coast Line, 211 U. S. 210; Atl. C. L. v. North Carolina, 206
U. S. 20; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Reagan v. Trust Co.,
154 U. S. 362; Lake Shore v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684; Railroad Co.
v. Gill, 156 U. S. 664; Railroad Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339;
RailroadCo. v. Blake, 94 U. S. 180; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.
113; Stone v. Trust Co., 116 U..S. 307; Storrs v. Railroad, 29
Florida, 617; Ga. Railroad Co. v. Smith, 128 U. S. 174; Dow v.
Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517;
Coy. Turnpike Co. v. Saiford, 164 U. S. 578.
The Kentucky act of March 10, 1900, does not confer judicial power'on the commission, and the making of a rate is not
the enforcement of a judgment-or the infliction of a penalty.
McChord V. L &N.', 183 U. S. 483; L. & N, R. R. Co. v. Commonwealth, 183 U. S. 505; West. Un. Tcl. Co. v. Myatt, 98 Fed.
Rep. 341, 345; State v. Johison, 60 Pac. Rep. 1068; Railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellants.

213 U. S.

Co. v. Inter8. Corn. Com., 162 U. S. 184; Inters. Com. Com. v.
Railroad Co., 167 U. S. 507; Inters. Com. Com. v. RailroadCo.,
168 U. S. 144; State v. Wilson, 28 S. E. Rep. 554.
The act is not unconstitutional because it does not expressly
provide for a judicial investigation or a hearing as to the reasonableness of the rate after it is fixed. Prentis v. Atd. C. L., 211
U. S.210; Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516; Railroad Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; Railroad Co. v. Trammel, 53 Fed. Rep.
1q7.
The act of March 10, 1900, does not violate the state consti• tution. L. & N. V. Commonwealth, 46 S. W. Rep. 707; Pennington v. Woolfolk, 79 Kentucky, 13; Stone, Auditor, v. Wilson,
19 Ky. Law Rep. 126; Morton v. Woolford, 99 Kentucky, 367.
A state statute relating to commerce is presumed to relate
only to domestic commerce in absence of an expressed relation
to interstate or foreign commerce., L. & N. v. Kentucky, 183
U.S. 505; Munn v. Illinois, 94 Illinois, 113, Stone v. Trust Co.,
116 U. S. 307; Wabash R. R. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557; Railroad Co. v. Jones, 149 Illinois, 384; Endlich on Interp. of Stat.,
§ 169.
This is but an exemplification of the general rule which presumes statutes to be constitutional. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.
466; Reagan v. Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362; Railroad Co. v. Smith,
173 UT. S. 684; Railroad Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339; Southern Pac. v. R. R. Com., 78 Fed. Rep. 236; RaiiroadCo. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 173.
The bills of complaint do not claim that there is no state
commerce. That there is such is settled beyond question. Railroad v. Lander, 20 Ky. Law Rep. 913; Railroad Co. v. Mississippi, 133 U. S. 587; RailroadCo. Pennsylvania, 145 U. S.
192; Tiedeman on State and Fed. Control, 1056'; Plassey v.
Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537" Stone v. Trust Co., 116 U. S. 307; C.
& 0. R. R. v. Kentucky, 179 U. S. 388.
That state and interstate commerce- may be intermingled,
and have a close relation one to the other, does not prevent the
State from controlling that which is state or domestic com-

SILER
213 U. S.

t.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 185
Argument for Appellants.

merce. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Railroad Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167; Reagan v. Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362.
There are no excessive or cumulative penalties for second,
third and succeeding convictions under the act of March 10,
1908. 12 Cycl. Law & Pro. 949; Brown v. Kentucky, 100 Kentucky, 127; S. C., 37 S. W. Rep. 496; Wilson v. Kentucky, 26 Ky.
Law Rep. 685; Standard Oil Cases, 87 S. W. Rep. 1092, 1131;"
S. C., 29 Ky. Law Rep. 20; Cawein v. Kentucky, 22 Ky. Law
Rep. 1736; Parishv. N. C. & St. L. Ry., 49 Am. Rep. 655;
S. C., 13 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law (2d ed.), 65; Ex ParteSnow,
120 U. S. 274.
The essential elements of "due process" are reasonable
notice and a fair opportunity to be heard, Davison v. New
Orleans, 96 U. S. 102; Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land Co., 18
How. 272; Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114; Iowa Cent.
R. R. v. Iowa, 204 U. S. 255; Wilson v. North Carolina, 169
U. S. 586; Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 535; Paulsonv. Portland, 149 U. S. 41; Hibben v. Smith, 191 U. S. 393; L. & N. v.
Schmidt, 177 U. S. 236.
The State may distinguish, select and classify objects of legislation without denying equal protection of the laws. Missouri Ry. Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 209; Barbierv. Connolly, 113
U. S. 32; Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703; Ky. Ry. Tax
Cases, 115 U. S. 322; Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S.
606; Pac. Exp. Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 339; Orient &c. v.
Daggs, 172 U. S. 562; New York &c. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 571.
That a different rate may be made for different roads constitutes neither arbitrary power nor unjust discrimination, so long
as the rule by which the rates are fixed is uniform. Reagan v.
Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362; Railroad Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S.
167; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 540, 547; S. C., 64 Fed. Rep.
165; 'Coy. Turnpike v. Sanford, 164 U. S. 578; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Railroad Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 664; Railroad
Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; Railroad Co. v. Iowa,;94 U. S.
164; Stone v. Trust Co., 116 U. S. 307; Storrs v. Railroad Co.,
29 Florida, 617; S' C., 11 So. Rep. 227; Ruggles v. Illinois,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellants.

218 U. S.

108 U. S. 526; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517; Commonwealth v. Coy. Bridge, 14 Ky. Law Rep. 836.
Classification proceeding on any difference which has a reasonable relation to the subject-matter sought to be accomplished is unobjectionable, though inequality results. Railroads have always formed a separate and distinct class. Railroad Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96; Barbier v. Connolly, 113
U. S. 27; Williams v. Mississippi, 170 U. S. 214; Grundling v.
Chicago, 177 U. S. 183; Budd v. New York 143 U. S. 517; Dow
v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680; Magoun v. Trust Co., *170 U. S.
282; Orient Ins. Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 560; Railroad Co. v.
McKee, 127 U. S. 205; Railroad Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S.26;
Bowman v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22; Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S.68;
Soov,.Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703.
Tlie police power of the State relating to the regulation of
the rates of common carriers cannot be bargained away. L. &.
N. R. R. v. Kentucky, 183 U. S.505; Stone v. Mississippi, 101
U. S.814; Douglas v. Commonwealth, 168 U. S.488; Fertilizing (o. v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659; L. & N. R. R. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S.677; Boston Beer Co. v. Massachusetts,97 U. S.
25; N. 0. Gas Light Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S.650;
Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.623; Slaughter House Cases, 111
U. S.746; Ruggles v. Illinois, 108 U. S. 536; New Jersey v.
Yard, 95 U. S.104; Stone v. Trust Co., 116 U. S.307; Railroad
Co. v. Illinois, 146 U. S.387; Railroad Co. v. Nebraska, 170
U. S.57; RailroadGo. v. Bristol, 151 U. S.556; Railroad Co. v.
Defiance, 167 U. S.88;. Pearsall v. Railroad Co., 161 U. S.648;.
Railroad Co. v. Transp. Co., 25 W. Va. 324.
For a charter provision to amount to an irrevocable contract
fixing rates for all time, it must be clear, to the exclusion of a
reasonable doubt, and must contain words exempting the corporation from future control. Merely to fix a maximum rate
in the charter is not sufficient. Tiedeman on State and Federal
Control, 952, 955; Russell on Police Powers, 127, 128; Cent.
Transp. Co. v. Pullman, 139 U. S.49; Minolt v. Railroad Co.,
18 Wall. 204; Bailey v. Magwire, 22 Wall. 215; Stone v. Wis-

SILER v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 187
213 U. S.

Argument for Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.

consin, 94 U. S. 181; FertilizingCo. v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659;
Ruggles v. Illinois, 108 U. S.536; S. C., 91 Illinois, 262; Railroad Co. v. Illinois, 108 U. S.541; Stone v. Trust Co., 116 U. S.
307, 347; Banking Co. v. Smith, 128 U. S. 174; Railroad Co. v.
Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418, 467; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466;
Turnpike v. Sanford, 164 U. S. 578; Commonweath v. Covington
Bridge, 21 S. W. Rep. 1042; RailroadCo. v. Miller, 132 U. S. 75;
Winchester Turnpike Co. v. Croxton, 98 Kentucky, 739; Ragan
v. Aiken, 9 Lea (Tenn.), 610; Water Co. v. Fergus, 178 Illinois,
571; Danville v. Water Co., 178 Illinois, 399; S. C., 53'N. E.
Rep. 118; S.C., 180 Illinois, 235; S.C., 54 N. E. Rep. 224;
Water Co. v. Freeport, 57 N. E. Rep. 862.
A reservatibn of the right to alter, amend or repeal, expressed either in a general law or in the charter prevents a provision from becoming an irrevocable contract. Tiedeman on
State and Federal Control, 980; Citizens' Savings Bank v.
Owensboro, 173 U. S.636.
Mr. Henry Lane Stone, for Louisville & Nashville Railroad
Company:
The ruling of the court below sustaining its jurisdiction was
correct. The allegations of the amended bill bring the case
within the decision of this court in Raymond v. Chicago Traction Co., 207 U. S.20.
The principle is well settled that where a Circuit Court of
the United States once obtains jurisdiction of a cause, it may
proceed to determine all questions involved therein, whether
state or Federal. Osborne v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat.
822, 823; Elliott v. Peirsol,1 Pet. 340; Mayor v. Cooper, 6 Wall.
252; Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U.S. 264; Railroad Co. v. Mississippi, 102 U. S.135, 141; Fallbrook IrrigationDistrict v. Bradley, 164 U. S.154; Omaha Horse Ry. Co. v. Cable Tram-Way
Co., 32 Fed. Rep. 727, 729; People's Savings Bank v. Layman,
134 Fed. Rep. 635, 641; Michigan R. R. Tax Cases, 138 Fed.
Rep. 223, 230.
The decree appealed from, therefore, should be affirmed, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument fo Louisville & Nashville R. R.'Co.

213 U. S.

it may be upheld and.sustained upon any of the grounds relied
on by appellee whether or not they arise under the Constitution
and laws of the United States.
As the McChord Act undertakes to vest in the railroad commission, an administrative body, legislative, executive and
judicial powers, it violates §§ 27, 28, 109 and 135 of the Kentucky constitution and is, therefore, unconstitutional. Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co. v. McChord, 103 Fed. Rep. 222;
Roberts v. Hackney, 109 Kentucky, 265; Pratt v. Breckinridge,
114 Kentucky, 1; McChord v; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.,
183 U. S. 495; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Cin., N. 0.
& Texas Pacific Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 499.
Neither the said statute nor any other Kentucky statute
provides for any judicial investigation or review on the reasonableness of any rate fixed by the commission for services of a
carrier thereafter to be rendered, before th carrier is required
to put them into force and effect. The making of such order
conclusive as to the sufficiency of the rate fixed, deprivyes the
carrier of its property without due process of law, and denies it
the equal protection of the law, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 458; Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.
154 U. S. 399; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. McChord,
103 Fed. Rep. 224; Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Tompkins,
176 U. S. 172; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 518; Detroit v. Detroit
Citizens' Street Ry. Co., 184 U. S. 38i; Hagar v. Reclamation
District, 111 U. S. 708; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 107;
Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S. 418; Violett v. Alexandria, 92 Virginia, 561, 569; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co. v. Central Stock Yards Co., 212 U. S. 132;
Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S. 409.
The McChord Act does not in its title or provisions authorize
the commission to prescribe and establish schedules of maximum rates or tariffs, as is attempted by the order of Jluly 20,
1906. The principal object of the act was to amend § 816, Kentucky statutes, which had been held by the Court of Appeals

SILER v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 189
213 U. S.

Argument for Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.

to be unconstitutional and void, L. & N. R. -R. Co. v. McChord,
99 Kentucky, 132, and there is no suggestion looking to the
granting of power to the commission to make schedules of
maximum rates. It is impossible to conceive that the legislature would require a road like the Louisville & Nashville with
1,300 miles of road and 700 stations to publish and put into
force a rate schedule in ten days. The legislature is presumed
to have had before it the acts of other States creating railroad
commissions and defining their powers, and apt and clear language would have been employed, if it had been the intention
to clothe the commission with this important and far-reaching
power. No railroad commission of any State has ever assumed
such power except where expressly granted.
Powers of railroad commissions are limited, and the statutes
granting such powers must be strictly construed. Chicago, I.
& L. Ry.Co. v. R. R. Commissioners of Indiana, 38 Ind. App.
439; State v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 16 S.D. 517; S. C.,
94 N. W. Rep. 407; Board of R. R. Commrs. v. Oregon Ry. &
Nay. Co., 17 Oregon, 65; S. C., 19 Pac. Rep. 702; Interstate
Com. Comm. v. C., N. 0. & T. P. Ry. Co., 167 U. S.479; Chicago, B. & Q. Ry.Co. v. Dey, 38 Fed. Rep. 636; LAuisville &
Nashville R. R. Co. v. McChord, 103 Fed. Rep. 216.
The complaints on which the rate order was made were insufficient to give jurisdiction to or authorize said commission to
make such order or to prescribe and establish maximum rates
even if the act empowered the commission to establish and prescribe maximum rates on complaints of any character or uhder
any circumstances.
The commission acted beyond its power in attempting to
prohibit the railroad company from increasing or advancing
any rate or rates it had or has in force and effect on any commodity or commodities belonging to either of the classes set out
in the commodity clause in "Standard -Tariff No. 1," iotwithstanding the fact that such rates had not .beea found by said
commission to be extortionate.
The said order hows on its face that the maximum rates

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

therein prescribed were made applicable to some roads and not
for the same distances and on the same classes of freight to all
the other railroad companies operating lines in Kentucky,
thereby depriving this appellee of equal protection of the laws.
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. McChord, 103 Fed. Rep. 216;
Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock
Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356;
Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Chicago Great Western Ry. Co.,
209 U. S. 108; L. & N. R. R. Co. v. R. R. Comm. of Tennessee,
19 Fed. Rep. 679; Terre Haute & Indianapolis R. R. Co. v.
State, 159 Indiana, 438.
Mr. Edmund F. Trabue, with whom Mr. John C. Doolan,
Mr. Attilla Cox, Junior, and Mr. J. M. Dickinson were on the
brief, for Illinois Central Railroad Company.
Mr. John Galvin, with whom Mr. Edward Colston and Mr.
Maurice L. Galvin were on the brief, for the Cincinnati, New
Orleans and Texas Pacific Railway Company.
Mr. Alexander Pope Humphrey, filed a brief in behalf of the
Southern Railway Company in Kentucky.
after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM,

The appellants deny the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in
this case. There is no diverse citizenship in the case of this
particular company, and the jurisdiction must depend upon
the presence of a Federal question. The bill filed by the company herein attacked the validity of the act of the legislature
of Kentucky. of March 10, 1900 (above set forth in full), on
several grounds, as in violation of § 1 of the Foufteenth
Amendment. It was also averred that the act was a violation
of § 4, Art. IV, of the Federal Constitution, in that it constituted an abandonment by the State of Kentucky of a repub-

SILER v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 191
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lican form of government, in so far as it vested legislative,
executive and judicial powers of an absolute and arbitrary
nature over railroad carriers in one body or tribunal, styled the
railroad commission. The company also contended that the
act was in violation of the Federal Constitution, on account of

the enormous fines and penalties provided in the act as a punishment for a violation of any of its provisions; also that the
enforcement of the act would operate to deprive the company
of its property without due process. of law, and would deny
to it the equal protection of the laws, in violation of § 1 of
Art. XIV, of the Amendments to the Constitution of the United
States. Other grounds of alleged invalidity of the act in question, as in violation of the Federal Constitution, are set up in
the bill. The bill also contained the averment that the order
of the railroad commission of Kentucky, in making a general
schedule of maxirpum rates for the railroads mentioned in its
order, was invalid, as unauthorized by the statute. This is, of
course, a local or state question.
The Federal questions, as to the invalidity of the state statute
because, as alleged, it was in violation of the Federal Constitution, gave the Circuit Court jurisdiction, and, having properly
obtained it, that court had the right to decide all the questions
in the case, even though it decided the Federal questions adversely to the party raising them, or even if it omitted to decide
them at all, but decided the case on local or state questions
only.
This court has the same right, and can, if it deem it proper,
decide the local questions only, and omit to decide the Federal
questions, or decide them adversely to the party claiming their
benefit. Homer v. United States (No. 2),_ 143 U. S. 570, 576;
Fallbrook Irrigation Dist. v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 154; Penn
Mutual Life InsuranceCo. v. Austin, 168 U. S. 685, 694; Burton
v. United States, 196 U. S. 283, 295; Williamson v. United States,
207 U. S. 425; People's Savings Bank v. Layman, 134 Fed. Rep.
635; Michigan Railroad Tax Cases, 138 Fed. Rep. 223. Of
course, the Federal question must not be merely colorable or

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

fraudulently set up for the mere purpose of endeavoring to give
the court jurisdiction. Penn Mutual Life Insurance Co. v.
Austin, 168 U. S. 685, 695; Michigan Railroad Tax Cases, 138
Fed. Rep. 223, supra.
The character of some of the Federal questions raised is such
as to show that they are not merely colorable, and have not been
fraudulently raised for the purpose of attempting to give jurisdiction to a Federal court.
The appellants, however, contend that the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court did not attach under the Fourteenth Amendment,
because of the allegations contained in the bill of the company,
in which was contained an averment that the defendants below
(the appellants here) had not been vested with the power, by
either the constitution of the State of Kentucky or' by any act
of its legislature, or by any law, to make and enter the order
of July 20, 1906, complained of in the company's bill. The argument of the appellants is that in order to violate the Fourteenth Amendment the action complained of must be under the
authority of the State, and where the allegation of the bill was
that "no power or authority had been vested in or conferred
upon the appellants by the act of March 10, 1900, or by any
law, to make or fix the rates complained of," such allegations
swept away the foundation for the claim of Federal jurisdiction,
inasmuch as in such case the action of the railroad commission
was not the action of the State, and the principle decided in
Barney v. City of New York, 193 U. S. 430, 437, was applicable.
If the averment as to the invalidity of the order of the commission were the only ground upon which a Federal question
was founded, and if the bill alleged that the order was inv-lid
because it was not authorized by the State, either by statute
or in any other way, the objection might be good, but the bill
sets up several Federal questions. Some of them are directed
to the invalidity of the statute itself, on the ground that it
violates various named provisions of the Federal Constitution
in addition to and other than the Fourteenth Amendment,
while some of the other Federal questions are founded upon.the

SILER v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 193
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

terms of the order made by the commission, under what is
claimed by the commission to be the authority of the. statute.
The bill also sets up several local questions arising from the
terms of the order, -and which the company claims are unauthorized by the statute. The various questions are entirely
separate from each other. Under these circumstances there can
be no doubt that the Circuit Court obtained jurisdiction over
.the. case by virtue of the Federal questions set up in the bill,
without reference to the particular violation set up in regard
to the Fourteenth Amendment.
Where a case in this court can be decided without reference
to questions arising under the Federal Constitution, that course
is usually pursued and is not departed from without important
reasons. In this case we think it much better to decide it with
regard to the question of a local nature, involving the" construction of the state statute and the authority therein given
to the commission to make the order in question, rather than
to unnecessarily decide the various constitutional questions
appearing in the record.
The commission has assumed the power under this statute of
making what are termed general maximum rates for the transportation of all commodities upon all railroads to and from all
points within the State, and this company is included in the
general order made by the commission. This is an enormous
power. Jurisdiction so extensive and comprehensive as must
exist in a commission in the making of rates by one general
tariff upon all classes of commodities upon all the railroads
throughout the State is not to be implied. The proper establishment of reasonable rates upon all commodities carried by
railroads, and relating to each and all of them within the State
depends upon so many facts which may be very different in
regard to each road, that it is plain the work ought not to be
attempted without a profound and painstaking investigation,
which could not be intelligently or with discrimination accomplished by wholesale. It may be matter of surprise to find
such power granted to any commission, although it would seem
VOL. ccxiii-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

that it has in some cases been attempted. Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Railway Co., 167 U. S. 479, 495. In any event,
the jurisdiction of the commission to establish all rates at one
time and in regard to all commodities on all railroads in the
State, on a general and comprehensive complaint to the commission that all rates are too high, or upon like information of
the commission itself, must be conferred in plain language. The
commission, as an extraordinary tribunal of the State, must
have the power herein exercised conferred by a statute in language free from doubt. The power is not to be taken by implication; it must be given by language which admits of no
other reasonable construction.
In this case we are without the benefit of a construction of
the statute by the highest state court of Kentucky, and we
must proceed in the absence of state adjudication upon the
subject. Nevertheless, we are compelled to the belief that the
statute does not grant to the commission any such great and
extensive power as it has assumed to exercise in making the
order in question.
The first section of the statute provides for a complaint being
made to the commission accusing the railroad company of
charging or receiving extortionate freight or passenger rates
over its lines of railroad in that State; or if the commission
receive information or have reason to believe that such rate or
rates are being charged, it is its duty ,in
either case to hear and
determine the matter as speedily as possible. The commission
is to give the company complained' of not less than ten days'
notice, and the notice must contain a statement of the nature
of the complaint or matter to be investigated, and if the commission, after investigation of the complaint or on its own information, determines that the company has been guilty of
extortion the commission is in that case authorized to make
and fix "a just and reasonable rate, toll or compensation which
said railroad company or corporation shall charge, collect or
.receive for like service thereafter rendered." The whole section,
it seems to us, proceeds upon the assumption that complaint

SILER v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 195
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

shall be made of some particular rate or rates being charged,
or, if without formal complaint, the commission receives information or has reason to believe that such rate or rates are
being charged, then the investigation is to go on in relation to
those particular rates. We cannot for one moment believe
that under such language as is contained in the section the commission is clothed with jurisdiction, either upon complaint or
upon its own information, to enter upon a general investigation
of every rate upon every class of commodities carried by all
the roads of the State from or to all points therein, and make
a general tariff of rates throughout the State, such as has been
made in this case. No such power was given to the Interstate
Commerce Commission. Interstate Commerce Con', ission v.
Cincinnati &c. Railway Co., 167 U. S. 479, supra. ks the express power was not given in so many words to the commission,
this court held that it could not be implied.
The so-called complaints in this case, above mentioned, are,
as we construe the statute, entirely too general to raise any
objection to a specific rate. Guenther, in his petition, in substance, alleged "that all local freight rates to and from all local
points in the State of Kentucky, as fixed and charged by all
railroads on all classes of freight, are excessive, discriminatory
a&d extortionate." The lumber companies, which were per-.
mitted to intervene, made, substantially, the same complaint
*(with an addition as to lumber, ties and logs), and the attorneys
appearing in behalf of the State of Kentucky joined in the general complaint of Guenther. If complaint were necessary to
enable the commission to make rates, the allegations in the
complaint of Guenther were mere sweeping generalities, and
were in no sense whatever a fair or honest compliance with the
statute. The commission itself, in order to act, must have had
some information or had some reasons to believe athat certain
rates were extortionate, and it could not, under this statute, enter upon a general attack upon all the rates of all the companies
throughout the State and make an order such as this in question. Such action is, in our judgment, founded upon a total

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

misconstruction of the statute and an assumption on the part
of the commission of a right and power to do that which the
statute itself gives it no authority whatever to do.
And again, the section provides that if the commission should
determine that the company had been guilty of extortion, it
must, instead of the extortionate rate, make and fix a reasonable
and just rate which the company may charge foi its service
thereafter rendered. This language is not apt by which to
confer power to establish a schedule of rates applicable in all
cases to all commodities and on all roads, and on the contrary
it strengthens the view that no such general jurisdiction to
establish rates in all cases for all roads throughout the State
by a general tariff was in the contemplation of the framers of
the statute.
It may also be stated that if the statute was really intended
to give the Commission power to make a general schedule of
rates, we should expect to find, almost necessarily, a right to
increase as well as to reduce those rates in some instances, in
order to produce an equality, where, otherwise, great inequalities might exist as a result of the putting the general schedule
of reductions in force. Here is a case where the schedule of rates
was reduced from twenty to twenty-five per cent upon an average. Some of the rates not touched might require increase in
order to make the whole schedule fair and reasonable, and yet
the commission could not make the increase over the amount
theretofore collected by the company. This seems to us to be
a very strong argument in favor of the view that the legislature
never intended to and did not in fact give such a power to establish general maximum rates, but confined it to one or two or
a few specified rates, which might be reduced upon complaint,
and where there might be a real investigation of all the problems
involved in the propriety of the reduction in a few distinct and
separate cases. A sufficient investigation of the whole series
of rates on all the roads in the State by one commission is almost an impossibility, and an attempt to do so would prove a
failure, and would, in all probability, result in gross injustice

SILER v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 197
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the roads. The statute, it will be remembered, gives no
power to the commission to fix rates, unless it has already determined that the rates complained of, or which it has investigated upon its own information, are extortionate after hearing
the parties, and then it fixes the rates at a just and reasonable
amount. If no extortion is found in any particular rate there
can be no fixing of rates in that particular. And yet that particular rate might require increase in order to make the whole
schedule just, fair and reasonable. A general power to fix rates
under such limitations cannot be supposed to have been within
the intent of the legislature. The difference between the fixing
of one rate, or a few upon specific complaint or information,
and the adoption of a general scheme of rates applicable in all
cases to all the roads, is vast and important. In the one case
it can be fairly accomplished, while in the other the chances of
injustice and great inequalities are infinite and almost certain
to occur.
We do not say that under this statute, as we construe it, there
must be a separate proceeding or complaint for each separate
rate. A complaint, or a proceeding on information by the commission itself, in regard to any road, may include more than
the rate on one commodity or more than one rate, but there
must be some specific complaint or information in regard to
each rate to be investigated, and there can be, under this statute, no such wholesale complaint, which by its looseness and
its generalities can be made applicable to every rate in operation
on a railroad, or upon several or all of the railroads of the State.
If the legislature intended to give such an universal and allprevailing power it is not too much to say that the language
used in giving it should be so plain as not to permit of doubt
as to the legislative intent.
The appellantscontend that in any event the order made ,by
the commission December 7, 1905, regarding rates on lumber,
logs and cross ties, to and from all points in the State, ought
to stand as reasonable and proper. The complaint made by the
lumber dealers in their petition to intervene in the Guenther

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

proceeding adopted the language of that petition as to all rates
upon all commodities upon all roads throughout the State, and
then added a specific complaint as to the logs, &c. While the
whole proceeding as to all rates was pending before the commission it took up as part of it, the question of the reasonableness of all the rates on lumber to and from all points in the State.
This proceeding is, therefore, but a part of the whole proceeding
involving an investigation as to every rate on all commodities
on every road throughout the State, and we do not think it a
case where a particular rate on a specific commodity, applicable
all through the State upon all roads, should be separated from
the general order, when the specific order was made after the
general complaint was filed and is itself a general order, and was
made by the commission in the exercise of an assumed power
claimed to be given by the statute, which claim we hold was
totally unfounded. We therefore think that in this particular
case the order as to lumber rates must fall with the rest of the
assumed jurisdiction of the commission.
There is nothing in our decision in McChord v. L. & N. R. R.,
183 U. S. 483, which affects the question discussed in this
opinion.
We are of opinion that under the statute the commission
had no authority to make a general tariff of rates, and the final
decree of the Circuit Court is for that reason

.Affirmd.

