BOQUILLAS CATTLE CO. v. CURTIS.
213 U. S.

Syllabus.

hearing of the motion at an early day. Nevertheless the sheriff
proceeded with the sale as it had been advertised, on the day
before that fixed for the hearing, and sold three lots of land,
at a very inadequate price, to Van Gieson, an assistant of his.
He gave notice pending the sale that at the fall of the hammer
he should require a deposit of fifty per cent of the purchase
money for each parcel then unsold, a condition not contained'
in the notice of sale and not enforced against Van Gieson.
The bill is founded on the alleged defects in the proceedings
before execution as well as in the. sale and prays to have the
judgment declared void, and, as we have said, the sale set
aside. The Supreme Court of the Territory set aside the sale
and upon the plaintiff paying into court the amount of the
judgment ordered a reconveyance, whereupon Van Gieson appealed to this court.
The ground on which the Supreme Court went was the single
short point that the existence of the order, whether valid or
not, was what made the sale disastrous. We see no reason
for not accepting this conclusion. However vexatious the conduct of the appellee may have been, his property should not
be sacrificed by reason of the act of a court.
Decree affirmed.

BOQUILLAS LAND AND CATTLE COMPANY v. CURTIS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.

No. 133.

Argued April 7, 1909.-Decided April 19, 1909.

Under § 3198, Rev. Stat. of Arizona of 1887, the common-law doctrine
of riparian rights does not now obtain in that Territory, and, as held
by the Supreme Court of the Territory, the doctrine of appropriation
was recognized and to some extent in force prior to and since 1833 in
the State of Sonora now a part of that Territory.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellant.

213 U. S.

Confirmation of an estate does not enlarge it, and where the original
Mexican title did not carry riparian rights the mere confirmation
thereof by the United States does not give such rights to the confirmee.
The legislative act of Arizona, Howell's Code of 1864, c. 61, § 7, adopting
the common law of England was merely the adoption of a general
system of law in place of the Spanish Mexican general system which
was simultaneously repealed, and the regulation of and rights to water
were by the same act made subject to the natural and physical condition of the Territory and the necessities of its people; and this court
sustains the Supreme Court of the Territory in its interpretations of
the qualifications imposed on the general adoption of the common
law in respect to the use of water.
The right to use water is not confined under the customary law of Arizona to the riparian proprietors. Where the riparian proprietor is
entitled under a general statute to have the damages to his land taken
for withdrawal of water by appropriators assessed, the decree below
will not be disturbed because no provision was made for compensation, it appearing in this case that the objection was technical and the
point was not discussed below
89 Pac. Rep. 504, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Eugene S. Ives for appellant:
Riparian rights once vested are property rights and cannot
be taken away except by the exercise of the right of emiLong on Irrigation, § 12; Black's Pomeroy
nent domain.
on Water Rights, § 9; Lux v. Haggin, 69 California, 255; Sturr
v. Beck, 133 U. S. 541; 1 Farnham on Water Rights, 282;
Benton v. Johncox, 17 Washington, 277; S. C., 39 L. R. A.
107; 61 Am. St. Rep. 912; Clark v. Cambridge &c. Co., 45 Nebraska, 798; S. C., 64 N. W. Rep. 239; Yates v. Milwaukee,
10 Wall. 497; Potomac Steamboat Co. v. Upper Potomac Steamboat Co., 109 U. S. 672; Delaplaine v. Railway Co., 42 Wisconsin, 214; Belle v. Gough, 23 N, J. Law, 624; Water Co. v.
Raff, 36 N. J. Law, 635; Crawford'Co. v. Hathaway, 67 Nebraska, 325; Bigelow v. Draper,6 N. Dak. 152; S. C., 69 N. W.
Rep. 570.
Appellant's ownership within the Mexican grant having been

BOQUILLAS CATTLE CO. v. CURTIS
213 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

continucus since the date of the grant the patent operated as
a consummation of such title, and also as a quit-claim of whatever interest the United States acquired by the cession. Beard
v. Federy, 3 Wall. 478; Knight v. Land Association, 142 U. S.
161; Herrick v. Boquillas Land Co., 200 U. S.96; Sturr v. Beck,
133 U. S. 541;, Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S.330.
The patent issued by the United States conveyed to the appellant all rights which the United States may have had in
the waters of the San Pedro River. Revised Statutes U. S.,
§§ 2339, 2340.
The effect of these statutes has been definitely settled by
this court, and the conclusion reached is that the provisions
quoted were a voluntary recognition of a preexisting right of
possession, constituting a valid claim to the continued use and
not the establishment of a new one. Broder v. Water Co., 101
U. S.274; .Atchison v. Peterson, 20 Wall. 507; Basey v. Gallagher, 20 Wall. 670.
The common law doctrine of riparian rights was adopted by
the first legislature of Arizona in the code of laws known as the
Howell Code. Article 22, Bill of Rights, Howell's Code; Howell's Code, Chapter 55, §§ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 17, 25.
The provisions of the Howell Code are not inconsistent with
or repugnant to the rights of the riparian proprietor at common law. Crawford Co. v. Hathaway, 67 Nebraska, 325; S. C.,
93 N. W. Rep. 781; Thorpe v. Tenem Ditch Co., 1 Washington,
566; Ellis v. Pomeroy Improv. Co., 1 Washington, 572; Geddis
v. Parrish,1 Washington, 587; Crook v. Hewitt, 4 Washington,
749; Rigney v. Tacoma Light & W. Co., 9 Washington, 576;
Isaacs v. Barber, 10 Washington, 124; Benton v. Johncox, 17
Washington, 277; Lone Tree Ditch Co. v. Cyclone Ditch Co., 15
S. D. 519.
Under the Mexican law the right of a riparian owner to the
use of water was superior to that of a subsequent appropriator.
Such right was preserved and guaranteed by the treaty of cession and could not afterwards be affected by territorial legislation. Kinney on Irrigation, § 292.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

Mr. H. L. Pickett and Mr. Ben Goodrich, for appellees, submitted:
The common law doctrine of riparian rights does not prevail.
in Arizona in favor of the owners of land derived by grant from
the State of Sonora prior to the Gadsden Purchase of 1854.
The provisions of the Howell Code are wholly inconsistent
with the doctrine of riparian rights. Stowell v. Johnson, 26
Pac. Rep. 290; Clough v. Wing, 17 Pac. Rep. 453; Willey v.
Decker, 73 Pac. Rep. 211; Boquillas Land & Cattle Co. v. Curtis
et at., 89 Pac. Rep. 504.
Even if the common law doctrine of riparian
rights evep
of
the legisabrogated
by
the
act
in
Arizona,
it
was
did obtain
lature of March 10, 1887, Rev. Stat. Arizona, 1887, § 3198, which
reads as follows:
"The common law doctrine of riparian water rights shall
not obtain or be of any force or effect in this Territory." See
United States v. Rio Grande Dam & IrrigationCo., 174 U. S. 703.
MR. JusTiE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.
N

This is a bill in equity brought by the appellant to prevent the
defendants from withdrawing water from the San Pedro River
and from building for that purpose a dam and ditch upon and
through the plaintiff's land. The plaintiff owns a tract extending on both sides of the river for about fourteen and one-half
miles and reaching back from the river for a mile and one-eighth
on each side. It derives its title from a grant of the State of
Sonora in 1833, confirmed by a decree of the Court of Private
Land Claims on February 14, 1899, and a patent from the
United States in pursuance of the decree, dated December 14,
1900. By reason of disputes before the date of the patent and
wrongful disputes since, the plaintiff has not made actual use
of all the waters of the river, although they are not sufficient
to irrigate all the plaintiff's land that admits of irrigation. It
has constructed no dams, canals or the like, and has not taken
the water except for watering stock and other similar uses of

BOQUILLAS CATTLE CO. v. CURTIS.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

it in its natural flow. The defendants threaten and intend to
build a dam, as alleged, in place of one built in 1903, but washed
out, and to build and rebuild a ditch through land of the plaintiff to another ditch already established, and to divert the
water through the same to land of theirs on the north. They
set up no title except that they have been the first to appro-.
priate the water. The plaintiff claims as riparian owner, and
argues that as such it has a right that cannot be taken from it
by simple appropriation. The territorial court of first instance
and the Supreme Court dismissed the bill, 89 Pac. Rep. 504,
and the plaintiff appealed to this court.
It is not denied that what is called the cowmon law doctrine
of riparian water rights does not obtain in Arizona at the present
day, Rev. Stats. Arizona, 1887, § 3198, but the plaintiff contends that it had acquired such rights before'that statutory
declaration, and that it cannot be deprived of them nbw. So
far as the claim is rested on the original grant and the Mexican
law it may be disposed of in a few words, without going into
all the questions that would have to be answered before an opposite conclusion could be reached. "Whatever may have been
the general law throughout the Republic. of Mexico on the
subject of water, it is reasonably certain that in the State of
Sonora the doctrine of appropriation, as now recognized, was
to some extent in force by custom. In this Territory irrigation
was practiced in the Santa Cruz Valley prior to the cession and
it is well known the right of appropriation without regard to
the riparian character of the lands was there in force probably
from the time when the Spaniards first settled in the valley.
Our statutes, as well as those of New Mexico, seem to have had
their origin in the Mexican law as modified by custom." This
is the statement of the territorial court, and we know nothing
to control it. It is not met by arguments as to the general
character of Mexican law, or by inference from the situation
and nature of the grant. The same doctrine seems to be implied by the Howell Code, ch. 55, § 25, which we shall refer to
again.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

The plaintiff draws another argument from the effect of the
United States patent. It contends that the patent not only
confirms the Mexican title but releases that of the United States,
Beard v. Federy, 3 Wall. 478, 491, and that by the grant from
the United States it gained rights as a riparian proprietor that
could not be displaced by a subsequent attempt to appropriate
the water. Sturr v. Beck, 133 U. S. 541. But while it is true
that in Beard v. Federy, sup., Mr. Justice Field calls such a patenta quit-claim, we think it rather should be described as a confirmation in a strict sense. "Confirmation is the approbation
or assent to an estate already created, which, as far as is in the
confirmer's power makes it good and valid: so that the confirmation doth not regularly create an estate; but yet such
words may be mingled in the confirmation, as may create and
enlarge an estate; but that is by force of such words that are
foreign to the business of confirmation." Gilbert, Tenures, 75.
-It is not to be understood that when the United States executes
a document on the footing of an earlier grant by a, former
sovereign it intends or purports to enlarge the grant. The
statute under. which the Mexican title was decided to be good
speaks of confirmation throughout, and, in the most pertinent
passage, directing a patent to be issued, says that it shall be
issued "to the confirmee." Act of March 3,1891, c. 539, § 10,
26 Stat. 854, 859. It would be possible, perhaps, to argue to
the contrary from, provisions in §§ 8 and 13, that the confirmation shall only work a release of title by the United States,
but we are satisfied that the true intent of the statute and the
reason of the thing are as we have said.
The opinion that we have expressed makes it unnecessary
to decide whether lands in the arid regions patented after the
act of March 3, 1877, c. 107, 19 Stat. 377, are not accepted subject to the rule that priority of appropriation gives priority of
right by virtue of that act construed with Rev. Stat., § 2339.
The Supreme Court of Oregon has rendered a decision to that
effect on plausible grounds. Hough v. Porter, 98 Pac. Rep.
1083. See further, act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, § 18, 26 Stat.

BOQUILLAS CATTLE CO. v. CURTIS.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1101. United States v. Rio Grande Dam and IrrigationCo., 174
U. S.690, 704-706; Gutierres v. Albuquerque Land and Irrigation Co., 188 U. S.545, 553. So it is unnecessary to consider
how far, if at all, the defendants represent an appropriation
of,the' water before the patent was granted. For that reason
we have not set forth the details found by the court below as
to the dams, ditches and use of water, going back to 1877.
But, perhaps, the main contention of the plaintiff is based on
the legislation of the Territory, and especially on the Howell
Code of 1864, c. 61, § 7, as follows: "The common law of England, so far as it is not repugnant to, or inconsistent with the
Constitution and laws of the United States, or the bill'of rights
or laws of this Territory, is hereby adopted, and shall be the rule
of decision in all the courts of this Territory." We assume that
*thissection, however it may affect the case at bar, was within
the power of the legislature to enact. United States v. Rio
Grande Dam and IrrigationCp., 174 U. S.690, 70g, 703; Gutierres v. Albuquerque Land and Irrigation Co., 188 U. S.545, 553.
Act of June 17, 1902, c. 1093, § 8. 32 Stat. 388, 390. But we
agree with the territorial court that, construed with the rest
of the code, it is far from meaning that patentees of a ranch on
the San Pedro are to have the same rights as owners of an estate
on the Thames.
In the first place, this is merely the adoption of a general
system as against another general system (the Spanish Mexican), that had been in force and that was repealed by § 1. If
there were nothing more in the code, it would be going a great
way to-say that such a broad phrase forbade the courts to hold
that the common law was adaptible and established the English
rule of riparian rights only for English conditions, as suggested
by Nave, J., below. It might be argued, with force, that an
amendment, inserting the words "So far only as is consistent
with and adapted to the natural and physical condition of the
Territory, and the necessities of the people thereof," merely
expressed what was implied before. Rev. Stats. 1887, § 2935.
And the like might be urged with regard to § 3198 of the Re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

vised Statutes of 1887, which, in terms, enacted or declared
that "the common law doctrine of riparian water rights"
should'not obtain. ut we are not left to rely upon reasonable
implications and argument, for other parts of the original code
are express upon the point. Therefore we need not consider
whether, in any event, the statute could be supposed to confer
property rights not previously possessed and not subject to
legislative change. Compare Wisconsin & Michigan Ry. Co.
v. Powers, 191 U. S. 379, 387, and Damon v. Hawaii, 194 U. S.
154, 160.
By the statutory bill of rights, Art. 22, all streams capable
of being used for the purposes of irrigation are declared to be
public property, and no one shall have the right to appropriate
them exclusively, except under such equitable regulations as
the legislature shall provide. And then chapter 55 "Of Acequias or Irrigating Canals," after again, declaring streams of
running water public, § 1, enacts that "All the inhabitants of
this Territory who own or possess arable and irrigable lands,
shall have the right to construct public or private acequias, and
obtain the necessary water for the same from any convenient
river, creek or stream of running water." § 3. By §-4, when
such acequias run through the lands of private persons not
benefited, the damages are to be assessed by the probate judge
in a summary manner, on application of the party interested.
§4. Preference is given to irrigation over other uses. § 5. By
§ 7 the exclusive right to the water is given to the persons taking
out a ditch for agricultural purposes, and a right to damages
if-the water afterwards is taken for mining. By § 17 precedence
is given in time of scarcity to the oldest titles, and by § 25 "The
regulation of.acequias, which have been worked according to
the laws and customs of Sonora and the usages of the people
of Arizona, shall remain as they were made and used up to this
day," and the chapter is to be enforced from the day of publication. There are many more details, but we have recited enough
to show that the interpretation given by the court below to the
general adoption of the common law by the HowellkCode, and

AMERICAN BANANA CO. v. UNITED FRUIT CO. 347
213 U. S.

Syllabus.

the qualifications imposed upon it, were correct. They simply
follow what has been understood to be the law for many years.
Clough v. Wing, 2 Arizona, 371.
The right to use water is not confined to riparian proprietors.
Gutierres v. Albuquerque Land and IrrigationCo., 188 U. S. 545,
556; Coffin v.. Left Hand Ditch Co., 6 Colorado, 443, 449, 450;
Willey v. Decker, 73 Pac. Rep. 210, 220. Such a limitation
would substitute accident for a rule based upon economic considerations, and an effort, adequate or not, to get the greatest
use from all available land. Whether there are any limits of
distance is a question not arising in this case.
A final objection urged is that the plaintiff's land is taken
without compensation. It would seem that this is merely
technical in this case. There does not appear to have been any
discussion of the point below, and it is probable that the water
is the only thing that has substantial value or really is cared for.
But the plaintiff is authorized to have his damages assessed if
he desires by ch. 55, § 4 (now Rev. Stat., § 3202), as we have
mentioned. We think that it would be unjust to disturb the
decree on this ground, although in other circumstances the objection might be grave.

Decree affirmed.

-4

AMERICAN BANANA COMPANY v. \ UNITED FRUIT
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 686.

Argued April 12, 13, 1909.-Decided April 26, 1909.

While a country may treat some relations between its own citizens as
governed by its own law in regions subject to no sovereign, like the
high seas, or to no law recognized as adequate, the general rule is that
the character of an act as lawful or unlawful must be determined
wholly by the law of the country where it is done.

