Oct. 1875.]

'WHITFIELD V.

UNITED STATES.

The exercise of such a power by the agent was liable to two
objections, -it
was ultra vires, and it was a fraud as respects
the company. Hoffman must have known that neither Goodwin nor Thayer had any authority to enter into such an arrangement, and he was a party to the fraud. No valid contract
as to the company could arise from such a transaction. This
objection is fatal to the appellant's case.
It is insisted by the counsel for the appellee, that Hoffman,
by bringing his action at law, repudiated and rescinded the
contract, if there was one; and that the appellant is thereby
estopped from maintaining this bill. Authorities are cited in
support of this proposition. Herringtonv. Hubbard,2 Ill. 569;
.Dalton v. Bentley, 15 id. 420; Smith v. Smith, 19 id. 349;
Cooper v. Brown, 2 McLean, 495; Tilliams v. Washington Life
Ins. (o., 4 Big. Life & Ace. Ins. Rep. 56.
As the point aheady determined is conclusive of the case, it
is unnecessary to consider this subject.
-Decree affirmed.

WHETFIELD V. UN'ITED STATES.
A. sold cotton to the Confederate States, accepted their bonds in payment there
for, but remained in possession of it until its seizure by the agents of the
United States, who sold it, and paid the proceeds into the treasury. Hdd, that
A. cannot recover such proceeds in an action against the United States.

from the Court of Claims.
During the war of the rebellion, Whitfield, a resident of the
State of Alabama, being the owner of a hundred and seventyseven bales of cotton raised by himself, sold it to the Confederate States, agreeing to receive in payment their eight per cent
bonds. In January, 1865, payment of the purchase-price was
made and accepted in bonds of the kind agreed upon, payable
to bearer, and falling due in the years 168, 1871, and 1880.
Whitfield kept the bonds in his possession, and, at the trial of
this case below, produced them in open court. The cotton was
never taken away by the Confederate States authorities, but
remained in his possession until Sept. 1, 1865, when it wa
APPEPA

WHITFIELD V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. ct.

seized by the treasury agents of the United States, acting under color of the authority of the abandoned and captured
property acts. After the seizure, fifty-nine bales were, pursuant to an arrangement, restored to him, as compensation for
putting the cotton in good order, and the remaining one hundred
and eighteen bales sent forward to New York, where they were
sold by the cotton agent of the United States, and the proeeeds
paid into the treasury. This suit was brought to recover these
proceeds.
In the Court of Claims, the petition was dismissed: whereupon Whitfield appealed to this court.
Mr. P. Phillips for the appellant.
There was no legal authority for the seizure of the cotton.
It did not come within the definition of captured property as
recognized in United States v. Padelford, 9 Wall. 537.
The Court of Claims, in Sprott v. United States, 8 Ct. of C1.
499, decided that the government of the Confederate States
was an unlawful assemblage, without power to take, hold, or
convey real or personal property. If such be the law, the sale
in question did not divest the title of the claimant.
Conceding, however, that they could enter
into a contract
of purchase recognizable in our courts, the question is then
presented, whether property so purchased, the possession of
which was never parted with by the owner, can be taken from
him by the United States after the overthrow and dissolution
of that government, he being then the holder of the securities
given as the consideration of the purchase.
Let it be supposed that Whitfield had sold this cotton to A.,
and had received his bond for the purchase-money, but had
never parted with the possession. A. becomes insolvent; but
his property had been forfeited to the United States. Surely,
under these circumstances, the government, asserting its claim
through A., could never rightfully demand the cotton without
paying the purchase-money.
There is no difference between this supposititious case and
that now before the court, as the contract, under the same circumstances, was made with the Confederate government.
When a government enters into a contract of purchase or
other mereantile operation, it puts off its sovereignty; and, in

Oct. 1875.1

WHITFIELD
.
V. UNITED STATES.

such transactions, its rights and obligations are regarded by the
court as standing on no higher ground than like transactions
between individuals. 2 Story, Com., ยง 1330; United States v.
Buford, 3 Pet. 12; -Davisv. Gray, 16 Wall. 232.
Conceding the right of the .government to exercise all
powers necessary to carry on the war to a successful termination, we maintain that war does not operate proprio vigore a
Conffiscation of the enemy's property.
It is for the legislative body to determine the policy on which
the war shall be conducted.
Congress determined the question how fax belligerent rights
should be exercised.
The act 13th July, 1861, provides for the seizure of ships or
vessels belonging to citizens of States engaged in insurrection,
found at sea.
By the act 6th August, 1861, property sold or given, with intent to use or employ the same for the purpose of promoting
the insurrection, is made subject to prize or capture.
By the act 17th July, 1862, the property of persons designated by six enumerated classes is, in a certain contingency,
subject to confiscation.
In neither of these acts is the title of the owner divested by
the seizure. This takes place only when judicial proceedings
are instituted, and a judgment of condemnation is had. Then
the property is sold, and the proceeds paid into the treasury.
With neither of these acts had the Treasury Department any
concern. Its sole authority is under the act of 1863, which
limits its power to captured or abandoned property.
As the government has not chosen to proceed against this
cotton under the act of 6th August, 1861, as having been sold
for the purpose of promoting the insurrection, in the mode
pointed out in the act, it cannot now claim to hold it on that
ground by virtue of the seizure made in this case.
If this cotton was neither captured, abandoned, nor condemned under any act of Congress directing its confiscation,
the government of the United States can only claim title to it
by virtue of its light to succeed to the property owned by the
conquered government.
This right must rest alone upon general principles of international law.

W HITFIELD v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

It was on the theory of succession or representation alone
that the suits brought in England by the United States against
the agents of the Confederacy could be maintained.
The Vice-Chancellor, after announcing as a clear principle of
public law, that any government which de facto succeeds to any
other, whether by revolution or restoration, conquest or reconquest, succeeds to all the public property of the displaced
power, held that "this right is the right of succession. This
right of representation is a right not paramount, but one
derived through the displaced authority, and can only be
enforced in the same way, and to the same extent, and subject
to the same correlative obligations and rights, as if that
authority had not been suppressed, and was itself seeldng
to enforce it." United States v. Prioleau,2 Hem. & M. Oh.
Cas. 560; United States v. M~eRae, 8 L. R. Eq. 75.
It is admitted, that when terms of sale are agreed on, and
every thing the seller has to do with the goods is complete, the
contract of sale becomes absolute between the parties, without
actual payment or delivery, and the property, and the risk of
accident to the goods, vest in the buyer.
When the sale is for cash, the vendee, though he acquires a
right of property by the contract, does not acquire the right of
possession until he pays or tenders the price.
When it is on a credit, the vendee, in the absence of stipulation, is entitled to immediate possession, as the right of possession and the right of property vest at once in him.
But this doctrine is subject to the important qualification,
that this right of possession is not absolute, and will be defeated
if the buyer becomes insolvent before he obtains the actual
possession: for though the buyer has the property vested in
him, so as to subject him to the risk of any accident, he has
not an indefeasible right to the possession; and his insolvency
without payment defeats that right, equally after the transitus
has begun as before the seller has parted with the actual possession. Bloxam v. Saunders, 6 B. & C. 941.
There is manifestly a marked distinction between those acts,
which, as between vendor and vendee, go to make a constructive delivery, and vest the property in the vendee, and that
actual delivery which puts an end to the right of the vendor to

Oct. 1875.]

WHITFIELD V. UNITED STATES.

hold the goods as security for the price. Arnold v. -Delano,
4 Cush. 38; D 'Aquila v. Larbert, 2 Eden, 77; Kinloh v.
Craig, 3 T. R. 119; illason v. Lickbarrow, 1 H. B1. 357.
But the title of the vendor is not entirely divested until the
goods have come into the possession of the vendee. He has,
therefore, a complete right, for just cause, to retract the
intended delivery, and stop the goods in transitu. The cases
in our courts of law have confirmed this doctrine, and the same
law obtains in other countries. Comm. of Gaius, p. 232;
1 Domat, Civ. Law, 202, note.
The right of the vendor is not affected by the fact that he
received the note or bond of the vendee in payment of the price.
Bell v. Hos8, 5 Wheat. 204. Nor is his lien lost by an express
agreement that he .will retain the goods for the vendee, either
with or without rent. Townley v. Crump, 4 Ad. & Ell. 63;
2rliles v. Groton, 2 Cr. & M. 511; Winkes v. ffassels, 9 B. & C.
372.
As the seizure did not displace the title of the claimant, he
is entitled to recover.
lJr.Solicitor- General Phillipsfor the United States.
MR. Csmn JusTIcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
In United States, Lyon et al. v. Huckabee, 16 Wall. 414, we
held that real property purchased by and conveyed to the Confederate States during the war passed to the United States at
the restoration of peace, by capture; and we sustained the title
of the United States thus acquired against a claim made by the
vendors of the Confederate States, that the conveyance was obtained from them by duress. The same principle was recognized
and acted upon in Titus v. United States, 20 Wall. 475. We
have thus decided that the Confederate States government could
acquire title to real property by purchase; and it is not easy to
see why a different rule should be applied to personal property.
The ownership of that, even more than real property, was required for the operations of the Confederacy. Contracts of sale
made in aid of the rebellion will not be enforced by the courts;
but completed sales occupy a different position. As a general
rule. the law leaves the parties to illegal contracts where it finds

WHITFIELD V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

them, and affords relief to neither. A sale of personal property, when completed, transfers to the purchaser the title of
the property sold.
Whitfield's sale, in this case, was not on credit, but for bonds
which passed from hand to hand as money. The transaction,
in this respect, was not different from a sale to the United
States for any of their public securities payable at a future
day. The sale was complete when the bonds were accepted in
payment. The title then passed to the Confederate States
without a formal delivery. From that time, Whitfield ceased
to be the owner of the cotton.
The claim, then, that he had the right to retain the possession of the cotton until the purchase-money was paid, because
of the insolvency of the Confederate government, is not applicable to the facts established by the evidence, as the purchasemoney had been paid before the insolvency. But, if this were
otherwise, it is not easy to see how his claim, growing out of
his illegal contract as it does, can be enforced against the
United States in the Court of Claims. In Sprott v. United
States, id. 459, it was decided that one owing allegiance to
the government of the United States could not avail himself
of the courts of the country to enforce a claim under a contract by which, for the sake of gain, he knowingly contributed
to the "vital necessities of the rebellion." For that reason, we
refused to give effect to a purchase of cotton from the Confederate government. This case is not distinguishable from that in
principle. Cotton, as we have often said, was, during the late
war, as much hostile property as the military supplies and
munitions of wax it was used to obtain. When Whitfield,
therefore, sold his cotton to the Confederacy, and took their
bonds in payment, he contributed directly to the means of prosecuting the rebellion. He says in his petition, it is true, that
his sale was not made to aid the rebellion; but the purchase
was clearly for that purpose, and no other. This he could not
but have known. Under such circumstances, "he must be
taken to intend the consequences of his own voluntary act."
Hfanauer v. -Doane, 12 Wall. 847. By his sale, he knowingly
devoted his cotton to the war; and his rights must follow its fortunes. The courts of the country would not relieve him against

Oct. 1875.1

CAREY ET AL. v. BROWN.

one who held title by conveyance from the Confederate States,
and under that title had obtained possession. Neither would
they interfere in behalf of a7 purchaser from the Confederate
States to enforce possession under his sale. But when his possession has been lost by reason of his sale, no matter how, the
courts will afford him no relief against the loss. Having by
his acts entered the lists against his rightful government, he
cannot, if he loses, ask it for protection against what he has
voluntarily done. In this case he seeks to enforce a right
growing out of his contract of sale, which was tainted with the
vice of the rebellion. It was a contract which could not have
been enforced against hian, and he is equally powerless under
its provisions against others. He seeks in effect, by this action,
to recover, in the courts of the United States, the purchasemoney due from the Confederate States, upon the principle that
a sale upon credit implies a guaranty of the solvency of the
purchaser until the payment is made. We have already seen
that such is not his position here; but if it were, having lost
his possession, he has no standing in court for relief. He is not
the owner of the property, and his lien is not one the courts of
Judgment affirmed.
the United States will enforce.

CAREY ET AL. v. BROWN.
1. Where a suit, brought by a trustee to recover trust-property, or to reduce it
to possession, in no wise affects his relations with his cestuis que trust,it is un-

necessary to make them parties.
2. Where the want of parties does not appear on the face of the bill, the objec-

tion must be set up by plea or answer, and cannot be made for the first
time in this court.
8. A person cannot avail himself of a lien, the discharge of which has been
fraudulently prevented by his own acts.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
J1Ir. Conway Robinson for the appellants.
31r. Tiomas J. Durant for the appellee.

