Oct. 1875.]

SMITH ET AL. V. VODGES, ASSIGNEE.

parties exists. In the case last referred to, a suit to foreclose
a mortgage was commenced before the mortgagor went into
bankruptcy; but the decree was not rendered until after that
event and the appointment of an assignee. We decided that
the validity of the suit or of the decree was not affected by
the intervening bankruptcy; that the assignee might or might
not be made a party; and, whether he was or not, he was
equally bound with any other party acquiring an interest pendente lite.
As no other ground was assigned affecting the jurisdiction,
we are of opinion that the court had jurisdiction of the case,
and ought to have decided it upon its merits.
.Decreereversed.

SMITH ET AL. V. VODGES, ASSIGNEE.
In order to defeat a settlement by a husband upon his wife, it must be intended
to defraud existing creditors, or creditors whose rights are expected shortly
to supervene, or those whose rights may and do supervene.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
31r'. N. H. S7tarpless and Hr. ?ic1hard C. Ac~urtrie for the
appellants.
31r. William A. .Dlandersonfor the appellee.

MR. JusTIcE SwAm delivered the opinion of the court.

The law of this case is too well settled to admit of doubt.
In order to defeat a settlement made by a husband upon his
wife, it must be intended to defraud existing creditors, or creditors whose rights are expected shortly to supervene, or creditors whose lights may and do so supervene; the settler purposing
to throw the hazards of business in which he is about to engage
upon others, instead of honestly holding his means subject to
the chance of those adverse results to which all business enterprises are liable. Sexton v. Wheaton, 8 Wheat. 229; Mullen v,
Wilson, 8 Wright, 413; Stilenman v. Ashdown, 2 Atk. 481.

SMITH ET AL. V.

VODGES, ASSIGNEE.

[ up. Ct.

Fraud is always a question of fact to be determined by the
court or jury upon a careful scrutiny of the evidence before it.
The view which we take of this case renders it unnecessary
to consider the objections urged by the counsel of the appellants
against the reference to the master, the exceptions to the master's reports, and the questions raised by the demurrers to the
oiiginal and the amended bill.
Passing by these subjects, and looking only to the merits
of the controversy, two points to be examined arise. They
involve questions of fact which must be solved in the light of
the evidence found in the record. The burden of proof rests
upon the appellee.
1. What was the pecuniary condition of the bankrupt when
the property in question was bought at the sale under execution, and conveyed by the sheriff to Esther A. Smith?
The date of the transaction was the 2d of June, 1862. The
amount paid was $1,450. The property consisted of a dwellinghouse and store-room, which she had leased in the year 1859.
The rent was $150 per year. She and her husband occupied
the premises up to the time of the sale. She kept a dry-goods
store and a millinery and dress-making establishment in her own
name. She was eminently successful. The bill avers and admits,
that, at the time of the purchase of the property, she had realized
profits to the amount of $10,000, and that the property was paid
for out of this fund. There is proof in the record to the same
effect. In conducting her business, she paid promptly; and it
does not appear that she then or subsequently owed any thing
which is unpaid. The husband had paid all his debts except
two. For those he had given extension notes, having sbort
times to run; and they were paid at maturity.
This investment for the benefit of the wife was never challenged by any creditor of the husband or the wife; and it is
not now challenged in behalf of any creditor whose debt subsisted then or accrued for a considerable time afterwards.
Under the circumstances, the investment was moderate in
amount, proper to be made, and, we think, liable to no legal
objection as to its validity. The testimony to be considered in
connection with the next point throws a backward light, which
is also favorable to the wife with respect to this part of the
case.

Oct. 1875.]

SMITH ET AL. V. VODGES, ASSIGNEE.

2. What was the pecuniary condition of the bankrupt when
he extinguished the ground-rent by which the property was
incumbered?
The money was paid about the 1st of January, 1866 ; and the
amount was $3,000.
After the 1st of January, 1863, the business, which had before
been carried on in the name of the wife, was conducted in that
of the husband. It continued to be prosperous for several
years. He thinks he made from $10,000 to $15,000 a year.
He sold the first year from fifty to sixty thousand dollars' worth
of goods. Such is his testimony, and it is uncontradicted. He
paid all his debts, and considered himself in independent circumstances. His standing was such, that he had no difficulty
in buying goods on credit. A merchant says, "His credit was
good. I was willing and anxious to sell him all the goods I
could" (Corbin's testimony). The cashier of the Fourth National Bank, speaking of his credit in that institution between
the years 1864 and 1868, says, "He was able to get all he
asked for, which was the greatest amount at one time, $5,000,
only on account of his average good balance in bank" (McMullen's testimony).
No debt now exists which existed prior to 1868; and there is
none now existing which can be said in any sense to stand in
renewal or continuity of any such prior debt.
In the early part of 1867, there was a marked reflux in the
tide of prosperity throughout the country. It swept many of
those exposed to it into hopeless insolvency. The bankrupt
became embarrassed and depressed. His wife proposed to relieve him by making a loan of $4,000, to be secured by a mortgage upon the property in question. This suggestion was
carried out. The loan was made and the mortgage given in
March, 1867. The money was paid over to his creditors. This
enabled him for a time to weather the storm. But times grew
worse. The shrinking in the value of dry-goods was immense.
He testifies that muslins for which he paid seventy cents per
yard he was compelled to sell for twenty.
His loss by shrinkage he estimates at $20,000. In 1868,
when his stock had been reduced in value to about 820,000, he
sold it for that sum to the clerks, all females and relatives, who

SMITH ET AL. V. VODGES, ASSIGNEE.

[Sup. Ct

had been employed in the store, and took their notes accordingly. These notes he indorsed to his creditors. Some of them
have been paid, and others not. When the stock in the hands
of the vendees had been reduced to a remnant, worth about
$2,000, it was sold under process in favor of his wife for the
payment of the accumulated rents due to her.
The mortgage to secure the loan of $4,000 is still unsatisfied.
The bankrupt testifies that his failure was due to the losses
of a firm of which he was a member; and that, but for that
connection, he would still be in prosperous circumstances.
We think the payment of the $3,000 to extinguish the
ground-rent was honestly made, and was warranted by the
condition at that time of the bankrupt's affairs. They were
then prosperous, and he had no reason to anticipate the reverses which followed. If there could otherwise be any doubt
as to the integrity of this transaction, it is removed by the loan
and mortgage and the application of the money borrowed. If
there had been a purpose to defraud when the property was
bought or the ground-rent extinguished, the mortgage would
not have been given. It is entirely inconsistent with such an
idea. The loan replaced the amount paid for the ground-rent,
with an excess of $1,000; and it equalled the amount paid for
both the property originally and in extinguishment of the
ground-rent, less $450.
We hold the transactions both as to the ground-rent and the
original purchase to have been honest and valid.
Where money has been misappropriated, the general rule of
equity is, that those wronged may pursue it as far as it can be
traced, and may elect to take the property in which it has been
invested, or to recover the money. Piattv. Oliver, 3 How. 401.
Lord Ellenborough held that the same rule is applicable at
]aw. Tdylor v. Plummer, 8 M. & S. 562.
It was claimed by the counsel for the appellants, that, if the
transactions here in question should be adjudged fraudulent,
the assignee would only have a lien upon the premises for the
amount to which it might be held he was entitled with interest.
The conclusions at which we have arrived upon the facts
render it unnecessary to consider the law of the remedy.
Decree reversed, and cause remanded,with directions to dismiss the bill.

