Oct. 1875.]

CONVERSE V. CITY OF FORT SCOTT.

'IR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Twenty-six errors have been assigned in this case, not one of
which can be sustained. All which have the least plausibility
have been considered and declared unfounded in Town of Venice
v. .Jurdock,supra, p. 494; and the others might well be dismissed
without special notice. The thirteenth complains that the circuit judge decided that the plaintiffs could recover interest upon
the coupons from the time they fell due. That the ruling was
correct is perfectly plain. It was in entire accordance with the
decisions generally of the State courts and also of this court.
The other assignments have either been answered in Town
of Venice v. Murdock, or they are totally without merit.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE M LLER, MR. JUSTICE DAvis, and MR. JusTICE FmLD, dissented.

CoTvE-RsE v. CITY oF FORT ScoTT.
Pursuant to the authority conferred by the act of the legislature of the State of
Kansas, and by virtue of a popular election thereby authorized, the mayor and
council of the "City of Fort Scott" were empowered to issue $25,000 of
bonds of the city for the purpose of procuring the right of way for the Missouri, Kansas, and Texas Railway Company through that city, and also procuring grounds for d6p6ts, engine-houses, machine-shops, and yard-room, and
donating the same to the company, provided that the company, in the judgment
of the mayor and council, had first given evidence of their intention to comply
with certain specified conditions. The company did comply with the conditions. The mayor and council did then, upon an understanding with the company, agree to deliver to it the $25,000 of bonds in lieu of said grounds and
right of way, and in full satisfaciion of all the obligations resting on the city in
relation thereto. Thereupon the bonds were duly issued, and registered in
the ofce of the State auditor, who certified upon each bond that it had been
regularly and legally issued, that the signature to it was genuine, and that it
had been duly registered in accordance with the State law. The bonds were
thereupon delivered to the railroad company. Held, that the bonds were
binding on the city.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Kansas.
This was an action to recover the interest on certain bonds'

CONVERSE V. CITY OF FORT Scom

issued by the city of Fort Scott, Kan.
(all of which were similar) is as follows: "No. 1.
"STATE

UNITED

STATES

[u
[Sup.
Ct.

One of the bonds

OF AwERICA.

$1,000.

OF KANSAS,

" City of Fort Scott, in the county of Bourbon:-' Issued under the laws of Kansas, and in pursuance of an ordinance
of the city of Fort Scott, approved Dec. 22, 1870. $25,000
subscription to the Missouri, Kansas, and Texas Railway Company.
"Know all men by these presents, That the city of Fort
Scott, county of Bourbon, in the State of Kansas, hereby,
for value received, acknowledges itself indebted and firmly
bound to pay to the Missouri, Kansas, and Texas Railway
Company, or bearer, the sum of $1,000, lawful money of
the United States of America, which sum of money the
o said city promises to pay on the first day of July,

A.D.

" 1890, at the Fourth National Bank, in the city of New
York, with interest thereon at the rate of seven per centun per annum, payable semi-annually at the office of said
Fourth National Bank, in said city of New York, on the
first day of January and July in each year, on presentation
and surrender of the annexed coupons as they severally become due.
"The city, the maker hereof, reserves the right to pay this bond
at its option at any time before maturity.
"In witness whereof, the said city of Fort Scott has caused this
bond to be signed, sealed, and delivered on its behalf and for its
benefit by its mayor, and countersigned by its clerk, duly and
legally appointed and authorized in this respect.
"FORT SCOTT, KAN., July 1, 1870.
[SEAL.]
" B. P. McDoxALD, .Mfayor.
"T. A. CORBETT, City-Cleric."
(Across the face in red ink) $1,000.
Each of said bonds, in order to distinguish it from others of
like character, was numbered, and, pursuant to law, was duly
registered in the office of the auditor of the State of Kansas.
Attached to each bond was the following certificate of such
auditing; to wit: "I, A. Thoman, auditor of the State of Kansas, do hereby certify
that this bond has been regularly and legally issued; that the signa.

Oct. 1875.]

CONVERSE V. CITY OF FORT SCoTT.

tures thereto are genuine; and that such bond has been duly registered in my office in accordance with an act of the legislature, entitled
-' An Act to authorize counties, incorporated cities, and municipal
townships, to issue bonds for the purpose of building bridges, aiding in the construction of railroads or other works of internal improvement, and providing for the registration of such bonds, the
registration of other bonds, and the repealing of all laws in conflict
therewith," approved March 2, 1872.
"Witness my hand and official seal, this seventh day of January,
1873.
"A. TnomAN, Audltor of State."
Attached to each bond were coupons falling due on the first
days of January and July, one of which is as follows: 3$35.00.
STATE OF KANSAS.
" City of Fort Scott, in the county of Bourbon, will pay the
bearer hereof thirty-five dollars, at the Fourth National Bank, in
the city of New York, on the first day of July, 1872; being six
months' interest on bond No. 1.
" T. A. CORBETT, City-ClerkC."
.[r. a. a. Yeaton for the plaintiff in error.
3JIr. A. L. Williams, contra.
IR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The general legislation of Kansas confers unusual power
upon municipal corporations in that State. Not only are they
authorized to subscribe for and take stock in any railroad company duly organized under any law of the State or Territory,
and to loan their credit to such corporations upon such conditions as they may prescribe (Acts of 1869, c. 29), but the
act of Feb. 28, 1868 (Gen. Stat. c. 19), confers upon some of
them much more extended powers. It enlarges the range of
municipal authority and duty faT beyond the limits within
which such corporations are commonly understood to be confined. That was an act providing for the incorporation of
cities of the second class, of which the city of Fort Scott is
one. By the twenty-ninth section, the mayor and council of
each such city governed by the act are empowered to enact,
ordain, alter, modify, or repeal such ordinances as it shall deem
expedient "for the benefit of trade and commerce" among

CONVERSE V. CITY OF FORT SCOTT.

[Sup. Ct.

others. Sect. 30, sub-sect. 32, grants power "to take all needful steps to protect the interest of the city, present or prospective, in any railroad leading from or towards the same, but not
to take stock in any railroad without a vote of a majority of
the legal voters." Sub-sect. 33 of sect. 30 authorizes all such
ordinances as may be expedient, and not inconsistent with the
laws of the State, maintaining inter alia "the trade, commerce,
and mantfactories" of the city; and the thirty-seventh subsection (which has a very direct bearing upon the case now
before us) empowers the mayor and council "to take private
property for public use, or for the purpose of giving the right of
way or other privilege to any railroad comnpany, or for the purpose of erecting or establishing market-houses and marketplaces, or for any other necessary public purpose. Provided,
however, that in all cases the city shall make the person or persons whose property shall be taken or injured thereby adequate
compensation therefor, to be determined by the assessment of
five disinterested householders of the city," &c.
Sub-sect. 39 authorizes the mayor and council to borrow
money on the credit of the city, with no other limitation than
that no money shall be borrowed on any contract thereafter
made exceeding $2,000, without the instruction of a majority
of all the votes cast at an election held in the city for that purpose; and sub-sect. 40 authorizes the issue of bonds to fund
any and all indebtedness existing, or subsequently created, due
or to become due.
By these sections, the legislature manifestly contemplated a
lawful acquisition by the city of interests in railroads leading
from or towards it, and authorized municipal legislation in
their favor for the promotion of trade and commerce. The
thirty-seventh section expressly conferred the power to give to
a railroad company a right-of way into or through the city;
authorized the expenditure of money to enable the city thus to
aid the company; and, for the purpose of such aid, empowered
the city to make use of the State's right of eminent domain.
Nothing can be clearer, it appears to us, than that the power
to mak(, a donation of a right of way, or of a site for stationhouses, machine-shops, and other like conveniences, was thus
vested in the mayor and city council.

Oct. 1875.]

CONVERSE v. CITY OF FORT SCOTT.

If we are correct, therefore, it remains only to inquire whether
the issue of the bonds held by the plaintiff was within the
authority thus conferred on the city. On the twenty-fifth day of
July, 1870, a city ordinance was passed, by which it was ordained,
among other things, that a special election should be held in the
several wards of the city on the 30th of August next follo-"ing,
for the purpose of submitting to the qualified electors the question of authorizing the mayor and city council to issue bonds
in a sum not exceeding 825,000 for the purpose of procuring
the right of way for the road of the Missouri, Kansas, and
Texas Railway Company, through the corporate limits of the
city, and also procuring grounds for dsp8ts, engine-houses,
machine-shops and yard-room, and donating the same to the
company. By the eighth section of the ordinance, it was declared to be the duty of the mayor and council, in case the
election should result in favor of the donation, to confer forthwith with the officers of the railroad company, and ascertain at
the earliest possible moment the route selected by the company
for the line of their road through the corporate limits of the
city, and also the ground chosen by them for d~p~ts and other
purposes, and to proceed in such manner as might be deemed
most conducive to the interests of the city; to purchase so much
land as might be necessary for the right of way, and also twentyfive acres exclusive of the right of way, at such convenient
point within the city as the officers of the railroad company
might select, for d6p~ts, engine-houses, machine-shops and yardroom, and to issue the bonds of the city to an amount' not exThe tenth section
ceeding $25,000 to pay for the same.
ordained, that, as the mayor and city councils purchased or
procured the right of way and grounds above specified, they
should donate or convey the same for a nominal consideration,
or cause the same to be donated or conveyed for a nominal consideration, by an indefeasible title in fee-simple to said company provided, however, that in their judgment the company
had first given evidence of their determination to comply with
certain conditions specified in the fourth section of the ordinance.
At the election thus ordered, the proposition submitted was
approved by a large majority of the legal voters; and the case

CONVERSE V.

CITY OF FORT SCOTT.

[Sup. Ot.

finds that the railroad company did comply with the conditions
mentioned in the ordinance.
Why this action of the city councils and the donation proposed to be made under it were not authorized by the act of
the State legislature of Feb. 28, 1868, we are unable to perceive,
and the argument submitted to us on behalf of the defendant
in error has made no serious attempt to show. Indeed, it may
be doubted whether the act of 1868 was called to the attention
of the Circuit Court. It has been contended here that another
act, passed in 1869, gave no such authority to the mayor and
city council; but the argument quite overlooks the grant of
powers expressly made by the act of 1868. The act of 1869
authorized the council of any city to subscribe for stock for the
city in any railroad company organized under the laws of the
State or Territory of Kansas, or to loan the credit of the city
to such company upon such conditions as might be prescribed
by the city authorities, provided such subscription was previously assented to by a majority of the qualified electors voting
at a general or special election; and, in case such an assent was
given, the act made it the duty of the city authorities to make
the subscription. This act speaks only of subscriptions, and
loans of credit; but the act of 1868 contemplated donations.
If, then, the mayor and city council were authorized to make
donations of land for the right of way and other privileges to a
railroad company, and to expend money for the purpose of acquiring land to be given, and if they were authorized to borrow
money to an unlimited extent when instructed so to do by a
popular vote, and further to issue bonds to fund any indebtedness of the city, existing or to be created, it is clear they had
the power to agree to give upon conditions. We have noticed,
that by the ordinance of July 25, 1868, conditions were attached to the proposed gift, - conditions to be performed by the
railroad company. It was after this, after the submission of the
proposition to the people, and its approval, and after a compliance with its conditions by the company, that the ordinance of
Dec. 22, 1870, was passed. Its preamble recites the submission
of the proposition to issue the bonds for the purposes mentioned
to a popular vote; its approval by a large majority; that the
railway company had so far complied with the conditions on

Oct. 1875.]

CARROL ET AL.

v.

GREEN ET AL.

their part to be done and performed as to enable them to demand from the city the right of way and grounds; that in the
exercise of this right they had made a proposition to the city
to accept the 525,000 of bonds so voted, in lieu of said grounds
and right of way, and in full satisfaction and discharge of
all the obligation resting on the city in relation thereto; and
that, after full and careful consideration, it was deemed advisable to accept the proposition, and issue to the company the
bonds.
With such a preamble, the ordinance directed the mayor
and city-clerk to execute and deliver to the railroad company
bonds to the amount of $25,000 for the avowed purpose of discharging the city's obligation.
The bonds were accordingly issued, and registered in the
office of the auditor of the State, who certified upon each that
it had been regularly and legally issued, that the signature to
it was genuine, and that it had been duly registered in accordance with a statute of the State. The plaintiff then purchased
the bonds and coupons before their maturity, without any
actual knowledge of the defences set up against them. Indeed,
no defence is set up except an alleged want of authority for
their issue, - a defence which, in view of the legislation of the
State and of the city ordinances, has, in our opinion, no foundation. Certainly it has none, unless a power conferred upon a
municipality is different from what the same power would be
when possessed by another holder; a doctrine which no one will
venture to assert. It follows, that, on the facts found by the
Circuit Court, the judgment should have been given for the
plaintiff.
Judgment reversed, and cause remandedfor a new trial.

CAItnOL ET AL. v. GREEN ET AL.
The Exchange Bank of Columbia, S. C., failed in February, 1865. In June,
1872, its creditors filed a bill in equity to enforce their claims against the
stovkholders under a clause of the charter, which, "upon the failure of the
bank," rendered them individually liable for any sum not exceeding double
the value of their respective shares. Thedefence set up the Statute of

