HOT SPRINGS OASES.

[Sup. Or.

the other vessel or her stipulators to the extent of the stipulated value thereof beyond the moiety due from said vessel.
This is substantially the form of decree sanctioned by this
court in The Washington and The Gregory, 9 Wall. 516, a case
involving similar principles, although th6 particular point was
not fully discussed in that case.
Decree reversed, and record remanded with instructions to enter
a decree in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD dissented.

HOT SPRINTGS CASES.
RECTOR v. UNITED STATES;

HALE V. UNITFD

STATES;

GAqES ET AL. v. UNITED STATES; RUSSELL v. UNITE]D
STATES.

1. The third section of an act of Congress, approved April 20,1882 (4 Stat. 505),
which is still in force, enacts that four sections of land, including the hot
springs in Arkansas, shall be reserved for the future disposal of the United
States, and shall not be entered, located, or appropriated for any other
purpose whatever. The Indian title to them was not extinguished until
Aug. 24, 1818, nor were the public surveys extended over them until 1838,
nor has the sale of them ever been authorized by law. No part of said sections was, therefore, ever subject to pre-emption or to location; and no.
claim thereto has been validated or confirmed by any act of Congress.
2. The "Act for the relief of the inhabitants of the late county of New Madrid
in Missouri Territory, who suffered by earthquakes," approved Feb. 17,
1816 (3 Stat. 211), required the following steps to be taken: Application to,
the recorder of land-titles, showing the party's claim, and praying a certificate of location - certificate of location issued by the recorder, setting forth,
the amount of land to which the applicant was entitled - application to the
surveyor, presenting the certificate of location, and designating the lands
which the party desired to appropriate - survey and plat made by the surveyor-return of the survey and plat to the recorder to be filed and recorded, with a notice designating the tract located and the name of the
claimant- certificate of the recorder, stating the facts, and that the party
was entitled to a patent- transmission of this certificate to the General
Land-Office - the patent. In addition to these requisites, the land thus appropriated must have been a part of the public lands of the Territory, the
sale of which was authorized by law. A survey, therefore, of part of said
four sections made in 1820, if never returned to the recorder's office, did not
within the meaning of said act, or of the act of April 26, 1822 (4 ,tat. 668),

Oct. 1875.]

OOT SPRINGS CASES.

locate, or segregate from the public domain, the land thereby covered, and
so appropriate it to the claimant as to give him a vested right thereto, and
prevent the operation of the said act of April 20, 1882.
8. The asserted rights of the respective claimants to the land in controversy
discussed and disallowed.

APPEALS from the Court of Claims.

These cases were argued by 3J1r. .Jatt. H. Carpenter and 31r. Albert Pike for Rector.
31r. Frederick P. Stanton for Hale.
1'1.
B. IF. .Munford for Gaines et al.
3r. John.A. Grow for Russell.
.Mzr. Attornel- General Pierrepontfor the United States.
MI. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The title to a well-known watering-place in the State of
Arkansas, called the Hot Springs, now located in Hot Springs
County, has been contested by a number of claimants for
nearly half a century. These springs are situated in a narrow
valley or ravine between two rocky ridges in one of the lateral
ranges of the Ozark Mountains, about sixty miles to the westward of Little Rock. Though not easily accessible, and in a
district of country claimed by the Indians until after the treaty
made with the Quapaws in 1818, they were considerably frequented by invalids and others as early as 1810 or 1812; but
no permanent settlement was made at the place until a number
of years afterwards. Temporary cabins were erected by visitors, and by those who resorted there to dispose of articles needed
by visitors, but were only occupied during a portion of the
year. The public surveys were not extended to that portion of
the country until 1838.
In order to settle, if possible, the controversies which existed,
and which seemed interminable, none of the parties having any
regular government title, and it being doubtful whether any
of them were entitled thereto, Congress, on the thirty-first day
of May, 1870, passed the following act: "A. ACT in relation to the Hot Springs Reservation in Arkansas.
".Be it enacted by the Senate and House qf Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That any
person claiming title, either legal or equitable, to the whole or any

HOT SPRINGS CASES.

[Sup. ot.

part of the four sections of land constituting what is known as the
Hot Springs Reservation, in Hot Springs County, in the State of
Arkansas, may institute against the United States in the Court of
Claims, and prosecute to final decision, any suit that may be necessary to settle the same: -Provided,that no such suits shall be
brought at any time after the expiration of ninety days from the
passage of this act, and all claims to any part of said reservation
upon which suit shall not be brought under the provisions of this
act within that time shall be for ever barred.
"'SECT. 2. And be it further enacted,That all such suits shall be
by petition in the nature of a bill in equity, and shall be conducted
and determined in all respects, except as heiein otherwise provided,
according to the rules and principles of equity practice and jurisprudence in the other courts of the United States; and for the purposes of this act, the Court of Claims is hereby invested with the
jurisdiction and powers exercised by courts of equity, so far as may
be necessary to give full relief in any suit which may be instituted
under the provisions of this act.
"SECT. 3. And be it further enacted, That notice of every suit
authorized by this act shall be executed by the delivery of a true
copy thereof, with a copy of the petition, to the Attorney-General,
whose duty it shall be, for and in behalf of the United States, to
demur to or answer the petition therein, within thirty days after
the service of such process upon him, unless the court shall, for
good cause shown, grant further time for filing the same.
"SECT. 4. And be it further enacted, That if two or more parties
claiming the same lands under different titles shall institute separate
suits under the provisions of this act, such suits shall be consolidated
and tried together, and the court shall determine the question of
title and grant all proper relief as between the respective claimants.
as well as between each of them and the United States.
"SECT. 5. And be itfurtherenacted, That if,
upon the final hearing of any cause provided for in this act, the court shall decide in
favor of the United States, it shall order such lands into the possesrin of a receiver to be appointed by the court, who shall take charge
of and rent out the same for the United States, until Congress shall
by law direct how the same shall be disposed of, which said receiver
shall execute a sufficient bond to be approved 'bythe court, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties as such, render a
strict account of the manner in which he shall have discharged said
duties, and of all moneys received by him as a receiver as aforesaid,
which shall be by said court approved or rejected accordingly as it

Oct. 1875.]

HOT SPRINGS CASES.

may be found correct or not, and pay such moneys into the treasury
of the United States; and he shall receive such reasonable compensation for his services as said court may allow; and in case of a failure of said receiver to discharge any duty devolving upon him as
such, the court shall have power to enforce the performance of the
same by rule and attachment. But if the court shall decide in favor of
amy claimant, both as against the United States and other claimants,
it shall so decree, and proceed by proper process to put such successful claimant in possession of such portion thereof as he may be
thus found to be entitled to; and upon the filing of a certified copy
of such decree with the Secretary of the Interior, he shall cause a
patent to be issued to the party in whose favor such decree shall be
rendered for the lands therein adjudged to him: Provided, that
either party may within ninety days after the rendition of any final
judgment or decree in any suit authorized by this act, carry such
suit by appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States, which
court is hereby vested with full jurisdiction to hear and determine
the same on such appeal, in the same manner and with the same
effect as in cases of appeal in equity causes from the circuit courts
of the United States: And provided further, that in case the judgnment or decree of the Court of Claims in any such suit shall be adverse to the United States, the Attorney-General shall prosecute
such appeal within the time above prescribed; and the taking of
an appeal from any such judgment or decree shall operate as a.
supersedeas thereof until the final hearing and judgment of the
Supreme Court thereon.

"J. G.

BLATNE.,

"Speaker of the House of Representatives.
SCHUYLER COLFAX,

"Vice-President of the United States and President of the Senate.

"Received by the President May 31, 1870.
" [NOTE

BY THE DEPARTTMENT OF

STATE.

-The foregoing act

having been presented to the President of the United States for his
approval, and not having been returned by him to the House of
Congress in which it originated within the time prescribed by the
Constitution of the United States, has become a law without his
approval.]"
The various parties setting up a claim to the property having, in pursuance of the act, filed their respective petitions in
the Court of Claims; and the cases having been consolidated,
the court, after a very full investigation, rendered a decree in

HOT SPRINGS CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

favor of the United States, and adverse to all the claimants.
That decree is brought here by appeal.
Three different titles are set up against the United States;
two of them under claims of pre-emption, and one under a NewMadrid location.
1. John C. Hale claims the south-west quarter of section 33,
'township 2 south, range 19 west, of the fifth principal meridian
in Hot Springs County, Ark., embracing the hot springs, which
are the object of contention. He claims as representative of
John Percifull by right of pre-emption under the fifth section
of the act of Congress, passed April 12, 1814, entitled "An Act
for the final adjustment of land-titles in the State of Louisiana
and Territory of Missouri." By this section it was provided,
amongst other things, that every person, and the legal representatives of every person, who had actually inhabited and
cultivated a tract of land lying in the Territory of Missouri,
not rightfully claimed by any other person, and who should
not have removed from the Territory, should be entitled to the
right of pre-emption in the purchase thereof, under the same
restrictions and regulations as directed in a similar act passed
Feb. 5, 1813, in relation to fllinois. Those restrictions and
regulations were, that the price should be the same as that of
other public lands in the Territory; that only one quarter-section
should be thus sold to one individual; that it should be bounded
by the sectional and divisional lines of the public survey; and
that the sale should not embrace lands reserved from sale by
former acts, or directed to be sold in town-lots, &c. It was
further required by the act of 1818, that every person claiming under the act must make known his claim by delivering a
notice in writing to the register of the land-office for the distriet in which the land should lie, designating his claim, and
to be filed in the office. If it appeared to the satisfaction of
the register and receiver that he was duly entitled, he was
allowed to enter the land on payment of one-twentieth of the
price; but the entry must be made at least two weeks before
the time of the commencement of public sales in the district,
or the right would be forfeited.
Hale sets forth in his petition that, at the time when the said
act was passed, - namely, April 12, 1814, - John Percifull

Oot. 167-1.]

HOT SPRINGS OASES.

had actually inhabited and cultivated the tract of land embracing the hot springs, and forming a portion of the quartersection claimed by. him; that he had settled upon the same as
early as 1809, and had continued to reside thereon and cultivato the same up to the time of the passage of the act; but
that he could not comply with the act as to making entry, &c.,
because the land was not publicly surveyed until the year 1838.
That as soon as practicable after the survey was made, -namely,
on the 27th of September, 1838,- Sa-ah and David Percifull,
the widow and heir-at-law of John Percifull (who was then
deceased), gave notice of the said claim, verified by affidavits,
to the register of the proper land-office at Washington, Ark.,
and applied to the register and receiver to enter the same; but
that their application was rejected. That this decision of the
register and receiver was subsequently confirmed by the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, on the ground that the
hot springs, and four sections of land around the same, had
been reserved for the future disposal of the United States by
an act of Congress passed April 20, 1832.
The act of 1832, referred to, was an act authorizing the governor of Arkansas Territory to lease the salt springs therein.
By the third section of the act, it was enacted that the hot
springs in said Territory, together with four sections of land
including said springs, as near the centre thereof as may be,
shall be reserved for the future disposal of the United States,
and shall not be entered, located, or appropriated for any other
purpose whatever.
Besides this act which the claimant had to contend with, the
Indian title to that portion of the country was not extinguished
until Aug. 24, 1818, when it was ceded to the United States
by the treaty made with the Quapaws. Attorney-General
Butler, in 1836, being applied to for his opinion on the subject, held that none of the lands ceded by that treaty were, or
ever had been, subject to pre-emption claims under the act of
1814; because no settlement or cultivation of the lands prior
to that act could have been made consistently with the rightful
claims of others,-namely, the Quapaw Indians. The land department always acted in conformity with this opinion. And
it is difficult to see how a different result could have been

HOT SPRINGS OASES.

[Sup. 0 .

reached. It was the declared policy of the goveiinnent at an
early day to prohibit any settlement of lands belonging to the
Indians. A proclamation to this effect was issued by the old
Congress, Sept. 22, 1783. Journals, vol. iv. p. 275; Land Laws,
1828, p. 388. An enactment of the same purport was made by
Congress in 1802, in the act to regulate trade and commerce
with the Indians, sect. 5. 2 Stat. 141, 142. After thb acquisition of Louisiana, it was repeated in reference to that Territory.
Act March 26, 1804 (2 Stat. 289).
But it is contended that this difficulty has been obviated by
the act of March 1, 1843 (5 Stat. 603), passed to perfect the
titles of land south of the Arkansas River, held under NewMadrid locations and pre-emption rights, especially in reference
to the Indian title. By the third section of this act it was enacted that every settler on the public lands south of the Arkansas River should be entitled to the same benefits accruing under
the act of 1814 as though they had resided north of said river.
What does this mean ? We know the fact that the lands north
of the Arkansas had been ceded to the United States by the
Great and Little Osages by the treaty of 1808, and that
the Indian title, therefore, was extinguished in 1814. Does the
act mean that the settlers south of the river should have the
same benefit as if the Indian title had been extinguished in
and prior to 1814? If it meant this, why did it not say it?
But supposing that the act had this effect, so that the objection
arising from the Indian title was removed, the act still left unshaken the reservation made by the act of 1832. This act is
absolute in its terms. It contains no saving clause. It declares
that the hot springs shall be reserved for the future disposal
of the United States, and that they shall not be entered,
located, or appropriated for any other purpose whatever. This
positive prohibition would have prevented the representatives
of Percifull from availing themselves of any benefit which the
removal of the obstacle arising from the Indian title gave them.
Entry and location were still necessary to give them title.
The counsel for Hale, however, strenuously contenas that the
act of 1843 was intended to validate the pre-emption claim of
Percifull to the property in question, and that it must be construed to effect a repeal of the act of 1832 by implication. In

Oct. 187.5.]

HOT SPRINGS CASES.

705

favor of this view he alleges as a fact that this was the only
case to which the act could apply. We cannot know this.
There is nothing on the face of the act to indicate it. If it was
intended to repeal the act of 1832, and to confirm Percifull's

title, why was it not so expressed? A plain word or two would
have done it. If such bad been the legislative intent, we cannot believe that this intent would have been left in such deep
obscurity, and dependent on so many implications. The act of
1832 expressed very clearly the intent of Congress to reserve

the hot springs from private appropriation. If the act of
1343 was intended to revoke this reservation, it ought to have
been expressed with like clearness.
But besides these legal obstacles in the way of this claim, it
is not clear, from the evidence, that Percifull came within the
description of the act of 1814. He resorted to the hot springs
temporarily during the visiting season, to deal in such articles
as the persons who frequented the place for their health
needed. When they left he left. If he erected shanties or
cabins, it was not for the purpose of permanent residence, but
for temporary accommodation.
His actual residence was.
several miles distant. There is no clear evidence of an intent
on his part, at that time (1814), or previously, to make this
retired spot in the Indian country his home.
We think this claim cannot be maintained either at law or
in equity. Whatever hardship exists in the case must'be submitted to the just consideration of the government.
2. William H. Gaines and wife and others, as heirs of one
Ludovicus Belding, claim the same quarter-section as is claimed
by Hale, by virtue of an alleged residence and settlement on
the land in 1829 and 1830, under the pre-emption act of May
29, 1830 (4 Stat. 420). This was a general act, and declared
that every settler or occupant of the public lands prior to its passage, who was then in possession, and cultivated any part thereof
in the year 1829, might enter with the register of the land-office
for the district in which such lands should lie, by legal subdivisions, any number of acres not more than one hundred and sixty,

or a quarter-section, to include his improvements, upon paying
to the United States the minimum price; with a proviso that
no entry or sale of any land should be made under the act, which
VOL. 1x.

45

HOT SPRINGS OASES.

[Sup. Or.

should have been reserved for the use of the United States, or
either of the States. Other provisions of the act as well as that
here recited demonstrate that it was only intended to apply to
lands which had been publicly surveyed. By its very language
it could apply to no other. It evidently did not apply to the
lands in question. They were not surveyed until 1838. The
act contained the further provision, that it should remain in
force for one year. It ceased to have effect, therefore, on the
29th of May, 1881. On the 20th of April, 1832, the act was
passed reserving the hot springs. But the heirs of Belding
rely on the act of July 14, 1832 (4 Stat. 603), by which it was
declared, that all occupants and settlers upon the public lands
of the United States, who were entitled to a pre-emption according to the act of 1830, and had not been able to make
proof and enter the same within the time limited therein, in
consequence of the public surveys not having been made and
returned, or where the land was not attached to any land district, or where the same had been reserved from sale on account
of a disputed boundary between any State and Territory, should
be permitted to enter said lands on the same conditions, in every
respect, as were prescribed in that act, within one year after
the surveys were made, &c. It is difficult to see how this act
can aid the claimants. The conditions of the act of 1830 are
not only not waived, but they are expressly reimposed. One
of those' conditions, as seen above, was, that no entry or sale of
any land should be made which should have been reserved for
the use of the United States, or either of the States. This very
thing had been done by the reservation of the hot springs by
the act of 1832. No vested right had accrued to Belding before that reservation, for the pre-emption act of 1830 did not
extend to the lands in question until the passage of the act of
July, 1832, even if a vested right could be set up against the
government before entry and location. The counsel for the
claimants, however, bases an ingenious argument upon that
phrase in the act reserving the hot springs, by which they are
reserved "for the future.disposal of the United States." He
supposes that this differs from a reservation "to the United
States." And as they are only reserved for future disposal, it
may well be said that such disposal was made by the act of

Oct. 1875.1

HOT SPRINGS CASES.

July 14, 1832, in subjecting them to the right of pre-emption
given by the act of 1830. But this argument is too far-fetched
and circuitous. In the first place, we think that a reservation
for the future disposal of the United States was a reservation
to the United States. And, in the next place, that Congress
could hardly have entertained an intent to dispose of the Hot
Springs Reservation by any such general phraseology as that
which was employed in the act of July 14, 1832. Certain reservations are expressly referred to in the act as no longe to be
in the way of pre-emption; and the express mention of these
makes the omission of others more emphatic. The argument
of the counsel would have the effect of defeating all governmental reservations made between April, 1830, and July, 1832;
for the United States had the power of disposing of all of them,
whether expressly retained or not.
Without referring, therefore, to the character of Belding's
occupation, his want of title, either legal or equitable, is manifest upon the face of the statutes under which he claims, taken
in eonnection with the act of April 20, 1832, reserving the
property to the government. If it were necessary to examine
his mode of occupation, it would be open to some very just
criticism, for which it is sufficient to refer to the opinion of the
court below.
3. The remaining title is that claimed by Henry M. Rector
(and, under him, Russell), under a New-Madrid location, in
right of Francis Langlois. The earthquake, or succession of
earthquakes, which occurred along the Mississippi below the
mouth of the Ohio in 1811 and 1812, was particularly disastrous to the county and village of New Madrid, in Missouri
Territory (then the District of Louisiana), leaving a large portion of the land now known as the "sunk country" under
water. For the relief of the inhabitants, Congress, on the
17th of February, 1815, passed an act authorizing those whose
lands had been materially injured by earthquakes to locate the
like quantity of land on any of the public lands of the said
Territory, the sale of which was authorized by law. It was provided, however, that no person should be permitted to locate a
greater quantity than he had before, except where that was
less than one hundred and sixty acres, and, in.no case, a greater

HOT SPRINGS OASES.

rSup. Ct.

quantity than six hundred and forty acres; and that, in every
case where such location should be made according to the provisions of the act, the title of the person or persons to the land
injured should revert to and become absolutely vested in the
United States. By the second section of the act, proof of the
applicant's title to the lands injured was required to be made to
the recorder of land-titles for the Territory of Missouri, who
thereupon was to issue a certificate of the party's right. A
location being selected, and the certificate being presented to
the principal deputy-surveyor of the Territory, it became his
duty to cause a survey thereof to be made, and to return a plat
of the location made to the recorder, together with a notice in
writing designating the tract thus located, and the name of the
claimant, on whose behalf it was made, which notice and plat
the recorder was required to have recorded in his office. By
the third section, it was made the duty of the recorder to transmit a report of the claims allowed, an4 locations made under
the act, to the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, and
to deliver to the party a certificate stating the circumstances of
the case, and that he was entitled to a patent for the tract designated. This certificate being presented to the land-office, a
patent was issued for the land.
These are the substantial provisions of the act. As apparent
on its face, it required the following steps to be taken: 1. Application to the recorder of land-titles, showing the
party's claim, and praying a certificate of location.
2. Certificate of location issued by the recorder, showing the
amount of land to which the applicant was entitled.
3. Application to the surveyor, presenting the certificate of
location, and designating the lands which the party desired to
appropriate.
4. Survey and plat made by the surveyor.
5. Return of the survey and plat to the recorder of landtitles to be filed and recorded, with a notice designating the
tract located and the name of the claimant.
6. Certificate of the recorder, stating the facts, and that the
party was entitled to a patent.
7. Transmission of this certificate to the General Land-Office.
8. The patent.

Oct. 1875 J

HOT SPRINGS OASES.

In addition to these requisites, the land thus appropriated
must be located on the public lands of the Territory the sale of
which was authorized by law.
It is shown by the claimant that Francis Langlois was the
owner of a tract of two hundred arpents of land (about one hundred and seventy acres), in the county of New Madrid, which
was materially injured by the earthquakes. It is also satisfactorily shown that application was made on his behalf on the 26th
of November, 1818, to the recorder of land-titles at St. Louis,
for a certificate of location of a like quantity of lands; and
That the said recorder did, on that day, grant and issue to him
a certificate accordingly (being certificate No. 467), stating that
Langlois or his legal representatives were entitled to locate two
hundred arpents of laud on any of the public lands of the
Territory of Missouri the sale of which was authorized by law.
It also seems that Langlois, at the same time, by his attorney,
executed a release to the United States of his said lands in
New Madrid. As this, however, was not necessary, inasmuch
as the New-Madrid land would revert to the United States on
the completion of the substituted title to other lands of like
amount, under the act, it could have no effect on the validity of
Langlois's title to the lands which he sought in exchange therefor. The certificate of location thus procured from the recorder
was subsequently assigned to other parties, and came to the
hands of Samuel Hammond and Elias Rector, under whom the
present claimant deraigns title. In January, 1819, Hammond
land Rector made formal application to the surveyor-general
(the officer who succeeded the principal deputy-surveyor) for
the entry of two hundred arpents of land to satisfy certificate
No. 467, to be surveyed in a square tract, with lines corresponding to the cardinal points of the compass so as to include the
said hot springs, as near the centre of the square as circumstances would admit. This application was in writing, and was
filed in the office of the surveyor-general, who directed James
S. Conway, a deputy-surveyor, to make the survey. Thereupon Conway made the survey as requested, and on the 16th of
July, 1820, made out a plat and descriptive statement of the
same, which he numbered "Survey No. 2903, Certificate 467."
This survey was deposited by the deputy in the office of the

HOT SPRINGS OASES.

[Sup. Ot,

surveyor-general at St. Louis; but it was not recognized or
recorded by the surveyor-general, nor was it returned to the
recorder of land-titles. Of course no patent was obtained
upon it.
Subsequently, in 1838, when the public surveys were extended
to that region, the then surveyor-general in his instructions to
the deputy-surveyor who prosecuted the work, whether on
Rector's application does not clearly appear, directed him to
survey for Francis Langlois or his legal representatives a tract
of two hundred arpents, having the main spring in the centre,
according to the location of New-Madrid certificate No. 467,
which would be furnished to him. The survey was made and
returned accordingly, and duly returned to the office of the
recorder of land-titles, who issued a patent certificate thereon.
No patent, however, was ever issued on this location, as it was
made subsequent to the act of April 20, 1832, reserving the
hot springs and surrounding lands to the United States. This
act clearly rendered void all subsequent appropriations of land,
unless it was repealed by the act of 1843 before referred to.
The first section of that act declared that the locations of waxrants issued under the act of Feb. 17, 1815 (relating to sufferers at New Madrid), on the south side of the Arkansas River,
if made in pursuance of the provisions of that act in other
respects, should be perfected into grants in like manner as if
the Indian title to the lands on the south side of said river had
been completely extinguished at the time of the passage of said
act.
Attorney-General Cushing, in an opinion on this title given in
1854, pertinently remarks that the only obstacle removed from
.the New-Madrid locations by this act was that of the existence of
the Indian title at the time of the passage of the act of 1815.
No such title existed when the survey was subsequently made;
and if that were the only objection to the title in question, it
would be entitled to recognition. But there stands the act of
1832 reserving the lands to the United States. Unless, therefore, the title of Rector, or those whose estate he represents,
became fixed and vested, as against the government, before the
passage of that act, so as to make the act obnoxious to the
objection of taking private property without just compensation,

Oct. 1875.]

HOT SPRINGS CASES.

it cannot be maintained. Hence it is all important to ascertain the effect of the survey made for Hammond and Rector in
1820.
As before observed, that survey was not recognized nor
recorded in the surveyor-general's office, nor returned to, nor
It is
recorded in, the office of the recorder of land-titles.
done.
this
was
not
why
proper to consider the reasons
The difficulty was this: The act for the relief of the sufferers of New Madrid required that the lands to be given to them
in exchange for their injured lands should be located on public
lands of the Territory "the sale of which was authorized by
law." Mr. Wirt, the then attorney-general, gave it as his opinion that no lands were authorized by law to be sold which had
not been publicly surveyed, according to the general system of
sections and townships; and as the region in which the hot
springs were located was subject to the Indian title until 1818,
and had never been publicly surveyed, no lands could be located
there under a New-Madrid claim in 1820, when the attempt
was made by Hammond and Rector as above stated. This
opinion of the Attorney-General was followed by the General
Land-Office, and patents were refused for any lands thus
attempted to be located. Hence the surveyor-general did not
recognize the survey of Conway, and never returned it to the
ide Wirt's Opinions, 1 Opin. 361, 372.
recorder.
But on the 26th of April, 1822, Congress passed an act, entitled "_An Act to perfect certain locations and sales of public
lands in Missouri," by which it was enacted that the locations
theretofore made of warrants issued under the act of Feb. 15,
1815 (the act for the relief of the New-Madrid sufferers), if
made in pursuance of the provisions of that act in other
respects, should be perfected into grants in like manner as if
they had conformed to the sectional or quarter-sectional lines
of the public surveys; and the sales of fractions of the public
lands theretofore created by such locations should be as valid
and binding on the United States as if such fractions had been
made by rivers or other natural obstructions: and the second
section of the act declared that thereafter the holders and locators of such warrants should be bound, in locating them, to
conform to the sectional and quarter-sectional lines of the pub-

712

HoT SPRINGS CASES.

[Sup. Ut.

lic surveys; and that all such warrants should be located within one year after the passage of the act.
In delivering the opinion of this court in Barry v. Gamble,
3 How. 52, where the construction and effect of this act were
brought under review, Mr. Justice Catron considered that the act
only had reference to lands which had not been surveyed when
the imperfect locations were made and had been surveyed prior
to the passage of the act; for, in making provision for the
fractions created by such irregular surveys, reference is only
made to fractions "heretofore created." If this view of the
act is correct, it decides the case ; for the public surveys were not
extended to these lands until long after 1822, - namely, 1838.
As this was not the point involved in that case, however, it is
proper to look further in reference to the effect of the Hammond and Rector survey of 1820.
The petitioner's counsel insist that the act of 1822 removed
the objection that the location did not conform to the public
surveys, without reference to the time when those surveys were
or might be made, whether before or after the date of the act.
Conceding for the sake of the argument that this may be the
true construction of the act, what is it that the act saves? It
is "locations."
"The location heretofore made, of warrants
issued under the act, &c., if made in pursuance of the provisions of that act in other respects, shall be perfected into grants,"
&c. By the second section, locations thereafter to be made
were to conform to the sectional and quarter-sectional lines.
It becomes important, therefore, to know what is meant by a
location in the act of 1815. It evidently meant a completed
location. When the land became located, the title of the applicant to his New-Madrid lands at once reverted to the government. The words of the act are, "In every case where such location shall be made according to
the provisions of this act, the title of the person or persons to the
land injured as aforesaid shall revert to, and become absolutely
vested in, the United States."
Now, when did this take place? Certainly not on the mere
application to the surveyor-general to survey the tract which
the party desired to appropriate; nor when the surveyor had

Oct. 1875.]

HOT SPRINGS OASES.

planted his last stake or heap of stones on the ground; nor
when he had returned home with his notes in his pocket; nor
when he had made out his survey and plat. This survey and
plat did not belong, the instant they were finished, to the applicant; neither did the land, until something more was done.
What was that something more? The act tells us that the surveyor must return the survey and plat, and the notice as to the
party for whom the survey was made, to the office of the
recorder of land-titles, to be by him filed and recorded. Then,
and not till then, the applicant was entitled to a patent. Then
the land first became appropriated. It then first appeared on
the records of the country as his. This point has been repeatedly adjudged by this court, and has become part of the established land-law of the country, and we should do a great wrong
at this late day to shake it. .Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Pet. 436;
Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 How. 284; Barry v. Ganble, 3 id.
32; Lessieur v. Price, 12 id. 60; Hale v. Gaines, 22 id. 144;
1?ector v. Ashley, 6 Wall. 142; Mackay v. -Easton, 19 id.
633. In the last case, the court, Mr. Justice Field delivering
the opinion, says as follows: "The act of Congress . . . declared that when a location was
made under its provisions, the title of the person to the land injured
should vest in the United States. It contemplated that there
should be a concurrent investiture of title; that the title of the
owners of the land injured in New-Madrid County should pass to
the United States, and that at the same time the title to the land
located in lieu thereof should pass to the claimant, or rather the
right of the title, for the strict legal title did not pass until the
patent issued; and that this exchange of titles should take place
when the claimant obtained his patent certificate, or the right to
such certificate, and that he could not acquire until the plat of the
survey was returned to the recorder of land-titles. Until the plat
was placed in the public depository in the Territory, of evidences of
title issuing from the United States, there was no official recognition
of the proceedings taken by the claimant which bound the government."
A brief reference to the history of land-titles in the Louisiana
country will show the ground and .reason for the importance
attached to a return of the survey to the office of the recorder

HOT SPPINGS CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

of land-titles. It is well known that the Territory purchased
of the French government in 1803 was, in the following ses.
sion of Congress, divided into two Territories: one called the
Territory of Orleans, comprising West Florida and the present
State of Louisiana; and the other, called the District of Louisiana, and comprising the whole region west of the Mississippi
and north of that State. Act March 26, 1804 (2 Stat. 283).
The treaty by which this Territory was acquired, guaranteed,
on the part of the United States, to the inhabitants the free
enjoyment of their liberty, property, and religion. The landtitles which had been perfected and located by surveys offered
no difficulties; but there were many inchoate titles which
had never been perfected, which by the laws of France
and Spain the claimants had a right to perfect. In order
that the government of the United States might know what
claims it was bound in good faith to respect, measures were
taken to have all outstanding claims brought in and recorded,
and located by surveys where these should be necessary. By
the act of March 2, 1805 (2 Stat. 324), the Territory of
Orleans was divided into two land-districts, for each of which
a register was appointed; but for the District of Louisiana an
officer was created, called the Recorder of Land-Titles, who continued for many years to exercise important functions in regard
to the public lands in the District, even after the appointment
of a surveyor, and of registers and receivers, under the general
land-laws. The act referred to required every person claiming
lands, whether by complete or incomplete title, within a limited
time, to deliver to the registers of Orleans, or to the recorder
of land-titles of the District of Louisiana, a notice of his claim,
with a plat of the tract claimed, and also his grant, order of
survey, or other written evidence of his claim; which documents the said registers and recorder respectively were to record in proper books. Claims not so presented and recorded
within the proper time were to be barred as against grants from
the United States. The act further provided for the appointment of two additional persons in each district, to act with the
register or recorder as a board of commissioners to examine and
decide upon the claims which should be presented; whose duty
it was, after deciding, to report their decisions to Congress, and

Oct. 1875.]

HOT SPRINGS OASES.

to deposit the Same, with all the evidence and documents, in the
offices of the register and recorder respectively within whose
district the lands lay. At a later period the additional commissioners were dispensed with, and the powers of the board
were vested in the register and recorder respectively. The reports of these commissioners, and the acts of Congress confirmatory thereof, formed the basis of the titles derived from the
Fren h and Spanish authorities. And this constitution of the
office and duty of the recorder of land-titles in the District of
Louisiana led to the importance subsequently attached to the
return and registration of other surveys in the same office. It
was there that the officers of the government looked, or were
supposed to look, for all authentic claims to land in the District.
No lands were supposed to be appropriated or segregated from
the public domain, unless recorded or registered there.
Now the difficulty in this case is, that the survey of 1820
was never returned to the recorder's office, and, therefore, this
land never became located within the meaning of the act of
1815, or the act of 1822. It never became segregated from the
public domain. It never became so appropriated to the claimants as to give them a vested right, and prevent the operation
of the act of April 20, 1832, by which it was reserved to the
United States.
But the claimant insists that this was not the fault of Hammond and Rector; that they did all they could do; and that the
surveyor-general could not, by neglecting his duty, - namely,
that of recording the survey and returning it to the recorder of
land-titles, - deprive them of their just lights. But, when the"
survey was made, the act of 1822 was not in existence: the laws
then were, as the Attorney-General held them to be, that unsurveyed lands were not lands the sale of which were authorized
by law; and as this doctrine was received and acted upon by
the land department of the government, we should ilot feel authorized at this late day to reverse it. And it is not shown that
any further efforts were made to have the location perfected
until after the passage of the act of 1832. If at any subsequent
time it became the duty of the surveyor-general to return the
survey to the recorder's office, no application for that purpose
seems to have been made. A clear duty on his part could have

BURDELL ET AL. V. DENIG ET AL.

ESILp. ot.

been enforced by mandamus, had he refused to perform it. But
it is unnecessary to speculate. Nothing further was done; and
no vested right accrued under the claim.
In conclusion, we feel bound to decide that none of the
claimants are entitled to the lands in question. The claims
advanced all depend on one or other of the titles which we have
considered; and all are equally untenable. Whatever hardship,
if any, may ensue from this declaration of the law of the case,
we have no doubt will be duly taken into consideration by the
legislative department of the government in dealing with the
subject of the future disposition of those lands.
It is just to say that we have been much aided in the investigation of this case by the able arguments of the counsel on
both sides, and by the elaborate opinion of the Court of Claims,
which supersedes the necessity of our going more into detail in
the discussion of the various questions involved.
Decree affirmed.

BuIDFLL ET AL. V. DEG ET AL.
I. In cases where profits are the proper measure of damages for the infringe-

2.

8.

4.

5

0.

ment of a patent, such profits as the infringer has made, or ought to have
made, govern, and not those which the plaintiff can show that he might
have made.
The above rule applies peculiarly and mainly to cases in equity, and is based
upon the idea that as to such profits the infringer of the patent should be
treated as a trustee for the owner thereof. On the other hand, in actions
at law, it has been repeatedly held that the rate at which sales of licenses of
machines were made, or the established royalty, constitutes the primary
and true criterion of damages.
In the absence of satisfactory evidence of that class which is more appropriate
in the forum where the case is pending, the other class may be resorted to,
as furnishing one of the elements on which the damages, or the compensation, may be ascertained.
A certain instrument (infra, p. 717), held not to be a mere power of attorney,
revocable at the pleasure of the maker, but a contract under which rights
for a specified time were acquired.
As a receipt for the use of four of plaintiffs' machines, executed after the in.
stitution of the suit, was a valid acquittance of any claim for such use, it
was properly admitted in evidence, under the general issue, to reduce the
amount of damages.
Where the evidence merely tended to prove certain disputed facts in issue, It

