LEWIS, TRUSTEE,

V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

sufficiept to say it is without foundation. As the whole matter, then, -oncerns the validity of a State law as affected by
the constitution of the State, that question, and the other one
of the true construction of that statute, belong to the class of
questions in regard to which this court still holds, with some
few exceptions, that the decisions of the State courts are to be
accepted as the rule of decision for the Federal courts.
It is, nevertheless, a satisfaction that our judgment concurs
with that of the State court, and leads us to the same conclusions.
The decrees in all these cases are reversed. The cases are
remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to dissolve the
injunction granted in each case, and to dismiss the bills.
It was said on the argument, and seems to be conceded, that,
in the case of The Chicago, Burlington, & Quincy 1.]. Co., an
agreement existed that the mistake of the board of equalization
in assessing the company on bonds of its leased roads might be
corrected in this suit. No such agreement is on file here, and
we cannot act on it. But when the case is returned to the Circuit Court, of course such decree can be rendered in that regard
as counsel may agree on. A similar remark applies to what
the brief of the attorney-general of the State admits to be an
error to the prejudice of the Chicago and Alton Company.

LEwis, TRuSTE,

v. UNITD STATES.

1. The United States is entitled to priority of payment out of the effects of its
bankrupt or insolvent debtor, whether he be principal or surety, or be
solely, or only jointly with others, liable, and it is immaterial where the
debt was contracted.
2 The United States was the creditor of a firm, A., B., & Co., doing business
in London, and consisting of several persons, some of whom resided there.
The others resided in this country, and, with another partner, constituted
the firm of A. & Co. The members of the latter firm were duly declared
bankrupt, and a trustee was appointed under the forty-third section of the
Bankrupt Act of March 2, 1867. Held, that the relations of the bankrupt
members of the firm of A., B., & Co. to the United States are the same as if
they were severally liable to the United States; and that the United States

Oct. 1875.]

LEWIS,

TRUSTEE, V. UNITED

STATES.

is entitled to the payment of its debt out of their separate property, in preference and priority to all other debts due by them or either of them, or by the
firm of A. & Co.
8. The United States was under no obligation to prove its debt in the bankruptcy
proceedings, or pursue the partnership effects of A., B., & Co. before filing
this bill against the trustee; and the Circuit Court had original jurisdiction
of the case thereby made, although the fund arose, and the trustee was
appointed, under the Bankrupt Act.
4. A creditor holding collaterals is not bound to apply them before enforcing his
direct remedy against his debtor.

APPEA.L from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Xr. William 31. Evarts, Hr. B. L. Ashhurst, and Mr. W. P.
Clough, for the appellant.
Mr. Attorney-General Pierrepont and Mr. 1C.C. clHurtrie,
contra.
M . JUSTICE SwAYlxE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case turns upon legal propositions. There is no controversy about the facts. Jay Cooke, McCulloch, & Co., bankers,
of London, were appointed by the United States disbursing
agents for the Navy Department. On the 19th of October,
1873, they were indebted to the department for the balance of
moneys placed in their hands for disbursement, in the sum of
X131,610 9s. 8d. On or about the 20th of September, 1873,
when the amount due to the department was considerably
larger than that mentioned, the company placed in the hands
of the United States or their agents a large amount of collaterals
for the security of the debt. The United States claim the
right to apply the proceeds of these collaterals to the payment
of another and later debt arising in the same way. Irrespective
of the collaterals, the amount first mentioned, with interest, is
still due and unpaid.
The firm of Jay Cooke, McCulloch, & Co. consisted of Hugh
iMcCulloch, J. H. Puleston, and Frank H. Evans, residents of
Great Britain, and of Jay Cooke, William G. Moorehead, H. C.
Fahnestock, H. D. Cooke, Pitt Cooke, George C. Thomas, and
Jay Cooke, Jr., residents of the United States. For a long
period previous to the time first mentioned there was a banking-house in Philadelphia under the name of Jay Cooke & Co.

620

LEwis, TRusTEE, V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

The members of that firm were the seven American partners
in the house of Jay Cooke, McCulloch, & Co., and James A.
Garland. On the 26th of November, 1873, all the persons
composing the firm of Jay Cooke & Co. were adjudicated bankrupts; and this adjudication remains in full force. This ineluded the seven American members in the house of Jay Cooke,
McCulloch, & Co. The other three partners of this latter firm
are not bankrupt. Under the proceedings in bankruptcy, the
defendant, Lewis, has been appointed trustee of the estates of
the bankrupts of the firm of Jay Cooke & Co., and as such received and holds their several separate individual estates and
assets, and the estates and assets of the firm as well. The estates
of these bankrupts are insufficient to pay all their indebtedness.
The United States, under the statutes in such case provided,
claim priority of payment of their debt before mentioned out of
the separate estates of such members of the firm of Jay Cooke
& Co. as were also members of the debtor firm of Jay Cooke,
McCulloch, & Co. The trustee denies the validity of this demand. The United States have instituted this proceeding to
enforce it.
On the 10th of April, 1875, there was already accumulated
in the hands of the trustee of the funds so claimed by the
United States the sum of $267,844.80.
The Bankrupt Act of March 2, 1867, declares, that, in the
order for a dividend, "the following claims shall be entitled to
priority or preference, and to be first paid in full in the following order: -

"First, Fees, costs, and expenses of suits and of the several proceedings under this act, and for the custody of property, as herein
provided.
"Second, All debts due to the United States, and all taxes and
assessment under the laws thereof."
The fifth section of the act of March 3, 1797 (I Stat. 515),
enacts, -

"That where any revenue officer -or other person hereafter becoming indebted to the United States, by bond or otherwise, shall
become insolvent, or where the estate of any deceased debtor in 'the
hands of executors or administrators shall be insufficient to pay all

Oct. 1875.]

LEWIS,

TRUSTEE, v. UNITED STATES.

621

the debts due from the deceased, the debt due to the United States
shall be first satisfied, and the priority hereby established shall be
deemed to extend as well to cases in which a debtor, not having
sufficient property to pay all his debts, shall make a voluntary assignment thereof, or in which the estate and effects of an absconding, concealed, or absent debtor shall be attached by process of law,
as to the cases in which a legal act of bankruptcy shall be com.
mitted."
It may be well to pause here and carefully analyze this section, and consider the particulars of the category it defines, so
far as its provisions apply to the case in hand.
Those affected are persons "indebted to the United States."
This language is general, and it is without qualification.
The form of the indebtedness is immaterial.
It may be by simple contract, specialty, judgment, decree, or
otherwise by record. The debt may be legal or equitable, and
have been incurred in this country or abroad. A -validindebtedness is as effectual in one form as another. No discrimination is made by the statute.
The debtors may be joint or several, and principals -or sureties.
Here, again, no distinction is made by the statute. All are
included. Beaston v. The Bank of -Delaware, 12 Pet. 134;
United States v. F'isher,2 Cranch, 358.
There must be bankruptcy or else insolvency, as the latter is
defined by the statute and the authorities upon the subject.
As bankruptcy exists here, we need not look beyond that point
in this case. Congress had power to pass the act. 2 Cranch,
396.
Where the language of a statute is transparent, and its
meaning clear, there is no room for the office of construction.
There should be no construction where there is nothing to construe. United States v. Tfiltberger, 5 Wheat. 95; Cherokee
Tobacco, 11 Wall. 621.
That the facts disclosed in the record bring the case within
the plain terms and meaning of the section in question, seems
to us, viewing the subject from our stand-point, almost too
clear to admit of serious controversy. Affirmative discussion,
under such circumstances, is not unlike argument in support of

LEWIS, TRUSTEE, V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup Ot.

a self-evident truth. The logic may mislead or confuse. It
cannot strengthen the pre-existing conviction. 11 Wall. 621.
The statute must prevail, unless its effect shall be overcome
by the considerations to which our attention has been called by
the learned counsel for the appellant. They have argued their
contentions with a wealth of learning and ability commensuirate -with the importance of the case.
We shall respond to their propositions without restating them.
The United States are in no wise bound by the Bankrupt
Act. The clause above quoted is in pari materia with the several acts giving priority of payment to the United States, and
was doubtless put in to recognize and reaffirm the rights which
those statutes give, and to exclude the possibility of a different
conclusion. That the claim of the United States was not
proved in the bankruptcy proceedings in question is, therefore,
United States v. Herron, 20
quite immaterial in this case.
Wall. 251; Harrisonv. Sterry, 5 Cranch, 289.
The case presented is that of a trust fund, a trustee holding
and a cestui que trust claiming it. This gave the Circuit Court
original and plenary jurisdiction. That the fund arose and the
trustee was appointed under the Bankrupt Act did not affect
the right of the United States to pursue both by the exercise
of the jurisdiction invoked. The same remedies are applicable
as if the fund had arisen and the trustee had been appointed
in any other way. 12 Pet. supra; Thomson v. Smith, 2 Wheat.
425.
The United States were under no obligation to pursue the
partnership effects of Cooke, McCulloch, & Co. before filing
this bill. The bankruptcy of the American partners dissolved
the firm of Cooke, McCulloch, & Co., not only as to themselves,
but also, inter se, as to the solvent partners. In analogy to
the proceeding at law, where there are joint debtors and one is
-beyond the reach of the process of the court, and equity has
jurisdiction, a decree may be taken against the other for the
whole amount due. -Darwentv. Walton, 2 Atk. 510. In Nelson v. Hill, 5 How. 127, this court held that the creditor of a
partnersip may proceed at law against the surviving partner,
or go in Ihe first instance into equity against the representatives
of the deceased partner, and that it was not necessary for him

Oct. 1875.]

LEwis, TRUSTEE, V. UNITED STATES.

to exhaust his remedy at law against the surviving partner
before proceeding in equity against the estate of the deceased.
The solvency of the surviving partner is immaterial. To the
same effect are Thorpe v. Jackson, 2 Y. & C. Ex. 553, Wilkinson v. Henderson, 1 M. & K. 582, -x parte Clegg, 2 Cox's
Cas. 372, and Camp v. Grant, 21 Conn. 41. A court of
equity will not entertain the question of marshalling assets,
unless both funds are within the jurisdiction and control of the
court. Adams's Eq. 6 Am. ed., 548, note; Denham v. Williams,
39 Ga. 312; see also Walker v. Covar, 2 S. C., N. s., 16; JDodds
v. Snyder, 34 Ill. 53; Herriman v. Skillman, 33 Barb. 378;
Skunk's Appeal, 2 Barr, 304; Coates's Appeal, 7 Watts & S.
99; Heyner v. .Ke1/ner, 6 Watts, 221. If a judgment at law be
recovered against a copartnership, the separate property of
each partner is alike liable to execution with the property of
the partnership; and equity will not interfere, unless there are
cogent special circumstances, such as have no existence here.
lieech v. Allen, 17 N. Y. 300. These authorities are conclusive
on the point under consideration. If there could otherwise be
a doubt upon the subject, it is removed by the two statutes.
The Bankrupt Law declares that the United States shall be first
paid; the fifth section of the statute of 1797 enacts, that, where
there is a debt and bankruptcy, they shall have priority of payment. Neither statute contains any qualification, and we can
interpolate none. Our duty is to execute the law as we find it;
not to make it. It would be a singular equity which would
,civethe appellees "beyond sea" to carry through a litigation
of uncertain duration, and results against parties there before
they can be permitted to proceed against the parties and property here.
It is a settled principle of equity that a creditor holding collaterals is not bound to apply them before enforcing his direct
remedies against the debtor. Kellock's Case, 3 Ch.App. 769;
Bonser v. Cox, 6 Beav. 84; Tuckley v. Thompson, 1 Johns.
& Hem. Ch. 126; Lord v. The Ocean Bank, 20 Penn. 384;
Neff's Appeal, 9 id. 36. This is admitted; but it is insisted
that there are special considerations here which ought to take
the case out of the general rule. We think those considerations are all of the opposite tendency. One of them is found

LEWIS, TRUSTEE, V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

in the character and circumstances of a large portion of the
collateral assets. The facts are set forth in the answer of the
United States to the cross-bill of the appellant, and need not
be more particularly adverted to. Another of these considerations applies to all the collaterals, and is conclusive.
There are parties entitled to be heard touching the application
of the proceeds who were not, and could not be, brought before
the Circuit Court. According to the best-considered adjudications, no burden touching these assets can be made to rest'
upon the United States, which they are not willing to assume.
Doubtless questions will arise involving much delay before the
administration of the fund is completed. In the mean time, the
United States cannot be barred from enforcing any remedy
to which they are entitled.
The court below committed no error in holding that the
preference of the United States as a creditor of Cooke, McCulloch, & Co. applied to the separate and individual estates of the
bankrupt partners, thus superseding the rule in equity recognized by the Bankrupt Act, -that partnership property is to be
first applied in payment of the partnership debts, and individual
property in payment of the individual debts. ' It is sufficient to
say upon this subject that the learned and elaborate argument
of the appellant's counsel in support of the opposite view overlooks the true meaning and effect of the statutes. The bankrupt parties in question were indebted to the United States,
and they had separate estates. This entitled the United States
to the preference claimed. One of the obvious purposes of the
fifth section of the act of 1797 was to abrogate the rule insist d
upon, and it has clearly done so. The provisions of the Bankrupt Act relied upon do not, as we have shown, affect the
United States. The legal relations of those parties to the
United States, in this controversy, are just what they would
have been if those parties were individual debtors to the
United States, and the firm of Cooke, McCulloch, & Co. had
never existed.
The separate and individual interest of the several partners
in the partnership property of Jay Cooke & Co. can be only
the share of each one of what may be left after discharging
all the liabilities of the copartnership. This will be nothing,

Oct.

1875.]

TowN OF CONCORD v. SAVINGs-BANIK.

62b

the firm being in bankruptcy and conceded to be hopelessly insolvent. The United States can, therefore, have no interest
with respect to the administration of its affairs. Any rights as
to the collaterals held by the United States, claimed by others,
must be settled outside of the present proceeding. They can-Decree affirmed.
not be adjudicated upon in this case.

TowN

OF CONCORD v. PORTSMOUTH SAVINGS BANx.

An act of the general assembly of the State of Illinois in force March 7, 1867,
authorized towns acting under the Township Organization Law of the State
- of which the town of Concord was one -to appropriate money to aid in
the construction of a certain railroad, to be paid to said company as soon as
its track should have been located and constructed through such towns. At
a popular election held in the town of Concord, on the 20th of November,
1869, the proposition to make such appropriation was submitted to the legal
voters thereof, as required by the act; and the town voted the appropriation,
provided the company would run its road through the town. On the 20th of
June, 1870, the company gave notice of its acceptance of the donation; and on
the 9th of October, 1871, town bonds representing such donation were issaed
by the supervisor and town-clerk. Hdd, 1. That undir the statute the
town could not make an appropriation or donation in aid of the company
until its road was located and constructed through the town. 2. That the
constitution of the State, which came into operation July 2, 1870. annulled.
the power of any city, town, or township, to make donations or loan its credit
to a railroad company, and, after that date, rendered the act of 1867 ineffective. 3. As the town had no authority to make a contract to give, and
the acceptance by the company was an undertaking to do nothing which it
was not bound to do, before the authority of the town to make or to engage to,
make a donation came into existence, no valid contract arose from such offer
and acceptance. 4. That the bonds so issued are void.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This was an action of assumpsit to recover the amount of
the coupons attached to certain bonds issued by the supervisor
and town-clerk of the town of Concord, in the State of Illinois.
The act of the general assembly of the State of Illinois,
pursuant to which the bonds recite that they were issued,
provides, " That all incorporated cities and towns acting under the township organization law, which lie wholly or partly within twenty
vol,. i1

40

