,Oct. 1875.]

tBURBANK

v.

BIGELOW ET AL.

upon condition that I am only to be- liable when they are performed; that is, when 8118,000 new stock is subscribed, and
when thirty per cent of the old stock is called in and cancelled, as
per resolution of the company of this date."
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court properly construed
this instrument; and, as it is not proved or asserted that this
stock ever was so reduced, the defendant was not liable on that
contract.
But, when we come to look for the judgment of the Circuit
Court which should be affirmed on these considerations, we find
that there was in that court no final judgment. There exists
in the record only an order reversing the judgment of the District Court. But, supposing a more formal entry to have been
made, it could only be that the judgment and verdict in the
District Court be set aside, and a new trial awarded.
We have so repeatedly decided that such an order as this is
not a final judgment from which a writ of error lies to this
court, that it needs no further discussion. Parcelsv. Johnson,
20 Wall. 653; 31acomb v. Commissioners of KYnox County,
91 U. S.1.
But the case was fully argued by counsel on the merits. The
court, in conference, came to the conclusion (which was unanimous) indicated in this opinion; and we have concluded to let
the opinion accompany the only judgment which we can render
on this record.
Fritof error dismissed.

BURBANK v. BIGELOw ET AL.
I A bill in chancery was filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana by a citizen of Louisiana, the executrix of a deceased
member of a firm, against the surviving partner, a citizen of Wisconsin, for
an account as part of the partnership assets of the proceeds of a judgment
recovered by the latter in said court, in his individual name, for a debt
which she alleged was due the firm. The defendant, prior to the service
of process on him, had on his petition been declared a bankrupt by the
District Court of the United States for the District of Wisconsin; but, answering to the merits, he denied that the debt was due to the partnership.
An amended and supplemental bill was afterwards filed, making a defendant
the assignee in bankruptcy, who adopted in a separate answer the defence set
up by the original defendant. He, in an answer subsequently filed, claimed

BURBANK V. BIGELOW ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

that the said District Court had exclusive jurisdiction in the cause. During
its progress, a receiver was appointed, who collected the amount due on
the judgment. The Circuit Court dismissed the cause for want of jurisdiction. Held, that notwithstanding the proceedings in bankruptcy, and
although the asqignee thereunder may have been appointed and the assignment made to him prior to filing said bill, the Circuit Court, having possession of the subject-matter in controversy as well as jurisdiction of the
parties, had jurisdiction of the cause, and should have decided it upon its
merits.
2. Under sect. 4979 of the Revised Statutes, the Circuit Court of the United
States has, without reference to the citizenship of the parties, jurisdiction
of a suit against an assignee in bankruptcy, brought by any person claim
ing an adverse interest touching any property, or rights of property, transferable to or vested in such assignee.
3. Lathrop, Assigee, v. Drake et al., 91 U. S. 616, and Eyster v. Gaff et aL, id.
521, tited and approved.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
Mr. Benjamin P. Butler for the appellant.
Mr. Thomas . -Durantfor the appellee.

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Louisiana.
The appellant is the widow and executrix of Thomas S.
Burbank, deceased, late of New Orleans, and tutrix of his
minor children. She was complainant below, and filed her bill
on the 8th of February, 1869, against Edmond B. Bigelow,
of Wisconsin, for an account of a certain partnership which
she alleges existed between her husband and said Bigelow;
and, amongst other things, she specially prays that Bigelow
may account for, as part of the partnership assets, the proceeds
of a certain judgment for $13,864.34, which he recovered in
his individual name against one Edward W. Burbank, on thetwenty-seventh day of February, 1866, in the said Circuit Court.
The complainant alleges that this judgment was for a debt due
the partnership, and ought to be applied to the payment of the
partnership debts, a portion of which, to a large amount, are
pressing against her husband's estate.
The court below did not pass upon the merits of the case,
but dismissed the bill for want of jurisdiction; upon what
ground, there being no written opinion in the case, does not

Oct. 1875.]

BURBANK v.

BIGELOW ET AL.

distinctly appear. The only ground alleged in support of the
decree is, that Edmond B. Burbank, the original defendant.
together with one Hancock (a former partner of his), shortly
before the filing of the bill in this case, filed their joint petition
in the District Court of the United States for the District of
Wisconsin to be declared bankrupts, and a decree of bankruptcy
was rendered against them on the twenty-third day of January,
1869; but no assignment was made by the bankrupts until the
11th of February, 1869 (three days after filing the bill), when
an assignment was made to George W. McDougall, of Wisconsin. In his schedule of assets in bankruptcy, Bigelow refers
to the judgment recovered by him against Edward W. Burbank, but states that it had been assigned to W. W. Bigelow,
and conditionally assigned to one Porter for the benefit of
creditors.
The court below is supposed to have dismissed the bill for
want of jurisdiction, on the ground that the controversy belonged exclusively to the Bankrupt Court in Wisconsin, as an
incident to the proceedings in the bankruptcy of Burbank. It
is not pretended that the court had not jurisdiction of the
person of the defendants. Edmond B. Bigelow, the original
defendant, was duly served with process in New Orleans, and
put in an answer to the merits on the 1st of March, 1869.
Thereupon an amended and supplemental bill was filed; and
W. W. Bigelow, 'the alleged special assignee, and George W.
McDougall, the assignee in bankruptcy, were made defendants,
and duly appeared. W. W. Bigelow formally adopted the
answer of Edmond B. Bigelow; and McDougall exhibited the
proceedings in bankruptcy, and, having by order of the court
been subrogated to the rights of Edmond B. Bigelow, filed a
separate answer, adopting the defence set up by him. Subsequently he filed another answer, in which he claimed that
the District Court of Wisconsin alone had jurisdiction of the
case.
During the progress of the cause, on application of the complainant, a receiver was appointed by the court, who collected
the amount due on the judgment referred to in the pleadings.
The court, therefore, had possession of the subject-matter in
controversy, as well as jurisdiction of the parties: so that the

BURBANK v. BIGELOW ET AL.

[Sup. ot.

only question remaining is, whether it had jurisdiction of the
cause, or controversy.
Of this there does not seem to be the slightest doubt. What
possible advantage could be gained by sending the parties to,
Wisconsin to litigate the questions raised in this suit we cannot
perceive. A right of property is controverted. The complainant contends that the fruits of the judgment recovered by
Bigelow, the bankrupt, against Edward W. Burbank, belong
to the firm of which her husband'was a partner. The bankrupt and his assignees deny this. It is a controversy, the
determination of which is clearly embraced within the jurisdiction conferred upon the circuit courts by the second clause
of sect. 2 of the original Bankrupt Act, now sect. 4979 of the
Revised Statutes. We recently decided, in the case of Lathrop, Assignee, v. -Drake et al., 91 U. S. 516, that this jurisdiction may be exercised by any circuit court having jurisdiction
of the parties, and is not confined to the court of the district
in which the decree of bankruptcy was made. THerefore the
time when the bankruptcy occurred or when the assignment
was made is totally immaterial. The court, under the Bankrupt
Act, has jurisdiction of the cause as between the assignee in
bankruptcy and the complainant, without reference to the citizenship of the parties. As between the other parties and the
complainant, of course, citizenship is material. But no objection to the jurisdiction exists on that account .in point of fact,
as the residence of the parties is such as is required in order to
give it. Therefore, though the suit had not been commenced
until after the appointment of the assignee, and after the assignment to him, the complainant might still have instituted
the suit in the Circuit Court in Louisiana, if process could have
been served upon the defendants.
But, inasmuch as the parties were citizens of different States,
she might have done this without the aid of the section referred
to. We recently held, in the case of -yster v. Craff et al., id.
521, that the Bankrupt Law has not deprived the State courts
of jurisdiction over suits brought to decide rights of property
between the bankrupt (or his assignee) and third persons; and,
whenever the State courts have jurisdiction, the circuit courts
of the United States have it, if the proper citizenship of the'

Oct. 1875.]

SMITH ET AL. V. VODGES, ASSIGNEE.

parties exists. In the case last referred to, a suit to foreclose
a mortgage was commenced before the mortgagor went into
bankruptcy; but the decree was not rendered until after that
event and the appointment of an assignee. We decided that
the validity of the suit or of the decree was not affected by
the intervening bankruptcy; that the assignee might or might
not be made a party; and, whether he was or not, he was
equally bound with any other party acquiring an interest pendente lite.
As no other ground was assigned affecting the jurisdiction,
we are of opinion that the court had jurisdiction of the case,
and ought to have decided it upon its merits.
.Decreereversed.

SMITH ET AL. V. VODGES, ASSIGNEE.
In order to defeat a settlement by a husband upon his wife, it must be intended
to defraud existing creditors, or creditors whose rights are expected shortly
to supervene, or those whose rights may and do supervene.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
31r'. N. H. S7tarpless and Hr. ?ic1hard C. Ac~urtrie for the
appellants.
31r. William A. .Dlandersonfor the appellee.

MR. JusTIcE SwAm delivered the opinion of the court.

The law of this case is too well settled to admit of doubt.
In order to defeat a settlement made by a husband upon his
wife, it must be intended to defraud existing creditors, or creditors whose rights are expected shortly to supervene, or creditors whose lights may and do so supervene; the settler purposing
to throw the hazards of business in which he is about to engage
upon others, instead of honestly holding his means subject to
the chance of those adverse results to which all business enterprises are liable. Sexton v. Wheaton, 8 Wheat. 229; Mullen v,
Wilson, 8 Wright, 413; Stilenman v. Ashdown, 2 Atk. 481.

