MORRISON ET AL. V.

JACKSON.

[Sup. at.

.and the only excuse he offers for withholding the patents is,
that the survey is too large; and in consequence of that suggestion the claimant is subjected to further delay. Justice being
denied by the executive officers, application was made to Congress for redress: and Congress, in view of the whole case,
directed the proper officers of the United States to issue the
patent to the original claimant or his legal representatives; and
we are all of the opinion that the defendant, to the extent
speci fled in the patent, is the legal representative of the original
claimant, and that the judgment rendered by the Circuit Court
Judgment affirmed.
is correct.
NOTE. orrison et al. v. Benton, error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Missouri, involved the same questions as the
preceding case, and was argued by the same counsel.
Ma. JusTicE CLIFFOn delivered the opinion of the court. Certain described
parcels of lands, amounting in the aggregate to seven hundred and seventy-nine
acres and one-fourth, are the subject-matter of the controversy in this case.
Those parcels of land.are claimed by the plaintiffs as part of six thousand
arpents conceded under Spanish rule to Gregoire Sarpy, as more fully explained
in the opinion given by the court in the case just decided.
Actual possession of the premises being held by the defendant, the plaintiffs
"brought ejeetment to try the title to the land, claiming to be the legal representatives of the original donee for two undivided third parts of the said several parcels. Service was made; and the defendant appeared and filed an answer, in
which lie specifically describes the several parcels of land which are in his possession, and which he claims as his own property. Apart from that, lie also
,denies that the plaintiffs are entitled to the possession of the land, and alleges
that lie and those under whom he claims have been in the actual, undisturbed,
and continuous adverse possession of the land for ten years and more next before
the suit was commenced.
Both parties appeared and waived a trial by jury, and they agreed to the following facts : that the lands in controversy are within the out-boundary lines of the
survey under which the patent was granted to Gregoire Sarpy or his legal representatives ; that the original donee died in the year 1824, leaving three sons John, Peter, and Thomas - surviving the deceased ; that the plaintiffs claim title
under John and Peter Sarpy, both of whom were living at the date of the act passed
for the relief of Gregoire Sarpy or his legal representatives. 6 Stat. 854.
They also stipulated that Gregoire Sarpy is the same party who, with the
other heirs of Madame Labadie, conveyed the land in question to Wilson P
Runt, under whom the defendant claims title, and that all the grantors in that
deed died before the date of the patent.
Sufficient appears to show that the plaintiffs claim that they are the legal representatives of Gregoire Sarpy, and consequently are the rightful grantees of the
land under the patent issued in obedience to the said act of Congress. 6 Stat.

S54.
Pursuant to that theory, they gave in evidence all the muniments of title in-

(Pt. 1875.]

CENTRAL RATILROAD, ETC.,

Co. v.

GEORGIA.

665

troduced in the case just decided, together with the patent, and maintained the
same propositions as those which they submitted in that case. Opposed to that
theory, the defendant claimed, and still claims, that he is entitled, by purchase and
conveyance, to be regarded as the legal representative of the original donee; and
lie refers to the same muniments of title, with others introduced by him, to show
the justice and validity of his claim.
Hearing was had in the court below, and the court rendered judgment for the
defendant. Appended to the agreed statement of facts are certain conclusions
of law adopted by the Circuit Court ; but it is not deemed necessary to reproduce
those conclusions, as they are substantially the same as those exhibited in the
case already decided.
Dissatisfied with the judgment, the plaintiffs removed the cause into this
court. Since the cause was removed here, the parties have been fully heard;
and, in the judgment of this court, there is no error in the record. Our reasons
for the conclusion are stated in the other case, and will not be repeated, as the
facts and legal questions presented for decision are substantially the same in
Judgment affirmed.
both cases.

CENTRAL RAILROAD Aim BA-nG CO m

arr v. GEORGIA.

1. The consolidation of two companies does not necessarily work a dissolution
of both, and the creation of a new corporation. Whether such be its effect,
depends upon the legislative intent manifested in the statute under which
the consolidation takes place.
2. An act of the legislature authorized two railroad companies (C. and M.) to
unite and consolidate their stocks, and all their rights, privileges, immunities, property, and franchises under the name and charter of C., in such
manner that each owner of shares of the stock of M. should be entitled to
receive an equal number of the shares of the stock of time consolidated companies. The act also declared that all contracts of both companies should
be assumed by and be binding upon C., that its capital should not exceed
their aggregate capital, and that all their benefits and rights should accrue
to it. It was further enacted, that, upon the union and consolidation, each
stockholder of M. should be entitled to receive a certificate for a like number of shares of the stock of C., upon his surrender of his certificate of stock
Held, that consolidation under this act was not a surrender of the
in I.
existing charters of the two companies, and that it did not work the extinction of C., nor the creation of a new company. Held, further, that the consolidated company continued to possess all the rights and immunities which
were conferred upon each company by its original charter.
38. Exemption from liability to any greater tax than one-half of one per centum
of its net annual income having been conferred upon C. by its charter, Held, that it is not in the power of the legislature to impose an increased tax
after the consolidation was effected. Held, further, that inasmuch as M.
possessed no such immunity under its charter, the power of the legislature
to tax its franchises, property, and income, remained unimpaired after its
consolidation with C.

