Oct. 1875.]

UNITED STATES v.

LANDERS.

entitle him to the reward offered, until five months after the
offer had been withdrawn. True, it is found that then, and at
all times until the arrest was actually made, he was ignorant of
the withdrawal; but that is an immaterial fact. The offer of
the reward not having been made to him directly, but by means
of a published proclamation, he should have known that it could
be revoked in the manner in which it was made.
Judgment affirmed.

UMITED STATES v. LA.NDERS.

1. An honorable discharge of a soldier from service does not restore to him pay
and allowances forfeited for desertion.
2. Under the term "allowances," bounty is included.

Court of Claims.
Landers enlisted for three years; was enrolled Jan. 1, 1864;
and mustered into service Jan. 16, 1864, to take effect from
the date of his enrolment. He deserted Nov. 12, 1864; was
arrested June 2, 1865; restored to duty, with the loss of all
pay and allowances due or to become due during the term of
his enlistment; and honorably discharged on the 8th of August, 1865. The Court of Claims rendered judgment in his
favor for an amount equal to his pay and bounty. The United
States appealed.
Mr. Assistant Attorneyr-General -Edwin B. Smith for the
United States.
The Court of Claims erroneously assumes that this court held
in United States v. Kelly, 15 Wall. 34, that the offence of desertion was purged by an honorable discharge. Such is not the
case. Power to try the soldier, or, further, to punish him for
the desertion, is lost by his restoration to duty. Thenceforth
there is nothing to be purged. As part and condition of that
restoration "by competent authority," forfeiture may, however, be decreed of his pay and allowances. Army Reg. 159,
160; R. S. 4749; Judge Ad.-Gen. Holt's Op., p. 139, sects. 7, 9;
p. 136, sect. 1.
If the restoration be, in effect, a pardon (as treated by the
Court of Claims), then it can only be authorized by the PresiAPPEAL from the

78

UNITED STATES v. LANDERS.

[Sup. Ct.

dent, who is solely invested with the power to grant an absolute
or conditional pardon. Llxyarte Wells, 18 How. 807, 814.
Mt. Thomas J. -urant and Hr. A. A. Rosmer, contra.
The plain and definite language adopted by this court in
United States v. Kelly, 15 Wall. 84, establishes the presumptio
juris et de jure of the thing adjudged; that is, the honorable
discharge is a formal, final judgment in favor of the soldiei
,pon his entire military record. This discharge cannot bu
impeached collaterally; nor can any officer of the pay depart
ment disregard its contents, or refuse to give it its legal effect.
M. JusTicE FiELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action in the Court of Claims by the petitionel
for pay and bounty as a soldier in the army of the United
States. It appears from the findings of the court that the
petitioner enlisted in the army for three years; and was enrolled on the 1st of January, 1864; that he was mustered into
service on the 16th of the month, his service to take effect
from the enrolment * that he deserted on the 12th of November
following; and was arrested on the 2d of June, 1865; and was
restored to duty, with the loss of all pay and allowances due or
to become due during the term of his enlistment; and that he
wvas honorably discharged on the 8th of August, 1865. His
claim was for pay for the whole period from his enlistment to
his discharge, including the time of his absence by desertion,
aud for the bounty allowed to a soldier upon his honorable discharge at the expiration of his service.
The Court of Claims held that he was entitled both to pay
and bounty, and gave judgment for the whole amount claimed;
being of opinion that his offence of desertion was purged by his
honorable discharge within the decision of this court in United
States v. Kelly, 15 Wall. 84, and that his case was not covered
by the joint.resolution of Congress of March 1, 1870. 16 Stat.
870.
We have looked into the record in Kelly's case, and we find
it entirely different from this case. Kelly had served from
February, 1864, until October, 1865, during the active operations of the war, and then deserted to visit his parents, reported
to be seriously ill at their home. After an absence of some

Oct. 1875.]

UNITED STATES V. LANDERS.

weeks he voluntarily returned, and subsequently made up for
the time lost by his absence. The fact that the war had virtually closed at the time, the motives which caused the desertion,
and his voluntary return to duty, no doubt had their influence
with his commander, upon whose recommendation he was restored to duty without trial, subject only to the condition that
he should make good the time lost by his desertion. It was
not pretended that his honorable discharge, subsequently
granted, gave him a right to pay during the period of his
absence from the service, or would have dispensed with the
forfeiture of pay prescribed by the army regulations had any
pay been due at the time. Army Regulations, 158, 1358. He
o,,ly claimed subsequent pay and the bounty, after serving the
full period of his enlistment and the additional time lost by his
desertion.
In this case the petitioner deserted at a time when the war
was at its height; and no palliation was proffered for the offence, if any could possibly exist. He kept out of the service,
and thus out of danger, during the severest period of the war,
and was only returned to his company under arrest; and,
though he was restored to duty, it was with the forfeiture of
his pay and allowances for the entire period of his enlistment.
It does not appear, from the record before us, whether this
forfeiture was imposed by order of the commander of the forces
from which he deserted, or by the judgment of a court-martial.
Forfeiture of pay and allowances up to the time of desertion
follows from the conditions of the contract of enlistment, which
is for faithful service. The contract is an entirety; and, if service for any portion of the time is criminally omitted, the pay
and allowances for faithful service are not earned. And, for
the purpose of determining the rights of the soldier to receive
pay and allowances for past services, the fact of desertion need
not be established by the findings of a court-martial: it is sufficient to justify a withholding of the moneys that the fact
appears upon the muster-rolls of his company. If the entry of
desertion has been improperly made, its cancellation can be
obtained by application to the War Department. But forfeiture nf pay and allowances for future services, as a condition of
restoration to duty, can only be imposed by a court-martial.

UNITED STATES v.

LANDERS.

[SUP. CL

Winthrop's Digest of Opinions of the Judge-Advocate General,
p. 269, par. 27. The validity of the forfeiture here is not raised
by counsel. We must, therefore, presume, as the case is presented to us, that the petitioner was brought to trial for his
offence before such a court, and was convicted, and that the
forfeiture imposed was the sentelice of the court.
In Kelly's case, as already stated, the deserter was restored
t, duty without trial, upon his voluntary return; and it was
vith reference to a case of that kind that the Judge-Advocate
General gave the opinion, which is cited with approval by this.
court. In such a case, an honorable discharge of the soldier,
as held by that officer, dispensed with any formal removal of
the charge of desertion from the rolls of his company, au
amounted of itself to a removal of any impediment arising from
the fact of desertion to his receiving bounty. But neither the
Judge-Advocate General, nor this court in adopting his opinion, went to the extent of holding that an honorable discharge
of a soldier dispensed with all the conditions attached to his.
restoration to duty which a military tribunal may have imposed
upon him for a previous military offence. An unconditional
restoration, or one with conditions subsequently complied with,
may leave the soldier who has deserted in as favorable condition for subsequent pay and bounty as though no offence had
been committed by him; but it is otherwise when conditions
inconsistent with such pay or bounty are attached to the restoration, or are imposed as a punishment for a previous military
offence. Assuming that the conduct of the soldier in this case,
subsequent to his restoration to duty, may have entitled him to
an honorable discharge, and that such discharge was not inadvertently granted, the discharge could not relieve him from the
consequences of the judgment of the military court, and entitle
him to the pay and allowances which that court had adjudged
to have been forfeited. The forfeiture must first be removed,
either by its remission in terms, or by the reversal of the judgment, or the pardon of the President..
The bounty which the petitioner claimed was included in
the allowances forfeited. Under the term "allowances," every
thing was embraced which could be recovered from the government by the soldier in consideration of his enlistment ancL

Oct. 1875.]

O'BRIEN v. WELD ET AL.

services, except the stipulated monthly compensation designated
as pay. This is substantially the conclusion reached by the
late Attorney-General, Mr. Hoar, after full consideration of
the statutes bearing upon the question (Opinions of AttorneysGeneral, vol. xiii. pp. 198,199) ; and such, we are informed, has
been the uniform ruling of the War Department.
The conclusion we have thus reached renders it unnecessary
to determine whether the case of the petitioner is covered by
the joint resolution of Congress of March 1, 1870, forbidding
the payment of moneys withheld from a deserter from the volunteer forces, unless the record of his desertion has been cancelled because made erroneously, and contrary to the facts.
Judgment reversed.

O'BRiEN v. WED ET AL.
1. W. & Co., having recovered judgment in a State court, sued out an execution thereon, which was levied upon the property of the defendant. He was
subsequently declared a bankrupt, and an injunction issued by the District
Court of the United States restraining W. & Co. and the sheriff from disposing of that property. W. & Co. thereupon filed their petition in the
latter court, praying that the injunction be so modified as to allow the
sheriff to sell. An order was made granting the prayer of the petition, prescribing the time and manner of the sale, and directing that the proceeds
should be brought into the District Court. This order was served upon the
sheriff, who, pursuant thereto, sold the property, and paid the proceeds into
court. Held, that the sheriff was not liable to W. & Co. for not paying the
money to them upon their execution.
2. The question, whether, under the Bankrupt Act, the District Court had
authority to make the order, and the decision of the highest State court I
adverse to that authority, are sufficient to sustain the :Federal jurisdiction.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of the State of New York.

31r. A. JT TanderpoeZ for the plaintiff in error.
MIr. Granville P. Rawes for the defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUNJT delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought to recover $4,404.72 collected by
the plaintiff in error, as sheriff of the city and county of New
York, under three executions, two of which were issued on
judgments entered in favor of the defendants in error against
Frederick Wiltse and Albert Wiltse jointly and severally, and
VOL. Ir.

6

