BAKER ET AL., ASSIGNEES, V.

BAx.R ET AL., ASSIGNEES,

WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

v. WHITE.

The judgment of a circuit court, reversing that of a district court and ordering
a new trial, is not final; and this court has no jurisdiction to review it.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Connecticut.
11r. Charles -E.Perkins for the plaintiff in error.
11r. A. P. Hyde, contra.

MI. JusTice MI:LLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The. Odorless Rubber Company, being in an embarrassed
condition, undertook to relieve itself by obtaining additional
subscriptions to its capital stock. It was conceived, that, in
order to do this, it was necessary that those holding the existing stock should submit to a reduction of its par value, as it
was not really worth par at that time; and new subscribers
could not be expected to take a stock which they knew to be
below the value they were to pay for it. Accordingly, on the
10th June, 1872, at a meeting of the stockholders, "on motion
of S. L. Warner, it was voted, that whereas the capital stock
of this company now issued, and the assets of the same, have
become impaired to the extent of thirty per cent on the whole
amount of said stock, -to wit, the sum of $72,000.50, - therefore voted, that stock to the amount of $72,112.50 be called in
and cancelled upon the books of this company."
At a former meeting it had been resolved that the capital
stock of the company be increased to $200,000, or eight thousand shares.
The defendant, after these -resolutions had been adopted,
signed the following instrument, and set opposite his name two
hundred and forty, as the number of new shares for which he
subscribed: "We, the undersigned, hereby agree to take the number of shares
of the capital stock of the Odorless Rubber Company placed opposite

our respective names, and pay for the same as follows; to wit, $6.25
per share whenever cash subscriptions to the amount of $118,000
shall have been made, and the balance in equal monthly instalments
of ten per cent each from the date of June 1, A.D. 1872. Said stock

Otct. 1875.]

BAKER ET AL,,

ASSIGNEES, V.

WHITE.

to be fully paid whenever eighty-five per cent of the par value shall
have been paid into the treasury of the company; it being understood
that none of said subscriptions shall be valid or obligatory until at
least said amount of 8118,000 of stock shall have been subscribed
as aforesaid, and that thirty per cent deduction is made on the old
stock of this company, as per vote of stockholders June 10, 1872.
"Dated at Middletown, this tenth day of June, 1872."
He was elected a director, and acted as such for a short time,
and paid his instalments regularly until he had paid $2,700.
He then refused to pay any more; and, the corporation having
been adjudged bankrupt, the plaintiffs, as assignees, brought
the present suit to recover the unpaid instalments, amounting
to $3,800.
Two defences were relied on by defendant: 1. That one of
the conditions on which he agreed to pay was that thirty per
cent of the old stock was to be deducted or extinguished,
and this had not been done. 2. That the subscriptions had
been obtained by fraudulent representations as to the condition
of the company; that the whole proceeding was a fraudulent
design to relieve the old stockholders of a broken corporation
at the expense of the new subscribers; and that, as soon as he
had learned enough of the condition of the company to become
aware of this fraud, he abandoned the concern, and repudiated
the contract.
This suit was brought in the District Court; and the judge
of that court refused to charge the jury, when requested, that
in the true construction of the subscription-paper, above quoted
in full, the subscription was not obligatory until the thirty per
cent reduction of old stock bad been made, and also rejected
evidence of the fraud in obtaining the defendant's subscription.
On a writ of error to the Circuit Court, where these matters
were shown by a bill of exceptions taken in the District Court,
the judgment of that court was reversed.
The Circuit Court rested its judgment on the construction of
the subscription-paper; and as that is sufficient to dispose of the
case, and as we concur in the view taken by that court, we shall
only consider that question.
Thu counsel for plaintiffs in error construed the paper as if
it read thus : VOL. I.
12

BAKER ET AL., ASSIGNEES,

V. WHITE.

[Sup. t

"It being understood that none of the subscriptions shall be
valid or obligatory until at least said amount of $118,000 of stock
shall have been subscribed as aforesaid, and it being also understood
that thirty per cent deduction is made on the old stock of this company, as per vote of stockholders June 10, 1872.
"Dated Middletown, the tenth day of June, 1872."
Reading it thus, they argue that the last clause, relating to
the thirty per cent deduction, is only a representation of what
was understood to be an existing fact at the time it was made,
and not a condition like the one as to the amount of stock to
be taken, without which the subscription was not obligatory.
It is possible so to construe the language of the instrument,
if the surrounding circumstances demanded it. But to one
who saw the paper for the first tine, and knew nothing more,
it would seem a forced, and not a natural, construction. If the
word "that" just before "thirty per cent" were omitted in
the original, the plain grammatical meaning would be, that the
subscriptions were only obligatory in case the $118,000 of stock
was subscribed, and the thirty per cent of the old stock called
in or deducted.
We cannot give to the use of the word "that" such force
as to destroy the natural and reasonable meaning which the
sentence would have without it.
But when, leaving grammatical and verbal criticism, we look
to the admitted surrounding circumstances of the case, what
was meant is quite clear.
I The paper bears the same date as the resolution to reduce
the stock. That resolution did not profess to have the effect
of reducing the stock of itself, but only declared that 872,112.50 of said stock be called in, - a thing to be done in future ;
and the bill of exceptions shows that the directors accordingly
made an effort to get the stockholders to surrender and cancel
stock to that amount, but failed to get it done.
When a subscriber put his name to the agreement to take
new stock, the obtaining of the $118,000, on which his subqcription depended for its validity, was a thing to be accomplished in the future:' and so, on the tenth day of June, - the
date of this paper, - a subscriber, looking to these two things
promised, but yet to be performed, said, "I subscribe, but it is

,Oct. 1875.]

tBURBANK

v.

BIGELOW ET AL.

upon condition that I am only to be- liable when they are performed; that is, when 8118,000 new stock is subscribed, and
when thirty per cent of the old stock is called in and cancelled, as
per resolution of the company of this date."
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court properly construed
this instrument; and, as it is not proved or asserted that this
stock ever was so reduced, the defendant was not liable on that
contract.
But, when we come to look for the judgment of the Circuit
Court which should be affirmed on these considerations, we find
that there was in that court no final judgment. There exists
in the record only an order reversing the judgment of the District Court. But, supposing a more formal entry to have been
made, it could only be that the judgment and verdict in the
District Court be set aside, and a new trial awarded.
We have so repeatedly decided that such an order as this is
not a final judgment from which a writ of error lies to this
court, that it needs no further discussion. Parcelsv. Johnson,
20 Wall. 653; 31acomb v. Commissioners of KYnox County,
91 U. S.1.
But the case was fully argued by counsel on the merits. The
court, in conference, came to the conclusion (which was unanimous) indicated in this opinion; and we have concluded to let
the opinion accompany the only judgment which we can render
on this record.
Fritof error dismissed.

BURBANK v. BIGELOw ET AL.
I A bill in chancery was filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana by a citizen of Louisiana, the executrix of a deceased
member of a firm, against the surviving partner, a citizen of Wisconsin, for
an account as part of the partnership assets of the proceeds of a judgment
recovered by the latter in said court, in his individual name, for a debt
which she alleged was due the firm. The defendant, prior to the service
of process on him, had on his petition been declared a bankrupt by the
District Court of the United States for the District of Wisconsin; but, answering to the merits, he denied that the debt was due to the partnership.
An amended and supplemental bill was afterwards filed, making a defendant
the assignee in bankruptcy, who adopted in a separate answer the defence set
up by the original defendant. He, in an answer subsequently filed, claimed

