412

BUTLER v. THOMSON ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

necessary, as the defendants axe concluded by the finding of
the Circuit Court. Among other things, the Circuit Court
found, that when the owner of the ship sends out an agent
to a foreign port, into which the ship has put in distress, to
advise and assist the master, for the benefit of ship and cargo,
the usage of the port of New York is, that the amount paid for
the services of such agent and his board and travelling and
incidental expenses are allowed in general average, without
regard to the question, whether or not he reaches the port of
distress in time actually to render service, provided he is sent
out in good faith, with the intention that he shall render service for the general benefit. It appeariig that the adjustment
was made in conformity to the usage of the port in that regard,
the court is of the opinion that the charge was properly allowed, and that there is no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY dissenting.

I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case. It
seems to me a dangerous precedent to allow contribution to the
crew's wages when a ship does not deviate from her course, but
is merely delayed for repairs on the route of her regular voyage.
Such claims will too often be put forward, and a shipper will
never know when he has done paying freight for the transportation of his property. I concede that the American rule is
more liberal in this respect than the English; but I think it
has never been carried io far as the present case.

BUTER v.

THOMSON ET A..

The following memorandum of a contract of sale signed by the agents of the
purchaser and the seller, to wit, "NEw Yoa:, July 10, 1867.
"Sold for Messrs. Butler & Co., Boston, to Messrs. A. A. Thomson & Co.,
New York, seven hundred and five (705) packs first quality Russia sheet-iron,
to arrive at New York, at twelve and three quarters (121) cents per pound, gold,
cash, actual tare.
"Iron due about Sept. 1, '67.
"WHITE & HAZARD, Brokers.'"
-binds
both parties thereto.

Oct. 1875.]

BUTLER V. TnomisoN ET AL.

ErROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
.AIr. William H. Evarts for the plaintiff in error.
A r. E. . Owen, contra.
MfR,. JUSTICE HuNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff alleged that on the eleventh day of July, 1867,
he bargained and sold to the defendants a quantity of iron
thereafter to arrive, at prices named, and that the defendants
agreed to accept the same, and pay the purchase-money therefor; that the iron arrived in due time, and was tendered to the
defendants, who refused to receive and pay for the same; and
that the plaintiff afterwards sold the same at a loss of 6,581,
which sum he requires the defendants to make good to him.
The defendants interposed a general denial.
Upon the trial, the case came down to this: The plaintiff
employed certain brokers of the city of New York to make
sale for him of the expected iron. The brokers made sale of
the same to the defendants at 121 cents per pound in gold, cash.
The following memorandum of sale was made by the brokers ;
viz.

-

"Nuw YoRK, July 10, 1867.

"Sold for Messrs. Butler & Co., Boston, to Messrs. A. A. Thomson & Co., New York, seven hundred and five (705) packs first.
quality Russia sbeet-iron, to arrive at New York, at twelve and
three-quarters (12,) cents per pound, gold, cash, actual tare.
"Iron due about Sept. 1, '67.
" WHiTE & HAZZARD, .Brokers."
The defendants contend, that, under the Statute of Frauds
of the State of New York, this contract is not obligatory upon
them. The judge before whom the cause was tried at the
circuit concurred in this view, and ordered judgment for the
defendants. It is from this judgment that the present review
is taken.
The provision of the statute of New York upon which the
question arises (2 R. S. 186, sect. 3) is in these words:"Every contract for the sale of any goods, chattels, or things in
action, for the price of fifty dollars or more, shall be void, unless
(1) a note or memorandum of such contract be made in writing,

BUTLER v. THOMSON ET

AL.

[Sup. Ct

and be subscribed by the parties to be charged thereby; or (0)
unless the buyer shall accept and receive part of such goods, or the
evidences, or some of them, of such things in action; or (3) unless
the buyer shall at the time pay some part of the purchase-money."
The eighth section of the same title provides that "every
instrument requied by any of the provisions of this title to be
subscribed by any party may be subscribed by the lawful agent
of such party."
There is no pretence that any of the goods were accepted
and received, or that any part of the purchase-money was paid.
The question arises upon the first branch of the statute, that a
memorandum of the contract shall be made in writing, and be
subscribed by the parties to be charged thereby.
The defendants do not contend that there is not a sufficient
subscription to the contract. White & Hazzard, who signed
the instrument, are proved to have been the authorized agents
of the plaintiff to sell, and of the defendants to buy; and their
signature, it is conceded, is the signature both of the defendants and of the plaintiff.
The objection is to the sufficiency of the contract itself.
The written memorandum recites that Butler & Co. had sold
the iron to the defendants at a price named; but it is said there
is no recital that the defendants had bought the iron. There
is a contract of sale, it is argued, but not a contract of purchase.
As -we understand the argument, it is an attack upon the
contract, not only that it is not in compliance with the Statute
of Frauds, but that it is void upon common-law principles.
The evidence required by the statute to avoid frauds and perjuries-to wit, a written agreement-is present. Such as it
is, the contract is sufficiently established, and possesses the evidence of its existence required by the Statute of Frauds.
The contention would be the same if the articles sold had not
been of the price named in the statute; to wit, the sum of fifty
dollars.
Let us examine the argument. Blackstone's definition of a
sale is "a transmutation of property from one man to another in
consideration of some price." 2 Bl. 446. Kent's is, "a contract
for the transfer of property from one person to another." 2 Kent,
615. Bigelow, C. J., defines it in these words: "Competent

Oct. 1875.]

BUTLER V. THOMSON ET AL.

parties to enter into a contract, an agreement to sell, the mutual
assent of the parties to the subject-matter of the sale, and the
price to be paid therefor." Gardner v. Lane, 12 Allen, 39, 43.
A learned author says, "If any one of the ingredients be
wanting, there is no sale." Atkinson on Sales, 5. Benjamin on Sales, p. 1, note, and p. 2, says, "To constitute a
valid sale, there must be (1) parties competent to contract;
(2) mutual assent; (3) a thing, the absolute or general property in which is transferred from the seller to the buyer,
(4) a price in money, paid or promised."
How, then, can there be a sale of seven hundred and five
packs of iron, unless there be a purchase of it? How can there
be a seller, unless there be likewise a purchaser? These authorities require the existence of both. The essential idea of a sale
is that of an agreement or meeting of minds by which a title
passes from one, and vests in another. A man cannot sell his
chattel by a perfected sale, and still remain its owner. There
may be an offer to sell, subject to acceptance, whi6h would
bind the party offering, and not the other party until acceptance. The same may be said of an optional purchase upon a
sufficient consideration. There is also a class of cases under
the Statute of Frauds where it is held that the party who has
signed the contract may be held chargeable upon it, and the
other party, who has not furnished that evidence against himself, will not be thus chargeable. Unilateral contracts have
been the subject of much discussion, which we do not propose
here to repeat. In Thornton v. Kempster, 5 Taunt. 788, it is
said, "Contracts may exist, which, by reason of the Statute of Frauds,
could be enforced by one party, although they could not be enforced
by the other party. The Statute of Frauds in that respect throws
a difficulty in the way of the evidence. The objection does not
interfere with the substance of the contract, and it is the negligence
of the other party that he did not take care to obtain and preserve
admissible evidence to enable himself also to enforce it."
The statute of 29 Car. II., c. 3, on which this decision is based,
that "no contract for the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, for the price of 010 sterling or upwards, shall be allowed
to be good except the buyer," &c., is in legal effect the same

BUTLER V. THOMSON ET AL.

[Sup. 0t,

as that of the statute of New York already cited. See Tustice
v. Lang, 42 N. Y. 203, that such is the effect of the statute of
New York.
The case before us does not fall within this class. There the
contiact is signed by one party only; here both have signed
the paper; and, if a contract is created, it is a mutual one.
Both are liable, or neither.
Under these authorities, it seems clear that there can be no
sale unless there is a purchase, as there can be no purchase
unless there be a sale. When, therefore, the parties mutually
certify and declare in writing that Buder & Co. have sold a
certain amount of iron to Thomscn & Co. at a price named,
there is included therein a certificate and ieclaration tuat
Thomson & Co. have bought the iron at that price.
In Radford v. Newell, L. R. 3 C. P. 52, the memorandum
was in these words: "Mr. H., 32 sacks culasses at 39s., 280 lbs.,
to wait orders;" signed, "John Williams." It was objected
that it was impossible to tell from this memorandum which
party was the buyer, and which was the seller. Parol proof
of the situation of the parties was received, and that Williams
was the defendant's agent, and made the entry in the plaintiff's
books. In answer to the objection the court say, "The plaintiff was a baker, who would require the flour, and the defendant a person who was in the habit of selling it;" and the
plaintiff recovered. It may be noticed, also, that the memorandum in that case was so formal as to contain no words
either of purchase or sale (" Mr. H., 32 sacks culasses at 39s.,
280 lbs., to wait orders "); but it was held to create a good
contract upon the parol evidence mentioned.
The subject of bought and sold notes was elaborately discussed in the case of Sievenright v. Archibald, 6 Eng. L. &
Eq. 286; s. c. 17 Q. B. 103; Benj. on Sales, p. 224, sect.
290.
There was a discrepancy in that case between the
bought and sold notes. The sold note was for a sale to the
defendant of "500 tons Messrs. Dunlop, Wilson, & Co.'s pigiron." The bought note was for "500 tons of Scotch pig-iron."
The diversity between the bought and sold notes was held to
avoid the contract. It was held that the subject of the contract was not agreed unnu between the parties. It appeared

o t. 1875.]

BUTLER v. THOMSON ET AL.

there, and the circumstance is commented on by Mr. Justice
Patteson, that the practice is to deliver the bought note to the
buyer, and the sold note to the seller. He says, "Each of them,
in the language used, purports to be a representation by the
broker to the person to whom it is delivered, of what he, the
broker, has done as agent for that person. Surely the bought
note delivered to the buyer cannot be said to be the memorandum of the contract signed by the buyer's agent, in order that
he might be bound thereby; for then it would have been delivered to the seller, not to the buyer, and vice versa as to the sold
note."
The argument on which the decision below, of the case we
are considering, was based, is that the contract of sale is distinct from the contract of purchase; that, to charge the purchaser, the suit should be brought upon the bought note; and
that the purchaser can only be held where his agent has signed
and delivered to the other party a bought note, - that is, an
instrument expressing that he has bought and will pay for the
articles specified. Mr. Justice Patteson answers this by the
tatement that the bought note is always delivered to the buyer,
and the sold note to the seller. The plaintiff here has the signature of both parties, and the counterpart delivered to him,
and on which he brings his suit, is, according to Mr. Justice
Patteson, the proper one for that purpose, -that is, the sold
note.
We do not discover in Justice v. Lang, reported in 42 N. Y.
493, and again in 52 N. Y. 323, any thing that conflicts with
the views we have expressed, or that gives material aid in
deciding the points we have discussed.
The memorandum in question, expressing that the iron had
been sold, imported necessarily that it had been bought. The
contract was signed by the agent of both parties, the buyer and
the seller, and in our opinion was a perfect contract, obligatory
upon both the parties thereto.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded for a new trial,
VOL. Ir.

