Oct. 1875.]

COUNTY OF MOULTRIE V. SAVINGS-BANK.

631

We conclude, then, that, at the time the donation was made,
there was no authority in the municipality to make a donation
to the railroad company, and consequently no authority to issue
the bonds. It follows that the bonds and coupons are -void.
Judgment reversed and new trial ordered.

COUNTY

OF

MOULTRIE

V.

ROCK

IGHTA

TFN-CFNT

SAVINGS-BANK.
1. An act of the general assembly of the State of Illinois, approved March 26,
1869, authorized the board of supervisors of Moultrie County to subscribe
to the stock of the Decatur, Sullivan. and Mattoon Railroad Company, to
an amount not exceeding .580,000, and to issue bonds therefor when the
road should be opened for traffic between the city of Decatur and the town of
Sullivan. In December, 1869, the board of supervisors ordered that a subscription to the stock of that company, in the sum of $80,000, be made by the
county; and that, in payment therefor, bonds payable to said company should
be issued and delivered to it, when the road should be so open for traffic.
No subscription was actually made on the books of the company; but its
president and clerk entered of record the resolution of the board of supervisors, and the company, by a contract made April 15, 1870, appropriated
the bonds that would be received in payment of that subscription. The
bonds were delivered to the company and the road was so open to traffic
early in 1873. By the constitution of the State, which took effect July 2,
1870, counties were prohibited from subscribing to the capital stock of any
railroad or private corporation, or from making donations to or loaning their
credit in aid of such corporations. Held, that whether the action of the
board in December, 1869, be in substance and legal effect a subscription, or
only an undertaking to subscribe which was accepted by the company, a
valid contract existed between the county and the company, which, when
the new constitution took effect, authorized the subsequent delivery of the
bonds.
2. The board of supervisors, acting under the authority of the act in question,
could bind the county by a resolution, which, in favor of private persons
interested therein, might, if so intended, operate as a contract; and the obligation thereby assumed would continue in force after July 2, 1870, although
the power to eater into such a contract was, after that date, withdrawn.
3. The holder of the bonds purchased them before their maturity, and without
notice of any defence. They recite that they are issued by the county
in pursuance of the subscription of the capital stock of said company, made
by the board of supervisors of the county, December, 1869, in conformity to
the provisions of an act of the general assembly above mentioned. The
purchaser was thus assured that the subscription was made when they had
authority to make it; and it would be tolerating a fraud to permit the county,
when called upon for payment, to set up that it was not made until after
July 2, 1870, when their authority had expired.

682

COUNTY OF MOULTRIE V.

SAVINGS-BANK.

[SUp. Ct.

The constitution of d State cannot impair the obligation of a contract; but
the Constitution of Illinois declares that the contracts of bodies corporate
-shall continue to be as valid as if it had not been adopted. The power
to subscribe carried with it authority to issue bonds for the sum subscribed, and, the subscription being valid, the bonds are equally so.

ERR R to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
11r. John B. -Eden and ir. W. J. Henry for the plaintiff in
error.
JKr. S. H. Cullom, contra.

MR. JUsTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
This case differs very materially from Town of Concord v.
Portsmouth Savings-Bank, supra, p. 625. We there held that
the bonds were void because the legislative authority to issue
them as a donation to the railroad company had been annulled by
the constitution of the State before the donation was made. In
the -present case the authority exercised was given to the county
by the act of March 26, 1869, incorporating the railroad company. The tenth section of the act was as follows: " The board of supervisors of Moultrie County are hereby authorized to subscribe to the capital stock of said company, to an amount
not exceeding 880,000, and to issue the bonds of the county therefor,
bearing interest at a rate not exceeding ten per cent per annum,
said bonds to be issued in such denominations and to mature at such
times as the board of supervisors may determine: -Provided,that
the same shall not be issued until the said road shall be opened for
traffic between the city of Decatur and the town of Sullivan aforesaid."
No approving popular vote was required.
It is not to be doubted that this section gave to the county
complete authority to make a subscription to the capital stock
of the company. The power was fettered by no conditions or
limitations, except as to the amount which might be subscribed;
but the payment of the subscription was directed to be postponed until the railroad should be opened. And, of course, as
a greater power includes every constituent part of it, the legislative act empowered the board of supervisors to agree to sub-

Oct. 1875.]

COUNTY OF MOULTRIE V. SAVINGS-BANK.

633

scribe preparatory to an actual subscription. The power thus
granted was never revoked, unless it was by the new constitution of the State, which did not take effect prior to July 2,
1870. Whatever was done in pursuance of the power before
that time, if any thing was, could not be affected by the constitution, subsequently adopted. Subscriptions, or contracts to
subscribe, made in pursuance of it before it was abrogated,
remained binding; for a constitution can no more impair the
obligation of a contract than ordinary legislation can. It must
be conceded, that, had no subscription been made, or engagement to subscribe entered into, before the new constitution took
effect, none could have been made after. But the special finding of facts shows that one was made in 1869. On the 16th
of December of that year, the board of supervisors met and
informally resolved to subscribe $80,000 to the capital stock of
the railroad company; and the resolutions were referred to a
lawyer, to be put in form before being recorded on the records
of the board. They were accordingly prepared from minutes
furnished by the chairman of the board, and entered by'the
clerk upon the records, as of the date of the December meeting
of the board, and duly attested. This must have been done
prior to the first Tuesday in March, 1870. The record, as it
appears under date of Dec. 14, 1869, is as follows: "And it is further ordered by the board of supervisors of Moultrie County, that, under and by virtue of the authority conferred
upon said board by an act approved March 26, A.D. 1869, entitled
'An Act to incorporate the Decatur, Sullivan, and Mattoon Railroad Company,' the county of Moultrie subscribed to the capital
stock of the Decatur, Sullivan, and Mattoon Railroad Company
the sum of $80,000 to aid in the construction of a railroad by said
con ouny, in pursuance of their charter.
And be it further ordered by the board of supervisors aforesaid, that, when said railroad shall be ' open for traffic' between the
city of Decatur and the town of Sullivan aforesaid, there be issued
$80,000 of the bonds of said county, in denominations of not less
than $500, payable to said company, drawing interest, to be paid
annually, at the rate of eight per cent per annum; the principal
to be due and payable ten years after date, or sooner, at the option
of the county; and that said bonds be delivered to said railroad
company in full payment of the subscription of said county so
made as aforesaid."

634

COUNTY OF MOULTRIE v. SAVINGS-BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

It is true, there was no further order of this board to enter
the resolutions of record, but it was the clerk's duty to make
the entry. The substance of them had been adopted. They
required no further action except to put them in form. No
further action appears to have been contemplated. They remain of record still, and the board has never taken any action to
correct the record. On the contrary, it has been recognized
by. subsequent action. At the December meeting of 1872, a
special committee was appointed to examine the records of subscriptions of railroad donations, and report. The committee
did report on the 25th of December, 1872, that the subscription
of $80,000, under the act of the general assembly of March
26, 1869, to aid in the construction of the Decatur, Sullivan,
and Mattoon Railroad, was in accordance with law. Under
this action of the board, and the report of the committee, the
bonds were delivered. It is impossible, therefore, to doubt that
the resolutions adopted in December, 1869, as recorded, must
be treated as the action of the board at that time. And, if so,
they amounted to a subscription to the stock of the company,
and created an obligation for the payment of the subscription
in county bonds. It is true no subscription was made on the
books of the railroad company until July, 1871, when one was
made by Mlr. Titus, chairman of the board, without any express
authority, and then made for the .purpose of enabling him to
vote at an election. But a subscription on the books of the
company was unnecessary, for that which amounted to a subscription had been made in December, 1869. The authorized
body of a municipal corporation may bind it by an ordinance,
which, in favor of private persons interested therein, may, if so
intended, operate as a contract, or they may bind it by a
resolution, or by vote clothe its officers with power to act for
it. The former was the clear intention in this case. The board
clothed no officer with power to act for it. The resolution to
subscribe was its own act; its immediate subscription. Western
Saving-1Fund Sooiety v. The City of Philadelphia,31 Penn. St.
174; Sacramento v. Kirk, 7 Cal. 419; Logansport v. Blakemore,
17 Ind. 318. In The Justices of Clarke County Court v. Vie
-Paris, Winchester, and Kentuck~y River Turnpike Company,
11 B. Mon. 143, it was ruled that an order of the County

Oct. 1875.]

COUNTY OF M ULTRIE V. SAVINGS-BANK.

635

Court, by which it was said the court subscribed, or. behalf of
Clarke County, for fifty shares of stock in the turnpike company, if concurred in by a competent majority of the magistrates, was itself a subscription, and bound the county. There
was no subscription on the books of the company, but the
Court of Appeals said, "We cannot, therefore, regard this
order as a mere offer or pledge to subscribe the fifty shares in
this particular road, but as actually taking, and, in substance
and legal effect subscribing for, that number of shares." So in
Nugent v. The Supervisors of Putnam Gounty, 19 Wall. 241, it
was said, that to constitute a subscription by a county to stock
in a railroad company, it is not necessary that there be an act
of manual subscribing on the' books of the company. These
cases lead directly to the conclusion that the action of the
board of supervisors in December, 1869, was in substance and
in legal effect a subscription.
And if this conclusion could not be reached, it would make
but little difference to the present case; for it could not be
doubted that the action of the board was at least an undertaking to subscribe, and this was assented to or accepted by the
railroad company. The resolutions were entered of record by
the clerk and president of the railroad company; and the company made an appropriation of the bonds to be received in payment for the subscription, by a contract made on the 15th of
April, 1870. In either aspect of the case, therefore, there was
an authorized contract existing between the county and the
railroad company when the new constitution came into operation. No matter whether the contract was a subscription or an
agreement to subscribe, it was not annulled or impaired by the
prohibitions of the constitution. The delivery of the bonds
was no more than performance of the contract. For these reasons, it is in vain to appeal to the decisions made in Aspinwall
v. The Coun2ty of Davies, 22 How. 364, and Town of Concord v.
PortsmouthSavings-BanTk,supra,p.625. In neither of those cases
was there any contract made before the authority to make one
was annulled. We do not assert that the constitutional provision did not abrogate the authority of the board of supervisors
to make a subscription for railroad stock. On the contrary, we
think it did. But we hold that contracts made under the

686

COUNTY

OF AMOULTRIE V.

SAVINGS-BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

power while it was in existence were valid contracts, and that
the obligations assumed by them continued after the power to
enter into such contracts was withdrawn. The operation of the
constitution was only prospective. Indeed, it is expressly ordained in its schedule that "all rights, actions, prosecutions,
claims, and contracts of the State, individuals, or bodies corporate, shall continue to be as valid as if this constitution had
not been adopted." It is hardly necessary to say, that, under
the act of the general assembly, the authority to make a subscription was coupled with an authority and a duty to issue
county bonds for the sum subscribed. No action of the board
was needed after the subscription was made.
This disposes of the only material question in the case.
There is, however, another consideration that is worthy of
notice. The findings of the court are, that the plaintiff below
is a purchaser of the bonds for a valuable consideration, having
purchased them before their maturity, and without notice of any
defence. They were executed by the president of the board of
supervisors and the county-clerk. They recite that they are
issued by the county of Moultrie, "in pursuance of the subscription of the sum of $80,000 to the capital stock of the
Decatur, Sullivan, and Mattoon Railroad Company, made by
the board of supervisors of said county of Moultrie, in December, A.D. 1869, in conformity to the provisions of an act of the
general assembly of the State of Illinois, approved March 26,
A.D. 1869."
Now, if it be supposed that the purchaser of bonds with such
recitals was bound to look further and inquire what was the
authority for the issue, where was he to look? Had he looked
to the act of the general assembly of March 26, 1869, he would
have found plenary authority for a stock subscription, and for
the issue of bonds in payment thereof. If he was bound tc
know that the constitutional provision terminated that author
ity after July 2, 1870, he knew that any subscription made
before that time continued binding, notwithstanding the constitution, and that bonds issued in payment of it were, therefore, lawful. If, then, he had inquired whether a subscription
had been made before July 2, 1870, at the only place where
inquiry should have been made, - namely, at the records of the

Oct. 1875.]

MIARCY

v. TowNsHIP OF OSWEGO.

board, - he would have found an order to subscribe, equivalent
to a subscription made, in December, 1869, corresponding with
;he assertions of the recitals, and declared by them to have
been a subscription. He could have made inquiry nowhere
else with any prospect of learning the truth. Every step he
could have taken assured him that the recitals were true. I-w,
then, can the county be permitted to set up against a 3ona fide
holder of the bonds, that the authority to make a subscription
with all its legitimate consequences had expired before the subscription was made, in the face of the recitals and of the county
records? Whether it had expired was a matter of fact, not of
law; and it was peculiarly, if not exclusively, within the knowledge of the board of supervisors. After having assured a purchaser that their subscription was made in December, 1869,
when they had power to make it, it would be tdlerating a fraud
to permit the county to set up, when called upon for payment,
that it was not made until after July 2,1870, when their authority expired.
It is unnecessary to say more. Some matters which we have
not noticed were assigned as errors, but they were not mentioned in the argument, and, in our opinion, they exhibit no
Judgment affirmed.
error in the court below.
MR. JusTcC

MTTT R, MB. JUSTICE DAVIs, and MR. Jus-

TICE F LD, dissented.

MARcy v. TowxTsn= oF OSWEGO.
1. An act of the legislature of Kansas of Feb. 25, 1870, provides, that whenever fifty of the qualified voters, being freeholders of any municipal township in any county, shall petition the board of county commissioners of such
county to submit to the qualified voters of the township a proposition to
take stock in any railroad proposed to be constructed into or through such
township, and shall designate in the petition the railroad company, and the
amount of stock proposed to be taken, it shall be the duty of the board to
cause an election to be held, to determine whether such subscription shall be
made; provided, that the amount of bonds voted shall not be above such a
sum as will require a levy of more than one per cent per annum on the taxable property of the township, to pay the yearly interest on the amount of
bonds issued. In the event of the vote being favorable, the board of

