PACE v. BURGESS,

PACE v. BURGESS,

OOLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

COLLECTOR.

1. The acts of Congress of July 20, 1868 (15 Stat. 157), and June 6, 1872 (17 id.
254), so far as they relate to snuff and tobacco intended for exportation, do
not impose a tax or duty on exports within the meaning of that clause of
the Constitution which declares that "no tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State."
2 The -stamp thereby required was a means devised for the prevention of fraud
by separating and identifying the tobacco intended for exportation; thus
relieving it from the taxation to which other tobacco was subjected.
8 The proper fees accruing in the due administration of the laws and regulations
necessary for the protection of the government against imposition and
frauds likely to be committed under the pretext of exportation, are, in no
sense, a duty on exports. They are simply the compensation given for
services properly rendered.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Virginia.
The question raised in this case was, whether the charge for
the stamps required to be placed on packages of manufactured
tobacco intended for exportation was a tax or duty on exports
within the meaning of the constitutional prohibition.
=lliam
P. Burwell and Mr. C. S. Strinof'ellow for the
3r. W
plaintiff in error.
The constitutional provision that "no tax or duty shall be
laid on articles exported from any State" absolutely prohibits
Congress from imposing a pecuniary charge on them, whether
it consists of a tax or duty, or is laid in the form of excises or
imposts; and it is immaterial whether or not the professed object be to identify and separate the articles which are intended
for export or to prevent fraud.
It has been insisted, however, that these charges are only for
the regulation of trade, and are not a tax or duty for the purpose of revenue. This is entirely immaterial. In the constitutional convention, an amendment proposing to insert, after
"duty" in the existing provision, the words "for the purpose
of revenue," was rejected by a vote of eight States to three.
Madison Debates, p. 456.
The asserted fact, that it was not the intention of Congress
to give the character of an export tax to the money exacted by
the laws in question, is entitled to no weight. Their constitu-

Oct. 1875.]

PACE v. BURGESS, COLLECTOR.

tionaliy cannot be determined by such intention. In Brown
v. itfarffiand, 12 Wheat. 49, the articles imported were not
taxed, but the importer was required to pay for a license to
8ell them. No one intimated that the legislature of Maryland
designed to regulate the foreign commerce in which her citizens
were engaged. It was contended, however, that the State had.
aA idoubted right to tax the occupation of all persons within
hei limits; but this court held that this "was but varying
the form without varying the substance of the thing prohibited." So, in this case, the purchase of the required revenuestamps by the plaintiff in error at the time the officer made the
ent ty is but the purchase of the privilege of exporting, and is
equivalent to taking out a license and paying the United States
therefor. The practical result'is the same as if a tax or duty
was specifically laid upon each exported package of manufactured tobacco.
Almy v. State of California, 24 How. 169, is another case
bearing fully on the case at bar. This court held that the
California statute was clearly within the terms of the prohibition on the States in regard to the subject of exports. If,
therefore, it was an unconstitutional exercise of power in a
State to levy a tax on a bill of lading, which the court regarded
as an inseparable incident to a shipment abroad, how much
more would it have regarded a stamp-tax laid directly on the
article about to be exported! Chief Justice Taney stated, that,
if the stamp had been required to be placed on the packages
of gold dust, every one would see at a glance that such a tax
would be repugnant to the prohibition. Yet that is exactly
what the acts of Congress in question have required in regard
to the exportation of this tobacco, although a much more
stringent prohibition is imposed on that body than on the
States.
The amount required to be paid for the stamp is wholly unimportant in determining the question submitted. It is one
of constitutional power.
lIr. .Assistant Attorney/- General -Edwin B. Smith, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRAD:LY delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error brought this suit to recover from the

PACE v. BUURGESS, COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

defendant (who was collector of internal revenue) the amount
paid by plaintiff to defendant for stamps to be affixed, and
which were affixed, pursuant to law, to packages of manufactured tobacco intended for exportation. The plaintiff was a
manufacturer of tobacco in Richmond, Va.; and the payments
were made from the years 1869 to 1873, inclusive, first under
the act of July -20, 1868 (15 Stat. 157), and afterward under
the act of June 6, 1872 (17 Stat. 254). By tho act of 1868. an
excise tax of thirty-two cents per pound was imposed on all
manufactured tobacco, except smoking tobacco, on which the
tax was sixteen cents per pound; and penalties and forfeitures
were imposed for removing the manufactured article from the
factory without being put up in proper packages, or without
having the proper stamps affixed thereon and cancelled, to indicate the payment of the tax, and compliance with the law.
From these provisions, tobacco intended for export was excepted; it being provided that such tobacco might be removed
without payment of the tax, and without restriction as to the
size of the packages: but it was enacted that "all tobacco and
snuff intended for export, before being removed from the manufactory, shall have affixed to each package an engraved stamp
indicative of such intention, to be provided and furnished to
the several collectors as in the case of other stamps, and to be
charged to them, and accounted for in the same manner; and,
for the expense attending the providing and affixing such
stamps, twenty-five cents for each package so stamped should
be paid to the collector on making the entry for such transportation." To facilitate the disposal of tobacco intended for exportation, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue was authorized to designate and establish, at any ports of entry in the
United States, export bonded warehouses for the storage of
such tobacco in bond, to be used exclusively for that purpose,
and to be in charge of an internal-revenue storekeeper; in
which warehouses, tobacco intended for exportation might be
kept in bond until actually exported. The act of 1872 reduced
the charge for the stamps to ten cents, and provided for a drawback of the excise-tax, if, after being paid, the owner should
wish to export the article.
'The plaintiff contends that the charge for the stamps required

Oct. 1875.1

PACE v. BURGESS, COLLECTOR.

to be placed on packages of manufactured tobacco intended for
exportation was and is a duty on exports, within the meaning
of that clause in the Constitution of the United States which
declares that "no tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported
from any State." But it is manifest that such was not its character or object. The stamp 'vas intended for no other purpose
than to separate and identify the tobacco which the manufacturer desired to export, and thereby, instead of taxing it, to
relieve it from the taxation to which other tobacco was subjected.
It was a means devised to prevent fraud, and secure the faithful
carrying out of the declared intent with regard to the tobacco
so marked. The payment of twenty-five cents or of ten cents
for the stamp used was no more a tax on the export than was
the fee for clearing the vessel in which it was transported, or
for making out and certifying the manifest of the cargo. It
bore no proportion whatever to the quantity or value of the
package on which it was affixed. These were unlimited, except
by the discretion of the exporter or the convenience of handling.
The large amount paid for such stamps by the plaintiff only
shows that he was carrying on an immense business.
The evidence given to show that the original, cost of the
stamps was never less than the amount paid for them by the
manufacturers is entitled to very slight consideration.
The
cost of the paper, ink, and printing, formed but a small part
of the expense of those arrangements which were necessary in
order to give to the exporter the benefit of exemption from taxation, and at the same time to secure the necessary precautions
against the perpetration of fraud. We know how next to impossible it is to prevent fraudulent practices wherever the
internal revenue is concerned; and the pretext of intending to
export such an article as manufactured tobacco would open the
widest door to such practices, if the greatest strictness and precaution were not observed. The proper fees accruing in the
due administration of the laws and regulations necessary to be
observed to protect the government from imposition and fraud
likely to be committed under pretence of exportation are in
no sense a duty on exportation. They are simply the compensation given for services properly rendered. The rule by which
they are estimated may be an arbitrary one; but an arbitrary

PACE

v.

BURGESS,

COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

rule may be more convenient and less onerous than any other
which can be adopted. The point to guard against is, the imposition of a duty under the pretext of fixing a fee. In the
case under consideration, having due regard to that latitude of
discretion which the legislature is entitled to exercise in the
selection of the means for attainihg a constitutional object, we
cannot say that the charge imposed is excessive, or that it
amounts to an infringement of the constitutional provision
referred to. We cannot say that it is a tax or duty instead of
what it purports to be, a fee or charge, for the employment of
that instrumentality which the circumstances of the case render
necessary for the protection of the government.
One cause of difficulty in the case arises from the use of
stamps as one of the means of segregating and identifying the
property intended to be exported. It is the form in which
many taxes and duties are imposed and liquidated; stamps
being seldom used, except for the purpose of levying a duty or
tax. But we must regard things rather than names. A stamp
may be used, and, in the case before us, we think it is used, for
quite a different purpose from that of imposing a tax or duty:
indeed, it is used for the very contrary purpose, -that of securing exemption from a tax or duty. The stamps required by
recent laws to be affixed to all agreements, documents, and
papers, and to different articles of manufacture, were really and
in truth taxes and duties, or evidences of the payment of taxes
and duties, and were intended as such. The stamp required to
be placed on gold-dust exported from California by a law of
that State was clearly an export tax, as this court decided in
the case of Almy v. The State of California,24 How. 169. In
all such cases, no one could entertain a reasonable doubt on the
subject. The present case is different, and must be judged by
its own circumstances. The sense and reason of the thing
will generally determine the character of every case that can
arise.
The court being of opinion that the charge for the stamps in
this case was not a tax or duty within the meaning of the
clause of the Constitution referred to, it is unnecessary to examine the other questions that were discussed in the argument
Judgment affirmed.
of the cause.

