760

LEAVENWORTH,

ETC., R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

covered by the grant, and has thus encouraged the expenditure
of millions of money in the construction of a public highway,
by which the wilderness has been opened to civilization and
settlement; and then, on the other hand, after the work has
been done and the money expended, has, with another set of
officers and all the machinery of the judiciary, attempted to
render and has succeeded in rendering utterly worthless the
titles it aided to create and put forth upon the world. Such
proceedings are not calculated, in my judgment, to enhance
our ideas of the wisdom with which the law is administered, or
of the justice of the government.
I am of opinion that the decree should be reversed.
NoTE.- 1issourt,Kansas,and Texas Railway Compbny v. United States, appeal
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kansas, is, in its
essential features, the same as the preceding case, and was argued by the same
counsel.
AIR. JUSTICE DAvis delivered the opinion of the court.

The decision in

Leavenworth, Lawrence, and Galveston Railroad Company v. United States, supra,
p. 733, cofitrols this case. Each company claims a grant of land within the
Osage reservation. This case involves substantially the same questions as the
other; with this difference, that the act of July 25, 1866 (14 Stat. 289), under
which the appellant claims, was passed after the amendment had been advised by the senate, and the treaty was beyond its control.
In any aspect of this case, the appellant cannot recover. The amendment
refers only to existing laws, and does not apply to the act of 1866, as it was not
then in force. It is true that the bill, which subsequently became a law, was
pending at the same time as the treaty ; but if the senate intended the amendment to apply not only to existing but to contemplated grants, language appropriate to such a purpose would have been used. This remark applies to
Congress also; for if it meant, notwithstanding the provisions of the treaty, to
grant these lands, words would have been employed to include them, or at
least take them out of the proviso. But the result is the same, whether
the act is to be treated as taking effect before or after the treaty became
operative by the proclamation of the President on the 21st of January, 1867.
If it was in force for all purposes on the day it passed, then the Indian
title even was not extinguished, as the treaty had not been ratified. But if
it be considered as in any sense taking effect after the ratification, then the
claim of the appellant is defeated by the terms of the treaty. These lands,
having been thereby set apart to be surveyed and sold for the benefit of the
Indians, were "otherwise appropriated," as much as they had been before the
treaty was concluded, and were consequently reserved within the meaning of
the excepting clause in the act.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE,
xIR.JUSTICE FIz,
and Mx. JUSTICE STRONG
dissented.

