SMELTZER V.

WrHITE.

[Sup. Ot.

protest that the article was worth the whole amount he asked
for it in the prior negotiations: Remarks of the kind would
not have the effect to qualify the acceptance of the offer and
the unconditional delivery of the article.
Apply that rule to the case before the court, and it is clear
that the protest of the agents did not have the effect to qualify
the voluntary acceptance of the terms proposed by the secretary, and the absolute and unqualified surrender of the securities to the United States, and that there is no error in the
Judgment affirmed.
record.

SMETZFER V. WHIaTE.
1. Warrants issued on the county treasurer subsequently to the year 1860 by
order of the board of supervisors of a county in Iowa, and duly signed by
their clerk, were not, unless sealed with the county seal, genuine and regularly issued, and the treasurer was not authorized to pay them.
2. Where such warrants were sold by a citizen of Iowa to a citizen of another
State, with a guaranty that they were "genuine and regularly issued," Held, that the former thereby undertook that the warrants were not, in a
suit brought against the county, subject to any defence founded upon a
want of legal form in the signatures or seals; and that, the absence of the
county seals being a breach of the warranty, the vendee, without returning
or tendering the warrants, was entitled to recover of the vendor the damages which he had sustained by such breach.
ER-HoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
The plaintiff in error, who is a citizen of Iowa, having sold
to the defendant in error, a citizen of Maryland, certain warrants purporting to be issued by the counties of O'Brien, Buena
Vista, and Clay, in the State of Iowa, guaranteed in writing
that they were "genuine and regularly issued."
Payment of said warrants having been demanded and refused,
suit was brought against the several counties. They demurred,
upon the ground that the warrants were not issued under the
proper seal of the county; and judgment was rendered in their
favor: whereupon this suit was instituted.
The Circuit Court rendered a judgment in favor of the plaintiff below: whereupon Smeltzer sued out this writ of error.
Hr. aaluska Parsons for the plaintiff in error.
Mr.J. Hubleg Ashton and Mr.Nathaniel Wilson, contra.

Oct. 1875.]

SBIELTZER V.

WHITE.

MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

All the assignments of error, but one, are founded upon exceptions taken to the charge of the circuit judge. They are
numerous; and many of them do not confoi-m to the rules of
this court, or to the exceptions which were actually taken.
Without examining them separately, we shall consider the
legal questions they present, so far as they have any bearing
upon the case.
The suit was founded upon express guaranties of the genuineness and regularity of issue of county warrants, - guaranties
which, the plaintiff alleged, had been broken. He had sued the
county to recover the amount of the warrants, and had been
defeated, for the general reasons that the seal of the county
had not been attached to the warrants, and that under the laws
of Iowa, as held by the court, the warrants were invalid unless
they bore the impress of the county seal. In the present suit
against the guarantor, the circuit judge instructed the jury that
the guaranties covered the defect of the want of the county
seal upon the warrants; and that, inasmuch as they did not bear
the seal (the fact having been decided in the suit against the
county), the guaranty was broken, and the defendant was
liable. To this instruction several objections are now urged.
It is said, first, that the warrants were genuine and regularly
issued, even though they did not bear the impress of the county
seal; that the statutes of the State did not require that county
warrants should be sealed with the county seal. This, we
think, is clearly a mistake. Prior to 1860, the county judge
had the management of the business of the county, with the
usual powers and jurisdiction of county commissioners; and the
county funds could be paid out by the treasurer only upon
warrants issued by him. Rev. Stat. of Iowa, 241, 243, 3C 0.
It was made his duty "to audit all claims against the county;
to draw and seal with the county seal all warrants on the treasurer for money to be paid out of the county treasury." Code,
106. The treasurer was authorized to pay only warrants thus
drawn and sealed. The language of the statute was, and it
still is, "The treasurer shall disburse the same (the county
money) on warrants drawn and signed by the county judge,
and sealed with the county seal, and not otherwise." In 1860

SMELTZER V. WHITE.

[SLIP. at.

the powers and duties of the county judge in this respect were
transferred to a county board of supervisors (act of March 22,
1860, Rev., sect. 312 et seg.), and the clerk of the District Court
was constituted their clerk, and required to sign all orders
issued by the board. Now, as the treasurer can pay no orders
or warrants unless they are sealed with the county seal, and as
all warrants were required to be sealed by the county judge
until 1860, when the board of supervisors was charged with his
duties (except that their warrants are required to be signed by
their clerk), it is very evident that no warrant is a genuine
county warrant which is unsealed with the county seal. The
statute expressly requires the board of supervisors, in all cases
where the .powers conferred by the act upon the board had been
before exercised by the county judges, to conduct their proceedings under said powers in the same way and manner as had
been provided by law in such cases for the proceedings of the
county judge. Rev., sect. 325. It is too clear, therefore, for debate, that the genuineness and regularity of issue of county warrants can exist only in cases when the warrants are sealed with
the county seal; and so it has been decided by the Supleme
Court of Iowa substantially, both in Prescottv. Gouser, 34 Iowa,
178, and in Springer v. The County of Clay, 35 id. 243.
It is next contended that the Circuit Court mistook the
extent of the guaranty. The contention is, that a guaranty
that the warrants were "genuine and regularly issued"
meant only that they were not forgeries, that they were
not issued without consideration, and that they were ordered by the proper officers. To this we cannot assent. It
is true, even of a technical guaranty, that its words are to be
construed as strongly against the guarantor as the sense will
admit. -Drummondv. Prestman,12 Wheat. 515. Such, also,
is the English rule. Wood v. Prestner,Law Rep. 2 Ex. 66;
iason v. Pritchard,12 East, 227. So it has been held, that, in
construing a guaranty, it is proper to look at the surrounding
circumstances in order to discover the subject-matter the parties had in view, and thus to ascertain the scope and object of
the guaranty. Sheffield v. Meadows, L. R. 4 C. P. 595. Now,
if this principle be applied to the present case, it is easy to see
what the parties intended. The plaintiff was a citizen of M.ary-

Oct. 1875.]

SMELTZER V. WHITE.

land. He purchased the alleged warrants from the defendant,
a citizen of Iowa. He may be presumed to have had no actual
knowledge of what constituted genuineness and regularity of
issue of Iowa County warrants. What was necessary for him
to be assured of was that the instruments he proposed to purchase were valid and legal claims against the county, - claims
which might be enforced by law. In view of this, the construction contended for by the defendant is utterly inadmissible; and, even without this, the language of the guaranties
admits of no other construction than that which the court
below gave to it. Under the law of the State, there could be
no genuine county warrants regularly issued, imposing a liability
upon the county, which were not duly sealed. The treasurer
was bound to pay those only that were genuine, and issued
according to the requirements of the law.
Again: it is urged on behalf of the defendant that the plaintiff was bound to know, or must be presumed to have known,
that the law required county warrants to be sealed with the
county seal; and that, as the defect was apparent on the face of
the instruments sold and guaranteed, the guaranties must be
construed as not covering a patent defect. It is said it cannot
be admitted the defendant intended to guarantee any thing more
than the existence of facts of which the guaranty had no
knowledge. To this it may be answered, that the absence of a
proper seal upon the instruments guaranteed was not a patent
defect equally within the knowledge of the plaintiff and defendant. Whether the instruments required a seal or not, and what
the seal should be in order to constitute them genuine county
warrants, regularly issued, depended upon the statute laws of
Iowa, of which it may be presumed the plaintiff had no actual
knowledge, and that for this reason he desired a warranty.
Having exacted one, it is a necessary deduction from it that it
-was taken as a protection against his own ignorance of Iowa
law. It was well said on the argument, that the only warranty
that would protect him against loss, in case it should turn out
that the county officers neglected to comply with the law prescribing the mode in which county warrants should be executed
and issued, would be a warranty coextensive with the defences
to which such instruments were subject in suits against tho

SMELTZER V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct,

counties, founded upon non-compliance with the State law on
the part of the county officers. We can have no doubt that the
true meaning of the guaranties is that the guarantor undertook
that the paper was not subject to any defence in suits against
the county founded upon any want of legal form, either in the
signatures or seals; and we think the absence of the proper
seal was a breach of the warranty, rendering the defendant liable for the loss which the plaintiff sustained thereby.
It is next urged by the defendant that the Circuit Court
erred in holding him estopped by the judgments rendered in
the plaintiff's suits against the county. This assignment rests
upon a mistake of fact. The court did not so rule; and, had
such ruling been made, it would have been harmless. The
warrants were in evidence, and they exhibited the fact, not
contradicted, that they were not sealed as the law required.
They were, therefore, not genuine county warrants regularly
issued; and it was the duty of the court so to declare them.
The defendant's contract was broken as soon as it was made;
and the plaintiff was entitled to a verdict, no matter whether
the judgments in the suits against the county were conclusive
or not. It would, therefore, be idle to discuss the question,
whether the court below would have fallen into error had the
jury been instructed that the former judgments were conclusive.
The question is impertinent to this case. We may, however,
simply refer to some decisions which tend strongly to show that
those judgments were in law conclusive upon the defendant,
especially as he had seasonable notice of the defences set up by
the county in the plaintiff's suit on the warrants, and was
required to assist in the prosecution of the claims. Carpenter
v. Pier,30 Vt. 81 ; Lovejoy v. llrurray, 3 Wall. 18 ; Walker v.
_errin, 4 Vt. 529; Chieago v. BRobbins, 4 Wall. 658; Glarce v.
Carrington,7 Cranch, 822; -Drummond v. Preston,12 Wheat.
515.
The fifth assignment is, that the court erred in overruling the
defendant's offer to show that the warrants were regularly
issued for legal claims against the county. The offer, we think,
was correctly overruled. The evidence proposed had no relevancy to the issue in the case. That the warrants were issued
for debts due by the county was of no importance if they were

Oct. 1875.]

SMELTZER V. WHITE.

not genuine, and in the form that the law required, to enable
the holder to set them up as legitimate claims against the
county. What availed it to the plaintiff that the coumty owed
the sums of money mentioned in the warrants, if the warrants
were nullities? His only means of recovering the money was
through the warrants.
The instruction given respecting the measure of damages is
not open to any just exception. It was as follows -"The amount which the plaintiff paid the defendant for the warrants is prina facie evidence of their value at the time; and there
is also the evidence of the defendant that they were sold by him to
the plaintiff for their market value, based on the assumption that
they were valid; and there is no other or different evidence on the
subject of value. I therefore instruct you the plaintiff is entitled
to recover . . . the amount of the consideration which he paid

and the defendant received therefor (for the warrants), with six
per cent interest per annum on such amount."
No other rule for the measure of damages could have been
given to the jury. Baton v. Mfellus, 7 Gray, 578.
It is contended, however, that the court erred in refusing to
charge as requested, that there could be no recovery without a
return of the warrants, and in charging as follows: "It is not necessary thus to recover that the plaintiff should,
before suit was brought, have tendered back the warrants mentioned in said written guaranties. It is enough that they are in
court at the trial; and the court caii order them to be retained, and,:
on payment of the judgment rendered herein, to be delivered to the
defendant."
This instruction was in strict accordance with all the wellconsidered decisions. In case of a breach of warranty, the
person to whom the warranty has been given may sue without
a return of the goods. He is not obliged to rescind the sale.
Thus the law is stated by Kent, 4 Com. 480. In Man. Co. v.
Gardner, 10 Cash. 83, the Supreme Court of Massachusetts
ruled that a vendee may sue for a breach of warranty, without returning the goods; and such is the rule in England.
.Fielderv. Starkin, 1 H. BI. 17; _Patesaall v. Tranter, 3 Ad.
& Ell. 108. It is true, that, when a vendee seeks to rescind

SMELTZER V. WHITE.

[Sup. at.

the contract of sale, he must return the property, or tender
it; but when he relies upon an express warranty, and sues
upon it, he may recover the damages sustained by its breach
without returning or tendering the property. This we understand to be the universal rule. There is, then, no just ground
of complaint that the circuit judge charged as he did upon
this subject, and much less that he added it was enough that
the warrants were in court, and could be impounded for delivery
to the defendant. If any one could complain of this last
declaration, it was the plaintiff, and not the defendant.
What we have said sufficiently disposes of all the assignments of error, except the eleventh and twelfth. The eleventh
is to the refusal of the court to charge as requested by the
defendant's third prayer ; which was, that "if the jury should
find from the evidence that the warrants were regularly issued
by order of the several boards of supervisors directing the same,
for a valid and subsisting indebtedness by said counties respectively, for the several amounts thereof, and that the plaintiff has not at any time offered to return them, he could only
recover the difference between their value without the county
seal and their value with said seal at the time of the several
sales, and interest." The fourth instruction asked for, but
refused, was, "that the several assignments of the warrants
carried with them the right to sue and recover the several
demands for which they were issued; that if the plaintiff has
retained the warrants, without any offer to return them, until
the right of action upon the original indebtedness is barred
by the Statute of Limitations, and the right of the holder to affix
the county seal to the warrant is also barred by the statute,
the jury should find for the defendants."
Of these it may be remarked, in addition to what we have
said of the supposed obligation of the plaintiff to return the
warrants before bringing his suit on the warranties, that there
was no evidence whatever that the unsealed warrants had any
value. The fair presumption is, that they had none, since they
were not drawn as the law required, and since the county
treasurer had no authority to pay them. It would, therefore,
have been error had the court submitted to the jury to find that
they had a value, and to deduct it from what their value would
have been had they been genuine warrants regularly issued.

Oct. 1875.]

HOBSON ET AL. v. LOnD.

The plaintiff, as we have seen, was a citizen of Maryland.
Buying, as he supposed, Iowa County warrants, and ignorant
of their necessary form, he took from the seller an engagement
that the subjects of his purchase were such warrants, genuine
and regularly issued. He had a right to rest upon that engagement. It was not his duty to inquire farther. Assuming that
it was possible, when he took the warrants, to procure the
impress of the county seal upon them, he was under no obliga-'
tion to procure it; and there is no evidence that he discovered
that the instruments were not what the defendant warranted
them to be until May 14, 1870, when, in his suit against the
counties, they were adjudged void. Then it was too late to
obtain, if they ever could have been obtained, regular warrants, or to obtain the impress of the county seal upon those he
held. The right to require the affixing of the seal ceased,
under the statutes of Iowa, at the expiration of three years
from the issue of the warrants. That period had expired
before 1870. The right of action on the original claims against
the counties was barred at the end of five years from the time
it accrued, and all the warrants were dated more than five
years before they were adjudged void. The right of action on
the original claims against the counties, even if it did pass to
the plaintiff by the assignments of the unsealed warrants, was
gone, therefore, when he discovered that the defendant's guaranty was broken; and consequently the defendant suffered no
loss by not being remitted to the possession of the warrants
then or subsequently. Before that time, there can be no pretence that the plaintiff should have returned them. From this
it follows very plainly, that the third and fourth requests to the
Circuit Court could not have been properly granted.
Judgment affirmed.

HOBSON

ET AL. v.

LORD.

A. vessel bound to the United States, having loaded at one of the guano
islands where clearances were not granted, was on her way to Callao forone, when she was badly injured by a collision with another vessel. Proceeding in distress to that, the nearest port, she came to anchor at the anchorage of vessels calling at that port for clearances. A survey revealed the fact

