Oct. 1875.]

CARROL ET AL.

v.

GREEN ET AL.

their part to be done and performed as to enable them to demand from the city the right of way and grounds; that in the
exercise of this right they had made a proposition to the city
to accept the 525,000 of bonds so voted, in lieu of said grounds
and right of way, and in full satisfaction and discharge of
all the obligation resting on the city in relation thereto; and
that, after full and careful consideration, it was deemed advisable to accept the proposition, and issue to the company the
bonds.
With such a preamble, the ordinance directed the mayor
and city-clerk to execute and deliver to the railroad company
bonds to the amount of $25,000 for the avowed purpose of discharging the city's obligation.
The bonds were accordingly issued, and registered in the
office of the auditor of the State, who certified upon each that
it had been regularly and legally issued, that the signature to
it was genuine, and that it had been duly registered in accordance with a statute of the State. The plaintiff then purchased
the bonds and coupons before their maturity, without any
actual knowledge of the defences set up against them. Indeed,
no defence is set up except an alleged want of authority for
their issue, - a defence which, in view of the legislation of the
State and of the city ordinances, has, in our opinion, no foundation. Certainly it has none, unless a power conferred upon a
municipality is different from what the same power would be
when possessed by another holder; a doctrine which no one will
venture to assert. It follows, that, on the facts found by the
Circuit Court, the judgment should have been given for the
plaintiff.
Judgment reversed, and cause remandedfor a new trial.

CAItnOL ET AL. v. GREEN ET AL.
The Exchange Bank of Columbia, S. C., failed in February, 1865. In June,
1872, its creditors filed a bill in equity to enforce their claims against the
stovkholders under a clause of the charter, which, "upon the failure of the
bank," rendered them individually liable for any sum not exceeding double
the value of their respective shares. Thedefence set up the Statute of

CARROL ET AL. V.

GREEN ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

Limitations of 1712, which requires actions upon the case, and actions of
debt, grounded upon any contract without specialty, to be brought within four
years. Held, that as the liability of the stockholders arose from their acceptance of the act creating the corporation, and their implied promises to
fulfil its requirements, the proper remedy was an action upon the case;
and that, as the statute barred such an action at law, it was also a good
defcnce in equity.

APJEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
Mr.James Lowndes for the appellant.
1r. D. T. Corbin, contra.

MR. JUSTICE SwAr=m delivered the opinion of the court.
A number of important questions arising in this case have been
fully argued, which we shall pass by without remark. We have
not examined any of them exhaustively, and have not found it
necessary to do so. Our judgment will be placed upon the
defence of the Statute of Limitations, and our opinion will be
confined to that subject.
The appellees filed this bill, and the subpcenas were issued in
the court below, on the 18th of June, 1872. The bill seeks to
make the appellants individually liable as stockholders of the
Exchange Bank of Columbia, which was incorporated by an act
of the legislature of South Carolina of the 16th of December,
1852. It is alleged in the bill, that, by this act, the Exchange
Bank "was endowed with the same rights hnd privileges, and
was made subject to the same duties, liabilities, obligations, and
restrictions, provided for the said Planters' and Mechanics'
Bank;" and that, by the fourth section of the act incorporating
the last-named bank, it was declared, "that, in case of the failure
of said bank, each stockholder, copartnership, or body politic,
having a share in such bank at the time of such failure, or who
shall have been interested therein at any time within twelve
months previous to such failure, shall be liable and held bound,
individually, for any sum not exceeding twice the amount of
his, her, or their share or shares."
It is conceded for the purposes of this opinion that the provision, quoted from the act of 1852, applies to the stockholders
of the Exchange Bank as well as to the bank itself.
The master found, and the court below affirmed the finding

Oct. 1875.]

CARROL ET AL.

v.

GREEN ET AL.

as correct, that the Exchange Bank failed in the month of
February, 1865, and never resumed business after that
time.
The defendants severally pet forth in their answers "that the
cause of action stated in the bill did not accrue within four
years before the exhibiting of said bill." The complainants
replied, and took issue. It appears that the bank suspended
specie payment several years before its failure at the time specified by the master; and some stress is laid upon this fact by the
counsel for the appellants in discussing the case in this aspect.
We have preferred to adopt the finding of the master, because it
is the view most favorable to the appellees, and because the proof
as to that period brings the case clearly within the terms of the
statute; while the proof is further that the bank paid specie
until its suspension was legalized, and that, if it had been put
in liquidation on the 1st of February, 1865, it could then have
met all its liabilities, and redeemed its outstanding bills in
specie or its equivalent. Its subsequent losses arose from the
war. According to the statute, the liability of "each stockholder" arose upon "the failure of the bank." The liability
gave at once the right to sue; and, by necessary consequence,
the period of limitation began at the same time. From the
last of February, 1865, four years expired on the 1st of March,
1869. But there are certain interruptions of the running of
the statute to be taken into account. An act of the legislature
of the State, of the 21st December, 1861, suspended the
Statute of Limitations until the close of, the first session of the
next general assembly. This suspension was continued by
successive acts. The last one was passed on the 22d of December, 1865, and prolonged the suspension " until the adjournment of the next regular session of the general assembly."
The Supreme Court of the State held that these acts arrested
the effect of the Statute of Limitations from Dec. 21, 1861,
until December, 1866. Wardlow v. Buzzard, 15 Rich. 158.
It does not appear in the case at what time in December,
1866, the general assembly adjourned. From December, 1866,
the statute was in full force. Four years from that time
,expired in December, 1870. The war in South Carolina ended
,on the 2d of April, 1866. The Protector,12 Wall. 701.

CARROL ET AL. V.

GREEN ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

The Circuit Court of the United States for South Carolina
was open for business on and after the 12th of June, 1866.
In any view of the facts that can be taken, more than four
years elapsed after the statute began to run before this suit was
instituted.
The Statute of Limitations of South Carolina in force when
this cause of action accrued, and under which the case must be
decided, was that of 1712. Angel on Lim., App. p. 98.
The sixth section declares, among other things, "that . . .
all actions of account and upon the case (other than such
accounts as concern the trade of merchandise), . . . all actions
of debt grounded upon any lending or contract without specialty,
all actions for arrearages of rent reserved by indenture, all
actions of covenant . . . which shall be brought at any time
after the ratification of this act, shall be commenced and sued
within the time of limitation hereafter expressed, and not
after; that is to say, the said actions upon the case other than
for slanders, and the said actions for accounts, . . . and the said
actions for . . . debt, . . . within three years next after the
ratification of this act, or within four years next after the cause
of such actions or suits, and not after." The statute contains no
exception as to actions on the case, save that for slander. All
others are expressly barred at the expiration of the time named.
The section of the act of 1852 above quoted, which is said to
create the individual liability here in question, is silent as to
who shall sue. The suit was, therefore, necessarily to be brought
by and for the benefit of the parties injured. 2 Inst. 650;
Com. Dig. Debt, A, 1.
Individual liability is repugnant to the law of corporations,
and qualifies in this case an exemption which would otherwise
exist. Stockholders in such cases are liable according to the
plain meaning of the terms employed by the legislature, and
not otherwise. The section is silent as to a preference to any
class of creditors. All, therefore, in this case, stood upon a
footing of equality, and were entitled to share alike in the proceeds of the litigation. The remedy against the stockholders
was necessarily in equity. Pollardv. Blailey, 20 Wall. 521.
They were severally compellable to contribute according to
the amount of the stock they respectively held, and the liabili-

Oct. 1875.]

CARROL ET AL. V. GREEN ET AL.

ties of the bank to be met, after exhausting its means, the
maximum of the liability of each stockholder not to exceed in
any event twice the amount of his stock. Iglehart v. The Bank
of Circieville & Others, 6 McLean, 568.
It is obvious from this statement, that, if there had been a
suit at law against the stockholders, debt could not have been
maintained.
The action of debt lies on a statute where it is brought for a
sum certain, or where the sum is capable of being readily
reduced to a certainty. It is not sustainable for unliquidated
damages. 1 Oh. P1. 108, 113; Stockwell v. United States, 13
Wall. 542.
"The action of debt is in legal contemplation for the recovery of a debt eo nondne and in numero." "Case, now usually
called assumpsit," is founded on a contract express or implied.
1 Ch. 99; 3[eteaf v. Bobinson, 2 McLean, 364.
Let us apply these tests to the case in band. Certainly the
amount sought to be recovered was not certain, and could not
readily be reduced to certainty; and there was clearly an implied promise on the part of the stockholders.
The legislature created the corporation, and prescribed cer
tain terms to which the stockholders should be subjected. This
was an offer on the part of the State. It could be accepted or
declined. There was no constraint. By taking the stock, the
terms were acceded to, the contract became complete, and the
stockholders were bound accordingly. The same result followed which would have ensued under the like circumstances
between individuals. The assent thus given and the promise
implied are of the.essence of the liability sought to be enforced
in this proceeding. If a remedy at law were necessary, clearly
it must have been case.
Case is a generic term, which embraces many different species
of actions. "There are two, however, of more f-equent use
than any other form of action whatever: these are assumpsit
and trover." Steph. Plead. 18.
"The more legal denomination of the action of assumpsit is
trespass on the case upon promises." 3 Woodison's Lect. 168.
This form of action originated, like many others, under the
Stat. of Westm. 2, 13 Edw. I., c. 24, sect. 2. Its estabVOL. xx.
33

CARRoL ET AL. V. GREEN ET AL.

[Sup. Or.

lishment was strenuously resisted through several reigns.
2 Reeves's Hist., 394, 507, 608. It was sustained, upon full
consideration, in Slade's Case, 4 Coke, 92, which was decided
in 44 Elizabeth. When the statute of South Carolina of 1712,
here in question, was enacted, the term case was as well understood to embrace assumpsit as any thing else in the law of procedure to which it'is now held to apply.
Blackstone thought that one of the most important amend.
ments of the law during the century in which he lived was
effected "by extending the equitable writ of trespass on the
case, according to its primitive institution by King Edward
the First, to almost every instance of injustice not remedied by
any other process." 4 Com. 442.
But if debt were the proper form of action if this were a suit
at law, the result must be the same. The act bars "all actions
of debt" grounded upon any lending or contract without spedialtil; also "after the lapse of four years." The contract
here was of the class last designated. The statute was only
inducement. The implied promise of the stockholders to fulfil
its requirements was the agreement on their part, and it was
without specialty.
Where a deed-poll was executed by a lessor, and the lessee
entered and enjoyed the premises, it was held that he was liable
according to the terms of the lease, but that he was suable only
in assumpsit. Goodwin v. Gilbert, 9 Mass. 484; Newell v. Hill,
2 Met. 180.
So where one conveys land by deed, pursuant to a parol
agreement, the law implies a promise by the grantee to pay
the purchase-money, and it may be recovered; but the action
must be in case, and not debt on the specialty. Butler v. Lee,
11 Ala. 885 ; lBowen v. Bell, 20 Johns. 338 ;. ilkinson v. Scott,
17 Mass. 249.
In Lindsay v. Hyatt, 4 Ed. Ch. 104, the act of incorporation
declared that the directors and stockholders might be sued for
the debts of the corporation, either at law or in equity, as if they
-were joint debtors or copartners. The Vice-Chancellor said,
"It appears to me that the six years within which actions on
simple contract indebtedness must be brought does apply."
Speaking of a suit at law, he said, "In such an action, the

Oct. 1875.]

OARROL ET AL. V. Gnm

ET AL.

declaration must be in case founded on the statute. . . . The
form of the action and the nature of the liability to be enforced
fall within the provisions of the statute which takes away the
right to sue after six years."
Corning v. Horner & ._eCullough, 1 Comst. 58, was a suit
at law against stockholders upon a similar statute, and involving the same statute of limitations. It was said that the action
must "necessarily be an action on the case at common law
upon the liability of the stockholders for the debt of the company." The same conclusion was reached, as to the time when
such actions were barred, as in Lindsay v. H7yatt.
Baker v. The Atlas Bank, 9 Met. 182, was a bill in equity
founded upon a statute making the stockholders liable in the
cases specified. The defendants relied upon a statute of limitations which declared that "all actions founded upon any
contract or liability not under seal shall be commenced within
six years next after the cause of action shall accrue, and not
afterwards." It was held that the statute applied in equity as
well as at law, and that, after the lapse of six years, the bar was
complete.
The Commonwealth v. The Cochituate Bank, 8 Allen, 42, was
also a case in equity involving a statute creating a liability on
the part of the stockholders of the bank, and the same Statute
of Limitations. The same conclusions were reached by the
court as in the preceding case.
It is insisted by the learned counsel for the appellees that
while the Limitation Act of 1712 provided that "actions of
debt upon any lending or contract, without specialty," should
be brought within four years, it did not limit actions of debt
upon specialties; and that the liability here in question, being
created by a statute, is to be regarded as falling within the
latter class.
It is said that an obligation to pay money, arising under
a statute, is a debt by specialty. In support of this point, Bullard v. Bell, 1 Mas. 243, has been pressed upon our attention.
Fully to examine that case would unnecessarily extend this
opinion. It was cited in Baker v. The Atlas Banc and in
Corning v. 111c Cullough without effect. We think it is distinguishable from the case in hand in several material points. If

516

FRANLiN

FiRE INs. Co. V. VAUGHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

it be in conflict with the cases to which we have referred in
this connection, we think the results in the latter were con
trolled by the better reason. '
If a claim like that of the appellees sued at law would have
been barred at law, their claim is barred in equity. This
proposition is too clear to require argument or authorities to
support it.
Decree reversed, with directions to dismiss the bill.

FAxxim Fn-E IxSURANCE C0mrANY v. VAuGHAN.
A. having bought goods at an auction-store, and made part payment therefor,
and having the disposal of them, permitted them to remain there for sale by
and under his direction. He agreed that the first proceeds of the sale, to the
amount of $3,150, should be paid to the vendor; and that the auctioneers, if
they advanced money upon the goods, should retain the possession and control
thereof as security. No advance was made. A. procured an insurance upon
the goods for $2,500, representing that no other person was interested therein,
that they were unincumbered; and that lie estimated their value to be .$12,000.
Part of the goods were sold; and, the remainder having been destroyed by
fire, A. brought suit against the company for the amount of the policy. The
company set up by way of defence, that his statement as to the freedom of the
goods from incumbrance was untrue; that he, knowing of its rule not to insure
goods at more than three-fourths of their value, had overvalued them; and
that they were, in fact, worth but $6,000. The jury found that the value of
the goods destroyed was $7,204. Held, that the facts of the case do not justify the claim that the property was incumbered, or that the title of the insured
therein was not absolute. Held further, that, as nothing appeared at the trial
to show that the estimate of the value of the goods by A. was not an honest
one, the charge of the court below, that such valuation, if made in good faith,
and without intention to mislead or defraud the company, would not defeat
a recovery, was without error.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas.
Mr. U. M. Bose for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Albert Pike, contra.
JusTICE HtNT delivered the opinion of the court.
In seeking to recover the amount insured upon his goods

MR.

