676

CENTRAL RAILROAD, ETC.,

Co. v.

GEORGIA.

[Sup. Ct.

their place, and possess the powers, rights, and privileges they
had severally enjoyed in the portions of the road which bad
previously belonged to them, and be subject to the liabilities
that rested upon them during their separate existence. A
similar decision was made in The -DelawareRailroad Tax Case,
18 Wall. 206. So in Tomlinson v. Branch,15 id. 460, the same
doctrine was maintained. Two railroad companies, the one
exempt from taxation and the other not exempt, were authorized to unite, so that the latter should merge into the former;
and the statute declared that thereafter all the rights, privileges, and property of the latter should be vested in the former,
and that the former should be liable for all the debts and contracts of the latter. Under the statute, the union was consummated: and the question arose, whether the railroad property
and works which had belonged to the company not exempt
from taxation were exempt under the charter of the other after
the union; and this court held that they were not. The case is
hardly to be distinguished from the present, and it leads directly
to the conclusion that the property and franchises formerly
belonging to the Macon and Western Railroad Company (now
converted into $2,500,000 of the stock of the Central Railroad
and Banking Company) has no well-founded claim to exemption from such taxation as it is now argued the legislature is
forbidden by the Federal Constitution to impose. It is not
protected by any contract -with the State. That property, by
the articles of union between the two companies, sanctioned by
the legislature, amounts to one-third of the entire property of the
company which survived the union, and to that extent, to that
extent only, is it taxable at any greater rate than was stipulated
in the charter of the Central Railroad and Banking Company
granted in 1835.
!he judgment of the Supreme Court must, therefore, be reversed,
and the record be remitted, with instructions to reverse the
order of the Superior Court, and directfurtherproceedings
in accordance with this opinion.
NoTE.- South-western Railroad Company v. Georgia, error to the Supreme
Court of the State of Georgia, was argued by the counsel who appeared in the
preceding case.
MR. JUsrc STRONG delivered the opinion of the court. What we have sail
iA Central Railroad 4- Barinq,Company v. Georgia, is applicable, in its largest ex-

Oct. 1875.]

BRANCH ET AL. V. CITY OF CHARLESTON ET AL.

677

tent, to the present case. It appears from the record that the South-western Railroad Company, chartered in 1845, with an exemption from taxation beyond onehalf of one per cent of its annual net income, was united with the Muscogee
Railroad Company, a company entitled by its charter to a similar exemption.
Th union was effected under an act of the legislature, approved March 4, 1856,
the effect of which was to extinguish the Muscogee Company by its merger in the
South-western. No new corporation was created by the union of the two companies; but the powers of the South-western were enlarged, and an the rights,
privileges, and property of the Muscogee Railroad Company became the rights
and prop..rty of the South-western. The exemption from taxation, which both
the companies enjoyed under their original charters, cannot, therefore, be withdrawn by the legislature, and it is unaffected by the tax-laws of 1874.
The judgment of the Supreme Court is reversed, and the record is remitted, with instructionsto reverse the order of the Superior Court.

BRA1wCH ET AL. V. CITY OF CHIARLESTON ET AL.
1. In Tomlinson v. Branch, 15 Wall. 460, and City of Charleston v. Branch, id. 470,
this court held that the respective roads and property of the two companies,
which had become consolidated in the hands of the South Carolina Railroad
Company, retained their original status towards the public and the State the
same as if the consolidation had not taken place; that the entire line of
road between Branchville and Charleston was subject to taxation; and that
"primafacde the railroad terminus and dgp6t in Charleston and the property
accessory thereto belong to the South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company portion of the joint property."
2. The holding, that, if it could be fairly shown that any of that company's property in Charleston was acquired by the South Carolina Railroad Company
for the accommodation of the business belonging to its original roads, or
for the joint accommodation of the entire system of roads under its control,
such property would, pro tanto and in fair proportion, be exempt from taxation, was intended to meet the case of such property as the present company might have acquired in Charleston, either separately or in conjunction
with the old company, had no consolidation taken place, and had the line
between Branchville and Charleston used by both remained the property of
the old company.
S. In carrying out that principle, any repairs or improvements made on the old
line or the property of the old company would become a part thereof, and
be subject to taxation. An item, therefore, for replacing tracks and sidetracks within the city limits, as it fairly belongs to the old road, should have
been taxed in toto and not pro tanto.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
In City of Charleston v. Branch, 15 Wall, 470, the decree of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of South

