(Pt. 1875.]

CENTRAL RATILROAD, ETC.,

Co. v.

GEORGIA.

665

troduced in the case just decided, together with the patent, and maintained the
same propositions as those which they submitted in that case. Opposed to that
theory, the defendant claimed, and still claims, that he is entitled, by purchase and
conveyance, to be regarded as the legal representative of the original donee; and
lie refers to the same muniments of title, with others introduced by him, to show
the justice and validity of his claim.
Hearing was had in the court below, and the court rendered judgment for the
defendant. Appended to the agreed statement of facts are certain conclusions
of law adopted by the Circuit Court ; but it is not deemed necessary to reproduce
those conclusions, as they are substantially the same as those exhibited in the
case already decided.
Dissatisfied with the judgment, the plaintiffs removed the cause into this
court. Since the cause was removed here, the parties have been fully heard;
and, in the judgment of this court, there is no error in the record. Our reasons
for the conclusion are stated in the other case, and will not be repeated, as the
facts and legal questions presented for decision are substantially the same in
Judgment affirmed.
both cases.

CENTRAL RAILROAD Aim BA-nG CO m

arr v. GEORGIA.

1. The consolidation of two companies does not necessarily work a dissolution
of both, and the creation of a new corporation. Whether such be its effect,
depends upon the legislative intent manifested in the statute under which
the consolidation takes place.
2. An act of the legislature authorized two railroad companies (C. and M.) to
unite and consolidate their stocks, and all their rights, privileges, immunities, property, and franchises under the name and charter of C., in such
manner that each owner of shares of the stock of M. should be entitled to
receive an equal number of the shares of the stock of time consolidated companies. The act also declared that all contracts of both companies should
be assumed by and be binding upon C., that its capital should not exceed
their aggregate capital, and that all their benefits and rights should accrue
to it. It was further enacted, that, upon the union and consolidation, each
stockholder of M. should be entitled to receive a certificate for a like number of shares of the stock of C., upon his surrender of his certificate of stock
Held, that consolidation under this act was not a surrender of the
in I.
existing charters of the two companies, and that it did not work the extinction of C., nor the creation of a new company. Held, further, that the consolidated company continued to possess all the rights and immunities which
were conferred upon each company by its original charter.
38. Exemption from liability to any greater tax than one-half of one per centum
of its net annual income having been conferred upon C. by its charter, Held, that it is not in the power of the legislature to impose an increased tax
after the consolidation was effected. Held, further, that inasmuch as M.
possessed no such immunity under its charter, the power of the legislature
to tax its franchises, property, and income, remained unimpaired after its
consolidation with C.

666

CENTRAL RAILROAD, ETC.,

CO. v.

GEORGIA.

[Sup. Ct.

4. The purpose and effect of the consolidating act were to provide for a merger
of Il. into C., and to vest in the latter the rights and immunities of the
former, not to enlarge them. Therefore, M. having held its franchises
and property subject to taxation, C., succeeding to the ownership, held
them alike subject.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia.
The case was argued by Hr. Jeremiah 8. Black, Mr.-.David
Dudley Field, and .lfIr. A. B. Lawton, for the plaintiff in error,
and by Hr. N. J. Hfammond, Attorney-General of the State of
GTorgia, and Hr.Bobert Toombs, for the defendant in error.
ERR R

JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
By an act of the legislature of Georgia, enacted in 1883, a
charter, unlimited in duration, was granted to "The Central
Railroad and Canal Company of Georgia," with power to
make, construct, and maintain a canal or railroad from the
city-of Savannah to the city of Macon. The seventh section
was as follows: -

MI.

"The said canal or railway, and the appurtenances of the same,
shall not be subjected to be taxed higher than a half per cent
upon its annual net income."
In 1835, by an amendment to the charter, the name of the
company was changed to "The Central Railroad and Banking
Company of Georgia;" its capital stock was declared to consist of $3,000,000: and the eighteenth section of the amendment
enacted that "the said railroad, and the appurtenances of the
same, shall not be subjected to be taxed higher than one-half
of one per centum upon its annual net income; and no municipal or other corporation shall have the power to tax said
company, but may tax any property, real or personal, of the
said company, within the jurisdiction of said corporation, in
the ratio of taxation of like property." Under this latter act
the company was organized in 1836, and proceeded to build the
railroad. By subsequent enactments, the capital stock was
increased to $5,000,000, and the company was authorized to
build its road into Macon.
In 1847 the legislature of the State, by a statute approved
Dec. 27, 1847, incorporated "The Macon and Western Railroad
Company," with power to build a railroad from Macon to At.

Oct. 1875.]

CENTRAL RATLROAD, Emc.,

Co. v.

GEORGIA.

667

lanta. The charter contained no exemption from taxation, and
affixed no limits to it. An amendment, however, was made to
the charter by an act approved Feb. 9, 1869, and assented to
by the company, by -which authority was given to increase the
capital stock to $2,500,000; and the chartered rights of the
company were continued during the term of thirty years from
its passage. The amending act contained the following
proviso:

-

"1Provided,nevertheless, that such additional stock as may be
issued, as well as the present stock of said company, shall hereafter
pay the same annual tax to the State as the other railroad companies of this State now do; viz., one-half of one per cent on the
amount of the net income."
Under this charter the railroad was constructed to Atlanta.
Thus the western terminus of the Central Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia, and the eastern terminus of the
Macon and Western Railroad, were both fixed at Macon.
On the twenty-fourth day of Aug1st, 1872, the. legislature
passed an act authorizing the union and consolidation of the
two railroad companies, under the name and charter of the
first named, "The Central Railroad and Banking Company of
Georgia." As the true meaning and effect of this act is the
basis of all the questions presented by the case, we quote the
first section entire: "Be it enacted by the general assembly of the State of Georgia,
that the Macon and Western Railroad Company, and the Central
Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia, be, and they are hereby,
authorized and empowered to unite and consolidate the stocks of
the said two companies, and all the rights, privileges, immunities,
property, and franchises belonging or attaching to said companies,
under the name and charter of the said ' The Central Railroad and
Banking Company of Georgia,' in such manner that each and every
owner and holder of shares of the capital stock of the Macon and
Western Railroad Company shall be entitled to and receive an
equal number of shares of the capital stock of the consolidated
companies: Provided,that nothing herein contained shall relieve
or discharge either of said companies from any contract heretofore
entered into, but that all such contracts shall be assumed by, and
be binding on, the Central Railroad and Banking Company of

668

CENTRAL RAILROAD, Lrc., Co. v. GEORGIA.

[Sup. Ct-

Georgia, and all benefits and rights under the same shall accrue to,
and vest in, the said last-mentioned company: And provided further,
that, upon such union and consolidation, the capital stock of the
Central Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia shall not exceed
the amount of the authorized capital thereof, and the present authorized capital of the Macon and Western Railroad Company
added thereto."
The second section enacted, that the union and consolidation
provided for should not take place until at least two-thirds of
the stockholders of each company assented thereto.
By the third section it was enacted, that when it should be
ascertained, in the manner provided, that the assent required
in the second section had been given, it should be the duty of
the board of directors of each company to complete said union
and consolidation, and to certify the same under the corporate
seals of said companies, to the governor of the State, to be
filed in the office of the Secretary of State.
The fourth section is as follows:-"Be it further enacted, that upon the union and consolidation
herein provided for, each stockholder in the Macon and Western
Railroad Company shall be entitled to receive a certificate of stock
as a shareholder in the Central Railroad and Banking Company of
Georgia for a like number of shares, upon the surrender of his certificate of stock in the former company, which new certificate shall
entitle the holder thereof to the same rights, privileges, and benefits
as attach to the holders of stock now held by the shareholders in
said companies, or either of them."
Under the provisions of this act, and in the manner prescribed, the two companies united, the stock of the Central
Company being at the time $5,000,000, and that of the Macon
and Western being $2,500,000.
Such was the legal status of the Central Railroad and Banking Company on the twenty-eighth day of February, 1874,
when the legislature passed an act entitled "An Act to amend
the tax-laws of the State so far as the same relate to railroad
companies, and to define the liabilities of such companies to
taxation, and to repeal so much of the charters of such companies, respectively, as may conflict with the provisions of this
act." The act required from each company an annual return

Oct. 1875.]

CETRAL RAILROAD, ETC.,

Co. v.

GEORGIA.

669

to the comptroller-general of the value of its property, withoat
deducting indebtedness, each class or species of property to be
separately named and valued, to be taxed as other property
of the people of the State. It also required the railroad
companies to pay the taxes assessed upon them, and it repealed
conflicting laws. Pursuant to this act of 1874, the comptrollergeneral assessed a tax of $46,034.87 against the Central Rail.
road and Banking Company, and issued an execution to collect
it. The company then paid the tax of one-half of one per cent
required by the prior law, and instituted proceedings in the
mode provided by the statute to resist the exaction of the
remainder of the tax assessed, on the ground that by its charter
it was not subject to be taxed higher than one-half of one per
centum of its annual net income, and that the tax-law of 1874
impaired the obligation of its contract with the State. Having
failed in the State courts, the case has been brought here for
review.
It is not denied that, by the provisions of the charter granted
in 1833, amended in 1835, and accepted by the Central Railroad and Banking Company, a contract was made that the
company should not be taxed higher than one-half of one per
cent upon its net income. Nor is it denied that the protection
thus promised was as perpetual as the existence of the company
itself. But it is contended on behalf of the State that the
charter granted in 1833, and amended in 1835, was surrendered
by the union and consolidation of the company under the act
of 1872 with the Macon and Western Railroad Company; that
the company is now eisting under a charter granted by the
latter act, a charter which is subject to repeal or modification
at the will of the legislature; and, therefore, that the act of
1874, which imposes a more onerous tax than one-half of one
per cent on the net income, is a violation of no contract, but
that it is a legitimate exercise of legislative authority.
If it could be admitted, as contended by the State, that the
charter granted in 1835 is no longer in existence, if in fact and
in law it was surrendered in 1872, and if the "Central Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia" is a new corporation,
created when it united with the Macon and Western Railroad
Company, the consequences claimed by the State might, and

670

CENTRAL RAILROAD, ETC.,

Co. v.

GEORGIA.

[Sup. Ct.

probably would, follow. The Code of Georgia, which went
into operation Jan. 1, 1863, has the following provisions:SECT. 1682. "In all cases of private charters hereafter granted,
the State reserves the right to withdraw the franchise, unless
such right is expressly negatived in the charter."
SECT. 1683. "Private corporations heretofore created, without the reservation of the right of dissolution, and where individual rights have become vested, are not subject to dissolution
at the will of the State."

Chartered rights granted subsequent to the Code may,
therefore, be withdrawn. It is equally certain that those
granted before Jan. 1, 1863, cannot be impaired by any legislative act.
Hence, it is of vital importance to this case to examine the
effect of the union of the two companies, under what is called
"the consolidation act of the legislature," of Aug. 24,1872. Did
the act contemplate a surrender of its charter by the Central
Railroad and Banking Company, and the grant to it of a new
charter, or a re-grant of the old? It may be that the consolidation of two corporations, or amalgamation, as it is called in
England, if full and complete, may work a dissolution of them
both, and its effect may be the creation of a new corporation.
Whether such be the effect or not must depend upon the statate under which the consolidation takes place, and of the
intention therein manifested. If, in the statute, there be no
words of grant of corporate powers, it is difficult to see how a
new corporation is created. If it is, it-must be by implication;
and it is an unbending rule that a grant of corporate existence
is never implied. In the construction of a.statute, every presumption is against it. True it is that in .ThcMahan v. lMorrison, 16 Ind. 172, where three corporations had consolidated
under an act of the legislature, authorizing them to merge and
consolidate their stock "adid make onejoint company," it was said
that the effect of the act and the terms of consolidation under
it was a dissolution of the three corporations, and at the same
instant the creation of a new corporation with property, liabilities, and stockholders derived from those then passing out of
existence. And this language was quoted approvingly by this

Oct. 1875.]

CENTRAL RAILROAD, ETC.,

CO. v.

GEORGIA.

671

court in Clearwater v. iIMeredith, 1 Wall. 40. But in neither
case was an assertion of this doctrine necessary to the decision
made. The first was a suit against the consolidated company on
a claim against one of the old companies, and the other was a
suit by a party who had consented that the stock of a railroad
company should be merged and consolidated with that of another
company, against one who had guaranteed that the stock should
be worth a certain price at a fixed time. After having consented that the stock thus guaranteed should be consolidated
with other stock, he was not permitted to recover. And, indeed,
we find no case decided in this country where the question di.
rectly arose, or was necessarily determined. There are numerous cases where a consolidated company has been held liable for
the debts of the old companies, and where it has been held to
possess the rights of the old companies; but this does not necessarily imply a surrender of all the old charters. So there are
cases where it has been held that a consolidation cannot be
consummated against the consent of a stockholder in one of
the companies unless his stock is purchased. This, however,
may be doubted as applicable to all cases; but, if universally
true, it leaves open the question, whether the consolidation is the
creation of a new company. Lanm*an v. The .Lebanon Valley
.R. _?. Co., 30 Penn. 46, was a bill by a stockholder for an
injunction against consolidation; and all that was decided was,
that his interest must be protected before consolidation could
take place. We are not called upon, however, now to determine whether a consolidation, effected under a statute making
no express grant of new corporate existence, may not, in some
cases, work a dissolution of the existing corporations, and at the
same time the creation of a new company; for, in the present
case, we think the act of 1872 plainly contemplated no such
thing. It is true, the act speaks of union and consolidation.
It authorizes the two companies to unite and consolidate: their
stock, and all their rights, privileges, immunities, property, and
franchises; but it prescribes the manner in which this may be
done, and its effect. It is to be done under the name and charter of the Central Railroad and Banking Company; that is, the
union is to be under that charter, not under a new charter of a
company bearing that name. The union is also to be in such a

672

CENTRAL RAILROAD, ETC.,

Co.

V. GEORGIA.

[Sup. Ct.

manner that every holder of the shares of the capital stock of the
Madon and Western Railroad Company shall be entitled to, and
shall, on the surrender of their certificates, receive, an equal
number of shares of the capital stock, as a shareholder in the
*Central Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia, as declared
in the fourth section. But there is no provision for a surrender
of the certificates of stock of the shareholders of the Central,
and none for the issue of other certificates to them. Their
rights, whatever they may be after the union, are evidenced
only by certificates of stock of the company chartered in 1835.
If that charter has gone out of existence, they are stockholders
in no company. Again: the act declared that all contracts of
either of the companies should be assumed by and binding on
the Central Railroad and Banking Company, and all benefits and
rights under the same - that is, under the contracts - should
vest in that company, not in a new corporation then springing
into life. Nowhere in the act is there an intimation of any
legislative purpose that the Central Railroad Company should
cease to exist. The Macon and Western Railroad Company
was undoubtedly intended to go out of existence: for provision
was made for the surrender of all the shares of its capital
stock; and without stockholders it could not exist. The existence of such a provision in regard to the one company, and its
absence in regard to the other, is a strong argument in support
of the conclusion that it was not intended the Central Railroad
and Banking Company should surrender its charter, or dissolve.
And still more, that company was authorized to increase its
capital, plainly for the purpose of making room for the new
shareholders entitled to come in by virtue of their ownership of
shares of the dissolved company's stock. The language of this
provision is significant. It is, that, upon the union and consolidation, the capital stock of the Central Railroad and Banking
Company "shall not exceed the amount of the authorized cal)ital thereof, and the present authorized capital of the Macon and
Western Railroad Company added thereto." This refers plainly
to ,the corporation which it was contemplated should exist after
the union and consolidation of the two companies. What,
then, was intended by the expression "authorized capital
thereof ;" that is, authorized capital of the Central Company ?

Oct. 1875.]

CENTRAL RAILROAD, ETIC.,

O. v. GEORGIA.

67

Had this reference to a new company? Certainly not; for no
new company had any authorized capital. It must have
referred, therefore, to the old Central Raih'oad and Banking
Company, in existence when the act was passed; and that was
the company the amount of whose stock was to be liinited.
after the union had taken place. That company was to continue in existence, and its capital was restricted to the amount
of what had been previously authorized, augmented by a sum
equal to the capital of the absorbed company. This view is
confirmed by the language of a subsequent act of the legislature, enacted Feb. 20,1873, the preamble of which is, "Whereas,
the recent union and consolidation of the Macon and Western
Railroad Company with the Central Railroad and Banking
Company of Georgia, under the name and charter of the latter
company, has largely increa8ed the capital stock, and the number of stockholders of the said last-named company." What
company was it whose stock had been increased by the union ?
Plainly, one that was in existence before the union, - the one
under whose charter the companies had united. The stock of
no new company had been increased. It is clear, therefore,
that the legislature of 1878 did not understand that the old Central Company had gone out of existence.
If, then, this construction of the act of Aug. 24, 1872, be
correct (and we cannot doubt that it is), that act contemplated and authorized no such union and consolidation of the
two companies as should work a surrender of their charter by
both of them, and the creation of a new company. At most,
it intended a merger of the Macon and -Western Railroad
Company into the other, a mode of transfer of that company's
franchise and property, and a payment therefor with stock of
the Central Company. It is of no importance to the inquiry,
whether a new corporation was created by the union and consolidation, that the Central acquired under the act new and
enlarged powers as well as new stockholders. It was authorized to own and operate a railroad from Macon to Atlanta; to
operate it as its own. It was also authorized to increase its
capital stock. But the gift of new powers to a corporation has
never been thought to destroy its identity, much less to change
it into a new being. Such a gift is. not a grant of corporate
"voL.. 1i.

43

074

CENTRAL RAILROAD, ETC.,

existence.

Co. v.

GEORGIA.

[Sup. ot.

It assumes corporate life already existing. Nor is

ft a necessary inference from the provision of the act of Aug.
25, 1872, requiring the board of directors of each company to
certify the union and consolidation to the governor of the State,
that the union was intended to be a surrender of the charter of
both companies, and the acceptance of a new charter. There
were sufficient reasons for that requirement, without the large
inference attempted to be drawn from it. They were, that it
might appear in the office of the Secretary of State that the
M1acon and Western Railroad Company was no longer in existence, and that the capital stock of the Central Company had
'been increased.
Our opinion, therefore, is, that the charter granted to the
Central Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia, by the
act of 1885, was not surrendered by its action under the later
act of 1872; that it still has all the rights that were originally
-onferred upon it, holding them under the cLarter originally
granted to it; and, consequently, that it is not in the power of
the legislature to impose upon it a greater tax than one-half of
vne per centum of its net annual income.
It is still to be determined, however, whether the exemption from a higher tax applies to that portion of the company's
iroperty which was the road and franchise of the Macon and
Western Railroad Company before its merger into the Central
R~ailroad and Banking Company. The Macon and Western
never had any contract with the State limiting its liability to
taxation. Its original charter said nothing upon the subject,
and the amending act of Feb. 9, 1869, gave it no exemption.
It simply provided that the company should thereafter pay the
;same annual fax to the State as the other railroad companies
then did; to wit, one-half of one per cent on the amount of net
income. It contained no negative words. It did not declare
that higher taxation should not be imposed at any future time.
At most, it raised only an implication that a higher tax would
not be levied for the State. But it is a well-settled principle
that a claim for exemption from taxation cannot be supported,
imless the statute alleged to confer it is so plain as to leave no
koom for controversy. No presumption can be made in support
bf the exemption; and, if there be a reasonable doubt, it must

Oct. 1875.]

CENTRAL RAILROAD, ETC., Co. v. GEORGIA.

675

be resolved in favor of the State. Bailey v. MZiaguire, 22 Wall.
215; Delaware Railroad Tax, 18 id. 206. In the latter of these
cases, it was ruled that a provision in a charter, requiring a corn
pany to pay annually into the treasury of the State a tax of
one-quarter of one per cent upon its capital stock of $400,000,
did not prevent a subsequent legislature from imposing a further or different tax upon the company. To the same effect is
The Comrnonwealth v. The -EastonBankc, 10 Penn. St. 451.
If, then, there was nothing in the charter of the Macon and
Western Railroad Company by which its property was ex
empted from such taxation as the legislature might see fit to
impose, did the union and consolidation with the Central Company bring it within the exemption which the Central enjoyed?
We think it did not. Nothing within the act of Aug. 24,1872,"
indicates that such was the intention of the legislature, and it
is not a necessary result of the consolidation authorized. The
obvious purpose of the act was to vest in the Central Company
the rights, privileges, immunities, property, and franchises which
had belonged to the Macon and Western Company; not to enlarge those rights, or to bestow new immunities. If, therefore,
the Macon and Western held its franchises and property subject to taxation, the Central, succeeding to the franchises and
property, holds them alike subject. It took them just as they
were, acquiring no additional or enlarged rights as against the
State. The case of The Philadelphia& Tilmington Railroad
Co. v. .llaryland,10 How. 376, in its leading features is not
unlike the one now before us. There, three railway companies
were united and incorporated into one, in pursuance of statutory
authority. One of the companies was by its charter partially
exempted from taxation; and the law which authorized the'
union of the three companies declared that the new corporat~on should be entitled to all the powers and privileges and
advantages belonging to the uniting companies. In construing this provision of the consolidating. act, thig. court ruled,
that as the constituent companies held their .corporate privileges under different charters, the evident meaning of the pro-vision was, that whatever privileges 'and advantages either of
them possessed should in like 'manner'o
beheld and possessed
by the new company, to the, extent of-the road they-had respectively occupied before the union; that it should stand in-

676

CENTRAL RAILROAD, ETC.,

Co. v.

GEORGIA.

[Sup. Ct.

their place, and possess the powers, rights, and privileges they
had severally enjoyed in the portions of the road which bad
previously belonged to them, and be subject to the liabilities
that rested upon them during their separate existence. A
similar decision was made in The -DelawareRailroad Tax Case,
18 Wall. 206. So in Tomlinson v. Branch,15 id. 460, the same
doctrine was maintained. Two railroad companies, the one
exempt from taxation and the other not exempt, were authorized to unite, so that the latter should merge into the former;
and the statute declared that thereafter all the rights, privileges, and property of the latter should be vested in the former,
and that the former should be liable for all the debts and contracts of the latter. Under the statute, the union was consummated: and the question arose, whether the railroad property
and works which had belonged to the company not exempt
from taxation were exempt under the charter of the other after
the union; and this court held that they were not. The case is
hardly to be distinguished from the present, and it leads directly
to the conclusion that the property and franchises formerly
belonging to the Macon and Western Railroad Company (now
converted into $2,500,000 of the stock of the Central Railroad
and Banking Company) has no well-founded claim to exemption from such taxation as it is now argued the legislature is
forbidden by the Federal Constitution to impose. It is not
protected by any contract -with the State. That property, by
the articles of union between the two companies, sanctioned by
the legislature, amounts to one-third of the entire property of the
company which survived the union, and to that extent, to that
extent only, is it taxable at any greater rate than was stipulated
in the charter of the Central Railroad and Banking Company
granted in 1835.
!he judgment of the Supreme Court must, therefore, be reversed,
and the record be remitted, with instructions to reverse the
order of the Superior Court, and directfurtherproceedings
in accordance with this opinion.
NoTE.- South-western Railroad Company v. Georgia, error to the Supreme
Court of the State of Georgia, was argued by the counsel who appeared in the
preceding case.
MR. JUsrc STRONG delivered the opinion of the court. What we have sail
iA Central Railroad 4- Barinq,Company v. Georgia, is applicable, in its largest ex-

