Oct. 1875.]

LARAMIE COUNTY v. ALBANY COUNTY ET AL.

307

cient answer to the present suit, the long delay of the complainant in asserting any claim to the lands in controversy,
whilst the defendants were constructing, at a vast expenditure
of labor and money, their railroads, deprives his suit of favorable
consideration. It does not appear that for twelve years after
the abandonment of work by the original Minnesota Company
on the roads, the grading of which it commenced, he set up any
claim such as is advanced in this suit: on the contrary, it is
abundantly established that in various ways he urged upon
members of the legislature the adoption of measures for the
construction of the roads, which involved an appropriation by
the State for that purpose of the lands in controversy; and that
after the new companies were organized, and the lands were
granted to them, he urged them to proceed with the enterprises,
knowing that upon those lands they relied to carry on the
works. Under these circumstances, it would be manifestly inequitable and unjust to grant his prayer.
The conclusion we have reached renders it unnecessary to
consider the effect of the alleged forfeiture, declared by the
State, upon the interest of the company in the lands.
D~ecree a/ffirmecZ.
STROG dissented.
MR. JUSTICE

Co IssIONRs

op LARAmE CouNTY v. Co~mssioErs
oF ALBAbTY COUNTY ET AL.

1. Unless the constitution of a State or the organic law of a Territory other-

wise prescribes, the legislature has the power to diminish or enlarge the area
of a county, whenever the public convenience or necessity requires.

2. Where the legislature of Wyoming Territory organized two new counties, and
included within their limits a part of the territory of an existing county,
but made no provision for apportioning debts or liabilities,- Held, that the
old county, being solely responsible for the debts and liabilities it had previously incurred, had, on discharging them, no claim upon the new counties
for contribution.
APPEAL

from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wyo-

ming.
31r. TV£R. Steele for the appellants.
3r. A. H. Jackson,. contra.

808

LARAMIE COUNTY V. ALBANY CONTY ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Counties, cities, and towns are municipal corporations, created by the authority of the legislature; and they derive all
their powers from the source of their creation, except where
the constitution of the State otherwise provides. Beyond
doubt, they are, in general, made bodies politic and corporate:
and are usually invested with certain subordinate legislative
powers, to facilitate the due administration of their own internal affairs, and to promote the general welfare of the
municipality. They have no inherent jurisdiction to make laws,
or to adopt governmental regulations; nor can they exercise
any other powers in that regard than such as are expressly or
impliedly derived from their charters, or other statutes of the
State.
Trusts of great moment, it must be admitted, are confided to
such municipalities; and, in turn, they are required to perform
many important duties, as evidenced by the terms of their
respective charters. Authority to effect such objects is conferred by the legislature; but it is settled law, that the legislature, in granting it, does not divest-itself of any power over the
inhabitants of the district which it possessed before the charter
was granted. Unless the Constitution otherwise provides, the
legislature still has authority to amend the charter of such a
corporation, enlarge or diminish its powers, extend or limit its
boundaries, divide the same into two or more, consolidate two
or more into one, overrule its action whenever it is deemed
unwise, impolitic, or unjust, and even abolish the municipality
altogether, in the legislative discretion. Cooley on Const,
2d ed., 192.
Sufficient appears to show that the complainant county was
first organized under the act of the 3d of January, 1868,
passed by the legislature of the Territory of Dacotah, which repealed the prior act to create and establish that county. When
organized, the county was still a part of the Territory, and embraced within its territorial limits all the territory now
comprising the counties of Laramie, Albany, and Carbon, in
the Territory of Wyoming, - an area of three and one-half
degrees from east to west, and four degrees from north to
south. 'Very heavy expenses, it seems, were incurred by the

Oct. 1875.]

LARAMIE COUNTY v. ALBANY COUNTY ET AL.

809

county duiing that year and prior thereto, greatly in excess of
their current means, as more fully explained in the bill of complaint, which increased the indebtedness to the sum of $28,000.
Othr liabilities, it is alleged, were also incurred by the authorities of the county during that period, which augmented their
indebtedness to the sum of $40,000 in the aggregate.
Pending these embarrassments, the charge is, that the legislature of the Territory passed two acts on the same day, - to wit,
Dec. 16, 1868,- creating the counties of Albany and Carbon
out of the western portion of the territory of the complainant
county, reducing the area of that county more than two-thirds;
that, by the said acts creating said new counties, fully twothirds of the wealth and taxable property previously existing
in the old county were withdrawn from its jurisdiction, and its
limits were reduced to less than one-third of its former size,
without any provision being made in either of said acts that
the new counties, or either of them, should assume any proportion of the debt and liabilities which had been incurred for the
welfare of the whole before these acts were passed.
Payment of the outstanding debt having been made by the
complainant county, the present suit was instituted in her
behalf to compel the new counties to contribute their just proportion towards such indebtedness. Attempt is made to show
that an equitable cause of action exists in the case by'referring
to the several improvements made in that part of the Territory
included in the new counties before they were incorporated, and
by referring to the great value of the property withdrawn from
taxation in the old county, and included within the limits of
the newly-created counties.
Process was served, and the respondents appeared and filed
separate demurrers to the bill of complaint. Hearing was had
in the Distarict Court of the Territory, where the suit was commenced; and the court entered a decree sustaining the demurrers, and dismissing the bill of complaint. Immediate appeal
was taken by the complainant to the Supreme Court of the
Territory, where, the parties having been again heard, the
Supreme Court entered a decree affirming the decree of
the District Court, and the present appeal is prosecuted by
the complainant.

310

LARAMIE

COUNTY v.

ALBANY COUNTY ET AL.

Two errors are assigned, as follows: (1.)

[Sup. Ct.

That the Supreme

Court erred in affirming the decree of the District Court sustaining the demurrers 'of the respondents to the bill of
complaint. (2.) That the Supreme Court erred in rendering
judgment for the respondents.
Corporations of the kind are properly denominated public
.corporations, for the reason that they are but parts of the machinery employed in carrying on the affairs of the State; and
it is well-settled law, that the charters under which such corporations are created may be changed, modified, or repealed, as
the exigencies of the public service or the public welfare may
demand. 2 Kent, Com., 12th ed., 305; Angell & Ames on
Corp., 10th ed., sect. 31; Mcim v. Odom, 3 Bland, 407; St.
Louis v. Allen, 13 Mo. 400; The Schools v. Tatman, 13 Ill. 27;
Yarmouth v. 87cillings, 45 Me. 141.
Such corporations are composed of all the inhabitants of the
Territory included in the political organization; and the
attribute of individuality is conferred on the entire mass of
such residents, and it may be modified or taken away at the
mere will of the' legislature, according to its own views of
public convenience, and without any necessity for the consent
of those composing the body politic. 1 Greenl. Ev., 12th ed.,
sect. 331.
Corporate rights and privileges are usually possessed by such
corporations; and it is equally true that they are subject to
legal obligations and duties, and that they are under the entire
control of the legislature, from which all their powers are
derived. Sixty-five years before the decree under review was
rendered, a case was presented to the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, sitting in Maine, which involved the same principle
as that which arises in the case before the court. Learned
counsel were employed on both sides, and Parsons was Chief
Justice of the court, and delivered the opinion. First he
adverted to the rights and privileges, obligations and duties, of
a town, and then proceeded to say, "If a part of its territory
and inhabitants are separated from it by annexation to another,
or by the erection of a new corporation, the former corporation
still retains all its property, powers, rights, and privileges, and
remains subject to all its obligations and duties, unless some

Oct. 1875.]

LARAMIE

COUNTY v. ALBANY COUNTY ET AL.

311

new provision should be made by the act authorizing the
separation." Windham v. Portland,4 Mass. 389.
Decisions to the same effect have been made since that time
in nearly all the States of the Union' where such municipal
subdivisions are known, until the reported cases have become
quite too numerous for citation. Nor are such citations necessary. as they are all one way, showing that the principle in this
ieountiy is one of universal application. Concede its correctiless, and it follows that the old town, unless the legislature
otherwise provides, continues to be seized of all its lands held
m a proprietary right, continues to be the sole owner of all
its personal property, is entitled to all its rights of action, is
bound by all its contracts, and is subject to all the duties
and obligations it owed before the act was passed effecting the
separation.
Suppose that is so as applied to towns: still it is suggested
that the same rule ought not to be applied to counties; but it is
so obvious that the suggestion is without merit, that it seems
unnecessary to give it any extended examination. County of
ieland v. County of Lawrence, 12 Ill. 8.
Public duties are required of counties as well as of towns, as
a part of the machinery of the State; and, in order that they
may be able to perform those duties, they are vested with certain corporate powers; but their functions are wholly of a public nature, and they are at all times as much subject to the will
of the legislature as incorporated towns, as appears by the best
text-writers upon the subject and the great weight of judicial
authority.
Institutions of the kind, whether called counties or towns,
are th? auxiliaries of the State in the important business of
municipal rule, and cannot have the least pretension to sustain
their privileges or their existence upon any thing like a contract between them and the legislature of the State, because
there is not and cannot be any reciprocity of stipulation, and
their objects and duties are utterly incompatible with every
thing of the nature of compact. Instead of that, the constant
practice is to divide large counties and towns, and, to consolidate small ones, to meet the wishes of the residents, or to promote the public interests, as understood by those who control

312

LARAMIE OOUNTY v. ALBANY COUNTY ET AL.

[Sup. (t.

the action of the legislature. Opposition is sometimes manifested; but it is everywhere acknowledged that the legislature
possesoes the power to divide counties and towns at their pleasure, and to apportion the common property and the common
burdens in such manner as to them may seem reasonable and
equitable. School Society v. School Society, 14 Conn. 469;
Bridge Co. v. East Hartford,16 id. 172; Hampshirev. _Franklin,
16 Mass. 76; North Remstead v. JRemstead, 2 Wend. 109;
lfontpelier v. East Montpelier, 29 Vt. 20; Sill v. Corning,
15 N. Y. 197; People v. Draper, id. 549; Waring v. .3ayor,
24 Ala. 701 ; Hayor v. The State, 15 Md. 376 ; Ashby v. Wellington, 8 Pick. 524; Baptist So. v. Candia, 2 N. H. 20; Denton v. Jackson, 2 Johns. Ch. 320.
Political subdivisions of the kind are always subject to the
general laws of the State; and the Supreme Court of Connecticut decided that the legislature of that State have immemorially exercised the power of dividing towns at their pleasure,
and upon such division to apportion the common property and
the common burdens as to them shall seem reasonable and
equitable. Granby v. Thurston, 23 Conn. 419; Yarmouth v.
Skillings, 45 Me. 142; Langworthy v. Dubuque, 16 Iowa, 273;
Justices' Opinion, 6 Cush. 577.
Such corporations are the mere creatures of the legislative
will; and, inasmuch as all their powers are derived from that
source, it follows that those powers may be enlarged, modified,
or diminished at any time, without their consent, or even without notice. They are but subdivisions of the State, deriving
even their existence from the legislature. Their officers are
nothing more than local agents of the State; and their powers
may be revoked or enlarged and their acts may be set aside or
confirmed at the pleasure of the paramount authority, so long
as private rights are not thereby violated. Bussel v. Beed,
27 Penn. St. 170.
Civil and geographical divisions of the State into counties,
townships, and cities, said Thompson, C. J., had its origin in
the necessities and convenience of the people; but this does not
withdraw these municipal divisions from the supervision and
control by the State in matters of internal government. Proof
of that is found in the fact that the legislature often exercises

Oct. 1875.]

LARAMIE COUNTY V. ALBANY COUNTY ET AL.

818

the power to exempt property liable to taxation, and in many
other instances imposes taxes on what was before exempt, or
increases the antecedent burdens in that behalf. It changes
county sites, and orders new roads to be opened and new
bridges to be built at the expense of the counties; and no one,
it is supposed, disputes the exercise of such powers by the legislature. Burns v. Clarion County, 62 Penn. St. 425; People
v. 1Pinkney, 32 N. Y. 393; St. Louis v. Bussell, 9 Mo. 507.
Old towns may be divided, or a new town may be formed
from parts of two or more existing towns; and the legislature,
if they see fit, may apportion the common property and the
common burdens, even to the extent of providing that a
certain portion of the property of the old town shall be
transferred to the new corporation. Bristol v. New Chester,
8 N. H. 521.
In dividing, towns, the legislature may settle the terms and
conditions on which the division shall be made. It may enlarge or diminish their territorial liabilities, may extend or
abridge their privileges, and may impose new liabilities. Towns,
says Richardson, C. J., are public corporations, created for
purposes purely public, empowered to hold property, and invested with many functions and faculties to enable them to
answer the purposes of their creation.
There must, in the nature of things, be reserved, by necessary implication, in the creation of such corporations, a power
to modify them in such manner as to meet the public exigencies. Alterations of the kind are often required by publiq
convenience and necessity; and we have the authority of that
learned judge for saying that it has been the constant usage, in
all that section of the Union, to enlarge or curtail the power of
towns, divide their territory, and make new towns, whenever
the convenience of the public requires that such a change
should be made.
Half a century ago, when that decision was made, the authority of the legislature to make such a division of a municipal
corporation was deemed to be without doubt; and the same
court decided that the power to divide the property of a municipal corporation is necessarily incident to the power to divide
its territory and to create the new corporation. -Darlingtonv.

814

LARAMIE COU1NTY v. ALBANY COUNTY ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

Mayor, 31 N. Y. 195; Clinton v. Railroad, 24 Iowa, 475; Layton v. New Orleans, 12 La. Ann. 516.
Cases doubtless arise where injustice is done by annexing
part of one municipal corporation to another, or by the division
of such a corporation and the creation of a new one, or by
the consolidation of two or more such corporations into one
cf larger size. Examples illustrative of these suggestions
may easily be imagined. (1.) Consolidation will work injustice where one of the corporations is largely in debt and
the other owes nothing, as the residents in the non-indebted
municipality must necessarily submit to increased burdens in
consequence of the indebtedness of their associates. (2.) Like
consequences follow where the change consists in annexing a
part of one municipal corporation to another, in case the corporation to which those set off are annexed is greatly more in
debt than the corporation from which they were set off.
Hardships may also be suffered by the corporation from which
a portion of its inhabitants, with their estates, may be set off,
in case the corporation is largely in debt, as the taxes of those
who remain must necessarily be increased in proportion as the
polls and estates within the municipality are diminished. Even
greater injustice may arise in cases where the legislature finds
it necessary to circumscribe the jurisdiction of a county or
town by dividing their territory, and creating new counties or
towns out of the territory withdrawn from their former boundaries.
Legislative acts of the kind operate differently under different circumstances. Instances may be given where the hardship
is much the greatest towards the new municipality, as where
the great body of the property and improvements are left
within the new boundaries of the old corporation. Other cases
are well known where the hardship is much greater towards
the old corporation, as where the newly-created subdivision embraces within its boundaries all the public buildings and most
of the public improvements and the most valuable lands. Circumstances of the kind, with many others not mentioned, show
beyond doubt that such changes in the subdivisions of a State
often present matters for adjustment involving questions of
great delicacy and difficulty.

Oct. 1875.]

RIvER BRIDGE Co. v. KANSAS PAC. Ry. CO.

315

Allusion was made to this subject by the Supreme Court of
New Hampshire in the case to which reference has already
been made. 3 N. H. 534. Speaking of the power to divide
towns, the court in that case say that the power in that regard
is strictly legislative; and that the power to prescribe the rule
by which a division of the property of the old town shall be
divided is incident to the power to divide the territory, and is in
its vature purely legislative. No general rule can be prescribed
by which an equal and just decision in such cases can be made.
Such a division, say the court in that case, must. be founded
upon the circumstances of each particular case; and in that
view the court here entirely concurs. Powersv. Commissioners
of Wood County, 8 Ohio St. 290; Shelby County v. Railroad,
5 Bush, 228; Olney v..Harvey, 50 Ill. 455.
Regulation upon the subject may be prescribed by the legislature; but, if they omit to make any provision in that regard,
the presumption must be that they did not consider that any
legislation in the particular case was necessary. Where the
legislature does not prescribe any such regulations, the rule is
that the old corporation owns all the public property within
her new limits, and is responsible for all debts contracted by her
before the act of separation was passed. Old debts she must
pay, without any claim for contribution; and the new subdivision has no claim to any portion of the public property except
what falls within her boundaries, and to all that the old corporation has no claim. Nhorth ffemstead v. Hemstead, 2 Wend.
134; Dil. on Mun. Corp., sect. 128; Wade v. Richmond, 18
Gratt. 583; Higginbotham v. Corn., 25 id. 633.
Tested by these considerations, it is clear that there is no
error in the record.
)ecree affirmed.

REPuJLIOAN RiVER BRIDGE CompATy v. KAwsAS PAoIOrc

RAILWAY

CoMPANY.

1. The decision of the highest State court in which such decision could be had,
adverse to a right under an act of Congress set up in a chancery suit or in
any other case, where all the evidence becomes a part of the record in that
court, the same record being brought here, can be re-examined upon the
law and the facts, as far as may be necessary to determine the validity of

