Oct. 1875.]

RIvER BRIDGE Co. v. KANSAS PAC. Ry. CO.

315

Allusion was made to this subject by the Supreme Court of
New Hampshire in the case to which reference has already
been made. 3 N. H. 534. Speaking of the power to divide
towns, the court in that case say that the power in that regard
is strictly legislative; and that the power to prescribe the rule
by which a division of the property of the old town shall be
divided is incident to the power to divide the territory, and is in
its vature purely legislative. No general rule can be prescribed
by which an equal and just decision in such cases can be made.
Such a division, say the court in that case, must. be founded
upon the circumstances of each particular case; and in that
view the court here entirely concurs. Powersv. Commissioners
of Wood County, 8 Ohio St. 290; Shelby County v. Railroad,
5 Bush, 228; Olney v..Harvey, 50 Ill. 455.
Regulation upon the subject may be prescribed by the legislature; but, if they omit to make any provision in that regard,
the presumption must be that they did not consider that any
legislation in the particular case was necessary. Where the
legislature does not prescribe any such regulations, the rule is
that the old corporation owns all the public property within
her new limits, and is responsible for all debts contracted by her
before the act of separation was passed. Old debts she must
pay, without any claim for contribution; and the new subdivision has no claim to any portion of the public property except
what falls within her boundaries, and to all that the old corporation has no claim. Nhorth ffemstead v. Hemstead, 2 Wend.
134; Dil. on Mun. Corp., sect. 128; Wade v. Richmond, 18
Gratt. 583; Higginbotham v. Corn., 25 id. 633.
Tested by these considerations, it is clear that there is no
error in the record.
)ecree affirmed.

REPuJLIOAN RiVER BRIDGE CompATy v. KAwsAS PAoIOrc

RAILWAY

CoMPANY.

1. The decision of the highest State court in which such decision could be had,
adverse to a right under an act of Congress set up in a chancery suit or in
any other case, where all the evidence becomes a part of the record in that
court, the same record being brought here, can be re-examined upon the
law and the facts, as far as may be necessary to determine the validity of

316

RIVER

BRIDGE CO. v. KANSAS PAC. RY. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

that right. In a common-law action, where the facts are passed upon by a
jury, or by a State court, or by a referee, to whom they have been submitted by waiving a jury, where the finding is by the State law conclusive, this court has the same inability to review those facts as it has in a
case coming from a circuit court of the United States.
2. C Dngress, by joint resolution, granted to the defendant, subject to the approval
of the President, "fractional section one" on the west side of a military
reservation, provided the usefulness of the latter would not, in his opinion,
be impaired for military purposes. The President, by an executive order
set aside to the defendant said fractional section as designated on a map of
survey accompanying the letter of the Secretary of the Interior. The
court which tried the facts having found that the fractional section was inside of the reservation, was in the possession of the defendant, and was
the land claimed in this action, held that the title thereto was vested in the
defendant. Held, 1. That the findingbeing uponamixed question of law and
fact, and largely depending for its correctness on surveys not produced here,
and there being no plat in the record, was not open to inquiry. 2. That
looking to the manifest intent of the joint resolution, and to the fact that
the grant was not to be consummated until the President had determined
that the usefulness of the reservation would not be thereby impaired, the
description in the joint resolution meant such a fractional section within the
reservation on its west side. 3. That the title of the defendant became absolute on the issue of the President's order, and had relation back to the date
of the passage of the joint resolution.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Kansas.
2Ur. Robert llIfcBratney for the plaintiff in error; and

Mr.

William T. Otto, contra.

MR. JUSTICE MIflLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Kansas. The contest in the State court concerned the title to
real estate, both parties claiming under grants from Congress

made at different times.

In the District Court for the County

of Shawnee, where the suit was originally brought, the parties
submitted the case to the court without the intervention of a

jury; and that court found a series of facts, fourteen in number,
on which it declared the law to be for the defendant. This
judgment was affirmed on error in the Supreme Court of the

State, which decision the present writ of error brings before us.
The finding by the District Court was received by the Supreme Court of the State as conclusive as to all facts in issue,
and it is equally conclusive upon us. Where a right is set
up under an act of Congress in a State court, any matter of

law found in the record, decided by the highest court of the

Oct. 1875.]

RIVER BRIDGE CO. v. KANSAS FAC.

RI. Co. 317

State, bearing on the right so set up under the act of Congress,
can be re-examined here.
In chancery cases, or in any other class of cases where all
the evidence becomes part of the record in the highest court of
the State, the same record being brought here, this court can
review the decision of that court on both the law and the fact,
so far as may be necessary to determine the validity of the
right to set up under the act of Congress; but in cases where
the facts are submitted to a jury, and are passed upon by the
verdict, in a common-law action, this court has the same
inability to review those facts in a case coming from a State
court that it has in a case coming from a circuit court of the
United States.
This conclusiveness of the facts found extends to the finding
by a State court to whom they have been submitted by waiving
a jury, or to a referee, where they are so held by State laws,
as well as to the verdict of a jury. Boggs v. The Merced Mining
(Jo., 3 Wall. 304.
Two propositions of law ruled by the State court were excepted to by plaintiff, the first of which gives construction to
the grant under which defendant claims the land, and the other
to the grant under which the plaintiff claims. The first is in
the following language:"That the joint resolution passed by Congress, approved July
26, 1866, was and must be construed as a grant by Congress to the
defendant of the land in controversy; and that upon the issuance of
the executive order of the President, dated July 19, 1867, the legal
title to said land vested in defendant, and relates back to the date
of the passage of said joint resolution of July 26, 1866."
The joint resolution here referred to is as follows: ".Resolved by the Senate and _ouse of 1?epresentatives of the
-nited States of America in Congress assembled, That, subject to
approval by the President, the right of way one hundred feet in
width is hereby granted to the Union Pacific Railroad Company,
and the companies constructing the branch roads connecting there.
with, for the construction and operation of their roads over and
upon all military reserves through which the same may pass; and
the President is hereby authorized to set apart to the Union Pacific
Railroad Company, eastern division, twenty acres of the Fort Ailey

L

818

RIVER BRIDGE Co. v. KANSAS PAC.

RY. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Military Reservation for d6p~t and other purposes in the bottom
opposite 'Riley City;' also fractional section 'one,' on the west
side of said reservation, near Junction City, for the same purposes;
and also to restore from time to time to the public domain any portion of said military reserve over which the Union Pacific Railroad
or any of its branches may pass, and which shall not be required for
inilitary purposes; provided that the President shall not permit
the location of any such railroad or the diminution of any such
r; serve in any manner so as to impair its usefulness for military
vurposes, so long as it shall be required therefor."
On the nineteenth day of July, 1867, the President, by an
executive order, declared that, by virtue of said resolution,
there is set apart to the Union Pacific Railroad Company,
eastern division (which was then the corporate name of the
defendant), the twenty acres of the Fort Riley military reservation, and fractional section one, on west side of said reservation, near Junction City, for a d6p~t and other purposes, as
designated on a map or survey accompanying the letter from
the Secretary of the Interior of Feb. 15, 1867.
The first objection made here to the conclusion of law by
the court, that the resolution and order confer title to the land
in controversy, is that the land of which defendant is in possession as fractional section one is a part of the reservation;
whereas the true construction of the joint resolution is, that it
has reference to a fractional section one lying outside of the
reservation, and adjoining it on the west side.
No plat or survey, offidial or otherwise, accompanies this
record to enable us to understand or decide this question in a
satisfactory manner; nor is this map or letter of the secretary
in evidence. The circuit judge, among his findings of fact,
states distinctly that the fractional section one referred to in
the joint resolution is inside of the reservation, and is the
piece of land now in possession of the defendant, and claimed
by plaintiff in this action. So far as the correctness of this
finding depends, as it must largely depend, on surveys not produced to us, it is not open here to inquiry; and as it must from
its very nature be a mixed question of law and fact, which
would be concluded by the verdict of a jury, it must be equally
conmlusive here; the law question being the construction of the

Oct. 1875.]

RIVER BRIDGE CO.

V. K NSAS PAc.

Ry. Co. 819

words of the grant, and the fact being the manner in which the
existing government surveys were made and numbered in reference to the fractional parts of section one.
Looking, however, to the manifest intent of the joint resolution, to the fact that neither the grant of the twenty acres
confessedly a part of the reservation, nor of the fractional
section one, was to be consummated until the President had
determined that both could be given up without impairing the
usefulness of the reservation for military purposes, we are of
opinion that fractional section one on the west side of said reservation meant such a section to be found in the reservation on
its west side.
The next objection is, that the grant does not purport to
carry the fee; and, as it was only a use or equitable right,
Congress had the power to grant the fee, as it did by the joint
resolution of March 2, 1867, to plaintiff.
It is certainly true that the joint resolution of March 2, and
the patent issued under it to plaintiff, cover geographically the
land in controversy; and Prisbie v.
-hitney,9 Wall. 187, and
the Yosemite Valley Case, 15 id. 77, are relied on to show that
Congress could grant the land to other parties while the title
of defendant was thus inchoate.
But there are two answers to this: 1st, The title of the
defendant, whatever it was, became absolute on the issuing
of the President's order, and had relation back to the date of
the joint resolution under which it was made. It is, therefore,
whatever its nature, an older title than that of plaintiff. It is
not necessary here to decide whether it is a grant of the legal
title, or only the grant of a use or easement; for, in either
case, it vests the possession, of which the defendant cannot be
deprived by an action of ejectment. 2d, The joint resolution
under which plaintiff claims contains a proviso that nothing
therein contained shall be construed to interfere with any grant
of any part of said land heretofore made by the United States.
As no other grant has been shown of any part of this land
except the one under which the defendant claims, this proviso
was no doubt intended to exempt it from plaintiff's grant; and,
if there had been half a dozen other previous grants, it would
have excepted them all as well as this from the operation of
the joint resolution in which it is found.

WILSON V. BOYCE.

[Sup. Ct.

In the first conclusion of law, finding the title under the joint
resolution of 1866, and the order of the President, to be in defendant, we find no error.
The other proposition to which plaintiff excepted declares
that plaintiff had title to all the land covered by the joint resolution of March 2,1867, and by the patent, except that claimed
by defendant under the joint resolution of July 26, 1866.
As this conclusion follows necessarily from what we have
already said, it is unnecessary to notice it further.
Judgment affirmed.

WIsoN v. BoYcE.
1. Where the Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company accepted certain bonds issued
under an act of the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, which declared that they should "constitute a first lien and mortgage upon the
road and property" of the company, -Held, that the word "property" included all the lands of the said company, and that a valid lien on them was
created by the act.
2. The title of a subsequent purchaser from the company of its lands is destroyed
by the sale of them under the mortgage.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
This was an action of ejectment. The controversy turned
upon the effect of an act of the General Assembly of the State
of Missouri, under which bonds were issued to and accepted by
the Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company. The act declared
that the bonds should constitute a first lien and mortgage upon
the road and property of that company.
Subsequently to the receipt of the bonds, the company executed a deed of trust upon her lands which had been granted
by Congress to aid in the construction of the road. The plaintiff claimed under this deed.
The company failed to pay the interest on the bonds; and its
lands were sold by the State, pursuant to the power contained
in the act. The defendant became the purchaser of the demanded premises.
The court below held that the purchaser under the foreclosure

