CLEMENTS V. MACHEBOEUF ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

CLEMIINTS V. MACHEEUF ET AL.
1. Where a party, holding a patent from the United States for certain lands, authorized, by a power of attorney, his agent "to act upon the application and
demand of any person actually owning" town-lots in Denver City, within the
limits of the lands, and to execute and deliver deeds to such persons who
"tnay apply for the same within three months from" a certain date, - Held,
that the "application and demand" must be made within that time; but
the authority of the agent to adjudicate the claims was not so limited.
2. Where a party alleges that a deed executed by, his attorney, under a power
to convey, is invalid for matters not apparent on its face, the burden of
proving them is on such party.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Colorado.
The case was argued by -Ir. J. W. Denver for the appellant
and by Ir. B. T. Merricek for the appellees.
MiR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Equity exercises jurisdiction in cases of accident, mistake,
or fraud, where the party has not a plain, adequate, and complete remedy at law. Where the remedy at law is plain.
equity will not interfere if the remedy is also adequate and
complete; but, if the remedy at law is doubtful, the court of
equity will retain the case, and, if the proofs are satisfactory,
will grant relief.
Jurisdiction to a partial extent may exist at law; but, if the
remedy there is not adequate, -that is, if the party cannot attain at law the full justice of the case, -he may, if he sees fit,
pursue his remedy in equity. Nor is the court of equity
closed to the party unless the remedy at law is complete, and
will secure to the party the whole right involved, in a manner
as just and perfect as would be attained in a suit in equity.
1 Story's Eq., sect. 33; Insurance Co. v. Bailey, 13 Wall. 621.
Fee-simple title to the lands described in the bill of complaint was vested in the complainant by virtue of a patent from
the United States. Twelve or more persons are named in the
bill of complaint as the principal respondents in the suit; and
the complainant alleges that one James Hall, pretending to act
in his behalf, as his attorney in fact, on the several days mentioned in the bill of complaint, without any authority what-

Oct. 1875.]

CLEMENTS V.

MACHEBOEUF ET AL.

ever, conveyed by deeds of warranty certain portions of said
lands, as therein described, to each of the several respondents
named in the bill of complaint. The charge, in effect, is,
that the several respondents, as such grantees, had full notice
that the person pretending to be the agent of the complainant
acted, in making the said several conveyances, without any authority whatever from the complainant; and that the respondents combined with the pretended agent to cheat, wrong, and
defraud the complainant out of his title to said lands, and still
refuse to restore him to his just rights. Wherefore the complainant prays that the several deeds executed by the said pretended agent to the said several respondents may be decreed
to be cancelled, and that the lots may be returned to the complainant wholly discharged from all subsequent conveyances
executed by such grantees, and for general relief.
Service was made; and the respondents appeared, and demurred to the bill of complainant. Hearing was had; and the
court overruled the several demurrers, giving leave to the
respondents to answer. Pursuant to that leave, the respondents
filed several answers, setting up substantially the same defence.
Suffice it to say, that they admit that the complainant was the
owner of the lands in fee-simple, and that certain portions of
the same were conveyed to them by the person professing to act
as the agent of the complainant, as alleged in the bill of complaint, but deny that the person who executed the respective
conveyances acted without authority from the complainant, or
that they ever combined with that person to cheat, wrong, or
defraud the complainant, as alleged in the bill of complaint.
Instead of that, the respective respondents allege that the
agent named, by virtue of the powers of attorney annexed to
the answer, or by virtue of one or both of the same, conveyed
to them respectively the certain lots or portions of said lands
for a valuable consideration, as more particularly described in
the bill filed by the complainant. Answers, differing in certain
particulars, were filed by the respondents; but the propositions
involved in the succinct analysis of the one given presents the
main points of defence set up by all the respondents.
All of the conveyances were made by the alleged agent of
the complainant; and it appears that they are all of record in

CLEM1ENTS V. MACHEBOEUF

ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

the iffice of the clerk and recorder of the county of Arapahoe, where the lands are situated. Annexed to the answers
are the powers of attorney, under one or both of which it is
claimed by the respondents that the respective described portions of the lands were conveyed to them in fee-simple. Exceptions filed to the answer of some of the respondents were
sustained by the court; but it is unnecessary to examine any
qaestion involved in the exceptions, as the repondents acquiesce i
in the decision of the court, and filed amended answers, in conformity to the opinion of the court.
Leave was given by the court to the solicitors of certain of
the respondents to withdraw their appearance for those respondents 5 and thereupon the bill of complaint as to those parties
was dismissed on motion of the complainant. Default was
made by one of the respondents served, and the bill of complaint as to him was taken as confessed; and the conveyance
made to him by the agent -was decreed to be cancelled and annulled, as prayed in the bill of complaint. Three others failed
to file an amended answer, as required by the order of the
court; and the bill of complaint as to those respondents was
also taken: as confessed.
Matters of the kind being all adjusted, the complainant filed
a general replication, and proceeded to take proofs. Among
other things, he introduced the patent from the United States,
and the deposition of Caleb B. Clements, his father; and the
master, appointed to take testimony, annexed to his report to
the court the two exhibits attached to the answers of the respondents. No proofs were introduced by the respondents.
They rested the case upon their deeds of conveyance, and on
the powers of attorney annexed to the answers. Hearing waas
had; and the court of original jurisdiction entered a decree in
favor of the complainant, cancelling the several conveyances
executed to the respondents. ' Immediate appeal was taken to
the Supreme Court of the Territory, where the parties were
again heard; and the Supreme Court reversed the decree of
the- District Court for the county, and remanded the cause to
that court, with directions to dismiss the bill of complaint, except as to the respondents, against whom decrees pro confes8o
had been entered. From that decree the complainant appealed
to this court, and now seeks to reverse that decree.

Oct. 1875.]

CLEMENTS V. MACHEBOEUF ET AL.

Three errors are assigned in this court, as follows: (1.)
That the Supreme Court of the Territory erred in reversing the
decree of the District Court of the county. (2.) That the
Supreme Court of the Territory erred in assuming, without
evidence, that every thing had been done by the agent that was
required by the power of attorney to give validity to the deeds
of conveyance. (3.) That the said Supreme Court erred in
holding that it was not incumbent upon the respondents to
proe that the deeds to them were executed by the agent in
good faith.
Before proceeding to the examination of the alleged errors of
the court below, it should be remarked that the bill of complaint waived an answer under oath, and prayed that the
several deeds of conveyance might be cancelled, and that the
lands in controversy might be restored to the complainant,
wholly discharged from the said conveyances. Separate admission was made by the respondents, in their amended answers,
that each held certain described portions of the lands claimed
under deeds of conveyance executed by the alleged agent; and
they severally denied all combination, wrong, and fraud, and
averred that the lands in question had been conveyed to them
for a valuable consideration by the alleged agent, in virtue of
the powers of attorney annexed to the original answers.
Four exceptions to the amended answers were sustained by
the court; but any remarks upon that subject may well be
omitted, as the amended answers supplied all the alleged defects.
Enough appears to justify the conclusion that the complainant
owned a certain bounty-land warrant, and that he desired to
locate the same on the lands described in the bill of complaint;
that certain equitable interests in certain portions of the lands
were claimed by certain residents of the city of Denver; and
that the complainant, in order to avoid the interposition of any
objections from that quarter to the contemplated location of
his land-warrani, stipulated with the mayor of the city, and
gave to him a bond to the effect, that, if he was permitted to
locate the warrant without opposition, he would convey to
every such equitable claimant a good title to his equitable
interest, provided he should give satisfactory evidence of such
claim, and pay therefor the sum of forty cents for such lot.

CLEMENTS V. AIACHEBOEUF ET AL.

[Sup. Or,

Such an arrangement would not execute itself, and could not
be carried into effect in a manner satisfactory to the parties,
without some agency; and, to effect that object, the complainant, on the 14th of June, 1864, constituted and appointed one
James Hall his true and lawful attorney, "to act upon the
application and demand of any person or persons actually owning" town-lots situate in Denver City, within the lands described in the bill of complaint, and showing such ownership.
"by abstracts of title properly certified by the county clerk of
the county," . . . and upon payment of forty cents for each
and every lot, and the further expenses of every name and
nature, "in accordance with the tenor and meaning of a certain
bond executed ' b me' to the mayor of Denver City, in trust
for the citizens thereof;" and upon the fulfilment of the said
requirements, and all others, as intended and mentioned in said
bond, to make, execute, and deliver good and sufficient deed or
deeds, with covenants of warranty, to any person or persons
that may apply for the same within three months from the
date of said bond, and in comnpliance with the same; giving and
granting unto his said attorney full power and authority to do
and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite
and necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as he might or could do if personally
present, with full power of revocation, thereby ratifying and
confirming all that his attorney or his substitute should lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue thereof.
Beyond doubt, the authority conferred was sufficient to warrant the agent to execute the deeds; and it appears by the
recitals of the instruments that the deeds were executed the
same month and year as the power of attorney.
By the terms of the power, the application and demand were
required to be made within three months from the date of the
bond; but no reason is perceived for limiting the authority of
the agent to adjudicate the claims to so short a period. More
time might be required for proofs and investigation; and there
is nothing in the power of attorney which forbids the agent
from taking such tinie for the purpose as was necessary in
order to do justice between the parties.
None of the deeds were introduced in evidence, except the

Oct. 1875.]

CLMIENTS V. MACHEBOEUF ET AL.

one to the first-named respondent, which bears date Dec. 3,
1864, and which, it is conceded, may be regarded as a sample
of the others. Nothing therein contained is inconsistent with
the power of attorney given to the agent by the complainant;
and the amended answers allege that the respective respondents,
within three months from the date of the bond mentioned in
the first power of attorney, made application to the attorney
for a deed of the lots conveyed to them respectively, and that
the several respondents complied with and fulfilled all the terms
and conditions of the power of attorney and of the bond therein
mentioned, and that the agent acted upon the application and
demand, as therein required, and that he pronounced and
decided in favor of the same, and conveyed the premises in
question to the several respondents for a valuable consideration.
No proof of fraud was introduced by the complainant; and of
course it is unnecessary to remark upon that question, except
to say that the answers, though not under oath, are yet sufficient as a pleading to bring the complainant within the rule,
that he who alleges fraud must prove the allegation, or fail to
recover upon that ground.
Complainant denies that any such bond as that set up in
favor of the respondents was ever given to the mayor of Denver
City: but the deposition of his father proves that he, the father,
gave it in behalf of the complainant; and the manner in which
it was lost, and the recitals in the power of attorney, are sufficient to prove its existence, and to show that the complainant
at that date recognized the covenants of the bond as valid and
obligatory; that it was executed to the mayor in trust for the
persons claiming equitable interests in the premises in question;
and that the power of attorney was executed to the agent in
order that he might act upon the application, and demand of
those claiming such equitable interests.
Such action of the attorney was required to ascertain the
extent of the respective claims; and the provision of the power
was, that the attorney, when the extent of the interest was ascertained, should execute and deliver to the owner of such right
a good and sufficient deed, with covenant of warranty, if the
claimant made the required application for the same within

CLEMENTS V.

]AACHEBOEUF ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

the time specified, and complied with all the other conditions
of the power of attorney,
Two years after the power was given, -to wit, on the 9th
of March, 1866,- the power of attorney was revoked by the
complainant; and it appears that on the 17th of June, 1864,
he gave another power to the same party, authorizing him to
take possession of all land in which he, the principal, was interested in the county of Arapahoe, and to grant, bargain, and
sell the same on such terms as he, the agent, should see fit, and
to execute and deliver to the purchaser good and sufficient
quitclaim-deeds of the same; which, it seems, continued,in
force until the 22d of April, 1867, when it was revoked by
the complainant.
Registry of the first power of attorney was made in the office
of the recorder for Arapahoe County on the 28d of June, 1864,
and of the second in the same office on the 12th of March, 1869,
as appears by the certificate of the recorder. Concede that all
the other deeds were executed about the same time as the one
given in evidence as an example, and it follows that they were
executed more than a year before the first power of attorney
was revoked; and, inasmuch as nothing appears to the contrary, the conclusion from, the record must be that the power
of attorney was in full force when the several conveyances
were executed by the agent.
Grant that, and still it is insisted by the complainant that
the defence is incomplete, because the respondents did not
prove affirmatively that the agent, in executing the power,
complied with the directions contained in the instrument
under which he acted.
Sufficient has already appeared to show that the limitation
of time in the power of attorney applies only to the period in
which the parties claiming such equitable interests in the
lands should make the required application to the attorney of
the principal, and not to the period within which the attorney
should execute the deeds. His authority to make the conveyances is without limit as to time, provided the application was
made within three months from the date of the bond: from
which it follows that the deeds of conveyance show on their
face that they were executed within the limitations of the

Oct. 1875.]

CLEMENTS V.

MfACHEBOEUF

ET AL.

power of attorney; and in such case the presumption is, that
the trust reposed in the attorney was executed in good faith.
Where the deed in such case is apparently valid, courts of justice will not infer any thing against its validity. Very v. Very,
13 How. 360.
Authority to make the conveyances was clearly conferred, if
the agent complied with the directions given in the power;
and the rule is, that, if the deed is apparently within the scope
of the power, the presumption is that the agent performed his
duty to his principal. Morrill v. Cone, 22 How. 82; -Doe v.
Martin, 4 Term, 39; Bail v. f.JcKernan, 21 Ind. 421; Wilburn
v. Spofford, 4 Sneed, 704; Marr v. Given, 23 Me. 55.
Subject to certain exceptions, not applicable in this case, the
general rule is, that the presumption in favor of the conveyance will be allowed to prevail in all cases where it was executed as matter of duty, either by an agent or trustee, if the
instrument is regular on its face. 1 Taylor on Ev., sect. 116.
Facts will not be presumed against a deed of conveyance
which on its face has all the legal requisites to make it a valid
instrument. Burr v. Galloway, 1 McLean, 496.
Instead of that, the rule is, that he who would invalidate
such a deed must impeach it by affirmative proof. Polk v. Wendell, 9 Cranch, 87; Bagnal v. Broderiek, 13 How. 450; Minter
v. Crommelin, 18 id. 87; Bank v. -andridge, 12 Wheat. 70.
Matters not assigned for error will not be examined, as no such
matters are open for argument under the rules of this court.
Considerable effort is expended to show that the deeds of
conveyance were executed under the first power of attorney; in
which proposition the court here is inclined to concur, as the
clear inference is that they all contain covenants of warranty:
but the court does not concur with the complainant that the
attorney was not authorized to execute the same under the first
power, nor that there is any evidence, in any view of the case,
that he acted in bad faith. Charges of bad faith are easily made;
but they are of no avail to the party making the same, unless he
introduces competent evidence to support the accusation.
Even the complainant admits that equitable interests did
exist, and that the parties, if they established such rights by
abstracts of title, properly certified by the county clerk of

IVEs E

AL. v. HAMILTON, EXECUTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Arapahoe County, and made the required application to the
attorney for a deed, within three months, was to have such a
deed with covenants of warranty, on the payment of a merely
nominal consideration; but he insists that the attorney exceeded the power conferred, because the deeds do not bear
date within three months from the date of the bond. Our
views upon that subject have already been expressed; and we
have only to repeat, that the limitation applies to the time of
making the application and demand, and not to the time in
which the deed was to be executed and delivered, if it was
executed within a reasonable time after the adjudication by
the attorney.
Examined in the light of the pleadings, and the facts and circumstances exhibited in the record, it is clear that the charge
of fraud is not sustained, and that the burden of proof is upon
the complainant to prove the allegation that the deeds of conveyance are invalid for any reason not apparent on their face;
and if so, then it is equally clear that there is no error in the

record.

-Decree affirned.

IVES ET AL.

v. HAmLToN, EXECUTOR.

1. Where an improvement in sawmills, for which letters-patent were issued, consists of the combination of the saw with a pair of curved guides at the upper
end of the saw, and a lever, connecting-rod or pitman, straight guides, pivoted cross-head, and slides or blocks and crank-pin, or their equivalents, at
the opposite end, whereby the toothed edge of the saw is caused to move
unequally forward and backward at its two endswhile cutting, and the claim
is, "giving to the saw in its downward movement a rocking or rolling
motion by means of the combination of the cross-head working in the curved
guides at the upper end of the saw, the lower end of which is attached to
a cross-head, working in straight guides and pivoted to the pitman below
the saw, with the crank-pin substantially as described," the use by another party of guides consisting of two straight lines representing two consecutive cords of the curve of the guides of the patentee, and arranged in
other respects in the same manner as this curve, is clearly the employment
of a mechanical equivalent, and is an infringement of the patent.
2. It is not a change in principle to pivot the lower end of the saw to the pitman below the cross-head, and, by a reverse motion of the crank or drivingwheel, produce the same motion of the saw as when the pitman is pivoted
above the cross-head.
3. The description in a patent for an improvement is sufficient if a practical
mechanic, acquainted with the construction of the old machine in which the

