Oct. 1875.]

UNITED STATES V.

Ross.

The blind, or the deaf, or the dumb passenger is subject to
contribution, whether he be a rich man or a pauper. The
patriot, seeking our shores after an unsuccessful struggle
against despotism in Europe or Asia, may be kept out because
there his resistance has been adjudged a crime. The woman
whose error has been repaired by a happy marriage and numerous children, and whose loving husband brings her with
his wealth to a new home, may be told she must pay a round
sum before she can land, because it is alleged that she was
debauched by her husband before marriage. Whether a young
woman's manners are such as to justify the commissioner in
calling her lewd may be made to depend on the sum she will
pay for the privilege of landing in San Francisco.
It is idle to pursue the criticism. In any view which we
can take of this statute, it is in conflict with the Constitution
of the United States, and therefore void.
Judgment reversed, and the case remanded, with directions to
make an order dischargingthe prisonerfrom custody.

UNITED STATES V. ROSS.
1. It is incumbent upon a claimant, under the Captured or Abandoned Property
Act, to establish by sufficient proof that the property captured or abandoned
came into the hands of a treasury agent; that it was sold; that the proceeds of the sale were paid into the treasury of the United States; and that
he was the owner of the property, and entitled to the proceeds thereof.
2. Because the claimant's property was captured and sent forward by a military
officer, and there is an unclaimed fund in the treasury derived from sales of
property of the same kind, a court is not authorized to conclude, as matter
of law, that the property was delivered by that officer to a treasury agent,
that it was sold by the latter, and that the proceeds were covered into the
treasury.
8. The presumption that public officers have done their duty does not supply
proof of independent and substantive facts.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.

1J'. Assistant Attorney- General Edwin B. Smith for the
United States.
Mr. George Taylor, contra.

UNITED STATES V. ROSS.

[Sup. ot.

MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

It is incumbent upon a claimant under the Captured or
Abandoned Property Act to establish by sufficient proof that
the property captured or abandoned came into the hands
of a treasury agent; that it was sold; that the proceeds of
the sale were paid into the treasury of the United States;
and that he was the owner of the property, and entitled to
the proceeds thereof. All this is essential to show that the
United States is a trustee for him, holding his money. That
there is in the treasury a fund arisen out of the sales of property captured or abandoned, a fund held in trust for somebody,
and that the claimant's property, after capture or abandonment,
came into the hands of a quartermaster of the army or a treasury
agent, is not sufficient. There must be evidence connecting the
receipt of it by the treasury agent with the payment of the
proceeds of sale of that identical property into the treasury
We do not say that the evidence must be direct. It must, however, be such as the law recognizes to be a legitimate medium
of proof; and the burden of proof rests upon the claimant
who asserts the connection.
In the present case, the Court of Claims has not found as a
fact that the claimant's cotton came into the hands of a heasury agent, that it was sold, and that the proceeds of that cotton were paid into the treasury. No connection between the
cotton captured and the fund now held by the United States
has been established. Certain facts have been found, and from
them it was inferred, as matter of law, that other facts existed ; and upon the facts thus inferred the court gave judgment.
We think that in this there was error. The claimant owned,
in May, 1864, thirty-one bales of cotton, then in a warehouse
in Rome, Ga. On the 18th of that month, Rome was captured by the United States forces; and shortly afterwards the
cotton was removed on government wagons to a waxehouse
adjoining the railroad leading from Rome to Kingston, and
connecting there with a road leading thence to Chattanooga.
Whether it was the only cotton in that warehouse is not found;
but it is inferrible from the other facts found that it was not.
Subsequently (but how long afterwards does not appear) all of
the cotton in that warehouse was shipped on the railroad to

Oct. 1875.]

UNITED STA'ES v. ROSS.

Kingston, the road being then in the possession of the military
authorities. It is next shown that cotton (some cotton) arrived
in Kingston from Rome before Aug. 19, 1864, and was forwarded to Chattanooga; that, on the 19th of August, forty-two
bales were received at Chattanooga from the quartermaster
at Kingston; that thence they were shipped to Nashville,
where they were received as coming from Kingston, turned
over to the treasury agent, and sold. The proceeds of sale were
paid into the treasury, and no title to these forty-two bales has
been asserted by third persons.
Such were the facts found; and from them the court deduced,
not as a conclusion of fact, but as a presumption of law, that
the thirty-one bales removed on government wagons to the
warehouse immediately adjoining the railroad at Rome, shortly
after May 18, 1864, were a part of the forty-two bales received
at Nashville on the 24th of August, four months afterward, and
there turned over to the treasury agent. It is obvious that this
presumption could have been made only by piling inference
upon inference, and presumption upon presumption. Because
the thirty-one bales of the claimant were taken to the warehouse alongside of the railroad at Rome in May, 1864, and the
cotton in that warehouse afterwards, at some unknown time
(whether before or after Aug. 19 does not appear), was shipped
on the road to Kingston, it is inferred that the claimant's cotton was part of the shipment. -Because somebody's cotton
(how much or how little is not shown) arrived at Kingston
from Rome at some time not known, and was forwarded to
Chattanooga before the 19th of August, 1864, it is inferred that
the claimant's thirty-one bales, presumed to have reached Chattanooga, thus arrived, and were forwarded; and, because fortytwo bales were received at Chattanooga on that day from the
quartermaster at Kingston, it is inferred that the claimant's
bales were among them. These seem to us to be nothing more
than conjectures. They are not legitimate inferences, even to
establish a fact; much less are they presumptions of law.
They are inferences from inferences; presumptions resting on
the basis of another presumption. Such a mode of arriving at
a conclusion of fact is generally, if not universally, inadmissible. No inference of fact or of law is reliable drawn from

UNITED STATES V.

ROSS.

[Sup. Ct.

premises which are uncertain. Whenever circumstantial evidence is relied upon -to prove a fact, the circumstances must
be proved, and not themselves presumed. Starkie on Evid.,
p. 80, lays down the rule thus: "In the first place, as the very
foundation of indirect evidence is the establishment of one or
more facts from which the inference is sought to be made, the
law requires that the latter should be established by direct evidence, as if they were the very facts in issue." It is upon this
principle that courts are daily called upon to exclude evidence
as too remote for the consideration of the jury. The law requires an open, visible connection between the principal and
evidentiary facts and the deductions from them, and does not
permit a decision to be made on remote inferences. Best on
Evid., 95. A presumption which the jury is to make is not a
circumstance in proof; and it is not, therefore, a legitimate
foundation for a presumption. There is no open and visible
connection between the fact out of which the first presumption
arises and the fact sought to be established by the dependent
presumption. -Douglasv. Mitchell, 85 Penn. St. 440.
The Court of Claims thought the facts found by them entitled the claimant to the legal presumption said by this court
to exist in Crussell's Case, 14 Wall. 1; and therefore determined, as a conclusion of law, that the cotton taken from
the claimant was a part of that transmitted to Nashville,
and turned over to the treasury agent and sold. We think
Crussell's Case does not justify such a conclusion. Because
property was captured by a military officer and sent forward by him, and because there is an unclaimed fund in the
treasury derived from sales of property of the same kind as
that captured, because omnia presumuntur rite esse acta, and
officers are presumed to have done their duty, it is not the law
that a court can conclude that the property was delivered by
the military officer to a treasury agent, that it was sold by him,
and that the proceeds were covered into the treasury. The
presumption that public officers have done their duty, like the
presumption of innocence, is undoubtedly a legal presumption;
but it does not supply proof of a substantive fact. Best, in
his Treatise on Evid., sect. 300, says, "The true principle intended to be asserted by the rule seems to be, that there is a

Oct. 1875.]

UNITED STATES V. RoSS.

general disposition in courts of justice to uphold judicial and
other acts rather than to render them inoperative; and with
this view, where there is general evidence of facts having been
legally and regularly done, to dispense with proof of circumstances, strictly speaking, essential to the validity of those
acts, and by which they were probably accompanied in most
instances, although in others the assumption may rest on
grounds of public policy." Nowhere is the presumption held
to be a substitute for proof of an independent and material
fact. The language of the opinion in Crussell's Case would
perhaps mislead, were it not read in connection with the finding of facts. The question was, whether seventy-three bales of
cotton of the plaintiff's had been forwarded, with a much
larger amount, to the officer in charge of military transportation at Nashville, and by him turned over to the treasury agent.
There was no direct proof that the plaintiff's cotton was included
in the shipment; but there was proof that the treasury agent
forwarded the cotton received by him to the supervising agent
at Cincinnati, where a sale was soon after made, and some of
the bales sold were marked with the plaintiff's mark. The
question, therefore, whether the military officer who shipped
the large quantity had shipped with it the cotton of the plaintiff, was not left to depend upon the presumption that he had
done his duty. There was distinct and independent proof of
it in the fact that some of the plaintiff's cotton had reached
Cincinnati, and had been sold there. The presumption was
only confirmatory of what had been proved by evidence, and
in confirmation of that proof it might be invoked. This is all
that can fairly be deduced from the opinion of the court as
delivered by the Chief Justice.
No more need be said of the present case. It is not found
as a fact that the identical cotton captured from the plaintiff
ever came into the hands of a treasury agent, or that it was
sold, and that the proceeds were paid into the treasury; and
the presumption of law adopted by the court, that the cotton
was a part of that transmitted and sold, was unwarranted.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded for a new trial.

