880

ANGLE

v. N. W. MUTUAL LIFE INS. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

The same cases also establish the further rule, that "the
office of the certificate, as it respects the Federal question, is to
make more specific and certain that which is too general and
indefinite in the record, but is incompetent to originate the
question."
These principles dispose of this case. Brown & Stone confessedly sold as agents. The noney they received was not
their own. They were accountable for it to some one. Upon
the record proper, they do not appear to have claimed that the
title of Scott was defective under the patent laws: on the contra-ry, they in effect conceded his title, and sought to escape
accountability to him because they had not conveyed it away.
The decision of the Court of Appeals went no further than to
dispose of this defence. That did not present a Federal question, and it ended the case.
Writ dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

ANGLE

v.

NOR.TH-WEsTE iIT MUTUAL LIFE INSuRANoE

COrPANY.
1. Where a party to a negotiable instrument intrusts it to another for use as
such with blanks not filled, it carries on its face an implied authority to
complete it by filling them, but not to vary or alter its material terms by
erasing what is written or printed as a part thereof, nor to pervert its
scope or meaning by filling the blanks with stipulations repugnant to what
was plainly and clearly expressed in the instrument.
2. It is a principle of universal application, that the material alteration of a written instrument renders it void.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
Mkr. George G. Wright for the appellant.
Mr. C. C. lNourse, contra.
Mr.. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Persons dealing with an agent are entitled to the same protection as if dealing with the principal, to the extent that the
agent acts within the scope of his authority.
Pursuant to that rule, it is settled law, that where a party to

Oct. 1875.]

ANGLE

v. N. W.

MUTUAL LIFE L'-s.

Co.

331

a negotiable instrument intrusts it to another for use as such,
with blanks not filled up, such instrument so delivered carries
on its face an implied authority to complete the same by filling
up the blanks; but the authority implied from the existence of
the blanks would not authorize the person intrusted with tLe
instrument to vary or alter the material terms of the instrument by erasing what is written or printed as part of the same,
nor to pervert the scope and meaning of the same by filling
the blanks with stipulations repugnant to what was plainly
and clearly expressed in the instrument before it was so delivered.
By virtue of the implied authority, such a depositary may
perfect, in his discretion, what is incomplete, by filling the
blanks; but he may not make a new instrument by erasing
what is written or printed, nor by filling the blanks with stipulations repugnant to the plainly expressed intention of the
same as shown by its written or printed terms. Goodman v.
Simonds, 20 How. 361; )Bankv. Neal, 22 id. 108.
Mluch reference to the pleadings will be unnecessary, as the
questions presented for decision arise chiefly out of the facts
deducible from the proofs exhibited in the record. Suffice it to
say, in that regard, that the suit was instituted by the complainant to procure a decree that the bond and mortgage and
the two fire-insurance policies described in the bill of complaint
were delivered and assigned to the respondents without consideration, and to obtain a decree setting aside said bond and
mortgage, and for a return of said policies, the same having
been delivered to the respondents as additional security for a
loan of ten thousand dollars, the proceeds of which never came
to the hands of the complainant; and he charges that the proceeds of the loan were never forwarded to him by his authority;
that if the insurance company ever paid the same in current
funds to the person through whom the loan was negotiated
upon any order signed by him, as pretended by the respondents, the order was forged by the party who presented it, or by
some person interested, to cheat and defraud the complainant
out of the money.
Service was made, and the corporation respondents appeared
and filed an answer, in which they allege that the bond, mort-

832

ANGLE

v. N. W.

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

gage, and fire policies were duly delivered to the company by
the agent of the complainant; and they deny that the order for
the payment of the proceeds of the loan was forged, and aver
that they made the payment to the person who presented it, in
good faith. Proofs were taken; and the court, having heard the
parties, entered a decree dismissing the bill of complaint, and
the complainant appealed to this court.
Sufficient appears to show that the respondents are a corpolation created by the laws of Wisconsin, and that they were
doing a life-insurance business throughout the North-western
States; and it also appeared that they were accustomed to loan
money on real-estate securities. Agents were appointed by the
respondents, in the different States, whose duty it was to solicit
applications for policies, and to transact other matters connected
with their insurance business.
State agents were appointed by the company; but it is conceded that they in turn appointed sub-agents to perform the
same duties, and it appears that the commissions for all such
ser-ices were paid by the company to the State agents.
Applications for loans of money were frequently made to the
company through the State agents; and it appears that such
agents of the company were furnished with blank forms for
such applications, and for the appraisement of real estate intended as security for such loans. When an application for a
loan was made, the blank forms were filled up by the agent.
It was the business of the borrower to fuxnish abstracts of
the title of the real estate offered as security, all of which were
transmitted by the agent to the home office for examination;
and, if they were approved, the course of business was that the
bond and mortgage were prepared and forwarded to the agent,
to be delivered to the applicant for execution and return.
Of course, the applicant might still refuse to execute the
bond and mortgage; but if he was satisfied with the terms of
the instruments, and completed the same, they were given back
to the agent, dnd were by him returned to the company. It
seems that the money loaned was usually transmitted to the
applicant by means of a draft payable to the order of the borrower; or, in certain cases, the money was paid by the company
at the home office, pursuant to the written order of the borrower,

Oct. 1875.]

ANGLE

v. N. W.

MUTUAL LIFE INS. Co.

333

evidenced by a receipt on the back of the order by the person
in whose favor it was drawn. Such papers from the home
office to the borrower and from the borrower to the company,
it is conceded, are usually mailed to the State agent, and that
they pass through his office; but it is insisted by the respondents
that he has no interest in the business, and that he receives no
compensation from the company for his services.
Sub-agents, it is conceded, were employed by the agents
appointed by the company; and it appears that I. T. Martin,
during the winter and spring of 1871, was a regular agent of
the company, appointed for the State of Iowa; that he employed one C. W. Copeland, as sub-agent, to solicit applications for life insurance; that Copeland claimed to be the
agent of the company to effect loans in their behalf on security
of real estate; and that he represented to the complainant that
he, the sub-agent, could procure for the complainant a loan from
the company of $10,000 on such security.
Both the complainant and Copeland then resided at Cedar Rapids, and it was at that place and about that time that the former
was introduced to the latter; and it appears that Copeland was
at that time canvassing for the company, to procure customers
to take policies in the company, and to induce persons to take
loans from the company on security of real estate. About the
same time, Copeland published a card in one or more of the
local newspapers, representing that he was the agent of the company; and it appears that he exhibited to the complainant
pamphlets, circulars, and other documents, of the kind prepared
and distributed by the State agents, as the means of extending
the business of the company, and that notice was published by
the same party in one or more of the local journals, in which
he is described as the agent of the insurance company.
Evidence entirely satisfactory was introduced, showing that
it was during that period that the complainant commenced
negotiations with Copeland to obtain for him a loan from the
company for the sum of $10,000, to be secured by bond, and
mortgage of real estate. Conversation ensued between them;
and the evidence shows that Copeland told the complainant
that he was going to quit preaching, and that he had made
arrangements to act as attorney for the said insurance com-

834

ANGLE

v. N. W.

MUTUAL LIFE INS.

Co.

[Sup. Ct.

pany; that he had already secured a loan for one person; and
that, being an intimate friend of the general agent, he could get
the money whenever he recommended a loan.
Blank forms were requisite; and it appears that Copeland
furnished the complainant with a printed blank form of an
application for a loan, and that he requelsted the complainant
merely to insert the description of the property to be offered
as security and his valuation of the same, stating that he, the
agent, would fill the other blanks, and send the application
forward. Accordingly, the complainant inserted the description of the property, giving his valuation of the same in figures,
and also gave the name of his wife and the date of the instrument, and his own name, and place of residence. Incomplete
though the instrument was, yet the witness states that he
delivered it to Copeland, and that he, the witness, never saw it
afterwards until he gave his deposition in the case, and that
the indorsements on the back of the instrument were not there
when it left his possession.
Due notice was received by the complainant, from the presi.
dent of the company, that his application for the loan was
accepted; and he was also informed, in the same communication, that abstracts of the title of the property and certain
certificates were required to show that the property was free
of incumbrances and liens, and that when the same were
received, if found- to be correct, their attorney would prepare the bond and mortgage, and forward the same to him for
execution.
Such abstracts and certificates were procured by the complainant, at the instance of Copeland, and they were delivered
by the complainant to him at his request; and it appears that
Copeland presented to the complainant the bond and mortgage, ready for his signature, he having procured the signature
of the complainant's wife to the mortgage before the instruments were exhibited to the complainant for execution. They
were signed by the complainant at his house, no one being
present except his wife and Copeland; and the complainant
testifies that he then and there delivered the same to Copeland,
together with two fire policies of insurance, in order that the
fire policies might be indorsed by the agent of the companies

Oct. 1875.]

ANGLE V.

N. W.

MUTUAL LIFE INS. 0o.

335

issuing the same, in a way to make the loss, if any, payable to
the corporation respondents. Decisive proof that Copeland
received the bond and mortgage for record and transmission is
also exhibited by the receipt which he gave in behalf of the
company, and which he signed as agent.
Throughout the whole transaction, the negotiations with the
complainant were conducted by Copeland; and the evidence
shows beyond doubt that all the instruments and documents
which were delivered by the complainant to Copeland were by
him delivered or transmitted to the State agent of the company, and that ,they were all forwarded by the latter to the
company at their home office, where the officers of the company
transact all their business.
Such applications for loans are usually made direct to the
executive committee, and are required to be signed by the
party desiring the loan; and, when the loan papers have been
perfected, the company pay to the owner directly, either in
checks or drafts to his order, unless the borrower, by written
request or order, may have otherwise directed: but the president, in his testimony, admits that the State agent sometimes
forwards applications to the executive committee for parties
residing in the State, and that the home office does advise
such parties, through him, of the action of the company in
respect to such applications. Cases of the kind, therefore, it
may be assumed, had occurred before, where the business was
transacted through the State agent; but, if not, still it is
proved beyond all doubt that all the negotiations with the com
plainant were conducted by the sub-agent, and that all the
propositions to and from the company, in respect to the loan in
question, were transmitted to the company through the same
State agent.
Satisfactory abstracts and certificates having been forwarded,
and the due execution and delivery of the bond and mortgage
having been procured, nothing remained to be done to enable
Copeland to carry his fraudulent scheme into effect, except to
get an order for the money in such a form that he could convert
the fund to his own use, without danger of immediate exposure
and detection. Antecedent conversations between the parties
made it known to him that the complainant expected to repolve

336

ANGLE

v. N. W.

MUTUAL

LIFE

INS. CO. ' [Sup. Ct.

the proceeds in drafts payable to his own-order; it appearing
that the complainant had told him that he wanted the amount
in two drafts, one for $6,000 and the other for $4,000, each
payable to his own order. Apprised of what the complainant
desired, he doubtless thought it prudent to seem to conform to
his expressed wish. Circumstances occasioned some delay:
but Copeland finally informed the complainant that the papers
had gone forward, and stated that notice that the papers
were satisfactory might come any day, and suggested that the
complainant might as well sign the blank order for the money,
adding that he "would fill it out;" and the witness testifies that
he looked at the blank, and, seeing that it contained the words
"in drafts to the order of," put his signature to it, placed it in
the drawer of Copeland, and went home.
Taken as a whole, the evidence satisfies the court, beyond
all doubt, that the blank form which the complainant signed
was without date, except the year, which was in printed
figures; that it contained no direction except the printed word
"to," followed by a blank; that it did not contain the name
of any payee, nor any thing upon the subject, except the printed
words "pay to," followed by a blank; that it did not specify
any amount, nor contain any thing upon the subject, except the
printed word "dollars," preceded by a blank; that it did not
specify for what the payment was to be made, nor did it contain any thing upon the subject, except the printed words "on
account of," followed by a blank; and that it contained nothing
in respect to the medium of payment, except the printed words
"in drafts to the order of," the word "of" immediately preceding the name of the plaintiff, H. G. Angle, and so close to
the first initial of the signature as to leave no blank between
the erased sentence and the name of the complainant.
Subsequent to the time when the blank form was signed
by the complainant, and was left in the drawer of Copeland,
the printed words "drafts to the order of," just preceding the
signature of the complainant, were erased, evidently with pen
and ink, and the words "current funds" were inserted in writing between the printed word "in" and the word "drafts,"
which is the first word of the sentence "drafts to the order
of," the effect of which was to authorize the company to pay

Oct. 1S75.]

ANGLE

v. N.

W.

MUTUAL LIFE INS.

Co.

337

the proceeds of the loan "in current funds," instead of "drafts
to the order of" the signer of the blank form.
Armed with that instrument, the blanks having been filled,
and the words "current funds" having been inserted, in lieu
of the words "drafts to the order of," which were erased, Copeland went to the home office and obtained the whole proceeds
of the loan, and absconded with the whole amount.
Full power to receive the proceeds of the loan would have
been conferred upon the person who presented it, even if the
holder of the blank form had done nothing more than to fill
the blanks contained in the incomplete instrument; but it is
quite obvious, that, if he had merely filled the blanks of the
instrument, the company would have been obliged to make
the payment "in drafts to the order of" the complainant,
which, it is easy to see, would have defeated thp fraudulent
intent of the party who presented it for payment, as the drafts,
if payable to the order of the complainant, could not be by that
party converted into current funds. Had he merely filled the
blanks, the body of the completed instrument would have read
as follows; to wit: "Pay to [the person named] ten thousand
dollars, on account of bond and mortgage, in drafts to the ordei
of H. G. Angle." Evidently such an instrument would not have
answered the purpose of the holder of the blank form, if he intended to betray his trust, and to convert the proceeds of the
loan to his own use, without the consent of the lawful owner
of the fund.
Blanks necessary to complete the instrument and render it
operative, it may be admitted, might be filled by the holder of
the instrument; but it is clear that it was not possible, within
the meaning of that rule, to give the instrument such a form
as would make it answer the supposed fraudulent intent, without doing violence to the scope and design of the blank form,
as evidenced by the printed terms it contained, which, as outlines, plainly indicate that the signer required that the payment of the proceeds of the loan should be made in drafts to
his own order. Manifest as that indication was, and as it
would be, even to the casual reader, it became necessary, in
order to make the completed instrument answer the fraudulent
intent of the holder, to change the scope and design of the same,
VOL. Ii.

22

ANGLE v. N. W. MUTUAL LIFE INs. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

which he effectually accomplished by erasing the printed words
"drafts to the order of," which immediately preceded the name
of the signer, as before explained, and by inserting the words
" current funds " between the erased word "drafts" and the
word "in," between which and the erased word "drafts" there
was a short blank, scarcely sufficient to admit the written words
"current funds," as will be seen by reference to the instrument
actually presented to the company, which was sent up with the
transcript as an original paper.
Compare the altered instruinent with what it would have
been if nothing had been done to it except to fill the blanks,
and the criminal character of the act is manifest. By the
erasure and insertion of the words "current funds," it was
made to read as follows: S'Pay to [the person named] ten
thousand dollars, on account of bond and mortgage, in current funds."
Such an alteration, it is insisted by the complainant, is not;
and cannot be justified by any implication which arises from
the existence of blanks in the instrument, inasmuch as the
alteration consists both of the erasure of material words and
the insertion of other material words in lieu of those erased,
which change the scope and legal effect of the instrument from
what it would have been if the blanks had been filled without
any such erasure and insertion.
Complainant concedes that blanks in such an instrument
may be filled by the person to whom it is intrusted for use;
but he contends that the said alterations made in the instrument in this case were a forgery, which renders the completed
instrument void; and the court here concurs in that proposition.
Negotiable instruments are frequently delivered for use, with
blanks not filled; and, in respect to such instruments, it is held
that where a party to such an instrument intrusts it to the
custody of another for use, with blanks not filled up, whethe7
it be to accommodate the person to whom it was intrusted or to
be used for the benefit of the signer of the same, such negotiable instrument carries on its face an implied authority to fill
up the blanks necessary to perfect the same; and the rule is,
that, as between such party and innocent third parties, the
person to whom the instrument was so intrusted must be

Oct. 1875.]

ANGLE v. N. W. MUTuAL LIFE INS. Co.

839

deemed the agent of the party who committed the instrument
to his custody, in filling the blanks necessary to perfect the
instnment. Violet v. Patton, 5 Cranch, 142; Russell v. Langstaffe, 2 Doug. 514; Collis v. EmBnet, 1 H. Black. 318; Montague v. Perkins, 22 Eng. L. & Eq. 516.
Questions of the kind most frequently arise in respect to
negotiable instruments; but the court here is of the opinion
that the same rule is properly applicable to the case before the
court. Authority to act for another may be express, or it may,
in certain cases, be implied; but an implied authority has its
limitations as well as that which is express. Examples to
prove that proposition exist everywhere; but it would be difficult to give one more apposite and striking than the one presented by the case in decision, where the authority to fill blanks
is implied from their existence in an instrument intrusted to
another for use. 1 Greenl. Ev. (12th ed.), sect. 567.
Beyond all doubt, such a party may fill every blank which it
is necessary should be filled to perfect the instrument and render
it operative, within its scope and design, if the terms or words
of the instrument sufficiently indicate what that scope and
design are. Cases arise, it must be conceded, where a party
signs his name to a blank paper, and intrusts the paper containing his signature to another for use; but it is sufficient to
say upon the subject, that the case before the court is not of
that character. Instead of that, the blank form signed by the
complainant contained terms clearly indicating that the money
was to be paid on account of "the bond and mortgage," and
that the signer of the blank form required the payment to be
made "in drafts to the order of" the signer of the same; and
it was no more competent for the person to whom it was intrusted, in that state of the case, to erase the words "drafts to
the order of," and to insert in the short blank preceding that
sentence the words "current funds," than it would have been
for that person to have prepared and executed a new instrument in the name of the signer, requesting the company to pay
the proceeds to the order of the holder of the blank form.
Argument is scarcely necessary to support that proposition,
as it is self-evident that the erasure of the words "drafts to the
order of" changed the manifest scope and design of the incom-

840

ANGLE v. N. W.

MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

plete instrument; and it is equally clear that the words "current funds," which were inserted, are utterly repugnant to the
printed terms "drafts to the order of," which were erased by
black lines. Banc v. -Douglas,31 Conn. 180.
Properly applied, that case is decisive of the present case.
It appears that the defendant in that case put his name upon
an inchoate bill of exchange, drawn and signed by the maker,
on a certain firm, blanks being left for the date, amount, time
of payment, and the name of the payee; and that the defendant
delivered the paper, thus indorsed, to the maker of the same, who
struck out the name of the place where it was made, and the name
of the firm on which it was drawn, and filled out the instrument,
so as to make it a promissory note for $3,500, payable to the
order of another party. Upon these facts the court held that
an inference arose, - which, in favor of a bona fide holder of the
paper, was irresistible, - that the person to whom the paper was
intrusted was authorized, by filling the existing blanks, to
complete the instrument and to fill the blanks so as to bind
the defendant as indorser of a bill of exchange, drawn by him
on the firm therein named, for any sum, payable at any time
and place. But, say the court, no inference, or presumption of
authority, can arise that he might turn the bill drawn on one
firm into a bill drawn on another, or to turn it into a promissory
note. Neither dictum nor decision, say the court, has been
cited to warrant such a claim; and they add, that they suppose
that none such can be found. Suit in that case was brought
by the bank, claiming to be an innocent holder; but the court
held, that, notwithstanding the erasures, unmistakable evidence
of the original character of the instrument remained, and that
the evidence was amply sufficient to excite distrust, and make
it the duty of any one to whom the paper was offered to inquire
when and by what authority such erasures and alterations had
been made. Gardnerv. Walsk, 32 Eng. L. & Eq. 162.
Where blanks exist in negotiable securities, delivered to
another for use, the custody of the paper, under such circumstances, gives the custodian the right to fill the blanks; but it
does not confer authority to make any addition to the terms of
the note; and if any such of a material character are made by
such a party, without the consent of the party from whom the

Oct. 1875.]

ANGLE V.

N\. W.

IUTUAL LIFE INS. Co.

paper was received, it will avoid the note, even in the hands of
an innocent holder. Ivory v. Michael, 33 Mo. 400.
Proof was given in that case that the parties had for many
years been in the habit of indorsing for each other; that the
defendant indorsed the note, which was in blank, as to the time
of payment, and was payable without defalcation or discount.
Before using it, the other party filled the blank with thirty days,
and added, after the word "discount," "bearing ten per cent after
maturity." Attempt was made in argument to sustain the right
to make the addition to the note, because it was delivered before
the blank was filled; but the court held that the insertion of
the words, "bearing ten per cent after maturity," was not the
filling of a blank, and that it rendered the note invalid. Wood
v. Steele, 6 Wall. 80.
Persons intrusted with negotiable securities for use by the
parties to it may, if it contains blanks, fill the same: but Mr.
Parsons, though he admits that rule to its fullest extent, adds,
that, if one materially changes words which are printed or
written, the note by such change would be rendered invalid;
and certainly it must be so if the change substantially varies
the scope of the instrument, to the prejudice of the party from
whom it was obtained. 2 Pars. on Bills & Notes, 566.
Suppose that is so: still it is insisted by the respondents that
the rule is not applicable in this case, because they had not
notice of the defect in the blank order. But the court here is
entirely of a different opinion. Even the holders of negotiable
'securities, taken" in the usual course of business, before the
securities fall due, are held chargeable with notice, where the
marks on the instrument are of a character to apprise one to
whom the same is offered of the alleged defect. 'Goodman v.
Simonds, 20 How. 365.
When it is proposed to impeach the title of a holder, for value,
by proof of any facts and circumstances outside of the written
instrument itself, it is a very different matter. He is then to be
affected, if at all, by what has occurred between other parties;
and he may -well claim an exemption from any consequences
flowing from their acts, unless it be first shown that he had
knowledge of such facts and circumstances at the time the
transfer was made. These principles are of universal applica
tion; but where a person takes a negotiable security, which,

842

ANGLE v. N. W. MUTUAL LIFE INs. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

upon the face of it, is dishonored, he cannot, says Taney, C. J.,
be allowed to claim the privileges which belong to a bona fide
holder. Andrews v. Pond, 18 Pet. 65.
If he chooses to receive it under such circumstances, he takes
it with all the infirmities belonging to it, and is in no better
condition than the person from whom he received it. The
same doctrine was enforced and applied in a subsequent case,
where, in speaking of a promissory note, so marked as to show
for whose benefit it was to be discounted, the court held that
all those dealing in paper "with such marks on its face must
be presumed to have knowledge of what it imported." Bowler
v. Brently, 14 Pet. 818; Brown v. Davis, 8 Term, 80.
Actual notice in such a case is not required, even in suits
founded upon negotiable securities, where the evidence of its
infirmity consists of matters apparent on its face; nor is any
different or stricter rule applicable in cases like the present, it
appearing that the printed words, though erased so as to be
inoperative, were still entirely legible, even to the casual reader;
and that the words "current funds," inserted before the erased
word "drafts," were plainly repugnant to the erased words,
"drafts to the order of," which followed them in the same
connection.
Constructive notice in such cases is held sufficient, upon the
ground, that, when a party is about to perform an act which he
has reason to believe may affect the rights of third persons, an inquiry as to the facts is a moral duty, and diligence an act of justice. Whatever fairly puts a party upon inquiry in such a case
is sufficient notice in equity, where the means of knowledge are
at hand; and if the party, under such circumstances, omits to
inquire, and proceeds to do the act, he does so at his peril, as he
is then chargeable with all the facts which by a proper inquiry
he might have ascertained. Hawley v. Cramer, 4 Cow. 712;
Hill v. Simpson, 7 Yes. Jr. 170; Kennedy v. Green, 8 Myl, &
K. 722; Booth v. Barnum, 9 Conn. 286; Pitney v. Leonard,
I Paige, 461; Pringle v. Phillips,5 Sand. 157.
Authorities to show that the material alteration of a written
instrument renders it void is unnecessary, as it is a principle of
universal application.
Decree reversed,and the cause remanded, with directionto enter
a decree in favor of the complainant.

