Ot.1875.]

HARSHMAN v. BATES COUNTY.

to the accused against surprise, misconception, and error in
conducting his defence, and in order that the judgment in the
,ease may be a bar to a second accusation for the same charge.
Considerations of the dnd are entitled to respect; but it is
obvious, that, if such a description of the ingredient of an offence
-created and defined by an act of Congress is held to be sufficient, the indictment must become a snare to the accused; as
it is scarcely possible that an allegation can be framed which
would be less certain, or more at variance -with the univeisal
rule that every ingredient of the offence must be clearly and
accurately described so as to bring the defendant within the
true intent and meaning of the provision defining the offence.
Such a vague and indefinite description of a material ingredient
of the offence is not a compliance with the rules of pleading in
flaming an indictment. On the contrary, such an indictment
is insufficient, and must be held bad on demurrer or in arrest
,of judgment.
Certain other causes for arresting the judgment are assigned
in the record, which deny the constitutionality of the Enforcement Act; but, having come to the conclusion that the
indictment is insufficient, it is not necessary to consider that
question.

IA.Rsm-AIN v. BATES COUNTY.
1. Sect. 14 of art. 11 of the Constitution of Missouri, adopted in 1865, declaring
that " The general assembly shall not authorize any county, city, or town,
to become a stockholder in, or to loan its credit to, any company, association, or corporation, unless two-thirds of the qualified voters of such
county, city, or town, at a regular or special election to be held therein,
shall assent thereto," extends as well to townships as to counties, cities,
and towns.
2 Although a subscription for stock of a railroad company be duly authorized by
the requisite number of the qualified voters of a township, if the company,
before the subscription be actually made, becomes consolidated with another,
thereby forming a third, the County Court is not empowered to subscribe,
on behalf of the township, for stock of the new company, and issue bonds
in payment therefor.
S. The holder of coupons attached to the bonds in question in this suit is not entitled to recover thereon, as sufficient notice of the objection to the validity
of the bonds is contained in their recitals.

HARSHmAN

V. BATES COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
This is an action against the county of Bates, upon a large
number of coupons originally attached to bonds issued by the
County Court of that county.
The following is a copy of one of the bonds and coupons: -

"[No. 90.

UNITED STATES OF AmERICA.
[$1,000.
"STATE OF MISSOURI, County of.Bate:"Issued pursuant to articles of consolidation in payment of stock
due the Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company, consolidated Oct. 4, A.D. 1870.
"Know all men by these presents, that the county of Bates, in
the State of Missouri, acknowledges itself indebted and firmly
bound to the Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company, in the
sum of $1,000 ; which sum the said county of Bates, for and in
behalf of Mount Pleasant Township, therein promises to pay to
the said Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company, or bearer,
at the Bank of America, in the City and State of New York, on the
eighteenth day of January, A.D. 1886, together with the interest
thereon from the eighteenth day of January, 1871, at the rate of
ten per centum per annum, which interest shall be payable annually
on the presentation and delivery at said Bank of America of the
coupons of interest hereto attached.
"This bond being issued under and pursuant to an order of the
County Court of Bates County, by virtue of an act of the general
assembly of the State of Missouri, approved March 23, 1868, entitled 'An Act to facilitate the construction of railroads in the
State of Missouri,' and authorized by a vote of the people taken
May 3, 1870, as required by law, upon the proposition to subscribe
890,000 to the capital stock of the Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf
Railroad Company, and which said railroad company last aforesaid
and the former Pleasant Hill Division of the Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad Company were, on the fourth day of
October, 1870, consolidated, as required by law, into one company,
under the name of the Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company; and which said last-named railroad company, as provided by
law, and under the terms of said consolidation thereof, possesses
all the powers, rights, and privileges, and owns and controls all the
assets, subscriptions, bonds, moneys, and properties whatever, of the
two said several companies forming said consolidation, or either
one of them.

Oct. 1875.]

HARSHMAN V. BATES COUNTY.

, 571

"In testimony whereof, the said county of Bates has executed
this bond, by the presiding justice of the County Court of said
county, under the order thereof, signing his name hereto; and the
clerk of said court, under the order thereof, attesting the same, and
affixing the seal of said court.
"This done at the city of Butler, county of Bates, this eighteenth
day of January, A.D. 1871.
(COUNTY COURT OF)
B. H. THORNTON,
[SEAo.,
BATEs Co.

O

PresidingJustice ofthe County Court of
Bates County. Ma.

"Attest:
"W. J. SMITH,
Clerk of the County Court of Bates County, Mo.

" $100.]

Coupon.

[$100.

"BuTImnR, BATES COUNTY, MO.,
"Jan. 18, A.D. 1871.

"The County of Bates acknowledges to owe the sum of $100,
payable to bearer on the eighteenth day of January, 1872, at the
Bank of America, in the city of New York, for one year's interest on bond No. 90.
" W. J. SMITH,
"Clerk County Court Bates County, Mo."

The plaintiff alleges, that, on the eighteenth day of January,
1871, the defendant issued its several bonds, by which it bound
itself to pay to the Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company, and for and on behalf of Mount Pleasant Township, in
said county, $1,000, payable to said company at the Bank of
America, &c., and that he is the holder of certain coupons of
said bonds.
That, prior to the fifth day of April, 1870, certain tax-payers
of Mount Pleasant Township petitioned the County Court of
Bates County, setting forth their desire to subscribe $90,000
to the stock of the Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad
Company: and thereupon the court ordered an election in said
township, for the 3d of May, 1870; which was held, and twothirds of the qualified voters of said township voting thereat
voted for it.

That, on the eighteenth day of July, 1870, another corporation was formed by the name of the Pleasant Hill Division of the

572

5HARSHMAN v. BATES COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad Company; and that
these two corporations, one being the Lexington, Chillicothe, and
Gulf Railroad Company, and the other being the Pleasant Hill
Division of the Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad Company, were, on the fourth day of October, 1870, consolidated
uider the name of the Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad
Company.
Tha t, thereafter - to wit, on the 18th of January, 1871the County Court of Bates County, in pursuance of the authority conferred upon it by the vote of the people of said
township, subscribed the said sum of $90,000, in behalf of said
township to said Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company
(the consolidated company); and that said bonds (to which
the coupons in suit were annexed) were, among others, issued
by the said court in payment for said subscription.
The defendant demurred to the petition, on the ground that
it shows that the County Court had no authority in law to
make the subscription recited in the bonds, or to issue the
bonds in payment therefor; and because it also shows that the
question of making the subscription to the new or consolidated
company was never submitted to a vote of the people of Mount
Pleasant Township, nor assented to by them, as required by the
constitution and laws of the State. The court sustained the
demurrer, and gave judgment accordingly; whereupon the case
was brought here.
Argued by 2Ir. T. IC Skinker for the plaintiff in error, and
submitted on printed briefs by MKr. John . Ross and Messrs.
Glover &' Shepley for the defendant in error.
BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought to recover the amount due on certain coupons attached to bonds of Bates County, Mo., issued
at the request and on account of Mount Pleasant Township
in said county, in payment of a subscription, on behalf of
the township, to the capital stock of the Lexington, Lake, and
Gulf Railroad Company. The subscription was made under
a law of Missouri, called the "Township Aid Act," passed in
1868; by which, on the application of twenty-five tax-payers
and residents of any township, for election purposes, in any
MR. JusiICo,

Oct. 1875.]

HARSHRMAN

v. BATES COUNTY.

county, the County Court may order an election to be held in
such township to determine whether and on what terms a subscription to any railroad to be built in or near the township
shall be made; and if two-thirds of the qualified voters of the
township, voting at such election, are in favor of the subscription, the County Court shall make it in behalf of the township,
and, if bonds are proposed to pay the subscription, the court
shall issue such bonds in the name of the county, but to be
provided for by the township. It is contended that this law is
repugnant to the fourteenth section of aiticle 11 of the Constitution of Missouri, adopted in 1865; by which it is declared
that "the general assembly shall not authorize any county, city,
or town to become a stockholder in, or to loan its credit to, any
company, association, or corporation, unless two-thirds of the
qualified voters of such county, city, or town, at a regular or
special election to be held therein, shall assent thereto." Now,
the law of 1868 only requires the assent of two-thirds of the
qualified voters who vote at such election. This is certainly a
broad difference; and if the constitutional restriction extends,
by implication, to townships, as well as to counties, cities, and
towns, an election not conforming to the requirements of the
constitution would be invalid and confer no authority to make
a subscription. The petition in this case only alleges that twothirds of the qualified voters voting at the election voted in
favor of the subscription; which does not satisfy the demands
of the constitution. The question, therefore, arises, whether
townships are within the restriction of the constitutional provision. A township is a different tlhing fromi a town in the
organic law of Missouri; the latter being an incorporated
municipality, the former only a geographical subdivision of a
county. As said in the State v. Linn County Court (44 Mo.
510), "It has no power by itself to make independent contracts,
or to become bound in its separate capacity. The law has not
invested it with that power. It forms an integral part of the
county, and the county to a certain extent controls and acts for
it." That the framers of the constitution intended to require
the assent of two-thirds of all the qualified voters of a " county,
city, or town," as a prerequisite to a subscription to a railroad
or other company, and did not intend the same thing with

HARSHMAN V. BATES COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

regard to townships, seems almost absurd. It was undoubtedly
supposed that every case was provided for. The thirteenth
section of article 11 declared that the credit of the State should
not be given or used in aid of corporations; the fourteenth
section then imposes the restriction referred to with regard to
counties, cities, and towns. This specification embraced every
political organization which could be supposed capable of making a subscription. To contend that the mere subdivision of
counties into townships enabled the legislature to defeat the
constitutional provision, is to ignore the manifest intention and
spirit of that instrument. It cannot be possible that it was
intended to restrict the legislature as to counties, and not to restrict it as to mere sectional portions of counties. Had counties
alone been mentioned, there might have been no restriction as
to cities and towns; because they are separate and distinct
organizations, corporate in character, and often clothed with
legislative functions. But in Missouri, in 1865, when the constitution was adopted, a township had no corporate character;
but, as before stated, was a mere geographical section of a
county, partitioned off for purposes of local convenience in the
matter of elections and a few other things. They had no power
to act as corporate bodies. If the legislature could clothe these
geographical portions of a county with power to subscribe to
stock companies at all, it certainly could not set at nought the
constitutional requirement of the people's consent thereto.
The court below did not decide the case on this ground,
probably in consequence of certain decisions of the State
courts which were deemMd inconsistent with it. But we are
not aware of any decisions of those courts which hold that
the constitutional restriction in question could be ignored with
regard to townships, any more than with regard to counties,
cities, or towns.
Another objection to the validity of the subscription for
which the bonds were given in this case is, that the township
voted a subscription to one company and the County Court subscribed to another. This is sought to be justified on the ground
that the former company became consolidated with anoth6r,
thereby forming a third, to whose stock the subscription was
made. This consolidation was effected under a law of Missoui.

Oct. 1875.]

STATE RAILROAD TAx CASES.

authorizing consolidations, and declaring that the company
formed from two companies should be entitled to all the powers,
rights, privileges, and immunities which belong to either; and
it is contended that this provision of the law justified the County
Court in making the subscription, without further authority from
the people of the township. But did not the authority cease
by the extinction of the company voted for ? No subscription
had been made. No vested right had accrued to the company.
The case of the State v. Linn County Court, sup ra, only decides, that, if the County Court refuses to issue bonds after
making a subscription, a mandamus will lie to compel it to
issue them. There the authority had been executed, and a
right had become vested. But, so long as it remains unexecuted,
the occurrence of any event which creates a revocation in law
will extinguish the power. The extinction of the company in
whose favor the subscription was authorized worked such a
revocation. The law authorizing the consolidation of railroad
companies does not change the law of attorney and constituent.
It may transfer the vested rights of one railroad company to
another, upon a consolidation being effected; but it does not
continue in existence powers to subscribe for stock given by
one person to another, which, by the general law, are extinguished by such a change. It does not profess to do so, and
we think that it does not do so by implication.
As sufficient notice of these objections is contained in the
recitals of the bonds themselves to put the holder on inquiry,
we think that there was no error in the judgment of the Circuit
Court.
Judgment affirmed.

STATE RAILROAD TAX CASES.
TAYLOR, COLLECTOR, ET AL., V. SECOR BT AL.
MILLER, COLLECTOR, ET AL., V. JESSUP ET AL.

MILLER, COLLECTOR, ET AL., V. KIDDER ET AL.
. While this court does not lay down any absolute rule limiting the powers a
a court of equity in restraining the collection of taxes, it declares~that it is
essential that every case be brought within some of the recognized rules of
equity jurisdiction, and that neither illegality or irregularity in the proceed-

