Oct. 1875.1

HOFFMAN V. HANCOCK MUT. LIFE ITs.

Co.

161

vency, of inability to collect. They are, however, evidence
only; and the fact may be established as well by other evidence,
among other modes, by an assignment and continued suspen-.
sion of business, or other notorious indications.
Camden v.
Doremis, 3 How. 533; .Reynolds v. Douglas, 12 Pet. 497; 2 Am.
Lead. Cas. 134-136.
We think the liability for the "ultimate redemption" of the
bills, if properly enforced, arises when the bank refuses or
ceases to redeem, and is notoriously and continuously insolvent.
lfimber v. Bank of Fulton, 49 Ga. 419, is a decision directly
in point by the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia.
The case of Pollardv. Bailey, 20 Wall. 520, is an authority
against the maintenance of a separate action by one creditor
who seeks to obtain his entire debt to the possible exclusion of
others similarly situated. The proper proceeding is in equity,
where all the claims can be presented, all the liabilities of the
stockholders ascertained, and a just distribution made.
Judgment affirmed.

HOrA.I" v. JoHN HA cocx MuTuAL LEE IxsuRA Cr,
CoMPANY.
An agreement between the agent of an insurance company and an applicant for
insurance, whereby the former; without authority from the.company, accepted,
by way of satisfaction of a premium payable in money, articles of personal
property, is a fraud upon the company, and no valid contract against it arises
therefrom.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
31r. James A. Garfield, for the appellant, cited Insurance
Company v. Wilkinson, 13 Wall. 222; Mlasters v. Madison
County Alert Insurance Co., 11 Barb. 624; M1ay on Ins., sects.
134, 143; Taylor v. 31erehants' Fire Ins. Co., 9 How. 39012 N. Y. 54; 20 Barb. 468; 2 Ins. Law Jour. 23; 25 Barb.
189; iallock v. Commercial Ins. Co., 2 Dutch. 268; 25 Conn.
207; id. 542; 43 Barb. 351; Cooper v. Pacific, 3 J. C. R. 254
VOL. 11.

11

162

HOFFMAN v. HANCOCK MUT. LIFE INS. 00. [SUp. Ct.

3 Ohio St. 549; 4 id. 353; FraternalLife Ins. Co. v. Applegate, 7 id. 292; Bliss on Life Ins., sect. 317.
fIr. Hf. L. Terrell for the appellee.
MnP. JUSTICE SWAY.LE delivered the opinion of the court.
There is a direct conflict in the testimony of the two prin
cipal witnesses in this case, and the discrepancies are irrecon.
cilable. According to our view, the case must turn upon the
application of legal principles to facts about which there is
no controversy. An elaborate examination of the testimony
is, therefore, unnecessary. A brief statement will be sufficient
for the purposes of this opinion.
Justin E. Thayer was the general agent of the appellee at
Cleveland, Ohio. He was authorized to appoint sub-agents;
and on the 7th of April, 1869, appointed A. C. Goodwin such
agent. This arrangement continued until the 7th of June,
1869. It was then put an end to by the parties; and they
agreed that thereafter Goodwin should act as an insurance
broker, and that he should receive for such applications as he
might bring to Thayer thirty per cent of the first premium
paid for the insurance.
On the 7th of August, 1869, Goodwin gave to Frederick
Hoffman a receipt, signed by Goodwin as agent, setting forth
that he had received from Hoffman $922.57, "being the first
annual premium on an insurance of $8,000 on the life of
Frederick Hoffman, for which an application is this day made
to the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company of
Boston. The said insurance to date from Aug. 7, 1869, subject to the conditions and agreements of the policies of said
company, provided that the said application shall be accepted by the said company, and a policy be by them granted
thereon. The said policy, if issued, to be delivered by me,
when received, to the holder of this receipt, which shall then
be given up. It is expressly agreed and understood, that, if the
above-mentioned application shall be declined by the said company, it shall be deemed that no insurance has been created
by this receipt; but the amount above receipted shall be returned to the holder of this receipt, which shall then be given
up."

Oet. 1875.]

HOFFAriN v.

HANCOCK MUT. LIFE INS.

Co.

163

''he amount of the premium specified was paid by Hoffman
to Goodwin as follows: .$400.00
...........
A horse valued at ....
...
100.00
.......
A sixty-day note to Goodwin .
53.57
A cancelled debt owing by Goodwin to Hoffman
..
369.00
...........
A premium note of ...
$922.57
Go idwin reported the application to Thayer, but said nothing of the receipt. Thayer forwarded the application, and in
due time received the policy. Some time afterwards, Hoffman called for the policy. Thayer demanded the premium.
Hoffman refused to pay it, and produced Goodwin's receipt.
Thayer then, for the first time, learned the existence of the
receipt and the particulars of the alleged payment of the premium. He refused to ratify the transaction.
Ineffectual attempts -were made to sell the horse. Finally
Thayer, to save trouble to his company, agreed, that if Hoffman would take back the horse, and pay in his stead $250 to
the company, the transaction should be closed, and the policy be
delivered. This Hoffman refused to do, and sued the company
in the Court of Common Pleas of Cuyahoga County for what
he had delivered to Goodwin. A verdict was found for the
defendant. He took a new trial under the statute of Ohio.
Upon the re-tial, a verdict was rendered in his favor. The
defendant moved for a new trial, which was granted. In this
condition of things, Hoffman died. The suit abated by his
death, and was not revived. Thereupon his widow, Henrietta
Hoffman, filed this bill. It prayed that the company should
be compelled to deliver the policy to her, and to pay the
amount of the ,insurance-money specified. The policy was
upon what is known as the "endowment plan." It provided
that the amount insured should be paid to Hoffman at the end
of ten years, or to his wife in the event of his death i:4 the
mean time. No part of what was paid by Hoffman to Goodwin ever came into the hands of Thayer or the company, or
inured in any wise to the benefit, of either.
Goodwin testified that his share of the premium was "two
hundred and seventy-six dollars and some cents;" and, further,

164

HOFFMAN V. HANCOCK MUT. LIFE INS. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

that Thayer assented to the transaction in advance, and, with
full knowledge of the facts, ratified it subsequently.
If it be admitted that the facts as to assent and ratification
by Thayer are as stated by Goodwin, - a concession by no
means warranted, in our judgment, by the state of the evidence,
question arises, What is the legal result?
-the
Agencies are special, general, and universal. Story's Agency,
sect. 21. Within the sphere of the authority conferred, the
act of the agent is as binding upon the principal as if it were
done by the principal himself. But it is an elementary principle, applicable alike to all kinds of agency, that whatever an
agent does can be done only in the way usual in the line of business in which he is acting. There is an implication to this effect
arising from the nature of his employment, and it is as effectual
as if it had been expressed in the most formal terms. It is
present whenever his authority is called into activity, and prescribes the manner as well as the limit of its exercise. Upton.
v. Suffolk Co. Mills, 11 Cush. 586; Jones v. Warner, 11 Conn.
48; Story's Agency, sect. 60, and note; 3 Chitt. Law of Com.
& Manuf. 199; U. S. v. Babbit, 1 B1. 61; 1 Pars. on Contr.,
4th ed., pp. 41, 42.
Life insurance is a cash business. Its disbursements are all
in money, and its receipts must necessarily be in the same
medium. This is the universal usage and rule of all such
companies.
Goodwin had settled his own debt to Hoffman of.$53.67, and
had appropriated to himself Hoffman's note of $100.
If he had the right to take his percentage in such way as he
might think proper, this did not justify his taking the horse
at $400. Nor, if Thayer had expressly agreed to take the horse
in payment of the premium pro tanto, could that have given
validity to the transaction. If the agent had authority to take
the horse in question, he could have taken other horses from
Hoffman, and have taken them in all cases. This would have
carried with it the right to establish a stable, employ hands,
and do every thing else necessary to take care of the horses
until they could be sold. The company might thus have found
itself carrying on a business alien to its charter, and in which
it had never thought of embarking.

Oct. 1875.]

'WHITFIELD V.

UNITED STATES.

The exercise of such a power by the agent was liable to two
objections, -it
was ultra vires, and it was a fraud as respects
the company. Hoffman must have known that neither Goodwin nor Thayer had any authority to enter into such an arrangement, and he was a party to the fraud. No valid contract
as to the company could arise from such a transaction. This
objection is fatal to the appellant's case.
It is insisted by the counsel for the appellee, that Hoffman,
by bringing his action at law, repudiated and rescinded the
contract, if there was one; and that the appellant is thereby
estopped from maintaining this bill. Authorities are cited in
support of this proposition. Herringtonv. Hubbard,2 Ill. 569;
.Dalton v. Bentley, 15 id. 420; Smith v. Smith, 19 id. 349;
Cooper v. Brown, 2 McLean, 495; Tilliams v. Washington Life
Ins. (o., 4 Big. Life & Ace. Ins. Rep. 56.
As the point aheady determined is conclusive of the case, it
is unnecessary to consider this subject.
-Decree affirmed.

WHETFIELD V. UN'ITED STATES.
A. sold cotton to the Confederate States, accepted their bonds in payment there
for, but remained in possession of it until its seizure by the agents of the
United States, who sold it, and paid the proceeds into the treasury. Hdd, that
A. cannot recover such proceeds in an action against the United States.

from the Court of Claims.
During the war of the rebellion, Whitfield, a resident of the
State of Alabama, being the owner of a hundred and seventyseven bales of cotton raised by himself, sold it to the Confederate States, agreeing to receive in payment their eight per cent
bonds. In January, 1865, payment of the purchase-price was
made and accepted in bonds of the kind agreed upon, payable
to bearer, and falling due in the years 168, 1871, and 1880.
Whitfield kept the bonds in his possession, and, at the trial of
this case below, produced them in open court. The cotton was
never taken away by the Confederate States authorities, but
remained in his possession until Sept. 1, 1865, when it wa
APPEPA

