TOWN

OF VENICE v.

MURDoCK.

[Sup. Ct.

was to ascertain these facts. On this ground, and this alone, I
concur in the judgment of the court.
Mn. JUSTICE MIIER, MR. JUSTICE
TICE FIELD, dissented.

TowN oF

DAvis, and Mm. Jus-

VENICE v. MURDOCK.

1. An act of the legislature of New York authorized the supervisor of any town
in the county of Cayuga, and the assessors of subh town, who were thereby
appointed to act with the supervisor as commissioners, to borrow money to
the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars to aid in the construction of a
railroad passing through the town, and execute the bonds of the town
therefor. The act, however, provided that the supervisor and commissioners should have no power to issue the bonds until the written assent of twothirds of the resident tax-payers, as appearing on the assessment-roll of such
town next pre.vious to the time when such money may be borrowed, should
have been obtained by such supervisor and commissioners, or some one or
more of them, and filed in the clerk's office of said county, together with
the affidavit of such supervisor or commissioners, or any two of them,
attached to such statement, to the effect that the persons whose written
assents are thereto attached and filed comprise two-thirds of all the resident tax-payers of said town on the assessment-roll of such town next
previous thereto. Subsequently a written assent to the effect required was
filed in that office, the persons who signed it representing themselves to be
such resident tax-payers. Upon this instrument was indorsed the affidavit
of the supervisor and one of the commissioners, that tie persons whosd
names were subscribed to the assent composed two-thirds of all the resident tax-payers of said town. The bonds were issued, signed by the
supervisor and commissioners, reciting that, in pursuance of said act of the
legislature, "and the written assent of two-thirds of the resident tax-payers
of said town obtained and filed in the office of the clerk of the county of
Cayuga," said town promised to pay the sum of money therein named to
bearer. Held, 1. That it was the appointed province of the supervibor and
commissioners to decide the question, whether the condition precedent to the
exercise of their authority had been fulfilled; that they did decide it by
issuing the bonds; and that the recital in the bonds was a declaration of their
decision. 2. That the supervisor and commissioners, who procured what
purported to be the written assent of the tax-payers, had means of knowledge touching the genuineness of the signatures to the paper, which, from
the nature of the case, the purchaser could not have; and that, in a suit by
a bon fide holder of the bonds, the town was estopped from disputing their
validity, and that he was not bound to prove the genuineness of the signatures to the written assent.
2. The decisions of the Court of Appeals of the State of New York on cases
arising upon the same statute, and a similar state of facts, are not conclusive
on this court, as such decisions do not present a case of statutory construction.

Oct. 1875.]

TowN

OF VENICE v. MURDOCK.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
This suit was brought upon certain bonds, each of which is
as follows: -

Nnw YoRK, County of Cayuga:"Seven per cent loan, not exceeding $25,000.
"Be it known that the town of Venice, in the county of Cayuga,
and State of New York, in pursuance of an act of the legislature
of the said State, entitled 'An Act to authorize any town in the
county of Cayuga to borrow money for aiding in the construction
of a railroad or railroads from Lake Ontario to the New York and
Erie or Cayuga and Susquehanna Railroad,' passed April 16,1852,
and for the purpose of aiding the construction of the Lake Ontario,
Auburn, and New York Railroad, owes, and promises to pay, to
"STATE OF

-

-,

or bearer, $1,000, with interest at the rate of seven

per cent, payable semi-annually, on the first days of January and
July in each year, on surrender of the coupons hereto attached, at
the Bank of the State of New York, in the city of New York; the
principal to be reimbursable at the same place at the expiration of
twenty years from the first day of January, 1853.
"In testimony whereof, the supervisor and commissioners of the
town of Venice have, pursuant to the provisions of the act aforesaid, and the written assent of two-thirds of the resident tax-payers
of said town, obtained and filed in the office of the clerk of the
county of Cayuga, hereunto subscribed their names, this second
day of March, . D. 1853.
S upervisor.
"C~,'Irx
Knt,
JONAs

WOO,

Commissioners.'

IscSrH
The following certificate was indorsed thereon:
"CATYUGA

-

COUNTY CLERK'S OFFICE.

"I, Edwin B. Marvine, clerk of the county of Cayuga, hereby
certify that a paper purporting to be the written assent of twothirds of the resident tax-payers of the town of Venice, with the
affidavit required by sect. 1 of the act referred to by its title in the
foregoing bond, has been filed in this office.
"Dated Auburn, Mfay 16, 1853.
"E. B. MAIvINE,
"(Signed)
"Clerk of Cayuga Couuty.'

Mr. Warren T. Worden for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. David Wright, contra.

TowN

OF VENICE V. MURDOCK.

[Sup.L Ot.

MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

It would be worse than useless for us to discuss separately
each of the twenty-two assignments of error filed in this case,
for the questions involved that are of any importance are very
few in number. The leading one is, whether sufficient authority
was shown at the trial for the issue of the town-bonds. The
act of the legislature empowered the supervisor and the railroad commissioners of the town to borrow money, and to execute bonds therefor to an amount not exceeding $25,000. It
directed that all moneys borrowed under its authority should
be paid over to the president and directors of such railroad
company (then organized, or that might thereafter be organized, under the provisions of the general railroad law), as
might be expressed by the written assent of two-thirds of the
resident tax-payers of the town, to be expended by said presi.
dent and directors in grading, constructing, and maintaining a
railroad or railroads passing through the city of Auburn, and
connecting Lake Ontario with the Susquehanna and Cayuga
Railroad, or the New York and Erie Railroad.
The act provided, however, that said supervisor and commissioners should have no power to do any of the acts authorized by the statute until a railroad company had been duly
organized according to the requirements of the general railroad
law, for the purpose of constructing a railroad between the
termini above .mentioned and through the town, and until
the written assent of two-thirds of the resident persons taxed
in said town, as appearing on the assessment-roll of such town
made next previous to the time such money might be borrowed,
should have been obtained by such supervisor and commissioners, or some one or more of them, and filed in the clerk's office
of Cayuga County, together with the affidavit of such supervisor or commissioners, or any two of them, attached to such
statement, to the effect that the persons whose written assents
are thereto attached and filed as aforesaid comprised two-thirds
of all the resident tax-payers of said town on its assessment-roll
next previous thereto.
This act was passed on the sixteenth day of April, 1852; and,
on the 23d of August next following, a railroad company was
organized to construct a railroad through the town between the

Oct. 1875.]

TowN

OF VENICE V. MURDOCK.

termini mentioned in the act. On the 3d of November, 1852,
there was filed in the office of the county-clerk of Cayuga
County a written assent that the supervisor and assessors of
the town (the assessors being railroad commissioners) might
borrow such sum of money as they might deem necessary, not
exceeding $25,000, giving town-bonds therefor; and that the
money might be paid to the railroad company organized to construct the railroad. Two hundred and fifty-nine names were
signed to the assent, the persons signing representing themselves to be resident tax-payers of the town of Venice. Upon
this instrument was indorsed the affidavit of the supervisor and
one of the commissioners that the persons whose names were
subscribed to the assent comprised two-thirds of all the resident
tax-payers of the said town of Venice on its assessment-roll next
previous to the date of the affidavits, -namely, next previous
to Oct. 30, 1852; and, on the 2d of larch next following, the
supervisor and the commissioners executed the bonds now in
suit. Evidence of these facts was given at the trial; but the
defendant objected to the admission in evidence of this assent,
and of the bonds, on the ground that the plaintiff must first
prove that the signatures to the assents were the genuine signatures of those persons whose names purported to be signed.
The Circuit Court overruled this objection; and whether rightfully or not, is the primary and almost the only material question in the case.
It is very obvious that if the act of the legislature which
authorized an issue of bonds in aid of the construction of the
railroad, on the written assent of two-thirds of the resident
tax-payers of the town, intended that the holder of the bonds
should be under obligation to prove by parol evidence that
each of the two hundred and fifty-nine names signed to the
written assent was a genuine signature of the person who boro
the name, the proffered aid to the railroad company was a
delusion. No sane person would have bought a bond with such
an obligation resting upon him whenever he called for payment
of principal or interest. If such was the duty of the holder, it
was always his duty. It could not be performed once for all.
The bonds retained in the hands of the company would have
been no help in the construction of the road. It was only
VOL. I.

32

TowN OF VENICE V. MURDOCK.

[Sup. Ot.

because they could be sold that they were valuable. Only thus
could they be applied to the construction. Yet it is not to be
doubted that the legislature had in view, and intended to give,
substantial aid to the railroad company, if a sufficient number
of the tax-payers assented. They must have contemplated that
the bonds would be offered for sale; and it is not to be believed
that they intended to impose such a clog upon their salableness
as would rest upon it if every person proposing to purchase
was required to inquire of each one whose name appeared to
the assent whether he had in fact signed it.
The act of the legislature manifests a contrary intent. It
created a tribunal to determine whether two-thirds of the
resident tax-payers had assented. That tribunal was the
supervisor and the commissioners, empowered also to execute
the bonds in case such an assent were given. They were the
appointed agents to obtain the assent; and, when acquired,
they, or any two of them, were to make an affidavit that the
persons whose written assents were attached to the statement
comprised two-thirds of the resident tax-payers. That statement, with the affidavits, was required to be filed in the county.clerk's office. All this indicates unmistakably that it was
their appointed province to decide whether the condition precedent to the exercise of their authority to issue the bonds
had been complied with. Commissioners v. Nichols, 14 Ohio,
x. s. 260. They did decide the question before they issued
the bonds. Their statement, verified by their affidavit, filed in
the county-clerk's office, was a decision, and the recital in the
bonds was a declaration of the decision. That such a decision
concludes the town against denying that the condition precedent had been performed, that it relieves the holder of the
bonds from the obligation to look beyond it, is too firmly
settled in this court to admit of question. In Dillon on MAunicipal Corporations, sect. 418, the author, after reviewing the
decisions, states this conclusion: "If, upon a true construction
of the legislative enactment conferring the authority, the corporation, or certain officers, or a given body or tribunal, are
,invested with power to decide whether the condition precedent
has been complied with, then it may well be that their recital
of their determination of a matter in pais, which they are

Oct 1875.1

TOWN

OF VENICE V. MURDOCK.

authorized to decide, will, in favor of the bondholder for value,
Here there was more than a recital.
bind the corporation."
There was, in addition, proof of an actual decision, verified by
oath. Without citing the numerous decisions which sustain
this statement of the law, we refer only to St. 7oseph Township v. RTogers, 16 Wall. 644, and Town of Ooloma v. Eaves,
supra, r. 484, decided at this term, which unequivocally assert it.
And the rule has additional reason in its favor, where, as in
the present case, the authority of the municipal officers to bind
the municipality is made dependent upon a precedent condition of fact; and the fact is not of a nature to be ascertained
by purchasers in the market, to whom it was contemplated the
bonds might be sold. Dillon, in sect. 419, states this as
another exception to the rule that an unauthorized representation by a municipal officer that he has power is not binding on
the corporatioii. His language is, "The only exception to
this rule (the rule above stated), - to wit, where it is the sole
province of the officers who issued the bonds to decide whether
conditions precedent have been complied with,- is where both
parties have not equal means of knowledge as to the extent and
scope of their powers, and where the particular character of
their commission and authority is, from its nature and circumstances, peculiarly known to the officer or agent; in which
case the principal will, or may be, bound by the false repre
sentations of the agent respecting its authority and its extent
and scope." The present is exactly such a case. The townofficers had means of knowledge which the purchaser had not.
They procured the signatures to the assent, and they knew
whether or not they were genuine. They had knowledge,
which, from the nature of the case, the purchaser could not
have.
We are aware that in the State of New York it has been held
adversely to the opinions we have expressed. It was so held
in Starin v. The Town of Genoa, and in Gould v. The Town of
S'terling, 23 N. Y. 439, 456. In the former case the court ruled,
that. under the act of April 16, 1852 (the same act which
conferred powers conditionally upon the supervisors and commissioners of the town of Venice), the onus was on the bondholder to show, in a suit against the town, that two-thirds of

TOWN OF VENICE V. MURDOCK.

[Sup. Ot

the resident taxables had given their written assent to the
creation of the bonds. In the latter case a similar decision was
given when bonds had been issued under another act, much
like the act of 1852, though differing in some material particulars. These decisions are in conflict with the rulings of this
court in Bissell v. Jeffersonville, 24 How. 287; Knox County
v. Aspinwall, 21 id. 539; iMlercer Gounty v. Hackett, 1 Wall.
83, and other cases which we have cited. They are in conflicL
also with decisions in other State courts. Societyfor Savings
v. New London, 29 Conn. 174; Railroad Company v. Evansville, 15 Ind. 395; aomm'rs v. .ihols, 14 Ohio, N. s. 260.
We have carefully considered the reasons given for the judgments in the New-York cases, without being convinced by
them. They ignore the paramount purpose for which the
bonds were authorized by the legislature, and they treat the
written assent of the taxables as the authority to the townshipofficers, when, in fact, the power was given by the legislature, and it was only left to the town to determine by the
action of two-thirds of the resident taxables whether the supervisors and commissioners might act under the power. In
Gould v. Sterling, the legislative act required no affidavit to be
filed with a statement of the assenting tax-payers; and, in
Starin v. Genoa, the affidavit filed was regarded as merely verifying that the persons whose names appeared on the assents
comprised two-thirds of all the resident tax-payers. But it is
obvious, that, if no more than this was meant by the required
affidavit, it was wholly useless; for the assessment-rolls of the
township would have shown as much.
The authority of Starin v. Genoa has not been increased by
the subsequent action of the New-York courts. In !lize People
v. Mead, 24 N. Y. 114, the ruling was followed; but Judge
Denio, who only gave an opinion, claimed that the decision in
Starin v. Genoa had been made on the ground that the bonds
were not issued upon a loan, and that the plaintiff was not a
bona fide holder. The People v. Head came again before the
Court of Appeals in 36 N. Y., p. 224, when Davis, J., said,
"We do not think it seemly to review and reverse the former
judgment of this court in this action upon the same facts;"
and Grover, J., said, "But for the previous adjudication of

Oct. 1875.1

TowN

OF VENICE

v. MUBDOCK.

this court, I should have held that the affidavit filed with the
clerk of Cayuga County, pursuant to the second section of
chap. 375 of the laws of 1852, was conclusive evidence of the
assents of the tax-payers of the town, required by the act in
favor of a bona fide holder of the bonds issued under its provis
i(mns." But assuming that what was ruled in Gould v. Sterling,
and in Starin v. Genoa, is still the doctrine of the New-York
courts, we find ourselves unable to yield to it our assent. It is
against the whole current of our decisions, as well as against
the decisions made in other States; and we think it is not supported by the soundest reasons.
It is argued, however, that the New-York decisions are judicial constructions of a statute of that State; and, therefore,
that they furnish a rule by which we must be guided. The
argument would have force if the decisions, in fact, presented
a clear case of statutory construction; but they do not. They
are not attempts at interpretation. They would apply as well
to the execution of powers or authorities granted by private
persons as they do to the issue of bonds under the statute of
April 16, 1852. They assert general principles, -to wit, that
persons empowered to borrow money and give bonds therefor,
for the purpose of paying it to an improvement company, are
not authorized to deliver the bonds directly to the company; a
doctrine denied in this court, in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, and even in the Court of Appeals of New York.
People v. lead, 24 N. Y. 124; Die Town of 7enice v. Woodruff
et al., 62 id. 462. They assert, also, that, where an authority is
given to an officer to execute and issue bonds (on the assent of
two-thirds of the voters of a town, the assent to be obtained by
the officer and filed in a public office, with an affidavit verifying the assent), the verification amounts to nothing, subserves
no purpose, and that a bona fide holder of the bonds is bound to
prove that the requisite number of voters did actually assent.
They assert this as a general proposition. They do not assert
that the statute so declares, or that such is even its implied
requisition. There is, therefore, before us, no such case of the
construction of a State statute by State courts as requires us
to yield our own convictions of the right, and blindly follow the
lead of others, eminent as we freely coucede they are.

502

TOWN

OF GENOA V.

WOODRUFF ET AL.

[Sup.

Ot.

We have treated the case thus far on the assumption that
the plaintiff below was a bona fide holder of the bonds which
he put in suit. That he was such abundantly appears, and
nothing that was offered at the trial tended in the slightest
degree to show the contrary. Even the railroad company
itself, when it took some of the bonds and gave its stock therefor, could have had no reason to suppose that every condition
precedent to their issue had not been performed; and a subsequent purchaser, at any time prior to the time fixed for their
final payment, must be regarded as a bona fide purchaser.
We have thus considered all the assignments of error that
deserve particular notice, and all that were much pressed at
the argument. The others are without the least merit. In
our opinion, the law and the plainest dictates of justice demand
Judgment affirmed.
an affirmance of this judgment.
MR. .JisTion MILER, MR. JuSTIcE DAvis, and MR. JusTICE FiELD, dissented.
NOTE.- The cases of Town of Venice v. Woodruff et a/., Same v. Watson, Same
v. Edson, error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of New York, were argued at the same time, by the same counsel, as Town

of Venice v. Murdock.
Iu. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases are, in all essential particulars, like the case of Town of Venice v.

Murdock, supra, p. 494; and the judgments are affirmed for the reason given in
that case.

Judgment in each case ajffrmed.

M . JUSTICE MILLER, IR. JUSTICE DAviS, and MR. JUSTICE FIELD, dissented.

TO-wN OF GEN1,OA V. WOODRUFF ET AL.
I. The judgment in this case was affirmed upon the authority of Town of Venice
v. Muirdock, supra, p. 44.

2. The holder of a coupon is entitled to recover interest thereon from the time it
fell due.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
Hr. H. L. Oomstocc for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. -DavidWright, contra.

