Oct. 1875.]

ROCKHOLD v. ROCKHOLD ET AL.

the duty, of the officers and agents of the plaintiff to protect by
their arrangements, as far as possible, the stockholders whose
interests they represented. This was necessarily left to their
judgment and discretion. No question of good faith is involved.
The transaction for all the purposes of this suit must be taken
to have been, in fact, what it purports to be,- a fair and honest compromise of an outstanding claim, with a view to ultimate
protection against an impending loss. As such, we think it
was within the corporate powers of the bank, and that the
Court of Appeals did not err in so holding.
Judgment affirmed.

ROOKHOLD

V. RoCXHO

LD ET AL.

this court has not jurisdiction to re-examine the decree of a State court affirming
the non-liability of a trustee to his cestui que trust for the loss of a fund not
occasioned by his laches or bad faith, but by his payment of the same into
the hands of the receiver of the Confederate States in obedience to a military
order which he could not resist.
MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the State of Tennessee.
T r. William W. Boyce for the defendants in error, in support
of the motion.
1Ir. Henry Cooper, contra.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The object of this suit was to bring the executors of the will
of Thomas Rockhold, deceased, to an account with the plaintiff,
Charles Rockhold, one of the legatees. The defendant, William D. Blevins, one of the executors, answering the bill, said,
in substance, that, contrary to his wishes, he was forced by a
military power that he could not control to receive the sum of
$5,004.74 from one of the debtors of the estate, in Confederate
money, and pay it over to the receiver of the Confederate
States. When this was done, the country was under complete
military rule; and he acted, contrary to his wishes, under Confederate authority, which he was compelled to obey. This, he
VOL. 11.

9

PHILLIPS V. PAYNE.

[Sul). Ot.

claimed, excused him from accountability to the plaintiff for
this amount; and. the Supreme Court of the State has so
decided.
To reverse this decision the present writ of error has been
brought.
We cannot distinguish this case from Beth~el v. Demaret,
10 Wall. 537; .Delmas v. Insurance Company, 14 id. 661; and
Tarver v. Keach, 15 id. 67. The State court has only decided,
that, upon principles of general law, a trustee cannot be held
responsible to his cestui que trust for the loss of a trust-fund, if
the loss has not been occasioned by his own laches or bad faith;
and that the delivery of the trust-fund in this case by the defendant into the hands of the Confederate authorities, under an
order which he dared not disobey, excused him from liability
to. the plaintiff. This is not a Federal question.
WMit of error dismissed.

PHMLIFs v. PAYNE.
Since 1847, pursuant to the act of Congress of the preceding year, the State of
Virginia has been in de facto possession of the county of Alexandria, which,
prior thereto, formed a part of the District of Columbia. The political department of her government has, since that date, uniformly asserted, and the
head of her judicial department expressly affirmed, her title thereto. Congress has, by more than one act, recognized the transfer as a settled fact. A
resident of that county, in a suit to recover the amount by him paid under
protest for taxes upon his property there situate, is, therefore, estopped from
raising the question as to the validity of the retrocession.

ERRo to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Mr. W. 'Willoughby and 1Vr. IS. Shellabargerfor the plaintiff
in error.
Hr..B. T. Daniel, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SwArNs delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought to determine the validity of the retrocession by Congress to the State of Virginia of that part of the
District of Columbia, as originally constituted, which was ceded
by Virginia to the United States. The plaintiff in error was
the plaintiff in the court below. The case upon which'he relies is thus set forth in his declaration: -

