724

HAMMOND ET AL. V. MASON, ETC., ORGAN

0.

[Sup. Ot.

cations to bring themselves within the operation of the Statute
of Limitations; and (2) the title of the city of San Francisco
under the act of Congress, and an assignment of that title to
themselves, pursuant to the provisions of an ordinance of the
city and an act of the legislature of California.
At the trial no question was raised as to the validity or operative effect of the act of Congress. The effort on the part of
the plaintiffs in error seems to have been (1) to establish their
defence under the Statute of Limitations; and (2) to prove such
possession as would, according to their claim, transfer the city
title to them under the operation of the city ordinance and the
act of the legislature.
No Federal question was involved in the decision of the Supreme Court. The city title was not drawn in question. The
real controversy was as to the transfer of that title to the plaintiffs in error; and this did not depend upon the "Constitution,
or any treaty or statute of, or commission held or authority
exercised under, the United States." The case is, therefore, in
all essential particulars, like that of .omie et al. v. Casanova,
91 U. S. 379; and the writ must be
.Dismissedfor want ofjurisdiction.

HA

oND

ET

AL,. v. MAso

.AND

HAimix ORGAN ComPANY.

1. A contract concerning the use of a patented invention bound the "parties and
their legal representatives to the covenants and agreements of the contract." A plea alleged that the defendants "are the legal representatives
and successors and assignees in business and interest" of one of the parties.
The question being on the sufficiency of this plea, Held, that the defendants were the legal representatives of that party within the meaning of the
contract.
2. An allegation that L. refused to manufacture and furnish his invention as he
had agreed to do, is equivalent to an allegation of a demand on him to do
so, and a refusal.
8. Where an inventor signed several different agreements with the same party,
on the same day, for the sale of his invention and for a license to use it, they
must all be construed together; and if it is apparent that he intended to convey the right to use a new invention in connection with former patents,
under any renewal or extension of the former, the grantee or assignee is
protected, though the improvement was never patented, and though the

Oct. 1875.]

HAMMIOND ET AL. V. MASON, ETC., ORGAN

Co.

725

reissued patent was extended afterwards. It is a question of intention to be
gathered from all the instruments of writing in the case.
4. The rights growing out of an invention may be sold, including the right to
use it, though no patent ever issues for it.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
illr. B. E. Valentize for the appellants.
Mr. Frederick 1. Betts, contra.

MR. JUSTICE MrILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
On the eighteenth day of November, 1856, a patent issued
to Lafayette Louis for an invention which produced a tremolo
in the musical notes of melodeons or reed instruments, and
which has since become known as the tremolo attachment.
Louis surrendered and obtained reissues of this patent on the
twenty-sixth day of February, 1867, and again on the twentysixth day of May, 1868; and after his death his wife, who was
his administratrix, obtained in July, 1871, what appears to
have been both a reissue and a renewal for seven years of the
same patent, the whole right in which she assigned to plaintiffs May 30, 1872.
Whereupon the present suit, which is a bill in chancery, is
brought against the defendants, as infringers, for an injunction
and for an account of profits, and other relief.
The defendants, not denying the allegation of the use of the
invention, interpose a plea; and on this plea the case was heard
and a decree rendered dismissing the bill.
The plea sets up the right to use the invention described in
the reissued patent of 1872, in defendants, as shown by five
several written instruments, signed by Louis in his lifetime,
which were made parts of the plea as exhibits A, B, C, D,
and E.
The first of these is a contract between said Louis and Henry
Mason and Emmons Hamlin, for the use by the latter in their
melodeons, of the original invention of Louis, and is dated April
10, 1861. Exhibit B is a copy of an application by Louis for
a patent for an improvement in his tremolo attachment, with
the accompanying specifications, and is dated Sept. 25, 1868.
Exhibits C, D, and E are all dated the same day as this appli-

726

HAMIOND ET AL. V. MASON, ETC., ORGAN Co.

'[Sup. Ct.

cation, and are contracts between said Louis and the Mason
and Hamlin Organ Company for the sale of this improvement,
and its use in connection with the invention already patented
in 1856, and reissued in 1867 and 1868.
Exhibit A is a contract by which Louis agrees to furnish to
Mason and Hamlin his patent tremolo attachment in such numbers and as they may order them, at one dollar for each attachment; and if he fails to furnish them as ordered, Mason and
Hanlin are licensed to make, use, and sell the same in connection with all musical instruments manufactured by them anywhere in the United States. The closing paragraph of this
contract declares that "the said parties mutually bind themselves and their legal representatives to the covenants and
agreements herein contained, to continue in force until the full
expiration of the term for which said letters-patent have been
granted, and during such period as the same may be hereafter
renewed or extended."
It is not alleged that any of the subsequent contracts abrogated this one. It cannot be denied that this contract extends
to the renewal of the patent which was assigned to plaintiffs.
The only question on this branch of the plea is, whether the
Mason and Hamlin Organ Company are entitled to the rights
of Mason and Hamlin.
As the case was decided on the sufficiency of the plea, its
allegations must be taken as true; and all that can be reasonably inferred from those allegations, and from the various
exhibits which it makes, must also be held to be true. The
plea does allege that the defendants are "the legal representatives, and successors, and assignees in business and interest, of
said Mason and Hamlin." This allegation seems to be full
and specific; and the only doubt of its sufficiency arises as to
whether the legal representatives spoken of in the agreement
are or can be others than executors, administrators, or heirs.
Whatever doubt might be entertained on this point, we think
is solved by the fact that Louis, in the subsequent contracts of
1868, seems throughout to treat with the corporation as successors of Mason and Hamlin in the contract of 1861. For in
exhibit E he sells and assigns to the company the exclusive
right to use his supposed improvement under the patent of

mct. 1875.]

HAMM'ND Ef AL. V. MASON,

rC.,

ORGAN

Co. 72T

1856 and all the subsequent reissues, and as this new improvement required the use of the old, he seems here to recognize
the right of the company to control the license he had previously granted to Mason and Hamlin.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the defendant corporation
is entitled to the benefit of the contract between Mason and
Hamlin, covered by exhibit A, and that this gives them the
right to use the attachment under the extension of the original
patenit now assigned to plaintiffs.
It is said that defendants never demanded these attachments,
and, therefore, they had no right to make them.
But the allegation is full that Louis at all tines refused to
manufacture and furnish the attachment to defendants, and we
think under the contract this authorized them to make them
for themselves.
The court below, however, rested its decision on another
ground, which we think equally conclusive.
As we have already said, Louis signed these contracts with
the defendant company on the same day that he made his application for a patent for his improvement in the tremolo. The
supposed improvement consisted in a different construction of
the parts already patented by him. By the first contract
(exhibit C) he sold to the defendant this invention wholly,
and authorized the patent to issue to the company. By the
second (exhibit D), he licensed them to use this new invention
or improvement in connection with his former patents, and in
connection with a patent of his of 1862 for an improvement in
pianos with melodeon attachments; and the company agreed to
pay him a royalty of one dollar each for his new tremolo attachment, at an average of forty attachments per month. The third
cor.tract (exhibit E) provides that if the company fail in securing a patent for the improvement sold to them, referring to his
original patent and reissues, and to his sale of the later invention, and his claim to use it in connection with the old patents,
he grants to the defendants the exclusive right, under the letters-patent already granted, and under any and all reissues
thereof, to make, use, and sell the specific mechanism described
and set forth in the application for the new patent.
Without elaborating this matter, we concur in the opinion

HALL ET AL. V. WEARE.

[Sup. Ct.

of the Circuit Court, that Louis, having sold this invention, and
doubt existing whether the purchasers would obtain a patent
for it, intended by this contract and by exhibit D to secure to
them the benefit of the exclusive use of that invention, in connection with his first mechanism, so long as the latter was protected by any patent founded on his right as inventor. It was
this use for which defendants are sued in this case.
While it is, perhaps, not necessary to decide whether in any
ase a sale of an invention which is never patented carries with
it any thing of value, we are of opinion that the rights growing
out of an invention may be sold, and that in the present case
the sale, with the right to use it in connection with the existing patent and its reissues or renewals, protects defendants from
Decree affirmed.
liability as infringers.

HALL E~T AL. v. WEARtin.
1: In a suit upon acceptances amounting to $4,500, the defendants pleaded as a
set-off the plaintiffs draft for a like sum, which ha? been indorsed to
them by A.. the payee thereof, and protested for non-payment. The plaintiff replied that his draft was given as a part of the proceeds of a discount
by him of A.'s draft for 5,000, which had been procured by A. upon false
and fraudulent representations, and that the consideration for it had wholly
failed, of all which the defendants, when they received it, had notice.
There was evidence at the trial that the plaintiff had, in a suit against A.,
recovered 54,000 on account of the $5,000 draft. The court instructed the
jury that the issues were those tendered by the plaintiff, and that, if either
was found in his favor, he was entitled to recover. Held, that while the instruction, so far as given, was correct, its general effect was misleading, as it
tended to withdraw from the notice of the jury the evidence that the failure
of consideration for the plaintiff's draft was only partial.
2. The decision of a court below, granting counsel the right to open and close
arguments to a jury, will not be reviewed here; nor is a refusal to grant a.
nPw trial assignable in error.

EiRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Emery A. Storrs for the plaintiffs in error.
M'. TV. Penn Clarke, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
This record has been brought up in a shape of which we can

