516

FRANLiN

FiRE INs. Co. V. VAUGHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

it be in conflict with the cases to which we have referred in
this connection, we think the results in the latter were con
trolled by the better reason. '
If a claim like that of the appellees sued at law would have
been barred at law, their claim is barred in equity. This
proposition is too clear to require argument or authorities to
support it.
Decree reversed, with directions to dismiss the bill.

FAxxim Fn-E IxSURANCE C0mrANY v. VAuGHAN.
A. having bought goods at an auction-store, and made part payment therefor,
and having the disposal of them, permitted them to remain there for sale by
and under his direction. He agreed that the first proceeds of the sale, to the
amount of $3,150, should be paid to the vendor; and that the auctioneers, if
they advanced money upon the goods, should retain the possession and control
thereof as security. No advance was made. A. procured an insurance upon
the goods for $2,500, representing that no other person was interested therein,
that they were unincumbered; and that lie estimated their value to be .$12,000.
Part of the goods were sold; and, the remainder having been destroyed by
fire, A. brought suit against the company for the amount of the policy. The
company set up by way of defence, that his statement as to the freedom of the
goods from incumbrance was untrue; that he, knowing of its rule not to insure
goods at more than three-fourths of their value, had overvalued them; and
that they were, in fact, worth but $6,000. The jury found that the value of
the goods destroyed was $7,204. Held, that the facts of the case do not justify the claim that the property was incumbered, or that the title of the insured
therein was not absolute. Held further, that, as nothing appeared at the trial
to show that the estimate of the value of the goods by A. was not an honest
one, the charge of the court below, that such valuation, if made in good faith,
and without intention to mislead or defraud the company, would not defeat
a recovery, was without error.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas.
Mr. U. M. Bose for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Albert Pike, contra.
JusTICE HtNT delivered the opinion of the court.
In seeking to recover the amount insured upon his goods

MR.

Oct. 1875.]

FRANKLIN FIRE INS. CO. V. VAUGHAN.

517

destroyed by fire, the insured was bound to prove only his
policy, his loss, and the service of preliminary proofs. This
proof he made.
The insurance was for $2,500. The jury found the value of
the goods destroyed by fire to be $7,204.
Defence is made on the ground of a violation of that condition of the policy which provides, that, "if the interest of the
assured in the property is not absolute, it must be so expressed
in the policy, otherwise the insurance shall be void," and of a
misstatement in answering that there was no incumbrance on
the property insured.
The insured had bought the goods of one Flowers. They
were in the store of Harris & Co., auctioneers, at the time of
the purchase, and were left there for sale by and under the
direction of Vaughan, the purchaser. It was agreed by him
that the first proceeds of the sale should be paid to the vendor
to the amount of $3,150; and, if the auctioneers advanced
money upon the stock, they were authorized to retain the possession and control of the goods as their security. There is no
evidence or claim that any such advance was made.
We see nothing in the writing produced to justify the claim
that the property insured was incumbered, or that any person
other than the vendee had any interest in it, or that the title
of the insured was not absolute. The property was sold to the
insured in April, 1873; and the evidence showed, that, when so
sold, it was in the auction store of Harris & Co. for sale. The
I goods remaining there, the purchaser took possession and proceeded to niake sale of them, as was also proved on the trial.
The writing produced contains no limitation of Vaughan's title,
and expresses no right of possession or control in any person
other than himself, except in the event that Harris & Co.
should make advances. The paper stipulated that Harris & Co.
might hold the possession and control of the goods as seourity
for their advances. There was no such stipulation in favor of
the vendor. He did not profess to retain any right in. the
goods, or any control over their possession. So far as he was
concerned, Vaughan had the full power of disposition. His
claim was upon the money'realized from the sales. To bring
his claim into enjoyment, it was necessary -that sales should

518

FRANKLIN FIRE INS.

CO. v. VAUGHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

first be made, and Vaughan, and Harris & Co. as the agents
of Vaughan, -ere intrusted with this duty. The goods were,
and the proceeds of the goods when sold would be, the property
of Vaughan. His agreement as to the proceeds did not affect
his title or estate. While it is possible, that, in the event of a
fraudulent combination to defraud him, Flowers might have
invoked the aid of a court of equity in securing the proceeds
of the sales, there is nothing to affect the present title of his
vendee. It may be likened to the familiar case of an insurance
upon a house in the name of the mortgagor, which he promises
to hold for the benefit of the mortgagee. While, under certain
circumstances, equity would interfere in behalf of the mortgagee, it can scarcely be doubted, that, until the occurrence of
such circumstances, the mortgagor is the owner of the policy
and its fruits.
A defence was also sought to be made on the ground of the
over-valuation of the goods by Vaughan when he obtained the
insurance. The policy was preceded by an application in this
form "Application of James L. Vaughan for insurance, &c., in the
sum of $6,000, on the property specified; the value of the property being estimated by the applicant.
Valuation.

Sum to be insured.

Rate.

On stock, &c., $12,000.

$6,000.

8-10 of 2 per cent."

Which statement was signed by Vaughan, and agreed to be true,
so far as it was known to him, and so far as it was material to
the risk. This was on the 23d of March, 1873. The fire occurred on the fifth day of May, 1873.
The sale of goods after the purchase, and before the fire,
amounted to the sum of $653. The jury found the goods
which were actually destroyed to have been worth $7,204.
These two sums show the value of the goods; to wit, $7,857.
The value of the goods was to be estimated by the applicant.
He gave this estimate at $12,000; and there is not the slightest
evidence that such was not his honest estimate of their value.
Insurance agents, as well as other persons, know with what
partiality most men estimate their property, and how much
more valuable they esteem it when their own than when it is

Oct. 1875.]

FRANKLIN FIRE INS. CO. V. VAUGHAN.

their neighbor's. They do not object to this principle when
the premiums are received for issuing policies. It is only when
losses occur that they seek to apply the more rigid test of
actual value.
The value of a stock of goods is not always, nor usually, indicated by its purchase price. Such goods are often bought in
the country to sell at retail and at a profit. What may be
expected to be obtained for them under such circumstances
may reasonably be considered their value; and that the owner
and purchaser should estimate them at much more than he gave
for them, and should hope and expect to make large gains and
profits upon their sale, was, no doubt, understood by the agent
making the insurance.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error, in his brief, concedes
that it is not every over-valuation which will avoid a policy; but
he objects to the charge of the judge, that, to produce this result, the over-valuation must be "grossly enormously" in excess
of the truth. It is hardly just to the judge holding the circuit, or to the claimant, that the charge should rest upon this
statement. The judge undoubtedly said, "If the valuation
was grossly enormously in excess of the value of the goods,
then the burden is cast on the plaintiff of showing that he
acted honestly and in good faith in making the valuation, and
that it was not made for any fraudulent purpose or with any
fraudulent intention, but was an honest and unintentional
error." He did not, however, say that nothing less than this
would have that effect. He said also, "The law exacts the
utmost good faith in contracts of insurance, both on the part of
the insured and the insurer; and a knowing and wilful overvaluation of property by the insured, with a view and purpose of
obtaining insurance thereon for a greater sum than could otherwise be obtained, is a fraud upon the insurance company that
avoids the policy.... It is a question of good faith and honest
intention on the part of the insured; and though he may have
put a value on his property greatly in excess of its cash value in
the market, yet if he did so in the honest belief that the property was worth the valuation put upon it, and the excessive
valuation was made in good faith, and not intended to mislead
or defraud the insurance company, then such over-valuation is
not a fraudulent over-valuation that will defeat a recovery."

UNITED STATES

v.

DIEKELMIAN.

[Slip. Ct.

Looking at the whole charge, as we must do, we think the
jury were correctly instructed, and that there was nothing said
to which the company can properly except.

Judgment affirmed.

Uimi'_D STATES v. Drn

wi x.

1. Unless treaty stipulations provide otherwise, a merchant vessel of one country visiting the ports of another for the purpose of trade, is, so long as she
remains, subject to the laws which govern them.
2. Where, in time of war, a foreign vessel, availing herself of a proclamation of
the President of May 12, 1862, entered the port of New Orleans, the
blockade of which was not removed, but only relaxed in the interests of
commerce, she thereby assented to the conditions imposed by such proclamation that she should not take out goods contraband of war, nor depart
until cleared by the collector of customs according to law.
. As New Orleans was then governed by martial law, a subject of a foreign
power entering that port with his vessel under the special license of the
proclamation became entitled to the same rights and privileges accorded
under the same circumstances to loyal citizens of the United States. Restrictions placed upon them operated equally upon him.
4. Money, silver-plate, and bullion, when destined for hostile use or for the
purchase of hostile supplies, are contraband of war. In this case, the determination of the question whether such articles, part of the outward-bound
cargo of the vessel, were contraband, devolved upon the commanding general at New Orleans. Believing them to be so, he, in discharge of his duty,
ordered them to be removed from her, and her clearance to be withheld
until his order should be complied with.
6. Where the detention of the vessel in port was caused by her resistance to
the orders of the properly constituted authorities whom she was bound to
obey, she preferring such detention to a clearance upon the conditions
imposed, - Held, that her owner, a subject of Prussia, is not "entitled to
any damages " against the United States, under the law of nations or the
treaty with that power. 8 Stat. 384.

from the Court of Claims.
1r. Assistant Attorney- aeneral Edwin B. Smith for the
appellant.
Mr.J. D. McPherson, contra.
APPEAL

MR. Cri
JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This suit was brought in the Court of Claims under the au.

