502

TOWN

OF GENOA V.

WOODRUFF ET AL.

[Sup.

Ot.

We have treated the case thus far on the assumption that
the plaintiff below was a bona fide holder of the bonds which
he put in suit. That he was such abundantly appears, and
nothing that was offered at the trial tended in the slightest
degree to show the contrary. Even the railroad company
itself, when it took some of the bonds and gave its stock therefor, could have had no reason to suppose that every condition
precedent to their issue had not been performed; and a subsequent purchaser, at any time prior to the time fixed for their
final payment, must be regarded as a bona fide purchaser.
We have thus considered all the assignments of error that
deserve particular notice, and all that were much pressed at
the argument. The others are without the least merit. In
our opinion, the law and the plainest dictates of justice demand
Judgment affirmed.
an affirmance of this judgment.
MR. .JisTion MILER, MR. JuSTIcE DAvis, and MR. JusTICE FiELD, dissented.
NOTE.- The cases of Town of Venice v. Woodruff et a/., Same v. Watson, Same
v. Edson, error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of New York, were argued at the same time, by the same counsel, as Town

of Venice v. Murdock.
Iu. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases are, in all essential particulars, like the case of Town of Venice v.

Murdock, supra, p. 494; and the judgments are affirmed for the reason given in
that case.

Judgment in each case ajffrmed.

M . JUSTICE MILLER, IR. JUSTICE DAviS, and MR. JUSTICE FIELD, dissented.

TO-wN OF GEN1,OA V. WOODRUFF ET AL.
I. The judgment in this case was affirmed upon the authority of Town of Venice
v. Muirdock, supra, p. 44.

2. The holder of a coupon is entitled to recover interest thereon from the time it
fell due.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
Hr. H. L. Oomstocc for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. -DavidWright, contra.

