TOWN OF COLOITA v. EAVES.

[Sup. ot.

Tow-T or CoLomA. v. EAVES.
Where, by legislative enactment, authority has been given to a municipality, or
to its officers, to subscribe for the stock of a railroad company, and to issue
municipal bonds in payment, but only on some precedent condition, such as
a popular vote favoring the subscription, and where it may be gathered from
the enactment that the officers of the municipality were invested with power
to decide whether that condition has been complied with, their recital that it
has been, made in the bonds issued by them and held by a bona fide purchaser,
is conclusive of the fact, and binding upon the municipality; for the recital is
itself a decision of the fact by the appointed tribunal.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
Assumpsit brought by the plaintiff below to recover the
amount due on the coupons attached to certain bonds, purporting to have been issued by the town of Coloma, through its
proper officers, to the Chicago and Rock River Railroad Company, in payment of a subscription of $50,000 by the town to
.said company. The form of the bond is as follows: "UNITED
"COUNTY OF WHITESIDE,

STATES OF

A=micA.

[$1,000.

"State of Illinois, Town of Coloma:-

"Know all men by these presents, That the township of Coloma,
in the county of Whiteside, and State of Illinois, acknowledges
itself to owe and be indebted to the Chicago and Rock River Railroad Company, or bearer, in the sum of $1,000, lawful money of the
United States; which sum the said town of Coloma promises to pay
to the Chicago and Rock River Railroad Company, or the bearer
hereof, on the first day of July, 1881, at the office of the treasurer
of the county of Whiteside aforesaid, in the State of Illinois, on
the presentation of this bond, with interest thereon from the first
day of January, 1872, at the rate of ten per centum per annum,
payable annually at the office of the treasurer of the county of
Whiteside aforesaid, on the presentation and surrender of the
annexed coupons.
"[U. S. $5 revenue-stamp.]

"This bond is issued under and by virtue of a law of the State
of Illinois entitled 'An Act to incorporate the Chicago and Rock
River Railroad Company,' approved March 24, 1869, and in accordance with a vote of the electors of said township of Coloma,

O0e. 1875.]

TowN oF COLOMfA v. EAVES.

at a regular election held July 28, 1869, in accordance with said
law, and under a law of the State of Illinois entitled 'An Act to
fund and provide for the paying of the railroad debts of counties,
townships, cities, and towns,' in force April 16, 1869; and, when
this bond is registered in the State auditor's office of the State of
Illinois, the principal and interest will be paid by the State treasurer, as provided by said last-mentioned law.
"In witness whereof, the supervisor and town-clerk of said town
have hereunto set their hands and seals this first day of January,
A.D. 1872.

"(Signed)
"(Signed)

NI. R. ADums, Suvervisor.
J. D. DAvIs, Touwn- Clerk.

[SEAL.]

[SEAL.]"

Recovery was resisted by the town, mainly upon the alleged
ground of a want of power in the officers of the town to issue
the bonds, because the legal voters of the town had not been
notified to vote upon the question of the town's making the
subscription in question.
On the trial of the case, judgment was rendered for the
plaintiff for the amount of the coupons, and interest after they
were due.
Mr. . H. Osborn for plaintiff.
Mfr. rT.Grant, contra.
R. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears by the record that the plaintiff is a bona fide
holder and owner of the coupons upon which the suit is
founded, having obtained them before they were due, and for a
valuable consideration paid. The bonds to which the coupons
were attached were given in payment of a subscription of
$50,000 to the capital stock of the Chicago and Rock River
Railroad Company, for which the town received in return
certificates of five hundred shares, of $100 each, in the stock
of the company. That stock the town retains, but it resists
the payment of the bonds, and of the coupons attached to
them, alleging that they were issued without lawful authority.
Saying nothing at present of the dishonesty of such a
defence while the c6nsideration for which the bonds were
given is retained, we come at once to the question, whether
authority was shown for the stock subscription, and for the

TOWN OF OLOMA

V.

EAVES.

[Sup. Ct

consequent issue of the bonds. At the outset, it is to be observed that the question is not between the town and its own
agents: it is rather between the town and a person claiming
through the action of its agents. The rights of the town as
against its agents may be very different from its rights as
against parties who have honestly dealt with its agents as such,
on the faith of their apparent authority.
By an act of the legislature of Illinois, the Chicago and
Rock River Railroad Company was incorporated with power
to build and operate a railroad from Rock Falls on Rock River
to Chicago, a distance of about one hundred and thirty miles.
The tenth section of the act enacted, that, "to aid in the construction of said road, any incorporated city, town, or township, organized under the township organization laws of the
State, along or near the route of said road, might subscribe to
the capital stock of said company." That the town of Coloma
was one of the municipal divisions empowered by this section
to subscribe fully appears, and also that the railroad was built
into the town before the bonds were issued. But it is upon
the eleventh section of the act that the defendant relies. That
section is as follows: "No such subscription shall be made until the question has been
submitted to the legal voters of said city, town, or township, in
which the subscription is proposed to be made. And the clerk of
such city, town, or township, is hereby required, upon presentation
of a petition signed by at least ten citizens who are legal voters
and tax-payers in such city, town, or township, stating the amount
proposed to be subscribed, to post up notices in three public places
in each town or township; which notices shall be posted not less
than thirty days prior to holding such election, notifying the legal
voters of such town or township to meet at the usual places of
holding elections in such town or township, for the purpose of
voting for or against such subscriptions. If it shall appear that
a majority of all the legal voters of such city, town, or township,
voting at such election, have voted 'for subscription,' it shall be
the duty of the president of the board of trustees, or other executive officer of such town, and of the sipervisor in townships,
to subscribe to the capital stock of said railroad company, in the
name of such city, town, or township, the amount so voted to
be subscribed, and to receive from such company the proper

Oct. 1875.]

TOWN

OP COLOMA V. EAVES.

487

certificates therefor. He shall also execute to said company, in
the name of such city, town, or township, bonds bearing interest
at ten per cent per annum, which bonds shall run for a term
of not more than twenty years, and the interest on the same
shall be made payable annually; and which said bonds shall be
signed by such president or supervisor or other executive officer,
and be attested by the clerk of the city, town, or township, in
whose name the bonds are issued."
Sect. 12 provides, "It shall be the duty of the clerk of any such
city, town, or township, in which a vote shall be given in favor of
subscriptions, within ten days tnereafter, to transmit to the countyclerk of their counties a transcript or statement of the vote given,
and the amount so voted to be subscribed, and the rate of interest
to be paid."
Most of these provisions are merely directory. But conceding, as we do, that the authority to make the subscription was,
by the eleventh section of the act, made dependent upon the
result of the submission of the question, whether the town
would subscribe, to a popular vote of the township, and upon
the approval of the subscription by a majority of the legal
voters of the town voting at the election, a preliminary inquiry
must be, How is it to be ascertained whether the directions
have been followed? whether there has been any popular vote,
or whether a majority of the legal voters present at the election did, in fact, vote in favor of a subscription? Is the ascertainment of these things to be before the subscription is made,
and before the bonds are issued? or must it be after the bonds
have been sold, and be renewed every time a claim is made for
the payment of a bond or a coupon? The latter appears to us
inconsistent with any reasonable construction of the statute.
Its avowed purpose was to aid the building of' the railroad by
placing in the hands of the railroad company the bonds of
assenting municipalities. These bonds were intended for sale;
and it was rationally to be expected that they would be put
upon distant markets. It must have been considered, that, the
higher the lrice obtained for them, the more advantageous
would it be for the company, and for the cities and towns
which gave the bonds in exchange for capital stock. Every
thing that tended to depress the market-value was adverse to

TOWN OF COLOTfA V. EAVES.

[Sup. Ct

the object the legislature had in view. It could not have been
overlooked that their market-value would be disastrously
affected if the distant purchasers were under obligation to
inquire before their purchase, or whenever they demanded payment of principal or interest, whether certain contingencies of
fact had happened before the bonds were issued, - contingencies
the happening of which it would be almost impossible for them
in many cases to ascertain with certainty. Imposing such an
obligation upon the purchasers would tend to defeat the primary purpose the legislature had in view; namely, aid in the
construction of the road. Such an interpretation ought not to
be given to the statute, if it can reasonably be avoided; and
we think it may be avoided.
At some time or other, it is to be ascertained whether the
directions of the act have been followed; whether there was
any popular vote; or whether a majority of the legal voters
present at the election did, in fact, vote in favor of the subscription. The duty of ascertaining was plainly intended to
be vested somewhere, and once for all; and the only persons
spoken of who have any duties to perform respecting the election, and action consequent upon it, are the town-clerk and the
supervisor or other executive officer of the city or town. It is
a fair presumption, therefore, that the legislature intended
that those officers, or one of them at least, should determine
whether the requirements of the act prior to a subscription
to the stock of a railroad company had been met. This presumption is strengthened by the provisions of the twelfth section, which make it the duty of the clerk to transmit to the
county-clerk a transcript or statement, verified by his oath, of
the vote given, with other particulars, in case a subscription
has been voted. 'How is he to perform this duty if he is not
to conduct the election, and to determine what the voters have
decided" If, therefore, there could be any obligation resting
on persons proposing to purchase the bonds purporting to be
issued under such legislative authority, and in accordance with
a popular vote, to inquire whether the provisions of the statute
had been followed, or whether the conditions precedent to their
lawful issue had been complied with, the inquiry must be
addressed to the town-clerk or executive officer of the munici-

Oct. 1875.]

TowN

oF COLONrA V. EAVES.

pality, - to the very person whose duty it was to ascertain and
decide what were the facts. The more the statute is examined, the more evident does this become. The eleventh section
(quoted above) declared, that if it should appear that a majority of the legal voters of the city, town, or township, voting,
had voted "for subscription," the executive officer and clerk
should subscribe and execute bonds. "If it should appear,"
said the act. Appear when? Why, plainly, before the sub
scription was made and the bonds were executed; not afterwards. Appear to whom? In regard to this, there can be no
doubt. Manifestly not to a court, after the bonds have been
put on the market and sold, and when payment is called for, but
if it shall appear to the persons whose province it was made to
ascertain what had been done preparatory to their own action,
and whose duty it was to issue the bonds if the vote appeared
to them to justify such action under the law. These persons
were the supervisor and town-clerk. Their right to issue the
bonds was made dependent upon the appearance to them of the
performance of the conditions precedent. It certainly devolved
upon some person or persons to decide this preliminary question;
and there can be no doubt who was intended by the law to be
the arbiter. In Commissioners v. Nichols, 14 Ohio St. 260, it
was said that "a statute, in providing that county bonds should
not be delivered by the commissioners until a sufficient sum had
been provided by stock-subscriptions, or otherwise, to complete
a certain railroad, and imposing upon them the duty of delivering the bonds when such provision had been made, without indicating any person or tribunal to determine that fact, necessarily
delegates that power to the commissioners; and, if delivered
improvidently, the bonds will not be invalidated."
In the present case, the person or persons whose duty it was
to determine whether the statutory requisites to a subscription
and to an authorized issue of the bonds had been performed
were those whose duty it was also to issue the bonds in the
event of such performance. The statute required the supervisor or other executive officer not only to subscribe for- the
stock, but also, in conjunction with the clerk, to execute bonds
to the railroad company in the name of the town for the amount
of the subscription. The bonds were required to be signed by

TowiNz OF

COLOMA v. EAVES.

[Sup. Ct.

the supervisor or other executive officer, and to be attested by
the clerk. They were so executed. The supervisor and the
clerk signed them; and they were registered in the office of the
auditor of the State, in accordance with an act, requiring that,
precedent to their registration, the supervisor must certify under oath to the auditor that all the preliminary conditions to
their issue required by the law had been complied with. On
each bond the auditor certified the registry. It was only after
this that they were issued. And the bonds themselves recite
that they "are issued under and by virtue of the act incorporating the railroad company," approved March 24, 1869, "and
in accordance with the vote of the electors of said township of
Coloma, at a regular election held July 28,1869, in accordance
with said law." After all this, it is not an open question, as
between a bona fide holder of the bonds and the township,
whether all the prerequisites to their issue had been complied
with. Apart from and beyond the reasonable presumption
that the officers of the law, the township-officers, discharged
their duty, the matter has passed into judgment. The persons
appointed to decide whether the necessary prerequisites to their
issue had been completed have decided, and certified their decision. They have declared the contingency to have happened,
on the occurrence of which the authority to issue the bonds
was complete. Their recitals are such a decision; and beyond
those a bona fide purchaser is not bound to look for evidence of
the existence of things in pais. He is bound to know the law
conferring upon the municipality power to give the bonds on
the happening of a contingency; but whether that has happened or not is a question of fact, the decision of which is by
the law confided to others,- to those most competent to decide
it, - and which the purchaser is, in general, in no condition to
decide for himself.
This we understand to be the settled doctrine of this court.
Indeed, some of our decisions have gone farther. In the leading case of Knox v. Aspinwall, 21 How. 544, the decision was
rested upon two grounds. One of them was that the mere
issue of the bonds, containing a recital that they were issued
under and in pursuance of the legislative act, was a sufficient
basis for an assuinption by the purchaser that the conditions

Oct. 1876.]

TowN

OF COLOMA V.

EAVES.

on which the county (in that case) was authorized to issue
them had been complied with; and it was said that the purchaser
was not bound to look farther for evidence of such compliance,
though the recital did not affirm it. This position was supported by reference to Thte Boyal British Bank v. Torquand,
6 Ell. & B1. 327, a case in the Exchequer Chamber, which
fully sustains it, and the decision in which was concurred in by
all the judges. This position taken in Knox v. AspinwalZ has
been more than once reaffirmed in this court. It was in Horan
v. Miarmi County, 2 Black, 732; in Mercer County v. Hlackett,
1 Wall. 83; in Supervisors v. Schenk, 5 id. 784; and in Mayor
v. l.Jus,,ative, 1 id. 384. It has never been overruled; and,
whateter doubts may have been suggested respecting its correctness to the full extent to which it has sometimes been
announced, there should be no doubt of the entire correctness
of the other rule asserted in .Knox v. Aspinwall. That, we
think, has been so firmly seated in reason and authority, that it
cannot be shaken. What it is has been well stated in sect. 419
of Dillon on Munic. Corp. After a review of the decisions of
this court, the author remarks, "If, upon a true construction
of the legislative enactment conferring the authority (viz., to
issue municipal bonds upon certain conditions), the corporation,
or certain officers, or a given body or tribunal, are invested
with power to decide whether the condition precedent has been
complied with, then it may well be that their determination of
a matter in pais, which they are authorized to decide, will, in
favor of the bondholder for value, bind the corporation." This
is a very cautious statement of the doctrine. It may be restated
in a slightly different form. Where legislative authority has
been given to a municipality, or to its officers, to subscribe for
the stock of a railroad company, and to issue municipal bonds
in payment, but only on some precedent condition, such as a
popular vote favoring the subscription, and where it may be
gathered from the legislative enactment that the officers of the
municipality were invested with power to decide whether the
condition precedent has been complied with, their recital that
it has been, made in the bonds issued by them and held by a
hona fide purchaser, is conclusive of the fact, and binding upon
the municipality; for the 'ecital is itself a decision of the fact

TowN OF COLOMA V. EAVES.

[Sup. Ct.

by the appointed tribunal. In Bissell v. Jeffersonville, 24 How.
287, it appeared that the common council of the city were
authorized by the legislature to subscribe for stock in a railroad
company, and to issue bonds for the subscription, on the petition of three-fourths of the legal voters of the city. The
council adopted a resolution to subscribe, reciting in the preamble that more than three-fourths of the legal voters had
petitioned for it, and authorized the mayor and city-clerk to
sign and deliver bonds for the sum subscribed. The bonds
recited that they were issued by authority of the common
council, and that three-fourths of the legal voters had petitioned for the same, as required by the charter. In a suit subsequently brought by an innocent holder for value to recover
the amount of unpaid coupons for interest, it was held inadmissible for the defendants to show that three-fourths of the legal
voters of the city had not signed the petition for the stock subscription. A similar ruling was made in an Jfostrop v. Madison City, 1 Wall. 291, and in Ytercer County v. Hackett, id. 83.
The same principle has recently been asserted in this court
after very grave consideration, and it must be considered as
settled. In St. Joseph's Township v. Rogers, 16 Wall. 644, it is
stated thus:"Power to issue bonds to aid in the construction of a railroad
is frequently conferred upon a municipality in a special manner, or
subject to certain regulations, conditions, or qualifications ; but if it
appears by their recitals that the bonds were issued in conformity
with these regulations, and pursuant to those conditions and qualifications, proof that any or all of these recitals were incorrect will
not constitute a defence for the corporation in a suit on the bonds or
coupons, if it appears that it was the sole province of the municipal
officers who executed the bonds to decide whether or not there had
been an antecedent compliance with the regulation, condition, or
qualification, which it is alleged was not fulfilled."
There is nothing in the case of Marsh v. Fulton, 10 Wall.
675, to which we have been referred, at all inconsistent with
the rule thus asserted. In that case, there were no recitals in
the bonds; and there was no decision that the conditions precedent to a subscription, or to the gift of authority to subscribe,
had been performed. The question was, therefore, open.

Oct. 1875.]

TowN

OF COLOMA V. EAVES.

What we have said disposes of the present case without the
necessity of particular consideration of the matters urged in the
argument of the defendant below. It was inadmissible to show
what was attempted to be shown; and, even if it had been
admissible, the effort to assimilate the case to 11farsh v. -Fulton
would fail. There the subscription was for the stock of a different corporation from that for which the people had voted:
Judgment affirmed.
here it was not.
M. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the following concurring
opinion I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case, so far as
it may be construed to reaffirm the first point asserted in the
ease of Knox County v. Aspinwall; to wit, that the mere execution of a bond by officers charged with the duty of ascertaining whether a condition precedent has been performed is
conclusive proof of its performance. If, when the law requires
a vote of tax-payers, before bonds can be issued, the supervisor
of a township, or the judge of probate of a county, or other
')fficer or magistrate, is the officer designated to ascertain
whether such vote has been given, and is also the proper officer
to execute, and who does execute, the bonds, and if the bonds
themselves contain a statement or recital that such vote has
been given, then the bona fide purchaser of the bonds need go
back no farther. He has a right to rely on the statement as a
determination of the question. But a mere execution and
issue of the bonds without such recital is not, in my judgment,
conclusive. It may be prima facie sufficient; but the contrary
may be shown. This seems to me to be the true distinction to
be taken on this subject; and I do not think that the contrary
has ever been decided by this court. There have been various
dicta to the contrary; but the cases, when carefully examined,
will be found to have had all the prerequisites necessary to
sustain the bonds, according to my view of the case. '1his
view was distinctly announced by this court in the case of
Lynde v. The County of Winnebago, 16 Wall. 13. In the case
now under consideration, there is a sufficient recital in the bond
to show that the proper election was held and the proper vote
given; and the bond was executed by the officers whose duty it

TOWN

OF VENICE v.

MURDoCK.

[Sup. Ct.

was to ascertain these facts. On this ground, and this alone, I
concur in the judgment of the court.
Mn. JUSTICE MIIER, MR. JUSTICE
TICE FIELD, dissented.

TowN oF

DAvis, and Mm. Jus-

VENICE v. MURDOCK.

1. An act of the legislature of New York authorized the supervisor of any town
in the county of Cayuga, and the assessors of subh town, who were thereby
appointed to act with the supervisor as commissioners, to borrow money to
the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars to aid in the construction of a
railroad passing through the town, and execute the bonds of the town
therefor. The act, however, provided that the supervisor and commissioners should have no power to issue the bonds until the written assent of twothirds of the resident tax-payers, as appearing on the assessment-roll of such
town next pre.vious to the time when such money may be borrowed, should
have been obtained by such supervisor and commissioners, or some one or
more of them, and filed in the clerk's office of said county, together with
the affidavit of such supervisor or commissioners, or any two of them,
attached to such statement, to the effect that the persons whose written
assents are thereto attached and filed comprise two-thirds of all the resident tax-payers of said town on the assessment-roll of such town next
previous thereto. Subsequently a written assent to the effect required was
filed in that office, the persons who signed it representing themselves to be
such resident tax-payers. Upon this instrument was indorsed the affidavit
of the supervisor and one of the commissioners, that tie persons whosd
names were subscribed to the assent composed two-thirds of all the resident tax-payers of said town. The bonds were issued, signed by the
supervisor and commissioners, reciting that, in pursuance of said act of the
legislature, "and the written assent of two-thirds of the resident tax-payers
of said town obtained and filed in the office of the clerk of the county of
Cayuga," said town promised to pay the sum of money therein named to
bearer. Held, 1. That it was the appointed province of the supervibor and
commissioners to decide the question, whether the condition precedent to the
exercise of their authority had been fulfilled; that they did decide it by
issuing the bonds; and that the recital in the bonds was a declaration of their
decision. 2. That the supervisor and commissioners, who procured what
purported to be the written assent of the tax-payers, had means of knowledge touching the genuineness of the signatures to the paper, which, from
the nature of the case, the purchaser could not have; and that, in a suit by
a bon fide holder of the bonds, the town was estopped from disputing their
validity, and that he was not bound to prove the genuineness of the signatures to the written assent.
2. The decisions of the Court of Appeals of the State of New York on cases
arising upon the same statute, and a similar state of facts, are not conclusive
on this court, as such decisions do not present a case of statutory construction.

