CITY OF ST. Louis v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

(3.) That the claimants, having acquiesced for fifteen years in
the decree of confirmation, are without legal remedy. (4.) That
they are not entitled to the redress claimed under any act of
Congress now in force.
Tested by these considerations, it is clear that there is no
error.
Decree affirmed.

CITY OF ST. Louis v. UNITED STATES.
The deed of conveyance executed to the United States on the twenty-fifth day
of October, 1854, by the city of Carondelet, of a part of the commons of
Carondelet upon which Jefferson Barracks are situate, having been based
upon an equitable compromise of a long-pending and doubtful question of
title, is valid.

ApPEAT :from the Court of Claims.
Mr. Montgomery Blair for the appellants.
Mr. Solicitor-General .Phillips, contra.
Mr. JusTICE M=lER delivered the opinion of the court.
The subject of this controversy is the title to the land known
as Jefferson Barracks, consisting of about seventeen hundred
acres, five miles below the city of St. Louis. It lies within the
lines of a survey of the commons of Carondelet, containing a
much larger quantity, -nearly ten thousand acres.
The present suit was instituted in the Court of Claims, in
1859, by the city of Carondelet. As the jurisdiction of that court
was doubted, Congress, by the act of 1873 (17 U. S. Stat. 621),
specially authorized it to entertain jurisdiction of the controversy. The city of Carondelet having become merged in the
city of St. Louis by an act of the legislature of Missouri, the
latter city was substituted as plaintiff.
A deed conveying the land in controversy to the United
States was made by the city of Carondelet on the twenty-fifth
day of October, 1854; and it is not controverted that the
authority under which this was done was sufficient. If this
deed be held to be otherwise valid, it decides the controversy in favor of the United States. Its validity is denied,
however, on the part of plaintiff, on the ground that it was

Oct. 1875.]

CITY OF ST. Louis v. UNITED STATES.

463

without consideration, and that it was improperly coerced from
the authorities of Carondelet by the officers of the government
who had charge of the department of public lands by an unjust and illegal exercise of authority in refusing to confirm and
threatening to set aside the survey, which we have already mentioned, of the Carondelet commons, and exacting this deed as
the condition of their acquiescence in that survey. On the
other side, the deed is supported as a just ana equitable compromise of a long-existing controversy, both as to the correctness of that survey and the right of the government to the
ground known as Jefferson Barracks.
The origin of the claim of Carondelet was a concession of
six thousand arpents of land adjoining the village, made in
1796 by Zenon Trudeau, lieutenant-governor of Upper Louisiana. An attempt to give locality to this concession was made
by Soulard (who describes himself as a surveyor commissioned
by the government) in December, 1797; but the first actual
survey was made in 1818 by Elias Rector, who was deputy
under his father, William Rector, surveyor of public lands
for the Territories of Illinois and Missouri.
The Court of Claims finds, that, though the field-notes ol
this survey were filed in the surveyor's office, it was never
approved by him.
But, in the year 1834, Elias T. Langham, surveyor-general
at St. Louis, caused J. C. Brown, one of his deputies, to retrace
and re-establish the lines of Rector's survey; and, when the
result of the work was returned to his office, he approved the
survey, and the same was duly filed in the office of recorder
of land-titles in Missouri, who thereupon certifies that the
title was by him duly confirmed of the village to their claim as
commons of six thousand arpents of land, as shown by that
survey. Six thousand arpents are equivalent to five thousand
one hundred and four acres. The survey contained nine thou.
sand nine hundred and five acres; and the Court of Claims
finds, that, after deducting from that quantity the JeffersonBarracks claim and all private claims, there still remained
nearly one thousand acres more than the six thousand arpents.
There is no evidence that this survey was ever brought to the
attention of the Land Department in Washington until June,
1839.

CITY OF ST. Louis v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. C t.

In that year, the surveyor-general at St. Louis seems to have
called the attention of the district-attorney of the United
States for Missouri to the survey in connection with the location of Jefferson Barracks; and, the letter having been transmitted to the Secretary of War, an investigation of the whole
matter was instituted by the commissioner of public lands.
This resulted in an order, made in 1841 by Commissioner
Whitcomb to Stuweyor-General Milburn, directing a new survey of these commons, on the principle of reserving one thousand seven hundred and two acres for military purposes at
Jefferson Barracks, allowing six thousand arpents to Carondelet for her commons, and restoring the balance, not covered
by private claims, to sale as public lands.
It may as well be here stated that this order was never carried out.
In the year 1826, the military authorities of the United
States, desiring to establish at that point a military post, procured from twelve inhabitants of the village of Carondelet a
deed conveying to the United States a described portion of the
land which they claimed as part of the commons of the village,
with a reversion to the village whenever the United States
should cease to use it for military purposes. From that time
the government has been in continued possession of the property.
It appears by the findings of the court that certain persons
who had purchased lots of the city of Carondelet, not conflicting with the barracks claim, and other citizens of Carondelet,
becoming uneasy about the condition in which the title to all
the commons was left by the order of Commissioner Whitcomb,
employed agents to procure a confirmation of the Brown-Rector
survey. They appeared at Washington, and a negotiation, remonstrance, and correspondence was carried on for several
years; and divers opinions and decisions were had from Commissioners of the Land-Office, and Secretaries of the Treasury and Interior, none of which confirmed the survey as
valid.
Finally, without any suggestions shown to come from the
United States or its officers, the parties interested in the settlement of the title of Carondelet to the remainder of the corn-

Oct. 1875.]

CITY OF ST. Louis v. UNITED STATES.

mons, and the authorities of that city, conceiving that, if the
title of the United States to that reservation was made good,
the main difficulty in the way of this settlement would be removed, the authorities of the city made the deed we have
already mentioned, of October, 1854.
And accordingly, on the 8th October, 1855, another survy
on the basis of Brown's, but marking the barracks property as
reserved, and giving its boundaries, was made and confirmed
by the Commissioner of the Land-Office as the true survey of the
Carondelet commons.
It is obvious enough from this imperfect sketch of the history
of the controversy that the deed of the city to the United
States and the subsequent confirmation of the survey were the
result of a compromise of a long-pending contest between the
parties to it. No fraud is found or suggested. The action of
the city of Carondelet cannot be impeached on the ground of
duress within any legal or equitable definition of that term as
applied to contracts. It was a suggestion originating with
Carondelet, designed to secure action, which she desired. The
officers of the Land Department were doing nothing in the
matter. The order for the new survey, made in 1841, had
never been executed; and in 1845 Commissioner Shields had
declared that there was no intention to carry that order into
effect until further action by Congress, and this was repeated
by Commissioner Young in 1846.
If, as is now argued, Carondelet had a perfect title to the
land in controversy, she had nothing to do but remain quiet, or
assert her title in the courts of law which were open to her;
for no officer of the government from 1841 to the date of this
deed-a period of thirteen years - did any thing to affect
that title, or to deprive her of her rights.
But the opinion of all the officers of the Land Department was
against the validity of that survey, and of course against her
title to any commons at all as being perfect. The Supreme
Court of the State of Missouri had so decided in 1844 in the
case of Dent v. Bingham, 8 Mo. 579. It was known that the
survey included nearly twice as much land as was originally
claimed under the grant of Trudeau.
The Land-Office, while it declined to exercise it, had asserted
vor,. II.

CITY OF ST.

Louis v.

UNITED

6TATES.

[Sup. Ct.

the right to set aside that survey and order another, and was
apparently only awaiting some action of Congress.
How can it be said under these circumstances, after a contest of thirteen years, that Carondelet, in proposing to release
her claim to the one thousand seven hundxed acres of the barracks reservation in exchange for the quieting and perfecting
of her title to the remainder of the commons, acted uidez
duress? or acted unwisely? or that the compromise was, as
to her, inequitable ?
It is said to be inequitable, because it is now the settled law,
that under the act of 1812, confirming the titles of the villages
to their common lands, the title became perfect on the completion of the survey.
We are not disposed to deny the doctrine, that when such a
survey was made by the proper officers in 1839, and approved
by the Surveyor-General, that it constituted a title to the land.
But this doctrine was not so completely and fully settled at
the date of this compromise as to be free from doubt; and, if
it were, there still remained the question of the power of the
Commissioner of the General Land-Office to set aside a survey
so made, and order another, - a power which undoubtedly exists as to all surveys made for many years past, however it may
have been in 1841.
But it is important to consider that the Land Department
then asserted such a power, and no decision had then settled
the law to the contrary. It was, therefore, a proper element of
doubt in considering the question of a compromise.
If, however, the commissioner had no such power, and conceding that the approval of that survey by the Surveyor-General
completed the legal title to the land it included, there can be no
doubt of the right of the United States, treating the same as if
it were a patent, to file a bill in chancery to set it aside as improvilently made; and, on the trial of this issue, the excessive
quantity of the survey, the reservation and long possession of
the barracks, and perhaps other circumstances, would have
made the result doubtful enough to justify the authorities of
Carondelet in compromising the matter in advance of such a
suit.
In short, we are of opinion that the deed of Carondelet is

Oet. 1875.]

TYNG v. GRINNELL,

COLLECTOR.

valid, as based upon an equitable compromise of a long-pending
and doubtful question of title, and that it excludes the plaintiff
in this suit from any relief.
Judgment affirmed.

TYNG v. GRRKNELL, COLLECTOR.
I A special finding by the court upon issues of fact, where the parties or their
attorneys have duly filed a stipulation, waiving a jury, has the same effect
as a verdict, and is not subject to review by this court except as to the sufficiency of the facts found to support the judgment.

2. The question, whether an imported article is or is not known in commerce
by the word or terms used in the act imposing the duty, is one of fact

for the jury.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
Ir. C. Donoliue for the plaintiff in error.
1i1r. Assistant Attornel-General _Edwin B. Smith, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
Import duties of two cents and a half per pound were, by
the act of the 30th of June, 1864, levied on steam, gas, and
water tubes and flues; and it appears that the second section
of the act of 3d March, 1865, levied one cent per pound on
wrought-iron tubes, in addition to the duties heretofore imposed
by law. 13 Stat. 204, 498.
Certain wrought-iron articles of tubular form, intended to be
so used as to allow the passage through the same of the products of combustion, were imported into the port of New
York by the plaintiffs; and the record shows that the importers, on the 21st of January, 1870, made due entry of
the importation, and that they claimed that the articles imported and described in the entry were flues, and that they
were subje t only to the import duty of two cents and a half
po;r pound; and it appears that the defendant, as the collector
of the port, decided that the articles described in the entry
were wrought-iron tubes, and that they were dutiable as such
at three cents and a half per pound, under the second section
of the last-named act of Congress.
AIR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD

