Oct. 1875.]

BARNEY, COLLECTOR,

V.

WATSON ET AL.

4419

has got all that he contracted to buy. That was the question
for the jury; but it was not so left to them. The rule must,
therefore, be absolute for a new trial."
The judges were unanimous.
Here, also, the plaintiffs in error got exactly what they intended to buy, and did buy. They took no guaranty. They
are seeking to recover, as it were, upon one, while none exists.
They are not clothed with the rights which such a stipulation
would have given them. Not having taken it, they cannot have
the benefit of it. The bank cannot be charged with a liability
which it did not assume.
Such securities throng the channels of commerce, which they
are made to seek, and where they find their market. They
pass from hand to hand like bank-notes. The seller is liable
ex delicto for bad faith; and ex contractu there is an implied
warranty on his part that they belong to him, and that they
are not forgeries. Where there is no express stipulation, there
is no liability beyond this. If the buyer desires special protection, he must take a guaranty. He can dictate its terms, and
refuse to buy unless it be given. If not taken, he cannot occupy the vantage-ground upon which it would have placed
him.
It would be unreasonably harsh to hold all those through
whose hands such instruments may have passed liable according t6 the principles which the plaintiffs in error insist shall be
Judgment affirmed.
applied in this case.

BARNEY, COLLECTOR, V. WATSON ET AL.
The act of Feb. 26, 1845 (5 Stat. 727), prescribing the time and manner ol
making protest to a collector of customs in cases therein mentioned, contin-

ued in force until the passage of the act of June 30, 1864 (13 id. 202).
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
3 r. A8sistant Attorney- General .Edwin B. Smith for the
plaintiff in error.
31 r. J. Hubley A8hton, contra.
VOL. 11.

29

450

BARNEY, COLLECTOR, V. WATSON ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

Mn. JUSTICE BRADLnY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit brought by the defendants in error against
the collector of customs at New York to recover certain duties
alleged to have been overcharged upon certain goods imported
in December, 1863. The plaintiffs claimed that they were
"flannels," dutiable at only thirty-five per cent ad valorem:
the collector held them to belong to a particular class of goods
which were subject to an additional specific duty of eighteen
cents per pound. As the quantity of goods was seven thousand nine hundred and eighty-four pounds, the difference was
$1,437.12. For this amount, with interest, the plaintiffs
brought the suit.
The goods in question were part of a large invoice entered
on the 24th of December, 1863; on which day the sum of
98,840.93 was paid on account. The entry was not liquidated
until the early part of March, 1864, when an additional sum
of $1,182.71 was demanded. To this the plaintiffs demurred,
as it was based on the aforesaid charge of eighteen cents per
pound, in addition to the ad valorem duty on the goods in
question.
The questions arising at the trial as to the character and
dutiability of the goods referred to, and the evidence proper to
decide the same, are not of sufficient importance to demand
special consideration. The principal question below, and that
which has been most discussed in this court, is, whether the
plaintiffs gave timely and sufficient notice of protest and dissatisfaction with the decision of the collector.
No objection was made until the additional amount was
demanded in March, 1864. The import entry was indorsed
with the following memorandum: "Liquidated, and notified
importer, March 11, 1864." The additional duty was paid, and
a formal protest in writing was served by the plaintiffs on the
24th of March, 1864. In the mean time the importers had
aypealed to the Secretary of the Treasury, and had obtained
his decision, dated the 21st of March, affirming that of the
collector.
' The defendant insisted that this protest was too late; that
it should have been made within ten days from the entry of
the liquidation on the import entry: but the court allowed

Oct. 1875.]

BARNEY,

COLLECTOR, V. WATSON ET AL.

451

the plaintiffs to prove that the liquidation was really completed
before the 11th of March; -and that, within ten days after its
completion, a written notice of dissatisfaction, different from
the formal protest, was given to the collector. To this the defendant excepted. The jury rendered a verdict for $2,235.72,
being the whole amount demanded, with interest.
It is assumed in the argument, and seems to have been
assumed at the trial, that the case was governed by the act of
March 3,1857 (11 Stat. 195), by the fifth section of which it
-was provided, "That on the entry of any goods, wares, and merchandise imported
on and after the first day of July aforesaid, the decision of the collector of the customs at the port of importation and entry, as to their
liability to duty or exemption therefrom, shall be final and conclusive
against the owner, importer, consignee, or agent of any such goods,
wares, and merchandise, unless the owner, importer, consignee, or
agent, shall, within ten days after such entry, give notice to the collector, in writing, of his dissatisfaction with such decision, setting
forth therein, distinctly and specifically, his grounds of objection
thereto, and shall within thirty days after the date of such decision
appeal therefrom to the Secretary of the Treasury, whose decision on
such appeal shall be final and conclusive; and the said goods, wares,
and merchandise shall be liable to duty or exempted therefrom
accordingly, any act of Congress to the contrary notwithstanding,
unless suit shall be brought within thirty days after such decision for
any duties that may have been paid, or may thereafter be paid, on
said goods, or within thirty days after the duties shall have been
paid in cases where such goods shall be in bond."
On examination of the various acts of Congress relating to
claims for overcharge of duties on imported goods, we are satisfied that the act of 1857, above quoted, had no application to
this case, but that the case was governed by an act passed on
the 26th of February, 1845 (5 Stat. 727).
To make this more apparent, it will be necessary briefly to
advert to the history Qf the laws on this subject.
The case of Elliot v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137, decided in 1836,
affirmed the principle which had been established by previous
authorities, -that money paid to a collector for duties illegally
demanded, if paid under compulsion, in order to get possession

452

BARNEY, COLLECTOR,

V.

WATSON ET AL.

[SUp. Ct.

of the party's goods, or to prevent their being seized for the
duties, may be recovered against the officer in an action at
common law, provided the payment be made under protest and
with full notice of the intent to sue, so that the officer may
protect himself by retaining the money in his possession; but
that a payment voluntarily made without such protest cannot
be recovered back. The embarrassments which ensued in consequence of the large amount of duties withheld from the public
treasury by Mr. Swartwout, the defendant in that case, induced
the passage of an act in 1839 (5 Stat. 348, sect. 2), which required all duties collected to be paid into the treasury without
regard to claims for overcharge, and deprived the party of an
action at law by giving him the specific remedy of an appeal
to the Secretary of the Treasury. This was held to be the
effect of the act, although not its express terms, as may be
seen by a reference to the case of Cary v. Curtis, reported in
3 How. 236. In 1845, the right of action was restored by an
act passed to explain the act of 1839. It declared that nothing
contained in this act should be construed to take away the
right of any person who should pay money for duties under
protest in order to obtain goods imported by him, which dufies were not authorized or payable, in part or in whole, by
law, to maintain an action at law to ascertain and try the validity of such demand and payment, and to have a right to a.
trial by jury according to the due course of law; but it required the protest to be made in writing, and signed by the
claimant at or before the payment of the duties, setting forth
distinctly and specifically the grounds of objection to the payment thereof. Act of Feb. 26, 1845 (5 Stat. 727). This act was
never repealed until the passage of the act to increase duties on
imp6rts, approved June 30, 1864, by the fourteenth section of
which (13 Stat. 214) it was enacted, that on the entry of any
vessel, or of any goods, the decision of the collector as to the
rate and amount of the duties, both on the tonnage of the vessel
and on the goods, should be final and conclusive, anless the
owner or consignee should, within ten days after the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties, give notice in writing to,
the collector, on each entry, if dissatisfied with his decision,
setting forth distinctly and specifically the grounds of objec.

Oct. 1075.]

BARNEY, COLLECTOR, V. 'WATSON ET AL.

453

tion, and should .appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury within
thirty days after such ascertainment and liquidation, and unless suit should be brought within ninety days after the Secretary's decision. This act supplied the act of 1845, and repealed
it by implication. But it was not in force when the goods in
question in this case were imported: therefore the proceedings in this case were subject to the regulations of the act of
1845, which required the protest to be made at or before the
payment of the duties alleged to be illegal.
The act of 1857, which was erroneously supposed to govern
the case, did not relate to a decision upon the rate and amount
of the duties to be charged, but to the decision of the collector
whether the goods were on the free list or not. This act was
passed for the purpose of reducing duties on imports still lower
than the rates imposed by the tariff act of 1846, and it made
a large addition to the list of articles entirely exempt from duty.
The list of additional articles exempted is extended at large in
the act, and occupies the greater part of it. The last section
then enacts, that, on the entry of any goods imported after the
first of July then next, the decision of the collector as to their
liability to duty or exeniption therefrom shall be final and conclusive, &c., unless the importer or consignee, &c., shall, within
ten days after such entry, give notice to the collector, in
writing, of his dissatisfaction, &c. Now, the question, whether
goods imported were or were not on. the free list, and exempt
from any duty at all, could and necessarily would be decided
on their entry, and need not await any ascertainment or liquidation of the amount. Hence it was required that the notice
of dissatisfaction should be made within ten days after such
tntry; and the requirement, on this view of the act, was a
ieasonable one. The act does not in terms, nor by implication, repeal the act of 1845. That act still furnished the rule
to be observed, if the importer, admitting that the goods were
dutiable, questioned the rate and amount of duties to be
paid. In most cases, the amount, and in many cases the rate,
could not be ascertained until after examination and appraisenient; and hence a limitation to ten days from the time of
entry would often, perhaps generally, deprive the party of any
,remedy at all.

454

TERRY V. COMMERCIAL BANK OF ALABAMA.

LSup. bt.

The question in the case, therefore, really was, whether the
importers made their protest in accordance with the act of
1845; namely, at or before paying the duties complained of.
It is not denied that they did this so far as relates to the additional charge of $1,182.72: but they claim a return of more
-than this; and, under the charge of the'court, they obtained a
verdict for nearly double this amount, which would include
some portion of the money paid by them without protest when
the goods were first entered. This was erroneous.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with directions to
award a venire de novo.

T.RRY

v. ComracIAL BANK

oF ALABAyA.

1. The holder of the notes of an insolvent bank, the stockholders whereof are
liable for so much of the just claims of creditors as remain unpaid after the
assets of the bank shall be exhausted, filed a bill in equity to wind up the
affairs of the institution under the provisions of its charter. The stockholders were not made parties, nor served with process ; nor was any motion,
petition, or prayer, filed to subject them to liability. Held, that so much of
the final decree as discharged them from all liability for and on account of
any debt or demand against them or the bank was erroneous.
2. Where, after a final decree on the merits had been rendered upon the report
of the receiver and upon the reports of the master to whom it bad been referred, all of which had been confirmed without exception, the complainant
filed a petition supported by his affidavit asserting that his solicitor had deserted his interests, failed to except to the reports, and improperly consented
to the decree, - Held, that this court cannot consider the alleged errors in
the reports of the master, or review the action of the court below in refusing
to set aside the decree upon an application addressed mainly to its discretion.
8. If the complainant desired to place the case in a position where the action of
the court below could be reviewed here, he should have filed his bill of review, and supported it by depositions. Such a bill is also the appropriate
remedy where a decree has been obtained by fraud.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama.
Mr. Harvey Terry for the appellant.
No opposing counsel.

MR. JUsTICE MILEm delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant, the Commercial Bank of Alabama, was a

