Oct. 1875.]

THE "GALATEA."

439

Tim, "GALATEA."
Where, in order to avoid a collision between two vessels propelled by steam, one
going with and the other against the tide, it is conceded that one should stop,
it is the duty of the vessel proceeding against the tide to do so, as her movements can be controlled with less difficulty than those of the other vessel.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
1Ir. R. .D. Benedict for the appellants.
Mr. William 3l. .Evarts, contra.

MIR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD deliveredf the opinion of the court.
Owners of ships appoint the master and employ the crew,
and consequently are, as a general rule, held responsible for the
conduct of both in the navigation of the vessel.
Exceptions exist to that rule in certain cases; as where the
craft is one without sails or steam apparatus, or where the difficulties of the navigation make it necessary to employ a steamtug, and to turn over the control and navigation of the ship to
the master and crew of the latter vessel.
Steam-tugs are usually employed in such cases; but the
owners of the ship or other craft do not necessarily, in that
event, constitute the master and crew of the accessory motive
power their agents in performing the service, as they neither
appoint the master of the steam-tug or ship the crew, nor can
they displace either the one or the other. iSturgis v. Boyer,
24 How. 122.
Beyond doubt, they are under obligations to employ a seaworthy steam-tug, as the accessory motive-power to their own
ship ox craft; and they continue to be responsible for the negligence, omission of duty, or unskilfulness, of the master and
crew of their own vessel.
Much discussion of those questions, however, is unnecessary,
as it is not pretended, in the case before the court, that the
barges in tow were guilty of negligence, or that any act or
omission of duty by those in the immediate charge of their
navigation contributed in any degree to the collision. Instead
of that, it appears that the suit was promoted by the owners of

THE

,GALATEA."

[p
[Sup. Ct.

the steam-tug, the three barges, and the owners of the cargo of
the two barges loaded with coal.
Two of the barges - to wit, the "Pottsville" and the "Reading "- belonged to the owners of the steam-tug; and it appears
that they 'were all taken in tow by the steam-tug, to be transported from Jersey City to New Haven; and it also appears that
the tow was aiTanged with the "Reading" on the starboard side
of the steam-tug, and that the "Pottsville" was on the port side,
the "Hoffman" being on the port side of the "Pottsville."
Arranged as described, they were lashed together in the usual
way by what are called spring-lines, stern-lines, head-lines,
and breast-lines; and the master testifies that the lines were all
good, and that the fastenings were sufficient.
Nothing occurred during the voyage, material to the present
investigation, until half-past five o'clock in the morning of the
day of the collision, when the steam-tug with the three barges in
tow was passing through Hell Gate, on her way to the place of
her destination. Sufficient appears to show that the sky was
clear, and that the full moon was shining brightly above the horizon, and that the propeller" Galatea" was on her regular return
trip from Providence to New York. Both the propeller and
the steam-tug were well manned and equipped, and the evidence
shows that they both displayed proper signal-lights; nor is there
any reason to doubt that each was seen by the other in season
to have prevented a collision, notwithstanding the tide was halfflood, running at the rate of seven knots an hour.
Bound out as the steam-tug with her tow was, she was running with the tide; and the propeller, being bound to New
York, was of course heading against the tide, and it appears
that she was running at her usual speed of twelve knots an
hour. Though running with the tide, the evidence shows that
the steam-tug was making two knots an hour less speed than the
propeller; and the libellants allege that the propeller saw the
lights of the steam-tug when the latter was opposite Astoria,
and while the propeller was on the east side of Ward's Island,
and before she arrived at Negro Point; that the steam-tug,
when the two vessels were in those positions, blew a long signal-whistle to signify that both vessels should put their helms
to port, and that each should go to the port side of the other;

Oct. 1875.]

THE "GALATEA."

and they aillege that the propeller gave one long signal-whistle
in reply, by which those engaged in navigating the steam-tug
understood that their signal had been heard and was assented
to and approved by those in charge of the propeller.
Satisfactory evidence is exhibited that the signal given by
the steam-tug was heard, and that the lights of the steam-tug
were seasonably seen by the propeller; and it is equally certain that those in charge of the respective vessels understood
that each should port their helm, and pass the other on the
port side. Testimony was introduced by the libellants to show
that the signal to go to the right was given and answered a
second time; but the point is not material, as it is proved
beyond all doubt that there was no misunderstanding as to the
course which each vessel was expected to pursue. Enough appears also to warrant the conclusion, that those in charge of
each vessel understood sufficiently the character of the other.
They were then a mile apart; but it is not doubted that the
libellants knew that the lights ahead were the signal-lights of
a large steamer, and it is equally certain that the propeller
knew that it was a steam-tug with a tow that was approaching
from the opposite direction.
It appears that the "Galatea" was a propeller of fifteen hundred and sixty-six tons; that she was two hundred and fortyfive feet long, and fifty-four feet in width over all. On the
other hand, the steam-tug was seventy feet long and seventeen
feet wide, with three barges in tow, varying in length from
one hundred and ten feet to one hundred and fifteen feet; and
it appears that each was about the same width as the steamtug.
Explanations as to the manner in which the tow was arranged have already been given; to which it maybe added, that
the barges projected some twenty feet forward of the stem of
the steam-tug, and about the same distance aft the stern of the
tug by which they were propelled.
Prior to and at the time of the collision, the master. and pilot
of the steam-tug was in the pilot-house, at the wheel; and it is
proved that she had one man forward on deck, outside of the
pilot-house, and that the master of each of the three barges in
tow was at the helm of his respective barge.

THE "GALATEA."[

[Sup. Ct.

None of these matters are much controverted, and it is admitted that the collision occurred at the time alleged in the
libel; but the parties differ very widely as to the place where
the disaster took place. Differences more antagonistic and irreconcilable are seldom encountered, even in collision cases,
than are exhibited in the present transcript, in respect to that
question; but still the parties concur in some things, which
will afford some aid in the solution of the matters of fact in
controversy: as, for example, they both admit that the collision
took place while the two vessels were passing through what is
called "Hell Gate;" that the steam-tug, with her tow, was on
her way from Jersey City to New Haven, and that the propeller
was making her return trip from Providence to New York;
that it was a moonlight morning, and that the proper signallights of each vessel were seasonably seen by the other, showing
conclusively that one or the other, or both, must have been in
fault.
Neither party sets up inevitable accident; and they substantially concur that the question which was in fault must depend upon the answer to be given to the inquiry, whether the
collision occurred on the north or the south side of the channel,
defined by the witnesses, in that state of the navigation, as the
true tide; that the steam-tug was in fault if the collision occurred on the north side, and that the propeller was in fault if
it occurred on the south side, as alleged by the libellants.
Service was made; and the respondents appeared, and filed
an answer. Proofs were taken on both sides; and the District
Court, after having heard the parties, entered a decretal order
in favor of the libellants, and referred the cause to a master to
estimate the damages. Both parties were heard before the
master, and he made a report to the District Court. Exceptions were filed to his report by both parties; but the District
Court overruled all the exceptions, and entered a final decree
in favor of the libellants for the sum of $13,123.21, and the
respondents appealed to the Circuit Court. Hearing was again
had in the Circuit Court; and the Circuit Court reversed the
decree of the District Court, and entered a decree dismissing th6
libel:. whereupon the libellants appealed to this court.
Matters of fact only are in controversy between the parties

Oct. 1875.]

THE

,GALATEA."

and it must be admitted that some of the questions presented
are involved in some obscurity and doubt. Most of the questions discussed are -comparatively unimportant, except as they
bear upon the principal issue of fact between the parties as to
the place where the collision occurred, -whether it was on the
north or south side of the true tide, or channel of naviga'ion,
in that state of the tide.
Tested by the pleadings or evidence, it is plain that each
vessel was bound to go to the port side of the other; and that,
if they had both obeyed that regulation, they would not have
collided. Both substantially admit that proposition in their
pleadings, proof of which is found both in the libel and in the
answer.
Pot Rock is' the place designated in the libel as the place
where the collision occurred; and it is clear, that, if it occurred
in that vicinity, the libellants were not in fault. They allege
that the collision occurred while the steam-tug was heading
east by south; and that the propeller, while the steam-tug, with
her tow, was in the prosecution of her trip, ran into and came
into collision with the three barges; that her cutwater struck
the "Hoffman," and, passing through the barge, struck the
bow of the "Pottsville" and cut her entirely off, and then
came in contact with the port bow of the "Reading," forward
of her midships; and it appears that the result was that the
"Hoffman" and the "Pottsvil l e " with her cargo of coal sank
immediately; and that the "Reading," with her cargo, sank in
about ten minutes, all in very deep water; and that the barges
and the two cargoes of coal became a total loss.
Directly opposed to that are the averments of the answer, in
which the respondents deny that the propeller ran into the
barges, or either of them, and allege that the barges drifted
down and upon the propeller, and that they struck against and
upon their vessel when she was not moving forward or towards
the barges, but that she had stopped, and was backing her engines, with a view to avoid the barges, after having percei- ed
that they were drifting down the tide and were in danger of
running against the propeller; and that the collision occurred,
not at Pot Rock, as alleged by the libellants, but abreast of
Negro Point, which is very near the northern shore.

THE "GALATEA."

[Sup.

.

These references to the pleadings are sufficient, without
more, to exhibit the real issue between the parties, and to
show the proper application of the several propositions of fact
maintained on the one side and the other in the argument at
the bar. Such of those propositions as appear to be material
will be considered. They are as follows, first giving the views
of the libellants, and then those advanced by the respondents:Throughout, the libellants maintain that the collision occurred
on the south side of the true tide, close to Pot Rock, which is
emphatically denied by the respondents; and they insist that it
took place on the north side of the channel, close to the opposite shore. Attempt is made by the libellants to support the
main theory of the libel by another proposition of fact; which
is, that the steam-tug and the barges, when the signals were
exchanged between the steam-tug and the propeller, ported
their helms, and kept as close to the edge of the true tide on
the starboard side as they conveniently could, without getting
into the eddy, which is just south of the Pot Rock, and which,
as they claim, might have sent the craft ashore if they had
drifted into it.
Suppose the steam-tug with her tow did port: still it is
insisted by the respondents that the whole craft crossed the
channel nearly to Hog's Back on the chart, on the northern
edge of the true tide, and continued on that course until the
collision occurred. Of course the libellants deny that proposition; and they insist that the propeller came across the channel
from the northern to the southern edge of the same, and there
struck the tow in charge of the steam-tug.
Diametrically opposite views are entertained by the respondents, and they insist that the propeller came down against the
tide in the middle of the channel; and their theory is, that
the steam-tug floated across the tide from the northern side of
the channel, and that the port barge struck the stem of the propeller, and that it was by those means that the barges in tow
were injured and sunk, as alleged in the libel.
Improbable as that proposition is, it needs more support to
give it credence than is found in the evidence; and the libellants contend that the propeller was running at her usual speed

Oct. 1875.]

THE "GALATEA."

of twelve miles an hour when she cut through the two barges
on the port side of the steam-tug.
Support to that view is certainly exhibited in the testimony
introduced by the libellants; and the extent of the injuries inflicted by the concussion adds very decided confirmation to the
statement of the witnesses.
Conclusions of fact are all that can properly be expected in
such a case, without any attempt to give the details of the evidence. All of the evidence has been examined; and the court,
after having duly considered the arguments of counsel, is of
the opinion that the steam-tug, with the barges in tow, was as
far towards the southerly edge of the true tide as she could
reasonably be required to go in passing through that dangerous
and narrow channel of navigation. Usage gave her the right
to go through at half-flood tide; and the evidence is convincing
that her tow was not greater than she was accustomed to transport through that channel on such occasions, nor is the theory
of the propeller sustained that the steam-tug was at any time
on the northern side of the true tide subsequent to the exchange of signals between the two vessels.
Properly weighed, the evidence is satisfactory that the two
vessels came to a distinct and clear understanding by those
signals, that each should port their helms, and pass on the port
side of the other; and the court here is of the opinion that the
steam-tug took every necessary step to carry that understanding into effect, and that she was as near to Pot Rock as the
character of the navigation would safely allow.
Ample width was left to the northward of the line of her
course for the propeller to have passed in safety, if she had
conformed to the arrangement properly to be inferred from the
signals. Those in charge of the navigation of the propeller
testify that she ported her helm as she came round Negro Point:
and it may be that she did; but it is scarcely to be believed that
the helm was put hzard a-port, as the most rational mode of accounting for the collision is, that her bow was struck by the
tide just as she came round that point, which gave her a more
southern direction across the true tide than she otherwise would
have pursued.
Judging from the whole evidence, the better opinion is, that,

THE "GALATEA."

[Sup. Ot.

if her helm had been put hard a-port, the collision might have
been avoided, as in that event she would have gone pretty close
to the northern edge of the true tide, instead of crossing the
same in the direction of the place where the collision actually
took place.
Beyond doubt, the navigation through that gate is quite dangerous ; and yet the evidence tends pretty strongly to show that
both vessels, if proper precautions had been used, might have
passed each other in safety, and without danger of collision.
Nor is it necessary to decide that question; for, if it be conceded
that one or the other should have stopped, it is clear that it
was the duty of the propeller to adopt that precaution, as she
was proceeding against the tide, and could control her movements with much less difficulty than the steam-tug, as the latter was running with the tide.
Apart from this, the evidence shows that the usages of navigation authorized the steam-tug to proceed on her voyage in
that state of the tide; and it is obvious that she could not stop,
as she was going with the tide at the rate of ten miles an hour,
with the aid of her engine. Without doubt, she might have
stopped her engine; but it is very doubtful whether the stopping the engine at that moment would have had any tendency
to prevent the collision, as it appears that the propeller struck
the tow on the port side nearly at right angles.
Viewed in the light of the whole evidence, the court is clearly
of the opinion that the propeller was wholly in fault, and that
the collision was occasioned by the negligence, and want of due
care, on the part of those in charge of her navigation.
Certain exceptions were taken in the District Court to the
report of the master; but inasmuch as the respondents did not
appeal, and the libellants have not pressed their objections, it
is not deemed necessary to give the exceptions any consideration.
Decree reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to
affirm the decree of the -District Court.

