Oct. 1875.]

WILLS ET AL. V.

(JLAFLIN ET AL.

WILLS ET AL. V. CLA_LIN ET AL.
1. By the statute of Illinois, the assignor of a promissory note is liable on his con.
tract of assignment, only in case the assignee has, by the exercise of due
diligence, obtained judgment against the maker, and a return of nulla bona,
unless such suit would have been impracticable or unavailing.
2 Where the declaration avers that such suit would have been unavailing, and
the defendant takes issue thereon, the record of an adjudication in bankruptcy against the maker of the note before suit could have been brought
thereon is not only competent, but conclusive, evidence for the plaintiff.
. The non-averment of any special fact or reason why such suit would have
been unavailing renders the declaration bad on demurrer; but the defect

is cured by verdict.

ErRROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This is a suit by the defendants in error, as the assignees of
certain promissory notes, against the plaintiffs in error as the
assignors.
The statute of Illinois bearing upon the case is as follows :" SECT. 7. Every assignor or assignors, or his, her, or their
heirs, executors, or administrators, of every such note, bond, bill,
or other instrument in writing, shall be liable to the action of the
assignee or assignees thereof, or his, her, or their executors or
administrators, if such assignee or assignees shall have used due
diligence, by the institution and prosecution of a suit against the
maker or makers of such assigned note, bond, bill, or other instrument of writing, or against his, her, or their heirs, executors, or
administrators, for the recovery of the money or property due
thereon, or damages in lieu thereof ; provided, that if the institution of such suit would have been unavailing, or that the maker or
makers had absconded, or left the State, when such assigned note,
bond, bill, or other instrument in writing, became due, such assignee
or assignees, or his or her executors or administrators, may recover
against the assignor or assignors, or against his or their heirs, executors, or administrators, as if due diligence by suit had been used." Gross's Compilation, 1869, p. 462.

One of the notes sued upon was executed by Simeon Pickard, who resided in the State of Michigan; and the liability of
the plaintiffs in error upon that note is conceded. The other
three notes were executed by Kimball & Butterfield, were

-

[Sup. Ct.

WILLS ET AL. V. (CLAFLIN ET AL.

assigned in Chicago by the plaintiffs in error, November, 1869;
and fell due Jan. 18, Feb. 19, and March 19, 1870, respectively.
The declaration, after setting forth the execution and the assignment of the notes, proceeds, in the first count, as follows: "And the plaintiffs aver that the said Simeon Pickard, and the
said Kimball, and the said Butterfield, were not, at the date of the
aforesaid execution of their respective notes, residents of the State
of Illinois; nor was either of them, at the date of such execution, a
resident of said State; but that they were each and all, at the time
of the execution by them of said notes respectively, ever since have
been, and still are, non-residents of the State of Illinois; and were
not, nor were either or any of them, within said State at the time
when said notes, or any or either of them, became due and payable.
Of all which several premises the said defendants afterwards -to
wit, at the time aforesaid - had notice."
The averments in the second count are as follows:

-

"And the plaintiffs aver, that, at the time when each of said
promissory notes became by its terms due and payable, the said
Simeon Pickard, and the said Kimball, and the said Butterfield,
were each and all insolvent, and unable to pay the amount of the
notes by them respectively subscribed as aforesaid, or any part
thereof, and hitherto from thence have continued insolvent, and
unable to pay the amount of the notes by them respectively subscribed as aforesaid, or any portion thereof; and the said plaintiffs
aver, that the institution of a suit against the said Simeon Pickard,
or against the said Kimball, or the said Butterfield, at the time the
notes so by them as aforesaid respectively subscribed became due
and payable, ar at any time since, or now, would have been and
would be wholly unavailing. Of all which the said defendants
afterwards -to wit, at the time aforesaid, at the Northern District
of Illinois aforesaid-had notice."
The defendants pleaded the general issue.
At the trial, the plaintiffs below offered in evidence the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, showing the petition in
bankruptcy by certain creditors of Kimball & Butterfield, filed
Jan. 20, 1870, against them, alleging that they had committed
an act of bankruptcy the preceding month, and an order entered
the 29th of January adjudicating them bankrupts; to which

Oet. 1875.]

WILLS ET AL. V.

OLAFLIN ET AL.

the defendants objected, because it was irrelevant and incompetent upon the pleadings and issue. But the court overruled
the objections, and allowed the transcript to be read in evidence
to the jury. The defendants excepted.
The defendants offered parol testimony to show, that, after
the adjudication in bankruptcy, the proceedings were dropped
and dismissed by the attorneys who had prosecuted them, but
without showing when such dismissal took place.
The court charged the jury upon this point as follows:
"If you shall believe from the testimony, that, at the time these
notes became due,- that is, during the months of January, February, and March, - this adjudication in bankruptcy, rendered by
the United States District Court of the State of Wisconsin, was in
force, that of itself would excuse the plaintiffs from the institution
of a suit at law against the makers of these notes; and, if these parties were adjudged bankrupts, it was the duty of the creditors to
present their claims to the court in bankruptcy in Wisconsin. They
had no right to prosecute in this or any other State; and an injunction would have issued to prevent the prosecution of such a suit if
it had been instituted."
To which charge the defendant excepted.
The court also charged, "If it appears from the evidence that the makers of these notes
were adjudicated bankrupts, and the defendants wish to show or
claim that this adjudication was at any time set aside, and the
parties placed back upon the footing of a discharge from this adjudication, it was their duty to have established the fact, when the
adjudication was set aside, by testimony which showed that it
became operative, so that the plaintiffs in this suit could have
brought their suit at law at the next term of the court succeeding
the maturity of the note or notes; otherwise the plaintiffs were
excused from the diligence that the law required."
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs, upon which judgment was rendered. The defendants sued out this writ of
error.
Mr. T. " Goudy for the plaintiffs in error.
The liability of assignors in Illinois is regulated by the statute of that State, and not by the general rules of commercial
law. Rev. Stat. of Ill., 1845, p. 772; Gross's Comp., 1869,
p. 462.

WILLS ET AL.

V.

CLAFLIN ET AL.

[Sup. Gt.

The construction of this statute has been settled in Illinois by
numerous decisions. Those applicable to the questions in this
case are Hilbornv. Artus, 3 Scam. 345; Schuttlerv. Piatt,12 Ill.
419; Pierce v. Short, 14 id. 146; ilason v. Burton, 54 id. 353;
Crouch v. Hall, 15 id. 264; Bledsoe v. Graves, 4 Scam. 385.
The plaintiffs below filed two counts in their declaration,
and in each of 'which they presented a ground of recovery on
the assignment. No diligence to collect from the makers of
the notes by suit was claimed; but reliance was placed on the
other two branches of the statute as an excuse for not instituting a suit. The first count alleged as an excuse that they were
not within the jurisdiction of the courts of Illinois when the
notes matured. The second count alleged as an excuse, that
when the notes matured, and ever since that time until the commencement of this suit, the makers were insolvent, and unable
to pay, so that a suit against the makers would be unavailing.
The general issue was interposed to the declaration; so that the
plaintiff was required to prove one of these counts, in order to
recover.
The statute, as construed by the Supreme Court of Illinois,
makes an assignor of a promissory note liable only in the
event of, 1. An exercise of diligence by the assignee to collect
from the maker by the institution and prosecution of a suit to
judgment, and a return of execution, nulla bona. 2. Where
such a suit would be unavailing for any legal reason, the diligence by suit is excused. 3. Where the maker is out of the
jurisdiction of the court, so that he cannot be served with process when the assigned note matures, and until the time arrives
when a suit could be commenced, diligence by suit is excused.
The plaintiff cannot allege generally, in the language of the
statute, that a suit would be unavailing, and prove on the trial
any fact which shows that it would be unavailing; but he must
a- er in his declaration the specific fact or reason why it would
be unavailing, and he is confined in his proof to the fact alleged. Crouch v. Hall, supra.
The court admitted evidence that the makers were in bankruptcy in Wisconsin directly after the first note of Kimball &
Butterfield matured, as evidence tending to show that a suit
against them would be unavailing when it was not set up in either

Oct. 1875.]

WILLS ET AL. V.

,LAFLIN ET AL.

count of the declaration, and the only reason alleged was their
insolvency, and instructed the jury that it devolved on the
defendants to prove a termination of the proceedings in bankruptcy, so that a suit could be sustained on the notes when
they fell due, and that the existence of the adjudication was
sufficient evidence that a suit would be unavailing, while there
was nc such fact alleged in the declaration, and no issue of that
kind su)mitted to the jury.
The ground of recovery set forth in the second count of the
declaration can only be construed to be that a suit would be
unavailing because of the insolvency of the makers, and not
on account of the pendency of bankrupt proceedings. Crouch
v. Hall, supra.
Mr. Cy'rus Bentley for the defendants in error.
The case of Crouch v. Hall, 15 Ill. 264, cited by the plaintiffs in error, is not in point. The decision there rendered
was upon a demurrer to the declaration.
In the case at bar, no objection of this kind was raised; and.
the averment being left open, it was competent for the defendants in error to introduce any evidence competent to show any
reason why a suit against the makers of these notes would be
unavailing. If we are correct in this position, the record from
Wisconsin was admissible under the second averment of the
second count of the declaration, to show, that, for the reason
that the makers of these notes were in bankruptcy, a suit
against them would be unavailing; and the court committed
no error in its admission, or in the charge to the jury in regard
to it,-"If the defendant elect to plead and go to trial, he
has no right to insist upon the exclusion of evidence because
some necessary averment is omitted or defectively set forth."
Greathouse v. Bobinson, 8 Scam. 8.
AIR. JUsTImC DAvIs delivered the opinion of the court.
Claflin & Co., assignees of certain promissory notes, sued
Wills, Gregg, & Co., assignors of said notes, on their contract
of assignment made in the State of Illinois. The inquiry is,
whether a case of liability was made out on the trial, undei
the peculiar provisions of the statute of Illinois on the subject.
This statute makes promissory notes assignable by indorspment

WILLS ET AL. V. CLAFLIN ET AL.

[Sup. C

in writing, so as to vest the legal interest in the assignee; but
the liability of the assignor is not absolute, but conditional.
He agrees to pay the note, if the assignee, by the exercise of
due diligence, prosecutes the maker to insolvency; but if the
institution of a suit against the maker would be unavailing, or
if the maker, when the note falls due, is out of the jurisdiction
of the court, and therefore beyond the reach of legal process,
the assignor is equally as liable as if due diligence by suit had
been used. Gross's Comp., 1869, p. 462.
There was no attempt to coerce payment of the makers by
suit; and the assignees assume that they were excused, under
the circumstances, from instituting it. The declaration avers
insolvency, non-residence, and that a suit would have been
unavailing. On the trial, the Circuit Court, against the objection of the defendants, admitted evidence that a petition in
bankruptcy was filed Jan. 20, 1870, in the District Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, against
Kimball and Butterfield, the makers of the notes sued on; and
that a judgment was rendered against them Jan. 29, 1870.
The admission of this evidence is assigned for error on the
ground that there was no allegation in either count of the
declaration which justified it, or the charge of the court that
the adjudication in bankruptcy excused the assignees from
instituting suit against the makers.
There are two averments in the second count of the declaration, as follows.-F-irst, "And the plaintiffs aver, that at the time when each of
said promissory notes became, by its terms, due and payable, the
said Simeon Pickard, and the said Kimball, and the said Butterfield, were each and all insolvent, and unable to pay the amount
of the notes by them respectively subscribed as aforesaid, or any
part thereof, and hitherto from thence have continued insolvent,
and unable to pay the amount of the notes by them respectively
subscribed as aforesaid, or any portion thereof."
Second, "And the said plaintiffs aver that the institution of a
suit against the said Simeon Pickard, or against the said Kimball,
or the said Butterfield, at the time the notes so by them as aforesaid respectively subscribed became due and payable, or at any
time since, or now, would have been and would be wholly unavailing."

Oct. 1875.]

WILLS ET AL. V. CLAFLIN ET AL.

It is contended that these two averments must be treated as
one, and that they mean that a suit against the makers would
have been unavailing by reason of their insolvency.
If this were so, it would by no means follow that the record
was inadmissible to sustain that issue; but, be this as it may,
these averments, as we construe them, are distinct, and independent of each other. The first is complete in itself, because,
if the makers were insolvent, it would have been idle to bring
a suit against them. But there are other things besides insolvency which might render a suit unavailing; as, for instance,
want of consideration in the note, or, as in this case, an adjudication in bankruptcy.
The second averment was not limited to any particular
cause, but was general in its character, and left the pleadei
free to show on the trial any reason why a suit would be unavailing. It does not contain specifications enough to enable
the party to defend himself (Crouch v. Hall, 15 Ill. 264), and
an objection by way of demurrer would have prevailed. But
the question here is, not whether it is bad on demurrer, but
whether it is good after verdict.
"_At common law, after verdict, if the issue joined be such
as necessarily to require on the trial proof of the facts defectively or imperfectly stated or omitted, and without which it
is not to be presumed that the judge would direct the jury to
give, or the jury would have given, the verdict, such defect,
imperfection, or omission, is cured by the verdict." 1 Chitty's
Plead. (10th Am. ed.) 673, and cases cited in note. And this
rule is adopted in Illinois. In Greathousev. Robinson, 3 Scam.
8, it was held that the defendant, to avail himself of a defective averment in a declaration, must demur to it. "If he
elects to plead to the declaration, and go to trial, he has no
right to insist upon the exclusion of evidence because some
necessary averment is omitted or defectively set forth." There
was, therefore, no valid reason why the record of the adjudication of bankruptcy should have been excluded. It was not
only competent but conclusive evidence in support of the
allegation, that a suit against the makers would have been
unavailing; for the Bankrupt Act prevents the institution and
prosecution of suits against parties in bankruptcy.

MARKEY ET AL. V.

'

LANGLEY ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

The first note was due Jan. 18, 1870, two days before the
petition in bankruptcy was filed ; and the first term of court
held at Chicago, after the note became due, was on the first
Monday of the following month. At this time the adjudication in bankruptcy was in force, and a suit against the bankrmpts forbidden.
There was parol testimony (received without objection) to
show that the debts of the petitioners were settled, and the
proceedings in bankruptcy dismissed; but there was nothing
to fix the time when the order of dismissal was made. The
burden of doing this rested on the defendants, and so the jury
were told.
As this view of the case is decisive of it, it is unnecessary to
notice the other assignments of error.
Judgment affirmed.

MAIEY ET AL.

v. LAlGLEY ET AL.

1. Where mortgaged property is sold under a power, the absence of objection
on the part of the mortgagor to the sale as made cures any defect which
exists therein, and gives it validity.
2. Where the mortgagees are expressly authorized to sell for cash or on credit,
they may do either, or combine them in the sale; nor is a sale for part in
cash and part on credit under a power requiring it to be made for cash
invalid, if the departure from the terms of the power is beneficial to the
mortgagor. It is immaterial whether such arrangement for payment is
made before or after the sale.
8. Where property, subject to mortgage and other liens, is sold by the first mort.
gagee, he becomes the trustee for the benefit of all concerned. If he regards
the interest of others as well as his own, seeks to promote the common welfare, and keeps within the scope of his authority, a court of equity will in
no wise hold him responsible for mere errors of judgment or results, however unfortunate, which he could not reasonably have anticipated.
4. Upon the sale of such property, the liens attach to the proceeds thereof in
the same manner, order, and effect as they bound the premises before the
sale, the new securities standing in substitution for the old.
APtEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
The Kahnia Mills, a corporation under the laws of South
Carolina, having commenced the erection of a factory, borrowed from W. C. Langley & Co. of New York, in July, 1866,
$150,000 upon a mortgage of its entire property. The notes

