Oct. 1875.]

NEWHALL V. SANGER.

NEWEALL v. SA_GER.
1. The act of July 1, 1862 (12 Stat. 492), grants to the Western Pacific Railroad
Company every alternate section of public land designated by odd numbers within the limits of ten miles on each side of its road, not sold,
reserved, or otherwise disposed of by the United States, and to which a
homestead or pre-emption claim may not have attached at the time the
line of the road is definitely fixed. The act of 1864 (13 Stat. 358) enlarges those limits, and declares that the grant by it, or the act to'which it
is an amendment, "shall not defeat or impair any pre-emption, homestead,
swamp-land, or other lawful claim, nor include any government reservation
or mineral lands, or the improvements of any bona Jide settler." Reid,
that lands within the boundaries of an alleged Mexican or Spanish grant,
which was sub judice at the time the Secretary of the Interior ordered a
withdrawal of lands along the route of the road, are not embraced by the
grant to the company.
2. The words "public lands'" are used in our legislation to describe such lands
as are subject to sale or other disposition under general laws.
8. The fiction of law, that a term consists of but one day, cannot be invoked to
antedate the judicial rejection of a claim, so as to render operative a grant
which would otherwise be without effect.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of California.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Montgomery Blairfor
the appellant, and by Mr. aeorge F. Bdmund8 for the appellee.
AIR. JUSTICE DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.

The object of this suit is to determine the ownership of a
quarter-section of land in California.

The appellee, who was

the complainant, claims through the Western Pacific Railroad
Company, to whom a patent was issued in 1870, in professed
compliance with the requirements of the acts of Congress com-

monly known as the Pacific Railroad Acts. The appellant
derives title by mesne conveyances from one Ransom Dayton,
the holder of a patent of a later date, which recites that the
land was within the exterior limits of a Mexican grant called

\1oquelamos, and that a patent had, by mistake, been issued to
the company. The court below decreed that the appellee was
the owner in fee-simple of the disputed premises; and that the
junior patent, so far as it related to them, should be cancelled.
The act of July 1, 1862 (12 Stat. 492), grants to certain

NEWHALL v.

SANGER.

[Sup. Ot.

railroad companies, of which the Western Pacific, by subsequent legislation, became one, every alternate section of publia
land designated by odd numbers, within ten miles of each side
of their respective roads, not sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of by the United States, and to which a homestead or
pre-emption'claim may not have attached at the time the line
of the road is definitely fixed. It requires that, within a prescribed time, a map designating the general route of each road
shall b filed in the Department of the Interior, and that the
Secretaiy thereof shall then cause the lands within a certain
distance from such route to be withdrawn from pre-emption,
private entry, and sale. -The precise date when the Western
Pacific Company filed its map is not stated in the record; but
we infer that it was between the first day of the December
Term (1864) of this court and the thirteenth day of February,
1865. At all events, the withdrawal for this road was made on
the 81st of January, 1865; and our records show that the M\oquelamos grant, which had been regularly presented to the commissioners, under the act of March 8, 1851, ana duly prosecuted
by appeal, was rejected here Feb. 13, 1865. It is a conceded
fact, that the lands embraced by it fall within the limits of the
railroad grant, which were enlarged by the amendatory act of
1864 (18 Stat. p. 858). This act also declares that any lands
granted by it, or the act to which it is an amendment, "shall
not defeat or impair any pre-emption, homestead, swamp-land,
or other lawful claim, nor include any government reservation
or mineral lands, or the improvements of any bona fide settler."
There can be no doubt that, by the withdrawal, the grant
took effect upon such odd-numbered sections of public lands
within the specified limits as were not excluded from its operation; and the question arises, whether lands within the boundaries of an alleged Mexican or Spanish grant, which was then
Pub judice, are public within the meaning of the acts of Congress under which the patent, whereon the appellee's title rests,
was issued to the railroad company.
The subject of grants of land to aid in constructing works of
internal improvement was fully considered at the present term,
in Leavenwort1h, -Lawrence, and Galveston Railroad Company v.
United States, supra,p. 783. We held that they did not embrace

Oct. 1875.]

NEWHALL V. SANGER.

tracts reserved by competent authority for any purpose or in
any manner, although no exception of them was made in the
grants themselves; and we confined a grant of every alternate
section of "land" to such whereto the complete title was absolutely vested in the United States. The acts which govern this
case are more explicit, and leave less room for construction.
The words "public lands" are habitually used in our legislation
to describe such as are subject to sale or other disposal under
general laws. That they were so employed in this instance is
evident from the fact, that to them alone could the order withdrawing lands from pre-emption, private entry, and sale, apply.
The status of lands included in a Spanish or Mexican claim,
pending before the tribunals charged with the duty of adjudicating it, must be determined by the condition of things which
existed in California at the time it was ceded, and by our subsequent legislation. The rights of private property, so far
from having been impaired by the change of sovereignty and
jurisdiction, were fully secured by the law of nations, as well
as by treaty stipulation. It had been the practice of Mexico
to grant large tracts to individuals, sometimes as a reward for
meritorious public services, but generally with a view to invite
emigration and promote the settlement of her vacant territory.
The country, although sparsely populated, was dotted over
with land claims. Exact information in regard to their extent and validity could hardly be obtained during the eager
search for gold which prevailed soon after we acquired California. It was not until March 8, 1851, that our government
created a commission to receive, examine, and determine them.
As the operations of our land system, had it then been extended to California, would have produced the utmost confusion
in titles to real estate within her limits, it was wisely withheld
by Congress, until such claims should be disposed of. The
act of that date declared that all lands, the claims to which
should not have been presented within two years therefrom,
should "be deemed, held, and considered to be a part of the
public domain of the United States." This was notice to all
the world that lands in California were held in reserve to
afford a reasonable time to the claimant under an asserted
Mexican or Spanish grant to maintain his rights before the

NEWHALL V. SANGER.

[Sup. Ct.

commission. He was not bound by its adverse decision; but
was entitled to have it reviewed by the District Court, with a
right of ultimate appeal to the Supreme Court. If he, however, neglected to take timely and proper steps to obtain such
review, the decision was thereby rendered final and conclusive.
The lands then fell into the category of public lafids. The
same remark will apply to the judgment of the District Court;
but if he prosecuted his appeal to the tribunal of last resort,
the reserved lands retained their original character in all the
successive stages of the cause, and they were regarded as forming a part of our national domain only after the claim covering
them had been "finally decided to be invalid."
A failure, therefore, to present the claim within the required
time, or a rejection of it either by the commission or by the
District Court, without seeking to obtain a review of their
respective decisions, or by this court, rendered it unnecessary
to further reserve the claimed lands from settlement and appropriation. They then became public in the just meaning of
that term, and were subject to the disposing power of Congress.
It may be said that the whole of California was part of our
domain, as we acquired it by treaty, and exercised dominion
over it. The obvious answer to all inferences from this acknowledged fact, so far as they relate to this case) is, that the
title to so much of the soil as was vested in individual proprietorship did not pass to the United States. It took the
remaining lands subject to all the equitable rights of private
property therein which existed at the time of the transfer. Claims, whether grounded upon an inchoate or a perfected title, were to be ascertained and adequately protected.
This duty, enjoined by a sense of natural justice and by
treaty obligations, could only be discharged by prohibiting
,intrusion upon the claimed lands until an opportunity was
afforded the parties in interest for a judicial hearing and determination. It was to be expected that unfounded and fraudulent
claims would be presented for confirmation. There was, in the
opinion of Congress, no mode of separating them from those
which were valid without investigation by a competent tribunal and our legislation was so shaped that no title could be
-initiated under the laws of the United States to lands covered

Oct. 1875.]

NEWHALL V. SANGER.

by a Spanish or Mexican claim, until it was barred by lapse
of time or rejected.
This is, in our opinion, the true interpretation of the act of
1851. Until recently, it governed the action of the Interior Department upon the advice of the law officers of the government
(11 Op. Att'y-Gen. 493; 13 id. 388), and was, at least by implication, sanctioned by this court in _Frisbie v. Whitney, 9 Wall.
187. No subsequent legislation conflicts with it. On the contrary, the excepting words in the sixth section of the act of
March 3, 1853, introducing the land system into California (10
Stat. 246), clearly denote that lands such as these at the time of
their withdrawal were not considered by Congress as in a condition to be acquired by individuals or granted to corporations.
This section expressly excludes from pre-emption and sale all
lands claimed under any foreign grant or title. It is said that this
means "lawfully" claimed; but there is no authority to import
a word into a statute in order to change its meaning. Congress
did not prejudge any claim to be unlawful, but submitted them
all for adjudication. Besides the act of March 3, 1853, which
authorized the settlement and purchase of the lands released
by the operation of the law of 1851, there was a general law
(id. 244) passed on the same day, which conferred upon a settler on lands theretofore reserved on account of claims under
foreign grants, then or thereafter declared by the Supreme
Court to be invalid, the rights granted by the pre-emption law,
after the lands should have been released from reservation, a class of lands which, from an early day, it had been the policy
to reserve until the adjustment of all such claims. See act
of 1811, 2 Stat., pp. 664, 665, sects. 6, 10. This provision
clearly implies that no right of pre-emption previously attached to lands of that description by reason ,of settlement
and cultivation.
It is unnecessary to dwell longer upon this question, or to
review subsequent statutes touching the government lands in
California. It suffices to say, that there is nothing in any of
them which weakens the construction we have given to the act
of 1851. This controversy depends upon that act and the
Pacific Railroad acts which we have cited.
The appellee invokes the doctrine, that judgments of a court

NEWHALL V. SANGER.

[Sup. Ct.

during a term are, by relation, considered as having been rendered on the first day thereof. There is a fiction of law that a
term consists of but one day; but such a fiction is tolerated by
the courts only for the purposes of justice. Gibson v. Chouteau,
13 Wall. 92. To antedate the judicial rejection of a claim,
so as to render operative a grant which would be otherwise
without effect, does not promote the ends of justice, and cannot
be sanctioned.
As the premises in controversy were not public lands, either
at the date of the grant or of their withdrawal, it follows that
they did not pass to the railroad company.
Decree reversed, and cause remanded with directionsto dismiss
the bill.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
STROEG, dissenting.

I am not able to agree with the majority of the court in this
case. The only exception made by Congress from its grant to
the Western Pacific Railroad Company consisted of lands
within certain limits, which, at the time the line of the road
was definitely fixed, had been "sold, reserved, or otherwise
disposed of by the United States," or to which a pre-emption
or homestead claim had then attached. The exception was
intended to keep the public lands open to settlement and sale
until the line of the road was established. I cannot understand
how the presentation of a fraudulent claim to any portion of
the lands within the limits designated, founded upon an invalid
or forged Mexican grant, could change their character as public
lands, or impair the title of the company, or have any other effect
than to subject the company to the annoyance and expense of
exposing and defeating the claim. Nor can I perceive the
bearing upon the case of the act of March 3, 1853, "to extend
pre-emption rights to certain lands therein mentioned;" for
that act applies only to pre-emption rights, and by its terms is
limited to lands previously reserved.
I think the judgment of the court below should be affirmed.

