WALKER V.

SAUVINET.

[Sup. Ct.

this carries him beyond the six months, it is his own fault,
and he should not complain. Brown v. Sauerwien, 10 Wall.
218; Te Collector v. Hubbard, 12 id. 1. We find no error in
the record.
Judgment affirmed.

WAI=R v. SAUVn, T.
1 A trial by jury in suits at common law pending in the State courts is not a
privilege or immunity of national citizenship which the States are for.
bidden by the :Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States to abridge.
2. Questions presented bythe assignment of error cannot be considered here,
unless the record shows that they were brought to the attention of the court
below.

ERORn to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
This is an action brought by Sauvinet against Walker, a
licensed keeper of a coffee-house in New Orleans, for refusing
him refreshments when called for, on the ground that he was a
man of color.
Art. 13 of the Constitution of Louisiana provides that "all
persons shall enjoy equal rights and privileges upon any conveyance of a public character; and all places of business or of
public resort, or for which a license is required by either state,
parish, or municipal authority, shall be deemed places of a public character, and shall be open to the accommodation and
patronage of all persons, without distinction or discrimination
on account of race or color." On the 23d February, 1869, an
act was passed by the general assembly of the State, entitled
"An Act to enforce the thirteenth article of the Constitution of
this State, and to regulate the licenses mentioned in said thirteenth article." Sect. 3 of this act is as follows: " SECT. 3. That all licenses hereafter granted by this State, and
by all parishes and municipalities therein, to persons engaged in

business, or keeping places of public resort, shall contain the express
condition, that the place of business or public resort shall be open
to the accommodation and patronage of all persons, without distinction or discrimination on account of race or color; and any

Oct. 1875.]

OWALKER V.

SAUVINET.

person who shall violate the condition of such license shall, on
conviction thereof, be punished by forfeiture of his license, and
his place of business or public resort shall be closed, and, moreover, [he] shall be liable at the suit of the person aggrieved to such
dai iages as he shall sustain thereby, before any court of competent
jurisdiction."
On the 27th February, 1871, another act was passed, entitled
"An Act to regulate the mode of trying cases arising under the
provisions of article thirteen (13) of the Constitution of Louisiana, or under any acts of the legislature to enforce the said
article thirteen of the said Constitution, and to regulate the
licenses therein mentioned."
Sects. 1 and 2 of this act are as follows:" SECTION 1. -Be it enacted by the Senate and Hfouse of Representatives of the State of -Louisianain general assembly convened,
That all cases brought for the purpose of vindicating, asserting,
or maintaining the rights, privileges, and immunities guaranteed to
all persons under the provisions of the article thirteen of the
Constitution of Louisiana, or under the provisions of any acts of
the legislature to enforce the said article thirteen, and to regulate
the licenses therein mentioned, or for the purpose of recovering
damages for the violation of said rights, privileges, and immunities, shall be tried by the court, or by a jury if any party to the
suit prays for a trial by jury.
"SECT. 2. Be it further enacted, &c., That if the jury do not
agree, or fail to render a verdict, either for the plaintiff or defendant,
the jury shall be discharged, and the case shall be immediately submitted to the judge upon the pleadings and evidence already on
file, as if the case had been originally tried without the intervention,
of a jury; and it shall be the duty of the judge to decide the case
at once, without any further proceedings, arguments, continuance,
or delay; each party having the right to appeal to the Supreme
Court in all cases where an appeal is allowed by law."

Walker in his answer denied all the allegations in the petition, and prayed for a trial by jury. The cause was thereupon
tried by a jury, who failed to agree. This having been entered
upon the minutes, Sauvinet, by his counsel, moved that the
court proceed to decide the case under the provisions of sect. 2
of the act of 1871. To this Walker objected, alleging for
cause that the act was unconstitutional, but without specifying

WALKER v. SAUVINr[

[Sup. Ot.

in what particular. Time was given counsel to file briefs upon
the constitutional question; and at a later day, after consideration, a judgment was rendered against Walker for $1,000. That
judgment was affirmed upon appeal to the Supreme Court of
the State: whereupon Walker sued out this writ of error.
Mr. C. T. Hornor for the plaintiff in error.
The act of the legislature of Louisiana of Feb. 27, 1871,
under which the proceedings in this case.were had, abridges
the piivileges and immunities of citizens of the United States,
and is, therefore, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution. Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 72 et seg.;
Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 id. 129.
Mr. J. Q. A. Fellows, contra.
MR. CHIF JUSTiCE WAiTE, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
So far as we can discover from the record, the only Federal
question decided by either one of the courts below was that
which related to the right of Walker to demand a trial by jury,
notwithstanding the provisions of 'the act of 1871 to the contrary. He insisted that he had a constitutional right to such a
trial, and that the statute was void to the extent that it deprived him of this right.
All questions arising under the Constitution of the State
alone are finally settled by the judgment below. We can
consider only such as grow out of the Constitution of the
United States. By art. 7 of the amendments, it is provided,
-that "in suits at common law, where the value in controversy
shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall
be preserved." This, as has been many times decided, relates
only to trials in the courts of the United States. .Edwards
v. Elliot, 21 Wall. 557. The States, so far as this amendment
is concerned, are left to regulate trials in their own courts
in their own way. A trial by jury in suits at common law
pending in the State courts is not, therefore, a privilege or
immunity of national citizenship, which the States are forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment to abridge. A State cannot deprive a person of his property without due process of
law; but this does not necessarily imply that all trials in the

Oct. 1875.]

M1AGEE ET AL. V. M1ANHATTAN LIFE INS.

Co.

93

State courts affecting the property of persons must be by jury.
This requirement of the Constitution is met if the trial is had
according to the settled course of judicial proceedings. AiIurray's Lessee v. Hoboken L. g I Co., 18 How. 280. Due process
of law is process due according to the law of the land. This
process in the States is regulated by the law of the State.
Our power over that law is only to determine whether it is in,
conflict with the supreme law of the land, - that is to say, with
the Constitution and laws of the United States made in pursuance thereof, - or with any treaty made under the authority
of the United States. Art. 6 Const. Here the State court
has decided that the proceeding below was in accordance -with
the law of the State; and we do not find that to be contrary to
the Constitution, or any law or treaty of the United States.
The other questions presented by the assignment of errors
and argued here cannot be considered, as the record does not
show that they were brought to the attention of either of the
courts below.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTCE FIELD and A~iR. JUSTWIo CI'=0RD dissented
from the opinion and judgment of the court.

MAGEE ET AL. v. MArTTA,

LiFE IISUIA.cTE CO

'Axy.

In a suit by a company organized under the laws of the State of New York against
citizens of the State of Alabama, on a bond conditioned for the faithful performance of duty, and the payment of money received for it, executed by the

agent of the company who transacted business as such in the city of Mobile,
where he resided, and by them as his sureties, the latter pleaded that the company, as a condition upon which it would retain in its employment the agent

then largely indebted to it, required such bond, and also his agreement to
apply all his commissions thereafter earned to his former indebtedness to it;
that the agreement was made, and the commissions were so applied; that the
company knew that the agent had no property, and depended upon his future
acquisitions for the support of himself and family; that the defendants were

ignorant of such indebtedness and agreement; that, had they been informed
thereof, they would not have executed the bond; that the agreement as to the
commissions and its performance were a fraud on them; and that the bond as to
them was thereby avoided. Held, that the plea was bad, as it set forth neither
the circumstances attending the delivery of the bond, nor averred misrepre-

