454

TERRY V. COMMERCIAL BANK OF ALABAMA.

LSup. bt.

The question in the case, therefore, really was, whether the
importers made their protest in accordance with the act of
1845; namely, at or before paying the duties complained of.
It is not denied that they did this so far as relates to the additional charge of $1,182.72: but they claim a return of more
-than this; and, under the charge of the'court, they obtained a
verdict for nearly double this amount, which would include
some portion of the money paid by them without protest when
the goods were first entered. This was erroneous.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with directions to
award a venire de novo.

T.RRY

v. ComracIAL BANK

oF ALABAyA.

1. The holder of the notes of an insolvent bank, the stockholders whereof are
liable for so much of the just claims of creditors as remain unpaid after the
assets of the bank shall be exhausted, filed a bill in equity to wind up the
affairs of the institution under the provisions of its charter. The stockholders were not made parties, nor served with process ; nor was any motion,
petition, or prayer, filed to subject them to liability. Held, that so much of
the final decree as discharged them from all liability for and on account of
any debt or demand against them or the bank was erroneous.
2. Where, after a final decree on the merits had been rendered upon the report
of the receiver and upon the reports of the master to whom it bad been referred, all of which had been confirmed without exception, the complainant
filed a petition supported by his affidavit asserting that his solicitor had deserted his interests, failed to except to the reports, and improperly consented
to the decree, - Held, that this court cannot consider the alleged errors in
the reports of the master, or review the action of the court below in refusing
to set aside the decree upon an application addressed mainly to its discretion.
8. If the complainant desired to place the case in a position where the action of
the court below could be reviewed here, he should have filed his bill of review, and supported it by depositions. Such a bill is also the appropriate
remedy where a decree has been obtained by fraud.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama.
Mr. Harvey Terry for the appellant.
No opposing counsel.

MR. JUsTICE MILEm delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant, the Commercial Bank of Alabama, was a

Oct. 1875.]

TERRY v. COMMERCIAL BANE oF ALABAMA.

455

banking corporation organized under the laws of that State,
and had become insolvent. The appellant, a citizen of the
State of South Carolina, brought a suit in the District Court
ior the Middle District of Alabama, at that time exercising
circuit-court powers, to wind up the bank under the provisions
of the twenty-first section of its charter. Plaintiff alleged and
proved that he was the owner of about $3,000 of the notes of
the bank, on which he had demanded payment, and been refused. The bank admitted its insolvency; and a receiver was
appointed by consent to wind up its affairs, and publication
made for all creditors to come in and prove their claims. The
receiver made his report, which was referred to a master, who
also reported.
These reports, and several supplemental reports, were all
confirmed without exceptions, and a final order of distribution
made among those who had proved their claims, allowing first
the costs of the proceeding, including attorney's fees and other
costs of suit. All of these were referred to a master, who reported, and to whose report no exceptions were taken.
After all this was done, the appellant here and plaintiff below
appeared in person, and filed numerous petitions and affidavits
signed by himself, excepting to the decree, asking to set it aside,
excepting to the reports, and suggesting many other matters and
things in which he sought to modify or correct the decree.
The foundation of all this seems to be the charge that his
counsel deserted his interest, failed to except to the reports, and
consented to the decree because they.received what he called an
exorbitant allowance for their services out of the fund which
should have gone to the creditors of tlie bank, thereby diminishing the amount of his dividend.
As to all this, it is sufficient to say that these motions cannot
be considered here. They are mainly addressed to the discretion of the court, c6 ming as they do after a final decree on the
merits. If appellant desired to place the case in a position
where this court could review the action of the co.urt on that
class of questions, he should have filed his bill of review and
made the proper issues, and supported it by depositions. As it
now stands, his motions are unsupported by any thing but his
own affidavit.

456

TERRY V. COM IERCIAL BANK OF ALABAMA.

[Sup Ct.

So as to the errors alleged in the master's reports. There
were no exceptions filed to these reports until after they were
confirmed and a final order of distribution made. This court
cannot review those reports on exceptions taken after that,
and urged upon us now on appeal. If, as appellant alleges, he
has been defrauded by his counsel, he must sue them for what
he has lost by the fraud.
If he desire to set aside the decree because it was obtained
by fraud, his remedy is by bill of review.
But he complains of one error in the decree which is shown
on the face of the proceedings, and as to which he is, we think,
entitled to have it reversed.
.It appears that the creditors of the bank have not been paid
the full amount of their claims, as allowed by the master, and
confirmed by the court. By the law of the charter, the stockholders are liable to be called on for contribution to make up
this deficit. They have not been made parties to this proceeding. No rule or process has been served on them, nor any
motion or petition or prayer filed to subject them to liability.
The decree, however, orders "that the said Commercial Bank
of Alabama, its officers and stociciwlders, be, and 'they are
hereby, for ever discharged from any and all liability for or on
account of any debt or demand of whatsoever nature, now or
hereafter, subsisting against the bank and officers or stockholders of the same."
We see nothing in the proceedings to authorize the part of
the decree which relates to the stockholders. Their liability
has not been put in issue by any pleading, notice, or paper in the
cause; and while, under these circumstances, this part of the
decree may be void for that reason, we still think appellant has
the right to have it removed out of the way of his proceeding
against these shareholders, if he should desire to do so.
* The decree of the District Court is affirmed as to all but this
part of it, and the case is remanded to the Circuit Court for
the Southern District of Alabama, to which, by law, it has been
transferred, with directions to modify the decree in that respect,
as indicated in this opinion; and, when so modified,
The decree is affirmed, apvellant to recover costs of appeal.

