REPORTS OF THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERM, 1878.

WOLF v. STIX.
1. If goods sold by a debtor with intent to defraud his creditors are attached as
his property in a chancery suit to recover a debt and set aside the sale,
which is brought against him and the purchaser, and the latter, with sureties, *executes to the complainants a replevin bond, authorized by statute,
and conditioned that he, claiming the goods as his property, will pay the
ascertained value of them as expressed in the bond, should he be cast in
the suit, and they be decreed to be subject to the attachment, and liable
thereunder to the satisfaction of the debt sued for, his liability on the bond
is not a debt created by fraud within sect. 6117 of the Revised Statutes, which
provides that such a debt shall not be barred by a discharge in bankruptcy;
but if the petition in bankruptcy was filed after the execution of the bond,
and before the rendition of the decree determining the right of property in
the goods, his liability is a contingent one, which, under sect. 6068 of the
Revised Statutes, is provable against his estate in the proper bankrupt court.
2. His discharge in bankruptcy releases him from further liability, but does
not affect that of his sureties on the bond.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee.
On the 8th of December, 1866, Louis Stix & Co. commenced
a suit in the Chancery Court of Shelby County, Tennessee,
against Marks, Pump, & Co. and M. Wolf, to recover a debt
owing by Marks, Pump, & Co., and to set aside a sale of goods
by the latter firm to Wolf, on the ground, as alleged, that it
had been made to defraud creditors. In accordance with the
APPEAL

VOL. IX.

1

WOLF v. STIX.

[Sup. Ct.

practice in that State, a writ of attachment was sued out and
levied upon the goods in the possession of Wolf.
The Code of Tennessee provides that (sect. 3509) "the
defendant to an attachment suit may always replevy the property attached by giving bond with good security, payable to
the plaintiff, in double the amount of the plaintiff's demand,
or, at defendant's option, in double the value of the property
attached, conditioned to pay the debt, interest, and costs, or
the value of the property attached, with interest, as the case
may be, in the event he shall be cast in the suit; " and that
(sect. 3514) "the court may enter up judgment or decree
upon the bond, in the event of recovery by the plaintiff,
against the defendant and his sureties for the penalty of the
bond, to be satisfied by delivery of the property or its value,
or payment of the recovery, as the case may be." As soon
as the attachment was served, Wolf moved the court to ascertain the value of the goods and fix the amount of the bond to
be given in replevying them. This was done, and the value
ascertained to be $10,000; and on the 24th of December, 1866,
Wolf, as principal, and Lowenstein and Helman, as his sureties,
filed in the cause their bond, a copy of which is as follows: "We, Ml. Wolf, as principal, and Elias Lowenstein and Leon Helman, as sureties, hereby bind ourselves unto Louis Stix & Co. in
the sum of $20,000.
"The condition of the above bond is that, whereas, in the suit
now pending in the Chancery Court at Memphis, in favor of said
Louis Stix & Co. and against Marks, Pump, & Co., and in which
said Wolf is joined as a defendant, an attachment has been issued
against said Marks, Pump, & Co. for 818,699.54, besides interest and
costs, and has been levied upon a stock of goods and other property
as the property of said Marks, Pump, & Co., which were in the
possession of said M. Wolf, and were and are claimed by him as
his property; and this bond is given by him for the purpose of replevying said stock of goods and other property attached, being,
altogether, as it is agreed by the parties, of the value of ten thousand ($10,000) dollars. Now, in the event said M. Wolf shall be
cast in said suit, and said stock of goods and other property shall
be found and decreed by the court to have been subject to said
attachment, and liable thereunder to the satisfaction of the debts
of complainants against Marks, Pump, & Co., then and in that

Oct. 1878.]

WOLF V. STIX.

event, should said Wolf pay to complainants, as the court may
order and direct, the said sum of $10,000, the value of said stock
of goods and other property, with interest thereon from this date,
this bond shall be void, otherwise to remain in full force and
effect.
"Witness our hands and seals, thisday of December, 1866.
[L. s.]
"IM.WOLF.
"EIAs LowENsTEiN.
"L. HELMAN."

[L. s.]
[L. s.]

The property attached was thereupon surrendered to Wolf.
All the members of the firm of Marks, Pump, & Co. were afterwards discharged in bankruptcy, and in due time, by leave of
the court, they severally filed formal pleas setting up their
respective discharges. Wolf put in his answer, claiming title
to the goods and denying all fraud. Testimony was taken;
and on the 13th of December, 1872, after hearing, the Chancery Court found and decreed that there was no fraud in the
sale to Wolf, and dismissed the suit as to him. As Marks,
Pump, & Co. had been discharged in bankruptcy, it was also
dismissed as to them. From this decree Stix & Co. appealed
to the Supreme Court on the 21st of March, 1873. On the
28th of March, 1874, Wolf obtained on his petition therefor a discharge under the bankrupt law. On the 28th of
April, 1877, the Supreme Court, upon hearing, reversed the
decree of the Chancery Court, and, after finding the amount
due from Marks, Pump, & Co., and ordering a recovery, concluded as follows "And this court being of opinion, as before recited, that said sale
was fraudulent and void, and that said stock of goods, fixtures, &c.,.
so attached and replevied, were subject to said attachment, and liable for complainants' said debt. And it further appearing from
simple calculation that said sum of $10,000, with interest from
the date of said bond, Dec. 24, 1866, to the present time, amounts
to the sum of $16,200: it is, therefore, further ordered, adjudged,
and decreed by the court, that said fraudulent sale be and is
hereby set aside, and for naught held, as to complainants' said
debts herein against defendants Marks, Pump, & Co., and that the
complainants Louis Stix & Co. in their own right, and also for
the use of Rinskoff Bros. & Co., do have and recover of and from
the defendant M. Wolf, and Elias Lowenstein and L. Helman his

WOLF V. STIX.

[Sup. Ct.

sureties on the aforesaid replevin bond, the said sum of $16,200, the
value of the property replevied, and interest thereon to this date,
for which execution may issue. And it further appearing from the
record that the said defendants, Marks, Pump, & Co., have been
since the filing of complainants' bill discharged in bankruptcy, no
execution is awarded against them for complainants' recoveries
herein ; and the cost of this cause, and the court below, will be
paid out of the said recovery of 816,200, against defendant Al. Wolf
and his aforesaid sureties on replevin bond."
On the third day of May, 1877, after this decree was rendered,
Wolf and his sureties petitioned the court for leave to come in
and plead in that court the discharge of Wolf in bankruptcy;
but this was denied, as no new defence could be made in that
court, and it was not allowable to set up the defence of bankruptcy by any proceedings there for that purpose.
On the 26th of May, 1877, these appellants filed this bill in
the Chancery Court of Shelby County, setting forth the facts
substantially as above stated, and praying that the judgment
or decree of the Supreme Court might be decreed to be satisfied, and of no force and effect, by reason of the discharge of
Wolf in bankruptcy, and that Stix & Co. might be enjoined
from enforcing the collection.
The case was afterwards removed to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Tennessee. The
answer of Stix & Co. does not deny any of the material facts
alleged in the bill, but sets up as a defence: 1. That the discharge of Wolf does not release him from his
liability upon the decree of the Supreme Court, because the
decree is founded upon a debt created by fraud;
2. That if Wolf is discharged, his co-complainants, the sureties upon his bond, are not; and,
3. That the appellants have been guilty of such laches as to
cut them off from relief in a court of equity.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and from a decree to
that effect this appeal has been taken; the appellants assigning
for error that the court below erred, 1. In dismissing the bill;
2. In not decreeing that the appellees should be perpetually
enjoined from enforcing the decree rendered by the Supreme
Court of Tennessee in their favor against the appellants.

Oct. 1878.]

WOLF V. STIX.

Mr. William X. Bandolph and Mr. Henry Craft for the
appellants.
The Code of Tennessee (sect. 8509) gave Wolf the right to
execute the bond and replevy the goods, which were then in
the custody of the law. His doing so cannot, therefore, by the
most strained construction of the act of Congress, be regarded
as creating a debt by fraud or embezzlement; executo juris non
habet ivjuriam. There must be positive fraud or fraud in
fact. Neal v. Clark, 95 U. S. 704. The debt arose out of the
bond which he executed to the appellees, for it cannot be
seriously insisted that he incurred any other liability to them;
and they, as parties to that instrument, are estopped from showing that it was tainted with fraud.. Palmer v. Preston, 45 Vt.
154; Sherman v. Strauss, 52 N. Y. 404; Brown v. Broach, 52
Miss. 536; Fowler v. Treadwell, 24 Me. 377; Jones v. Knox,
46 Ala. 53. The conveyance under which he held them when
they were attached has no connection with the bond, and his
liability upon. the latter was extinguished by his discharge in
bankruptcy.
In order that the bond shall remain in full force and effect
as to the sureties, Wolf must be "cast" in the attachment suit.
He cannot, by reason of his discharge in bankruptcy, be so
cast, as under the decision of this court in Wolf v. Stix (96
U. S.541) he is, inview of the peculiar practice which prevails in Tennessee, entitled to relief by this bill, and it furnishes him an appropriate and efficient remedy for asserting
the rights and exemptions which that discharge secures. The
decree of the Supreme Court has no validity against him; and
it could not have been rendered if the rules of that court had
permitted him to plead the discharge granted to him after the
appeal had been taken, and when it was pending there. The
contingency, therefore, upon which the liability of the sureties
depends- a valid decree or judgment against him which can
be enforced -has
not arisen, and it cannot arise. The condition of the bond has been discharged, and they are released.
Smith v. Eakin, 2 Sneed (Tenn.), 456; Carren v. Breed,
2 Cold. (Tenn.) 465; Payne v. Able, 7 Bush (Ky.), 344; Odell
v. Worten, 38 Ga. 224; Loring v. Eager, 8 Cush. (Mass.) 188;
Carpenter v. Turrell, 100 Mass. 450; Hamilton v. Bryant, 114

WOLF V. STIX.

[Sup. Ct.

id. 543; Braley v. Boomer, 116 id. 127; Williams v. Atkinson,
36 Tex. 16; Nettleton v. Billings, 17 N. 1H. 453; Kirby v.
Garrison, 1 Zab. (N. J.) 179; Barber v. Bodgers, 71 Pa. St.
362; Herbert v. Horter, 81 id. 39.
Wolf's discharge will be of no practical benefit to him,
so far as the liability in question is concerned, if his sureties be bound. If they are compelled to pay, his liability
to them at once accrues. Loring v. .Kendall, 67 Mass.
305; Fowler v. Kendall, 44 Ie. 448; Ellis v. Ham, 28 id.
385; Leighton v. Atkins, 35 id. 118; Holbrook v. Fox, 27 id.
441; Porterv. McDonald, 32 id. 418; Pogue v. Joyner, 6 Ark.
241.
Mr. Josiah Patterson,contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause may be considered as supplementary to that of
Wolf v. Stix, 96 U. S. 541. It is in fact the suit in chancery
referred to in the opinion in that case as furnishing the complainants an appropriate remedy for enforcing their rights
growing out of the discharge of Wolf in bankruptcy during the
pendency of the original cause on appeal in the Supreme Court,
and before the final judgment as rendered in that court. In
addition to Anderson v. Beaves, cited in the argument of the
other case, we are now referred to the following cases as establishing the same practice: Ward v. Tunstall, 58 Tenn. 319;
Biggs v. White, 4 Heisk. (Tenn.) 503 ; and Longley v. Swayne,
id. 506. In Ward v. Tunslall the rule is thus stated: "On
the record when presented, to which we can alone look, in our
view of the case, a judgment can be rendered, and then if the
debtor desires to be relieved he will find no difficulty in being
protected from payment of improper judgments in the bankrupt
court, or by an original proceeding in the State court, where he
can make such issues as will raise the question, and as he is
precluded from interposing his defence arising out of his bankruptcy, the judgment will not interfere with his case in any
way." But it is unnecessary to pursue this branch of the case
further, as we do not understand that the position assumed by
the appellants is disputed.

Oct. 1878.]

WOLF

!V.

STIX.

The two questions which have alone been argued here in behalf of the appellees are :1. Whether the liability of Wolf was one created by fraud,
within the meaning of sect. 5117, Rev. Stat., which provides
that "no debt created by fraud . . . shall be discharged in
bankruptcy." And,
2. Whether if Wolf was discharged his sureties were also.
1. As to Wolf.
In Neal v. Clark (95 U. S. 704) it was decided that " fraud,"
as used in this section of the bankrupt law, "means positive
fraud or fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude or intentional
wrong, as does embezzlement; and not implied fraud or fraud
in law, which may exist without imputation of bad faith
or immorality." With this definition we are content. It is
founded both on reason and authority. Clearly it does not include such fraud as the law implies from the purchase of proprty from a debtor with the intent thereby to hinder and delay
'his creditors in the collection of their debts. But if it did,'
-such a purchase does not create a debt from the purchaser to
the creditors. As between the debtor and the purchaser the
sale is good, but as between a creditor and the purchaser it is
-void. The purchaser does not subject himself to a liability to
pay to creditors the value of what he buys. All the risk he
runs is that the sale may be avoided, and the property reclaimed
for their benefit. To come within this exception in the Bankrupt Act the debt must be created by fraud. The debt of
Wolf in this case was not created by his purchase of the goods,
but by his bond to pay their value if he failed to sustain his
title. In this there was no fraud. It was a right the statute
gave him as the claimant of the property, and he availed himself of it in a lawful way. He thus perfected his title to the
goods by agreeing to pay their value if his original purchase
should be held to be invalid. A debt thus incurred cannot be
said to be created by fraud. It occupies in this respect the
same position it would if Wolf, acknowledging the invalidity
of his original purchase, had, without suit, given his note to
the creditors for the value of the goods in order to perfect his
title.
The debt thus created was provable under the Bankrupt Act.

WOLF v. STIX.

[Sup. Ct,

It was payable upon the happening of an event which might
never occur, and was, therefore, contingent. The bond was in
full force when the petition in bankruptcy was filed. The sum
to be paid was certain in amount. Whether the event would
ever occur which would require the payment was uncertain;
but if it did occur, the amount to be paid was fixed. This
clearly is such a case as was provided for in sect. 5068, Rev.
Stat., which is, that "in all cases of contingent debts and contingent liabilities contracted by the bankrupt, . . . the creditor
may make claim therefor, and have his claim allowed, with the
right to share in the dividends, if the contingency happens before the order for the final dividend." There is nothing in the
case of Biggin v. M1fagwire (15 Wall. 549) in conflict with this.
That case arose under the bankrupt law of 1841, which was
somewhat, though perhaps not materially, different from that
of 1867 in this particular, and not only the happening of the
event on which payment was to be made, but the amount to be
paid, was uncertain and contingent. The amount to be paid
depended materially upon the time when the event happened.
Every thing was uncertain. The obligation in this case is to
pay $10,000 and interest, if, upon the trial of the suit in the
progress of which the bond was executed, it should be adjudged
that the goods attached were subject to the attachment, and
liable thereunder to the satisfaction of the debt sued for. As,
therefore, the debt of Wolf was not created by fraud, and was
provable under the act, it follows that his discharge released
him from his liability on the bond. The discharge would
have been a bar to a judgment against him, if, before the judgment, it could have been pleaded as a defence to the action.
It follows that, under the practice which prevails in Tennessee
in this class of cases, Wolf is entitled to the relief he asks for
himself.
2. As to the sureties.
Sect. 5118, Rev. Stat., provides that "no discharge shall release, discharge, or affect any person liable for the same debt
for or with the bankrupt, either as partner, joint contractor,
indorser, surety, or otherwise." The cases are numerous in
which it has been held, and we think correctly, that if one is
,bound as surety for another to pay any judgment that may be

-Oct. 1878.]

WOLF V. STIX.

rendered in a specified action, if the judgment is defeated by
the bankruptcy of the person for whom the obligation is
assumed, the surety will be released. The obvious reason is
that the event has not happened on which the liability of the
surety was made to depend. Of this class of obligations are
the ordinary bonds in attachment suits to dissolve an attachment, appeal bonds, and the like. But here the bond was not
given to dissolve the attachment. That was issued against the
property of Marks, Pump, & Co.; and in order to get possession
of the goods which had been attached, and which Wolf claimed
as his own, he subjected his bond to the operation of the
attachment which was to continue in force, and took the goods
away. In legal effect, he purchased the interest of the creditors in the goods, and, with Lowenstein and Relman as his
sureties, agreed to pay the creditors $10,000, if, upon the trial
of the suit in which the attachment was issued, it should appear that they had any interest to sell. In this obligation
Lowenstein and Helman were jointly bound with Wolf, and
-their liability was made to depend, not upon the recovery of a
money judgment against him, but upon a judgment that the
title he acquired by his purchase from Marks, Pump, & Co. was
void as against the attaching creditors. The case stands precisely the same as it would if Wolf and his sureties had entered
into a contract with the attaching creditors, in a form authorized
by law, to take the goods from the sheriff and pay $10,000,
if on the trial it should be determined that the attachment was
valid, and this was a suit on that contract. Clearly, under
such 6ircumstances, it could not be successfully contended that
Wolf's bankruptcy released his sureties.
As we understand the practice in Tennessee, the parties are
to have the same relief in this action they would have been entitled to in the original suit, if, before the judgment, Wolf's
discharge in bankruptcy could have been pleaded. This proceeding performs the office of such a plea, and enforces the
same rights.
Had the plea been filed, it would have shown a discharge of
Wolf from his liability, but not that of his sureties. They were
bound not to pay any judgment which might be rendered
against him, but to pay the debt he had agreed to pay in a

UNITED STATES V. FARDEN.

[Sup. Ct.

certain event, which bad happened. The judgment which the
Code of Tennessee authorizes in such cases is upon the bond
according to its tenor and effect, and if the principal debtor is
discharged his sureties must respond, as in other cases of joint
liability. They are no more released by his discharge than
they would be from a note or ordinary money bond which they
had signed as his sureties.
No question has been raised as to the effect of the bankruptcy of Marks, Pump, & Co., and it is unnecessary, therefore,
to take time to consider it.
'Our conclusion is, that as to Wolf the decree is erroneous,
and should be reversed, but as to Lowenstein and Helman, that
it was right, and should be affirmed.
The cause is remanded with instructions to modify the decree below in such manner as to give to Wolf the benefit of his
discharge in bankruptcy, as stated in this opinion, but to leave
it in all other respects in force. The costs in this appeal must
be paid by the appellees; and it is

So ordered.

UNITED STATES v.

FARDEX.

1. A., a collector of internal revenue, was suspended, Sept. 23, 1873, from office,
upon charges of fraud, by the supervisor, who reported his action to the
commissioner, in accordance with sect. 3163 of the Revised Statutes. The
Secretary of the Treasury, Sept. 26, directed B., the deputy collector of the
district, to assume the duties of collector, as of Sept. 23, in place of A.,
and to continue in office until some person should be appointed thereto
and duly qualified. A. died Oct. 16. A collector, appointed Nov. 9, took
the oath and gave the required bond, Dec. 1, but did not take possession of
the office until Dec. 10. B. performed the duties of collector from Sept.
23 to and including Dec. 9. Held, that B. was entitled to the compensation of collector during the whole period.
2. Under the last clause of the first section of the act of March 1, 1869 (15 Stat.
282), providing that a deputy collector of internal revenue shall not receive
compensation as collector, when the latter is entitled to compensation for
services rendered during the same period of time, a collector suspended
for fraud, and rendering no services thereafter, is not entitled to compensation so as to exclude the deputy collector therefrom; and the better opinion
is that that provision is repealed by its omission from 16 Stat. 179; Rev.
Stat., sect. 3150.

