BLOCK V. COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

ment of a court of competent jurisdiction rendered with the
parties, as in this case, properly before it. The recital in the
bonds sets forth the judgment of the county judge, that it was
duly rendered, that the bonds were issued pursuant to the statutes referred to, for the object specified in the petition of the
tax-payers, and by persons properly appointed and charged by
law with the duty of subscribing for the stock and issuing the
bonds to pay for it.
The sufficiency of the statutory authority under which the
proceedings were had is not denied.
Under such circumstances the recital is an estoppel. A bona
fide holder of the bonds was not bound to look further, and the
obligor cannot go behind it. Orleans v. Platt,supra; Lynde
v. The County, 16 Wall. 6; lMlereer County v. ifaccet, 1 Wall.
83 ; Commissioners of Knox County v. Aspinwall, 21 How. 539;
Township of Roec Creek v. Strong, 96 U. S. 271.
The learned judge below in his charge to the jury well remarked : " To imply the intent that such obligations after they
are negotiated shall be vulnerable to the objections here urged,
would be to impute bad faith to the authors of such legislation towards those who are to be induced to invest in such
bonds."
Judgment affirmed.

BLOCK v. COADiISSIONERS.

CONMaIISSIONERS v. BLOCK.
1. A., the lawful holder of coupons detached from bonds issued by a county in
Kansas, applied to a court of competent jurisdiction for a mandamus to
compel the county commissioners to pay such of them as were then due,
and levy a tax sufficient to pay those shortly thereafter falling due. The
commissioners denied the validity of the bonds and the obligation of the
county to pay them. Judgment was rendered for the defendants. Subsequently, A. delivered the same coupons to B., to be collected for the benefit
of A. B. brought suit. Held, that the judgment was a bar to the suit.
2. The court again decides that a bona fide purchaser of municipal bonds for a
valuable consideration, who had no actual notice of any defence which could
be set up against them, is not bound to look further than to see that there
was legislative authority for their issue, and that the officers who were
thereunto authorized have decided that the precedent conditions upon which

Oct. 1878.]

BLOCK V. COMI)TISSIONERS.

it was allowed to be exercised have been fulfilled. If such authority was
conferred and such a decision made, the bonds are valid obligations which
he may enforce.
3. Where, pursuant to a statute entitled "Au Act authorizing counties and cities
to issue bonds to railroad companies," approved Feb. 10, 1865, as amended
Feb. 26, 1866, an election was held in a county in Kansas upon the question of a county subscription to the capital stock of "any railroad company" then, or thereafter to be, organized which should construct a railroad
from a point in Missouri to a point in the county, and the result having,
May 8, 1867, been declared by the proper authorities to be in favor of the
subscription, and so entered on their minutes, the bonds were, in 1870, issued
in payment of the subscription to a Missouri company, which caused the
road to be built, -Held, that the subscription was binding, and that the
county, in an action on the bonds by such a purchaser, is estopped from
asserting that in fact a majority of the qualified electors had not voted in
favor of the issue of the bonds.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
This was an action brought, March 17, 1875, by Block,
against the board of commissioners of the county of Bourbon,
Kansas, upon overdue coupons, amounting in the aggregate to
$16,800, detached from bonds issued by that county.
A copy of one of the bonds and coupons is as follows: -

"No.-.

STATE OF KANSAS.

[$1,000.

"Stock Bond of Bourbon County.
"Thirty years after date, the County of Bourbon promise to pay
to the Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company, a corporation organized by authority of the laws of the State of Missouri, and by virtue
of an act of incorporation passed by the legislature of the State
aforesaid, and approved the sixteenth day of January, 1860, or
bearer, the sum of one thousand dollars, for value received, with
interest at the rate of seven per cent per anpum, payable seniannually, at the New York National Exchange Bank, in the city of
New York, from and after the first day of January, 1871.
"City of Fort Scott, Kansas, July 1, 1870.
"By order of the board of county commissioners of the county
of Bourbon, Kansas, dated March 8, 1867.
"D. GARDNER,
[SEAL.]
" Chairman, Board of County Commissioners, Bourbon County.

"Attest: C. FITCH, Clerk."
"FORT SCOTT, KANSAS, July 1, 1870.
"Treasurer of Bourbon County will pay bearer thirty-five dollars, at the New York National Exchange Bank, in the city of New

BLOCK V. COIMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

18-,
day of -,
York, being semi-annual interest due on the , to the Tebo and
on the bond of the county of Bourbon, No. Neosho Railroad Company, issued in pursuance of an order of the
board of county commissioners of said county, dated Mlarch 8,
1867.

I'D. GARDNER,
"Chairman, Bourbon Board of County Commissioners.
"C. FITCh, County Clerk."
Under its charter, granted Jan. 16, 1860, the company
had power to construct a road between certain points, and to
extend and operate it or its branches beyond the limits of
It transferred, in October, 1870, by authority of a
Missouri.
statute of that State, its franchises, rights, and privileges, "including subscriptions," south of a designated point, to the
Missouri, Kansas, and Texas Railway Company, a Kansas corThe latter company assumed all indebtedness inporation.
curred for the construction or otherwise of the line between
Sedalia, Mo., and Fort Scott, the county seat of said county,
and constructed in due time the road through that county, via
Fort Scott, to Texas. The road is now in full operation.
The said board, March 8, 1867, adopted an order, which was
duly entered on its minutes, as follows: "Be it ordered by the county commissioners of Bourbon County,
Kansas, that there be subscribed, in the name and for the benefit
of the county of Bourbon, in the State of Kansas, $150,000 to
the capital stock of any railroad company now organized or that
shall hereafter be organized that shall construct a railroad commencing at a point on the Tebo and Neosho Railroad, running
westward via Fort Scott, and that the bonds of said county be
issued to said company for the same, said bonds to be payable
within thirty years from the date thereof, and bearing interest
at the rate of seven (7) per centum per annum: Provided, that
said bonds shall not be issued until the question shall have been
submitted to a vote of the qualified electors of the county of
Bourbon, and shall have received a majority of the votes cast in
favor of the same, in pursuance of the provisions of an ' Act to authorize counties and cities to issue bonds to railroad companies,'
approved Feb. 10, 1865; and that said question shall be submitted
to said electors at a special election on the seventh day of May,
A.x. 1867.

Oct. 1878.]

BLOCK V. COtMISSIONERS.

"' At said election the votes shall be cast - For railroad bonds'
and ' Against railroad bonds;' and if it shall appear, upon a canvass of said votes by the proper officers, according to law, that a
majority of the votes cast are in favor of the said subscription, then
the above order shall be 6arried into practical operation by the
issuing of said bonds to said company whenever the county commissioners of Bourbon County are satisfied that the road-bed of the
Tebo and Neosho Railroad is completed to such a point that the
amount of said bonds shall be sufficient and adequate to construct
the road-bed and connect the said point with the city of Fort
Scott"

Said order was duly published, and the election held pursuant thereto. On canvassing the returns, the board declared,
May 10, 1867, tliat there was a majority of twenty-six votes
"for railroad bonds," and that there was no evidence that an
election had been held in the township of Franklin.
The poll-book from that township did not arrive at the clerk's
office until after the commissioners had adjourned.
The board, July 23, 1869, made a further order, providing
for a special election on the twenty-fourth day of the following August. The election was duly held accordingly, and
on canvassing the votes, the board declared that a majority of
them had been cast in favor of the proposed subscription.
The board thereupon appointed an agent to subscribe, in the
name and for the benefit of the county, $150,000 to the capital stock of said Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company, upon
the express condition, " which was made a part of said subscription," that the county bonds should not be delivered to
the company, nor the county becomie liable to pay any portion
of its subscription, until the road-bed of the company should
be completed to such a point that the amount of bonds should
be sufficient to complete the road from Sedalia, Mo., to Fort
Scott. There was a further condition that the subscription
should be void unless the road-bed was completed to Fort
Scott, Jan. 1, 1872.
The board, July 2, 1870, ordered that the bonds bearing
date July 1, 1870, of the tenor and effect of the foregoing
copy, be issued, and deposited with a certain person as trustee
of the county, for delivery to the company when the condiVOL. X.

44

BLOCK v. COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

tions upon which they had been voted should be complied
with.
The board, Jan. 2, 1871, upon a report made to it, approved the delivery, on the fifth day of November, 1870, of
the bonds to the company, the coupons covering interest from
July I to Sept. 1, 1870, having been detached therefrom.
The board, June 27, 1872, ordered that the poll-book of
Franklin Township of the election held May 7, 1867, which
had remained sealed since it had been delivered by the messenger of the township, should be opened. The board declared, after inspecting said book, that if the vote then cast
by that township had been computed in canvassing the county
vote, the proposition to vote the bonds would have been rejected.
The board thereupon ordered the treasurer of the county to
withhold the payment falling due on said bonds July 1, 1872,
and to notify the New York National Exchange Bank of the
City of New York, as the fiscal agent of the county, that no
more interest would be paid on them, and that the principal
would not be paid at maturity.
The county levied and collected taxes for 1870, 1871, and
1872, to pay interest on the bonds in suit, and paid the first
three instalments of interest thereon.
Certain coupons, on which this suit was brought, numbered
four, originally attached to said bonds, from one to one hundred, had been in controversy in a mandamus proceeding in
the Supreme Court of Kansas, instituted by one Lewis, then
and still the real and beneficial owner of them. They were
in possession of Block for collection.
The remaining facts are stated in the opinion of this court.
The Circuib Court gave judgment in favor of the county
on the coupons in suit which were attached to the bonds
numbered from one to one hundred, inclusive, and against it
for the remaining coupons, being on bonds owned by Block,
numbered one hundred and thirty-one to one hundred and
fifty.
Each party sued out a writ of error.
Mr. John D. Stevenson for Block.
Mr. J. -. XcKeighan, contra.

.Oct. 1878.]

,BLOCK V.

OMMISSIONERS.

MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
These are writs of error complaining of one judgment. The
plaintiff, Block, brought suit against the board of commissioners of the county of Bourbon, Kansas, to recover the
amount of $16,800 alleged to be due him upon past-due interest
,coupons detached from bonds made and issued by that county.
From the findings of fact made by the court below it appears
that the plaintiff is the bonafide owner of twenty of the bonds
.from which part of the coupons in suit were taken, and that
lie purchased them in open market without actual notice of any
defence the county now sets up against them. The remaining coupons are the property of one William J. Lewis, delivered by him to the plaintiff to be collected, not for the benefit
-of Block, but for that of Lewis, the true owner. Whether, in
view of such a finding, a recovery for them can be bad in this
suit, if there were no other objection to it, we do not now determine. There is another and graver question to be considered. The Lewis coupons had been in litigation before this
suit was commenced. In January, 1873, he applied to the
Supreme Court of the State for a mandamus, suggesting that he
was the owner of bonds of the county, one hundred in number,
and numbered from one to one hundred, and of the coupons
attached to the same; that he was the holder, bearer, and
owner of the one hundred coupons due and payable July 1,
1872, part of the coupons now in suit; that a tax had been
levied and collected amply sufficient to pay those coupons, but
that the county had refused to pay them. The suggestion further represented that the proper officers of the county had neglected and refused to take the necessary steps to make provision
for the payment of the coupons falling due in 1873, in January
and July, and by an alternative writ the board of commissioners of the county were commanded to pay the coupons due in
1872, and to provide for levying a tax sufficient to pay the
coupons as they should fall due in 1873.
To this alternative writ the commissioners answered, in substance, denying the validity and obligation of the bonds. Much
of the answer was formal and quite immaterial, but there was
also much of substance. It was denied that there had been
.any proper submission to the electors of the county of the ques-

BLOCK V. COMnIMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

tion whether the county should subscribe to the stock, or issue
bonds to the railroad company to which the bonds were issued,
to wit, the Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company. The answer
further averred that, though there was a submission of the question to the electors whether the county would vote $150,000 to
any railroad running east to connect with the aforesaid road,
a majority of the votes cast at the election ordered was cast
against the proposition. It further avers that though the commissioners canvassed the vote and decided from the returns before it that a majority had voted in favor of the proposition, the
returns from one township were not brought in until after the
canvass had been completed, and until after the board had adjourned, and that if the return from that township had been
made in season and had been counted, a majority would have appeared against the proposition submitted. This belated return
remained unopened until years afterwards, until after the bonds
had been issued and after a new submission to the electors had
resulted in the vote of a decided majority in favor of the bonds.
This new submission, it was averred, was made in 1869, and it
was not until after the vote had been taken that a subscription
was made to the stock of the Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company, and the bond6 of the county were issued in payment. At
the time when the subscription was ordered to be made and the
bonds were directed to be executed and delivered to the railroad
company, it was also ordered that the stock of the county in
the railroad company should be sold to the Land-Grant and
Trust Company of New York, for the sum of five dollars.
Upon the issue thus tendered and made up the case was
tried by the Supreme Court of the State, and a judgment was
given for the defendant. What the effect of this judgment
was has a most important bearing upon the inquiry whether
there can be any recovery in the present suit for the coupons
belonging to Lewis, the relator in the application for the mandamus.
To obtain a clear appreciation of that, it is necessa'y to observe closely what was in issue in the proceeding in the State
court, and consequently what was adjudicated. It was not
denied that Lewis was the owner of the one hundred bonds
to which the coupons now in suit for his use were attached.

Oct. 1878.]

BLOCK v. COMMISSIONERS.

It was not denied that the coupons were due and unpaid, as
averred in the suggestion and alternative writ. Nor was it
denied that the officers of the county had power, and that
it was their duty to levy a tax to pay them and to make pay.
ment, if they were a lawful debt of the county. In legal effect
all this was admitted. The, only issue tendered and the only
issue tried was that tendered by the answer; namely, that the
bonds and coupons were unauthorized by law, because a majority of the voters of the county, voting at the election in 1867,
had not sanctioned a subscription to the stock of the railroad*
company, and approved the proposition submitted for the issue
of the bonds. If they had not, the bonds were unauthorized,
and the coupons, of course, constituted no debt of the county.
Then the relator was not entitled to his. mandamus. If, on
the other hand, the bonds And coupons were lawfully issued,
either in pursuance of the vote of 1867 or that of 1869, they
did constitute a debt of the county, and a mandamus to enforce
their payment necessarily followed. The court gave judgment
for the defendant, as we have seen, and thus decided that the
bonds and coupons held and owned by Lewis were invalid.
Such was the necessary effect of the judgment. The issue
tried was a material one, and the judgment could not have been
rendered without deciding it. Now that a judgment in a suit
between two parties is conclusive in any other suit betweern
them, or their privies, of every matter that was decided therein, and that was essential to the decision made, is a doctrine
too familiar to need citation of authorities in its support. A
few cases go farther, and rule that it is conclusive of matters
incidentally cognizable, if they were in fact decided. To this
we do not assent. But it is certain that a judgment of a court
of competent jurisdiction is everywhere conclusive evidence of
every fact upon which it must necessarily have been founded,
As between Lewis, therefore, and Bourbon County the judgment of the State Supreme Court finally established that the
coupons which he held, and which he subsequently placed in
the hands of Block, the plaintiff in the present suit, were
invalid, and constituted no part of the debt of the county. As
that judgment was pleaded in the present case, it was a conclusive answer to the suit so far as it was founded upon those

BLOCK V. COMMISSIONERS.

coupons.

[Sup. Ct.

The plaintiff's writ of error, consequently, cannot be

sustained.

The coupons held and owned by Block are in a different
position. As between him and the county there is no estoppel. He was not party to the suit in which the Lewis coupons
-were adjudged invalid, and he is unaffected by the judgment
therein. Of the coupons which he holds he is a bona fide
holder, having purchased them for a valuable consideration,
-without actual notice of any defence which could be set up
against them. When he-bought he was under no obligation to
look farther than to see that there was legislative authority for
the issue of the bonds, and that the condition upon which it
-was allowed to be exercised had been fulfilled. If there was
such authority, and the precedent conditions had been performed, the bonds and coupons are valid obligations of the
county, which he, as their owner, may enforce.
The bonds are dated July 1, 1870, and on their face they
purport to have been issued by order of the board of county
commissioners of the county of Bourbon, Kansas, dated March 8,
1867, and they are made payable to the Tebo and Neosho
Railroad Company or bearer.
The authority under which it is claimed they were issued
-was an act of the legislature of the State of Feb. 10, 1865,
amended by an act passed Feb. 26, 1866. By that it was enacted "that the board of county commissioners of any county
to, into, from, or near -which, -whether in this State or any other
State, any railroad is or may be located, may subscribe to the
capital stock of any such railroad corporation in the name and
for the benefit of such county, not exceeding in amount the sum
of $300,000 in any one corporation, and may issue the bonds of
such county, in such amounts as they may deem best, in payment of said stock, . . . but no such bonds shall be issued until

the question shall first be submitted to a vote of the qualified
electors of the county at some general election, or at some
special election to be called by the board of county commissioners, .

.

. and in submitting such question said board of

directors shall direct in what manner the ballots shall be cast.
If a majority of the votes cast at such election shall be in favor
of issuing such bonds, the board of commissioners of the county
shall issue the same."

-

Oct. 1878.]

BLOCK

V. COMMISSIONERS.

695

In this act several things are to be noticed. The bonds were
allowed to be issued in payment for subscriltions to stock of any
railroad company, whether its road was then located, or might
be thereafter, whether it was in the State or out of it, in the
county or out of it, provided the question of subscription to the
stock and issuing the bonds was first submitted to a vote of
the qualified electors, and a majority was found in favor of issuing the bonds. Another thing is manifest. It was the legislative intention that the board of commissioners should be the
body which should submit the question of subscription and issue
of the bonds to popular decision, and they were also deputed
mean the board
to determine the result of the election, -we
might be
election
an
when
time
the
at
constituted
it
was
as
held.
Authorized by this statute, the board of county commissioners, on the 8th of March, 1867, submitted to the electors of
the county the question whether there should be subscribed
for the county $150,000 to the stock of any railroad company
then organized, or that might thereafter be organized, that
should construct a railroad commencincg at a point on the
Tebo and Neosho Railroad running westward, via Fort Scott
(in Bourbon County), and should issue bonds to the company
for the same. Pursuant to this submission an election was
held, the returns of which were canvassed at the proper time
by the board, and the result declared to be that a majority of
the votes had been cast in favor of the subscription and the
issue of the bonds. This was on the 10th of May, 1867. The
declaration of the result was duly entered upon the minutes
of the board. Subsequently an additional return was made
from one township which was not before the board when the
canvass was made. Had it been, the result would have been
different. But this return was not opened until June 27, 1872,
long after the bonds had been issued. Upon the records of
the board nothing appeared to impeach the canvass made in
1867, though in the files of the office the belated poll-book
remained unopened. It is hardly necessary to say that the
board, as it was in 1872, had no authority to make a new canvass
of the election held in 1867, after the bonds had been issued and
purchasers had bought on the faith of the canvass first made.

BLOCK V. COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ot.

The bonds, it is true, contain no recitals. If they did contain
a recital that an election had been held, and that a majority
had voted for the issue of the bonds, the recital would have
been conclusive upon the county, and a purchaser would have
needed to look no farther than to the act of the legislature.
This is according to all our decisions. But in the absence of
any recital it may be conceded he was bound to inquire whether
a majority vote had been returned for the issue of the bonds.
But where was he to inquire? Plainly only of the board whose
province it was to ascertain and declare the result of the election. Had he gone to their records, they would have shown
that the popular vote was in favor of the bond issue. They
showed nothing else until 1872. He was not bound to canvass
the vote for himself, or to revise and correct a mistaken canvass,
any more than he was bound to inquire into the qualification
of the electors. And if, relying upon the canvass of the board
and the declared result, he accepted the obligations of the
county, it would be a strange doctrine were we to hold that a
second canvass, made many years afterwards, could reverse the
first and annul rights that had been acquired under it. There
is no such law. For all legal purposes the result of an election
is what it is declared to be by the authorized board of canvassers empowered to make the canvass at the time when the
returns should be made, until their decision has been reversed
by a superior power, and a reversal has no effect upon acts
lawfully done prior to it. The county of Bourbon is therefore estopped, in a suit by a bondholder whose bonds were
issued in 1870, from asserting that the canvass of 1867 was
incorrect, and that in fact no majority of the qualified electors
had voted in favor of the issue of the bonds. All that took
place afterwards, all the new evidence that was discovered, the
new election ordered and held in 1869, and the action of the
board after the bonds were issued, are immaterial. It follows
that much of the argument of the learned counsel for the
county who has argued against the validity of the bonds and
coupons is unsound. It assumes, what cannot be admitted,
that a majority of the votes cast at the election in 1867 was
against the issue of the bonds, when it was conclusively established by the decision of the tribunal appointed by law to

Oct. 1878.]

BLOCK V. COMMISSIONERS.

determine the result of the election, that the contrary was the
fact.
We pass now to the consideration of some of the objections
made to the order of the county board of March 8, 1867, submitting to the qualified electors the question whether there
should be a subscription made to the stock of any railroad
organized, or that might thereafter be organized, that should
build a railroad commencing at a point on the Tebo and Neosho
Railroad and running westward to Fort Scott, and whether
county bonds should be issued to said company therefor. It is
said this did not authorize a subscription to the stock of the
Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company, or the issue of bonds to
it. The objection, in view of the facts -that appear in the
record, is of no weight. When the order was made, that company had been incorporated by the legislature of Missouri, and
had projected its road along and near the northern boundary
of that State through a county adjoining Bourbon. The order
of the county board contemplated a connection of Fort Scott
-with that road, and the issue of bonds to any company that
would make that connection. A part of the connecting road
was necessarily in Missouri and a part in Kansas. The Missouri corporation could only build, by its own direct action, to
the State line, and a Kansas corporation could only build the
part in Kansas; but the Tebo and Neosho Company could and
did cause the entire line to be constructed. It had power by
its charter to extend, construct, maintain, and operate its railroad and branches beyond the limits of the State, so far as
Missouri could give it that power. In 1869, that company,
under legislative authority, sold all its privileges, rights, powers,
and franchises to the Missouri, Kansas, and Texas Railway
Company, organized under the laws of Kansas, stipulating that
the vendee should assume all indebtedness incurred for the
construction, or otherwise, of the line between Sedalia, Mo.,
and Fort Scott (in Bourbon County, Kansas). Accordingly
the road begun by the Tebo and Neosho Company was constructed and extended to and beyond Fort Scott, and is now in
operation. There can be no doubt that this was a compliance
by the Tebo and Neosho Company with the conditions prescribed by the order of the county board. It built the road

BLOCK V. COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

through the agency of the Kansas corporation, and it therefore
answered the description made in the order of submission.
The county commissioners subscribed to its stock and issued
the bonds to it, or bearer, and their action was warranted, as
we have said, by the terms of the submission and its approval.
It was not a case of authority given to issue bonds to one railroad company, and their issue to another.
We have said enough in refutation of the argument that
because the Tebo and Neosho Railroad Company was a Missouri corporation, and could not, therefore, extend its road into
Kansas, it was excluded from the roads contemplated in the
order and election. If it was, then every railroad company
was excluded, for even a Kansas company could not build a
road into Missouri. Yet the order and election meant something. No company was named in the order. None could be.
But a description was given that pointed unmistakably to the
company that caused the work to be done. In Commissioners
of Tohnson County v. Tkayer (94 U. S. 631), this court held that
under the Kansas statute of 1865 it is not necessary to name
any particular company in the submission to the popular vote.
A description of a railroad company may well be made without mentioning its corporate name.
This is all that, in our judgment, these cases require. We
have not deemed it necessary to invoke in aid of our conclusions the provisions of the curative act of 1868, for we think
it is not open to question that a majority of the qualified
electors of the county approved the subscription that was made
and the issue of the bonds. That was finally determined by the
board, whose duty it was to canvass the result of the election
and declare the result. Their decision has never been reversed
by any competent authority, and it cannot be impeached collaterally. Nor do we place any reliance upon the second order
made in 1869, and the election held thereunder, resulting in a
large majority in favor of the subscription and issue of the
bonds. The bonds stand on the order and vote of 1867, as
determined by the canvassing board at that time.
Nor can we yield assent to the claim that the acts of 1865
and 1866 were repealed by the General Statutes of 1868. Certainly there was no express repeal, and we can discover no

061-1878.]

BLOCK v. COMMISSIONERS.

necessary implication of a repeal. And it may be added, that
the Supreme Court of -the State seems to regard those acts
as still in force. Lewis v. The Commissioners (12 Kan. 186)
gives no intimation to the contrary, though the court had
before it the questions we are now considering. In Horris v.
Hiorris County (7 id. 576), decided in.1871, the court said:
" The acts of 1865-66 have never been expressly repealed;
and if they have ever been impliedly repealed, all rights,
power, and authority that had accrued under them prior to
their repeal had at least been impliedly reserved." And again:
" Whatever was done under the acts of 1865 and 1866, prior to
the passage of the acts of 1868, continued in force the same as
though the acts of 1868 had never been passed."
We have not overlooked the opinion delivered by the Supreme Court of the State in Lewis v. The Commissioners, supra.
The judgment in the case was not given until after the bonds
were issued, and after the rights of the holders thereof had
become fixed. We are, therefore, at liberty to follow our own
convictions of the law. To those expressed by the State court
we cannot assent. They are not in harmony with many rulings
of this court made and repeated through a long series of years,
and they are not such as in our opinion would administer substantial justice if applied to this case.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.JusTICE CLIFFORD dissented from the opinion of the
court in the first, and concurred in it in the second case.

