152

UNITED STATES v. FORT ScoTT.

UNITED

[Sup. Ct.

STATES V. FORT SCOTT.

Sect. 16 of a statute of Kansas, approved March 2, 1871, authorized cities of
the second class to pass ordinances imposing taxes for general revenue purposes on all the taxable property within their limits, and make specified
public improvements; and provided that, to meet the cost of "paving, macadamizing, curbing, and guttering of streets," assessments should be made
on all the lots or pieces of ground extending along the street the distance
to be improved, according to their assessed value. Sect. 17 provided that
these assessments should be known as "special assessments for improvements," and be levied and collected as one tax, in addition to the general
taxes; but it empowered the mayor and council to issue for the cost of
such improvements bonds payable at the expiration of specified terms, and
make assessments in each year, to pay the principal and interest maturing
thereon during the fiscal year, upon the taxable property chargeable therewith, "as provided in the last part of the preceding section." Other sections
authorized the city council to provide, when necessary, for the issue of bonds,
for the purpose of funding any and all indebtedness of the city, and required
it to make provision, by levying taxes payable in cash, for a sinking-fund for
the redemption at maturity of "the bonded indebtedness of the city," and to
levy annually taxes payable in cash on all taxable property within the city
in addition to other taxes, and in amount sufficient to pay the interest and
coupons, as they became due, on all the bonds of the city. Under this statute the city council of F., a city of the second class, passed an ordinance for
grading, paving, guttering, and macadamizing one of its streets within prescribed limits, and for paying the cost of the work by the issue of special
improvement bonds of the city, signed by the mayor, attested by the city clerk
under the corporate seal of the city, and countersigned by the city treasurer.
The ordinance provided that the bonds should be paid, principal and interest,
solely from special assessments, to be made upon and collected from the lots
and pieces of ground upon the street the distance improved, in the manner
provided in sects. 16 and 17 of the above statute. Each bond issued under
this ordinance states in its margin that it is issued in accordance with sects.
16 and 17 of the statute, and in pursuance of an ordinance of the city of F.,
entitled an ordinance ordering the grading, curbing, guttering, and macadamizing of streets, and upon its face that it is a special improvement bond of the
city of F., Kansas. The city, for value received, thereby acknowledges itself
to owe, and promises to pay to the holder the amount thereof, and each bond
is indorsed with the certificate of the auditor of State that it was regularly
and legally issued. A., the holder for a valuable consideration of some of
these bonds before they matured, brought suit against the city, and recovered
judgment for the amount thereof in the ordinary form, except that the court
added, that it "be enforced and collected pursuant to law, in such case made
and provided." Said judgment not being paid, A. sued out a writ of nandamus to compel the levy of a tax. The court below held that the levy must
be confined to special assessments upon the property benefited and improved.
Reld, that his remedy was not so confined, and that the city was bound to
impose, in satisfaction of the judgment, a tax upon all the taxable property
within her limits.

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES v. FORT SCOTT.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
A statute of Kansas, approved March 2, 1871, confers upon
cities of the second class authority to enact ordinances for certain defined purposes. By the sixteenth section authority is
given: 1st, to levy and collect taxes for general revenue purposes, not to exceed five mills on the dollar in any one year, on
all the real, mixed, and personal property within their limits,
taxable according to the laws of the State; 2d, to open and
improve streets, avenues, and alleys, make sidewalks, and build
bridges, culverts, and sewers, the cost of which may be met by
assessments in the following manner, to wit: first, for opening,
widening, and grading all streets and avenues, for building
bridges, culverts, and sewers, and for footwalks across streets,
assessments shall be made on all taxable property within the
corporate limits of the city, not exceeding five mills on the
dollar in any one year; second, for making and repairing sidewalks, assessments shall be made on all lots and pieces of ground
abutting on the improvement, according to front feet; third,
for paving, macadamizing, curbing, and guttering streets, alleys,
and avenues, and excavating, grading, and filling same, and for
improvements of the squares and areas formed by the crossing
of streets, assessments shall be made on all lots and pieces of
ground to the centre of the block extending along the street or
avenue, the distance improved or to be improved, according to
the assessed value of the lots or pieces of ground, without regard to the buildings or improvements thereon, which value
must be ascertained by three disinterested appraisers, appointed
by the mayor and council.
By the seventeenth section it is declared that assessments
made pursuant to the third clause of the second subdivision of
the preceding section shall be known as "special assessments
for improvements," and, except as thereinafter provided, shall
be levied and collected as one tax, in addition to taxes for
general revenue purposes. But the mayor and council are
empowered to issue bonds of the city for the costs of paving,
macadamizing, curbing, and guttering streets and avenues, and
excavating, grading, and filling for same, to be made payable
as follows: one-third of the aggregate amount of bonds of any

UNITED STATES

v.

FORT SCOTT.

[Sup. Ct.

issue in one year, one-third in two years, and one-third in three
years, with interest from date, at the rate of ten per cent per
annum, payable annually. "And for the payment of said
bonds, assessments shall be made in each year to pay the principal and interest maturing on said bonds during said fiscal
year, upon the taxable property chargeable therewith, as is
provided in the third clause of the second subdivision of
the preceding section, and such tax shall be certified by the
city clerk to the county clerk, and placed upon the tax-roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected
in like manner as other taxes." Laws of Kansas, 1871,
p. 148.
The eighteenth section provides that "the council may appropriate money and provide for the payment of the debts and
expenses of the city, and, when necessary, may provide for
issuing bonds for the purpose of funding any and all indebtedness now existing or hereafter created of the city, now due or
to become due." And for the payment of any coupons of
bonds issued under that section the council is required to levy
taxes, payable in cash, on all the property in the city, in addition to other taxes. Id.
The nineteenth section declares that the council may provide
for making any and all improvements of a general nature in
the city, and to pay for same may, from time to time, borrow
money and issue bonds. In the payment of such bonds, with
their interest coupons, at maturity, the council is required to
levy taxes, payable in cash, on all taxable property within the
city, in addition to other taxes. Bonds authorized by that section cannot, however, be issued unless the council is previously
instructed to do so by a majority of all the votes cast at an
election held for that purpose.
By sect. 21 the council is required " to make provision from
time to time for a sinking-fund to redeem at maturity the
bonded indebtedness of the city," the taxes levied for that purpose being payable only in cash.
By sect. 22 the council is authorized and required to levy
annually taxes, payable in cash only, on all the taxable property within the city, in addition to other taxes, and in amount
sufficient to pay the interest and coupons as they become due

.Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES

v. FORT ScoTT.

"on all the bonds of the city" then (1871) issued or thereafter
to be issued by the city.
These sections seem to be the only portions of the statute of
March 2, 1871, which have any direct bearing upon the question presented for consideration.
In the year 1872, the city council of Fort Scott, being a city
af the second class, by ordinance required one of its streets to
be graded, paved, guttered, and macadamized, within prescribed
limits, the cost of the work to be paid for in bonds of the city,
to be registered and classified as special improvement bonds,
and which might be made payable in New York. The ordinance provides that the bonds "shall be paid, principal and
interest, solely from special assessments to be made upon and
collected solely from the lots and pieces of ground fronting
upon and extending along the street the distance improved, in
the manner provided in sects. 16 and 17 of an act of the legislature of Kansas relating to the powers and government of cities
of the second class, approved March 2, 1871."
In accordance with that ordinance, bonds with coupons attached were issued and negotiated to the amount of several
thousand dollars.
Upon the margin of each bond is this statement: "Issued
in accordance with sects. 16 and 17 of an act of the legislature
of Kansas, entitled an act relating to the powers and government of cities of the second class, and to repeal certain sections
of chapter 19 of the general statutes of 1868, approved March
2, 1871, and in pursuance of an ordinance of the city of Fort
Scott, entitled an ordinance ordering the grading, curbing, guttering, and macadamizing a part of Wall Street." Upon each
bond also was indorsed the official certificate of the auditor of
the State, to the effect that such bond "had been regularly
and legally issued, that the signatures thereto were genuine,"
and that the bond had been duly registered in his office in
accordance with the statute of March 2, 1872.
'The Concord Savings Bank having become the holder and
owner, for a valuabld consideration and before maturity, of
some of these bonds, and failing to obtain payment, sued the
city, and recovered judgment for the amount thereof in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kansas,

UNITED

STATES

v. FORT ScoTT.

[Sup. Ot.

The judgment is in the ordinary form, except that the court
adds: "And it is further ordered and adjudged that the judgment now here rendered be enforced and collected pursuant to
law in such case made and provided."
Subsequently the bank sued out an alternative writ of mandamus, commanding the city council to levy and collect a sufficient tax upon all the taxable property within the city to pay
the judgment, interest, and costs. But, upon demurrer, the
court below held that the relator was only entitled to a levy of
special assessments upon the property benefited and improved,
and upon that ground the writ was quashed and the relator's
information dismissed. The relator then sued out this writ of
error.
lfr. JD.A. cCleverty for the defendant in error, in support
of the judgment below.
The court, in rendering the original judgment against the
city, annexed to it a special provision, which had been approved in County of Cass v. Jordan, 95 U. S. 373, and County
of Cass v. Johnson, id. 360. The judgment, therefore, should
not be construed to be an absolute one, rendering the city
liable at all events to pay the same, and entitling the relator
to the levy of a general tax, inasmuch as, by the provisions
of the statute and the ordinance under which the bonds were
issued, the means of paying them were to be derived exclusively from the taxable property chargeable therewith. The
relator was fully cognizant of the fact when he purchased
these bonds, as he had full notice by the recitals upon their
face. While the city is bound by these recitals, he is equally
so. He is therefore affected with notice of the ordinance, as
it was necessary to authorize the issue of the bonds. The provision touching this special tax for the payment of them was
a part of the contract, which cannot be modified or repealed, and
it was that provision which the court obviously had in view in
giving to the judgment its exceptional form.
The uniform ruling has been, that where a liability created
by law is payable out of a special fund, that fund can alone
be resorted to for payment. Me Oullough v. The Mayor, &c. of
Brooklyn, 23 Wend. (N. Y.) 458; Lake v. Trustees of Milliamsburgh, 4 Den. (N. Y.) 520; Hunt v. City of Utica, 18 N. Y. 442;

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES v. FORT SCOTT.

Bilert v. The City of Oshkosh, 14 Wis. 586; Whalen v. La
Crosse, 16 id. 271; Silkman v. Milwaukee, 31 id. 555; Finney
v. Oshkosh, 18 id. 209.
In Michigan, it is the rule that the corporation is only liable
for the special assessment. The People v. Township of Zilwaukie, 10 Mich. 274; Goodrich v. Detroit, 12 id. 279; Bank
v. The City of Lansing, 25 id. 207. See also City of New Albany
v. Sweeney, 13 Ind. 245; Casey v. -Leavenworth,17 Kan. 189.
Mr. James D. Campbell, contra.
MR. J-USTIOE HARLAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The vital question upon this writ of error is, whether the
city is under a legal obligation to impose, in satisfaction of
the relator's judgment, a tax upon all the taxable property of
the city. If so, the judgment dismissing the information should.
be reversed; otherwise, it must be affirmed.
It is contended by counsel for the plaintiff that as the judgment for the debt has never been modified or reversed, the city
is estopped, in this proceeding, to say that the relator was entitled only to a levy upon the property specially benefited. A
determination of that question does not seem absolutely necessary in view of our conclusions upon other issues presented in
the case. We therefore waive its consideration, and proceed
to an examination of the statute of March 2, 1871, under which
the bonds were issued. We are the more inclined to pursue
this course because of his frank concession, that perhaps the
purpose of the learned judge who framed the order of dismissal
was to reserve the real question in controversy for determination when proceedings for mandamus should come before him.
In our examination of the statute of March 2, 1871, we are
impressed with a strong conviction that the legislature intended
to confer upon cities coming within its provisions the amplest
authority, not only to incur obligations for all legitimate municipal purposes, but to meet promptly every obligation thus
incurred. Unusual care seems to have been taken to guard the
financial credit of such cities by provisions which, if enforced,
would not only give confidence to creditors, but render municipal repudiation impossible. This care is manifested in the

UNITED STATES v. FORT

SCOTT.

[Sup. Ct.

section which requires the council to establish a sinking-fund
for the redemption, at maturity, of "the bonded indebtedness
of the city," that fund to be supplied by taxes, payable only in
cash. It is further shown in the section which both authorizes
and requires sufficient taxation annually on all taxable property
within the city to meet the interest as it matures "on all the
bonds of the city." It is still further indicated in the section
which declares that the council "may . . . provide for the
payment of the debts and expenses of the city." No express
restriction is imposed as to the mode in which such provision
may be made, except that, when necessary, "any and all indebtedness of the city" may be met by issuing funding bonds, the
interest upon which may be paid by taxation " on all the property of the city, in addition to other taxes." A faithful exercise
of the powers thus conferred would seem to be sufficient to
secure the prompt satisfaction of any municipal indebtedness
incurred in accordance with the provisions of the statute of
1871. That the bonds for the amount of which the relator
obtained judgment constitute a " debt," or a portion of " the
bonded indebtedness " of the city, within the meaning of the
statute, cannot well be doubted. The ordinance which required
the improvements in question in terms directs that the cost
thereof "shall be paid for in the bonds of the city," to be signed
by the mayor, attested by the city clerk under the corporate
seal of the city, and countersigned by the city treasurer. Further, each bond declares upon its face that it is a " special improvement bond of the city of Fort Scott, Kansas;" and that
the city, "for value received, acknowledges itself to owe, and
promises to pay to the holder" the amount thereof. Still further, the statute under which the ordinance was framed authorizes the council to pay the cost of such special improvements
by issuing "the bonds of the city." Finally, the bonds were
negotiated by the city authorities, by whom the proceeds were
received and expended under the direction of the council. They
constitute, therefore, in every just sense, debts which the city,
in its corporate capacity, is under a statutory and legal obligation to provide for in some effectual, substantial manner.
But, in behalf of the city, it is urged that the holder of these
bonds must, by the terms of the statute, and the ordinance of

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. FORT SCOTT.

Jan. 22, 1872, look for payment exclusively io assessments
upon the property specially improved and benefited. It is
contended that such was the purpose of the city, of which the
purchaser had constructive notice in the reference, in the marginal statement upon the bonds, both to sects. 16 and 17 of the
act of March 2, 1871, and to the ordinance passed by the council. To that interpretation of the contract we cannot yield our
assent. It is true that sect. 17 declares that "for the payment of said bonds" assessments shall be made "upon the taxable property chargeable therewith; " that is, "on all lots and
pieces of ground to the centre of the block, extending along
the street or avenue, the distance improved." But it is neither
expressly nor by necessary implication provided that the holder
of the bonds may not be paid in some other mode, or that the
city will not, under the authority derived from other sections
of the statute, comply with its promise to pay the bonds, with
interest, at maturity. As between the city and its tax-payers,
it was certainly its duty, through the council, to provide, if
practicable, payment by taxation upon the property improved,
rather than upon all the taxable property within its corporate
limits. But the duty to make such distribution of the burden
of special improvements did not lessen its obligation, in accordance with its express agreement, to pay the interest and principal of the bonds at maturity. Hitchcock v. Galveston, 96
U. S. 341.
The main difficulty comes from the peculiar phraseology of
the city ordinance prescribing the source from which the means
for the payment of the bonds should be obtained. The statement in ihe ordinance that the bonds "shall be paid, principal
and interest, solely from special assessments, to be made upon
and collected solely from the lots and pieces of ground fronting
upon or extending along the street the distance improved,"
should be regarded only as an expression, in emphatic terms,
of the purpose and duty of the city, as between all its taxpayers, to impose the cost of the proposed improvements upon
the property specially benefited. There is no reason to presume
that the ordinance was intended to mean more than the statute
under which it was enacted. The general reference, upon the
margin of the bonds, to the ordinance under which the improve-

UNITED STATES V. FORT SCOTT.

[Sup. t

ment was projected should not, in view of the general powers
of the council, as declared in the statute, be held as qualifying
or lessening the unconditional promise of the city, set forth in
the body of the bonds, itself to pay the bonds, with their prescribed interest, at maturity. The agreement is, that the city
shall pay the interest and principal at maturity. There is no
reservation, as against the purchasers of the bonds, of a right,
under any circumstances, to withhold payment at maturity, or
to postpone payment until the city should obtain, by special assessments upon the improved property, the means with which to
make payment, or to withhold payment altogether, if the special
assessments should prove inadequate for payment. Experience
informs us that the city would have met with serious, if not
insuperable, obstacles in its negotiations had the bonds upon
their face, in unmistakable terms, declared that the purchaser
had no security beyond the assessments upon the particular
property improved. If the corporate authorities intended such
to be the contract with the holders of the bonds, the same good
faith which underlies and pervades the statute of March 2, 1871,
required an explicit avowal of such purpose in the bond itself,
or, in some other form, by language, brought home to the purchaser, which could neither mislead nor be misunderstood.
In this case, it is alleged by the city that the special assessments required by the seventeenth section of the act of 1871
-were duly made before the maturity of the bonds, and that all
amounts collected in that mode have been promptly paid over
by the city to holders of such bonds. But the unquestioned
fact remains, that the bonds, -with some interest, held by the
relator, were not met at maturity as the city agreed that they
should be. They are still unpaid. The special assessments
made have, from some cause not explained in the answer of the
city, proven wholly insufficient. Nor does it appear that they
will ever prove sufficient for the payment of the relator's judgment. The corporate authorities repudiate all legal obligation
upon the part of the city to provide payment in any other mode
or from any other source, a p9sition which we hold to be untenable and in violation of a plain duty imposed by statute.
We are of opinion that the council has the power, under this
statute, to provide for the payment of the relator's judgment

Oct. 1878.]

HARRIS V. McGoVERN.

by taxation upon all the taxable property within the city, and*
such should have been the judgment of the court below. A
discharge of that duty will in nowise interfere with the right
of the council to reimburse the city, if that be now possible,
for all amounts thus paid, out of special assessments upon the
property primarily chargeable with the cost of the work on
account of which the bonds were issued.
The judgment will be reversed, with directions for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.

HARRIS v. McGovERN.
1. Continuous adverse possession of lands in California for five years bars an
action of ejectment, if the plaintiff or those under whom he claims were
under no disability when the cause of action first accrued.
2. When the Statute of Limitations begins to run, no subsequent disability will
arrest its progress.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
This is ejectment, commenced Jan. 10, 1870, by Edward H.
Harris, Isaac H. Shimer and Letitia his -ife, against John
McGovern and others. A jury having been waived by written
stipulation, the court tried the issue, and found the following
facts :1. The land in controversy is known as one hundred vara lot,
No. 19, of the Laguna survey, and is situated within the corporate limits of the city of San Francisco, as defined in the act
incorporating said city, passed by the legislature of the State
of California on the fifteenth day of April, 1851; but lies west
of Larkin Street and northwest of Johnson Street, as they
existed prior to and at the time of the passage of certain ordinances by the common council of said city, which were afterwards ratified by an act of the legislature of said State, entitled
"An Act concerning the city of San Francisco, and to ratify
and confirm certain ordinances of the common council of said
city," approved March 11, 1858. Said land is also within the
VOL. IX.

11

