Oct. 1878.]

CAMPBELL

v.

RANKIN.

CAMPBELL V. RAN=.
1. An affidavit for the continuance of a cause does not become a part of the record, so that effect can be given to it during the trial, unless it is properly
introduced as evidence for some legitimate purpose by one of the parties.
2. In trespass quare clausitmfregit, actual possession of the land by the plaintiff is
sufficient evidence of title to authorize a recovery against a mere trespasser.
3. The judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction is, as to every issue decided
in the suit, conclusive upon the parties thereto, and in a subsequent suit between them parol evidence, whenever it becomes necessary in order to show
what was tried in the first suit, is admissible.
4. While the record of a mining district is the best evidence of the rules and customs governing its mining interests, it is not the best or the only evidence
of the priority or extent of a party's actual possession.
5. The fifth section of the act entitled "An Act to promote the development of
the mining resources of the United States," approved May 10, 1872 (17 Stat.
91), gives no greater effect to the record of mining claims than is given to
the records kept pursuant to the registration laws of the respective States,
and does not exclude as primafacie evidence of title proof of actual possession, and of its extent.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. J Hubley Ashlon and .Jr.
plaintiffs in error.
111r. Richard T. Herrick, contra.

Nathaniel Wilson for the

MR.JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The declaration avers that plaintiffs below, who are also
plaintiffs in error, were the owners of a mining claim in
Meagher County, known as Claim No. 2 below discovery, in
Green Horn Gulch, and that defendant wrongfully entered
upon and took possession of a portion of said claim, and took
and carried away large quantities of gold-bearing earth and
gold-dust, the property of plaintiffs, of the value of $15,000.
The answer amounts to a general denial of all the averments
of the complaint.
Bills of exception taken on the trial show that plaintiffs
offered in evidence the record of a judgment in the same court,
in which the defendant in this suit was plaintiff, and the present plaintiffs and those under whom they claim were defendants,
which was an action for trespass, wherein the same question of

CAMPBELL V. RANKIN.

[Sup. Ct.

conflicting interference of the two mining claims was in issue,
and the verdict and judgment were for plaintiffs in this suit.
The admission of this record was objected to, and the court
sustained the objection.
Plaintiffs then offered to prove that they had been in actual
possession of Claim No. 2 in Green Horn Gulch for several
years, and that defendant had admitted in conversation the
existence of such a claim, and had conceded a dividing line
between his claim and that of plaintiffs, which would give to
the latter the ground in controversy. The court refused this
also.
Plaintiffs then offered in evidence a deed from Harding &
Wilson for Claim No. 2, Green Horn Gulch, dated December,
1869, and proof of occupancy and use of it ever since. The
court rejected this also. And having rejected all the evidence
offered by plaintiffs, it directed the jury to find for defendant,
and on that verdict rendered a judgment, which was affirmed
on appeal by the Supreme Court of the Territory.
The record sufficiently shows that neither party to this suit
had any legal title to the locus in quo from the United States,
and that the controversy involves only such possessory right as
the act of Congress recognizes in the locator and occupant of a
mining privilege.
Since this right of possession was the matter to be decided
by the jury, it is almost incomprehensible that proof of prior
occupancy, and especially when accompanied by a deed showing
color of right, should be rejected.
In actions of ejectment, or trespass quare elausum fregit, possession by the plaintiff at the time of eviction has always been
held prima facie evidence of the legal title, and as against a
mere trespasser it is sufficient. 2 Greenl. Evid., sect. 311. If
this be the law, when the right of recovery depends on the
strict legal title in the plaintiff, how much more appropriate is
it as evidence of the superior right of possession under the acts
of Congress which respect such possession among miners.
If this plain principle of the common law needed support
from adjudged cases, as applicable to the one before us, it may
be found in the courts of California in Atwood v. Tricot, 17 Cal.
37 ; English v. Johnson, id. 107 ; and Hess v. Winder, 30 id. 355.

Oct. 1878.]

CAMPBELL

v.

RANkIr.

The court below erred, therefore, in rejecting this evidence
of plaintiffs' prior possession.
Whatever may have been the opinion of other courts, it has
been the doctrine of this court in regard to suits on contract
ever since the case of the Washington, Alexandria, & Georgetown Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles (24 How. 333), and in regard
to actions affecting real estate, since .1ilesv. Caldwell (2 Wall.
35), that whenever the same question has been in issue and
tried, and judgment rendered, it is conclusive of the issue so
decided in any subsequent suit between the same parties; and
also, that where, from the nature of the pleadings, it would be
left in doubt on what precise issue the verdict or judgment was
rendered, it is competent to ascertain this by parol evidence on
the second trial. The latest expression of the doctrine is found
in Cromwdl v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351; Davis v. Brown,
id. 423.
The rejection of the record of the suit of Bankin v. Campbell
and Others was in direct conflict with this doctrine. In that
case Rankin had brought an action of the same character as the
one he is now defending, against the parties who are now plaintiffs, and had a verdict and judgment against him. The record
in that case, as in this, shows that one party claimed under
Mining Claim No. 2, in Green Horn Gulch, and the other
under Mining Claim No. 8, in Confederate Gulch. The issue
in both cases was to which claim did the disputed piece of mineral deposit belong; and if that issue was not clear, it was competent, under the decisions we have cited, to show by parol
proof that the controversy was over the same locality, and that
the issue had, therefore, been decided against Rankin.
And this proof the plaintiffs offered, in connection with the
record of the former suit. The exclusion of this evidence was
error.
The principal ground on which the court rejected all this
evidence, and all other evidence offered by the plaintiffs, is,
that at the same term of the court, and before the trial, one of
the plaintiffs, in support of an application for a continuance,
made an affidavit, in which he stated that he expected to prove
by an absent witness that he had destroyed the original record
and laws of Green Horn Gulch, in which the plaintiffs' claim

CAMPBELL V. RANKIN.

[Sup. Ct.

is located ; that said records and laws established the size, lines,
boundaries, and location of Claim No. 2 below discovery in
said gulch, and that said records showed that the predecessors
of the plaintiffs in interest possessed and occupied this claim, in
accordance with the local rules.
This affidavit, made in support of an application for continuance, which was overruled, the judge, of his own motion, treated
as part of the record, and as before him on the trial, though not
offered by either party; and as well as we can understand it,
excluded all other evidence of the possession and location and
validity of the plaintiffs' claim, because this lost record was the
best evidence, and all other was secondary or inferior.
It is difficult to argue this proposition seriously. The affidavit was in no judicial sense before the court on the trial, and
could only be used, if at all, when introduced by one of the
parties for some legitimate purpose. If it had been so presented
by the defendant, it plainly showed that this better evidence
was destroyed and could not be produced, and was a sufficient
foundation for the use of secondary evidence.
But the local record of a mining community, while it may be
and probably is the best evidence of the rules and customs governing the community, and to some extent the distribution of
mining rights, is not the best or the only evidence of priority
or extent of actual possession. It may fix limits to individual
acquisition, the terms and rules for acquiring and transferring
mining rights, as the laws of the State do in regard to ordinary
property; but such rules and customs no more determine who
was the first locator or where he located, than any other competent evidence of that fact.
Whatever may be the effect given to the record of mining
claims under sect. 5 of the act of Congress approved Mmiy 10,
1872 (17 Stat. 92), it certainly cannot be greater than that
which is given to the registration laws of the States, and they
have never been held to exclude parol proof of actual possession
and the extent of that possession as prima facie evidence of
title.
The Supreme Court of the Territory argue that the trial court
can regulate the order of admission of evidence in a case, and
because the plaintiffs did not introduce first of all proof of their

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. PUGH.

mining records which were lost, nothing else could be introduced. For want of these, evidence of actual possession, of
title-deeds, of the location of the claim, and the record of the
former suit determining the rights of the parties to the locus in
quo, were all unavailing and inadmissible.
We know of no rule of law which justifies this action.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of' Montana will be reversed, and the cause remanded to that court with directions to
order a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

UNITED STATES V. PUGH.
1. The act of March 12, 1863 (12 Stat. 820), relative to abandoned and captured
property, as extended by the act of July 2, 1864 (13 id. 375), authorizes the
recovery in the Court of Claims of the proceeds of property captured and,
without judicial condemnation, sold by the military authorities after July
17, 1862, and before March 12, 1863, if such proceeds were accounted for
and credited by the Secretary of the Treasury to the abandoned and captured property fund.
2 Where, in a suit arising under those acts, no direct proof was given that
the proceeds of the sale of the property were paid into the treasury, if the
circumstantial facts which are established by the evidence are set forth
in the finding of the Court of Claims, which it sends here as that upon
which alone its judgment was rendered, and they are, in the absence of any
thing to the contrary, the legal equivalent of a direct finding that such proceeds were so paid, this court will not on that account reverse the judgment.
3. The judgment of the Court of Claims as to the legal effect of what may, perhaps not improperly, be termed the ultimate circumstantial facts of the
case, is, if the question is properly presented, subject on appeal to be here
reviewed; and where the rights of the parties depend upon such circumstantial facts alone, and there is doubt as to the legal effect of them, it is
the duty of that court to frame its findings so that the question as to such
effect shall be presented by the record.
4. United States v. Crusell (14 Wall. 1), Same v. Ross (92 U. S. 281), and
Intermingled Cotton Cases (id. 651), so far as they bear upon the rule requiring, on an appeal from the Court of Claims, a finding by that court of
the facts in the case established by the evidence in the nature of a special
verdict, but not the evidence establishing them, cited and explained.

from the Court of Claims.
This was an action, brought by Walter Pugh against the
United States, to recover the proceeds of certain property. The
Court of Claims found the following facts: APPEAL

