138

BURBANK V. SEMES.

[Sup. Ct.

BURBANK V. SEIMES.
A marshal's deed which includes, with certain lands legally sold under the confiscation act of July 17, 1862 (12 Stat. 589), a parcel not mentioned either in
the information, the monition, or the decree of condemnation, under which the
sale was made, passes no title to such parcel.

Eoit-oi to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
This was an action brought in the Fourth District Court of
the Parish of New Orleans by Thomas J. Semmes, against Edward W. Burbank, for the recovery of one-half of lot No. 15,
fronting on Edward Street, in the city of New Orleans, in the
Square bounded by Annunciation, Benjamin, St. Thomas, and
Edward Streets.
Semmes prayed that he be adjudged the lawful owner of the
lot, and entitled to the possession thereof.
Burbank claimed title as the purchaser under a venditioni
exponas, directed to the marshal of the United States for the
then Eastern District of Louisiana, issued by the District Court
for that district in United States v. Six .Lots of Ground, property
of Thomas J. Semmes. The suit was brought under the act
of Congress of July 17, 1862, 12 Stat. 589. The marshal conveyed the lot to Burbank, by deed bearing date June 15, 1865.
Semmes was the owner of several lots in that square; and by
the decree of condemnation rendered in that suit his title in
and to lots 14, 16, 17, and part of 18 was divested. Neither
in the libel, the monition, the decree of condemnation, nor the
writ, was lot 15 mentioned.
A judgment was rendered for the plaintiff, which was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State, and Burbank then sued out
this writ of error.
31r. Thomas J. Durant for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Tiomas T Semmes, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLiFFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.

Seizure of the estate, property, money, stocks, credits, and
effects of certain persons engaged in rebellion was authorized
to be made by the act of Congress to suppress insurrection,

Oct. 1878.]

BURBANK v.

SEMMES.

and it was made the duty of the President to apply the proceeds of the same when condemned to the support of the army.
12 Stat. 590.
Proceedings in rem, on the 7th of August, 1863, were instituted in the District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana,
under the said confiscation act, against six certain lots of land,
as the real property of the original plaintiff in the present suit,
which resulted, on the 5th of April, 1865, in a decree of that
court condemning the property described in the information.
On the 11th of the same month a writ of venditioni exponas
was issued, commanding the marshal to sell the property on
the day named in the writ; but the marshal did not sell the
same on that day, for the want of bidders. Unable to comply
with the order in that respect, he withdrew the property from
sale, and gave a new notice, as directed by the prior order of
the court.
Two lots of land were embraced in the information and in
the decree of condemnation, which in fact were not the property of the present plaintiff. Both of those lots belonged to
an innocent third person, and the true owner of the same in
the mean time, to wit, on the 2d of May in the same year,
filed a petition in the same court setting up his right to the
two lots, and stating that they were improperly advertised for
sale by the marshal, and prayed the court to open the decree
to enable him to assert his title. Consent in writing to that
effect having been given by the district attorney, the court
granted the prayer of the petitioner, and opened the decree
for the purpose of enabling the intervenor to submit his claim
to those two lots, as shown by the evidence. Pursuant thereto,
the court, on the 31st of May in the same year, rendered judgment restoring those two lots to the intervenor, as claimed in
his petition. Due correction of the decree of condemnation
having been made, the return of the marshal shows that be
sold the residue of the lots described in the information, pursuant to the second advertisement, for the amount specified
in the record, and that he paid the money into the registry of
the court.
Subsequent application was made by the present plaintiff to
set aside the default against him, and for leave to file his claim

BURBANK V. SEMMES.

[Sup. Ct.

and answer. Leave to that effect was granted; and due notice
to the purchaser of the lots having been given, he appeared
and filed exceptions to the proceedings. Both parties were
heard ; and the court overruled the exceptions of the purchaser,
set aside the default of the defendant, and finally rendered
judgment dismissing the information, and restored the property to the original owner.
Proper steps were taken in behalf of the United States to
remove the cause into the Circuit Court, where the judgment
of the District Court was in all things reversed and judgment
rendered, that the original judgment rendered by the District
Court should stand and remain in full force and effect, and
that the sale made by the marshal do stand confirmed, which
decree of the Circuit Court was subsequently affirmed in this
court. Semmes v. United States, 91 U. S. 21; United States
v. Six Lots of Ground, 1 Woods, 234.
None of the foregoing proceedings are now controverted by
either of the parties to the present controversy; but the plaintiff instituted the present suit in the Fourth District Court for
the Parish of Orleans, in which he alleges that he is the sole
owner and absolute proprietor of the lot of land described in
the complaint as No. 15 on the plan therein referred to, and
he avers that the defendant, on the 17th of June, 1865, unlawfully obtruded himself into and took possession of the said lot,
with the buildings thereon, and has ever since withheld and
now withholds possession of the same from the petitioner.
Service was made; and the defendant appeared and filed
an answer, in which he admits that he is in possession of the
premises, but alleges that he is the owner and possessor of
the same in good faith, by virtue of an adjudication to him
at the marshal's sale under the before-mentioned writ of venditioni exponas, and he makes profert of the marshal's deed
to him of the premises as evidence of his title. Proofs were
taken, hearing had, and the court of original jurisdiction entered a decree that the plaintiff is the lawful owner of the lot,
with the improvements described in the complaint.
Conclusive proofs were introduced by the plaintiff showing
that he was the lawful owner of the lot in question prior to
the confiscation proceedings, and that he acquired the fee-

Oct. 1878.]

BURBANK V. SEMUES.

simple title to the same by exchanging part of lot 13 for the
same with the former owner of the lot in question.
Beyond all doubt the title of plaintiff to the same is perfect,
unless the lot was condemned and the title to the same conveyed to the defendant by virtue of the marshal's sale under
the confiscation proceedings. Suffice it to say that the defendant claims title to the premises upon no other ground, and in
respect to that the subordinate court remarked that neither
in the information nor the monition, or the decree of condemnation, is there any reference whatever to the lot in question,
or to the fractional part thereof purchased by the complainant,
from which it follows to a demonstration that the property was
never condemned as forfeited to the United States. Nor has
the defendant any other evidence of title than what is exhibited in the deed of the marshal; and it is clear that inasmuch
as the decree of condemnation did not apply to the lot in controversy, the marshal's sale of the same was utterly without
warrant or authority of law, and that as against the plaintiff
it can have no effect to change the ownership of the premises.
Application for new trial was made by the defendant, which
was overruled, and he appealed to the Supreme Court of the
State, where the parties were again heard, and the Supreme
Court of the State affirmed the judgment bf the subordinate
court. Immediate steps were taken by the defendant to remove the cause into this court for re-examination.
Of the errors assigned three only need be noticed, as the
others are deemed immaterial: 1. That the court decided that
the confiscation proceedings did not include the lot in question, upon insufficient grounds. 2. That the property was
condemned as a whole, and not the particular lots of which it
was composed. 3. That the owner, inasmuch as he did not
point out the defect of description at the trial, is estopped to
claim the property. Semmes v. Burbank, 28 La. Ann. 694.
Propositions of like character, it seems, were presented to
the State Supreme Court, and it is difficult to see what better
answer can be given to them than that found in the opinion
of that court.
Half of lot 15 is the subject of the present controversy, which
fronts on Edward Street in the Square bounded as described

142
in the petition.

BURBANK V. SEMMES.

[Sup. Ct.

Title to the same is claimed by the defendant

under the decree of confiscation and the sale by the marshal
under the writ of venditioni exponas. He admits that the
property belonged to the plaintiff prior to those proceedings,
but contends that the title was conveyed to him by the marshal's deed. On the other hand, the plaintiff concedes that
the confiscation proceedings were regular, but avers that the
property in question was not embraced in those proceedings.
Six lots were described in the information, two of which,
sometimes described as one, did not belong to the accused
party, and were in the course of the proceedings restored to
the true owner. By the decree of condemnation the title of
the plaintiff, as the accused party, was divested of lots 14, 16,
17, and part of 18. Lot 15, which is the lot in question, was
not mentioned either in the information, the monition, or the
decree of condemnation. Nor did the venditioni ezponas authorize the sale of any other property than that described in
the information and decree of condemnation. Nothing, therefore, in the semblance of title is possessed by the defendant
except the marshal's deed, and it is clear that the marshal
could only make a valid title to the property described in the
decree of condemnation, as that was all that became vested in
the United States; and it is equally clear that he could not
sell property not authorized by the writ placed in his hands
for execution.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that the
decision of the State Supreme Court rests upon sufficient and
solid foundations, and that it deserves to be affirmed, for the
reasons which the court gave for its conclusions. Nor is it
correct to suppose that the property was condemned as a
whole, as the proposition is refuted by the information, the
monition, and the decree of condemnation. Specific lots being
mentioned in the information and the monition, the accused
party had no ground to suppose that any other portion of his
real estate was embraced in the proceeding, and of course
cannot be held to have acquiesced in its condemnation.
Certain other errors are assigned, but the court is of opinion
that there is no error in the record.
.fudgment affirmed.

