68t. 1878.]

RAILROAD CO. V. .NCKINLEY.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MCKINLEY.
1. A. having in the State court recovered a judgment for *$12,000 against a
railroad company, the latter took the case to the Supreme Court of Iowa,
where a judgment was rendered reversing that below and ordering a new
trial. Immediately thereafter the company obtained and filed in the office
of the clerk of the lower court, the court not being in session, a writ of
procedende, together with a petition under the act of March 3, 1875 (18. Stat.
470), accompanied by the necessary bond, for the removal of the case into
the Circuit Court of the Uriited States. Within the sixty days allowed for
that purpose by the laws of Iowa, but after the procedendoand petition had
been filed, A. presented an application for a rehearing, and obtained from
the Supreme Court an order suspending its judgment until the next term.
The company then appeared and moved to dismiss the application, on the
ground that, before it was presented, the case had been removed into said
Circuit Court, and that, consequently, the Supreme Court had no jurisdiction thereof. That motion being denied and a rehearing had, A. consented to a reduction of the amount of his recovery to $7,000, whereupon
judgment therefor was entered in the Supreme Court in accordance with
its opinion. Held, 1. That the Supreme Court having, after reversing the
judgment of the lower court, still retained jurisdiction of the cause for
the purpose of a rehearing, the right of the defendant to a new trial had
not been perfected when the petition for removal was filed. 2. That the
subsequent judgment in the Supreme Court operated as a revocation of
the order to the court below to grant a new trial, and consequently withdrew the case from under that petition. Sed quacre, Is the filing of the
petition and bond in the clerk's office, the court not being in session, sufficient, under any circumstances, to effect a removal?
2. The ruling in Vannevar v. Bryant (21 Wall. 41), that after one trial has been
had in a State court, the right to another must be perfected before a demand
can be made for the removal of the case to the Circuit Court of the United
States, reaffirmed.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Mr. N. H. Hubbardfor the plaintiff in error.
Mr. 0. P. Shiras, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
In Insurance Company v. Dunn (19 Wall. 214), it was held
that under the act of March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 568), a cause
could be removed from a State court to the Circuit Court after
a trial and judgment in the State court, if before the removal
the first judgment had been set aside or vacated, and the right

RAILROAD CO. V. ]ICKINLEY.

[Sup. Ct;.

to a new trial perfected, and in Vannevar v. Bryant (21 Wall.
41), that after one trial the right to another must be perfected
before a demand for removal could be made.
In this case there had been one trial and a judgment for
McKinley, the plaintiff below, against the railroad company
in the State court before the petition for removal was filed.
Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of the State an order was
obtained reversing this judgment, and remanding the cause for
a new trial. As soon as this order of reversal was made, the
company obtained from the clerk of the Supreme Court a writ
of procedendo, and filed it in the clerk's office of the court
below, that court not being at the time in session. This being
done, the company filed in the clerk's office below, the court
still not being in session, a petition under the act of M'arch 3,
1875 (18 Stat. 470), accompanied by the necessary bond, for
the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United
States.
Under the practice in Iowa, a petition for rehearing may
be presented to the Supreme Court at any time within sixty
days after the filing of the opinion in the case; And when presented, the court if in session, or a judge if in vacation, may
order a suspension of the decision until the next term. In this
case, before the expiration of the sixty days, but after the
filing of the writ of procedendo and the petition for removal
in the clerk's office below, a petition for rehearing was filed
in the Supreme Court by the plaintiff, and an order suspending
the decision until the next term obtained. At the next term
the company appeared and moved to dismiss the petition for
rehearing, on the ground that the cause had been removed
to the Circuit Court before the petition was filed, and the
Supreme Court had consequently no longer any jurisdiction.
This motion was denied, and afterwards upon the rehearing,
the plaintiff below having consented to a reduction of the
verdict in his favor from $12,000 to $7,000, a judgment was
entered in the Supreme Court for the reduced amount, in
accordance with the opinion originally filed.
We think this brings the case within the rule as laid down
in TIannevar v. Bryant. A right to a new trial had not been
perfected absolutely when the petition for removal was filed.

Oct. 1878.]

KLEIN v. NEW ORLEANS.

The Supreme Court still retained jurisdiction of the cause for
the purpose of a rehearing; and when it did rehear and set
aside its former order of reversal, the case occupied the same
position it would if the final judgment of that court had been
the one originally entered. The subsequent judgment operated as a revocation of the order on the court below to proceed,
and consequently took the case out from under the petition for
removal.
We think, therefore, that the Supreme Court had jurisdiction of the cause when its final judgment was entered, and,
consequently, that there is no error in the record which we can
re-examine. The view we have taken of the case makes it
unnecessary to consider whether the filing of the petition for
removal in the clerk's office, the court not being in session, was
sufficient of itself to effect a removal.
Judgment affirmed.

KLEIN v. NEw ORLEANS.
Lands held by a city for public purposes, or ground rents arising therefrom and
forming a part of its public revenues, are not subject to seizure and sale on
execution.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
John Klein, having recovered a judgment for $89,000 against
the city of New Orleans in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Louisiana, caused an execution to
issue thereon. The marshal thereupon seized certain real
estate belonging to the city, consisting of "two squares of
ground which had formerly constituted the easterly bank of
the Mississippi River, but which, by the gradual accretion of
said easterly bank, had ceased to constitute the bank of the
river, but which were now used by the public for wharf and
levee purposes, said squares forming a portion of the land known
as the ' Batture property,'" together with certain annual ground
rents therefrom arising and belonging to the city.

